Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
In her younger days Francesca had been known as the beautiful Miss Greech at forty , although much of the original beauty remained , she was just dear Francesca Bassington . 
No one would have dreamed of calling her sweet , but a good many people who scarcely knew her were punctilious about putting in the dear . 
When one's friends and enemies agree on any particular point they are usually wrong . 
Francesca herself , if pressed in an unguarded moment to describe her soul , would probably have described her drawing room . 
Francesca was one of those women towards whom Fate appears to have the best intentions and never to carry them into practice . 
With the advantages put at her disposal she might have been expected to command a more than average share of feminine happiness . 
Francesca loved the smooth ways and pleasant places of life she liked not merely to look on the bright side of things but to live there and stay there . 
And it was her drawing room in particular that enshrined the memorials or tokens of past and present happiness . 
Wherever her eyes might turn she saw the embodied results of her successes , economies , good luck , good management or good taste . 
It fitted exactly into the central wall panel above the narrow buhl cabinet , and filled exactly its right space in the composition and balance of the room . 
From wherever you sat it seemed to confront you as the dominating feature of its surroundings . 
And herein sprouted one of the thorns that obtruded through the rose leaf damask of what might otherwise have been Francesca's peace of mind . 
One's happiness always lies in the future rather than in the past . 
With due deference to an esteemed lyrical authority one may safely say that a sorrow's crown of sorrow is anticipating unhappier things . 
Emmeline was now seventeen and passably good looking , and four or five years were all that could be safely allotted to the span of her continued spinsterhood . 
Beyond that period lay chaos , the wrenching asunder of Francesca from the sheltering habitation that had grown to be her soul . 
It is true that in imagination she had built herself a bridge across the chasm , a bridge of a single span . 
The Van der Meulen would still catch its requisite afternoon light in its place of honour , the Fremiet and the Dresden and Old Worcester would continue undisturbed in their accustomed niches . 
Emmeline could have the Japanese snuggery , where Francesca sometimes drank her after dinner coffee , as a separate drawing room , where she could put her own things . 
The details of the bridge structure had all been carefully thought out . 
Only it was an unfortunate circumstance that Comus should have been the span on which everything balanced . 
Francesca's husband had insisted on giving the boy that strange Pagan name , and had not lived long enough to judge as to the appropriateness , or otherwise , of its significance . 
In seventeen years and some odd months Francesca had had ample opportunity for forming an opinion concerning her son's characteristics . 
In her brother Henry , who sat eating small cress sandwiches as solemnly as though they had been ordained in some immemorial Book of Observances , fate had been undisguisedly kind to her . 
When convenient , moreover , she repaid his loans . 
And they are very many . 
The first thing that we shall have to do is to get out of the dilettante and academic way of approaching it . 
We must collect and assimilate hard facts . 
It is a subject that ought to appeal to all thinking minds , and yet , you know , I find it surprisingly difficult to interest people in it . 
Francesca made some monosyllabic response , a sort of sympathetic grunt which was meant to indicate that she was , to a certain extent , listening and appreciating . 
In reality she was reflecting that Henry possibly found it difficult to interest people in any topic that he enlarged on . 
His talents lay so thoroughly in the direction of being uninteresting , that even as an eye witness of the massacre of St . 
Bartholomew he would probably have infused a flavour of boredom into his descriptions of the event . 
Did you come across any of the Barnets when you were down there ? she interrupted Eliza Barnet is rather taken up with all those subjects . 
In the propagandist movements of Sociology , as in other arenas of life and struggle , the fiercest competition and rivalry is frequently to be found between closely allied types and species . 
I fancy Canon Besomley must have had her in his mind when he said that some people came into the world to shake empires and others to move amendments . 
Francesca laughed with genuine amusement . 
I suppose she is really wonderfully well up in all the subjects she talks about , was her provocative comment . 
Henry grew possibly conscious of the fact that he was being drawn out on the subject of Eliza Barnet , and he presently turned on to a more personal topic . 
From the general air of tranquillity about the house I presume Comus has gone back to Thaleby , he observed . 
Yes , said Francesca , he went back yesterday . 
Of course , I'm very fond of him , but I bear the separation well . 
When he's here it's rather like having a live volcano in the house , a volcano that in its quietest moments asks incessant questions and uses strong scent . 
She was not fond of looking intimately at the future in the presence of another person , especially when the future was draped in doubtfully auspicious colours . 
And then what ? persisted Henry . 
Then I suppose he will be upon my hands . 
Don't sit there looking judicial . 
I'm quite ready to listen to suggestions if you've any to make . 
In the case of any ordinary boy , said Henry , I might make lots of suggestions as to the finding of suitable employment . 
From what we know of Comus it would be rather a waste of time for either of us to look for jobs which he wouldn't look at when we'd got them for him . 
He must do something , said Francesca . 
I know he must but he never will . 
At least , he'll never stick to anything . 
The most hopeful thing to do with him will be to marry him to an heiress . 
That would solve the financial side of his problem . 
If he had unlimited money at his disposal , he might go into the wilds somewhere and shoot big game . 
I never know what the big game have done to deserve it , but they do help to deflect the destructive energies of some of our social misfits . 
Henry , who never killed anything larger or fiercer than a trout , was scornfully superior on the subject of big game shooting . 
Francesca brightened at the matrimonial suggestion . 
I don't know about an heiress , she said reflectively . 
There's Emmeline Chetrof of course . 
One could hardly call her an heiress , but she's got a comfortable little income of her own and I suppose something more will come to her from her grandmother . 
Then , of course , you know this house goes to her when she marries . 
That would be very convenient , said Henry , probably following a line of thought that his sister had trodden many hundreds of times before him . 
Do she and Comus hit it off at all well together ? Oh , well enough in boy and girl fashion , said Francesca . 
I must arrange for them to see more of each other in future . 
By the way , that little brother of hers that she dotes on , Lancelot , goes to Thaleby this term . 
I'll write and tell Comus to be specially kind to him that will be a sure way to Emmeline's heart . 
Comus has been made a prefect , you know . 
It can only be for prominence in games , sniffed Henry I think we may safely leave work and conduct out of the question . 
Comus was not a favourite with his uncle . 
When she had sealed and stamped the envelope Henry uttered a belated caution . 
Perhaps on the whole it would be wiser to say nothing about the boy to Comus . 
He doesn't always respond to directions you know . 
Francesca did know , and already was more than half of her brother's opinion but the woman who can sacrifice a clean unspoiled penny stamp is probably yet unborn . 
Like many boys new to a school he had cultivated an unhealthy passion for obeying rules and requirements , and his zeal in this direction had proved his undoing . 
You'll get six of the very best , over the back of a chair , said one . 
They'll draw a chalk line across you , of course you know , said another . 
A chalk line ? Rather . 
So that every cut can be aimed exactly at the same spot . 
It hurts much more that way . 
Lancelot tried to nourish a wan hope that there might be an element of exaggeration in this uncomfortably realistic description . 
At athletics in general he was a showy performer , and although new to the functions of a prefect he had already established a reputation as an effective and artistic caner . 
In appearance he exactly fitted his fanciful Pagan name . 
The chin was firm , but one looked in vain for a redeeming touch of ill temper in the handsome , half mocking , half petulant face . 
Perhaps no one would have called him a lovable character , but in many respects he was adorable in all respects he was certainly damned . 
It's not really your turn to cane , he said . 
I know it's not , said Comus , fingering a very serviceable looking cane as lovingly as a pious violinist might handle his Strad . 
I gave Greyson some mint chocolate to let me toss whether I caned or him , and I won . 
He was rather decent over it and let me have half the chocolate back . 
The more enlightened and experienced of them realised that he was something outside the scope of the things that they were called upon to deal with . 
Men of more limited outlook and with a correspondingly larger belief in their own powers were ready to tackle the tornado had time permitted . 
I think I could tame young Bassington if I had your opportunities , a form master once remarked to a colleague whose House had the embarrassing distinction of numbering Comus among its inmates . 
Heaven forbid that I should try , replied the housemaster . 
But why ? asked the reformer . 
Because Nature hates any interference with her own arrangements , and if you start in to tame the obviously untameable you are taking a fearful responsibility on yourself . 
Nonsense boys are Nature's raw material . 
But what happens to them when they grow up ? They never do grow up , said the housemaster that is their tragedy . 
Bassington will certainly never grow out of his present stage . 
Now you are talking in the language of Peter Pan , said the form master . 
I am not thinking in the manner of Peter Pan , said the other . 
With all reverence for the author of that masterpiece I should say he had a wonderful and tender insight into the child mind and knew nothing whatever about boys . 
You evidently think that the 'Boy who would not grow up' must have been written by a 'grown up who could never have been a boy . 
Perhaps that is the meaning of the 'Never never Land . 
I daresay you're right in your criticism , but I don't agree with you about Bassington . 
And he went his way , having maintained a form master's inalienable privilege of being in the right . 
In the prefects' room , Comus busied himself with the exact position of a chair planted out in the middle of the floor . 
I think everything's ready , he said . 
Rutley glanced at the clock with the air of a Roman elegant in the Circus , languidly awaiting the introduction of an expected Christian to an expectant tiger . 
The kid is due in two minutes , he said . 
He'd jolly well better not be late , said Comus . 
After all , that was part of the fun of the thing , and most things have their amusing side if one knows where to look for it . 
There was a knock at the door , and Lancelot entered in response to a hearty friendly summons to come in . 
I've come to be caned , he said breathlessly adding by way of identification , my name's Chetrof . 
That's quite bad enough in itself , said Comus , but there is probably worse to follow . 
You are evidently keeping something back from us . 
I missed a footer practice , said Lancelot Six , said Comus briefly , picking up his cane . 
I didn't see the notice on the board , hazarded Lancelot as a forlorn hope . 
We are always pleased to listen to excuses , and our charge is two extra cuts . 
And Comus indicated the chair that stood in sinister isolation in the middle of the room . 
Never had an article of furniture seemed more hateful in Lancelot's eyes . 
Comus could well remember the time when a chair stuck in the middle of a room had seemed to him the most horrible of manufactured things . 
Lend me a piece of chalk , he said to his brother prefect . 
Lancelot ruefully recognised the truth of the chalk line story . 
Comus drew the desired line with an anxious exactitude which he would have scorned to apply to a diagram of Euclid or a map of the Russo Persian frontier . 
Bend a little more forward , he said to the victim , and much tighter . 
Don't trouble to look pleasant , because I can't see your face anyway . 
It may sound unorthodox to say so , but this is going to hurt you much more than it will hurt me . 
There was a carefully measured pause , and then Lancelot was made vividly aware of what a good cane can be made to do in really efficient hands . 
At the second cut he projected himself hurriedly off the chair . 
Now I've lost count , said Comus we shall have to begin all over again . 
Kindly get back into the same position . 
If you get down again before I've finished Rutley will hold you over and you'll get a dozen . 
Lancelot got back on to the chair , and was re arranged to the taste of his executioner . 
He stayed there somehow or other while Comus made eight accurate and agonisingly effective shots at the chalk line . 
As a beginning you can clean out my study this afternoon . 
Be awfully careful how you dust the old china . 
If you break any don't come and tell me but just go and drown yourself somewhere it will save you from a worse fate . 
I don't know where your study is , said Lancelot between his chokes . 
You'd better find it or I shall have to beat you , really hard this time . 
Here , you'd better keep this chalk in your pocket , it's sure to come in handy later on . 
Don't stop to thank me for all I've done , it only embarrasses me . 
As Comus hadn't got a study Lancelot spent a feverish half hour in looking for it , incidentally missing another footer practice . 
Everything is very jolly here , wrote Lancelot to his sister Emmeline . 
The prefects can give you an awful hot time if they like , but most of them are rather decent . 
Bassington is a prefect though only a junior one . 
He is the Limit as Beasts go . 
At least I think so . 
Schoolboy reticence went no further , but Emmeline filled in the gaps for herself with the lavish splendour of feminine imagination . 
Francesca's bridge went crashing into the abyss . 
Parliament had pulled its energies together for an Autumn Session , and both political Parties were fairly well represented in the throng . 
In pursuance of the same instinct she planted the flower borders at her week end cottage retreat in Surrey with a large mixture of bulbs , and called the result a Dutch garden . 
The young woman took advantage of the rhetorical full stop to dash in with the remark which was already marshalled on the tip of her tongue . 
In emancipating the serfs of poverty we must be careful to avoid the mistakes which Russian bureaucracy stumbled into when liberating the serfs of the soil . 
They got off to a good start that time , said Francesca to herself I suppose it's the Prevention of Destitution they're hammering at . 
The object of her faintly signalled displeasure was Courtenay Youghal , a political spur winner who seemed absurdly youthful to a generation that had never heard of Pitt . 
His success was only a half measure . 
The art of public life consists to a great extent of knowing exactly where to stop and going a bit further . 
It was not Youghal's lack of political sagacity that had brought the momentary look of disapproval into Francesca's face . 
To a woman who dressed well on comparatively nothing a year it was an anxious experience to have a son who dressed sumptuously on absolutely nothing . 
Francesca , however , from the moment she had heard of the likelihood of the appointment , had taken a deep and lively interest in Sir Julian . 
Thomas's Hospital whenever she saw him within bowing distance . 
James's to some misty corner of the British dominion overseas . 
The boy had from the first shewn very little gratification at the prospect of his deportation . 
Even the necessity for an entirely new outfit did not appeal to his imagination with the force that might have been expected . 
But , however lukewarm his adhesion to the project might be , Francesca and her brother were clearly determined that no lack of deft persistence on their part should endanger its success . 
She pushed her way back through the throng of starling voiced chatterers fortified by a sense of well earned victory . 
Dear Serena's absurd SALONS served some good purpose after all . 
A heavy margin of blue pencilling drew her attention to a prominently printed letter which bore the ironical heading Julian Jull , Proconsul . 
Comus Bassington stared at her from above a thick layer of blue pencil lines marked by Henry Greech's shaking hand . 
Comus could no more have devised such a letter than he could have written an Episcopal charge to the clergy of any given diocese . 
It was a daring stroke , and there could be no question as to its success the secretaryship and the distant shark girt island faded away into the horizon of impossible things . 
You wicked boy , what have you done ? she cried , reproachfully . 
Me washee , came a cheerful shout me washee from the neck all the way down to the merrythought , and now washee down from the merrythought to You have ruined your future . 
THE TIMES has printed that miserable letter with your signature . 
A loud squeal of joy came from the bath . 
Oh , Mummy ! Let me see ! There were sounds as of a sprawling dripping body clambering hastily out of the bath . 
One cannot effectively scold a moist nineteen year old boy clad only in a bath towel and a cloud of steam . 
Another messenger arrived before Francesca's breakfast was over . 
This one brought a letter from Sir Julian Jull , excusing himself from fulfilment of the luncheon engagement . 
Moderation in numbers was more than counterbalanced in his case by extravagance in characteristics . 
They were doubtless dull as acquaintances , but as sons they would have been eminently restful . 
As far as remunerative achievement was concerned , Comus copied the insouciance of the field lily with a dangerous fidelity . 
The absent may be always wrong , but they are seldom in a position to be inconsiderate . 
If you chose your friends from a rather more reputable set you would be doubtless less amusing , but there would be compensating advantages . 
Francesca snapped the remark out at lunch one day when she had been betrayed into a broader smile than she considered the circumstances of her attitude towards Comus warranted . 
Francesca gave a little gasp of surprise and annoyance . 
You don't mean to say Caroline has asked you to dinner to night ? she said and of course without telling me . 
How exceedingly like her ! Lady Caroline Benaresq had reached that age when you can say and do what you like in defiance of people's most sensitive feelings and most cherished antipathies . 
Lady Caroline's favourite scheme of entertaining was to bring jarring and antagonistic elements into close contact and play them remorselessly one against the other . 
One gets much better results under those circumstances she used to observe , than by asking people who wish to meet each other . 
Few people talk as brilliantly to impress a friend as they do to depress an enemy . 
She admitted that her theory broke down rather badly if you applied it to Parliamentary debates . 
At her own dinner table its success was usually triumphantly vindicated . 
Who else is to be there ? Francesca asked , with some pardonable misgiving . 
He'll probably sit next to you , so you'd better think out a lot of annihilating remarks in readiness . 
I don't think I've heard of her . 
Who is she ? Nobody in particular , but rather nice looking in a solemn sort of way , and almost indecently rich . 
Caroline has probably marked her down for Toby or one of the grand nephews , she said , carelessly a little money would be rather useful in that quarter , I imagine . 
Comus tucked in his underlip with just the shade of pugnacity that she wanted to see . 
Anyhow , the dinner promised to be more interesting than she had originally anticipated . 
She did not permit her Socialism , however , to penetrate below stairs her cook and butler had every encouragement to be Individualists . 
Courtenay Youghal , for instance , would probably be brilliantly silent her brother Henry would almost certainly be the reverse . 
She was pretty in a restrained nut brown fashion , and had a look of grave reflective calm that probably masked a speculative unsettled temperament . 
Her pose , if one wished to be critical , was just a little too elaborately careless . 
She wore some excellently set rubies with that indefinable air of having more at home that is so difficult to improvise . 
Francesca was distinctly pleased with her survey . 
You seem interested in your VIS A VIS , said Courtenay Youghal . 
I almost think I've seen her before , said Francesca her face seems familiar to me . 
The narrow gallery at the Louvre attributed to Leonardo da Vinci , said Youghal . 
Of course , said Francesca , her feelings divided between satisfaction at capturing an elusive impression and annoyance that Youghal should have been her helper . 
A stronger tinge of annoyance possessed her when she heard the voice of Henry Greech raised in painful prominence at Lady Caroline's end of the table . 
I called on the Trudhams yesterday , he announced it was their Silver Wedding , you know , at least the day before was . 
Such lots of silver presents , quite a show . 
Of course there were a great many duplicates , but still , very nice to have . 
I think they were very pleased to get so many . 
We must not grudge them their show of presents after their twenty five years of married life , said Lady Caroline , gently it is the silver lining to their cloud . 
A third of the guests present were related to the Trudhams . 
Lady Caroline is beginning well , murmured Courtenay Youghal . 
I should hardly call twenty five years of married life a cloud , said Henry Greech , lamely . 
My public expects it of me . 
I do so envy journalists who can write about plagues and strikes and Anarchist plots , and other pleasing things , instead of being tied down to one stale old topic . 
Who is that woman and what has she written ? Francesca asked Youghal she dimly remembered having seen her at one of Serena Golackly's gatherings , surrounded by a little Court of admirers . 
I forget her name she has a villa at San Remo or Mentone , or somewhere where one does have villas , and plays an extraordinary good game of bridge . 
Also she has the reputation , rather rare in your sex , of being a wonderfully sound judge of wine . 
But what has she written ? Oh , several novels of the thinnish ice order . 
Her last one , 'The Woman who wished it was Wednesday , has been banned at all the libraries . 
I expect you've read it . 
I don't see why you should think so , said Francesca , coldly . 
Only because Comus lent me your copy yesterday , said Youghal . 
He threw back his handsome head and gave her a sidelong glance of quizzical amusement . 
He knew that she hated his intimacy with Comus , and he was secretly rather proud of his influence over the boy , shallow and negative though he knew it to be . 
It had been , on his part , an unsought intimacy , and it would probably fall to pieces the moment he tried seriously to take up the ROLE of mentor . 
The fact that Comus's mother openly disapproved of the friendship gave it perhaps its chief interest in the young politician's eyes . 
Francesca turned her attention to her brother's end of the table . 
Henry Greech had willingly availed himself of the invitation to leave the subject of married life , and had launched forthwith into the equally well worn theme of current politics . 
Hence he was prone to unburden himself of accumulated political wisdom as occasion presented itself sometimes , indeed , to assume an occasion that was hardly visible to the naked intelligence . 
Henry Greech hastily abandoned simile and fell back on platitude and the safer kinds of fact . 
Francesca did not regard her brother's views on statecraft either in the light of gospel or revelation as Comus once remarked , they more usually suggested exodus . 
Once or twice the eyes of the young people met and a swift flush of pleasure and a half smile that spoke of good understanding came to the heiress's face . 
Francesca's speculations took a more personal turn . 
A woman's voice , talking in a discreet undertone on the other side of Courtenay Youghal , broke in on her bridge building . 
Tons of money and really very presentable . 
Just the wife for a rising young politician . 
Go in and win her before she's snapped up by some fortune hunter . 
Youghal and his instructress in worldly wisdom were looking straight across the table at the Leonardo da Vinci girl with the grave reflective eyes and the over emphasised air of repose . 
Francesca laughed bitterly to herself as she remembered that a few hours ago she had entertained the idea of begging for his good offices in helping on Comus's wooing . 
But they were obviously already very good friends . 
Lady Caroline's voice broke in on her reflections it was a gentle purring voice , that possessed an uncanny quality of being able to make itself heard down the longest dinner table . 
The dear Archdeacon is getting so absent minded . 
He read a list of box holders for the opera as the First Lesson the other Sunday , instead of the families and lots of the tribes of Israel that entered Canaan . 
Fortunately no one noticed the mistake . 
Molly McQuade was known to her neighbours in a minor hunting shire as a hard riding conventionally unconventional type of young woman , who came naturally into the classification , a good sort . 
Most men liked her , and the percentage of women who disliked her was not inconveniently high . 
The romantic side of her nature was altogether unguessed by the country side . 
Her romances were mostly in serial form and suffered perhaps in fervour from their disconnected course what they gained in length of days . 
If her married life were eventually to turn out a failure , at least she looked forward to it with very moderate expectations . 
Her love affairs she put on a very different footing and apparently they were the all absorbing element in her life . 
She possessed the happily constituted temperament which enables a man or woman to be a pluralist , and to observe the sage precaution of not putting all one's eggs into one basket . 
Courtenay Youghal had not been designed by Nature to fulfil the ROLE of an ardent or devoted lover , and he scrupulously respected the limits which Nature had laid down . 
For Molly , however , he had a certain responsive affection . 
When the time for gathering ye rosebuds should be over , neither of them could accuse the other of having wrecked his or her entire life . 
At the most they would only have disorganised a week end . 
On this particular afternoon , when old reminiscences had been gone through , and the intervening gossip of past months duly recounted , a lull in the conversation made itself rather obstinately felt . 
I'm coming to the front , admitted Youghal , judicially the problem is , shall I be able to stay there . 
Unless something happens in the financial line before long , I don't see how I'm to stay in Parliament at all . 
Economy is out of the question . 
It would open people's eyes , I fancy , if they knew how little I exist on as it is . 
And I'm living so far beyond my income that we may almost be said to be living apart . 
It will have to be a rich wife , I suppose , said Molly , slowly that's the worst of success , it imposes so many conditions . 
I rather knew , from something in your manner , that you were drifting that way . 
Youghal said nothing in the way of contradiction he gazed steadfastly at the aviary in front of him as though exotic pheasants were for the moment the most absorbing study in the world . 
As a matter of fact , his mind was centred on the image of Elaine de Frey , with her clear untroubled eyes and her Leonardo da Vinci air . 
He was wondering whether he was likely to fall into a frame of mind concerning her which would be in the least like falling in love . 
When a man goes into politics he can't call his soul his own , and I suppose his heart becomes an impersonal possession in the same way . 
Most people who know me would tell you that I haven't got a heart , said Youghal . 
I've often felt inclined to agree with them , said Molly and then , now and again , I think you have a heart tucked away somewhere . 
I hope I have , said Youghal , because I'm trying to break to you the fact that I think I'm falling in love with somebody . 
Molly McQuade turned sharply to look at her companion , who still fixed his gaze on the pheasant run in front of him . 
Don't tell me you're losing your head over somebody useless , someone without money , she said I don't think I could stand that . 
She's got heaps of money . 
Molly gave a grunt of relief . 
Her affection for Courtenay had produced the anxiety which underlay her first question a natural jealousy prompted the next one . 
Young and quite good looking in her way , and a distinct style of her own . 
Some people would call her beautiful . 
As a political hostess I should think she'd be splendid . 
I imagine I'm rather in love with her . 
And is she in love with you ? Youghal threw back his head with the slight assertive movement that Molly knew and liked . 
She's a girl who I fancy would let judgment influence her a lot . 
And without being stupidly conceited , I think I may say she might do worse than throw herself away on me . 
I can be brilliantly amusing at times , and I understand the value of silence there is no fear that I shall ever degenerate into that fearsome thing a cheerful talkative husband . 
For a girl with money and social ambitions I should think I was rather a good thing . 
You are certainly in love , Courtenay , said Molly , but it's the old love and not a new one . 
I should have hated to have you head over heels in love with a pretty woman , even for a short time . 
You'll be much happier as it is . 
And I'm going to put all my feelings in the background , and tell you to go in and win . 
You've got to marry a rich woman , and if she's nice and will make a good hostess , so much the better for everybody . 
You'll be happier in your married life than I shall be in mine , when it comes you'll have other interests to absorb you . 
I shall just have the garden and dairy and nursery and lending library , as like as two peas to all the gardens and dairies and nurseries for hundreds of miles round . 
I shouldn't wonder if you were quite happy . 
She will probably be miserable , but any woman who married you would be . 
There was a short pause they were both staring at the pheasant cages . 
Then Molly spoke again , with the swift nervous tone of a general who is hurriedly altering the disposition of his forces for a strategic retreat . 
Will you ? It won't be quite the same as old times , but it will be something to look forward to when I'm reading the endless paragraphs about your fashionable political wedding . 
Anyhow , the present is still with us . 
We dine at Kettner's to night , don't we ? Rather , said Molly , though it will be more or less a throat lumpy feast as far as I am concerned . 
We shall have to drink to the health of the future Mrs. Youghal . 
By the way , it's rather characteristic of you that you haven't told me who she is , and of me that I haven't asked . 
And now , like a dear boy , trot away and leave me . 
I haven't got to say good bye to you yet , but I'm going to take a quiet farewell of the Pheasantry . 
Eight o'clock to night , as punctually as possible . 
She watched his retreating figure with eyes that grew slowly misty he had been such a jolly comely boy friend , and they had had such good times together . 
For the moment she felt herself in the thrall of a very real sorrow . 
Then , with the admirable energy of one who is only in town for a fleeting fortnight , she raced away to have tea with a world faring naval admirer at his club . 
Pluralism is a merciful narcotic . 
The shallow stone basin of an old fountain , on whose wide ledge a leaden moulded otter for ever preyed on a leaden salmon , filled a conspicuous place in the immediate foreground . 
Elaine liked to imagine that they re embodied the souls of unhappy boys who had been forced by family interests to become high ecclesiastical dignitaries and had grown prematurely Right Reverend . 
A low stone balustrade fenced part of the shore of the lake , making a miniature terrace above its level , and here roses grew in a rich multitude . 
It was a garden where summer seemed a part proprietor rather than a hurried visitor . 
By the side of Elaine's chair under the shadow of the cedars a wicker table was set out with the paraphernalia of afternoon tea . 
The intimacy existing between the two young men had suffered no immediate dislocation from the circumstance that they were tacitly paying court to the same lady . 
There was something peculiarly exasperating in reading a brilliant and incisive attack on the Government's rash handling of public expenditure delivered by a young man who encouraged her son in every imaginable extravagance . 
Francesca , however , exercised a mother's privilege in assuming her son's bachelor associates to be industrious in labouring to achieve his undoing . 
Happiness was not , however , at this auspicious moment , her dominant mood . 
The grave calm of her face masked as usual a certain degree of grave perturbation . 
The knowledge that there was so much in the world that she could buy , invited speculation as to how much there was that was worth buying . 
In her schoolroom days she had sat in conscientious judgment on the motives that guided or misguided Charles and Cromwell and Monck , Wallenstein and Savonarola . 
And herein lay cause for much thinking and some perturbation . 
Youghal , for example , might have baffled a more experienced observer of human nature . 
Elaine was too clever to confound his dandyism with foppishness or self advertisement . 
The young man added to her perplexities by his deliberate policy of never trying to show himself in a favourable light even when most anxious to impart a favourable impression . 
As a ruler he would have been reasonably popular as a husband he would probably be unendurable . 
Comus was to a certain extent as great a mystification as Youghal , but here Elaine was herself responsible for some of the perplexity which enshrouded his character in her eyes . 
What she tried to label honesty in his candour was probably only a cynical defiance of the laws of right and wrong . 
You look more than usually thoughtful this afternoon , said Comus to her , as if you had invented this summer day and were trying to think out improvements . 
If I had the power to create improvements anywhere I think I should begin with you , retorted Elaine . 
So patronising and irritating to the Almighty I should think , to go about putting superior finishing touches to Creation . 
Elaine frowned , and then laughed , and finally gave a little sigh . 
It's not easy to talk sense to you , she said . 
Whatever else you take in hand , said Youghal , you must never improve this garden . 
It's what our idea of Heaven might be like if the Jews hadn't invented one for us on totally different lines . 
It's dreadful that we should accept them as the impresarios of our religious dreamland instead of the Greeks . 
You are not very fond of the Jews , said Elaine . 
I've travelled and lived a good deal in Eastern Europe , said Youghal . 
It seems largely a question of geography , said Elaine in England no one really is anti Semitic . 
I know a great many Jews who are . 
Servants had quietly , almost reverently , placed tea and its accessories on the wicker table , and quietly receded from the landscape . 
Elaine sat like a grave young goddess about to dispense some mysterious potion to her devotees . 
Her mind was still sitting in judgment on the Jewish question . 
Comus scrambled to his feet . 
It's too hot for tea , he said I shall go and feed the swans . 
And he walked off with a little silver basket dish containing brown bread and butter . 
It's so like Comus , she said , to go off with our one dish of bread and butter . 
It was an undoubted opportunity for him to put in some disparaging criticism of Comus , and Elaine sat alert in readiness to judge the critic and reserve judgment on the criticised . 
His selfishness is splendid but absolutely futile , said Youghal now my selfishness is commonplace , but always thoroughly practical and calculated . 
He will have great difficulty in getting the swans to accept his offering , and he incurs the odium of reducing us to a bread and butterless condition . 
Incidentally he will get very hot . 
Elaine again had the sense of being thoroughly baffled . 
If Youghal had said anything unkind it was about himself . 
In fact I don't really know why we took our loss so unprotestingly . 
For two reasons , said Youghal you are rather fond of Comus . 
And I am not very fond of bread and butter . 
The jesting remark brought a throb of pleasure to Elaine's heart . 
The warm sunlit garden grew suddenly into a Heaven that held the secret of eternal happiness . 
Elaine drank her tea in a happy silence besides being a brilliant talker Youghal understood the rarer art of being a non talker on occasion . 
Comus came back across the grass swinging the empty basket dish in his hand . 
Swans were very pleased , he cried , gaily , and said they hoped I would keep the bread and butter dish as a souvenir of a happy tea party . 
I may really have it , mayn't I ? he continued in an anxious voice it will do to keep studs and things in . 
It's got the family crest on it , said Elaine . 
Some of the happiness had died out of her eyes . 
I'll have that scratched off and my own put on , said Comus . 
It's been in the family for generations , protested Elaine , who did not share Comus's view that because you were rich your lesser possessions could have no value in your eyes . 
I want it dreadfully , said Comus , sulkily , and you've heaps of other things to put bread and butter in . 
And somehow her chief anxiety at the moment was to keep Courtenay Youghal from seeing that she was angry . 
I know you don't really want it , so I'm going to keep it , persisted Comus . 
It's too hot to argue , said Elaine . 
Happy mistress of your destinies , laughed Youghal you can suit your disputations to the desired time and temperature . 
I have to go and argue , or what is worse , listen to other people's arguments , in a hot and doctored atmosphere suitable to an invalid lizard . 
You haven't got to argue about a bread and butter dish , said Elaine . 
Chiefly about bread and butter , said Youghal our great preoccupation is other people's bread and butter . 
That is what is called legislation . 
If we could only make rules as to how the bread and butter should be digested we should be quite happy . 
Elaine had been brought up to regard Parliaments as something to be treated with cheerful solemnity , like illness or family re unions . 
Youghal's flippant disparagement of the career in which he was involved did not , however , jar on her susceptibilities . 
She knew him to be not only a lively and effective debater but an industrious worker on committees . 
If he made light of his labours , at least he afforded no one else a loophole for doing so . 
And certainly , the Parliamentary atmosphere was not inviting on this hot afternoon . 
When must you go ? she asked , sympathetically . 
Youghal looked ruefully at his watch . 
Before he could answer , a cheerful hoot came through the air , as of an owl joyously challenging the sunlight with a foreboding of the coming night . 
He sprang laughing to his feet . 
Listen ! My summons back to my galley , he cried . 
The Gods have given me an hour in this enchanted garden , so I must not complain . 
It was the one little intimate touch that gave Elaine the knowledge that he cared for her opinion of his work . 
Comus , who had emptied his cigarette case , became suddenly clamorous at the prospect of being temporarily stranded without a smoke . 
Youghal took the last remaining cigarette from his own case and gravely bisected it . 
Friendship could go no further , he observed , as he gave one half to the doubtfully appeased Comus , and lit the other himself . 
There are heaps more in the hall , said Elaine . 
It was only done for the Saint Martin of Tours effect , said Youghal I hate smoking when I'm rushing through the air . 
The departing galley slave stepped forth into the sunlight , radiant and confident . 
A few minutes later Elaine could see glimpses of his white car as it rushed past the rhododendron bushes . 
He woos best who leaves first , particularly if he goes forth to battle or the semblance of battle . 
Somehow Elaine's garden of Eternal Youth had already become clouded in its imagery . 
The girl figure who walked in it was still distinctly and unchangingly herself , but her companion was more blurred and undefined , as a picture that has been superimposed on another . 
Youghal sped townward well satisfied with himself . 
To morrow , he reflected , Elaine would read his speech in her morning paper , and he knew in advance that it was not going to be one of his worst efforts . 
CHAPTER VII TOWARDS four o'clock on a hot afternoon Francesca stepped out from a shop entrance near the Piccadilly end of Bond Street and ran almost into the arms of Merla Blathlington . 
The afternoon seemed to get instantly hotter . 
Merla was one of those human flies that buzz in crowded streets , at bazaars and in warm weather , she attained to the proportions of a human bluebottle . 
Here we are , she cried , with a glad eager buzz , popping in and out of shops like rabbits not that rabbits do pop in and out of shops very extensively . 
It was evidently one of her bluebottle days . 
Don't you love Bond Street ? she gabbled on . 
There's something so unusual and distinctive about it no other street anywhere else is quite like it . 
Don't you know those ikons and images and things scattered up and down Europe , that are supposed to have been painted or carved , as the case may be , by St . 
Luke or Zaccheus , or somebody of that sort I always like to think that some notable person of those times designed Bond Street . 
He travelled about a lot . 
Not in Middlesex , though , said Francesca . 
One can't be sure , persisted Merla when one wanders about as much as he did one gets mixed up and forgets where one HAS been . 
I can never remember whether I've been to the Tyrol twice and St . 
Moritz once , or the other way about I always have to ask my maid . 
And there's something about the name Bond that suggests St . 
Paul didn't he write a lot about the bond and the free ? I fancy he wrote in Hebrew or Greek , objected Francesca the word wouldn't have the least resemblance . 
So dreadfully non committal to go about pamphleteering in those bizarre languages , complained Merla that's what makes all those people so elusive . 
As soon as you try to pin them down to a definite statement about anything you're told that some vitally important word has fifteen other meanings in the original . 
I wonder our Cabinet Ministers and politicians don't adopt a sort of dog Latin or Esperanto jargon to deliver their speeches in what a lot of subsequent explaining away would be saved . 
But to go back to Bond Street not that we've left it I'm afraid I must leave it now , said Francesca , preparing to turn up Grafton Street Good bye . 
Must you be going ? Come and have tea somewhere . 
I know of a cosy little place where one can talk undisturbed . 
Francesca repressed a shudder and pleaded an urgent engagement . 
I know where you're going , said Merla , with the resentful buzz of a bluebottle that finds itself thwarted by the cold unreasoning resistance of a windowpane . 
You're going to play bridge at Serena Golackly's . 
She never asks me to her bridge parties . 
Francesca shuddered openly this time the prospect of having to play bridge anywhere in the near neighbourhood of Merla's voice was not one that could be contemplated with ordinary calmness . 
Good bye , she said again firmly , and passed out of earshot it was rather like leaving the machinery section of an exhibition . 
Merla's diagnosis of her destination had been a correct one Francesca made her way slowly through the hot streets in the direction of Serena Golackly's house on the far side of Berkeley Square . 
To the blessed certainty of finding a game of bridge , she hopefully added the possibility of hearing some fragments of news which might prove interesting and enlightening . 
And of enlightenment on a particular subject , in which she was acutely and personally interested , she stood in some need . 
Beyond this meagre and conflicting and altogether tantalising information , her knowledge of the present position of affairs did not go . 
The afternoon was too warm to make bridge a generally popular diversion , and Serena's party was a comparatively small one . 
Ada Spelvexit was one of those naturally stagnant souls who take infinite pleasure in what are called movements . 
Most of the really great lessons I have learned have been taught me by the Poor , was one of her favourite statements . 
Hostesses regarded her philosophically as a form of social measles which everyone had to have once . 
The third prospective player , Francesca noted without any special enthusiasm , was Lady Caroline Benaresq . 
A domineering player usually inflicts the chief damage and demoralisation on his partner Lady Caroline's special achievement was to harass and demoralise partner and opponents alike . 
Weak and weak , she announced in her gentle voice , as she cut her hostess for a partner I suppose we had better play only five shillings a hundred . 
Francesca wondered at the old woman's moderate assessment of the stake , knowing her fondness for highish play and her usual good luck in card holding . 
She was not as a rule a successful player , and money lost at cards was always a poignant bereavement to her . 
It proved a tiresome ding dong rubber , with the strength of the cards slightly on Francesca's side , and the luck of the table going mostly the other way . 
The little accumulations of talk that were unpent during the dealing of the hands became as noteworthy to her alert attention as the play of the hands themselves . 
Canon Besomley was here just before you came you know , the big preaching man . 
I've been to hear him scold the human race once or twice , said Francesca . 
A strong man with a wonderfully strong message , said Ada Spelvexit , in an impressive and assertive tone . 
The sort of popular pulpiteer who spanks the vices of his age and lunches with them afterwards , said Lady Caroline . 
Hardly a fair summary of the man and his work , protested Ada . 
Diamonds , pronounced Ada , after a rather flurried survey of her hand . 
Doubled , said Lady Caroline , with increased gentleness , and a few minutes later she was pencilling an addition of twenty four to her score . 
Real country scenery apple blossom everywhere . 
Surely only on the apple trees , said Lady Caroline . 
I can generally manage to attend to more than one thing at a time , said Serena , rashly I think I must have a sort of double brain . 
Much better to economise and have one really good one , observed Lady Caroline . 
LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI scoring a verbal trick or two as usual , said a player at another table in a discreet undertone . 
Poor dear , good Sir Edward . 
What have you made trumps ? asked Lady Caroline , in one breath . 
He amuses me so much , purred Lady Caroline . 
Her amusement was usually of the sort that a sporting cat derives from watching the Swedish exercises of a well spent and carefully thought out mouse . 
Really ? He has been rather a brilliant success at the Foreign Office , you know , said Francesca . 
How can you say such things ? protested Francesca . 
I can't , said Lady Caroline Courtenay Youghal said it in the House last night . 
Didn't you read the debate ? He was really rather in form . 
Most politicians are something or other at heart , but no one would be rash enough to insure a politician against heart failure . 
Particularly when he happens to be in office . 
Anyhow , I don't see that the Opposition leaders would have acted any differently in the present case , said Francesca . 
One should always speak guardedly of the Opposition leaders , said Lady Caroline , in her gentlest voice one never knows what a turn in the situation may do for them . 
You mean they may one day be at the head of affairs ? asked Serena , briskly . 
I mean they may one day lead the Opposition . 
Lady Caroline had just remembered that her hostess was on the Opposition side in politics . 
Francesca and her partner scored four tricks in clubs the game stood irresolutely at twenty four all . 
Mr. Youghal seems pushing himself to the fore of late , remarked Francesca , as Serena took up the cards to deal . 
Since the young politician's name had been introduced into their conversation the opportunity for turning the talk more directly on him and his affairs was too good to be missed . 
I think he's got a career before him , said Serena the House always fills when he's speaking , and that's a good sign . 
And then he's young and got rather an attractive personality , which is always something in the political world . 
Yes , the House of Commons still remains rather at the opposite pole to the Kingdom of Heaven as regards entrance qualifications , observed Lady Caroline . 
There ought to be no difficulty about Youghal picking up a girl with money , said Serena with his prospects he would make an excellent husband for any woman with social ambitions . 
And she half sighed , as though she almost regretted that a previous matrimonial arrangement precluded her from entering into the competition on her own account . 
Francesca , under an assumption of languid interest , was watching Lady Caroline narrowly for some hint of suppressed knowledge of Youghal's courtship of Miss de Frey . 
Whom are you marrying and giving in marriage ? The question came from George St . 
Michael , who had strayed over from a neighbouring table , attracted by the fragments of small talk that had reached his ears . 
Michael was one of those dapper bird like illusorily active men , who seem to have been in a certain stage of middle age for as long as human memory can recall them . 
A close cut peaked beard lent a certain dignity to his appearance a loan which the rest of his features and mannerisms were continually and successfully repudiating . 
The MORNING POST might content itself with the mere statement of the arrangement which would shortly take place , but it was St . 
, to all whom it might interest and to many whom it might not . 
Beyond his industriously earned pre eminence in this special branch of intelligence , he was chiefly noteworthy for having a wife reputed to be the tallest and thinnest woman in the Home Counties . 
The two were sometimes seen together in Society , where they passed under the collective name of St . 
We are trying to find a rich wife for Courtenay Youghal , said Serena , in answer to St . 
I think the young gentleman has been before you and already found himself a rich mate in prospect . 
Do you mean ? began Serena . 
Miss de Frey , broke in St . 
Twenty four thousand a year , with prospects of more to come , and a charming place of her own not too far from town . 
Quite the type of girl , too , who will make a good political hostess , brains without being brainy , you know . 
Michael fled headlong back to his own table . 
Oh , is it me ? I beg your pardon . 
I leave it , said Serena . 
No trumps , declared Lady Caroline . 
The hand was successful , and the rubber ultimately fell to her with a comfortable margin of honours . 
Francesca was conscious that a certain amount of rather erratic play on her part had at least contributed to the result . 
Michael's incursion into the conversation had proved rather a powerful distraction to her ordinarily sound bridge craft . 
Ada Spelvexit emptied her purse of several gold pieces and infused a corresponding degree of superiority into her manner . 
I must be going now , she announced I'm dining early . 
I have to give an address to some charwomen afterwards . 
Why ? asked Lady Caroline , with a disconcerting directness that was one of her most formidable characteristics . 
Oh , well , I have some things to say to them that I daresay they will like to hear , said Ada , with a thin laugh . 
Her statement was received with a silence that betokened profound unbelief in any such probability . 
I go about a good deal among working class women , she added . 
No one has ever said it , observed Lady Caroline , but how painfully true it is that the poor have us always with them . 
Ada Spelvexit hastened her departure the marred impressiveness of her retreat came as a culminating discomfiture on the top of her ill fortune at the card table . 
Possibly , however , the multiplication of her own annoyances enabled her to survey charwomen's troubles with increased cheerfulness . 
None of them , at any rate , had spent an afternoon with Lady Caroline . 
Francesca cut in at another table and with better fortune attending on her , succeeded in winning back most of her losses . 
A sense of satisfaction was distinctly dominant as she took leave of her hostess . 
Michael so loved to supply , she had come to the conclusion that it was merely a piece of intelligent guesswork . 
And if Lady Caroline had really believed in the story of Elaine de Frey's virtual engagement to Courtenay Youghal she would have taken a malicious pleasure in encouraging St . 
Michael in his confidences , and in watching Francesca's discomfiture under the recital . 
And in this particular case Lady Caroline's information was likely to be nearer the truth than St . 
Francesca always gave a penny to the first crossing sweeper or match seller she chanced across after a successful sitting at bridge . 
Also it was an afternoon that invited bodily activity after the convalescent languor of the earlier part of the day . 
She was due some time that afternoon at a garden party , but she rode with determination in an opposite direction . 
Her appeal court was in permanent session these last few days , but it gave no decisions , at least none that she would listen to . 
And the ride on her fast light stepping little mare , alone and unattended , through the fresh smelling leafy lanes into unexplored country , seemed just what she wanted at the moment . 
She might have paraphrased the mental attitude of the immortalised Peter Bell into A basket underneath a tree A yellow tiger is to me , If it is nothing more . 
The more really alarming episodes of the road , the hoot and whir of a passing motor car or the loud vibrating hum of a wayside threshing machine , were treated with indifference . 
It was an unlooked for and distinctly unwelcome encounter . 
As Elaine pushed her way through she became aware of a man standing just inside the lane , who made a movement forward to open the gate for her . 
Fancy meeting you in this way . 
It seemed to be the grown up realisation of the games played in dark rooms in winter fire lit evenings , and the dreams dreamed over favourite books of adventure . 
And now the chance meeting with the caravan had flung her across the threshold of his retreat . 
The farmhouse had that intensely English look that one seldom sees out of Normandy . 
Elaine dismounted , and Keriway led the mare round to a little paddock by the side of a great grey barn . 
Then he called to a boy who was busy with a hoe among some defiantly prosperous weeds , to fetch the lady a glass of milk and a piece of currant loaf . 
Charming , certainly , said Keriway , but too full of the stress of its own little life struggle to be peaceful . 
Here one sees it reproduced under one's eyes , like a musty page of black letter come to life . 
Look at one little section of it , the poultry life on the farm . 
And the stoat , a creeping slip of brown fur a few inches long , intently and unstayably out for blood . 
One felt that a countryside in arms would not get that hen away from the bad fox . 
I have seen blood spillings and down crushings and abject defeat here and there in my time , but the red hen has remained in my mind as the type of helpless tragedy . 
He was silent for a moment as if he were again musing over the three letter drama that had so dwelt in his childhood's imagination . 
Tell me some of the things you have seen in your time , was the request that was nearly on Elaine's lips , but she hastily checked herself and substituted another . 
Tell me more about the farm , please . 
It seemed to Elaine as if a musty store of old world children's books had been fetched down from some cobwebbed lumber room and brought to life . 
And Elaine , who held so many desirable things in the hollow of her hand , could not make up her mind to be even moderately happy . 
Elaine divested her habit of some remaining crumbs of bun loaf and jumped lightly on to her saddle . 
You are a person to be envied , she said to Keriway you have created a fairyland , and you are living in it yourself . 
Envied ? He shot the question out with sudden bitterness . 
She looked down and saw the wistful misery that had come into his face . 
Once , he said to her , in a German paper I read a short story about a tame crippled crane that lived in the park of some small town . 
I forget what happened in the story , but there was one line that I shall always remember 'it was lame , that is why it was tame . 
He had created a fairyland , but assuredly he was not living in it . 
The children , handled or in perambulators , might be excused from instinct or motive they were brought . 
Pleasingly conspicuous among a bunch of indifferent riders pacing along by the rails where the onlookers were thickest was Courtenay Youghal , on his handsome plum roan gelding Anne de Joyeuse . 
Youghal evidently believed in thorough accord between horse and rider . 
Please stop and talk to me , said a quiet beckoning voice from the other side of the rails , and Youghal drew rein and greeted Lady Veula Croot . 
Lady Veula had married into a family of commercial solidity and enterprising political nonentity . 
She had a devoted husband , some blonde teachable children , and a look of unutterable weariness in her eyes . 
To see her standing at the top of an expensively horticultured staircase receiving her husband's guests was rather like watching an animal performing on a music hall stage . 
One always tells oneself that the animal likes it , and one always knows that it doesn't . 
Lady Veula is an ardent Free Trader , isn't she ? someone once remarked to Lady Caroline . 
Lady Veula looked at Youghal and his mount with slow critical appraisement , and there was a note of blended raillery and wistfulness in her voice . 
You two dear things , I should love to stroke you both , but I'm not sure how Joyeuse would take it . 
So I'll stroke you down verbally instead . 
I admired your attack on Sir Edward immensely , though of course I don't agree with a word of it . 
Your description of him building a hedge round the German cuckoo and hoping he was isolating it was rather sweet . 
Seriously though , I regard him as one of the pillars of the Administration . 
So do I , said Youghal the misfortune is that he is merely propping up a canvas roof . 
It's just his regrettable solidity and integrity that makes him so expensively dangerous . 
My Party is in power so I may exercise the privilege of being optimistic . 
He's been to one or two of my dances . 
Andrei Drakoloff , said Youghal he's just produced a play that has had a big success in Moscow and is certain to be extremely popular all over Russia . 
In the first three acts the heroine is supposed to be dying of consumption in the last act they find she is really dying of cancer . 
Are the Russians really such a gloomy people ? Gloom loving but not in the least gloomy . 
They merely take their sadness pleasurably , just as we are accused of taking our pleasures sadly . 
Have you noticed that dreadful Klopstock youth has been pounding past us at shortening intervals . 
He'll come up and talk if he half catches your eye . 
I only just know him . 
Isn't he at an agricultural college or something of the sort ? Yes , studying to be a gentleman farmer , he told me . 
I didn't ask if both subjects were compulsory . 
You're really rather dreadful , said Lady Veula , trying to look as if she thought so remember , we are all equal in the sight of Heaven . 
For a preacher of wholesome truths her voice rather lacked conviction . 
If I and Ernest Klopstock are really equal in the sight of Heaven , said Youghal , with intense complacency , I should recommend Heaven to consult an eye specialist . 
There was a heavy spattering of loose earth , and a squelching of saddle leather , as the Klopstock youth lumbered up to the rails and delivered himself of loud , cheerful greetings . 
Joyeuse laid his ears well back as the ungainly bay cob and his appropriately matched rider drew up beside him his verdict was reflected and endorsed by the cold stare of Youghal's eyes . 
And he laughed as one who had deserved well and received well of Fate . 
The charm of that story , said Youghal , is that it can be told in any drawing room . 
And with a sweep of his wide brimmed hat to Lady Veula he turned the impatient Joyeuse into the moving stream of horse and horsemen . 
Ah , I have it . 
And having satisfactorily fitted Lady Veula on to a quotation he dismissed her from his mind . 
With the constancy of her sex she thought about him , his good looks and his youth and his railing tongue , till late in the afternoon . 
While Youghal was putting Joyeuse through his paces under the elm trees of the Row a little drama in which he was directly interested was being played out not many hundred yards away . 
Elaine was rather quieter than usual , and the grave serenity of the Leonardo da Vinci portrait seemed intensified in her face this morning . 
And the more that she felt that she liked him the more she was irritated by his lack of consideration for her . 
Without expecting that her every wish should become a law to him she would at least have liked it to reach the formality of a Second Reading . 
Comus , marching carelessly through unknown country to effect what seemed already an assured victory , made the mistake of disregarding the existence of an unbeaten army on his flank . 
To day Elaine felt that , without having actually quarrelled , she and Comus had drifted a little bit out of sympathy with one another . 
The fault she knew was scarcely hers , in fact from the most good natured point of view it could hardly be denied that it was almost entirely his . 
The incident of the silver dish had lacked even the attraction of novelty it had been one of a series , all bearing a strong connecting likeness . 
It was almost worth while being angry with Comus for the sake of experiencing the pleasure of being coaxed into friendliness again with the charm which he knew so well how to exert . 
Most of the pleasures in life must be paid for , and the chair ticket vendor in due time made his appearance in quest of pennies . 
Comus paid him from out of a varied assortment of coins and then balanced the remainder in the palm of his hand . 
Elaine felt a sudden foreknowledge of something disagreeable about to happen and a red spot deepened in her cheeks . 
Four shillings and fivepence and a half penny , said Comus , reflectively . 
It's a ridiculous sum to last me for the next three days , and I owe a card debt of over two pounds . 
Yes ? commented Elaine dryly and with an apparent lack of interest in his exchequer statement . 
Surely , she was thinking hurriedly to herself , he could not be foolish enough to broach the matter of another loan . 
The card debt is rather a nuisance , pursued Comus , with fatalistic persistency . 
If I can pay the two pounds to day I daresay I shall win something more to go on with I'm holding rather good cards just now . 
But if I can't pay it of course I shan't show up at the club . 
So you see the fix I am in . 
Elaine took no notice of this indirect application . 
The Appeal Court was assembling in haste to consider new evidence , and this time there was the rapidity of sudden determination about its movement . 
The conversation strayed away from the fateful topic for a few moments and then Comus brought it deliberately back to the danger zone . 
If you are really bothered about your card debt I will send you the two pounds by messenger boy early this afternoon . 
She spoke quietly and with great decision . 
And I shall not be at the Connor's dance to night , she continued it's too hot for dancing . 
I'm going home now please don't bother to accompany me , I particularly wish to go alone . 
Comus saw that he had overstepped the mark of her good nature . 
Wisely he made no immediate attempt to force himself back into her good graces . 
He would wait till her indignation had cooled . 
His tactics would have been excellent if he had not forgotten that unbeaten army on his flank . 
She had been willing to lower her standard of moral requirements in proportion as she was fond of the boy , but there was a point beyond which she would not go . 
He had hurt her pride besides alarming her sense of caution . 
Suzette , on whom she felt a thoroughly justified tendency to look down , had at any rate an attentive and considerate lover . 
Get rid of Joyeuse and come and take me out to lunch somewhere , demanded Elaine . 
How jolly , said Youghal . 
Let's go to the Corridor Restaurant . 
The head waiter there is an old Viennese friend of mine and looks after me beautifully . 
I've never been there with a lady before , and he's sure to ask me afterwards , in his fatherly way , if we're engaged . 
The lunch was a success in every way . 
There was just enough orchestral effort to immerse the conversation without drowning it , and Youghal was an attentive and inspired host . 
Through an open doorway Elaine could see the cafe reading room , with its imposing array of NEUE FREIE PRESSE , BERLINER TAGEBLATT , and other exotic newspapers hanging on the wall . 
There's always a chastening corrective in the thought that some of them may have printed your portrait . 
When once you've seen your features hurriedly reproduced in the MATIN , for instance , you feel you would like to be a veiled Turkish woman for the rest of your life . 
And Youghal gazed long and lovingly at his reflection in the nearest mirror , as an antidote against possible incitements to humility in the portrait gallery of fame . 
If Suzette could have been forced to attend as a witness at a neighbouring table she would have felt even happier . 
Yes , said Youghal , and he seemed quite crestfallen when I had to say 'no . 
It would be horrid to disappoint him when he's looked after us so charmingly , said Elaine tell him that we are . 
Mervyn Quentock had chosen the latter and happier manner . 
His eccentricity took the form of flying in the face of some of the prevailing social currents of the day , but as a reactionary , never as a reformer . 
He absolutely declined to execute portraits of Americans unless they hailed from certain favoured States . 
Art , she continued , addressing herself to the Rev . 
Poltimore Vardon , has always been geographically exclusive . 
As a Socialist I'm bound to recognise the right of Ealing to compare itself with Avignon , but one cannot expect the Muses to put the two on a level . 
Exclusiveness , said the Reverend Poltimore , has been the salvation of Art , just as the lack of it is proving the downfall of religion . 
Poltimore Vardon had once seen a resemblance in himself to Voltaire , and had lived alongside the comparison ever since . 
No wonder that religion is falling into disuse in this country under such ill directed methods . 
You can't prevent the heathen being converted if they choose to be , said Lady Caroline this is an age of toleration . 
You could always deny it , said the Rev . 
Poltimore , like the Belgians do with regrettable occurrences in the Congo . 
But I would go further than that . 
I would stimulate the waning enthusiasm for Christianity in this country by labelling it as the exclusive possession of a privileged few . 
Time is just as exclusive in its way as Art , said Lady Caroline . 
In what way ? said the Reverend Poltimore . 
Your pleasantries about religion would have sounded quite clever and advanced in the early 'nineties . 
To day they have a dreadfully warmed up flavour . 
The whole of the Sherard Blaw school of discursive drama suggests , to my mind , Early Victorian furniture in a travelling circus . 
However , you will always have relays of people from the suburbs to listen to the Mocking Bird of yesterday , and sincerely imagine it is the harbinger of something new and revolutionising . 
WOULD you mind passing that plate of sandwiches , asked one of the trio of young ladies , emboldened by famine . 
With pleasure , said Lady Caroline , deftly passing her a nearly empty plate of bread and butter . 
I meant the place of caviare sandwiches . 
So sorry to trouble you , persisted the young lady Her sorrow was misapplied Lady Caroline had turned her attention to a newcomer . 
A very interesting exhibition , Ada Spelvexit was saying faultless technique , as far as I am a judge of technique , and quite a master touch in the way of poses . 
But have you noticed how very animal his art is ? He seems to shut out the soul from his portraits . 
I nearly cried when I saw dear Winifred depicted simply as a good looking healthy blonde . 
I wish you had , said Lady Caroline the spectacle of a strong , brave woman weeping at a private view in the Rutland Galleries would have been so sensational . 
It would certainly have been reproduced in the next Drury Lane drama . 
And I'm so unlucky I never see these sensational events . 
I was ill with appendicitis , you know , when Lulu Braminguard dramatically forgave her husband , after seventeen years of estrangement , during a State luncheon party at Windsor . 
The old queen was furious about it . 
She said it was so disrespectful to the cook to be thinking of such a thing at such a time . 
To paint the right people at the wrong end may be an eccentricity , but it is scarcely an indiscretion , pronounced Lady Caroline . 
One of the portraits which attracted more than a passing flutter of attention was a costume study of Francesca Bassington . 
The same note was struck in the beflowered satin of the lady's kirtle , and in the pomegranate pattern of the brocade that draped the couch on which she was seated . 
The artist had called his picture Recolte . 
It was a landscape clutched in the grip of winter , naked , bleak , black frozen a winter in which things died and knew no rewakening . 
If the picture typified harvest , it was a harvest of artificial growth . 
It leaves a great deal to the imagination , doesn't it ? said Ada Spelvexit , who had edged away from the range of Lady Caroline's tongue . 
At any rate one can tell who it's meant for , said Serena Golackly . 
Oh , yes , it's a good likeness of dear Francesca , admitted Ada of course , it flatters her . 
Comus stood looking at the portrait of his mother with the feeling of one who comes suddenly across a once familiar half forgotten acquaintance in unfamiliar surroundings . 
The likeness was undoubtedly a good one , but the artist had caught an expression in Francesca's eyes which few people had ever seen there . 
With the influence of Elaine's money behind him he promised himself that he would find some occupation that would remove from himself the reproach of being a waster and idler . 
There were lots of careers , he told himself , that were open to a man with solid financial backing and good connections . 
The crowd grew thicker in the galleries , cheerfully enduring an amount of overcrowding that would have been fiercely resented in a railway carriage . 
At the present moment she was being whimsically apologetic . 
I always imagine that my punishment in another world will be perpetually sharpening pencils and cleaning palettes for unending relays of misguided young people whom I deliberately encouraged in their artistic delusions . 
Do you suppose we shall all get appropriate punishments in another world for our sins in this ? asked Quentock . 
Not so much for our sins as for our indiscretions they are the things which do the most harm and cause the greatest trouble . 
I feel certain that Christopher Columbus will undergo the endless torment of being discovered by parties of American tourists . 
You see I am quite old fashioned in my ideas about the terrors and inconveniences of the next world . 
And now I must be running away I've got to open a Free Library somewhere . 
I really am going now . 
At the entrance she stopped for a moment to exchange a word or two with a young man who had just arrived . 
But Youghal himself seemed to be announcing the event with which the congratulations were connected . 
Had some dramatic catastrophe overtaken the Government , Comus wondered . 
And then , as he pressed nearer , a chance word , the coupling of two names , told him the news . 
in a frame of mind that embraced a tangle of competing emotions . 
In fact the wonder seemed rather that she should have been so long in doubt as to which of her wooers really enjoyed her honest approval . 
And now that she had installed Youghal in the first place of her affections he had rapidly acquired in her eyes some of the qualities which ranked highest in her estimation . 
Like the proverbial buyer she had the happy feminine tendency of magnifying the worth of her possession as soon as she had acquired it . 
And Courtenay Youghal gave Elaine some justification for her sense of having chosen wisely . 
Above all other things , selfish and cynical though he might appear at times , he was unfailingly courteous and considerate towards her . 
That was a circumstance which would always have carried weight with her in judging any man in this case its value was enormously heightened by contrast with the behaviour of her other wooer . 
And Youghal had in her eyes the advantage which the glamour of combat , even the combat of words and wire pulling , throws over the fighter . 
For the moment , however , his place in public life was sufficiently marked out to give him a secure footing in that world where people are counted individually and not in herds . 
The woman whom he would make his wife would have the chance , too , if she had the will and the skill , to become an individual who counted . 
She found a certain satisfaction in scrupulously observing her promise , made earlier on that eventful day , and sent off a messenger with the stipulated loan . 
Elaine was possessed with an unusual but quite over mastering hankering to visit her cousin Suzette Brankley . 
In return Elaine armed herself with that particular brand of mock humility which can be so terribly disconcerting if properly wielded . 
No quarrel of any description stood between them and one could not legitimately have described them as enemies , but they never disarmed in one another's presence . 
A misfortune of any magnitude falling on one of them would have been sincerely regretted by the other , but any minor discomfiture would have produced a feeling very much akin to satisfaction . 
Elaine had not personally congratulated Suzette since the formal announcement of her engagement to the young man with the dissentient tailoring effects . 
The impulse to go and do so now , overmastered her sense of what was due to Comus in the way of explanation . 
Suzette's mother welcomed her unexpected visitor with obvious satisfaction . 
From there , of course , the road would be open to him to higher things . 
Yes , said Elaine , he might become an alderman . 
Have you seen their photographs , taken together ? asked Mrs. Brankley , abandoning the subject of Egbert's prospective career . 
No , do show me , said Elaine , with a flattering show of interest I've never seen that sort of thing before . 
Suzette came into the room , wearing the dress that she had worn in the Park that morning . 
Of course , you've been hearing all about THE engagement from mother , she cried , and then set to work conscientiously to cover the same ground . 
We met at Grindelwald , you know . 
He always calls me his Ice Maiden because we first got to know each other on the skating rink . 
Quite romantic , wasn't it ? Then we asked him to tea one day , and we got to be quite friendly . 
He wasn't the only one who was smitten with Suzette , Mrs. Brankley hastened to put in , fearful lest Elaine might suppose that Egbert had had things all his own way . 
There was an American millionaire who was quite taken with her , and a Polish count of a very old family . 
I assure you I felt quite nervous at some of our tea parties . 
My marriage with Egbert will , of course , enlarge the sphere of my life enormously , pursued Suzette . 
Yes , said Elaine her eyes were rather remorselessly taking in the details of her cousin's toilette . 
It is said that nothing is sadder than victory except defeat . 
Suzette began to feel that the tragedy of both was concentrated in the creation which had given her such unalloyed gratification , till Elaine had come on the scene . 
A woman can be so immensely helpful in the social way to a man who is making a career for himself . 
And I'm so glad to find that we've a great many ideas in common . 
We each made out a list of our idea of the hundred best books , and quite a number of them were the same . 
He looks bookish , said Elaine , with a critical glance at the photograph . 
Oh , he's not at all a bookworm , said Suzette quickly , though he's tremendously well read . 
He's quite the man of action . 
Does he hunt ? asked Elaine . 
No , he doesn't get much time or opportunity for riding . 
What a pity , commented Elaine I don't think I could marry a man who wasn't fond of riding . 
She gave Lady Caroline her due quotation marks , but the sudden tactfulness with which she looked away from her cousin's frock was entirely her own idea . 
A young man entering the room at this moment caused a diversion that was rather welcome to Suzette . 
Elaine might be as critical as she pleased , but a live lover outweighed any number of well dressed straight riding cavaliers who existed only as a distant vision of the delectable husband . 
Egbert was one of those men who have no small talk , but possess an inexhaustible supply of the larger variety . 
A suggestion of gas lit mission halls , wet umbrellas , and discreet applause seemed to accompany him everywhere . 
He was an exponent , among other things , of what he called New Thought , which seemed to lend itself conveniently to the employment of a good deal of rather stale phraseology . 
'Tis not in mortals to insure succession , and Egbert was admittedly mortal . 
Elaine found him immensely entertaining , and would certainly have exerted herself to draw him out if such a proceeding had been at all necessary . 
He is exactly the husband I should have chosen for you , Suzette . 
For the second time that afternoon Suzette felt a sense of waning enthusiasm for one of her possessions . 
Mrs. Brankley detected the note of ironical congratulation in her visitor's verdict . 
Then with a smiling air of heavy patronage she delivered herself of her one idea of a damaging counter stroke . 
It will be formally announced in the papers in a day or two . 
But who is it ? Is it the young man who was with you in the Park this morning ? asked Suzette . 
Let me see , who was I with in the Park this morning ? A very good looking dark boy ? Oh no , not Comus Bassington . 
Someone you know by name , anyway , and I expect you've seen his portrait in the papers . 
A flying man ? asked Mrs. Brankley . 
Courtenay Youghal , said Elaine . 
Mrs. Brankley and Suzette had often rehearsed in the privacy of their minds the occasion when Elaine should come to pay her personal congratulations to her engaged cousin . 
It had never been in the least like this . 
On her return from her enjoyable afternoon visit Elaine found an express messenger letter waiting for her . 
It was from Comus , thanking her for her loan and returning it . 
I suppose I ought never to have asked you for it , he wrote , but you are always so deliciously solemn about money matters that I couldn't resist . 
Just heard the news of your engagement to Courtenay . 
I'm far too stoney broke to buy you a wedding present so I'm going to give you back the bread and butter dish . 
Luckily it still has your crest on it . 
I shall love to think of you and Courtenay eating bread and butter out of it for the rest of your lives . 
There was not a trace of regret or upbraiding in his note he had walked out of their mutual fairyland as abruptly as she had , and to all appearances far more unconcernedly . 
And she would never know . 
If Comus possessed one useless gift to perfection it was the gift of laughing at Fate even when it had struck him hardest . 
One day , perhaps , the laughter and mockery would be silent on his lips , and Fate would have the advantage of laughing last . 
CHAPTER XII A DOOR closed and Francesca Bassington sat alone in her well beloved drawing room . 
The visitor who had been enjoying the hospitality of her afternoon tea table had just taken his departure . 
She had met him in the hall at eleven o'clock , and he had hurried past her , merely imparting the information that he would not be in till dinner that evening . 
Francesca's conviction that things had gone wrong between Comus and Elaine de Frey grew in strength as the day wore on . 
She lunched at a friend's house , but it was not a quarter where special social information of any importance was likely to come early to hand . 
So then we had to guess who the lucky man was . 
'It can't be Captain Parminter , we all said , 'because he's always been sweet on Joan . 
And then Emily said The recording voice reeled off the catalogue of inane remarks with a comfortable purring complacency that held out no hope of an early abandoning of the topic . 
Francesca sat and wondered why the innocent acceptance of a cutlet and a glass of indifferent claret should lay one open to such unsparing punishment . 
Just think , she buzzed inconsequently , my sister in Cambridgeshire has hatched out thirty three White Orpington chickens in her incubator ! What eggs did she put in it ? asked Francesca . 
Oh , some very special strain of White Orpington . 
Then I don't see anything remarkable in the result . 
If she had put in crocodile's eggs and hatched out White Orpingtons , there might have been something to write to COUNTRY LIFE about . 
If they could only speak , what tragedies and comedies they could tell us of , what flirtations and proposals . 
Let us be devoutly thankful that they can't , said Francesca , with a shuddering recollection of the luncheon table conversation . 
The arrival of George St . 
Michael boded bad news , but at any rate news , and she gave him an almost cordial welcome . 
Well , you see I wasn't far wrong about Miss de Frey and Courtenay Youghal , was I ? he chirruped , almost before he had seated himself . 
Francesca was to be spared any further spinning out of her period of uncertainty . 
Yes , it's officially given out , he went on , and it's to appear in the MORNING POST to morrow . 
I heard it from Colonel Deel this morning , and he had it direct from Youghal himself . 
Yes , please , one lump I'm not fashionable , you see . 
He had made the same remark about the sugar in his tea with unfailing regularity for at least thirty years . 
Fashions in sugar are apparently stationary . 
Michael paused in his narrative to give an appreciative giggle . 
She could sympathise with , or at any rate understand , the tendency of oriental despots to inflict death or ignominious chastisement on messengers bearing tidings of misfortune and defeat , and St . 
Fortunately for her powers of polite endurance , which had been put to such searching and repeated tests that day , St . 
They'll be quite one of the best looking and most interesting couples of the Season , won't they ? he cried , by way of farewell . 
The door closed and Francesca Bassington sat alone in her drawing room . 
Before she could give way to the bitter luxury of reflection on the downfall of her hopes , it was prudent to take precautionary measures against unwelcome intrusion . 
Summoning the maid who had just speeded the departing St . 
Michael , she gave the order I am not at home this afternoon to Lady Caroline Benaresq . 
Then she sat down to think , and her thinking was beyond the relief of tears . 
She had built herself a castle of hopes , and it had not been a castle in Spain , but a structure well on the probable side of the Pyrenees . 
There had been a solid foundation on which to build . 
Miss de Frey's fortune was an assured and unhampered one , her liking for Comus had been an obvious fact his courtship of her a serious reality . 
The young people had been much together in public , and their names had naturally been coupled in the match making gossip of the day . 
The only serious shadow cast over the scene had been the persistent presence , in foreground or background , of Courtenay Youghal . 
He might even have been moulded , by the resourceful influence of an ambitious wife , into a man with some definite purpose in life . 
The prospect had vanished with cruel suddenness , and the anxieties were crowding back again , more insistent than ever . 
And in the dashing of his prospects , Francesca saw the threatening of her own . 
The old anxiety as to her precarious tenure of her present quarters put on again all its familiar terrors . 
One day , she foresaw , in the horribly near future , George St . 
It was unthinkable , but the trouble was that it had to be thought about . 
If the house in Blue Street could not have been compounded for there were other desirable residences which would have been capable of consoling Francesca for her lost Eden . 
So you have lost your chance with the heiress , she remarked abruptly . 
Yes , said Comus , coolly Courtenay Youghal has added her to his other successes . 
And you have added her to your other failures , pursued Francesca , relentlessly her temper had been tried that day beyond ordinary limits . 
I thought you seemed getting along so well with her , she continued , as Comus remained uncommunicative . 
We hit it off rather well together , said Comus , and added with deliberate bluntness , I suppose she got rather sick at my borrowing money from her . 
She thought it was all I was after . 
This great stroke of good luck that had seemed about to fall into their laps had been thrust aside by an act or series of acts of wanton paltry folly . 
The good ship had been lost for the sake of the traditional ha'porth of tar . 
Elaine de Frey and her fortune might have been the making of Comus , but he had hurried in as usual to effect his own undoing . 
Calmness did not in this case come with reflection the more Francesca thought about the matter , the more exasperated she grew . 
Comus threw himself down in a low chair and watched her without a trace of embarrassment or concern at her mortification . 
And to think she should be captured by Courtenay Youghal , said Francesca , bitterly I've always deplored your intimacy with that young man . 
It's hardly my intimacy with him that's made Elaine accept him , said Comus . 
Francesca realised the futility of further upbraiding . 
Comus , she said quietly and wearily , you are an exact reversal of the legend of Pandora's Box . 
You have all the charm and advantages that a boy could want to help him on in the world , and behind it all there is the fatal damning gift of utter hopelessness . 
I think , said Comus , that is the best description that anyone has ever given of me . 
For the moment there was a flush of sympathy and something like outspoken affection between mother and son . 
The old fatal topic of estrangement came to the fore , the question of immediate ways and means , and mother and son faced themselves again as antagonists on a well disputed field . 
What is done is done , said Francesca , with a movement of tragic impatience that belied the philosophy of her words there is nothing to be gained by crying over spilt milk . 
There is the present and the future to be thought about , though . 
One can't go on indefinitely as a tenant for life in a fools' paradise . 
Then she pulled herself together and proceeded to deliver an ultimatum which the force of circumstances no longer permitted her to hold in reserve . 
And you , I'm afraid , will have to be thinking of leaving England at equally short notice . 
Henry told me the other day that he can get you something out in West Africa . 
The pay won't be very good at first , but living is not dear out there . 
West Africa , said Comus , reflectively it's a sort of modern substitute for the old fashioned OUBLIETTE , a convenient depository for tiresome people . 
Dear Uncle Henry may talk lugubriously about the burden of Empire , but he evidently recognises its uses as a refuse consumer . 
My dear Comus , you are talking of the West Africa of yesterday . 
What a beautiful bit of persuasive prose it reminds one of the Psalms and even more of a company prospectus . 
If you were honest you'd confess that you lifted it straight out of a rubber or railway promotion scheme . 
Seriously , mother , if I must grub about for a living , why can't I do it in England ? I could go into a brewery for instance . 
Breweries and all those sort of things necessitate money to start with one has to pay premiums or invest capital in the undertaking , and so forth . 
And as we have no money available , and can scarcely pay our debts as it is , it's no use thinking about it . 
Can't we sell something ? asked Comus . 
He made no actual suggestion as to what should be sacrificed , but he was looking straight at the Van der Meulen . 
For a moment Francesca felt a stifling sensation of weakness , as though her heart was going to stop beating . 
Then she sat forward in her chair and spoke with energy , almost fierceness . 
When I am dead my things can be sold and dispersed . 
As long as I am alive I prefer to keep them by me . 
In her holy place , with all her treasured possessions around her , this dreadful suggestion had been made . 
And the Van der Meulen , at which Comus had looked with impious appraising eyes , was the most sacred of them all . 
If an alarm of fire had been raised it would have been the first thing for whose safety she would have troubled . 
And Comus had almost suggested that it should be parted with , as one sold railway shares and other soulless things . 
He sat listening without comment , though she purposely let fall remarks that she hoped might sting him into self defence or protest . 
And he sat through it as silent and seemingly unmoved as though she had been rehearsing a speech for some drawing room comedy . 
When she had had her say his method of retort was not the soft answer that turneth away wrath but the inconsequent one that shelves it . 
Let's go and dress for dinner . 
The meal , like so many that Francesca and Comus had eaten in each other's company of late , was a silent one . 
Now that the full bearings of the disaster had been discussed in all its aspects there was nothing more to be said . 
Any attempt at ignoring the situation , and passing on to less controversial topics would have been a mockery and pretence which neither of them would have troubled to sustain . 
So the meal went forward with its dragged out dreary intimacy of two people who were separated by a gulf of bitterness , and whose hearts were hard with resentment against one another . 
Francesca felt a sense of relief when she was able to give the maid the order to serve her coffee upstairs . 
Comus had a sullen scowl on his face , but he looked up as she rose to leave the room , and gave his half mocking little laugh . 
You needn't look so tragic , he said , You're going to have your own way . 
I'll go out to that West African hole . 
I forget her name , said his neighbour she writes . 
She's the author of that book , 'The Woman who wished it was Wednesday , you know . 
It used to be the convention that women writers should be plain and dowdy now we have gone to the other extreme and build them on extravagantly decorative lines . 
A buzz of recognition came from the front rows of the pit , together with a craning of necks on the part of those in less favoured seats . 
It heralded the arrival of Sherard Blaw , the dramatist who had discovered himself , and who had given so ungrudgingly of his discovery to the world . 
The curse of our party system , from his point of view , is that it takes up so much room in the press . 
Lady Caroline blinked her eyes . 
My dear Archdeacon , she said , no one can be an unbeliever nowadays . 
The Christian Apologists have left one nothing to disbelieve . 
The Archdeacon rose with a delighted chuckle . 
The door of the box opened and Courtenay Youghal entered , bringing with him subtle suggestion of chaminade and an atmosphere of political tension . 
This was Saturday night , and unless some successful cajolery were effected between now and Monday afternoon , Ministers would be , seemingly , in danger of defeat . 
Ah , here is Youghal , said the Archdeacon he will be able to tell us what is going to happen in the next forty eight hours . 
I hear the Prime Minister says it is a matter of conscience , and they will stand or fall by it . 
His hopes and sympathies were notoriously on the Ministerial side . 
Youghal greeted Lady Caroline and subsided gracefully into a chair well in the front of the box . 
A buzz of recognition rippled slowly across the house . 
For the Government to fall on a matter of conscience , he said , would be like a man cutting himself with a safety razor . 
Lady Caroline purred a gentle approval . 
I'm afraid it's true , Archdeacon , she said . 
No one can effectively defend a Government when it's been in office several years . 
The Archdeacon took refuge in light skirmishing . 
I believe Lady Caroline sees the makings of a great Socialist statesman in you , Youghal , he observed . 
Great Socialist statesmen aren't made , they're stillborn , replied Youghal . 
What is the play about to night ? asked a pale young woman who had taken no part in the talk . 
I don't know , said Lady Caroline , but I hope it's dull . 
If there is any brilliant conversation in it I shall burst into tears . 
Whenever I hear his music I feel that I want to go up into a mountain and pray . 
Can you understand that feeling ? The girl to whom she was unburdening herself shook her head . 
You see , I've heard his music chiefly in Switzerland , and we were up among the mountains all the time , so it wouldn't have made any difference . 
What I think is so splendid about his music commenced another starling voice on the further side of the girl . 
The play promised to be a success . 
The action of the piece was now and then delayed thereby , but the duration of its run would be materially prolonged . 
The curtain came down on the first act amid an encouraging instalment of applause , and the audience turned its back on the stage and began to take a renewed interest in itself . 
The authoress of The Woman who wished it was Wednesday had swept like a convalescent whirlwind , subdued but potentially tempestuous , into Lady Caroline's box . 
I've just trodden with all my weight on the foot of an eminent publisher as I was leaving my seat , she cried , with a peal of delighted laughter . 
He was such a dear about it I said I hoped I hadn't hurt him , and he said , 'I suppose you think , who drives hard bargains should himself be hard . 
Wasn't it pet lamb of him ? I've never trodden on a pet lamb , said Lady Caroline , so I've no idea what its behaviour would be under the circumstances . 
The grave brown eyes and the mocking green grey ones had looked their last into each other's depths . 
It was the life he knew and loved and basked in , and it was the life he was leaving . 
That was the life he foresaw and dreaded , and that was the life he was going to . 
In less than an hour it would be over in a few months' time it would be an unreal memory . 
In the third interval , as he gazed round at the chattering house , someone touched him on the arm . 
It was Lady Veula Croot . 
I suppose in a week's time you'll be on the high seas , she said . 
I'm coming to your farewell dinner , you know your mother has just asked me . 
I'm not going to talk the usual rot to you about how much you will like it and so on . 
So conveniently effective , to wind up a comedy with the commencement of someone else's tragedy . 
And every one will go away saying 'I'm glad it had a happy ending . 
Lady Veula moved back to her seat , with her pleasant smile on her lips and the look of infinite weariness in her eyes . 
Francesca sat in Serena Golackly's box listening to Colonel Springfield's story of what happened to a pigeon cote in his compound at Poona . 
And there , dear lady , concluded the Colonel , were the eleven dead pigeons . 
What had become of the bandicoot no one ever knew . 
Francesca thanked him for his story , and complacently inscribed the figure on the margin of her theatre programme . 
Almost at the same moment she heard George St . 
Michael's voice pattering out a breathless piece of intelligence for the edification of Serena Golackly and anyone else who might care to listen . 
Francesca galvanised into sudden attention . 
Emmeline Chetrof to a fellow in the Indian Forest Department . 
Michael spoke almost with a sense of grievance . 
But to Francesca , who had listened with startled apprehension at the mention of Emmeline Chetrof's name , the news came in a flood of relief and thankfulness . 
Emmeline might lose her fancy for her absentee lover , and might never replace him with another . 
A golden possibility of perpetual tenancy of her present home began to float once more through Francesca's mind . 
And now a marriage had been arranged and would not shortly take place , might indeed never take place . 
As Francesca turned to watch the fourth act of the play , her mind was singing a paean of thankfulness and exultation . 
It was as though some artificer sent by the Gods had reinforced with a substantial cord the horsehair thread that held up the sword of Damocles over her head . 
Her love for her home , for her treasured household possessions , and her pleasant social life was able to expand once more in present security , and feed on future hope . 
Serena's invitation to go on to the Savoy for supper fitted in exactly with her mood of exhilaration . 
It would be a fit and appropriate wind up to an auspicious evening . 
The cold chicken and modest brand of Chablis waiting for her at home should give way to a banquet of more festive nature . 
So the Government is going to climb down , after all , she said , with a provocative assumption of private information on the subject . 
For her , at any rate , the comedy had had a happy ending . 
The laughing , chattering , yawning throng had filtered out of the vestibule , and was melting away in final groups from the steps of the theatre . 
An impatient attendant gave him his coat and locked up the cloak room . 
Comus stepped out under the portico he looked at the posters announcing the play , and in anticipation he could see other posters announcing its th performance . 
The good looking Bassington boy ? Oh , dead , or rubber growing or sheep farming or something of that sort . 
CHAPTER XIV THE farewell dinner which Francesca had hurriedly organised in honour of her son's departure threatened from the outset to be a doubtfully successful function . 
In the first place , as he observed privately , there was very little of Comus and a good deal of farewell in it . 
His own particular friends were unrepresented . 
When Comus heard of the circumstance he laughed long and boisterously his spirits , Francesca noted , seemed to be rising fast as the hour for departure drew near . 
The other guests included Serena Golackly and Lady Veula , the latter having been asked on the inspiration of the moment at the theatrical first night . 
Politics he avoided the ground was too well known , and there was a definite no to every definite yes that could be put forward . 
Moreover , argument was not congenial to his disposition , which preferred an unchallenged flow of dissertation modified by occasional helpful questions which formed the starting point for new offshoots of word spinning . 
He improved on the record of a socially much travelled individual whose experience has become classical , and went to most of the best houses twice . 
His inclusion as a guest at this particular dinner party was not a very happy inspiration . 
He was inclined to patronise Comus , as well as the African continent , and on even slighter acquaintance . 
An untoward little incident had marked the commencement of the meal . 
A small still life picture that hung over the sideboard had snapped its cord and slid down with an alarming clatter on to the crowded board beneath it . 
Thank you all the same for describing it , said Comus . 
Mrs. Greech had to suppress the interesting sequel to her broken crockery narrative , to wit , how she subsequently matched the shattered soup plates at Harrod's . 
Serena began to look helplessly apologetic . 
It was altogether rather a relief when the filling of champagne glasses gave Francesca an excuse for bringing matters back to their intended footing . 
It certainly was not turning out a comfortable or auspicious dinner party . 
My dear mother , cried Comus , you must have been drinking healths all the afternoon to make your hand so unsteady . 
He laughed gaily and with apparent carelessness , but again Lady Veula caught the frightened note in his laughter . 
Mrs. Henry , with practical sympathy , was telling Francesca two good ways for getting wine stains out of tablecloths . 
The others followed her example , and Comus drained his glass with a brief thank you all very much . 
The sense of constraint which hung over the company was not , however , marked by any uncomfortable pause in the conversation . 
Serena Golackly felt a certain relief at the fact that her imported guest was not , after all , monopolising the conversation . 
Oh , you politicians ! he exclaimed , with pleasant superiority you are always fighting about how things should be done , and the consequence is you are never able to do anything . 
Would you like me to tell you what a Unitarian horsedealer said to me at Brindisi about politicians ? A Unitarian horsedealer at Brindisi had all the allurement of the unexpected . 
Henry Greech's witticisms at the expense of the Front Opposition bench were destined to remain as unfinished as his wife's history of the broken soup plates . 
What I want to do is to make people think , he said , turning his prominent eyes on to his hostess it's so hard to make people think . 
At any rate you give them the opportunity , said Comus , cryptically . 
As the ladies rose to leave the table Comus crossed over to pick up one of Lady Veula's gloves that had fallen to the floor . 
I did not know you kept a dog , said Lady Veula . 
We don't , said Comus , there isn't one in the house . 
I could have sworn I saw one follow you across the hall this evening , she said . 
A small black dog , something like a schipperke ? asked Comus in a low voice . 
Yes , that was it . 
I saw it myself to night it ran from behind my chair just as I was sitting down . 
Don't say anything to the others about it it would frighten my mother . 
Have you ever seen it before ? Lady Veula asked quickly . 
Once , when I was six years old . 
It followed my father downstairs . 
She knew that Comus had lost his father at the age of six . 
In the drawing room Serena made nervous excuses for her talkative friend . 
Really , rather an interesting man , you know , and up to the eyes in all sorts of movements . 
Just the sort of person to turn loose at a drawing room meeting , or to send down to a mission hall in some unheard of neighbourhood . 
I should say he was a very good man , said Mrs. Greech she had forgiven the mutilation of her soup plate story . 
The party broke up early as most of the guests had other engagements to keep . 
The weariness in her eyes was more marked than ever as she lay back against the cushions of her carriage . 
What a tragedy life is , she said , aloud to herself . 
But she feared lest she should break down , and she did not wish to cloud his light hearted gaiety on the very eve of his departure . 
She watched him for a moment as he stood in the hall , settling his tie before a mirror , and then went quietly back to her drawing room . 
It had not been a very successful dinner party , and the general effect it had left on her was one of depression . 
Comus , with a lively musical comedy air on his lips , and a look of wretchedness in his eyes , went out to visit the haunts that he was leaving so soon . 
CHAPTER XV ELAINE YOUGHAL sat at lunch in the Speise Saal of one of Vienna's costlier hotels . 
The double headed eagle , with its K. u . 
K. legend , everywhere met the eye and announced the imperial favour in which the establishment basked . 
Unannounced by heraldic symbolism but unconcealable by reason of nature's own blazonry , were several citizens and citizenesses of the great republic of the Western world . 
It is the glory of democracies that they may be misled but never driven . 
Here and there , like brave deeds in a dust patterned world , flashed and glittered the sumptuous uniforms of representatives of the Austrian military caste . 
Also in evidence , at discreet intervals , were stray units of the Semetic tribe that nineteen centuries of European neglect had been unable to mislay . 
Elaine sitting with Courtenay at an elaborately appointed luncheon table , gay with high goblets of Bohemian glassware , was mistress of three discoveries . 
Secondly , to her relief , that one is not expected to be sentimentally amorous during a modern honeymoon . 
Thirdly , rather to her dismay , that Courtenay Youghal did not necessarily expect her to be markedly affectionate in private . 
Someone had described him , after their marriage , as one of Nature's bachelors , and she began to see how aptly the description fitted him . 
Will those Germans on our left never stop talking ? she asked , as an undying flow of Teutonic small talk rattled and jangled across the intervening stretch of carpet . 
Not one of those three women has ceased talking for an instant since we've been sitting here . 
They will presently , if only for a moment , said Courtenay when the dish you have ordered comes in there will be a deathly silence at the next table . 
What Mr. Lonkins wants is a real DEEP cherry pie , announced a lady in a tone of dramatic and honest conviction . 
Why , yes , that is so , corroborated a gentleman who was apparently the Mr. Lonkins in question a real DEEP cherry pie . 
We had the same trouble way back in Paris , proclaimed another lady little Jerome and the girls don't want to eat any more CREME RENVERSEE . 
I'd give anything if they could get some real cherry pie . 
Real DEEP cherry pie , assented Mr. Lonkins . 
Way down in Ohio we used to have peach pie that was real good , said Mrs. Lonkins , turning on a tap of reminiscence that presently flowed to a cascade . 
The subject of pies seemed to lend itself to indefinite expansion . 
On the contrary , said Courtenay , they are a widely travelled set , and the man has had a notably interesting career . 
It is a form of home sickness with them to discuss and lament the cookery and foods that they've never had the leisure to stay at home and digest . 
The Wandering Jew probably babbled unremittingly about some breakfast dish that took so long to prepare that he had never time to eat it . 
A waiter deposited a dish of Wiener Nierenbraten in front of Elaine . 
At the same moment a magic hush fell upon the three German ladies at the adjoining table , and the flicker of a great fear passed across their eyes . 
Then they burst forth again into tumultuous chatter . 
Courtenay had proved a reliable prophet . 
Almost at the same moment as the luncheon dish appeared on the scene , two ladies arrived at a neighbouring table , and bowed with dignified cordiality to Elaine and Courtenay . 
They were two of the more worldly and travelled of Elaine's extensive stock of aunts , and they happened to be making a short stay at the same hotel as the young couple . 
As a child she might have been perfectly well able to recite On Linden when the sun was low , but one felt certain that nothing ever induced her to do so . 
Probably her manner was merely the defensive outwork of an innate shyness , but she was not a woman who commanded confidences . 
A telephone call for Courtenay , commented the younger of the two women as Youghal hurriedly flashed through the room the telephone system seems to enter very largely into that young man's life . 
The telephone has robbed matrimony of most of its sting , said the elder so much more discreet than pen and ink communications which get read by the wrong people . 
Elaine's aunts were conscientiously worldly they were the natural outcome of a stock that had been conscientiously straight laced for many generations . 
Elaine had progressed to the pancake stage before Courtenay returned . 
Sorry to be away so long , he said , but I've arranged something rather nice for to night . 
There's rather a jolly masquerade ball on . 
I've 'phoned about getting a costume for you and it's alright . 
It will suit you beautifully , and I've got my harlequin dress with me . 
Madame Kelnicort , excellent soul , is going to chaperone you , and she'll take you back any time you like I'm quite unreliable when I get into fancy dress . 
I shall probably keep going till some unearthly hour of the morning . 
A masquerade ball in a strange city hardly represented Elaine's idea of enjoyment . 
Carefully to disguise one's identity in a neighbourhood where one was entirely unknown seemed to her rather meaningless . 
With Courtenay , of course , it was different he seemed to have friends and acquaintances everywhere . 
However , the matter had progressed to a point which would have made a refusal to go seem rather ungracious . 
Elaine finished her pancake and began to take a polite interest in her costume . 
What is your character ? asked Madame Kelnicort that evening , as they uncloaked , preparatory to entering the already crowded ball room . 
I believe I'm supposed to represent Marjolaine de Montfort , whoever she may have been , said Elaine . 
Courtenay declares he only wanted to marry me because I'm his ideal of her . 
But what a mistake to go as a character you know nothing about . 
To enjoy a masquerade ball you ought to throw away your own self and be the character you represent . 
Now Courtenay has been Harlequin since half way through dinner I could see it dancing in his eyes . 
At about six o'clock to morrow morning he will fall asleep and wake up a member of the British House of Parliament on his honeymoon , but to night he is unrestrainedly Harlequin . 
As she stood watching them she experienced a growing feeling of annoyance , chiefly with herself . 
She was assisting , as the French say , at one of the gayest scenes of Europe's gayest capital , and she was conscious of being absolutely unaffected by the gaiety around her . 
It was like watching a game of which you did not know the rules , and in the issue of which you were not interested . 
Elaine began to wonder what was the earliest moment at which she could drag Madame Kelnicort away from the revel without being guilty of sheer cruelty . 
Then Courtenay wriggled out of the crush and came towards her , a joyous laughing Courtenay , looking younger and handsomer than she had ever seen him . 
She could scarcely recognise in him to night the rising young debater who made embarrassing onslaughts on the Government's foreign policy before a crowded House of Commons . 
He claimed her for the dance that was just starting , and steered her dexterously into the heart of the waltzing crowd . 
You look more like Marjolaine than I should have thought a mortal woman of these days could look , he declared , only Marjolaine did smile sometimes . 
You have rather the air of wondering if you'd left out enough tea for the servants' breakfast . 
Don't mind my teasing I love you to look like that , and besides , it makes a splendid foil to my Harlequin my selfishness coming to the fore again , you see . 
But you really are to go home the moment you're bored the excellent Kelnicort gets heaps of dances throughout the winter , so don't mind sacrificing her . 
A little later in the evening Elaine found herself standing out a dance with a grave young gentleman from the Russian Embassy . 
Elaine could think of many of her countrymen who were not and never could have been youthful , but as far as Courtenay was concerned she recognised the fitness of the remark . 
And the recognition carried with it a sense of depression . 
Many a man who would patiently undergo martyrdom for religion's sake would be furiously unwilling to be a martyr to neuralgia . 
I think that is why you English love animals so much , pursued the young diplomat you are such splendid animals yourselves . 
You are lively because you want to be lively , not because people are looking on at you . 
Monsieur Courtenay is certainly an animal . 
I mean it as a high compliment . 
Am I an animal ? asked Elaine . 
Perhaps , said Elaine , with a tinge of bitterness in her voice , perhaps I am a vegetable . 
I think you most remind me of a picture , said the Russian . 
It was not the first time Elaine had heard the simile . 
I know , she said , the Narrow Gallery at the Louvre attributed to Leonardo da Vinci . 
Evidently the impression she made on people was solely one of externals . 
She possessed youth and good looks , considerable wealth , and had just made what would be thought by most people a very satisfactory marriage . 
And already she seemed to be standing aside as an onlooker where she had expected herself to be taking a leading part . 
Does this sort of thing appeal to you ? she asked the young Russian , nodding towards the gay scrimmage of masqueraders and rather prepared to hear an amused negative . 
But yes , of course , he answered costume balls , fancy fairs , cafe chantant , casino , anything that is not real life appeals to us Russians . 
Real life with us is the sort of thing that Maxim Gorki deals in . 
It interests us immensely , but we like to get away from it sometimes . 
Madame Kelnicort came up with another prospective partner , and Elaine delivered her ukase one more dance and then back to the hotel . 
Elaine breakfasted at her aunts' table the next morning at much her usual hour . 
Courtenay was sleeping the sleep of a happy tired animal . 
If ever little Jerome becomes President of the United States , said Elaine , I shall be able to contribute quite an informing article on his gastronomic likes and dislikes to the papers . 
The aunts were discreetly inquisitive as to the previous evening's entertainment . 
If Elaine would flirt mildly with somebody it would be such a good thing , said Mrs. Goldbrook it would remind Courtenay that he's not the only attractive young man in the world . 
Elaine , however , did not gratify their hopes she referred to the ball with the detachment she would have shown in describing a drawing room show of cottage industries . 
It was not difficult to discern in her description of the affair the confession that she had been slightly bored . 
Neither did it appear that his good opinion of his own attractions had suffered any serious shock . 
He was distinctly in a very good temper . 
The secret of enjoying a honeymoon , said Mrs. Goldbrook afterwards to her sister , is not to attempt too much . 
You mean ? Courtenay is content to try and keep one person amused and happy , and he thoroughly succeeds . 
He has also , said Mrs. Goldbrook , helped her to make the next biggest mistake of her life marrying Courtenay Youghal . 
Beasts and humans showed no such indifference to the temperature the sun would have to slant yet further downward before the earth would become a fit arena for their revived activities . 
Even as Comus watched he could see the beginnings of the evening's awakening . 
Here and there , bands of evil looking pigs roamed about , busy with foraging excursions that came unpleasantly athwart the border line of scavenging . 
And from the trees that bounded and intersected the village rose the horrible , tireless , spiteful sounding squawking of the iron throated crows . 
Comus sat and watched it all with a sense of growing aching depression . 
It was so utterly trivial to his eyes , so devoid of interest , and yet it was so real , so serious , so implacable in its continuity . 
The brain grew tired with the thought of its unceasing reproduction . 
Comus rose impatiently from his seat , and walked wearily across the hut to another window opening which commanded a broad view of the river . 
One could well understand primitive early races making propitiatory sacrifices to the spirit of a great river on whose shores they dwelt . 
Time and the river were the two great forces that seemed to matter here . 
It was almost a relief to turn back to that other outlook and watch the village life that was now beginning to wake in earnest . 
The procession of water fetchers had formed itself in a long chattering line that stretched river wards . 
Comus wondered how many tens of thousands of times that procession had been formed since first the village came into existence . 
This thought recurred again and again with painful persistence , a morbid growth arising in part from his loneliness . 
Demons one might believe in , if one did not hold one's imagination in healthy check , but a kindly all managing God , never . 
In any case , humdrum or outstanding , they had their spheres of importance , little or big . 
They dominated a breakfast table or harassed a Government , according to their capabilities or opportunities , or perhaps they merely had irritating mannerisms . 
At any rate it seemed highly probable that they had souls . 
Here a man simply made a unit in an unnumbered population , an inconsequent dot in a loosely compiled deathroll . 
It was nearly time to be starting towards the next halting place where he would dine or at any rate eat something . 
But the lassitude which the fever had bequeathed him made the tedium of travelling through interminable forest tracks a weariness to be deferred as long as possible . 
The bearers were nothing loth to let another half hour or so slip by , and Comus dragged a battered paper covered novel from the pocket of his coat . 
For a moment he could almost capture the sensation of being once again in those haunts that he loved then he looked round and pushed the book wearily from him . 
The steaming heat , the forest , the rushing river hemmed him in on all sides . 
Comus sat and watched , at first with an amused interest , then with a returning flood of depression and heart ache . 
He would pass presently out of the village and his bearers' feet would leave their indentations in the dust that would be his most permanent memorial in this little oasis of teeming life . 
And that other life , in which he once moved with such confident sense of his own necessary participation in it , how completely he had passed out of it . 
He had loved himself very well and never troubled greatly whether anyone else really loved him , and now he realised what he had made of his life . 
And at the same time he knew that if his chance were to come again he would throw it away just as surely , just as perversely . 
Fate played with him with loaded dice he would lose always . 
One person in the whole world had cared for him , for longer than he could remember , cared for him perhaps more than he knew , cared for him perhaps now . 
But a wall of ice had mounted up between him and her , and across it there blew that cold breath that chills or kills affection . 
His epitaph in the mouths of those that remembered him would be , Comus Bassington , the boy who never came back . 
And in his unutterable loneliness he bowed his head on his arms , that he might not see the joyous scrambling frolic on yonder hillside . 
CHAPTER XVII THE bleak rawness of a grey December day held sway over St . 
The overmastering unhappiness that filled her heart and stifled her thinking powers found answering echo in her surroundings . 
It was here that Francesca had made her way when the intolerable inaction of waiting had driven her forth from her home . 
She was waiting for that worst news of all , the news which does not kill hope , because there has been none to kill , but merely ends suspense . 
She already knew as much as that awaited message would tell her . 
She knew that she would never see Comus again , and she knew now that she loved him beyond all things that the world could hold for her . 
She did not stop to accuse or excuse herself for having sent him forth to what was to prove his death . 
The end that last dreadful piece of news which would write nevermore across his life and hers . 
The lively bustle in the streets had been a torture that she could not bear . 
It wanted but two days to Christmas and the gaiety of the season , forced or genuine , rang out everywhere . 
Christmas shopping , with its anxious solicitude or self centred absorption , overspread the West End and made the pavements scarcely passable at certain favoured points . 
Shouted directions where to find this or that article at its best mingled with salvos of Christmas good wishes . 
There was the tea shop where he and she had often taken tea together , or , in the days of their estrangement , sat with their separate friends at separate tables . 
The oubliette ! She remembered the bitter petulant name he had flung at his destined exile . 
That narcotic would never be given to her . 
Unrelenting , unsparing memory would be with her always to remind her of those last days of tragedy . 
The park was filling again with its floating population of loiterers , and Francesca's footsteps began to take a homeward direction . 
Something seemed to tell her that the message for which she waited had arrived and was lying there on the hall table . 
They were due to arrive shortly after lunch , and Francesca had left a note of apology , pleading an urgent engagement elsewhere . 
As she turned to make her way across the Mall into the Green Park a gentle voice hailed her from a carriage that was just drawing up by the sidewalk . 
Lady Caroline Benaresq had been favouring the Victoria Memorial with a long unfriendly stare . 
I wish I could say something I can't . 
Lady Caroline spoke in a harsh , grunting voice that few people had ever heard her use . 
Francesca crossed the Mall and the carriage drove on . 
Heaven help that poor woman , said Lady Caroline which was , for her , startlingly like a prayer . 
As Francesca entered the hall she gave a quick look at the table several packages , evidently an early batch of Christmas presents , were there , and two or three letters . 
On a salver by itself was the cablegram for which she had waited . 
A maid , who had evidently been on the lookout for her , brought her the salver . 
The servants were well aware of the dreadful thing that was happening , and there was pity on the girl's face and in her voice . 
This came for you ten minutes ago , ma'am , and Mr. Greech has been here , ma'am , with another gentleman , and was sorry you weren't at home . 
Mr. Greech said he would call again in about half an hour . 
Francesca carried the cablegram unopened into the drawing room and sat down for a moment to think . 
There was no need to read it yet , for she knew what she would find written there . 
For a few pitiful moments Comus would seem less hopelessly lost to her if she put off the reading of that last terrible message . 
She rose and crossed over to the windows and pulled down the blinds , shutting out the waning December day , and then reseated herself . 
Francesca turned to the small envelope lying in her lap very slowly she opened it and read the short message . 
Then she sat numb and silent for a long , long time , or perhaps only for minutes . 
The voice of Henry Greech in the hall , enquiring for her , called her to herself . 
Hurriedly she crushed the piece of paper out of sight he would have to be told , of course , but just yet her pain seemed too dreadful to be laid bare . 
Comus is dead was a sentence beyond her power to speak . 
I have bad news for you , Francesca , I'm sorry to say , Henry announced . 
It's a splendid copy , but still , unfortunately , only a copy . 
Henry paused and glanced at his sister to see how she had taken the unwelcome announcement . 
Even in the dim light he caught some of the anguish in her eyes . 
These disagreeable discoveries come at times to most picture fanciers and owners . 
Why , about twenty per cent . 
of the alleged Old Masters in the Louvre are supposed to be wrongly attributed . 
And there are heaps of similar cases in this country . 
Lady Dovecourt was telling me the other day that they simply daren't have an expert in to examine the Van Dykes at Columbey for fear of unwelcome disclosures . 
And besides , your picture is such an excellent copy that it's by no means without a value of its own . 
You must get over the disappointment you naturally feel , and take a philosophical view of the matter . 
