Uncles Josh's Punkin Centre Stories by Cal Stewart Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software Uncles Josh's Punkin Centre Stories By Cal Stewart Preface To the Reader . 
The one particular object in writing this book is to furnish you with an occasional laugh , and the writer with an occasional dollar . 
If you get the laugh you have your equivalent , and the writer has his . 
In Uncle Josh Weathersby you have a purely imaginary character , yet one true to life . 
A character chuck full of sunshine and rural simplicity . 
Take him as you find him , and in his experiences you will observe there is a bright side to everything . 
I secured a common school education , and at the age of twelve I left home , or rather home left me things just petered out . 
, run a threshing machine , cut bands , fed the machine and ran the engine . 
For the past four years have made the Uncle Josh stories for the talking machine . 
Wall I went down to see 'em , but their jokes , I knowed 'em all , Read 'em in My Old Yaller Almanac , Hangin' on the Kitchen Wall . 
Thar wuz Ezra Hoskins , Deacon Brown and a lot of us old codgers , Used to meet down at the grocery store , what wuz kept by Jason Rogers . 
I spose as how there are a good many of them thar bunco fellers around New York , but I tell you them thar street keer conductors take mighty good care on you . 
Wall that conductor feller he jest kept his eye on me , and every little bit he'd put his head in the door and say hold fast . 
But I'm transgressin' from what I started to tell ye . 
Wall I wuz sort of glad he took em cause he hed em all shined up slicker 'n a new tin whistle . 
Wall when I got up in the mornin' my trubbles commenced . 
Wall , along cum that durned porter and told me I wuz a wakin' up everybody in the keer . 
Wall after that things went along purty well fer a right smart while , then I et a snack out of my carpet bag and felt purty good . 
Wall that train got to runnin' slower and slower 'till it stopped at every house and when it cum to a double house it stopped twice . 
I didn't know I wuz so durned good lookin' . 
Wall I hed a great time with that feller , but I got here at last . 
You see I had an old friend a livin' down here named Henry Higgins , and I wanted to see Henry mighty bad . 
Henry and me , we wuz boys together down home at Punkin Centre , and I hadn't seen him in a long time . 
Wall , I got a feller to look up his name in the city almanac , and he showed me whar Henry lived , away up on a street called avenue five . 
Wall when I seen Henry's house it jist about took my breath away , I wuz that clar sot back . 
Henry's house is a good deal bigger'n the court house at Punkin Centre . 
Gosh I couldn't say anything fer about a minnit , that feller jist looked to me like a picter I'd seen in a story book . 
Wall finally I told him I wanted to see Henry Higgins , if it wuz the same Henry I used to know down home at Punkin Centre . 
Wall he took me into the house and introduced me to more wimmin folks than I ever seen before in all my life at one time . 
One lady wanted to know if I danced the german , but I told her I only danced in English . 
If it hadn't a bin in Henry's house I'd took a wrestle out of him . 
I guess I cut a caper at Henry's house . 
I'd seen all sorts of cooriosoties and monstrosities in cirkuses and meenagerys , but that wuz the fust time I'd ever seen a critter with his head and tail on the same end . 
I had quite a time with that heathen critter . 
Wall I don't spose I'd bin in thar over five minutes afore I made myself the laffin' stock of every one in thar . 
I noticed a feller a sottin' thar gittin' his boots blacked , and thar was a durned little pick pockit a pickin' his pockits . 
I never felt so durned foolish since the day I popped the question to Samantha . 
Wall , then a feller cum along and sed , everybody over to this end of the hall . 
Li too ra loo ri too ra loo ri too ra loo la ri do . 
The load was composed of both girls and boys , All tryin' to outdo the other in noise . 
And the way that we guarded agin the cold weather Wuz settin' all up spoon fashion together . 
Li too ra loo ri too ra loo ri too ra loo ri li do . 
Wall , they had a parrit in that place and the way he sputtered and jabbered and talked ! He wuz a whole show all to himself . 
Wall , I bought one of them birds from a feller one time he said it wuz a good talker . 
Wall , I took it hum and hed it about three months , and it never sed a durned word . 
Wall , when I went out the next mornin' , I tell you thar wuz a sight . 
I walked up and down it bout an hour and a half , and I couldn't find any stock exchange or see any place fer watterin' any stock . 
I couldn't see a pig nor a cow , nor a sheep nor a calf , or anything else that looked like stock to me . 
So finally I sed to a gentleman Mister , whar do they keep the menagery down here . 
He sed what menagery ? I sed the place whar they've got all them bulls and bears a fitin' . 
Wall I went along with him , and he took me up to some public institushun , near as I could make out it wuz a loonytick asylem . 
The minnit I sot eyes on them I knowed they wuz all crazy , and I'd hav to umer them if I got out of thar alive . 
Wall when they wan't a looking I got out of thar , and I felt mighty thankful to git out . 
There wuz a feller standin' on the front steps he had a sort of a unyform on I guess he wuz Superintendent of the institushun he talked purty sassy to me . 
I sed , Mister , what time does the fust car go up town . 
He sed the fust one went about twenty five years ago . 
I sed to him is that my car over thar ? He sed no sir , that car belongs to the street car company . 
I sez , wall guess I'll take it anyhow . 
He says you'd better not , thar's bin a good many cars missed around here lately . 
Wall , I got up and looked , and durned if he wasn't right . 
Uncle Josh and the Fire Department ONE day in New York , I thot I'd rite a letter home . 
Wall he says , You jist go out thar and put your letter in that box , and it will go right to the post offis . 
I sed wall now , gee whiz , ain't that handy . 
He sed why you durned old green horn , you've called out the hull fire department of New York City . 
Wall I guess you could have knocked me down with a feather . 
Wall they all commenced a laffin' , and I found out I'd arrested one of the post masters of New York City . 
I lost mother's letter and she never did git it . 
Wall I wuz a walkin' along down the street when I cum to a place whar they wuz auckshuneerin' off a lot of things . 
I stopped to see what they had to sell . 
Wall that place wuz jist chuck full of old fashioned cooriositys . 
Durned if I know which one of 'em got it when I left they wuz still a biddin' on it . 
Advice Advice is somethin' the other feller can't use , so he gives it to you . 
Uncle Josh on a Fifth Ave . 
'Bus I WUZ always sort of fond of ridin' , so I guess while I wuz down in New York I rode on about everything they've got to ride on thar . 
I wuz on hoss cars and hot air cars , and them sky light elevated roads . 
I sed Wall , now , I want to know , kin I ride on it ? And he sed You kin if you've got a nickel . 
Wall , I got in and sot down , and I jist about busted my buttins a laffin' at things what happened in that 'bus . 
Thar wuz a young lady cum in and sot down , and she had a little valise in her hand , 'bout a foot squar . 
Wall , I had to snicker right out , though I done my best not to , but I jist couldn't help it . 
I didn't have any small change so I handed the feller a five dollar bill . 
He sed Wall , you cum out here , I want to see you . 
Wall , I didn't know what he wanted , but I jist made up my mind if he indulged in any foolishness with me I'd flop him in about a minnit . 
Ambition Somethin' that has made one man a senator , and another man a convict . 
Wall I wish I could a got my hands on that little rascal fer about a minnit , and his mother would a seen me do it . 
Wall I went up to him and I sed , mister I'm sort of a stranger round here , wish you'd show me round 'til I do a little bargainin' . 
And he sed Oh you git out , you've got hay seed in your hair . 
Wall I chased that durned little baskit round 'til I got up to it , and when I did I was right thar whar I started from . 
Gee whiz , I never felt more foolish in all my life . 
Prosperity Consists principally of contentment for the man who is contented is prosperous , in his own way of thinking , though his neighbors may have a different opinion . 
I wuz walkin' down the street one day and I seen a sine , it sed Quick Lunch . 
I noticed one sine sed Put your trust in the Lord , and right under it wuz another sine what sed Try our mince pies . 
Wall , jist a little further up the street I seen another sine what sed Boots blacked on the inside . 
Now , any feller what gits his boots blacked on the inside ain't got much respect fer his socks . 
I git mine blacked on the outside . 
A little further up the street I seen a sine what sed , This is the door . 
Now , any durned fool could see it wuz a door . 
And then I seen another sine what sed Walk in . 
Wall , now , I wunder how in thunder they thought a feller wuz a goin' to cum in , on hoss back , or on a bisickle , or how . 
And then I seen another sine , it wuz in a winder and had a lot of tools around it , and the sine sed , Cast iron sinks . 
Wall , now , any durned fool what don't know that cast iron sinks , ought to have some one feel his head and find out what ails him . 
I had a little the durnd'st time a ridin' on them street cars what they got thar . 
Wall I wa'nt a ridin' on 'emnear as much as I wuz a runnin' after 'em tryin' to ketch 'em . 
Wall I got onto another car , and I got sot down , and I never laffed so much in all my life . 
Gosh I had to snicker right out loud . 
Wall by that time your uncle wuz a laffin' right out . 
But trouble's a blessing sometimes in disguise Fer I larned right thar on the spot , That the best sort of knowledge to hav in this world Is that by experience taught . 
So though many years have since passed away , And I've ventured on various routes , I'm still tryin' things jist as risky today As my fust pair of copper toed boots . 
Uncle Josh in Police Court I NEVER wuz in a town in my life what had as many cort houses in it as New York has got . 
Thar wuz the Jefferson Markit Cort , and the Essicks Markit Cort , and several other corts and markits , and markits and corts , I can't remember now . 
Wall , some of the cases they tried in that cort house made me snicker right out loud . 
And the Judge sed Mr. McGiness , what is your occupation ? And the little Irish feller sed Judge , your honor , I am a sailor . 
The Judge sed Mr. McGiness , you don't look to me as though you ever saw a ship in all your life . 
Bring in the next prisoner . 
Wall , the next prisoner what they brought in had sort of an impediment in his talk , and the way he stuttered jist beat all . 
The Judge sed Never mind , that will do . 
Officer , what is this prisoner charged with ? And the officer sed Judge , your honor , the way he talks sounds to me like he might be charged with sody water . 
Gosh , I got to laffin' so I had to git right out of the cort house . 
It sort of made me think of a law soot we had down hum when Jim Lawson wuz Jestice of the Peece . 
Lige wuz to keep the cow , paster and feed her , and generally take keer on her fer the milk she giv . 
Wall , finally Si cum hum , and he went to Lige's place one day and sed Wall , Lige , I've cum over to git my cow . 
And Lige sed Cum after your cow ? Wall , if you've got any cow round here I'll be durned if I know it . 
Si sed Wall , Lige , I left my cow with you . 
And Lige sed Wall , that's a year ago , and she's et her head off two or three times since then . 
So Si sed Wall , Lige , you've had her milk fer her keep . 
Si sed No , Lige , that wa'nt the bargin . 
But Lige sed Bargin or no bargin , I've got her , and seein' as how posession is 'bout nine points in the law , I'm goin' to keep her . 
So they went to law about it , and all Punkin Centre turned out to heer the trial . 
Wall we got on the other side , and I got on one of them tra la lu cars what goes down to Coney Iland . 
I give the car feller a dollar , and he put it in his pockit jist the same as if it belonged to him . 
Wall he sez you better go out and look at it . 
Wall I went out and looked at it , and that settled it . 
It sed This car goes to Coney Iland without change . 
Guess it did I'll be durned if I got any . 
Wall we got down thar , and I must say of all the pandemonium and hubbub I ever heered in my life , Coney Iland beats it all . 
Bout the fust thing I seen thar wuz a place what they called Shoot the Shoots . 
They yanked us up to the top of that troff and then turned us loose , and I jist felt as though the whole earth had run off and left us . 
Wall the water wasn't very deep and I jist started to wade out when along cum another boat and run over us , and under we went ker souse . 
Wall I managed to get out to the bank , and that female woman sed I was a base vilian to not rescue a lady from a watery grave . 
And I jist told her if she had kept her mouth shet she wouldn't hav swallered so much of the pond . 
Wall I went into one of 'em and sot down , and I guess if they hadn't of shet up the show I'd a bin sottin' thar yet . 
I purty near busted my buttins a laffin' . 
They had a lot of gals a dancin' some kind of a dance I don't know what they called it , but it sooted me fust rate . 
When I got home , the more I thought about it the more I made up my mind I'd learn that dance . 
We never had many theater doin's down our way . 
Ezra Hoskins he got one of the mules , and he tried to hitch it up one day Doctor says he thinks Ezra will be around in about six weeks . 
I traded one of the dogs to Ruben Hendricks fer a shot gun Rube cum over t'other day , borrowed the gun and shot the dog . 
I knowed durned well I wouldn't have time to wait and see the second part , so I got up and went out . 
Wall , them theater doin's jest put me in mind of somethin' what happened down hum on the last day of school . 
You see the school teacher got all the big boys and the big girls , and the boys they read essays and the girls recited poetry . 
One of the Skinner girls recited a piece that sooted me fust rate . 
I liked that thar wuz somethin' so touchin' about it . 
Then the school teacher he got all the girls in the 'stronomy class and he dressed them up to represent the different kinds of planits . 
And as usual he busted up the whole doin's . 
Uncle Josh at Delmonico's I USED to hear the summer boarders tell a whole lot about a place here in New York kept by Mr. Delmonico . 
Wall , one feller cum up to me and commenced talkin' some furrin language I didn't understand , somethin' about bon sour , mon sour . 
I jist made up my mind he wuz one of them bunco fellers , and I wouldn't talk to him . 
Wall , we all took a long breath , and got ready to see some as tall bargainin' as wuz ever done in Punkin Centre . 
Wall , Si , he sort er stood 'round , didn't say much , and Ezra got most uncommonly busy he had more business than a town marshal on circus day . 
Thought I'd cum over today , Ezra I've got some brooms I'd like to sell ye . 
Ezra sed Bring 'em in , Si , spring house cleanin' is comin' on and I'll most likely need right smart of brooms , so jist bring 'em in . 
Wall , after Si had the brooms all in , he sed Wall , thar they be , five dozen on 'em . 
Ezra sed Sure thar's five dozen ? Si sed Yas counted 'em on the wagon , counted 'em off agin , and counted 'em when I made 'em . 
And Ezra wall , it wan't his say . 
Suspicion Consists mainly of thinking what we would do if we wuz in the other feller's place . 
Uncle Josh Plays Golf WALL , about two weeks ago the boys sed to me , Uncle we'd like to hav you cum out and play a game of golf . 
I had on a pair of socks that had more different colors in 'em than in Joseph's coat . 
I calculate as how I'll git even with him 'bout Thanksgiving time . 
They called one a nibbler , and another a brassie , and a lot of other fool names I never heerd afore , and can't remember now . 
Then they brought out a little wooden ball 'bout as big as a hen's egg , and they stuck it up on a little hunk of mud . 
Then they told me to take one of them thar war clubs and stand alongside of the ball and hit it . 
I hit myself on the shin and on the pet corn at the same time , and them durned boys wuz jist a rollin' round on the ground and a hollerin' like Injuns . 
Wall , I begun to git madder 'n a wet hen , and I 'lowed I'd knock that durned little ball way over into the next county . 
Jim Lawson's Hogs WHEN it cum to raisin' hogs , I don't s'pose thar wuz ever enybody in Punkin Centre that had quite so much trouble as Jim Lawson . 
He kept givin' them hogs medecin' and feedin' of 'em everything he could think on , but it wan't no use every day or so one of 'em would lay down and die . 
Wall , the followin' winter Jim had his hogs all fat and ready fer markit , and he jist conclooded he'd drive 'em to Concord . 
Wall , he started out , and when he'd drov 'em two whole days he met old Jabez Whitaker . 
Jabe sed Whar you goin' with your hogs , Jim ? Jim sed Goin' to Concord , Jabez . 
Jabez sed Wall , now , I want to know . 
That's what cums from not readin' the papers . 
Why , Jim , they've got more hogs up Concord way than they know what to do with . 
Lige Willit took his hogs up thar , and Eben Sprosby took his'n , and Concord's jist chuck full of hogs , and so consequintly the markit's away down in Concord . 
But the paper sez it's good in Manchester , and you'd make money , Jim , by goin' thar . 
And Jim sed As near as he could figure it out from his present bearin's , he wuz most likely goin' to Manchester . 
And Caleb sed What fer ? Jim sed Didn't know exactly what all he wuz goin' fer , but if he ever got thar , he'd most likely sell his hogs . 
And Caleb sed Wall , your goin' to the wrong town . 
Manchester has got a quarantine agin' any more hogs comin' in , 'cos what hogs they is thar has all got colery , and you'd better go to Concord . 
Besides the paper says markit is purty well up in Concord . 
I never caught up to that blamed markit , but I had the society of the hogs fer two weeks . 
Uncle Josh and the Lightning Rod Agent WALL I s'pose I git buncode offener than any feller what ever lived in Punkin Centre . 
Wall , one day last summer I wuz a sottin' out on my back porch , when along cum one of them thar lightning rod agents . 
He sed , My dear sir , I am astonished at you . 
I've looked over your entire premises and I find you haven't got a lightning rod on any buildin' that you possess . 
Wall , I took hold of them handles and he turned on a crank , and that durned masheen jist made me dance all over the porch , and it wouldn't let go . 
Gee whiz , I felt as though I'd fell in a yeller jacket's nest , and about four thousand of 'em wuz a stingin' me all to onct . 
Wall , I told him I guessed he could put up a lightning rod or two , seein' as how I didn't hav any . 
Wall , I paid him fer what he had done , and thanked the Lord he hadn't done any more . 
Wall , he got me to sine a paper what sed he had done a good job , and he sed he had to show that to the company . 
I notis that the man who has a good strong pipe most usually rides in front . 
Wall , we thought that wuz purty good fer a Deacon . 
Ezra sed , Guess its 'bout shettin' up time . 
Jim Lawson's Hoss Trade SPEAKIN' of hoss tradin' , now Jim Lawson was calculated to be about the best hoss trader in Punkin Centre . 
Yes , Jim he could sot up on a fence , chew terbacker , whittle a stick , and jist about swap ye outen your eye teeth , if you'd listen to him . 
Yas , Jim wuz some punkins on a swap Jim 'd swap anything he had fer anything he didn't want , jist to be swappin' . 
I calculated as how I'd git a shotgun this fall and do right smart of hunting . 
So the Deacon sed , Wall , now , I want to know bring him over , Jim , I'd like to see him . 
Wall , Jim took the hoss over , and all Punkin Centre jest sort of held its breath to see how it would cum out . 
The Deacon sed , Why , what's the matter of your hoss , Jim , look what he be a doin' . 
Jim sed , 'Sh , Deacon , don't you see that rabbit over thar in the brush heap ? the old hoss is a settin' of him . 
Wall , the Deacon had a mighty fine animal , but he sed , I'll trade you , Jim . 
Paradox I can't exactly describe it , but it looks to me like a tramp who once told me how to be successful in life . 
A Meeting of the School Directors WE had bin havin' a good deal of argufyin' about the school house . 
Wall , we all met down at the school house thar wuz Deacon Witherspoon , Ezra Hoskins , Ruben Hendricks , Si Pettingill , old Jim Lawson and me . 
Before we commenced debatin' and argufyin' on the matter , Si Pettingill alowed he'd sing a song . 
Oh a frog went a courtin' and he did ride , With a sword and a pistol by his side , oohoo oohoo . 
He rode till he came to the mouse's door , oohoo oohoo , He rode till he came to the mouse's door , And there he knelt upon the floor , oohoo oohoo . 
He took Miss Mousey on his knee , oohoo oohoo . 
He took Miss Mousey on his knee , Said he , Missy Mouse will you marry me ? oohoo oohoo . 
Wall , we headed Si off right thar I guess if we hadn't he'd bin singin' about that frog and the mouse yet . 
Wall , before we knowed it , them two old cusses wuz at it . 
Wall , we've got the same old schoolhouse . 
Justice Those who hanker fer it would be generally better off if they didn't git it . 
Wall , I wuz jist flobgasted I jist stood thar lookin' at it . 
And all 'round the edge of the buildin' they had hoot owls sottin' , with electric lites in their ize , and thar wuz no end to the masheenery in that buildin' . 
If anyone hed ever told me thar wuz that much masheenery in the whole world durned if I'd a beleeved them biggest masheen I'd ever seen before wuz Si Pettingill's new thrashin' masheen . 
Wall , we never had but one paper down home at Punkin Centre we called it The Punkin Centre Weakly Bugle old Jim Lawson he wuz editor of it . 
You see Jim he wuz sort of a triflin' no 'count old cuss , so to keep him out of mischief we made him editor . 
Wall , Jim he had his place up over Ezra Hoskins' grossery store . 
He never got any money for the noospaper always got paid in produce , and Ezra's store wuz a mighty good place fer him to take in his subskriptions . 
You see 'bout that time Jim had got two advertisements one wuz fer Ruben Jackson's resterant and the other wuz the time table of the Punkin Centre and Paw Paw Valley Railroad . 
Wall , Jim he got to drinkin' the hard cider and settin' type at the same time , and when the paper cum out on Thursday it wuz wuth goin' miles to see . 
I believe that wuz the last issu of the Punkin Centre Weakly Bugle . 
Enthusiasm Sometimes inspired , sometimes acquired , sometimes the result of immediate surroundings , and sometimes the result of hard cider . 
Uncle Josh at a Camp Meeting WALL , we've jist bin havin' a camp meeting at Punkin Centre . 
Wall , we had right smart difficulty in gittin' a pulpit fixed up fer the ministers , but finally we sawed down a hemlock tree and used the stump fer a pulpit . 
Wall , some of the sarmons preached at that camp meetin' beat anything I ever heered in my life afore . 
If we read the scripters closely we observe our forefathers wuz all monopolists . 
Yea , verily , Lot's wife had a corner on the salt market . 
And while Pharoe's daughter was not in the milk business , yet we observe she took a great proffit out of the water yea , verrily . 
Most on us cum to the conclusion he wuz ridin' on a free pass . 
Chorus Standin' on the walls of Zion , Lookin' at my ship cum a sailln' ov er Standin' on the walls of Zion , To see my ship cum in . 
Jist about that time Ruben Hendricks skeered a skunk out of a holler log . 
Wall now I must say I didn't see much ball playin' of any kind . 
All I got to see wuz about fifty or sixty ambulances , and I think about that many surgons and phisicians . 
Wall , from what I could see of the game I calculate they needed all of them . 
I saw one feller and 'bout fifty others had him down , and it jist looked as though they wuz all trying to get a kick at him . 
They had a half back and a quarter back I suppose when they got through with that feller he wuz a hump back . 
Anyhow , if that's what they call foot ball playin' , your Uncle Josh don't want any foot ball in his'n . 
I never played but one game of ball in my life that I kin remember on , and don't believe that I ever will forgit that . 
I sed , Boys , I'm gittin' a little too old fer those kinds of passtimes , but I'll help you play one game , I'll be durned if I don't . 
You ought to seen the boys a gittin' out of the paster I would hav got out too , but I got stuck in the fence . 
Wall , you ought to hav seen that billy goat a gittin' me through the fence . 
He didn't git me all the way through , cos I wuz half way through when he got thar but he got the last half through . 
I didn't make any home run , but I wuz the only feller what had a score of the game I couldn't see the score , but I had it . 
Every time I'd go to sot down I knowed jist exactly how the game stood . 
The Punkin Centre and Paw Paw Valley Railroad WONDERS will never cease we've got a railroad in Punkin Centre now oh , we're gittin' to be right smart cityfied . 
I guess that's about the crookedest railroad that ever wuz bilt . 
I think that railroad runs across itself in one or two places it runs past one station three times . 
It's so durned crooked they hav to burn crooked wood in the ingine . 
Wall , the fust ingine they had on the Punkin Centre wuz a wonderful piece of masheenery . 
It had a five foot boiler and a seven foot whissel , and every time they blowed the whissel the durned old ingine would stop . 
Wall , we've got the railroad , and we're mighty proud of it but we had an awful time a gittin' it through . 
Ezra sed , Wall , now , let me see , is it a goin' jist the way you've got that instrument p'inted ? They sed , Yes , sir , jist thar . 
And Ezra sed , Wall , near as I kin calculate from that , I should jedge it wuz a goin' right through my barn . 
They sed , Yes , Mr. Hoskins , we're sorry , but the railroad is a goin' right through your barn . 
Love An indescribable longing , something that existed since Mother Eve was in the apple trust , and will exist until the end of time . 
Somethin' that no man has ever yet defined or ever will define . 
A somethin' that is past all description . 
Gosh durn it , an indescribable somethin' that has never yet bin described . 
Somebody sed Si Pettingill wuz tryin' to pick apples with a bisickle . 
Wall , all our boys and girls are ridin' bisickles now , and nothin' would do but I must learn how to ride one of them . 
Wall , I didn't think very favorably on it , but in order to keep peace in the family I told them I would learn . 
Wall , gee whilikee , by gum . 
I wish you had bin thar when I commenced . 
Wall , I sot down a minnit to think it over , and then the trouble commenced . 
Wall , I managed to hang on fer a spell , and then I went up in the air and cum down all over that bisickle . 
I fell on top of it and under it and on both sides of it I fell in front of the front wheel and behind the hind wheel at the same time . 
Durned if I know how I done it but I did . 
I run my foot through the spokes , and put about a hundred and fifty punctures in a hedge fence , and skeered a hoss and buggy clar off the highway . 
Wall , I'm through with it once is enough fer me . 
You kin all ride your durned old bisickles that want to , but fer my part I'd jist as soon stand up and walk as to sit down and walk . 
No more bisickles fer your Uncle Josh , not if he knows it , and your Uncle Josh sort of calculates as how he do . 
Notoriety A next door neighbor to glory , but another way of gittin' it . 
Wall now , some of them questions and answers in that Sunday school jist made me snicker right out loud . 
The Deacon sed , No , Henry , it wasn't Commodore Dewey what slew the Philistines , it wuz Sampson . 
Another little feller sed , No , Deacon , I think you've sort of got it mixed up he wasn't there Schley is the feller what done the job , at Santiague . 
The Deacon sed , Now , boys , you've bin readin' too much about them war doin's in the papers . 
Now what little boy can tell me what is the first commandment ? And Ezra Hoskins' boy sed , Remember the main . 
Gosh , I had to go right out of the meetin' house , whar I could have a good laugh . 
Wall , I wouldn't have bin down thar in the fust place , or the second place , fer that matter , if it hadn't bin fer old Jim Lawson . 
You see , Jim he's a peculiar old critter . 
He's got one eye out lost it lookin' fer a pension , I believe . 
Wall , Jim he cum over to my house and he sed , Josh , let's you and me go down to the baptizin' . 
Then Jim he sot right down in the meetin' house and went to sleep and then he went to snorin' you could hear him clar across a forty acre lot . 
Religion Any one man's opinion , but consists mainly of doing right . 
Reminiscence of My Railroad Days Dedicated to Engineer John Hoolihan , Pittsburg and Lake Erie Railroad , Pittsburg , Pa . 
WALL , John , I read your poetry , And laughed till I nearly cried , Seein' how you became an engineer , And got on the right hand side . 
But I wuz younger then , John , And I didn't care a cuss So I'd pull the throttle open And jist let her wheeze and fuss . 
The road that I wuz a runnin' on Wuz out in the woolly west Two streaks of rust and the right of way Wuz puttin' it at its best . 
So we sort of plugged along , John . 
And didn't put on any frills , Never thought of doin' anything But doublin' all the hills . 
I tell you those were rocky times , And we hadn't no air brake And fifteen miles an hour , John , Wuz durn good time to make . 
And thar wuz as good a lot of boys As you could meet with anywhere Rough and ready open up , And always on the square . 
And I'd like to see them all again , And grasp each honest hand But some of them , like me , have quit , Some have gone to another land . 
I have changed somewhat since then , John , Jist a little more steady grown But I often think of my railroad days As the happiest ones I've known . 
And , John , I often watch the train . 
As they go whizzing by As I think of Bill , or Jim , or Jack , Thar's a tear comes in my eye . 
Perhaps you'd like to know , John , Just why I quit the rail , And as some feller one time sed , Thereby hangs a tale . 
There's little more to say , John , They laid me up for repairs , But my fireman , poor fellow , Hadn't time to say his prayers . 
So now you have my story , John Still , you don't know how it feels To know you've got to plug around On a couple of flat wheels . 
But it doesn't bother me , John , Gosh , not fer a minnit I'm as happy as the day is long , And feel jist strictly in it . 
Glory Gittin' killed and not gittin' paid fer it . 
They cum paradin' into town , the bands a playin' and banners flying , and animals pokin' their heads out of the cages , and all sorts of jim cracks . 
Si Pettingill remarked , Guess the Deacon won't put blinders on himself when he gits thar . 
We noticed afterwards that the Deacon had a front seat whar he could see and hear purty well . 
Wall , I sed to Ezra Hoskins , Let's you and me go down to the cirkus , and Ezra sed , All right , Joshua . 
So we got on our store clothes , our new boots , and put some money in our pockits , and went down to the cirkus . 
Wall , I never seen any one in my life cut up more fool capers than Ezra did . 
I sed , Cum along you silly fool , that ain't Steve Jenkins . 
Ezra sed , Wall , now , guess I'd oughter know Steve Jenkins when I see him I jist about purty near raised Steve . 
Ezra sed he'd bet a peck of pippins that baboon belonged to Steve's family a long ways back . 
Wall then we went into whar they wuz havin' the cirkus doin's , and I guess us two old codgers jist about busted our buttins a laffin at that silly old clown . 
Wall , he cut up a lot of didos , then he went out and sot down right alongside of Aunt Nancy Smith and Nancy she'd like to had histeericks . 
She sed , You go 'way from me you painted critter , and that clown he jist up and yelled to beat thunder sed Nancy stuck a pin in him . 
Wall , everybody laffed , and Nancy she jist sot and giggled right out . 
So he got into the ring , and that mule he took after Ruben and chased him 'round that ring so fast Ruben could see himself goin' 'round t'other side of the ring . 
He wuz mighty glad to git out of thar . 
Then a gal cum out on hoss back and commenced ridin' around . 
Nancy Smith sed she wuz a brazen critter to cum out thar without clothes enough on her to dust a fiddle . 
But Deacon Witherspoon sed that wuz the art of 'questrinism we all alowed it , whatever he meant . 
He wuz about the silliest cuss I ever seen . 
Wall , I noticed a feller a rummagin' 'round among the benches as though he might a lost somethin' . 
Gosh , I jist fooled him out of his two dollars slicker 'n a whistle . 
I tell you cirkus day is a great time in Punkin Centre . 
Wall , now , that's purty good of ye , I'll be durned it it ain't . 
Yes , I guess I'll have to be goin' home now I've stayed here this time 'bout as long as I kin afford to . 
I'd like to have you all cum down to Punkin Centre and see MEE some time this summer , if you hadn't got nuthin' else to do . 
Lots of fun down thar on that farm of mine , huntin' , fishin' , and shootin' , and other things . 
Wall , I never shot but one bird in my life , and that wuz a squirrel yes , sir , a flyin' squirrel . 
Then one day I sent him out in the garden to plant some pertaters and some unyuns fer me , and it jist seemed like that feller didn't have good hoss sense . 
He planted them unyuns and pertaters right alongside of each other , and the unyuns got into the pertaters' eyes and they couldn't see to grow . 
Oh , yes , lots of fun down home onct in a while . 
I calculate I've got the funnyest lot of chickens you ever heerd tell on . 
I've got sixty old hens and they lay an egg every day but they don't lay any at nite , cos when nite comes every one of them is roosters . 
I had one old hen , she went into the woodshed and sot down on the ax and tried to hatch it . 
I had another one sottin' on a door knob , tryin' to hatch out a house and lot , but she didn't . 
Ridin' a route for the Wells Fargo folks May have made him stern and grim But thar wasn't a man that crossed the divide But 'ud swar by Yosemite Jim . 
He wa'n't one of the regular sort What you'd meet thar any day , But as near as the camp could figure it out , In a show down he'd likely stay . 
A shambling , awkward figure , Rawboned , tall and slim , And his schaps and togs in general Jist looked like they'd fell on him . 
I wuz somewhat of a tenderfoot then , Hadn't jist got the lay of the land Thar wuz a good many things in them thar parts As I couldn't quite understand . 
Our headquarters then wuz the valley camp , It wuz down by the redwood way , With Chaparel across the spur , 'Bout fifty miles away . 
We picked two passengers up at Big Pine , And while the broncos were changed that day I noticed them havin' a sneakin' chat With the greaser from down Monterey . 
And the greaser acted sort of peculiar , And the broncos commenced to neigh Wall , some thoughts went through my mind jist then I won't forgit till my dyin' day . 
In less time than it takes to tell it , We were into the Great White Death , With its millions of frozen snowflakes A takin' away our breath . 
And jist then somethin' happened , pard , The greaser from down Monterey Tried to sneak off with the specie box , Along with the passengers from Big Pine relay . 
All at once a figure on hossback Cum a whoopin' it down the trail , And bullets from out of a Winchester Commenced to fly like hail . 
The greaser and them two passengers Cashed in their chips to him , Fer the feller what wuz doin' the shootin' Wuz my friend , Yosemite Jim . 
Wall , we planted them thar together , When the cloud had passed away And all they've got fer a tombstone Is the mountains , dull and gray . 
So , pard , let's take one together , And I'll drink a toast to him , Fer though he wuz rough and ready , He'd a heart , YOSEMITE JIM . 
The Great White Death , so named by the Indians , occurs in the higher altitudes of the Rocky and Sierra Nevada Mountains . 
It might properly be termed a frozen fog . 
It has the effect of bringing on acute congestion of the lungs , from which few rarely recover . 
STEWART , formerly Overland Messenger for the Wells Fargo Express Company . 
He had on a biled collar that sort of put me in mind of the whitewashed fence 'round the fair grounds down hum . 
I'll bet if he'd ever sneeze it would cut his ears off . 
Wall , anyhow , he sed to that front boy , Show the gentleman to the proprietor's offis . 
So I sed , Do you want to buy any pertaters ? And he sed , No , sir , we don't buy pertaters here this a dry goods store . 
So I sed , Wall , don't want any cabbage , do ye ? And he sed , No , sir , this is a dry goods store . 
So I sed , Wall , now , I want to know do you need any onions ? And by chowder , he got madder 'n a wet hen . 
And he sed , Yes , sir , only dry goods . 
Wall , he told a feller to show me whar I could sell my produce , and I disposed of it at a good bargain . 
Who Marched in Sixty One CAL STEWART , New York , Memorial Day , . 
I'VE jist bin down at the corner , mother , To see the boys in line , Dressed up in their bran' new uniforms , I tell you they looked fine . 
And as they marched past whar I stood , To the rattle of the drum , It made me think of those other boys Who marched in sixty one . 
The old flag wuz proudly wavin' , mother , Jist as it did one day When you stood thar to say good bye , And watch me march away . 
So I stood thar and watched them Till the parade wuz nearly done , But thar wasn't many thar to day Who marched in sixty one . 
And thar wuz my old Captain And the Colonel side by side , And as they both saluted me I jist sot down and cried . 
And I thought about some other boys Whose work has long bin done Soon thar won't be any left at all Who marched in sixty one . 
I heered the band play Dixie , And my old heart swelled with pride , A thinkin' of the boys in gray Who marched on the other side . 
And when my time it comes , mother , The Lord's will it be done , I hope he'll take me to the boys Who marched in sixty one . 
