The Underdogs by Mariano Azuela Mariano Azuela , the first of the novelists of the Revolution , was born in Lagos de Moreno , Jalisco , Mexico , in . 
He studied medicine in Guadalajara and returned to Lagos in , where he began the practice of his profession . 
He began his writing career early in he published Impressions of a Stu dent in a weekly of Mexico City . 
This was followed by numer ous sketches and short stories , and in by his first novel , Andres Perez , maderista . 
After Madero's assassination , he joined the army of Pancho Villa as doctor , and his knowledge of the Revolution was acquired at firsthand . 
, which did not receive general recogni tion until , when it was hailed as the novel of the Revolution . 
But Azuela was fundamentally a moralist , and his disappoint ment with the Revolution soon began to manifest itself . 
He had fought for a better Mexico but he saw that while the Revolution had corrected certain injustices , it had given rise to others equally deplorable . 
The Underdogs by Mariano Azuela A Novel of the Mexican Revolution Translated by E. Munguia , Jr . 
Original Title LOS DE ABAJO PART ONE How beautiful the revolution ! Even in its most barbarous aspect it is beautiful , Solis said with deep feeling . 
I That's no animal , I tell you ! Listen to the dog bark ing ! It must be a human being . 
The woman stared into the darkness of the sierra . 
What if they're soldiers ? said a man , who sat In dian fashion , eating , a coarse earthenware plate in his right hand , three folded tortillas in the other . 
The woman made no answer , all her senses directed outside the hut . 
The beat of horses' hoofs rang in the quarry nearby . 
The dog barked again , louder and more angrily . 
Well , Demetrio , I think you had better hide , all the same . 
Stolidly , the man finished eating next he reached for a cantaro and gulped down the water in it then he stood up . 
Your rifle is under the mat , she whispered . 
A tallow candle illumined the small room . 
In one cor ner stood a plow , a yoke , a goad , and other agricultural implements . 
Ropes hung from the roof , securing an old adobe mold , used as a bed on it a child slept , covered with gray rags . 
Demetrio buckled his cartridge belt about his waist and picked up his rifle . 
He was tall and well built , with a sanguine face and beardless chin he wore shirt and trousers of white cloth , a broad Mexican hat and leather sandals . 
With slow , measured step , he left the room , vanishing into the impenetrable darkness of the night . 
The dog , excited to the point of madness , had jumped over the corral fence . 
Suddenly a shot rang out . 
The dog moaned , then barked no more . 
Some men on horseback rode up , shout ing and sweating two of them dismounted , while the other hung back to watch the horses . 
The first speaker wore chevrons on his arm , the other red stripes on his shoulders . 
Whose place is this , old woman ? Or is it an empty house ? God's truth , which is it ? Of course it's not empty . 
Tell me what they call this ranch , woman ? the ser geant asked . 
Limon , the woman replied curtly , carrying wood to the fire and fanning the coals . 
So we're in Limon , eh , the famous Demetrio Macias' country , eh ? Do you hear that , Lieutenant ? We're in Limon . 
Limon ? What the hell do I care ? If I'm bound for hell , Sergeant , I might as well go there now . 
Bring me a bottle of tequila , Sergeant I've decided to spend the night with this charming lady . 
What's that ? The colonel ? . 
Why in God's name talk about the colonel now ? He can go straight to hell , for all I care . 
And if he doesn't like it , it's all right with me . 
Come on , Sergeant , tell the corporal outside to unsaddle the horses and feed them . 
I'll stay here all night . 
Here , my girl , you let the sergeant fry the eggs and warm up the tortillas you come here to me . 
See this wallet full of nice new bills ? They're all for you , darling . 
Sure , I want you to have them . 
Figure it out for yourself . 
I'm drunk , see I've a bit of a load on and that's why I'm kind of hoarse , you might call it . 
I left half my gullet down Guadalajara way , and I've been spitting the other half out all the way up here . 
You won't , eh ? Aw , come on ! Afraid of your er hus band . 
or whatever he is , huh ? Well , if he's skulking in some hole , you tell him to come out . 
What the hell do I care ? I'm not scared of rats , see ! Suddenly a white shadow loomed on the threshold . 
Demetrio Macias ! the sergeant cried as he stepped back in terror . 
The lieutenant stood up , silent , cold and motionless as a statue . 
Shoot them ! the woman croaked . 
Oh , come , you'll surely spare us ! I didn't know you were there . 
I'll always stand up for a brave man . 
Demetrio stood his ground , looking them up and down , an insolent and disdainful smile wrinkling his face . 
Yes , I not only respect brave men , but I like them . 
I'm proud and happy to call them friends . 
Here's my hand on it friend to friend . 
But look here , I ask you , what in God's name can a man do when he's poor and has a wife to support and kids ? . 
Holy Virgin , what agony ! I suffered as though it was you they'd shot . 
You go to father's house , quick ! Demetrio ordered . 
She wanted to hold him in her arms she entreated , she wept . 
But he pushed away from her gently and , in a sullen voice , said , I've an idea the whole lot of them are com ing . 
Why didn't you kill 'em ? Their hour hasn't struck yet . 
They went out together she bore the child in her arms . 
At the door , they separated , moving off in different directions . 
The moon peopled the mountain with vague shadows . 
As he advanced at every turn of his way Demetrio could see the poignant , sharp silhouette of a woman pushing forward painfully , bearing a child in her arms . 
When , after many hours of climbing , he gazed back , huge flames shot up from the depths of the canyon by the river . 
It was his house , blazing . 
II Everything was still swathed in shadows as Demetrio Macias began his descent to the bottom of the ravine . 
Between rocks striped with huge eroded cracks , and a squarely cut wall , with the river flowing below , a narrow ledge along the steep incline served as a mountain trail . 
They'll surely find me now and track us down like dogs , he mused . 
It's a good thing they know nothing about the trails and paths up here . 
But if they got someone from Moyahua to guide them . 
He left the sinister thought unfinished . 
All the men from Limon or Santa Rosa or the other nearby ranches are on our side they wouldn't try to trail us . 
At dawn , he approached the pit of the canyon . 
Here , he lay on the rocks and fell asleep . 
The river crept along , murmuring as the waters rose and fell in small cascades . 
Birds sang lyrically from their hiding among the pitaya trees . 
The monotonous , eternal drone of insects filled the rocky solitude with mystery . 
Demetrio awoke with a start . 
When he reached the summit , he glanced down to see the sun steeping the valley in a lake of gold . 
Near the canyon , enormous rocks loomed protrudent , like fantastic Negro skulls . 
The pitaya trees rose tenuous , tall , like the tapering , gnarled fingers of a giant other trees of all sorts bowed their crests toward the pit of the abyss . 
Demetrio stopped at the summit . 
From across the hill close by , three sharp whistles answered his signal . 
They rushed forward to greet Demetrio , and stopped be fore him , askance . 
They've burnt my house , he said . 
A murmur of oaths , imprecations , and threats rose among them . 
Demetrio let their anger run its course . 
Then he drew a bottle from under his shirt and took a deep swig then he wiped the neck of the bottle with the back of his hand and passed it around . 
It passed from mouth to mouth not a drop was left . 
The men passed their tongues greedily over their lips to recapture the tang of the liq uor . 
Glory be to God and by His Will , said Demetrio , tonight or tomorrow at the latest we'll meet the Federals . 
Of course , we can't ten how strong they are , said Demetrio as his glance traveled over their faces in scrutiny . 
Do you remember Medina ? Out there at Hos totipaquillo , he only had a half a dozen men with knives that they sharpened on a grindstone . 
Well , he held back the soldiers and the police , didn't he ? And he beat them , too . 
We're every bit as good as Medina's crowd ! said a tall , broad shouldered man with a black beard and bushy eyebrows . 
Christ ! Bullets are marbles to me ! And I dare you to contradict me ! Viva Anastasio Montanez , shouted Manteca . 
All right , all right ! said Montanez . 
Viva Demetrio Macias , our chief , and long life to God in His heaven and to the Virgin Mary . 
Viva Demetrio Macias , they all shouted . 
They gathered dry brush and wood , built a fire and placed chunks of fresh meat upon the burning coals . 
As the blaze rose , they collected about the fire , sat down In dian fashion and inhaled the odor of the meat as it twist ed on the crackling fire . 
The rays of the sun , falling about them , cast a golden radiance over the bloody hide of a calf , lying on the ground nearby . 
The meat dangled from a rope fastened to a huizache tree , to dry in the sun and wind . 
Well , men , Demetrio said , you know we've only twenty rifles , besides my thirty thirty . 
If there are just a few of them , we'll shoot until there's not a live man left . 
If there's a lot of 'em , we can give 'em a good scare , any how . 
He undid a rag belt about his waist , loosened a knot in it and offered the contents to his companions . 
A murmur of approbation rose among them as each took a few grains between the tips of his fingers . 
They ate voraciously then , glutted , lay down on the ground , facing the sky . 
They sang monotonous , sad songs , uttering a strident shout after each stanza . 
Time , boys ! Look around and see what's what ! Anastasio Montanez said , examining his rifle springs . 
Yet he was previous an hour or more elapsed with no sound or stir save the song of the locust in the brush or the frog stirring in his mudhole . 
As they strained their eyes , they could distinguish others behind him , ten , twenty , a hundred . 
Then , suddenly , darkness swallowed them up . 
Only when the sun rose , Demetrio's band realized that the canyon was alive with men , midgets seated on miniature horses . 
Look at 'em , will you ? said Pancracio . 
Pretty , ain't they ? Come on , boys , let's go and roll marbles with 'em . 
Now the moving dwarf figures were lost in the dense chaparral , now they reappeared , stark and black against the ocher . 
The voices of officers , as they gave orders , and soldiers , marching at ease , were clearly audible . 
Demetrio raised his hand the locks of rifles clicked . 
Fire ! he cried tensely . 
Twenty one men shot as one twenty one soldiers fell off their horses . 
Caught by surprise , the column halted , etched like bas reliefs in stone against the rocks . 
Another volley and a score of soldiers hurtled down from rock to rock . 
Look , Pancracio , said Meco , completely black save for his eyes and teeth . 
This is for that man who passes that tree . 
I'll get the son of a . 
Take that ! Right in the head . 
You saw it , didn't you , mate ? Now , this is for the fellow on the roan horse . 
Down you come , you shave headed bastard ! I'll give that lad on the trail's edge a shower of lead . 
If you don't hit the river , I'm a liar ! Now look at him ! Oh , come on , Anastasio don't be cruel lend me your rifle . 
Come along , one shot , just one ! Manteca and Quail , unarmed , begged for a gun as a boon , imploring permission to fire at least a shot apiece . 
Suddenly , Quail stood up , naked , holding his trousers to windward as though he were a bullfighter flaunting a red cape , and the soldiers below the bull . 
A shower of shots peppered upon Demetrio's men . 
God ! That was like a hornet's nest buzzing over head , said Anastasio Montanez , lying flat on the ground without daring to wink an eye . 
Here , Quail , you son of a bitch , you stay where I told you , roared Demetrio . 
They crawled to take new positions . 
The soldiers , con gratulating themselves on their successes , ceased firing when another volley roused them . 
More coming ! they shouted . 
Some , panic stricken , turned their horses back others , abandoning their mounts , began to climb up the moun tain and seek shelter behind the rocks . 
The officers had to shoot at them to enforce discipline . 
Down there , down there ! said Demetrio as he leveled his rifle at the translucent thread of the river . 
A soldier fell into the water at each shot , invariably a soldier bit the dust . 
Only Demetrio was shooting in that direction for every soldier killed , ten or twenty of them , intact , climbed afresh on the other side . 
Get those coming up from under ! Los de Abajo ! Get the underdogs ! be screamed . 
Now his fellows were exchanging rifles , laughing and making wagers on their marksmanship . 
My leather belt if I miss that head there , on the black horse ! Lend me your rifle , Meco . 
Twenty Mauser cartridges and a half yard of sausage if you let me spill that lad riding the bay mare . 
All right ! Watch me . 
There ! See him jump ! Like a bloody deer . 
Don't run , you half breeds . 
Come along with you ! Come and meet Father Demetrio ! Now it was Demetrio's men who screamed insults . 
Manteca , his smooth face swollen in exertion , yelled his lungs out . 
Pancracio roared , the veins and muscles in his neck dilated , his murderous eyes narrowed to two evil slits . 
Demetrio fired shot after shot , constantly warning his men of impending danger , but they took no heed until they felt the bullets spattering them from one side . 
Goddamn their souls , they've branded me ! Demetrio cried , his teeth flashing . 
Then , very swiftly , he slid down a gully and was lost . 
IV Two men were missing , Serapio the candymaker , and Antonio , who played the cymbals in the Juchipila band . 
Maybe they'll join us further on , said Demetrio . 
The return journey proved moody . 
Anastasio Montanez alone preserved his equanimity , a kindly expression play ing in his sleepy eyes and on his bearded face . 
Pancracio's harsh , gorillalike profile retained its repulsive immuta bility . 
The soldiers had retreated Demetrio began the search for the soldiers' horses which had been hidden in the sierra . 
Suddenly Quail , who had been walking ahead , shrieked . 
He had caught sight of his companions swinging from the branches of a mesquite . 
There could be no doubt of their identity Serapio and Antonio they certainly were . 
Our Father Who art in heaven , hallowed be Thy name . 
Amen , his men answered in low tones , their heads bowed , their hats upon their breasts . 
Then , hurriedly , they took the Juchipila canyon north ward , without halting to rest until nightfall . 
On the morrow , Demetrio complained bitterly of his wound he could no longer ride on horseback . 
They were forced to carry him the rest of the way on a makeshift stretcher of leaves and branches . 
He's bleeding frightfully , said Anastasio Montanez , tearing off one of his shirt sleeves and tying it tightly about Demetrio's thigh , a little above the wound . 
That's good , said Venancio . 
It'll keep him from bleeding and stop the pain . 
In his native town , he pulled teeth and fulfilled the office of medicine man . 
He was accorded an unimpeachable authority because he had read The Wandering Jew and one or two other books . 
They called him Doctor and since he was conceited about his knowledge , he employed very few words . 
They took turns , carrying the stretcher in relays of four over the bare stony mesa and up the steep passes . 
They stopped to rest at every small hut they found hidden between the steep , jagged rocks . 
Thank God , a kind soul and tortillas full of beans and chili are never lacking , Anastasio Montanez said with a triumphant belch . 
The mountaineers would shake calloused hands with the travelers , saying God's blessing on you ! He will find a way to help you all , never fear . 
We're going ourselves , starting tomorrow morning . 
We're dodging the draft , with those damned Government people who've declared war to the death on us , on all the poor . 
Demetrio ordered them to carry him there . 
These proved to be a few wretched straw huts , dis persed all over the river slopes , between rows of young sprouting corn and beans . 
They lowered the stretcher and Demetrio , in a weak voice , asked for a glass of water . 
A child with a large belly and glossy dark skin came close to the stretcher to inspect the wounded man . 
An old woman followed , and soon all of them drew about Demetrio in a circle . 
A girl sympathizing with him in his plight brought a jicara of bluish water . 
With hands shaking , Demetrio took it up and drank greedily . 
Will you have some more ? He raised his eyes and glanced at the girl , whose features were common but whose voice had a note of kindness in it . 
Wiping his sweating brow with the back of his palm and turning on one side , he gasped May God reward you . 
Then his whole body shook , making the leaves of the stretcher rustle . 
Fever possessed him he fainted . 
It's a damp night and that's terrible for the fever , said Remigia , an old wrinkled barefooted woman , wear ing a cloth rag for a blouse . 
She invited them to move Demetrio into her hut . 
Pancracio , Anastasio Montanez , and Quail lay down beside the stretcher like faithful dogs , watchful of their master's wishes . 
The rest scattered about in search of food . 
Remigia offered them all she had , chili and tortillas . 
Imagine ! I had eggs , chickens , even a goat and her kid , but those damn soldiers wiped me out clean . 
Montanez , did you hear ? A shot , Montanez ! Hey , Montanez , get up ! He shook him vigorously until Montanez ceased snoring and in turn woke up . 
What in the name of . 
Now you're at it again , damn it . 
I tell you there aren't ghosts any more , An astasio muttered out of a half sleep . 
I heard a shot , Montanez ! Go back to sleep , Quail , or I'll bust your nose . 
Hell , Anastasio I tell you it's no nightmare . 
I've for gotten those fellows they hung , honest . 
It's a shot , I tell you . 
I heard it all right . 
A shot , you say ? All right , then , hand me my gun . 
Anastasio Montanez rubbed his eyes , stretched out his arms and legs , and stood up lazily . 
The sky was solid with stars the moon rose like a sharp scythe . 
You cursed fool , you've maimed me for life . 
A voice rang clearly through the darkness . 
Who goes there ? The shout echoed from rock to rock , through mound and over hollow , until it spent itself at the far , silent reaches of the night . 
Who goes there ? Anastasio repeated his challenge louder , pulling back the lock of his Mauser . 
One of Demetrio's men , came the answer . 
It's Pancracio , Quail cried joyfully . 
Relieved , he rested the butt of his rifle on the ground . 
Pancracio appeared , holding a young man by the arms the newcomer was covered with dust from his felt hat to his coarse shoes . 
A fresh bloodstain lay on his trousers close to the heel . 
Who's this tenderfoot ? Anastasio demanded . 
You know I'm on guard around here . 
Smiling , Pancracio turned his beardless head around as if soliciting applause . 
Then the stranger spoke Who's your commander ? Proudly , Anastasio raised his head , went up to him and looked him in the face . 
The stranger lowered his tone considerably . 
Well , I'm a revolutionist , too , you know . 
So he's a Government soldier , eh ? A murmur of in credulity rose from the men , interrupting the stranger . 
So that's what you are , eh ? One of those damn half breeds , said Anastasio Montanez . 
Why the hell didn't you pump your lead in his brain , Pancracio ? What's he talking about , anyhow ? I can't make head nor tail of it . 
He says he wants to see Demetrio and that he's got plenty to say to him . 
But that's all right we've got plenty of time to do anything we damn well please so long as you're in no hurry , that's all , said Pancracio , loading his gun . 
What kind of beasts are you ? the prisoner cried . 
He could say no more Anastasio's fist , crashing down upon his face , sent his head turning on his neck , covered with blood . 
Shoot the half breed ! Hang him ! Bum him alive he's a lousy Federal . 
In great excitement , they yelled and shrieked and were about to fire at the prisoner . 
Sssh ! Shut up ! I think Demetrio's talking now , An astasio said , striving to quiet them . 
Indeed , Demetrio , having ascertained the cause of the turmoil , ordered them to bring the prisoner before him . 
It's positively infamous , senor look , Luis Cervantes said , pointing to the bloodstains on his trousers and to his bleeding face . 
All right , all right . 
But who in hell are you ? That's what I want to know , Demetrio said . 
My name is Luis Cervantes , sir . 
I'm a medical stu dent and a journalist . 
I wrote a piece in favor of the revolution , you see as a result , they persecuted me , caught me , and finally landed me in the barracks . 
His ensuing narrative was couched in terms of such detail and expressed in terms so melodramatic that it drew guffaws of mirth from Pancracio and Manteca . 
All I've tried to do is to make myself clear on this point . 
I want you to be convinced that I am truly one of your coreligionists . 
What's that ? What did you say ? Car . 
what ? Demetrio asked , bringing his ear close to Cervantes . 
Demetrio smiled What are we fighting for ? That's what I'd like to know . 
In his disconcertment , Luis Cervantes could find no reply . 
Look at that mug , look at 'im ! Why waste any time , Demetrio ? Let's shoot him , Pancracio urged impatiently . 
Demetrio laid a hand on his hair which covered his ears , and stretching himself out for a long time , seemed to be lost in thought . 
Having found no solution , he said Get out , all of you it's aching again . 
Anastasio put out the candle . 
Lock him up in the corral and let Pan cracio and Manteca watch him . 
VI Through the shadows of the starry night , Luis Cer vantes had not yet managed to detect the exact shape of the objects about him . 
Seeking the most suitable resting place , he laid his weary bones down on a fresh pile of manure under the blurred mass of a huizache tree . 
He lay down , more exhausted than resigned , and closed his eyes , resolutely determined to sleep until his fierce keepers or the morning sun , burning his ears , awakened him . 
Something vaguely like warmth at his side , then a tired hoarse breath , made him shudder . 
He opened his eyes and feeling about him with his hands , he sensed the coarse hairs of a large pig which , resenting the presence of a neighbor , began to grunt . 
A week later , after his first skirmish against the rebels , he under stood every rule of the game . 
It was all crystal clear . 
The sun was setting , the mountain became peopled with vague and restless shadows , darkness scaled the ram parts of the mountain hastily . 
The rest of the officers , moreover , burst into hilarious mirth and holding their sides with laughter begged the colonel to pardon the deserter . 
The colonel , therefore , instead of sentencing him to be shot , kicked his buttocks roundly for him and assigned him to kitchen police . 
This signal insult was destined to bear poisonous fruit . 
Luis Cervantes determined to play turncoat in deed , mentally , he had already changed sides . 
He be came intimate with the humblest private . 
More , even , he shed tears of compassion over a dead mule which fell , load and all , after a terribly long journey . 
From then on , Luis Cervantes' prestige with the sol diers increased . 
Some actually dared to make confes sions . 
One among them , conspicuous for his sobriety and silence , told him I'm a carpenter by trade , you know . 
I had a mother , an old woman nailed to her chair for ten years by rheumatism . 
In the middle of the night , they pulled me out of my house three damn policemen I woke up a soldier twenty five miles away from my hometown . 
A month ago our company passed by there again . 
My mother was already under the sod ! . 
So there's nothing left for me in this wide world no one misses me now , you see . 
But , by God , I'm damned if I'll use these cartridges they make us carry , against the enemy . 
, then I'll join Villa's men and I swear by the holy soul of my old mother , that I'll make every one of these Government people pay , by God I will . 
the men on the other side . 
you know , the other side . 
they ride the best horses up north there , and all over , see ? And they harness their mounts with pure hammered silver . 
But us ? Oh hell , we've got to ride plugs , that's all , and not one of them good enough to stagger round a water well . 
Even a top sergeant candidly confessed , Yes , I enlisted all right . 
But , by God , I missed the right side by a long shot . 
The roosters crowed in the huts . 
The chickens perched in the huizache began to stretch their wings , shake their feathers , and fly down to the ground . 
Luis Cervantes saw his guards lying on top of a dung heap , snoring . 
In his imagination , he reviewed the fea tures of last night's men . 
One , Pancracio , was pock marked , blotchy , unshaven his chin protruded , his forehead receded obliquely his ears formed one solid piece with head and neck a horrible man . 
Once more , Luis Cervantes felt his flesh quiver . 
VII Still drowsy , Demetrio ran his hand through his ruf fled hair , which hung over his moist forehead , pushed it back over his ears , and opened his eyes . 
Distinctly he heard the woman's melodious voice which he had already sensed in his dream . 
He walked toward the door . 
It was broad daylight the rays of sunlight filtered through the thatch of the hut . 
The girl who had offered him water the day before , the girl of whom he had dreamed all night long , now came forward , kindly and eager as ever . 
This time she carried a pitcher of milk brimming over with foam . 
It's goat's milk , but fine just the same . 
Come on now taste it . 
Demetrio smiled gratefully , straightened up , grasped the clay pitcher , and proceeded to drink the milk in little gulps , without removing his eyes from the girl . 
She grew self conscious , lowered her eyes . 
What's your name ? he asked . 
Camilla Ah , there's a lovely name ! And the girl that bears it , lovelier still ! Camilla blushed . 
As he sought to seize her wrist , she grew frightened , and Picking up the empty pitcher , flew out the door . 
No , Demetrio , Anastasio Montanez commented gravely , you've got to break them in first . 
Hmm ! It's a hell of a lot of scars the women have left on my body . 
Yes , my friend , I've a heap of experience along that line . 
I feet all right now , Compadre . 
Demetrio pretended he had not heard him . 
I had fever , and I sweated like a horse all night , but I feel quite fresh today . 
The thing that's irking me hellishly is that Goddamn wound . 
Can Venancio to look after me . 
What are we going to do with the tenderfoot we caught last night ? Pancracio asked . 
That's right I was forgetting all about him . 
As usual , Demetrio hesitated a while before he reached a decision . 
Here , Quail , come here . 
Listen you go and find out where's the nearest church around here . 
I know there's one about six miles away . 
Go and steal a priest's robe and bring it back . 
What's the idea ? asked Pancracio in surprise . 
Well , I'll soon find out if this tenderfoot came here to murder me . 
I'll tell him he's to be shot , see , and Quail will put on the priest's robes , say that he's a priest and hear his confession . 
If he's got anything up his sleeve , he'll come out with it , and then I'll shoot him . 
Otherwise I'll let him go . 
God , there's a roundabout way to tackle the ques tion . 
If I were you , I'd just shoot him and let it go at that , said Pancracio contemptuously . 
That night Quail returned with the priest's robes Demetrio ordered the prisoner to be led in . 
Luis Cer vantes had not eaten or slept for two days , there were deep black circles under his eyes his face was deathly pale , his lips dry and colorless . 
He spoke awkwardly , slowly You can do as you please with me . 
I am convinced I was wrong to come looking for you . 
There was a prolonged silence . 
Then I thought that you would welcome a man who comes to offer his help , with open arms , even though his help was quite worthless . 
After all , you might perhaps have found some use for it . 
Well , what the hell is the gist of all this palaver ? I'll be damned if I can stomach a sermon , Pancracio broke in . 
I wanted to fight for the sacred cause of the op pressed , but you don't understand . 
Very well , then , you can do as you please with me ! All I'm going to do now is to put this rope around your neck . 
Look what a pretty white neck you've got . 
Yes , I know what brought you here , Demetrio in terrupted dryly , scratching his head . 
I'm going to have you shot ! Then , looking at Anastasio he said Take him away . 
if he wants to confess , bring the priest to him . 
Impassive as ever , Anastasio took the prisoner gently by the arm . 
Come along this way , Tenderfoot . 
They all laughed uproariously , when a few minutes later , Quail appeared in priestly robes . 
By God , this tenderfoot certainly talks his head off , Quail said . 
You know , I've a notion he was having a bit of a laugh on me when I started asking him ques tions . 
But didn't he have anything to say ? Nothing , save what he said last night . 
I've a hunch he didn't come here to shoot you at all , Compadre , said Anastasio . 
Give him something to eat and guard him . 
VIII On the morrow , Luis Cervantes was barely able to get up . 
His injured leg trailing behind him , he shuffled from hut to hut in search of a little alcohol , a kettle of boiled water and some rags . 
With unfailing kindness , Ca milla provided him with all that he wanted . 
And why did you pour on alcohol ? I just knew alcohol was good to rub on when you had a bellyache , but . 
Oh , stop fooling me . 
the idea little animals alive in the water unless you boil it ! Ugh ! Well , I can't see nothing in it myself . 
Camilla continued to cross question him with such fa miliarity that she suddenly found herself addressing him intimately , in the singular tu . 
Absorbed in his own thoughts , Luis Cervantes had ceased listening to her . 
Tomorrow would there fore belong wholly to them . 
A man must consequently be on their side , only on their side . 
No , he said to himself almost aloud , I don't think I've made a mistake this time . 
What did you say ? Camilla asked . 
I thought you'd lost your tongue . 
Then he might fall for you . 
There's some gentlemen here , come to eat . 
Her neighbor's eyes blinked as the bright sunlight poured into the shadowy hut , darker than usual , even , as dense clouds of smoke rose from the stove . 
She sat down beside Remigia Indian fashion , and , glancing furtively toward where Demetrio rested , asked in a low voice How's the patient , better ? That's fine . 
Oh , how young he is ! But he's still pale , don't you think ? So the wound's not closed up yet . 
Oh , I don't know they might not like it , she an swered , breathing heavily as she continued her rude task . 
Remigia lowered her eyes to indicate that Demetrio was sleeping . 
Oh , I didn't see you when I came in . 
And you're here too , Panchita ? Well , how are you ? Good morning to you , Fortunata . 
How are you ? All right . 
But Maria Antonia's got the curse today and her belly's aching something fierce . 
She sat Indian fashion , with bent knees , huddling hip to hip against Panchita . 
I've got no laurel leaves , honey , Remigia answered , pausing a moment in her work to push a mop of hair back from over her sweaty forehead . 
Then , plunging her two hands into a mass of corn , she removed a hand ful of it dripping with muddy yellowish water . 
I've none at all you'd better go to Dolores , she's always got herbs , you know . 
But Dolores went to Cofradia last night . 
I don't know , but they say they came to fetch her to help Uncle Matias' girl who's big with child . 
You don't say , Panchita ? The three old women came together forming an ani mated group , and speaking in low tones , began to gossip with great gusto . 
Certainly , I swear it , by God up there in heaven . 
Well , well , I was the first one to say that Marcelina was big with child , wasn't I ? But of course no one would believe me . 
It was them damned soldiers , that's who done it . 
God , what a bloody mess ! Another unhappy woman ! The cackle of the old hens finally awakened Demetrio . 
They had already placed a loaf of bread soaked in alcohol on his stomach although when this was removed he began to be cooler , he felt that he was still feverish inside . 
Come on , Remigia , you do it , you certainly know how , the women said . 
Out of a reed sheath , Remigia pulled a long and curved knife which served to cut cactus fruit . 
She took the pigeon in one hand , turned it over , its breast up ward , and with the skill of a surgeon , ripped it in two with a single thrust . 
You'll see you'll feel much better now . 
Obeying Remigia's instructions , Demetrio lay motion less , crumpled up on one side . 
Then Fortunata gave vent to her sorrows . 
This had broken her heart , Yes , and driven her all but crazy . 
As she began , Anastasio Montanez and Quail lay on the floor near the stretcher , their mouths gaping , all ears to the story . 
But Fortunata's wealth of detail by the time she had told half of it bored Quail and he left the hut to scratch himself out in the sun . 
Anastasio Mon tanez was snoring like a trombone . 
X Why don't you call in the tenderfoot to treat you , Compadre Demetrio , Anastasio Montanez asked his chief , who had been complaining daily of chills and fever . 
You ought to see him no one has laid a hand to him but himself , and now he's so fit that he doesn't limp a step . 
But Venancio , standing by with his tins of lard and his dirty string rags ready , protested All right , if anybody lays a hand on Demetrio , I won't be responsible . 
Nonsense ! Rot ! What kind of doctor do you think you are ? You're no doctor at all . 
I'll wager you've al ready forgotten why you ever joined us , said Quail . 
Well , I remember why you joined us , Quail , Ve nancio replied angrily . 
Perhaps you'll deny it was be cause you had stolen a watch and some diamond rings . 
Ha , ha , ha ! That's rich ! But you're worse , my lad you ran away from your hometown because you poi soned your sweetheart . 
You're a Goddamned liar ! Yes you did ! And don't try and deny it ! You fed her Spanish fly and . 
Venancio's shout of protest was drowned out in the loud laughter of the others . 
Demetrio , looking pale and sallow , motioned for silence . 
Then , plaintively That'll do . 
He uncovered Demetrio's wound , examined it carefully , and shook his head . 
The ligaments had made a furrow in the skin . 
The leg , badly swollen , seemed about to burst . 
At every move he made , Demetrio stifled a moan . 
Luis Cervantes cut the liga ments , soaked the wound in water , covered the leg with large clean rags and bound it up . 
Demetrio was able to sleep all afternoon and all night . 
On the morrow he woke up happy . 
That tenderfoot has the softest hand in the world ! he said . 
Quickly Venancio cut in All right just as you say . 
But don't forget that ten derfoots are like moisture , they seep in everywhere . 
It's the tenderfoots who stopped us reaping the harvest of the revolution . 
Since Demetrio believed in the barber's knowledge implicitly , when Luis Cervantes came to treat him on the next day he said Look here , do your best , see . 
I want to recover soon and then you can go home or anywhere else you damn well please . 
Discreetly , Luis Cervantes made no reply . 
A week , ten days , a fortnight elapsed . 
The Federal troops seemed to have vanished . 
There was an abun dance of corn and beans , too , in the neighboring ranches . 
The people hated the Government so bitterly that they were overjoyed to furnish assistance to the rebels . 
De metrio's men , therefore , were peacefully waiting for the complete recovery of their chief . 
Day after day , Luis Cervantes remained humble and silent . 
By God , I actually believe you're in love , De metrio said jokingly one morning after the daily treat ment . 
He had begun to like this tenderfoot . 
From then on , Demetrio began gradually to show an increasing in terest in Cervantes' comfort . 
Look here , Tenderfoot , they're all good boys , really , Demetrio answered . 
You've got to know how to handle them , that's all . 
You mark my words from tomorrow on , there won't be a thing you'll lack . 
In effect , things began to change that very afternoon . 
Some of them , lulled by the narrator's mellifluous voice , began to snore . 
That's easy to remedy , I'm sure . 
Once our cause is victorious , you can easily get a degree . 
A matter of two or three weeks' assistant's work at some hospital and a letter of recommendation from our chief and you'll be a full fledged doctor , all right . 
The thing is child's play . 
From that night onward Venancio , unlike the others , ceased calling him Tenderfoot . 
He addressed him as Louie . 
It was Louie , this , and Louie , that , right and left , all the time . 
For days the girl had been restless . 
Her coy ways and her reticence had finally annoyed the man stopping sud denly , he stood up and eyeing her squarely All right . 
What do you want to tell me ? Camilla's tongue clove to her mouth , heavy and damp as a rag she could not utter a word . 
A blush suffused her cheeks , turning them red as apples she shrugged her shoulders and bowed her head , pressing her chin against her naked breast . 
Luis Cervantes frowned and with obvious disgust con tinued to care for his foot , completely ignoring her as he worked . 
When he had finished , Camilla had vanished . 
For three days she was nowhere to be found . 
It was always her mother , Agapita , who answered Cervantes' call , and boiled the water for him and gave him rags . 
He was careful to avoid questioning her . 
Three days later , Camilla reappeared , more coy and eager than ever . 
The more distrait and indifferent Luis Cervantes grew , the bolder Camilla . 
At last , she said Listen to me , you nice young fellow , I want to tell you something pleas ant . 
To Luis Cervantes her words were like the noise of a sharp steel knife drawn over the side of a glass bottle . 
Blissfully unaware of the effect they had produced , she proceeded , candid as ever Well , I want to tell you something . 
Well , the other day I take some food over to him and what do you think he did to me , the old fool . 
He grabs hold of my wrist and he presses it tight , tight as can be , and then he starts pinching my legs . 
'Come on , let me go , I said . 
'Keep still , lay off , you shameless creature . 
You've got no manners , that's the trouble with you . 
So I wrestled with him , and shook my self free , like this , and ran off as fast as I could . 
What do you think of that ? Camilla had never seen Luis Cervantes laugh so heartily . 
But it is really true , all this you've told me ? Utterly at a loss , Camilla could not answer . 
Then he burst into laughter again and repeated the question . 
A sense of confusion came upon her . 
Disturbed , troubled , she said brokenly Yes , it's the truth . 
And I wanted to tell you about it . 
But you don't seem to feel at all angry . 
XII Demetrio's wound had already healed . 
They be gan to discuss various projects to go northward where , according to rumor , the rebels had beaten the Federal troops all along the line . 
A certain incident came to precipitate their action . 
Seated on a crag of the sierra in the cool of the after noon breeze , Luis Cervantes gazed away in the distance , dreaming and killing time . 
Below the narrow rock Pan cracio and Manteca , lying like lizards between the jarales along one of the river margins , were playing cards . 
What you need is the excitement of the city . 
I wager you shine your shoes every day and wear a necktie . 
Now , I may look dirty and my clothes may be torn to shreds , but I'm not really what I seem to be . 
I'm not here because I've got to be and don't you think so . 
Why , I own twenty oxen . 
Certainly I do ask my friend Demetrio . 
I cleared ten bushels last harvest time . 
You see , if there's one thing I love , that's riling these Government fellows and making them furious . 
The last scrape I had it'll be eight months gone now , ever since I've joined these men I stuck my knife into some captain . 
He was just a no body , a little Government squirt . 
I pinked him here , see , right under the navel . 
And that's why I'm here that and because I wanted to give my mate Demetrio a hand . 
Christ ! The bloody little darling of my life ! Manteca shouted , waxing enthusiastic over a winning hand . 
He placed a twenty cent silver coin on the jack of spades . 
If you want my opinion , I'm not much on gam bling . 
Do you want to bet ? Well , come on then , I'm game . 
How do you like the sound of this leather snake jingling , eh ? Anastasio shook his belt the silver coins rang as he shook them together . 
Meanwhile , Pancracio dealt the cards , the jack of spades turned up out of the deck and a quarrel ensued . 
Altercation , noise , then shouts , and , at last , insults . 
Pan cracio brought his stony face close to Manteca , who looked at him with snake's eyes , convulsive , foaming at the mouth . 
Another moment and they would have been exchanging blows . 
Having completely exhausted their stock of direct insults , they now resorted to the most flowery and ornate insulting of each other's ancestors , male and female , paternal or maternal . 
Yet nothing unto ward occurred . 
After their supply of words was exhausted , they gave over gambling and , their arms about each other's shoul ders , marched off in search of a drink of alcohol . 
I don't like to fight with my tongue either , it's not de cent . 
I'm right , too , eh ? I tell you no man living has ever breathed a word to me against my mother . 
I want to be respected , see ? That's why you've never seen me fooling with anyone . 
Then , suddenly , Look there , Tenderfoot , Anastasio said , changing his tone and standing up with one hand spread over his eyes . 
What's that dust over there behind the hillock . 
By God , what if it's those damned Federals and we sitting here doing nothing . 
Come on , let's go and warn the rest of the boys . 
The news met with cries of joy . 
Ah , we're going to meet them ! cried Pancracio jubi lantly , first among them to rejoice . 
Of course , we're going to meet them ! We'll strip them clean of everything they brought with them . 
A few moments later , amid cries of joy and a bustle of arms , they began saddling their horses . 
But the enemy turned out to be a few burros and two Indians , driving them forward . 
They must have come from some where and they've probably news for us , Demetrio said . 
Indeed , their news proved sensational . 
The Federal troops had fortified the hills in Zacatecas this was said to be Huerta's last stronghold , but everybody predicted the fall of the city . 
Many families had hastily fled south ward . 
General Panfilo Natera was assembling his men at Fresnillo the Federals already felt it was all up with them . 
The fall of Zacatecas will be Huerta's requiescat in pace , Luis Cervantes cried with unusual excitement . 
We've got to be there before the fight starts so that we can join Natera's army . 
Then , suddenly , he noted the surprise with which De metrio and his men greeted his suggestion . 
Crestfallen , he realized they still considered him of no account . 
Do you imagine we're in this game because we like it ? Now , I like the ex citement all right , but that's not all . 
Sit down here that's right . 
Do you want to know why I'm a rebel ? Well , I'll tell you . 
drinking won't hurt me , now , will it ? XIII I was born in Limon , close by Moyahua , right in the heart of the Juchipila canyon . 
I had my house and my cows and a patch of land , see I had everything I wanted . 
That's quite all right , anyhow , for we're not doing anyone any harm . 
But soon they start bothering you and the policeman walks up and down and stops oc casionally , with his ear to the door . 
The fellow was a greater bluffer than the rest . 
He couldn't tell a rooster from a hen , not he . 
Well , I spit on his beard because he wouldn't mind his own business . 
That's all , there's nothing else to tell . 
Then , just because I did that , he had the whole God damned Federal Government against me . 
You must have heard something about that story in Mexico City about the killing of Madero and some other fellow , Felix or Felipe Diaz , or something I don't know . 
Well , this man Monico goes in person to Zacatecas to get an army to capture me . 
They said that I was a Mad erista and that I was going to rebel . 
But a man like me always has friends . 
Somebody came and warned me of what was coming to me , so when the soldiers reached Limon I was miles and miles away . 
Trust me ! Then my compadre Anastasio who killed somebody came and joined me , and Pancracio and Quail and a lot of friends and acquaintances came after him . 
Since then we've been sort of collecting , see ? You know for yourself , we get along as best we can . 
For a while , both men sat meditating in silence . 
Then Look here , Chief , said Luis Cervantes . 
You know that some of Natera's men are at Juchipila , quite near here . 
I think we should join them before they capture Zacatecas . 
All we need do is speak to the General . 
I'm no good at that sort of thing . 
And I don't like the idea of accepting orders from anybody very much . 
But you've only a handful of men down here you'll only be an unimportant chieftain . 
There's no argument about it , the revolution is bound to win . 
After it's all over they'll talk to you just as Madero talked to all those who had helped him 'Thank you very much , my friends , you can go home now . 
Well that's all I want , to be let alone so I can go home . 
Wait a moment , I haven't finished . 
Madero said 'You men have made me President of the Republic . 
Demetrio nodded and , smiling , scratched his head . 
You said a mouthful , Louie , Venancio the barber put in enthusiastically . 
A mouthful as big as a church ! As I was saying , Luis Cervantes resumed , when the revolution is over , everything is over . 
Too bad that so many men have been killed , too bad there are so many widows and orphans , too bad there was so much blood shed . 
Of course , you are not selfish you say to yourself 'All I want to do is go back home . 
Macias smiled , his eyes shining . 
Will it be all right if we go with Natera ? Not only all right , Venancio said insinuatingly , but I think it absolutely necessary . 
Please let me be utterly frank . 
You do not yet realize your lofty noble function . 
You are a modest man without ambitions , you do not wish to realize the ex ceedingly important role you are destined to play in the revolution . 
It is not true that you took up arms simply be cause of Senor Monico . 
You are under arms to protest against the evils of all the caciques who are overrunning the whole nation . 
We are the elements of a social move ment which will not rest until it has enlarged the destinies of our motherland . 
We are the tools Destiny makes use of to reclaim the sacred rights of the people . 
We are not fighting to dethrone a miserable murderer , we are fight ing against tyranny itself . 
What moves us is what men call ideals our action is what men call fighting for a prin ciple . 
A principle ! That's why Villa and Natera and Car ranza are fighting that's why we , every man of us , are fighting . 
exactly what I've been thinking my self , said Venancio in a climax of enthusiasm . 
Hey , there , Pancracio , Macias called , pull down two more beers . 
XIV You ought to see how clear that fellow can make things , Compadre , Demetrio said . 
All morning long he had been pondering as much of Luis Cervantes' speech as he had understood . 
I heard him too , Anastasio answered . 
People who can read and write get things clear , all right nothing was ever truer . 
But what I can't make out is how you're going to go and meet Natera with as few men as we have . 
We're going to do things different now . 
You know I'm beginning to feel that we haven't done things right so far . 
It don't seem right somehow that this city guy should be able to tell us what to do . 
Ain't it wonderful to be able to read and write ! They both sighed , sadly . 
Luis Cervantes came in with several others to find out the day of their departure . 
We're leaving no later than tomorrow , said Demetrio without hesitation . 
Quail suggested that musicians be summoned from the neighboring hamlet and that a farewell dance be given . 
His idea met with enthusiasm on all sides . 
We'll go , then , Pancracio shouted , but I'm certainly going in good company this time . 
You won't have long to wait . 
Everything will be ar ranged when you return , Luis Cervantes whispered to him . 
What do you mean ? Demetrio asked . 
I thought that you and Camilla . 
There's not a word of truth in it , Chief . 
She likes you but she's afraid of you , that's all . 
Really ? Is that really true ? Yes . 
But I think you're quite right in not wanting to leave any bitter feelings behind you as you go . 
When you come back as a conqueror , everything will be dif ferent . 
They'll all thank you for it even . 
By God , you're certainly a shrewd one , Demetrio re plied , patting him on the back . 
At sundown , Camilla went to the river to fetch water as usual . 
Luis Cervantes , walking down the same trail , met her . 
Camilla felt her heart leap to her mouth . 
But , without taking the slightest notice of her , Luis Cervantes hastily took one of the turns and disappeared among the rocks . 
At this hour , as usual , the calcinated rocks , the sun burnt branches , and the dry weeds faded into the semi obscurity of the shadows . 
The wind blew softly , the green lances of the young corn leaves rustling in the twilight . 
Rounding a huge eroded rock , suddenly Camilla found herself face to face with Luis , who was seated on a stone , hatless , his legs dangling . 
Listen , you might come down here to say good bye . 
Luis Cervantes was obliging enough he jumped down and joined her . 
Now I'm about to leave , I'm very grateful to you I'll always remember you . 
Liar ! Camilla said , her face transfigured with joy . 
Suppose I hadn't come after you ? I intended to say good bye to you at the dance this evening . 
What dance ? If there's a dance , I'll not go to it . 
Why not ? Because I can't stand that horrible man . 
Deme trio ! Don't be silly , child , said Luis . 
He's really very fond of you . 
Don't go and throw away this opportunity . 
You'll never have one like it again in your life . 
Just imagine what a life you would lead with him ! Camilla stared up at the blue sky so he should not read the expression in her eyes . 
A dead leaf shook slowly loose from the crest of a tree swinging slowly on the wind , fell like a small dead butterfly at her feet . 
She bent down and took it in her fingers . 
Then , without look ing at him , she murmured It's horrible to hear you talk like that . 
Ah , well , go then , go I feel ashamed now . 
Please leave me ! She threw away the leaf she had crumpled in her hand and covered her face with a corner of her apron . 
When she opened her eyes , Luis Cervantes had disap peared . 
She followed the river trail . 
The river seemed to have been sprinkled with a fine red dust . 
On its surface drifted now a sky of variegated colors , now the dark crags , half light , half shadow . 
Myriads of luminous insects twinkled in a hollow . 
Among the reeds , the frogs chanted the implacable melancholy of the hour . 
Perched on a dry root , a dove wept also . 
XV That evening , there was much merrymaking at the dance , and a great quantity of mezcal was drunk . 
I miss Camilla , said Demetrio in a loud voice . 
Everybody looked about for Camilla . 
She's sick , she's got a headache , said Agapita harsh ly , uneasy as she caught sight of the malicious glances leveled at her . 
May God's hand lead you all , said an old woman . 
God bless you all and keep you well , others added . 
Look at her eyes they look like a witch's . 
There's no sorrow lasts more than three days ! Agapita knitted her eyebrows and muttered indistinct ly to herself . 
The old crones felt uneasy and lonesome since Deme trio's men had left . 
The men , too , in spite of their gossip and insults , lamented their departure since now they would have no one to bring them fresh meat every day . 
There they go ! Maria Antonia yelled . 
Why , they look like toys . 
Across the air a gust of hot wind bore the broken , faltering strains of La Adelita , the revolutionary song , to the settlement . 
Camilla , who had come out when Maria Antonia shouted , could no longer control herself she dived back into her hut , unable to restrain her tears and moaning . 
Maria Antonia burst into laughter and moved off . 
They've cast the evil eye on my daughter , Agapita said in perplexity . 
She pondered a while , then duly reached a decision . 
From a pole in the hut she took down a piece of strong leather which her husband used to hitch up the yoke . 
This pole stood between a picture of Christ and one of the Virgin . 
Agapita promptly twisted the leather and proceeded to administer a sound thrashing to Camil la in order to dispel the evil spirits . 
Riding proudly on his horse , Demetrio felt like a new man . 
His eyes recovered their peculiar metallic brilliance , and the blood flowed , red and warm , through his cop pery , pure blooded Aztec cheeks . 
They spurred their horses to a gallop as if in that mad race they laid claims of possession to the earth . 
Meco , prancing forward on his horse , bared his white glistening teeth , joking and kicking up like a clown . 
Hey , Pancracio , he asked with utmost seriousness , my wife writes me I've got another kid . 
How in hell is that ? I ain't seen her since Madero was President . 
That's nothing , the other replied . 
You just left her a lot of eggs to hatch for you ! They all laughed uproariously . 
Only Meco , grave and aloof , sang in a voice horribly shrill I gave her a penny That wasn't enough . 
I gave her a nickel The wench wanted more . 
I asked If a dime was enough But she wanted a quarter . 
By God ! That was tough ! All wenches are fickle And trumpery stuff ! The sun , beating down upon them , dulled their minds and bodies and presently they were silent . 
All day long they rode through the canyon , up and down the steep , round hills , dirty and bald as a man's head , hill after hill in endless succession . 
They advanced toward the main road in the distance they spied a figure of an Indian sitting on the embank ment . 
They drew up to him . 
He proved to be an un friendly looking old man , clad in rags he was laboriously attempting to mend his leather sandals with the help of a dull knife . 
A burro loaded with fresh green grass stood by . 
What are you doing , Grandpa ? Gathering alfalfa for my cow . 
How many Federals are there around here ? Just a few not more than a dozen , I reckon . 
The old man grew communicative . 
He told them of many important rumors Obregon was besieging Guada lajara , Torres was in complete control of the Potosi re gion , Natera ruled over Fresnillo . 
To hell with the mochos ! We'll kill every blasted one of them ! they cried in unison . 
Then they set to counting their cartridges and the hand grenades the Owl had made out of fragments of iron tubing and metal bed handles . 
Not much to brag about , but we'll soon trade them for rifles , Anastasio observed . 
Anxiously they pressed forward , spurring the thin flanks of their nags to a gallop . 
Demetrio's brisk , imperious tones of order brought them abruptly to a halt . 
They dismounted by the side of a hill , protected by thick huizache trees . 
Without unsaddling their horses , each began to search for stones to serve as pillows . 
XVI At midnight Demetrio Macias ordered the march to be resumed . 
The town was five or six miles away the best plan was to take the soldiers by surprise , before reveille . 
The sky was cloudy , with here and there a star shining . 
From time to time a flash of lightning crossed the sky with a red dart , illumining the far horizon . 
Do you see ? They'll be frightened out of their wits the moment they hear our first shot . 
Then they'll slink out and stand as targets for us . 
Suppose the old man we met yesterday lied to us . 
Suppose there are fifty soldiers instead of twenty . 
Who knows but he's a spy sent out by the Federals ! Ha , Tenderfoot , frightened already , eh ? Anastasio Montanez mocked . 
Sure ! Handling a rifle and messing about with band ages are two different things , Pancracio observed . 
Well , that's enough talk , I guess , said Meco . 
All we have to do is fight a dozen frightened rats . 
This fight won't convince our mothers that they gave birth to men or whatever the hell you like . 
When they reached the outskirts of the town , Venancio walked ahead and knocked at the door of a hut . 
Where's the soldiers' barracks ? he inquired of a man who came out barefoot , a ragged serape covering his body . 
Right there , just beyond the Plaza , he answered . 
Since nobody knew where the city square was , Venan cio made him walk ahead to show the way . 
Trembling with fear , the poor devil told them they were doing him a terrible wrong . 
I'm just a poor day laborer , sir I've got a wife and a lot of kids . 
What the hell do you think I have , dogs ? Demetrio scowled . 
I've got kids too , see ? Then he commanded You men keep quiet . 
Not a sound out of you ! And walk down the middle of the street , single file . 
The rectangular church cupola rose above the small houses . 
Here , gentlemen there's the Plaza beyond the church . 
Just walk a bit further and there's the barracks . 
How many soldiers are there ? Luis Cervantes asked . 
Luis Cervantes turned around to stare at Demetrio , who feigned momentary deafness . 
They were soon in the city square . 
A loud volley of rifle shots rang out , deafening them . 
Demetrio's horse reared , staggered on its hind legs , bent its forelegs , and fell to the ground , kicking . 
The Owl uttered a piercing cry and fell from his horse which rushed madly to the center of the square . 
Another volley the guide threw up his arms and fell on his back without a sound . 
With all haste , Anastasio Montanez helped Demetrio up behind him on his horse the others retreated , seek ing shelter along the walls of the houses . 
Hey , men , said a workman sticking his head out of a large door , go for 'em through the back of the chapel . 
Cut back through this street , then turn to the left you'll reach an alley . 
Keep on going ahead until you hit the chapel . 
As he spoke a fresh volley of pistol shots , directed from the neighboring roofs , fell like a rain about them . 
By God , the man said , those ain't poisonous spiders they're only townsmen scared of their own shadow . 
Come in here until they stop . 
How many of them are there ? asked Demetrio . 
There were only twelve of them . 
But last night they were scared out of their wits so they wired to the town beyond for help . 
I don't know how many of them there are now . 
My brother was drafted they've got him there . 
I'll go along with you and signal to him all of them will desert and follow you . 
Then we'll only have the officers to deal with ! If you want to give me a gun or something . 
No more rifles left , brother . 
But I guess you can put these to some use , Anastasio Montanez said , passing him two hand grenades . 
The officer in command of the Federals was a young coxcomb of a captain with a waxed mustache and blond hair . 
When ever the slightest insubordination arose , he invariably re called his feat at the Ciudadela . 
This mes sage came from the citizens keeping watch on housetops . 
I'll go myself and get it over with ! the officer de clared impetuously . 
But he soon changed his mind . 
Before he had reached the door , he retraced his steps . 
Very likely they are waiting for more men and , of course , it would be wrong for me to abandon my post . 
Lieutenant Campos , go there yourself and capture them dead or alive . 
We'll shoot them at noon when every body's coming out of church . 
Those bandits will see the example I'll set around here . 
But if you can't capture them , Lieutenant , kill them all . 
To His Honor the Minister for War , General A. Blanquet , Mexico City . 
Sir I have the honor to inform your Excellency that on the morning of . 
a rebel army , five hundred strong , com manded by . 
attacked this town , which I am charged to defend . 
With such speed as the gravity of the situation called for , I fortified my post in the town . 
The battle lasted two hours . 
Despite the superiority of the enemy in men and equipment , I was able to defeat and rout them . 
Their casualties were twenty killed and a far greater num ber of wounded , judging from the trails of blood they left behind them as they retreated . 
I am pleased to state there was no casualty on our side . 
I have the honor to con gratulate Your Excellency upon this new triumph for the Federal arms . 
Viva Presidente Huerta ! Viva Mexico ! Well , the young captain mused , I'll be promoted to major . 
He clasped his hands together , jubilant . 
At this precise moment , a detonation rang out . 
His ears buzzed , he XVII If we get through the corral , we can make the alley , eh ? Demetrio asked . 
That's right , the workman answered . 
Beyond the corral there's a house , then another corral , then there's a store . 
Demetrio scratched his head , thoughtfully . 
This time his decision was immediate . 
Can you get hold of a crowbar or something like that to make a hole through the wall ? Yes , we'll get anything you want , but . 
But what ? Where can we get a crowbar ? Everything is right there . 
But it all belongs to the boss . 
Without further ado , Demetrio strode into the shed which had been pointed out as the toolhouse . 
It was all a matter of a few minutes . 
Once in the alley , hugging to the walls , they marched forward in single file until they reached the rear of the church . 
Now they had but a single fence and the rear wall of the chapel to scale . 
God's will be done ! Demetrio said to himself . 
He was the first to clamber over . 
Like monkeys the others followed him , reaching the other side with bleeding , grimy hands . 
The deep worn steps along the stonework made their as cent of the chapel wall swifter . 
The church vault hid them from the soldiers . 
Wait a moment , will you ? said the workman . 
I'll go and see where my brother is I'll let you know and then you'll get at the officers . 
But no one paid the slightest attention to him . 
For a second , Demetrio glanced at the soldiers' black coats hanging on the wall , then at his own men , thick on the church tower behind the iron rail . 
But before they had real ized their plight , twenty more bombs burst like thunder upon them leaving a scattering of men killed or maimed . 
Don't do that yet , for God's sake ! Don't do it till I find my brother , the workman implored in anguish . 
In vain an old sergeant harangued the soldiers , insult ing them in the hope of rallying them . 
For they were rats , caught in a trap , no more , no less . 
Some of the soldiers , attempting to reach the small door by the staircase , fell to the ground pierced by Demetrio's shots . 
In the belfry , a few men struggled to emerge from the pile of dead who had fallen upon them . 
It's awful , Chief ! Luis Cervantes cried in alarm . 
We've no more bombs left and we left our guns in the corral . 
Smiling , Demetrio drew out a large shining knife . 
In the twinkling of an eye , steel flashed in every hand . 
Some knives were large and pointed , others wide as the palm of a hand , others heavy as bayonets . 
The spy ! Luis Cervantes cried triumphantly . 
The victim raised his wrinkled Indian face there was not a single gray hair in his head today . 
Demetrio recognized the spy who had lied to him the day before . 
Terrified , Luis Cervantes quickly averted his face . 
The steel blade went crack , crack , on the old man's ribs . 
He toppled backward , his arms spread , his eyes ghastly . 
Don't kill my brother , don't kill him , he's my brother ! the workman shouted in terror to Pancracio who was pursuing a soldier . 
But it was too late . 
With one thrust , Pancracio had cut his neck in half , and two streams of scarlet spurted from the wound . 
Kill the soldiers , kill them all ! Pancracio and Manteca surpassed the others in the savagery of their slaughter , and finished up with the wounded . 
Montanez , exhausted , let his arm fall it hung limp to his side . 
A gentle expression still filled his glance his eyes shone he was naive as a child , unmoral as a hyena . 
Here's one who's not dead yet , Quail shouted . 
The little blond captain with curled mustache turned pale as wax . 
He stood against the door to the staircase unable to muster enough strength to take another step . 
Pancracio pushed him brutally to the edge of the cor ridor . 
A jab with his knee against the captain's thigh then a sound not unlike a bag of stones falling from the top of the steeple on the porch of the church . 
My God , you've got no brains ! said Quail . 
If I'd known what you were doing , I'd have kept him for my self . 
That was a fine pair of shoes you lost ! Bending over them , the rebels stripped those among the soldiers who were best clad , laughing and joking as they despoiled them . 
The leader received him cordially . 
I know who you are and the sort of men you bring . 
I heard about the beatings you gave the Federals from Tepic to Durango . 
Natera shook hands with Demetrio effusively while Luis Cervantes said With men like General Natera and Colonel Demetrio Macias , we'll cover our country with glory . 
Demetrio understood the purpose of those words , after Natera had repeatedly addressed him as Colonel . 
Wine and beer were served Demetrio and Natera drank many a toast . 
Natera fixed his cruel gaze on the orator , then turned his back on him to talk to Demetrio . 
Presently , one of Na tera's officers , a young man with a frank open face , drew up to the table and stared insistently at Cervantes . 
Are you Luis Cervantes ? Yes . 
You're Solis , eh ? The moment you entered I thought I recognized you . 
Well , well , even now I can hardly believe my eyes ! It's true enough ! Well , but . 
look here , let's have a drink , come along . 
Have you lost your faith or enthusiasm ? Look here , man , don't be surprised if I confide in you right off . 
But frankly , I think you should do the explaining first . 
I tell you honestly I have been converted , Cervantes answered . 
Are you absolutely convinced ? Solis sighed , filled the glasses they drank . 
What about you ? Are you tired of the revolution ? asked Cervantes sharply . 
I hoped to find a meadow at the end of the road . 
Facts are bitter so are men . 
That bitter ness eats your heart out it is poison , dry rot . 
Enthu siasm , hope , ideals , happiness vain dreams , vain dreams . 
When that's over , you have a choice . 
Either you turn bandit , like the rest , or the timeservers will swamp you . 
Cervantes writhed at his friend's words his argument was quite out of place . 
To avoid being forced to take issue , he invited Solis to cite the cir cumstances that had destroyed his illusions . 
Circumstances ? No it's far less important than that . 
It's a host of silly , insignificant things that no one notices except yourself . 
a race that awaits redemption ! He drained another glass . 
you're a leaf , a dead leaf , blown by the wind . 
Seeing him , Solis relapsed into silence . 
Come along , Demetrio said to Cervantes . 
Unctuously , Solis congratulated Demetrio on the feats that had won him fame and the notice of Pancho Villa's northern division . 
Demetrio warmed to his praise . 
Gratefully , he heard his prowess vaunted , though at times he found it difficult to believe he was the hero of the exploits the other nar rated . 
But Solis' story proved so charming , so con vincing , that before long he found himself repeating it as gospel truth . 
Natera is a genius ! Luis Cervantes said when they had returned to the hotel . 
But Captain Solis is a nobody . 
Demetrio Macias was too elated to listen to him . 
I'm a colonel , my lad ! And you're my secretary ! Demetrio's men made many acquaintances that eve ning much liquor flowed to celebrate new friendships . 
Of course men are not necessarily even tempered , nor is alcohol a good counselor quarrels naturally ensued . 
Yet many differences that occurred were smoothed out in a friendly spirit , outside the saloons , restaurants , or broth els . 
On the morrow , casualties were reported . 
An old prostitute was found with a bullet through her stomach two of Colonel Macias' new men lay in the gutter , slit from ear to ear . 
Anastasio Montanez carried an account of the events to his chief . 
Bury them ! he said . 
XIX They're coming back ! It was with amazement that the inhabitants of Fresnillo learned that the rebel attack on Zacatecas had failed com pletely . 
They're coming back ! The rebels were a maddened mob , sunburnt , filthy , naked . 
Their high wide brimmed straw hats hid their faces . 
The high hats came back as happily as they had marched forth a few days before , pillaging every hamlet along the road , every ranch , even the poorest hut . 
Who'll buy this thing ? one of them asked . 
He had carried his spoils long he was tired . 
The sheen of the nickel on the typewriter , a new machine , attracted every glance . 
Five times that morning the Oliver had changed hands . 
The first sale netted the owner ten pesos pres ently it had sold for eight each time it changed hands , it was two pesos cheaper . 
To be sure , it was a heavy bur den nobody could carry it for more than a half hour . 
I'll give you a quarter for it ! Quail said . 
Yours ! cried the owner , handing it over quickly , as though he feared Quail might change his mind . 
Thus for the sum of twenty five cents , Quail was afforded the pleas ure of taking it in his hands and throwing it with all his might against the wall . 
It struck with a crash . 
This gave the signal to all who carried any cumbersome objects to get rid of them by smashing them against the rocks . 
Objects of all sorts , crystal , china , faience , porcelain , flew through the air . 
Heavy , plated mirrors , brass candlesticks , fragile , delicate statues , Chinese vases , any object not readily convertible into cash fell by the wayside in fragments . 
Demetrio did not share the untoward exaltation . 
After all , they were retreating defeated . 
He called Montanez and Pancracio aside and said These fellows have no guts . 
It's not so hard to take a town . 
First , you open up , this way . 
He sketched a vast gesture , spreading his powerful arms . 
Then you get close to them , like this . 
He brought his arms together , slowly . 
Then slam ! Bang ! Whack ! Crash ! He beat his hands against his chest . 
Anastasio and Pancracio , convinced by this simple , lucid explanation answered That's God's truth ! They've no guts ! That's the trouble with them ! Demetrio's men camped in a corral . 
Do you remember Camilla ? Demetrio asked with a sigh as he settled on his back on the manure pile where the rest were already stretched out . 
I've not forgotten , Demetrio went on , drawing on his cigarette . 
Yes , I was feeling like hell ! I'd just finished drinking a glass of water . 
God , but it was cool . 
'Don't you want any more ? she asked me . 
I was half dead with fever . 
and all the time I saw that glass of water , blue . 
You may not believe it , but I've had a lot of experience with women . 
Women ! Christ , they're all right for a while , granted ! Though even that's going pretty far . 
Demetrio , you should see the scars they've given me . 
all over my body , not to speak of my soul ! To hell with women . 
They're the devil , that's what they are ! You may have noticed I steer clear of them . 
And don't think I don't know what I'm talking about . 
Say the day , I'm game . 
You know I left my woman there too ! Your woman , hell ! Quail said , disgruntled and sleepy . 
All right , then , our woman ! It's a good thing you're kindhearted so we all can enjoy her when you bring her over , Manteca murmured . 
That's right , Pancracio , bring one eyed Maria An tonia . 
We're all getting pretty cold around here , Meco shouted from a distance . 
The crowd broke into peals of laughter . 
Pancracio and Manteca vied with each other in calling forth oaths and obscenity . 
XX Villa is coming ! The news spread like lightning . 
Villa the magic word ! The Great Man , the salient profile , the unconquerable warrior who , even at a distance , exerts the fascination of a reptile , a boa constrictor . 
Our Mexican Napoleon ! exclaimed Luis Cervantes . 
The high hats , wearing mufflers around their necks and thick rough leather shoes on their feet , ate and drank endlessly . 
Their gnarled hands loomed across table , across bar . 
All their talk was of Villa and his men . 
The tales Natera's followers related won gasps of astonish ment from Demetrio's men . 
Villa ! Villa's battles ! Ciu dad Juarez . 
The bare facts , the mere citing of observation and ex perience meant nothing . 
But the real story , with its ex traordinary contrasts of high exploits and abysmal cruel ties was quite different . 
Villa , indomitable lord of the sierra , the eternal victim of all governments . 
Villa tracked , hunted down like a wild beast . 
It was the poor who built up and imposed a legend about him which Time itself was to increase and embellish as a shining example from generation to generation . 
Look here , friend , one of Natera's men told Anas tasio , if General Villa takes a fancy to you , he'll give you a ranch on the spot . 
There's no such a thing as hunger up there . 
and then pretty soon they begin to rise , making a hell of a row . 
Something like an automobile going sixty miles an hour . 
Then they're like great big birds that don't even seem to move sometimes . 
But there's a joker ! The God damn things have got some American fellow inside with hand grenades by the thousand . 
Pretty soon the whole damn field is nothing but a grave yard . 
dead men all over the dump . 
dead men everywhere ! Anastasio Montanez questioned the speaker more par ticularly . 
It was not long before he realized that all this high praise was hearsay and that not a single man in Natera's army had ever laid eyes on Villa . 
Well , when you get down to it , I guess it doesn't mean so much ! No man's got much more guts than any other man , if you ask me . 
All you need to be a good fighter is pride , that's all . 
I'm not a professional soldier even though I'm dressed like hell , but let me tell you . 
I'm not forced to do this kind of bloody job , because I own . 
Because I own over twenty oxen , whether you believe it or not ! Quail said , mocking Anastasio . 
XXI The firing lessened , then slowly died out . 
Luis Cer vantes , who had been hiding amid a heap of ruins at the fortification on the crest of the hill , made bold to show his face . 
How he had managed to hang on , he did not know . 
Nor did he know when Demetrio and his men had disappeared . 
After a few moments , horse and riders fell . 
Left without rifle , revolver , or arms of any kind , Cer vantes found himself lost in the midst of white smoke and whistling bullets . 
A hole amid a debris of crumbling stone offered a refuge of safety . 
Hello , partner ! Luis , how are you ! The horse threw me . 
Then they took my gun away . 
You see , they thought I was dead . 
There was nothing I could do ! Luis Cervantes explained apologetically . 
Then Nobody threw me down , Solis said . 
I'm here be cause I like to play safe . 
The irony in Solis' voice brought a blush to Cer vantes' cheek . 
By God , that chief of yours is a man ! Solis said . 
What daring , what assurance ! He left me gasping and a hell of a lot of other men with more experience than me , too ! Luis Cervantes vouchsafed no answer . 
What ! Weren't you there ? Oh , I see ! You found a nice place for yourself at the right time . 
Come here , Luis , I'll explain let's go behind that rock . 
From this meadow to the foot of the hill , there's no road save this path be low . 
To the right , the incline is too sharp you can't do anything there . 
And it's worse to the left the ascent is so dangerous that a second's hesitation means a fall down those rocks and a broken neck at the end of it . 
All right ! A number of men from Moya's brigade who went down to the meadow decided to attack the enemy's trenches the first chance they got . 
The bullets whizzed about us , the battle raged on all sides . 
For a time they stopped firing , so we thought they were being attacked from behind . 
We stormed their trenches look , partner , look at that meadow ! It's thick with corpses ! Their machine guns did that for us . 
They mowed us down like wheat only a hand ful escaped . 
Those Goddamned officers went white as a sheet even though we had reinforcements they were afraid to order a new charge . 
That was when Demetrio Macias plunged in . 
Did he wait for orders ? Not he ! He just shouted 'Come on , boys ! Let's go for them ! 'Damn fool ! I thought . 
'What the hell does he think he's doing ! The officers , surprised , said nothing . 
Demetrio's horse seemed to wear eagle's claws instead of hoofs , it soared so swiftly over the rocks . 
'Come on ! Come on ! his men shouted , following him like wild deer , horses and men welded into a mad stampede . 
Only one young fellow stepped wild and fell headlong into the pit . 
In a few sec onds the others appeared at the top of the hill , storming the trenches and killing the Federals by the thousand . 
With his rope , Demetrio lassoed the machine guns and carried them off , like a bull herd throwing a steer . 
Yet his success could not last much longer , for the Federals were far stronger in numbers and could easily have de stroyed Demetrio and his men . 
But we took advantage of their confusion , we rushed upon them and they soon cleared out of their position . 
That chief of yours is a wonderful soldier ! Standing on the crest of the hill , they could easily sight one side of the Bufa peak . 
Its highest crag spread out like the feathered head of a proud Aztec king . 
The three hundred foot slope was literally covered with dead , their hair matted , their clothes clotted with grime and blood . 
Amid clouds of white rifle smoke and the dense black vapors of flaming buildings , houses with wide doors and windows bolted shone in the sunlight . 
The streets seemed to be piled upon one another , or wound picturesquely about fantastic corners , or set to scale the hills nearby . 
Above the graceful cluster of houses , rose the lithe columns of a warehouse and the towers and cupola of the church . 
How beautiful the revolution ! Even in its most bar barous aspect it is beautiful , Solis said with deep feel ing . 
People without ideals ! A tyrant folk ! Vain bloodshed ! Large groups of Federals pushed up the hill , fleeing from the high hats . 
A bullet whistled past them , singing as it sped . 
After his speech , Alberto Solis stood lost in thought , his arms crossed . 
Suddenly , he took fright . 
I'll be damned if I like these plaguey mosquitoes ! he said . 
Let's get away from here ! So scornfully Luis Cervantes smiled that Solis sat down on a rock quite calm , bewildered . 
His gaze roved as he watched the spirals of smoke from the rifles , the dust of roofs crumbling from houses as they fell before the artillery . 
By heaven , now I see what it all means ! He sketched a vast gesture , pointing to the station . 
Locomotives belched huge clouds of black dense smoke rising in columns the trains were overloaded with fugi tives who had barely managed to escape from the cap tured town . 
Suddenly he felt a sharp blow in the stomach . 
As though his legs were putty , he rolled off the rock . 
PART TWO Demetrio , nonplussed , scratched his head Look here , don't ask me any more questions . 
To champagne , that sparkles and foams as the beaded bubbles burst at the brim of the glass , Demetrio pre ferred the native tequila , limpid and fiery . 
The soldiers sat in groups about the tables in the res taurant , ragged men , filthy with sweat , dirt and smoke , their hair matted , wild , disheveled . 
I killed two colonels , one man clamored in a guttural harsh voice . 
He was a small fat fellow , with embroidered hat and chamois coat , wearing a light purple handker chief about his neck . 
They were so Goddamned fat they couldn't even run . 
'Don't run so fast , you lousy beggars ! I called after them . 
'I'm not so fond of frightened geese stop , You bald headed bastards I won't harm you ! You needn't worry ! By God , they certainly fell for it . 
I sighted one a fellow with a hell of a lot of gold plastered all over him . 
His gold chevrons shone like a Goddamned sunset . 
And I let him go by , fool that I was . 
He took off his handkerchief and waved it . 
I stood there with my mouth wide open like a fool ! Then I ducked and he started shooting , bullet after bullet . 
I let him kill a poor cargador . 
Then I said 'My turn , now ! Holy Vir gin , Mother of God ! Don't let me miss this son of a bitch . 
But , by Christ , he disappeared . 
He was riding a hell of a fine nag he went by me like lightning ! There was another poor fool coming up the road . 
He got it and turned the prettiest somersault you ever saw ! Talk flew from lip to lip , each soldier vying with his fellow , snatching the words from the other's mouth . 
A vulgar wench , with rouged cheeks and dark brown arms and neck , gave a great leap and landed on the bar near Demetrio's table . 
He turned his head toward her and literally collided with a pair of lubric eyes under a narrow forehead and thick , straight hair , parted in the middle . 
Anastasio , Pancracio , Quail , and Meco filed in , dazed . 
Anastasio uttered a cry of surprise and stepped for ward to shake hands with the little fat man wearing a charro suit and a lavender bandanna . 
A pair of old friends , met again . 
So warm was their embrace , so tightly they clutched each other that the blood rushed to their heads , they turned purple . 
Look here , Demetrio , I want the honor of introducing you to Blondie . 
He's a real friend , you know . 
I love him like a brother . 
Seated on the bar , she swung her legs at every swing , the toes of her shoes touched Demetrio's back . 
Yes I'm Demetrio Macias ! he said , scarcely turn ing toward her . 
Indifferently , she continued to swing her legs , display ing her blue stockings with ostentation . 
Hey , War Paint , what are you doing here ? Step down and have a drink ! said the man called Blondie . 
The girl accepted readily and boldly thrust her way through the crowd to a chair facing Demetrio . 
So you're the famous Demetrio Macias , the hero of Zacatecas ? the girl asked . 
Demetrio bowed assent , while Blondie , laughing , said You're a wise one , War Paint . 
You want to sport a general ! Without understanding Blondie's words , Demetrio raised his eyes to hers they gazed at each other like two dogs sniffing one another with distrust . 
Demetrio could not resist her furiously provocative glances he was forced to lower his eyes . 
From their seats , some of Natera's officers began to hurl obscenities at War Paint . 
Without paying the slightest attention , she said General Natera is going to hand you out a little general's eagle . 
Put it here and shake on it , boy ! She stuck out her hand at Demetrio and shook it with the strength of a man . 
Demetrio , melting to the con gratulations raining down upon him , ordered champagne . 
I don't want no more to drink , Blondie said to the waiter , I'm feeling sick . 
Just bring me some ice water . 
I want something to eat , said Pancracio . 
Bring me anything you've got but don't make it chili or beans ! Officers kept coming in presently the restaurant was crowded . 
Small stars , bars , eagles and insignia of every sort or description dotted their hats . 
They wore wide silk bandannas around their necks , large diamond rings on their fingers , large heavy gold watch chains across their breasts . 
Here , waiter , Blondie cried , I ordered ice water . 
And I'm not begging for it either , see ? Look at this bunch of bills . 
I don't like to play about I get mad when I'm crossed . 
By God , didn't I tell you I wouldn't stand for any backchat ? You won't bring it to me , eh ? Well , take this . 
A heavy blow sent the waiter reeling to the floor . 
When I was up at Torreon I killed an old lady who refused to sell me some enchiladas . 
Down in Chihuahua I killed a man because I always saw him sitting at the table whenever I went to eat . 
I hated the looks of him so I just killed him ! What the hell could I do ! Hmm ! I killed . 
By dawn , when the restaurant was wild with joy and the floor dotted with spittle , young painted girls from the suburbs had mingled freely among the dark northern women . 
Demetrio pulled out his jeweled gold watch , ask ing Anastasio Montanez to tell him the time . 
Anastasio glanced at the watch , then , poking his head out of a small window , gazed at the starry sky . 
The Pleiades are pretty low in the west . 
I guess it won't be long now before daybreak . 
Outside the restaurant , the shouts , laughter and song of the drunkards rang through the air . 
Men galloped wild ly down the streets , the hoofs of their horses hammering on the sidewalks . 
From every quarter of the town pis tols spoke , guns belched . 
Demetrio and the girl called War Paint staggered tipsily hand in hand down the center of the street , bound for the hotel . 
II What damned fools , said War Paint convulsed with laughter ! Where the hell do you come from ? . 
Soldiers don't sleep in hotels and inns any more . 
Where do you come from ? You just go anywhere you like and pick a house that pleases you , see . 
When you go there , make yourself at home and don't ask anyone for any thing . 
Anastasio , Pancracio and War Paint plunged their hands into a mass of post cards , photographs , pictures and papers , scattering them all over the rug . 
Finding nothing he wanted , Pancracio gave vent to his anger by kicking a framed photograph into the air with the toe of his shoe . 
It smashed on the candelabra in the center of the room . 
They pulled their empty hands out of the heap of paper , cursing . 
But War Paint was of sterner stuff tirelessly she continued to unlock drawer after drawer without failing to investigate a single spot . 
In their absorption , they did not notice a small gray velvet covered box which rolled silently across the floor , coming to a stop at Luis Cer vantes' feet . 
Some thing gleamed up at him , dazzling . 
It was two pure water diamonds mounted in filigreed platinum . 
Hastily he thrust them inside his coat pocket . 
When Demetrio awoke , Cervantes said General , look at the mess these boys have made here . 
Don't you think it would be advisable to forbid this sort of thing ? No. It's about their only pleasure after putting their bellies up as targets for the enemy's bullets . 
Yes , of course , General , but they could do it some where else . 
You see , this sort of thing hurts our prestige , and worse , our cause ! Demetrio leveled his eagle eyes at Cervantes . 
He drummed with his fingernails against his teeth , absent mindedly . 
Then Come along , now , don't blush , he said . 
You can talk like that to someone else . 
We know what's mine is mine , what's yours is yours . 
You picked the box , all right I picked my gold watch all right too ! His words dispelled any pretense . 
Both of them , in perfect harmony , displayed their booty . 
War Paint and her companions were ransacking the rest of the house . 
Quail entered the room with a twelve year old girl upon whose forehead and arms were al ready marked copper colored spots . 
Quail held his breath , his avid eyes scouring the room for booty . 
A fine sweat cover for my mare . 
With a swift pull he wrenched down a hanging , which fell over a handsomely carved upright chair . 
Look , look at all these naked women ! Quail's little companion cried , enchanted at a de luxe edition of Dante's Divine Comedy . 
I like this I think I'll take it along . 
She began to tear out the illustrations which pleased her most . 
Demetrio crossed the room and sat down beside Luis Cervantes . 
He ordered some beer , handed one bottle up to his secretary , downed his own bottle at one gulp . 
Then , drowsily , he half closed his eyes , and soon fell sound asleep . 
Hey ! a man called to Pancracio from the threshold . 
When can I see your general ? You can't see him . 
He's got a hangover this morn ing . 
What the hell do you want ? I want to buy some of those books you're burning . 
I'll sell them to you myself . 
How much do you want for them ? Pancracio frowned in bewilderment . 
Give me a nickel for those with pictures , see . 
I'll give you the rest for nothing if you buy all those with pictures . 
The man returned with a large basket to carry away the books . 
Come on , Demetrio , come on , you pig , get up ! Look who's here ! It's Blondie . 
You don't know what a fine man he is ! I like you very much , General Macias , and I like the way you do things . 
So if it's all right , I'd like very much to serve under you ! What's your rank ? Demetrio asked him . 
I'm a captain , General . 
All right , you can serve with me now . 
How's that ? Blondie was a round little fellow , with waxed mus tache . 
When he laughed , his blue eyes disappeared mis chievously between his forehead and his fat cheeks . 
He had been a waiter at El Monico , in Chihuahua now he proudly wore three small brass bars , the insignia of his rank in the Northern Division . 
Blondie showered eulogy after eulogy on Demetrio and his men this proved sufficient reason for bringing out a fresh case of beer , which was finished in short order . 
Suddenly War Paint reappeared in the middle of the room , wearing a beautiful silk dress covered with ex quisite lace . 
You forgot the stockings , Blondie shouted , shaking with laughter . 
Quail's girl also burst out laughing . 
But War Paint did not care . 
She said Hey , you , Pancracio , go and get me my blue stock ings . 
they're with the rest of my plunder . 
Soldiers and their friends , companions and veterans of other campaigns , began to enter in groups of twos and threes . 
Demetrio , growing excited , began to narrate in detail his most notable feats of arms . 
What the hell is that noise ? he asked in surprise as he heard string and brass instruments tuning up in the patio . 
They all turned to look at her . 
Her large blue eyes grew wide in wonder . 
Her skin was like a rose , soft , pink , fresh her hair was very fair the expression in her eyes was partly impish curiosity , partly a vague childish fear . 
Perceiving that Demetrio eyed her like a beast of prey , Luis Cervantes congratu lated himself . 
They made room for her between Luis Cervantes and Blondie , opposite Demetrio . 
Bottles of tequila , dishes of cut glass , bowls , porcelains and vases lay scattered over the table indiscriminately . 
Meco , carrying a box of beer upon his shoulders , came in cursing and sweating . 
You don't know this fellow Blondie yet , said War Paint , noticing the persistent glances he was casting at Luis Cervantes' bride . 
He's a smart fellow , I can tell you , and he never misses a trick . 
The soldiers roared with joy . 
What fine tripe , General I swear I haven't tasted the like of it in all my life , Blondie said , as he began to reminisce about El Monico at Chihuahua . 
You really like it , Blondie ? responded Demetrio . 
Go ahead , call for more , eat your bellyful . 
It's just the way I like it , Anastasio chimed in . 
Yes , I like good food ! But nothing really tastes good to you unless you belch ! The noise of mouths being filled , of ravenous feeding followed . 
At the end of the dinner , Luis Cervantes rose , holding a champagne glass in one hand , and said General . 
Ho ! War Paint interrupted . 
This speech making busi ness isn't for me I'm all against it . 
I'll go out to the corral since there's no more eating here . 
Presenting Demetrio with a black velvet covered box containing a small brass eagle , Luis Cervantes made a toast which no one understood but everyone applauded enthusiastically . 
I ain't got much to tell you . 
Whole minutes elapsed between his words the cursed words would not come to Anastasio . 
His face , coated with filth , unwashed for days , turned crimson , shining with perspiration . 
Finally he decided to finish his toast at all costs . 
Well , I ain't got much to tell you , except that we are pals . 
Then , since everyone had applauded at the end of Luis Cervantes' speech , Anastasio having finished , made a sign , and the company clapped their hands in great gravi ty . 
But everything turned out for the best , since his awk wardness inspired others . 
Manteca and Quail stood up and made their toasts , too . 
When Meco's turn came , War Paint rushed in shouting jubilantly , attempting to drag a splendid black horse into the dining room . 
My booty ! My booty ! she cried , patting the superb animal on the neck . 
It resisted every effort she made until a strong jerk of the rope and a sudden lash brought it in prancing smartly . 
The soldiers , half drunk , stared at the beast with ill disguised envy . 
I don't know what the hell this she devil's got , but she always beats everybody to it , cried Blondie . 
Once more they filled their glasses . 
Many a head hung low with fatigue or drunkenness . 
Most of the company , however , shouted with glee , including Luis Cervantes' girl . 
She had spilled all her wine on a handkerchief and looked all about her with blue wondering eyes . 
Boys , Blondie suddenly screamed , his shrill , guttural voice dominating the mall , I'm tired of living I feel like killing myself right now . 
He was boiling with indignation . 
Keep your eye on me , boys , Blondie went on , gun in hand . 
I'm going to shoot myself right in the fore head ! He aimed at the large mirror on the opposite wall which gave back his whole body in reflection . 
Don't move , War Paint . 
The bullet whizzed by , grazing War Paint's hair . 
The mirror broke into large jagged fragments . 
She did not even so much as blink . 
IV Late in the afternoon Luis Cervantes rubbed his eyes and sat up . 
He had been sleeping on the hard pavement , close to the trunk of a fruit tree . 
Anastasio , Pancracio and Quail slept nearby , breathing heavily . 
His lips were swollen , his nose dry and cold . 
There were bloodstains on his hands and shirt . 
At once he recalled what had taken place . 
Soon he rose to his feet and made for one of the bedrooms . 
He pushed at the door several times without being able to force it open . 
For a few min utes he stood there , hesitating . 
No he had not dreamed it . 
Everything had really oc curred just as he recalled it . 
Then War Paint dashed in after Demetrio and began to struggle with him . 
Deme trio , his eyes white hot , his lips covered with long blond hairs , looked for the bride , in despair . 
But War Paint pushed him back vigorously . 
What the hell is the matter with you ? What the hell are you trying to do ? he demanded , furious . 
War Paint put her leg between his , twisted it suddenly , and Demetrio fell to the ground outside of the bedroom . 
Help ! Help ! He's going to kill me ! she cried , seizing Demetrio's wrist and turning the gun aside . 
The bullet hit the floor . 
War Paint continued to shriek . 
Anastasio dis armed Demetrio from behind . 
Demetrio , standing like a furious bull in the middle of the arena , cast fierce glances at all the bystanders , Luis Cervantes , Anastasio , Manteca , and the others . 
Goddamn you ! You've taken my gun away ! Christ ! As if I needed any gun to beat the hell out of you . 
Flinging out his arms , beating and pummeling , he felled everyone within reach . 
Down they rolled like tenpins . 
Then , after that , Luis Cervantes could remember nothing more . 
Perhaps his bride , terrified by all these brutes , had wisely vanished and hidden herself . 
Perhaps this bedroom communicates with the living room and I can go in through there , he thought , stand ing at the threshold . 
At the sound of his footsteps , War Paint woke up . 
She lay on the rug close to Demetrio at the foot of a couch filled with alfalfa and corn where the black horse had fed . 
Take the key , it's lying on that table , there ! Luis Cervantes searched in vain all over the house . 
Come on , tell me all about your girl . 
Nervously , Luis Cervantes continued to look for the key . 
Come on , don't be in such a hurry , I'll give it to you . 
Come along , tell me I like to hear about these things , you know . 
That girl is your kind , she's not a country per son like us . 
She's my girl and we're going to get married , that's all . 
I've cut my wisdom teeth . 
It was Meco and Manteca who took the girl from her home I knew that all the time . 
You just gave them something so as to have her your self , gave them a pair of cuff links . 
or a miraculous picture of some Virgin . 
Quickly , she ran to the bedroom door and peered through the key hole , standing motionless until her eye grew accustomed to the darkness within . 
Without drawing away , she said You damned Blondie . 
Son of a bitch ! Come here a minute , look ! She went away laughing . 
Come on , Angel Face . 
Run home quick ! The blue eyed girl , with a face like a Madonna , stood naked save for her chemise and stockings . 
War Paint covered her with Manteca's lousy blanket , took her by the hand and led her to the street . 
God , I'm happy , War Paint cried . 
V Like neighing colts , playful when the rainy season begins , Demetrio's men galloped through the sierra . 
Let's go to Demetrio Macias' country ! To the country of Monico the cacique ! The landscape grew clearer the sun margined the diaphanous sky with a fringe of crimson . 
Like the bony shoulders of immense sleeping monsters , the chains of mountains rose in the distance . 
Crags there were like heads of colossal native idols others like giants' faces , their grimaces awe inspiring or grotesque , calling forth a smile or a shudder at a presentment of mystery . 
Demetrio Macias rode at the head of his men be hind him the members of his staff Colonel Anastasio Montanez , Lieutenant Colonel Pancracio , Majors Luis Cervantes and Blondie . 
Still further behind came War Paint with Venancio , who paid her many compliments and recited the despairing verses of Antonio Plaza . 
As the sun's rays began to slip from the housetops , they made their entrance into Moyahua , four abreast , to the sound of the bugle . 
The roosters' chorus was deafening , dogs barked their alarm , but not a living soul stirred on the streets . 
War Paint spurred her black horse and with one jump was abreast with Demetrio . 
They rode forward , elbow to elbow . 
She wore a silk dress and heavy gold earrings . 
Proudly her pale blue gown deepened her olive skin and the coppery spots on her face and arms . 
Riding astride , she had pulled her skirts up to her knees her stockings showed , filthy and full of runs . 
She wore a gun at her side , a cartridge belt hung over the pommel of her saddle . 
Demetrio was also dressed in his best clothes . 
His broad brimmed hat was richly embroidered his leather trousers were tight fitting and adorned with silver but tons his coat was embroidered with gold thread . 
There was a sound of doors being beaten down and forced open . 
The soldiers had already scattered through the town , to gather together ammunition and saddles from everywhere . 
We're going to bid Monico good morning , Deme trio said gravely , dismounting and tossing his bridle to one of his men . 
We're going to have breakfast with Don Monico , who's a particular friend of mine . 
a sinister , malign smile . 
Making their spurs ring against the pavement , they walked toward a large pretentious house , obviously that of a cacique . 
It's closed airtight , Anastasio Montanez said , push ing the door with all his might . 
I'll open it , Pancracio answered , lowering his rifle and pointing it at the lock . 
No , no , Demetrio said , knock first . 
Three blows with the butt of the rifle . 
He fires , smash ing the lock . 
Behind , a confusion of skirts and children's bare legs rushing to and fro , pell mell . 
Hey , there wine ! Demetrio cries in an imperious voice , pounding heavily on a table . 
A lady peeps out , another , a third from among black skirts , the heads of frightened children . 
One of the women , trembling , walks toward a cupboard and , taking out some glasses and a bottle , serves wine . 
What arms have you ? Demetrio demands harshly . 
? the lady answers , a taste of ashes on her tongue . 
We only know him by name ! Demetrio orders his men to search the house . 
We'll bring you whatever we have ourselves , but please for God's sake , don't do anything cruel . 
We're spinsters , lone women . 
Spinsters , hell ! What about these kids here ? Pan cracio interrupts brutally . 
Did they spring from the earth ? The women disappear hurriedly , to return with an old shotgun , covered with dust and cobwebs , and a pistol with rusty broken springs . 
All right , then , let's see the money . 
Money ? Money ? But what money do you think a couple of spinsters have ? Spinsters alone in the world . 
? They glance up in supplication at the nearest soldier but they are seized with horror . 
For they have just seen the Roman soldier who crucified Our Lord in the Via Crucis of the parish ! They have seen Pancracio ! Demetrio repeats his order to search . 
Once again the women disappear to return this time with a moth eaten wallet containing a few Huerta bills . 
Demetrio smiles and without further delay calls to his men to come in . 
Like hungry dogs who have sniffed their meat , the mob bursts in , trampling down the women who sought to bar the entrance with their bodies . 
Several faint , fall to the ground others flee in panic . 
Pancracio is about to break the lock of a huge ward robe when suddenly the doors open and out comes a man with a rifle in his hands . 
Senor Don Monico ! they all exclaim in surprise . 
Please , Senor Don Demetrio , my friend ! Demetrio with taut hand puts his gun back in the holster . 
A painful silhouette crosses his mind . 
He sees a woman with a child in her arms walking over the rocks of the sierra in the moonlight . 
Everybody outside ! he orders darkly . 
Monico and the ladies kiss his hands , weeping with gratitude . 
The mob in the street , talking and laughing , stands waiting for the general's permission to ransack the cacique's house . 
I know where they've buried their money but I won't tell , says a youngster with a basket in his hands . 
Hm ! I know the right place , mind you , says an old woman carrying a burlap sack to hold whatever the good Lord will provide . 
It's on top of something . 
there's a lot of trinkets nearby and then there's a small bag with mother of pearl around it . 
That's the thing to look for ! You ain't talking sense , woman , puts in a man . 
They ain't such fools as to leave silver lying loose like that . 
I'm thinking they've got it buried in the well , in a leather bag . 
The mob moves slowly some carry ropes to tie about their bundles , others wooden trays . 
The women open out their aprons or shawls calculating their capacity . 
All give thanks to Divine Providence as they wait for their share of the booty . 
Annoyed , Demetrio repeats this order . 
A young man , a recent recruit , his head turned by drink , laughs and walks boldly toward the door . 
But be fore he has reached the threshold , a shot lays him low . 
He falls like a bull pierced in the neck by the matador's sword . 
Motionless , his smoking gun in his hand , Deme trio waits for the soldiers to withdraw . 
Set fire to the house ! he orders Luis Cervantes when they reach their quarters . 
With a curious eagerness Luis Cervantes does not trans mit the order but undertakes the task in person . 
Two hours later when the city square was black with smoke and enormous tongues of fire rose from Monico's house , no one could account for the strange behavior of the general . 
VI They established themselves in a large gloomy house , which likewise belonged to the cacique of Moyahua . 
The previous occupants had already left strong evidences in the patio , which had been converted into a manure pile . 
From the entrance one stumbled over broken bits of chairs and other furniture covered with dirt . 
The drawing room was alone fur nished . 
As he entered , Demetrio , lying on the floor with his eyes wide open , trying to count the beams , gazed at him . 
It' s you , eh ? What's new ? Come on , sit down . 
Luis Cervantes first went over to trim the candle , then drew up a chair without a back , a coarse rag doing the duty of a wicker bottom . 
The legs of the chair squeaked . 
War Paint's black horse snorted and whirled its crupper in wide circles . 
Luis Cervantes sank into his seat . 
General , I wish to make my report . 
Look here , man , I didn't really want this done , you know . 
Moyahua is almost like my native town . 
They'll say this is why we've been fighting ! Demetrio said , look ing at the bulging sack of silver Cervantes was passing to him . 
Cervantes left his seat to squat down by Deme trio's side . 
He stretched a blanket over the floor and into it poured the ten peso pieces , shining , burning gold . 
First of all , General , only you and I know about this . 
Secondly , you know well enough that if the sun shines , you should open the window . 
It's shining in our faces now but what about tomorrow ? You should always look ahead . 
A bullet , a bolting horse , even a wretched cold in the head , and then there are a widow and orphans left in absolute want ! . 
The Govern ment ? Ha ! Ha ! . 
Just go see Carranza or Villa or any of the big chiefs and try and tell them about your family . 
If they answer with a kick you know where , they'll say they're giving you a handful of jewels . 
And they're right we did not rise up in arms to make some Carranza or Villa President of our Republic . 
No we fought to defend the sacred rights of the people against the tyranny of some vile cacique . 
Demetrio half stood up , grasped a bottle that stood nearby , drained it , then spat out the liquor , swelling out his cheeks . 
By God , my boy , you've certainly got the gift of gab ! Luis felt dizzy , faint . 
Demetrio's calloused hands shuffled through the bril liant coins , counting and counting . 
Recovering from his nausea , Luis Cervantes pulled out a small box of Fallieres phosphate and poured forth rings , brooches , pendants , and countless valuable jewels . 
, if the revolu tion keeps on , there's enough here already for us to live on abroad quite comfortably . 
You wouldn't do that ! Why not ? What are we staying on for ? . 
What cause are we defending now ? That's something I can't explain , Tenderfoot . 
But I'm thinking it wouldn't show much guts . 
Take your choice , General , said Luis Cervantes , pointing to the jewels which he had set in a row . 
Oh , you keep it all . 
You know , I don't really care for money at all . 
I'll tell you the truth ! I'm the happiest man in the world , so long as there's always something to drink and a nice little wench that catches my eye . 
Ha ! Ha ! You make the funniest jokes , General . 
Why do you stand for that snake of a War Paint , then ? I'll tell you , Tenderfoot , I'm fed up with her . 
But I'm like that I just can't tell her so . 
I'm not brave enough to tell her to go plumb to hell . 
There's Camilla at the ranch for instance . 
Now , she's not much on looks , I know , but there's a woman I'd like to have . 
Well , General , we'll go and get her any day you like . 
I promise you I'll do it . 
Are you sure ? Do you really mean it ? Look here , if you pull that off for me , I'll give you the watch and chain you're hankering after . 
He took the phosphate box , heavy with its contents , and stood up smiling . 
I'll see you tomorrow , he said . 
Good night , Gen eral ! Sleep well . 
VII I don't know any more about it than you do . 
The General told me , 'Quail , saddle your horse and my black mare and follow Cervantes he's going on an errand for me . 
Well , that's what happened . 
We left here at noon , and reached the ranch early that evening . 
One eyed Maria Antonia took us in . 
She asked after you , Pancracio . 
Next morning Luis Cervantes wakes me up . 
'Quail , Quail , saddle the horses . 
Leave me mine but take the General's mare back to Moyahua . 
I'll catch up after a bit . 
The sun was high when he arrived with Camilla . 
She got off and we stuck her on the General's mare . 
Well , and her ? What sort of a face did she make coming back ? one of the men inquired . 
Hum ! She was so damned happy she was gabbing all the way . 
And the tenderfoot ? Just as quiet as he always is , you know him . 
I think , Venancio expressed his opinion with great seriousness , that if Camilla woke up in the General's bed , it was just a mistake . 
We drank a lot , remember ! That alcohol went to our heads we must have lost our senses . 
What the hell do you mean alcohol ! It was all cooked up between Cervantes and the General . 
Certainly ! That city dude's nothing but a . 
They burst into guffaws of laughter . 
When War Paint realized what had happened , she sought out Camilla and spoke with great affection Poor little child ! Tell me how all this happened . 
Camilla's eyes were red from weeping . 
He lied to me ! He lied ! He came to the ranch and he told me , 'Camilla , I came just to get you . 
Do you want to go away with me ? You can be sure I wanted to go with him when it comes to loving , I adore him . 
Yes , I adore him . 
Look how thin I've grown just pin ing away for him . 
Mornings I used to loathe to grind corn , Mamma would call me to eat , and anything I put in my mouth had no taste at all . 
Once more she burst into tears , stuffing the corner of her apron into her mouth to drown her sobs . 
Look here , I'll help you out of this mess . 
Don't be silly , child , don't cry . 
Don't think about the dude any more ! Honest to God , he's not worth it . 
You surely know his game , dear ? . 
That's the only reason why the General stands for him . 
All right , you want to go back home ? The Holy Virgin protect me . 
My mother would beat me to death ! She'll do nothing of the sort . 
You and I can fix things . 
Listen ! The soldiers are leaving any moment now . 
When Demetrio tells you to get ready , you tell him you feel pains all over your body as though someone had hit you then you lie down and start yawning and shivering . 
Then put your hand on your forehead and say , 'I'm burning up with fever . 
I'll tell Demetrio to leave us both here , that I'll stay to take care of you , that as soon as you're feeling all right again , we'll catch up with them . 
But instead of that , I'll see that you get home safe and sound . 
Demetrio was engaged in getting drunk with his old comrades . 
The entire space before the bar was occupied . 
War Paint and Blondie had tied up their horses outside but the other officers had stormed in brutally , horses and all . 
Embroidered hats with enormous and concave brims bobbed up and down everywhere . 
The horses wheeled about , prancing tossing their restive heads their fine breed showing in their black eyes , their small ears and dilating nostrils . 
A trivial episode was being commented upon when Luis Cervantes came in . 
Opinion was at first divided but finally all concurred with Blondie's sound reasoning . 
The poor dead devil lying out there was the church sexton . 
Their faces were round and red as suns , their eyes popping , for they had been blowing on their brass instruments since dawn . 
General , Luis said pushing his way through the men on horseback , a messenger has arrived with orders to proceed immediately to the pursuit and capture of Orozco and his men . 
Faces that had been dark and gloomy were now il lumined with joy . 
To Jalisco , boys ! cried Blondie , pounding on the counter . 
Make ready , all you darling Jalisco girls of my heart , for I'm coming along too ! Quail shouted , twisting back the brim of his hat . 
The enthusiasm and rejoicing were general . 
Demetrio's friends , in the excitement of drunkenness , offered their services . 
Demetrio was so happy that he could scarcely speak . 
Camilla can't go ! said War Paint promptly . 
Who in hell asked for your opinion ? Demetrio re torted angrily . 
It's true , isn't it , Camilla ? You were sore all over , weren't you ? And you've got a fever right now ? Well anything Demetrio says . 
Don't be a fool ! say 'No , come on , say 'No , War Paint whispered nervously into Camilla's ear . 
I'll tell you , War Paint . 
It's funny , but I'm be ginning to fall for him . 
Would you believe it ! Ca milla whispered back . 
War Paint turned purple , her cheeks swelled . 
Without a word she went out to get her horse that Blondie was saddling . 
Demetrio and Camilla brought up the rear . 
She was still nervous , white lipped and parched he was angry at their futile maneuver . 
For there had been battles , no followers of Orozco's to be seen . 
A handful of Federals , routed . 
It's fun fighting this way , Manteca cried , spicing every other word with an oath . 
You know why the hell you're risking your hide . 
In the same hand with which he held the reins , he clutched a shining ornament that he had torn from one of the holy statues . 
After Quail , an expert in such matters , had examined Manteca's treasure covetously , he uttered a solemn guffaw . 
Hell , Your ornament is nothing but tin ! Why in hell are you hanging on to that poison ? Pancracio asked Blondie who appeared dragging a pris oner . 
Here , Anastasio , lend me your lasso . 
Mine's not strong enough this bird will bust it . 
No , by God , I've changed my mind , friend Federal think I'll kill you on the spot , because you are pulling too hard . 
The prisoner turned pale as a corpse his face lengthened his eyelids were fixed in a glassy stare . 
He breathed in agony , his whole body shook as with ague . 
Blondie kept his gun in the same position for a moment long as all eternity . 
An expression of supreme pleasure lit up his fat puffy face . 
No , friend Federal , he drawled , putting back his gun into the holster I'm not going to kill you just yet . 
I'll make you my orderly . 
You'll see that I'm not so hardhearted ! Slyly he winked at his companions . 
The prisoner had turned into an animal he gulped , panting , dry mouthed . 
Camilla , who had witnessed the scene , spurred her horse and caught up with Demetrio . 
What a brute that Blondie is you ought to see what he did to a wretched prisoner , she said . 
Then she told Demetrio what had occurred . 
The latter wrinkled his brow but made no answer . 
War Paint called Camilla aside . 
Camilla , frightened , hurried back to Demetrio's side . 
X The men camped in a meadow , near three small lone houses standing in a row , their white walls cutting the purple fringe of the horizon . 
Demetrio and Camilla rode toward them . 
Inside the corral a man , clad in shirt and trousers of cheap white cloth , sat greedily puffing at a cornhusk cigarette . 
Another man sitting beside him on a flat cut stone was shelling corn . 
Kicking the air with one dry , withered leg , the extremity of which was like a goat's hoof , he frightened the chickens away . 
Hurry up , 'Pifanio , said the man who was smoking , the sun has gone down already and you haven't taken the animals to water . 
A horse neighed outside the corral both men glanced up in amazement . 
Demetrio and Camilla were looking over the corral wall at them . 
I just want a place to sleep for my woman and me , Demetrio said reassuringly . 
He ran to fetch a broom and a pail of water to dust and wash the best corner of the hut as decent lodging for his distinguished guests . 
Here , 'Pifanio , go out there and unsaddle the horses . 
The man who was shelling corn stood up with an effort . 
He was clad in a tattered shirt and vest . 
His torn trousers , split at the seam , looked like the wings of a cold , stricken bird two strings of cloth dangled from his waist . 
As he walked , he described grotesque circles . 
Surely you're not fit to do any work ! Demetrio said , refusing to allow him to touch the saddles . 
Poor man , the owner cried from within the hut , he's lost all his strength . 
But he surely works for his pay . 
He starts working the minute God Almighty himself gets up , and it's after sundown now but he's working still ! Demetrio went out with Camilla for a stroll about the encampment . 
The meadow , golden , furrowed , stripped even of the smallest bushes , extended limitless in its im mense desolation . 
I don't know why but I feel there's a lot of sadness around here , said Demetrio . 
Yes , Camilla answered , I feel that way too . 
On the bank of a small stream , 'Pifanio was strenu ously tugging at a rope with a large can tied to the end of it . 
He poured a stream of water over a heap of fresh , cool grass in the twilight , the water glimmered like crys tal . 
A thin cow , a scrawny nag , and a burro drank noisily together . 
Demetrio recognized the limping servant and asked him How much do you get a day ? Eight cents a day , boss . 
He was an insignificant , scrofulous wraith of a man with green eyes and straight , fair hair . 
He whined com plaint of his boss , the ranch , his bad luck , his dog's life . 
You certainly earn your pay all right , my lad , De metrio interrupted kindly . 
You complain and complain , but you aren't no loafer , you work and work . 
Then , aside to Camilla There's always more damned fools in the valley than among us folk in the sierra , don't you think ? Of course ! she replied . 
The valley was lost in darkness stars came out . 
Demetrio put his arm around Camilla's waist amorously and whispered in her ear . 
Yes , she answered in a faint voice . 
She was indeed beginning to fall for him as she had expressed it . 
He flung out of the house very early . 
Something is going to happen to me , he thought . 
It was a silent dawn , with faint murmurs of joy . 
A thrush sang timidly in one of the ash trees . 
The animals in the corral trampled on the refuse . 
The pig grunted its somnolence . 
The orange tints of the sun streaked the sky the last star flickered out . 
Demetrio walked slowly to the encampment . 
He was thinking of his plow , his two black oxen young beasts they were , who had worked in the fields only two years of his two acres of well fertilized corn . 
But when he tried to conjure up the image of his son , his efforts were vain he had for gotten . 
Lying among the farrows , the soldiers slept with the horses , heads bowed , eyes closed . 
Our horses are pretty tired , Anastasio . 
I think we ought to stay here at least another day . 
Well , Compadre Demetrio , I'm hankering for the sierra . 
You may not believe me but nothing strikes me right here . 
I don't know what I miss but I know I miss something . 
How many hours' ride from here to Limon ? It's no matter of hours it's three days' hard riding , Demetrio . 
You know , Demetrio said softly , I feel as though I'd like to see my wife again ! Shortly after , War Paint sought out Camilla . 
That's one on you , my dear . 
Demetrio's going to leave you flat ! He told me so himself 'I'm going to get my real woman , he says , and he says , 'Her skin is white and tender . 
When Demetrio returned , Camilla , weeping , told him everything . 
Don't pay no attention to that crazy baggage . 
It's all lies , lies ! Since Demetrio did not go to Limon or remember his wife again , Camilla grew very happy . 
War Paint had merely stung herself , like a scorpion . 
XI Before dawn , they left for Tepatitlan . 
Dogs barked in the distance . 
By noon we'll reach Tepatitlan , Cuquio tomorrow , and then . 
on to the sierra ! Demetrio said . 
Don't you think it advisable to go to Aguascalientes first , General ? Luis Cervantes asked . 
What for ? Our funds are melting slowly . 
No ! We'll go straight to the sierra . 
Yes , to the sierra ! many of the men shouted . 
To the sierra ! To the sierra ! Hurrah for the moun tains ! The plains seemed to torture them they spoke with enthusiasm , almost with delirium , of the sierra . 
They thought of the mountains as of a most desirable mistress long since unvisited . 
Dawn broke behind a cloud of fine reddish dust the sun rose an immense curtain of fiery purple . 
Luis Cer vantes pulled his reins and waited for Quail . 
What's the last word on our deal , Quail ? I told you , Tenderfoot two hundred for the watch alone . 
No ! I'll buy the lot watches , rings , everything else . 
How much ? Quail hesitated , turned slightly pale then he cried spiritedly Two thousand in bills , for the whole business ! Luis Cervantes gave himself away . 
His eyes shone with such an obvious greed that Quail recanted and said Oh , I was just fooling you . 
I won't sell nothing ! Just the watch , see ? And that's only because I owe Pancracio two hundred . 
He beat me at cards last night ! Luis Cervantes pulled out four crisp double face bills of Villa's issue and placed them in Quail's hands . 
I'd like to buy the lot . 
He says he's too damned tired to walk . 
The prisoner had fallen in the middle of the road , ut terly exhausted . 
Well , well ! Blondie shouted , retracing his steps . 
So little mama's boy is tired , eh ? Poor little fellow . 
I'll buy a glass case and keep you in a corner of my house just as if you were the Virgin Mary's own little son . 
You've got to reach home first , see ? So I'll help you a little , sonny ! He drew his sword out and struck the prisoner several times . 
Let's have a look at your rope , Pancracio , he said . 
There was a strange gleam in his eyes . 
Quail observed that the prisoner no longer moved arm or leg . 
Blondie burst into a loud guffaw The Goddamned fool . 
From every window rosy cheeks , dark luminous eyes observed them . 
The schools were quickly converted into barracks Demetrio found lodging in the chapel of an abandoned church . 
The soldiers scattered about as usual pretending to seek arms and horses , but in reality for the sole purpose of looting . 
In the afternoon some of Demetrio's men lay stretched out on the church steps , scratching their bellies . 
Venan cio , his chest and shoulders bare , was gravely occupied in killing the fleas in his shirt . 
A man drew near the wall and sought permission to speak to the commander . 
The soldiers raised their heads but no one answered . 
I'm a widower , gentlemen . 
I've got nine children and I barely make a living with the sweat of my brow . 
She's only got one fault , Pancracio observed , stretched out on the ground , staring at the blue sky , she goes mad over any man she sees . 
They laughed loudly but Venancio with utmost gravity pointed to the chapel door . 
The stranger entered timidly and confided his troubles to Demetrio . 
The soldiers had cleaned him out they had not left a single grain of corn . 
Why did you let them ? Demetrio asked indolently . 
The man persisted , lamenting and weeping . 
Luis Cer vantes was about to throw him out with an insult . 
Come on , Demetrio , don't be harsh , give him an order to get his corn back . 
Luis Cervantes was obliged to obey he scrawled a few lines to which Demetrio appended an illegible scratch . 
May God repay you , my child ! God will lead you to heaven that you may enjoy his glory . 
Ten bushels of corn are barely enough for this year's food ! the man cried , weeping for gratitude . 
Then he took the paper , kissed everybody's hand , and withdrew . 
XII They had almost reached Cuquio , when Anastasio Montanez rode up to Demetrio Listen , Compadre , I almost forgot to tell you . 
You ought to have seen the wonderful joke that man Blondie played . 
'Right you are , brother , come in , said Blondie , 'come in , come in here to give you back what's yours is only the right thing to do . 
How many bushels did we steal ? Ten ? Sure it wasn't more than ten ? . 
That's right , about fifteen , eh ? Or was it twenty , perhaps ? . 
Try and remember , friend . 
Of course you're a poor man , aren't you , and you've a lot of kids to raise . 
Yes , twenty it was . 
All right , now ! It's not ten or fifteen or twenty I'm going to give you . 
You're going to count for yourself . 
One , two , three . 
and when you've had enough you just tell me and I'll stop . 
And Blondie pulled out his sword and beat him till he cried for mercy . 
War Paint rocked in her saddle , convulsed with mirth . 
Camilla , unable to control herself , blurted out The beast ! His heart's rotten to the core ! No wonder I loathe him ! At once War Paint's expression changed . 
What the hell is it to you ! she scowled . 
Camilla , frightened , spurred her horse forward . 
War Paint did like wise and , as she trotted past Camilla , suddenly she reached out , seized the other's hair and pulled with all her might . 
Camilla's horse shied Camilla , trying to brush her hair back from over her eyes , abandoned the reins . 
She hesitated , lost her balance and fell in the road , striking her forehead against the stones . 
War Paint , weeping with laughter , pressed on with ut most skill and caught Camilla's horse . 
Come on , Tenderfoot here's a job for you , Pan cracio said as he saw Camilla on Demetrio's saddle , her face covered with blood . 
In Cuquio Demetrio received a message . 
We've got to go back to Tepatitlan , General , said Luis Cervantes , scanning the dispatch rapidly . 
You've got to leave the men there while you go to Lagos and take the train over to Aguascalientes . 
There was much heated protest , the men muttering to themselves or even groaning out loud . 
Some of them , mountaineers , swore that they would not continue with the troop . 
On the morrow at dawn , she begged Demetrio to let her return home . 
If you don't like me , all right , he answered sullenly . 
I care for you a lot , really . 
But you know how it is . 
It's all right ! I'll send her off to hell today . 
I had already decided that . 
Every horse was saddled the men were waiting only for orders from the Chief . 
Demetrio went up to War Paint and said under his breath You're not coming with us . 
You're going to stay here or go wherever you damn well please , but you're not coming along with us . 
What ? What's that you're saying ? Still she could not catch Demetrio's meaning . 
Then the truth dawned upon her . 
You want to send me away ? By God , I suppose you believe all the filth that bitch . 
Demetrio waited a long time patiently . 
Then , as she showed no sign of stopping , he said to a soldier quite calmly Throw this drunken woman out . 
Blondie , Blondie , love of my life ! Help ! Come and show them you're a real man ! Show them they're nothing but sons of bitches ! . 
She gesticulated , kicked , and shouted . 
Blondie appeared he had just got up . 
His blue eyes blinked under heavy lids his voice rang hoarse . 
He asked what had occurred someone explained . 
So far as I'm con cerned , you can go straight to hell . 
We're all fed up with you , see ? War Paint's face turned to granite she tried to speak but her muscles were rigid . 
Camilla , terrified , held her breath . 
War Paint stared slowly at everyone about her . 
It all took no more than a few seconds . 
In a trice she bent down , drew a sharp , gleaming dagger from her stocking and leapt at Camilla . 
A body fell , the blood spurting from it . 
Kill her , Goddamn it , cried Demetrio , beyond him self . 
Demetrio picked up the dagger , red with blood , but his eyes clouded he hesitated , took a step backward . 
Then , with a heavy hoarse voice he growled , enraged Get out of here ! Quick ! No one dared stop her . 
She moved off slowly , mute , somber . 
Blondie's shrill , guttural voice broke the silent stupor Thank God ! At last I'm rid of that damned louse ! XIII Someone plunged a knife Deep in my side . 
Did he know why ? I don't know why . 
Maybe he knew , I never knew . 
The blood flowed out Of that mortal wound . 
Did he know why ? I don't know why . 
Maybe he knew , I never knew . 
His head lowered , his hands crossed over the pommel of his saddle , Demetrio in melancholy accents sang the strains of the intriguing song . 
Then he fell silent for quite a while he continued to feel oppressed and sad . 
You'll see , as soon as we reach Lagos you'll come out of it , General . 
There's plenty of pretty girls to give us a good time , Blondie said . 
Right now I feel like getting damn drunk , Deme trio answered , spurring his horse forward and leaving them as if he wished to abandon himself entirely to his sadness . 
After many hours of riding he called Cervantes . 
At last they reached Lagos . 
Blondie bet that he would make Demetrio laugh that evening . 
Trailing his spurs noisily over the pavement , Deme trio entered El Cosmopolita with Luis Cervantes , Blondie , and his assistants . 
The civilians , surprised in their attempt to escape , re mained where they were . 
Some feigned to return to their tables to continue drinking and talking others hesitantly stepped up to present their respects to the commander . 
General , so pleased ! . 
Major ! Delighted to meet you ! That's right ! I love refined and educated friends , Blondie said . 
Come on , boys , he added , jovially draw ing his gun , I'm going to play a tune that'll make you all dance . 
Pale as ghosts , they conjured up wan smiles of obsequious ap proval . 
Demetrio barely parted his lips , but his followers doubled over with laughter . 
Look , Blondie , Quail shouted , look at that man going out there . 
I guess the bee stung him all right . 
Blondie , without turning to look at the wounded man , announced with enthusiasm that he could shoot off the top of a tequila bottle at thirty paces without aiming . 
Come on , friend , stand up , he said to the waiter . 
He dragged him out by the hand to the patio of the hotel and set a tequila bottle on his head . 
Insane with fright , he sought to escape , but Blondie pulled his gun and took aim . 
The bottle broke into bits , the alcohol poured over the lad's ghastly face . 
Now it's a go , cried Blondie , running to the bar to get another bottle , which he placed on the lad's head . 
He returned to his former position , he whirled about , and shot without aiming . 
But he hit the waiter's ear in stead of the bottle . 
Holding his sides with laughter , he said to the young waiter Here , kid , take these bills . 
But you'll be all right with some alcohol and arnica . 
After drinking a great deal of alcohol and beer , Deme trio spoke Pay the bill , Blondie , I'm going to leave you . 
I ain't got a penny , General , but that's all right . 
How much do we owe you , friend ? One hundred and eighty pesos , Chief , the bartender answered amiably . 
Quickly , Blondie jumped behind the bar and with a sweep of both arms , knocked down all the glasses and bottles . 
Send the bill to General Villa , understand ? He left , laughing loudly at his prank . 
Say there , you , where do the girls hang out ? Blondie asked , reeling up drunkenly toward a small well dressed man , standing at the door of a tailor shop . 
The man stepped down to the sidewalk politely to let Blondie pass . 
Blondie stopped and looked at him curiously , im pertinently . 
Little boy , you're very small and dainty , ain't you ? . 
Then I'm a liar ! . 
You know the puppet dance . 
You don't ? The hell you don't ! . 
I met you in a circus ! I know you can even dance on a tightrope ! . 
You watch ! Blondie drew his gun out and began to shoot , aiming at the tailor's feet the tailor gave a little jump at every pull of the trigger . 
Demetrio left him and returned to the hotel , singing to himself Someone plunged a knife Deep in my side . 
Did he know why ? I don't know why . 
Maybe he knew , I never knew . 
XIV Stale cigarette smoke , the acrid odors of sweaty clothing , the vapors of alcohol , the breathing of a crowded multitude , worse by far than a trainful of pigs . 
Texas hats , adorned with gold braid , and khaki pre dominate . 
Gentlemen , a well dressed man stole my suit case in the station . 
What the hell is the old woman talking about ? Blondie asks , entering in search of a seat . 
and a well dressed man , Pancracio replies . 
He has already the laps of two civilians to sit on . 
Demetrio and the others elbow their way in . 
Since those on whom Pancracio had sat preferred to stand up , Demetrio and Luis Cervantes quickly seize the vacant seats . 
Suddenly a woman who has stood up holding a child all the way from Irapuato , faints . 
A civilian takes the child in his arms . 
The others pretend to have seen noth ing . 
Some women , traveling with the soldiers , occupy two or three seats with baggage , dogs , cats , parrots . 
Some of the men wearing Texan hats laugh at the plump arms and pendulous breasts of the woman who fainted . 
Gentlemen , a well dressed man stole my suitcase at the station in Silao ! All my life's savings . 
I haven't got enough to feed my little boy now ! . 
The old woman speaks rapidly , parrotlike , sighing and sobbing . 
Her sharp eyes peer about on all sides . 
Here she gets a bill , and further on , another . 
They shower money upon her . 
She finishes the collection , and goes a few seats ahead . 
Gentlemen , a well dressed man stole my suitcase in the station at Silao . 
Her words produce an immediate and certain effect . 
A well dressed man , a dude , a tenderfoot , stealing a suitcase ! Amazing , phenomenal ! It awakens a feeling of universal indignation . 
And I'm telling you the truth , Blondie declares . 
Don't think it's wrong to kill , because when you kill , it's always out of anger . 
But stealing Bah ! This profound piece of reasoning meets with unani mous assent . 
'You won't have a worry in all your life after this . 
But ask any one of my partners how much profit I've got . 
Decks of cards gradually appear on the seats , drawing generals and of ficers as the light draws mosquitoes . 
The excitement of gambling soon absorbs every in terest , the heat grows more and more intense . 
To breathe is to inhale the air of barracks , prison , brothel , and pigsty all in one . 
And rising above the babble , from the car ahead ever the shrill voice , Gentlemen , a well dressed young man stole . 
The streets in Aguascalientes were so many refuse piles . 
The smell of these viands whetted the appetites of Demetrio and his men . 
They paid two pesos apiece as they left Pancracio assured his comrades he was hungrier than when he entered . 
Now , said Demetrio , we'll go and consult with General Natera ! They made for the northern leader's billet . 
A noisy , excited crowd stopped them at a street cross ing . 
A man , lost in the multitude , was mouthing words in the monotonous , unctuous tones of a prayer . 
Thus they will be immune from storms and pestilence , famine , and war . 
This man's no fool , said Demetrio smiling . 
Then he would duck for a moment , to reappear with a snake's tooth , a sea star , or the skeleton of a fish . 
In the same predicant tone , he lauded the medical virtues and the mystical powers of every article he sold . 
Quail , who had no faith in Venancio , requested the man to pull a tooth out . 
Blondie purchased a black seed from a certain fruit which protected the possessor from lightning or any other catastrophe . 
Anastasio Montanez purchased a prayer to Christ Our Lord upon the Cross , and , folding it carefully , stuck it into his shirt with a pious gesture . 
As sure as there's a God in heaven , Natera said , this mess hasn't blown over yet . 
Now it's Villa fighting Carranza . 
Without answering him , his eyes fixed in a stare , Demetrio demanded a further explanation . 
It means , Natera said , that the Convention won't recognize Carranza as First Chief of the Constitutionalist Army . 
It's going to elect a Provisional President of the Republic . 
Do you understand me , General ? Demetrio nodded assent . 
What's your opinion , General ? asked Natera . 
Good , but on what side ? Demetrio , nonplussed , scratched his head Look here , don't ask me any more questions . 
I never went to school , you know . 
As you already know , I was graduated last De cember . 
I was sorry to hear of Pancracio's and Manteca's fate , though I am not surprised that they stabbed each other over the gambling table . 
It is a pity they were both brave men . 
You know I like you very much , Venancio and I think you de serve a better fate . 
But I have an idea which may prove profitable to both of us and which may improve your social position , as you desire . 
We could do a fine busi ness here if we were to go in as partners and set up a typical Mexican restaurant in this town . 
You can appear as the owner we will make a monthly division of profits . 
Besides , con cerning a question that interests us both very much , namely , your social improvement , it occurs to me that you play the guitar quite well . 
Don't hesitate , Venancio , come at once and bring your funds . 
I promise you we'll get rich in no time . 
My best wishes to the General , to Anastasio , and the rest of the boys . 
They ascended the steep hill , their heads bowed , pen sive , their horses walking at a slow gait . 
Stubbornly restless , Anastasio made the same observation to other groups the soldiers laughed at his candor . 
If a man has a rifle in his hands and a beltful of cartridges , surely he should use them . 
Against whom ? For whom ? That is scarcely a matter of importance . 
The endless wavering column of dust moved up the trail , a swirling ant heap of broad straw sombreros , dirty khaki , faded blankets , and black horses . 
Not a man but was dying of thirst no pool or stream or well anywhere along the road . 
A wave of dust rose from the white , wild sides of a small canyon , swayed mistily on the hoary crest of huizache trees and the green ish stumps of cactus . 
Like a jest , the flowers in the cac tus opened out , fresh , solid , aflame , some thorny , others diaphanous . 
At noon they reached a hut , clinging to the precipi tous sierra , then three more huts strewn over the margin of a river of burnt sand . 
Everything was silent , desolate . 
As soon as they saw men on horseback , the people in the huts scurried into the hills to hide . 
Bring me anyone you find hiding or running away , he commanded in a loud voice . 
What ? What did you say ? Valderrama cried in sur prise . 
The mountaineers , he said solemnly and emphati cally , are flesh of our flesh , bone of our bone . 
Os ex osibus meis et caro de carne mea . 
Mountaineers are made from the same timber we're made of ! Of the same sound timber from which heroes . 
With a confidence as sudden as it was courageous , he hit the General across the chest . 
But the General did not countermand his order . 
Some soldiers brought back four fugitives , captive and bound . 
II WHY do you hide ? Demetrio asked the prisoners . 
We're not hiding , Chief , we're hitting the trail . 
Where to ? To our own homes , in God's name , to Durango . 
Is this the road to Durango ? Peaceful people can't travel over the main road nowadays , you know that , Chief . 
You're not peaceful people , you're deserters . 
Where do you come from ? Demetrio said , eyeing them with keen scrutiny . 
The prisoners grew confused they looked at each other hesitatingly , unable to give a prompt answer . 
They're Carranzistas , one of the soldiers said . 
Carranzistas hell ! one of them said proudly . 
I'd rather be a pig . 
The truth is we're deserters , another said . 
After the defeat we deserted from General Villa's troops this side of Celaya . 
General Villa defeated ? Ha ! Ha ! That's a good joke . 
But Demetrio's brow was wrinkled as though a black shadow had passed over his eyes . 
There ain't a son of a bitch on earth who can beat General Villa ! said a bronzed veteran with a scar clear across the face . 
Without a change of expression , one of the deserters stared persistently at him and said I know who you are . 
When we took Torreon you were with General Urbina . 
In Zacatecas you were with General Natera and then you shifted to the Jalisco troops . 
Am I lying ? These words met with a sudden and definite effect . 
The prisoners gave a detailed account of the tremendous defeat of Villa at Celaya . 
Demetrio's men listened in silence , stupefied . 
Before resuming their march , they built a fire on which to roast some bull meat . 
Anastasio Montanez , searching for food among the huizache trees , descried the close cropped neck of Valderrama's horse in the distance among the rocks . 
Hey ! Come here , you fool , after all there ain't been no gravy ! he shouted . 
Whenever anything was said about shooting someone , Valderrama , the romantic poet , would disappear for a whole day . 
Hearing Anastasio's voice , Valderrama was convinced that the prisoners had been set at liberty . 
A few mo ments later , he was joined by Venancio and Demetrio . 
Heard the news ? Venancio asked gravely . 
A terrible mess ! Villa was beaten at Celaya by Obregon and Carranza is winning all along the line ! We're done for ! Valderrama's gesture was disdainful and solemn as an emperor's . 
I like this crazy fool , Demetrio said with a smile . 
He says things sometimes that make you think . 
They resumed their march their uncertainty translated into a lugubrious silence . 
Slowly , inevitably , the catastro phe must come it was even now being realized . 
Villa defeated was a fallen god when gods cease to be omnipotent , they are nothing . 
When one of the officers found a barrel of tequila , the event assumed miraculous propor tions . 
Everything was conducted with secrecy and care deep mystery was preserved to oblige the soldiers to leave on the morrow before sunrise under Anastasio and Venancio . 
If there are some days when a duck can swim , there's others when he can't take a drink . 
The string musicians played all day the most solemn honors were paid to the barrel but Demetrio was very sad . 
Did he know why ? I don't know why . 
He kept repeating the same refrain . 
In the afternoon there were cockfights . 
Valderrama , Demetrio called , looking away from the ring with tired eyes , come and sing me a song sing 'The Undertaker . 
But Valderrama did not hear him he had no eyes for the fight he was reciting an impassioned soliloquy as he watched the sunset over the hills . 
Come and sing 'The Undertaker' song for me . 
Hey , crazy , the General is calling you , an officer shouted . 
Valderrama with his eternally complacent smile went over to Demetrio's seat and asked the musicians for a guitar . 
Silence , the gamesters cried . 
Valderrama finished tuning his instrument . 
Quail and Meco let loose on the sand a pair of cocks armed with long sharp blades attached to their legs . 
One was light red his feathers shone with beautiful obsidian glints . 
The other was sand colored with feathers like scales burned slowly to a fiery copper color . 
The fight was swift and fierce as a duel between men . 
As though moved by springs , the roosters flew at each other . 
Their feathers stood up on their arched necks their combs were erect , their legs taut . 
For an instant they swung in the air without even touching the ground , their feathers , beaks , and claws lost in a dizzy whirl wind . 
The red rooster suddenly broke , tossed with his legs to heaven outside the chalk lines . 
His vermilion eyes closed slowly , revealing eyelids of pink coral his tangled feathers quivered and shook convulsively amid a pool of blood . 
Valderrama , who could not repress a gesture of violent indignation , began to play . 
With the first melancholy strains of the tune , his anger disappeared . 
His eyes gleamed with the light of madness . 
His glance strayed over the square , the tumbled kiosk , the old adobe houses , over the mountains in the background , and over the sky , burning like a roof afire . 
He put such feeling into his voice and such expression into the strings that , as he finished , Demetrio turned his head aside to hide his tears . 
But Valderrama fell upon him , embraced him warmly , and with a familiarity he showed everyone at the ap propriate moment , he whispered Drink them ! . 
Demetrio asked for the bottle , passed it to Valder rama . 
Some of the soldiers , gazing at the spire of the church , sighed sadly . 
They marched forward through the canyon , uncertain , unsteady , as blind men walking without a hand to guide them . 
The bitterness of the exodus pervaded them . 
Is that town Juchipila ? Valderrama asked . 
The traces of the first blood shed by the revolutionists of , murdered by the Government . 
Before Juchipila was lost from sight , Valderrama got off his horse , bent down , kneeled , and gravely kissed the ground . 
The soldiers passed by without stopping . 
Some laughed at the crazy man , others jested . 
Because they had no time to be bad ! an ex Federal officer interjected as he rode . 
Interrupting his prayer , Valderrama frowned , burst into stentorian laughter , reechoed by the rocks , and ran to ward the officer begging for a swallow of tequila . 
Soldiers minus an arm or leg , cripples , rheumatics , and consumptives spoke bitterly of Demetrio . 
The few remaining offi cers among Demetrio's friends also grumbled , because his staff was made up of wealthy , dapper young men who oiled their hair and used perfume . 
See here , brothers , he said , I spits out the truth when I sees something . 
I always tell the boss that if these people stick to us very long we'll be in a hell of a fix . 
Certainly ! How can anyone think otherwise ? I've no hair on my tongue and by the mother that bore me , I'm going to tell Demetrio so myself . 
Demetrio listened benevolently , and , when Anastasio had finished , he replied You're right , there's no gettin' around it , we're in a bad way . 
I guess we're in the same fix as that peon from Tepatitlan who com plained about his boss all day long but worked on just the same . 
We kick and kick , but we keep on killing and killing . 
But there's no use in saying anything to them ! Why , Demetrio ? Hm , I don't know . 
What we've got to do is to make the men toe the mark . 
I've got orders to stop a band of men coming through Cuquio , see ? In a few days we'll have to fight the Carranzistas . 
It will be great to beat the hell out of them . 
Valderrama , the tramp , who had enlisted in Deme trio's army one day without anyone remembering the time or the place , overheard some of Demetrio's words . 
Fools do not eat fire . 
That very day Valderrama disap peared mysteriously as he had come . 
V They entered the streets of Juchipila as the church bells rang , loud and joyfully , with that peculiar tone that thrills every mountaineer . 
They don't like us no more , Demetrio returned . 
We're crawling back like a dog with its tail between its legs , Quail remarked . 
It ain't that , I guess . 
They don't give a whoop for the other side either . 
But why should they like us ? They spoke no more . 
Presently they reached the city square and stopped in front of an octagonal , rough , massive church , reminis cent of the colonial period . 
At one time the square must have been a garden , judging from the bare stunted orange trees planted between iron and wooden benches . 
The sonorous , joyful bells rang again . 
From within the church , the honeyed voices of a female chorus rose melancholy and grave . 
To the strains of a guitar , the young girls of the town sang the Mysteries . 
What's the fiesta , lady ? Venancio asked of an old woman who was running toward the church . 
The Sacred Heart of Jesus ! answered the pious woman , panting . 
They remembered that one year ago they had captured Zacatecas . 
Juchipila , like the other towns they had passed through on their way from Tepic , by way of Jalisco , Aguasca lientes and Zacatecas , was in ruins . 
The black trail of the incendiaries showed in the roofless houses , in the burnt arcades . 
In vain the soldiers scoured the streets in search of food , biting their lips in anger . 
A single lunch room was open at once they filled it . 
No beans , no tor tillas , only chili and tomato sauce . 
VI Demetrio Macias' wife , mad with joy , rushed along the trail to meet him , leading a child by the hand . 
An absence of almost two years ! They embraced each other and stood speechless . 
Demetrio stared in astonishment at his wife who seemed to have aged ten or twenty years . 
Then he looked at the child who gazed up at him in sur prise . 
His heart leaped to his mouth as he saw in the child's features his own steel features and fiery eyes ex actly reproduced . 
He wanted to hold him in his arms , but the frightened child took refuge in his mother's skirts . 
It's your own father , baby ! It's your daddy ! The child hid his face within the folds of his mother's skirt , still hostile . 
Demetrio handed the reins of his horse to his orderly and walked slowly along the steep trail with his wife and son . 
Blessed be the Virgin Mary , Praise be to God ! Now you'll never leave us any more , will you ? Never . 
You'll stay with us always ? Demetrio's face grew dark . 
Both remained silent , lost in anguish . 
Memories crowded and buzzed through his brain like bees about a hive . 
A black cloud rose behind the sierra and a deafening roar of thunder resounded . 
The rain began to fall in heavy drops they sought refuge in a rocky hut . 
The rain came pelting down , shattering the white Saint John roses clustered like sheaves of stars clinging to tree , rock , bush , and pitaya over the entire mountainside . 
For God's sake , don't go away ! My heart tells me something will happen to you this time . 
Again she was wracked with sobs . 
The child , fright ened , cried and screamed . 
To calm him , she controlled her own great grief . 
Why do you keep on fighting , Demetrio ? Demetrio frowned deeply . 
Picking up a stone absent mindedly , he threw it to the bottom of the canyon . 
Then he stared pensively into the abyss , watching the arch of its flight . 
Look at that stone how it keeps on going . 
VII It was a heavenly morning . 
It had rained all night , the sky awakened covered with white clouds . 
Young wild colts trotted on the summit of the sierra , with tense manes and waving hair , proud as the peaks lifting their heads to the clouds . 
The soldiers stepped among the huge rocks , buoyed up by the happiness of the morning . 
None for a moment dreamed of the treacherous bullet that might be awaiting him ahead the unforeseen provides man with his greatest joy . 
The soldiers sang , laughed , and chattered away . 
The spirit of nomadic tribes stirred their souls . 
Trees , brush , and cactus shone fresh after rain . 
Heavy drops of limpid water fell from rocks , ocher in hue as rusty armor . 
Demetrio Macias' men grew silent for a moment . 
They believed they heard the familiar rumor of firing in the distance . 
A few minutes elapsed but the sound was not repeated . 
In this same sierra , Demetrio said , with but twenty men I killed five hundred Federals . 
Remember , Anasta sio ? As Demetrio began to tell that famous exploit , the men realized the danger they were facing . 
The recruits turned back hurriedly , retreating in shameful flight , searching for a way out of the canyon . 
A curse broke from Demetrio's parched lips . 
Shoot any man who runs away ! Storm the hill ! he thundered like a wild beast . 
But the enemy , lying in ambush by the thousand , opened up its machine gun fire . 
Demetrio's men fell like wheat under the sickle . 
Tears of rage and pain rise to Demetrio's eyes as Anastasio slowly slides from his horse without a sound , and lies outstretched , motionless . 
Venancio falls close beside him , his chest riddled with bullets . 
Meco hurtles over the precipice , bounding from rock to rock . 
Suddenly , Demetrio finds himself alone . 
Bullets whiz past his ears like hail . 
He dismounts and crawls over the rocks , until he finds a parapet he lays down a stone to protect his head and , lying flat on the ground , begins to shoot . 
The enemy scatter in all directions , pursuing the few fugitives hiding in the brush . 
Demetrio aims he does not waste a single shot . 
His famous marksmanship fills him with joy . 
Where he settles his glance , he settles a bullet . 
He loads his gun once more . 
The smoke of the guns hangs thick in the air . 
Locusts chant their mysterious , imperturbable song . 
Doves coo lyrically in the crannies of the rocks . 
The sierra is clad in gala colors . 
Over its inaccessible peaks the opalescent fog settles like a snowy veil on the forehead of a bride . 
