Three Men in a Boat Jerome K. Jerome Scanned and First Proof David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Second proof Margaret Price THREE MEN IN A BOAT . 
Three Men in a Boat by Jerome K. Jerome CHAPTER I. THREE INVALIDS . 
SUFFERINGS OF GEORGE AND HARRIS . 
A VICTIM TO ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN FATAL MALADIES . 
CURE FOR LIVER COMPLAINT IN CHILDREN . 
WE AGREE THAT WE ARE OVERWORKED , AND NEED REST . 
A WEEK ON THE ROLLING DEEP ? GEORGE SUGGESTS THE RIVER . 
ORIGINAL MOTION CARRIED BY MAJORITY OF THREE TO ONE . 
THERE were four of us George , and William Samuel Harris , and myself , and Montmorency . 
We were sitting in my room , smoking , and talking about how bad we were bad from a medical point of view I mean , of course . 
We were all feeling seedy , and we were getting quite nervous about it . 
With me , it was my liver that was out of order . 
The diagnosis seems in every case to correspond exactly with all the sensations that I have ever felt . 
I remember going to the British Museum one day to read up the treatment for some slight ailment of which I had a touch hay fever , I fancy it was . 
I sat for awhile , frozen with horror and then , in the listlessness of despair , I again turned over the pages . 
I came to typhoid fever read the symptoms discovered that I had typhoid fever , must have had it for months without knowing it wondered what else I had got turned up St . 
Bright's disease , I was relieved to find , I had only in a modified form , and , so far as that was concerned , I might live for years . 
Cholera I had , with severe complications and diphtheria I seemed to have been born with . 
I plodded conscientiously through the twenty six letters , and the only malady I could conclude I had not got was housemaid's knee . 
I felt rather hurt about this at first it seemed somehow to be a sort of slight . 
Why hadn't I got housemaid's knee ? Why this invidious reservation ? After a while , however , less grasping feelings prevailed . 
I reflected that I had every other known malady in the pharmacology , and I grew less selfish , and determined to do without housemaid's knee . 
Gout , in its most malignant stage , it would appear , had seized me without my being aware of it and zymosis I had evidently been suffering with from boyhood . 
There were no more diseases after zymosis , so I concluded there was nothing else the matter with me . 
I was a hospital in myself . 
All they need do would be to walk round me , and , after that , take their diploma . 
Then I wondered how long I had to live . 
I tried to examine myself . 
I could not at first feel any pulse at all . 
Then , all of a sudden , it seemed to start off . 
I pulled out my watch and timed it . 
I made it a hundred and forty seven to the minute . 
I tried to feel my heart . 
I could not feel my heart . 
I have since been induced to come to the opinion that it must have been there all the time , and must have been beating , but I cannot account for it . 
But I could not feel or hear anything . 
I tried to look at my tongue . 
I stuck it out as far as ever it would go , and I shut one eye , and tried to examine it with the other . 
I could only see the tip , and the only thing that I could gain from that was to feel more certain than before that I had scarlet fever . 
I had walked into that reading room a happy , healthy man . 
I crawled out a decrepit wreck . 
I went to my medical man . 
What a doctor wants , I said , is practice . 
He will get more practice out of me than out of seventeen hundred of your ordinary , commonplace patients , with only one or two diseases each . 
Life is brief , and you might pass away before I had finished . 
But I will tell you what is NOT the matter with me . 
I have not got housemaid's knee . 
Why I have not got housemaid's knee , I cannot tell you but the fact remains that I have not got it . 
Everything else , however , I HAVE got . 
And I told him how I came to discover it all . 
After that , he sat down and wrote out a prescription , and folded it up and gave it me , and I put it in my pocket and went out . 
I did not open it . 
I took it to the nearest chemist's , and handed it in . 
The man read it , and then handed it back . 
He said he didn't keep it . 
I said You are a chemist ? He said I am a chemist . 
If I was a co operative stores and family hotel combined , I might be able to oblige you . 
Being only a chemist hampers me . 
ten mile walk every morning . 
bed at sharp every night . 
And don't stuff up your head with things you don't understand . 
I followed the directions , with the happy result speaking for myself that my life was preserved , and is still going on . 
What I suffer in that way no tongue can tell . 
From my earliest infancy I have been a martyr to it . 
As a boy , the disease hardly ever left me for a day . 
They did not know , then , that it was my liver . 
Medical science was in a far less advanced state than now , and they used to put it down to laziness . 
And they didn't give me pills they gave me clumps on the side of the head . 
And , strange as it may appear , those clumps on the head often cured me for the time being . 
You know , it often is so those simple , old fashioned remedies are sometimes more efficacious than all the dispensary stuff . 
We sat there for half an hour , describing to each other our maladies . 
George FANCIES he is ill but there's never anything really the matter with him , you know . 
At this point , Mrs. Poppets knocked at the door to know if we were ready for supper . 
We smiled sadly at one another , and said we supposed we had better try to swallow a bit . 
This duty done , we refilled our glasses , lit our pipes , and resumed the discussion upon our state of health . 
What we want is rest , said Harris . 
Rest and a complete change , said George . 
The overstrain upon our brains has produced a general depression throughout the system . 
Change of scene , and absence of the necessity for thought , will restore the mental equilibrium . 
George has a cousin , who is usually described in the charge sheet as a medical student , so that he naturally has a somewhat family physicianary way of putting things . 
Harris said he thought it would be humpy . 
No , said Harris , if you want rest and change , you can't beat a sea trip . 
I objected to the sea trip strongly . 
A sea trip does you good when you are going to have a couple of months of it , but , for a week , it is wicked . 
You start on Monday with the idea implanted in your bosom that you are going to enjoy yourself . 
On Tuesday , you wish you hadn't come . 
On Wednesday , Thursday , and Friday , you wish you were dead . 
On Sunday , you begin to walk about again , and take solid food . 
And on Monday morning , as , with your bag and umbrella in your hand , you stand by the gunwale , waiting to step ashore , you begin to thoroughly like it . 
I remember my brother in law going for a short sea trip once , for the benefit of his health . 
He took a return berth from London to Liverpool and when he got to Liverpool , the only thing he was anxious about was to sell that return ticket . 
He himself my brother in law came back by train . 
He said the North Western Railway was healthy enough for him . 
The steward recommended the latter course , as it would come so much cheaper . 
He said they would do him for the whole week at two pounds five . 
He said for breakfast there would be fish , followed by a grill . 
Lunch was at one , and consisted of four courses . 
Dinner at six soup , fish , entree , joint , poultry , salad , sweets , cheese , and dessert . 
And a light meat supper at ten . 
Lunch came just as they were off Sheerness . 
He didn't feel so hungry as he thought he should , and so contented himself with a bit of boiled beef , and some strawberries and cream . 
Neither the beef nor the strawberries and cream seemed happy , either seemed discontented like . 
At six , they came and told him dinner was ready . 
And they ran him up quick , and propped him up , over to leeward , and left him . 
and soda water but , towards Saturday , he got uppish , and went in for weak tea and dry toast , and on Monday he was gorging himself on chicken broth . 
He left the ship on Tuesday , and as it steamed away from the landing stage he gazed after it regretfully . 
There she goes , he said , there she goes , with two pounds' worth of food on board that belongs to me , and that I haven't had . 
He said that if they had given him another day he thought he could have put it straight . 
So I set my face against the sea trip . 
Not , as I explained , upon my own account . 
But I was afraid for George . 
Sometimes it was he and the second mate who were not ill but it was generally he and one other man . 
If not he and another man , then it was he by himself . 
It is a curious fact , but nobody ever is sea sick on land . 
Where the thousands upon thousands of bad sailors that swarm in every ship hide themselves when they are on land is a mystery . 
If most men were like a fellow I saw on the Yarmouth boat one day , I could account for the seeming enigma easily enough . 
It was just off Southend Pier , I recollect , and he was leaning out through one of the port holes in a very dangerous position . 
I went up to him to try and save him . 
Hi ! come further in , I said , shaking him by the shoulder . 
Oh my ! I wish I was , was the only answer I could get and there I had to leave him . 
Three weeks afterwards , I met him in the coffee room of a Bath hotel , talking about his voyages , and explaining , with enthusiasm , how he loved the sea . 
Good sailor ! he replied in answer to a mild young man's envious query well , I did feel a little queer ONCE , I confess . 
It was off Cape Horn . 
The vessel was wrecked the next morning . 
I said Weren't you a little shaky by Southend Pier one day , and wanted to be thrown overboard ? Southend Pier ! he replied , with a puzzled expression . 
Yes going down to Yarmouth , last Friday three weeks . 
Oh , ah yes , he answered , brightening up I remember now . 
I did have a headache that afternoon . 
It was the pickles , you know . 
They were the most disgraceful pickles I ever tasted in a respectable boat . 
Did you have any ? For myself , I have discovered an excellent preventive against sea sickness , in balancing myself . 
You stand in the centre of the deck , and , as the ship heaves and pitches , you move your body about , so as to keep it always straight . 
When the front of the ship rises , you lean forward , till the deck almost touches your nose and when its back end gets up , you lean backwards . 
This is all very well for an hour or two but you can't balance yourself for a week . 
George said Let's go up the river . 
and the hard work would give us a good appetite , and make us sleep well . 
Harris said he didn't think George ought to do anything that would have a tendency to make him sleepier than he always was , as it might be dangerous . 
It seems to suit everybody , however , which is greatly to its credit . 
The only one who was not struck with the suggestion was Montmorency . 
He never did care for the river , did Montmorency . 
It's all very well for you fellows , he says you like it , but I don't . 
There's nothing for me to do . 
Scenery is not in my line , and I don't smoke . 
If I see a rat , you won't stop and if I go to sleep , you get fooling about with the boat , and slop me overboard . 
If you ask me , I call the whole thing bally foolishness . 
We were three to one , however , and the motion was carried . 
PLEASURES OF CAMPING OUT , ON FINE NIGHTS . 
MONTMORENCY , FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF . 
FEARS LEST HE IS TOO GOOD FOR THIS WORLD , FEARS SUBSEQUENTLY DISMISSED AS GROUNDLESS . 
WE pulled out the maps , and discussed plans . 
We arranged to start on the following Saturday from Kingston . 
, would meet us there . 
Should we camp out or sleep at inns ? George and I were for camping out . 
We said it would be so wild and free , so patriarchal like . 
Slowly the golden memory of the dead sun fades from the hearts of the cold , sad clouds . 
Then we run our little boat into some quiet nook , and the tent is pitched , and the frugal supper cooked and eaten . 
Harris said How about when it rained ? You can never rouse Harris . 
There is no poetry about Harris no wild yearning for the unattainable . 
Harris never weeps , he knows not why . 
If Harris's eyes fill with tears , you can bet it is because Harris has been eating raw onions , or has put too much Worcester over his chop . 
Now , you come along with me . 
I know a place round the corner here , where you can get a drop of the finest Scotch whisky you ever tasted put you right in less than no time . 
Harris always does know a place round the corner where you can get something brilliant in the drinking line . 
, he would immediately greet you with So glad you've come , old fellow I've found a nice place round the corner here , where you can get some really first class nectar . 
In the present instance , however , as regarded the camping out , his practical view of the matter came as a very timely hint . 
Camping out in rainy weather is not pleasant . 
You are wet through , and there is a good two inches of water in the boat , and all the things are damp . 
It is soaked and heavy , and it flops about , and tumbles down on you , and clings round your head and makes you mad . 
The rain is pouring steadily down all the time . 
It is difficult enough to fix a tent in dry weather in wet , the task becomes herculean . 
Instead of helping you , it seems to you that the other man is simply playing the fool . 
Just as you get your side beautifully fixed , he gives it a hoist from his end , and spoils it all . 
Here ! what are you up to ? you call out . 
What are YOU up to ? he retorts leggo , can't you ? Don't pull it you've got it all wrong , you stupid ass ! you shout . 
Ah , the bally idiot ! you hear him mutter to himself and then comes a savage haul , and away goes your side . 
At last , somehow or other , it does get up , and you land the things . 
It is hopeless attempting to make a wood fire , so you light the methylated spirit stove , and crowd round that . 
Rainwater is the chief article of diet at supper . 
After supper , you find your tobacco is damp , and you cannot smoke . 
You wake up and grasp the idea that something terrible really has happened . 
No help comes , however , and all you know is that thousands of people are kicking you , and you are being smothered . 
Somebody else seems in trouble , too . 
You can hear his faint cries coming from underneath your bed . 
Oh , it's you , is it ? he says , recognising you at the same moment . 
Yes , you answer , rubbing your eyes what's happened ? Bally tent's blown down , I think , he says . 
We therefore decided that we would sleep out on fine nights and hotel it , and inn it , and pub . 
it , like respectable folks , when it was wet , or when we felt inclined for a change . 
Montmorency hailed this compromise with much approval . 
He does not revel in romantic solitude . 
Give him something noisy and if a trifle low , so much the jollier . 
To look at Montmorency you would imagine that he was an angel sent upon the earth , for some reason withheld from mankind , in the shape of a small fox terrier . 
When first he came to live at my expense , I never thought I should be able to get him to stop long . 
I used to sit down and look at him , as he sat on the rug and looked up at me , and think Oh , that dog will never live . 
He will be snatched up to the bright skies in a chariot , that is what will happen to him . 
, and hotels his most emphatic approbation . 
HARRIS'S METHOD OF DOING WORK . 
HOW THE ELDERLY , FAMILY MAN PUTS UP A PICTURE . 
GEORGE MAKES A SENSIBLE , REMARK . 
DELIGHTS OF EARLY MORNING BATHING . 
SO , on the following evening , we again assembled , to discuss and arrange our plans . 
Harris said Now , the first thing to settle is what to take with us . 
That's Harris all over so ready to take the burden of everything himself , and put it on the backs of other people . 
He always reminds me of my poor Uncle Podger . 
You never saw such a commotion up and down a house , in all your life , as when my Uncle Podger undertook to do a job . 
Don't you , any of you , worry yourselves about that . 
And then he would take off his coat , and begin . 
Doesn't anybody in the whole house know where my coat is ? I never came across such a set in all my life upon my word I didn't . 
Might just as well ask the cat to find anything as expect you people to find it . 
There ! he would say , in an injured tone , now the nail's gone . 
The nail would be found at last , but by that time he would have lost the hammer . 
And we would all try to do it in our heads , and all arrive at different results , and sneer at one another . 
And in the general row , the original number would be forgotten , and Uncle Podger would have to measure it again . 
And Aunt Maria would say that she would not allow the children to stand round and hear such language . 
And , with the first blow , he would smash his thumb , and drop the hammer , with a yell , on somebody's toes . 
Oh ! you women , you make such a fuss over everything , Uncle Podger would reply , picking himself up . 
Why , I LIKE doing a little job of this sort . 
There you are , he would say , stepping heavily off the chair on to the charwoman's corns , and surveying the mess he had made with evident pride . 
I said I could not permit him to take so much labour upon himself . 
I said No YOU get the paper , and the pencil , and the catalogue , and George write down , and I'll do the work . 
The first list we made out had to be discarded . 
We must not think of the things we could do with , but only of the things that we can't do without . 
George comes out really quite sensible at times . 
I call that downright wisdom , not merely as regards the present case , but with reference to our trip up the river of life , generally . 
It makes the boat so heavy to pull , you nearly faint at the oars . 
You will have time to think as well as to work . 
Well , we left the list to George , and he began it . 
We won't take a tent , suggested George we will have a boat with a cover . 
It is ever so much simpler , and more comfortable . 
It seemed a good thought , and we adopted it . 
I do not know whether you have ever seen the thing I mean . 
, and a couple of big towels for bathing . 
I notice that people always make gigantic arrangements for bathing when they are going anywhere near the water , but that they don't bathe much when they are there . 
It is the same when you go to the sea side . 
I always get red bathing drawers . 
I rather fancy myself in red drawers . 
They suit my complexion so . 
But when I get to the sea I don't feel somehow that I want that early morning bathe nearly so much as I did when I was in town . 
On the contrary , I feel more that I want to stop in bed till the last moment , and then come down and have my breakfast . 
Once or twice virtue has triumphed , and I have got out at six and half dressed myself , and have taken my drawers and towel , and stumbled dismally off . 
But I haven't enjoyed it . 
And when I do get to the sea , it is rough and quite insulting . 
One huge wave catches me up and chucks me in a sitting posture , as hard as ever it can , down on to a rock which has been put there for me . 
And , before I've said Oh ! Ugh ! and found out what has gone , the wave comes back and carries me out to mid ocean . 
I hop back and dress , and crawl home , where I have to pretend I liked it . 
In the present instance , we all talked as if we were going to have a long swim every morning . 
George said it was so pleasant to wake up in the boat in the fresh morning , and plunge into the limpid river . 
Harris said there was nothing like a swim before breakfast to give you an appetite . 
He said it always gave him an appetite . 
George said that if it was going to make Harris eat more than Harris ordinarily ate , then he should protest against Harris having a bath at all . 
He said there would be quite enough hard work in towing sufficient food for Harris up against stream , as it was . 
Agreed , finally , that we should take THREE bath towels , so as not to keep each other waiting . 
For clothes , George said two suits of flannel would be sufficient , as we could wash them ourselves , in the river , when they got dirty . 
We were to learn in the days to come , when it was too late , that George was a miserable impostor , who could evidently have known nothing whatever about the matter . 
If you had seen these clothes after but , as the shilling shockers say , we anticipate . 
OBJECTIONS TO PARAFFINE OIL AS AN ATMOSPHERE . 
ADVANTAGES OF CHEESE AS A TRAVELLING COMPANION . 
A MARRIED WOMAN DESERTS HER HOME . 
FURTHER PROVISION FOR GETTING UPSET . 
THEN we discussed the food question . 
George said Begin with breakfast . 
a tea pot and a kettle , and a methylated spirit stove . 
No oil , said George , with a significant look and Harris and I agreed . 
We had taken up an oil stove once , but never again . 
It had been like living in an oil shop that week . 
I never saw such a thing as paraffine oil is to ooze . 
And that oil oozed up and ruined the sunset and as for the moonbeams , they positively reeked of paraffine . 
We tried to get away from it at Marlow . 
We left the boat by the bridge , and took a walk through the town to escape it , but it followed us . 
The whole town was full of oil . 
We passed through the church yard , and it seemed as if the people had been buried in oil . 
The High Street stunk of oil we wondered how people could live in it . 
And we walked miles upon miles out Birmingham way but it was no use , the country was steeped in oil . 
an awful oath never to take paraffine oil with us in a boat again except , of course , in case of sickness . 
Therefore , in the present instance , we confined ourselves to methylated spirit . 
Even that is bad enough . 
You get methylated pie and methylated cake . 
But methylated spirit is more wholesome when taken into the system in large quantities than paraffine oil . 
For other breakfast things , George suggested eggs and bacon , which were easy to cook , cold meat , tea , bread and butter , and jam . 
For lunch , he said , we could have biscuits , cold meat , bread and butter , and jam but NO CHEESE . 
Cheese , like oil , makes too much of itself . 
It wants the whole boat to itself . 
It goes through the hamper , and gives a cheesy flavour to everything else there . 
You can't tell whether you are eating apple pie or German sausage , or strawberries and cream . 
There is too much odour about cheese . 
I remember a friend of mine , buying a couple of cheeses at Liverpool . 
Oh , with pleasure , dear boy , I replied , with pleasure . 
I called for the cheeses , and took them away in a cab . 
There , the wind carried a whiff from the cheeses full on to our steed . 
It woke him up , and , with a snort of terror , he dashed off at three miles an hour . 
I took my ticket , and marched proudly up the platform , with my cheeses , the people falling back respectfully on either side . 
The train was crowded , and I had to get into a carriage where there were already seven other people . 
A few moments passed , and then the old gentleman began to fidget . 
Very close in here , he said . 
Quite oppressive , said the man next him . 
And then they both began sniffing , and , at the third sniff , they caught it right on the chest , and rose up without another word and went out . 
But even he grew strangely depressed after we had started , and so , when we reached Crewe , I asked him to come and have a drink . 
What's yours ? I said , turning to my friend . 
I'll have half a crown's worth of brandy , neat , if you please , miss , he responded . 
And he went off quietly after he had drunk it and got into another carriage , which I thought mean . 
From Crewe I had the compartment to myself , though the train was crowded . 
As we drew up at the different stations , the people , seeing my empty carriage , would rush for it . 
Here y' are , Maria come along , plenty of room . 
All right , Tom we'll get in here , they would shout . 
And they would run along , carrying heavy bags , and fight round the door to get in first . 
From Euston , I took the cheeses down to my friend's house . 
When his wife came into the room she smelt round for an instant . 
Then she said What is it ? Tell me the worst . 
Tom bought them in Liverpool , and asked me to bring them up with me . 
My friend was detained in Liverpool longer than he expected and , three days later , as he hadn't returned home , his wife called on me . 
She said What did Tom say about those cheeses ? I replied that he had directed they were to be kept in a moist place , and that nobody was to touch them . 
She said Nobody's likely to touch them . 
Had he smelt them ? I thought he had , and added that he seemed greatly attached to them . 
She said Do you mind keeping them for him ? Let me send them round to you . 
But , in this world , we must consider others . 
The lady under whose roof I have the honour of residing is a widow , and , for all I know , possibly an orphan too . 
She has a strong , I may say an eloquent , objection to being what she terms put upon . 
I decline to live any longer in the same house with them . 
It was argued from this that little injury could result to the woman from the atmosphere , and she was left . 
The hotel bill came to fifteen guineas and my friend , after reckoning everything up , found that the cheeses had cost him eight and sixpence a pound . 
He said he dearly loved a bit of cheese , but it was beyond his means so he determined to get rid of them . 
He threw them into the canal but had to fish them out again , as the bargemen complained . 
They said it made them feel quite faint . 
And , after that , he took them one dark night and left them in the parish mortuary . 
But the coroner discovered them , and made a fearful fuss . 
He said it was a plot to deprive him of his living by waking up the corpses . 
My friend got rid of them , at last , by taking them down to a sea side town , and burying them on the beach . 
It gained the place quite a reputation . 
Visitors said they had never noticed before how strong the air was , and weak chested and consumptive people used to throng there for years afterwards . 
Fond as I am of cheese , therefore , I hold that George was right in declining to take any . 
but we'll have a good round , square , slap up meal at seven dinner , tea , and supper combined . 
George suggested meat and fruit pies , cold meat , tomatoes , fruit , and green stuff . 
It seemed to me that George harped too much on the getting upset idea . 
It seemed to me the wrong spirit to go about the trip in . 
But I'm glad we took the whisky . 
We didn't take beer or wine . 
They are a mistake up the river . 
They make you feel sleepy and heavy . 
We made a list of the things to be taken , and a pretty lengthy one it was , before we parted that evening . 
The next day , which was Friday , we got them all together , and met in the evening to pack . 
We got a big Gladstone for the clothes , and a couple of hampers for the victuals and the cooking utensils . 
We moved the table up against the window , piled everything in a heap in the middle of the floor , and sat round and looked at it . 
I rather pride myself on my packing . 
Packing is one of those many things that I feel I know more about than any other person living . 
I impressed the fact upon George and Harris , and told them that they had better leave the whole matter entirely to me . 
They fell into the suggestion with a readiness that had something uncanny about it . 
George put on a pipe and spread himself over the easy chair , and Harris cocked his legs on the table and lit a cigar . 
This was hardly what I intended . 
There you are , simple enough ! really teaching them , as you might say . 
Their taking it in the way they did irritated me . 
There is nothing does irritate me more than seeing other people sitting about doing nothing when I'm working . 
I lived with a man once who used to make me mad that way . 
He would loll on the sofa and watch me doing things by the hour together , following me round the room with his eyes , wherever I went . 
He said it did him real good to look on at me , messing about . 
He said it made him feel that life was not an idle dream to be gaped and yawned through , but a noble task , full of duty and stern work . 
He said he often wondered now how he could have gone on before he met me , never having anybody to look at while they worked . 
Now , I'm not like that . 
I can't sit still and see another man slaving and working . 
I want to get up and superintend , and walk round with my hands in my pockets , and tell him what to do . 
It is my energetic nature . 
However , I did not say anything , but started the packing . 
It seemed a longer job than I had thought it was going to be but I got the bag finished at last , and I sat on it and strapped it . 
Ain't you going to put the boots in ? said Harris . 
And I looked round , and found I had forgotten them . 
He couldn't have said a word until I'd got the bag shut and strapped , of course . 
And George laughed one of those irritating , senseless , chuckle headed , crack jawed laughs of his . 
They do make me so wild . 
I opened the bag and packed the boots in and then , just as I was going to close it , a horrible idea occurred to me . 
Had I packed my tooth brush ? I don't know how it is , but I never do know whether I've packed my tooth brush . 
My tooth brush is a thing that haunts me when I'm travelling , and makes my life a misery . 
I dream that I haven't packed it , and wake up in a cold perspiration , and get out of bed and hunt for it . 
Of course I had to turn every mortal thing out now , and , of course , I could not find it . 
I rummaged the things up into much the same state that they must have been before the world was created , and when chaos reigned . 
Of course , I found George's and Harris's eighteen times over , but I couldn't find my own . 
I put the things back one by one , and held everything up and shook it . 
Then I found it inside a boot . 
When I had finished , George asked if the soap was in . 
It got shut up finally at . 
, and then there remained the hampers to do . 
They began in a light hearted spirit , evidently intending to show me how to do it . 
I made no comment I only waited . 
, and felt that the thing would soon become exciting . 
They started with breaking a cup . 
That was the first thing they did . 
They did that just to show you what they COULD do , and to get you interested . 
Then Harris packed the strawberry jam on top of a tomato and squashed it , and they had to pick out the tomato with a teaspoon . 
And then it was George's turn , and he trod on the butter . 
I didn't say anything , but I came over and sat on the edge of the table and watched them . 
It irritated them more than anything I could have said . 
They upset salt over everything , and as for the butter ! I never saw two men do more with one and twopence worth of butter in my whole life than they did . 
After George had got it off his slipper , they tried to put it in the kettle . 
It wouldn't go in , and what WAS in wouldn't come out . 
I'll take my oath I put it down on that chair , said George , staring at the empty seat . 
I saw you do it myself , not a minute ago , said Harris . 
Then they started round the room again looking for it and then they met again in the centre , and stared at one another . 
Most extraordinary thing I ever heard of , said George . 
So mysterious ! said Harris . 
Then George got round at the back of Harris and saw it . 
Why , here it is all the time , he exclaimed , indignantly . 
Where ? cried Harris , spinning round . 
Stand still , can't you ! roared George , flying after him . 
And they got it off , and packed it in the teapot . 
Montmorency was in it all , of course . 
Montmorency's ambition in life , is to get in the way and be sworn at . 
Harris said I encouraged him . 
A dog like that don't want any encouragement . 
It's the natural , original sin that is born in him that makes him do things like that . 
The packing was done at . 
and Harris sat on the big hamper , and said he hoped nothing would be found broken . 
George said that if anything was broken it was broken , which reflection seemed to comfort him . 
He also said he was ready for bed . 
We were all ready for bed . 
Harris was to sleep with us that night , and we went upstairs . 
We tossed for beds , and Harris had to sleep with me . 
He said Do you prefer the inside or the outside , J. ? I said I generally preferred to sleep INSIDE a bed . 
Harris said it was old . 
George said What time shall I wake you fellows ? Harris said Seven . 
I said No six , because I wanted to write some letters . 
Harris and I had a bit of a row over it , but at last split the difference , and said half past six . 
, George , we said . 
DEPRAVITY OF THE SMALL BOY . 
THE PEOPLE GATHER ROUND US . 
WE DRIVE OFF IN GREAT STYLE , AND ARRIVE AT WATERLOO . 
INNOCENCE OF SOUTH WESTERN OFFICIALS CONCERNING SUCH WORLDLY THINGS AS TRAINS . 
WE ARE AFLOAT , AFLOAT IN AN OPEN BOAT . 
IT was Mrs. Poppets that woke me up next morning . 
She said Do you know that it's nearly nine o'clock , sir ? Nine o' what ? I cried , starting up . 
Nine o'clock , she replied , through the keyhole . 
I thought you was a oversleeping yourselves . 
I woke Harris , and told him . 
Now we shan't get on the water till after twelve . 
I wonder you take the trouble to get up at all . 
Um , I replied , lucky for you that I do . 
If I hadn't woke you , you'd have lain there for the whole fortnight . 
We snarled at one another in this strain for the next few minutes , when we were interrupted by a defiant snore from George . 
It reminded us , for the first time since our being called , of his existence . 
There he lay the man who had wanted to know what time he should wake us on his back , with his mouth wide open , and his knees stuck up . 
I don't know why it should be , I am sure but the sight of another man asleep in bed when I am up , maddens me . 
It seems to me so shocking to see the precious hours of a man's life the priceless moments that will never come back to him again being wasted in mere brutish sleep . 
He might have been up stuffing himself with eggs and bacon , irritating the dog , or flirting with the slavey , instead of sprawling there , sunk in soul clogging oblivion . 
It was a terrible thought . 
Harris and I appeared to be struck by it at the same instant . 
We determined to save him , and , in this noble resolve , our own dispute was forgotten . 
We flew across and slung the clothes off him , and Harris landed him one with a slipper , and I shouted in his ear , and he awoke . 
Wasermarrer ? he observed , sitting up . 
Get up , you fat headed chunk ! roared Harris . 
, and we had to go downstairs , and fish them out of the bag . 
And when we had done that George wanted the shaving tackle . 
We told him that he would have to go without shaving that morning , as we weren't going to unpack that bag again for him , nor for anyone like him . 
He said Don't be absurd . 
We went downstairs to breakfast . 
Montmorency had invited two other dogs to come and see him off , and they were whiling away the time by fighting on the doorstep . 
We calmed them with an umbrella , and sat down to chops and cold beef . 
, occasional local thunder storms , east wind , with general depression over the Midland Counties . 
I do think that , of all the silly , irritating tomfoolishness by which we are plagued , this weather forecast fraud is about the most aggravating . 
It forecasts precisely what happened yesterday or a the day before , and precisely the opposite of what is going to happen to day . 
I remember a holiday of mine being completely ruined one late autumn by our paying attention to the weather report of the local newspaper . 
And people would pass the house , going off in wagonettes and coaches as jolly and merry as could be , the sun shining out , and not a cloud to be seen . 
By twelve o'clock , with the sun pouring into the room , the heat became quite oppressive , and we wondered when those heavy showers and occasional thunderstorms were going to begin . 
Ah ! they'll come in the afternoon , you'll find , we said to each other . 
Oh , WON'T those people get wet . 
What a lark ! At one o'clock , the landlady would come in to ask if we weren't going out , as it seemed such a lovely day . 
No , no , we replied , with a knowing chuckle , not we . 
WE don't mean to get wet no , no . 
But not a drop ever fell , and it finished a grand day , and a lovely night after it . 
The weather is a thing that is beyond me altogether . 
I never can understand it . 
The barometer is useless it is as misleading as the newspaper forecast . 
There was one hanging up in a hotel at Oxford at which I was staying last spring , and , when I got there , it was pointing to set fair . 
It was simply pouring with rain outside , and had been all day and I couldn't quite make matters out . 
I tapped the barometer , and it jumped up and pointed to very dry . 
The Boots stopped as he was passing , and said he expected it meant to morrow . 
I fancied that maybe it was thinking of the week before last , but Boots said , No , he thought not . 
I tapped it again the next morning , and it went up still higher , and the rain came down faster than ever . 
It tried its best , but the instrument was built so that it couldn't prophesy fine weather any harder than it did without breaking itself . 
Meanwhile , the rain came down in a steady torrent , and the lower part of the town was under water , owing to the river having overflowed . 
The fine weather never came that summer . 
I expect that machine must have been referring to the following spring . 
Then there are those new style of barometers , the long straight ones . 
I never can make head or tail of those . 
There is one side for a . 
yesterday , and one side for a . 
to day but you can't always get there as early as ten , you know . 
, and if you tap it , it doesn't tell you anything . 
And you've got to correct it to sea level , and reduce it to Fahrenheit , and even then I don't know the answer . 
But who wants to be foretold the weather ? It is bad enough when it comes , without our having the misery of knowing about it beforehand . 
It will break all right enough , sir . 
Ah , well , we feel , he did his best . 
For the man that prophesies us bad weather , on the contrary , we entertain only bitter and revengeful thoughts . 
Going to clear up , d'ye think ? we shout , cheerily , as we pass . 
Well , no , sir I'm afraid it's settled down for the day , he replies , shaking his head . 
It was too bright and sunny on this especial morning for George's blood curdling readings about Bar . 
Then Harris and I , having finished up the few things left on the table , carted out our luggage on to the doorstep , and waited for a cab . 
There seemed a good deal of luggage , when we put it all together . 
It did look a lot , and Harris and I began to feel rather ashamed of it , though why we should be , I can't see . 
No cab came by , but the street boys did , and got interested in the show , apparently , and stopped . 
Biggs's boy was the first to come round . 
Biggs is our greengrocer , and his chief talent lies in securing the services of the most abandoned and unprincipled errand boys that civilisation has as yet produced . 
If anything more than usually villainous in the boy line crops up in our neighbourhood , we know that it is Biggs's latest . 
, to prove a complete ALIBI , it would have gone hard with him . 
I didn't know Biggs's boy at that time , but , from what I have seen of them since , I should not have attached much importance to that ALIBI myself . 
Biggs's boy , as I have said , came round the corner . 
Harris and I frowned at him . 
This might have wounded a more sensitive nature , but Biggs's boys are not , as a rule , touchy . 
He came to a dead stop , a yard from our step , and , leaning up against the railings , and selecting a straw to chew , fixed us with his eye . 
He evidently meant to see this thing out . 
In another moment , the grocer's boy passed on the opposite side of the street . 
Biggs's boy hailed him Hi ! ground floor o' 's a moving . 
The grocer's boy came across , and took up a position on the other side of the step . 
Then the young gentleman from the boot shop stopped , and joined Biggs's boy while the empty can superintendent from The Blue Posts took up an independent position on the curb . 
They ain't a going to starve , are they ? said the gentleman from the boot shop . 
Ah ! you'd want to take a thing or two with YOU , retorted The Blue Posts , if you was a going to cross the Atlantic in a small boat . 
They ain't a going to cross the Atlantic , struck in Biggs's boy they're a going to find Stanley . 
By this time , quite a small crowd had collected , and people were asking each other what was the matter . 
We got to Waterloo at eleven , and asked where the eleven five started from . 
The station master , on the other hand , was convinced it would start from the local . 
We went to number three platform , but the authorities there said that they rather thought that train was the Southampton express , or else the Windsor loop . 
But they were sure it wasn't the Kingston train , though why they were sure it wasn't they couldn't say . 
Then our porter said he thought that must be it on the high level platform said he thought he knew the train . 
So we went to the high level platform , and saw the engine driver , and asked him if he was going to Kingston . 
He said he couldn't say for certain of course , but that he rather thought he was . 
Anyhow , if he wasn't the . 
for Kingston , he said he was pretty confident he was the . 
for Virginia Water , or the a . 
express for the Isle of Wight , or somewhere in that direction , and we should all know when we got there . 
We slipped half a crown into his hand , and begged him to be the . 
Nobody will ever know , on this line , we said , what you are , or where you're going . 
You know the way , you slip off quietly and go to Kingston . 
Well , I don't know , gents , replied the noble fellow , but I suppose SOME train's got to go to Kingston and I'll do it . 
Thus we got to Kingston by the London and South Western Railway . 
Our boat was waiting for us at Kingston just below bridge , and to it we wended our way , and round it we stored our luggage , and into it we stepped . 
Are you all right , sir ? said the man . 
INSTRUCTIVE REMARKS ON EARLY ENGLISH HISTORY . 
INSTRUCTIVE OBSERVATIONS ON CARVED OAK AND LIFE IN GENERAL . 
SAD CASE OF STIVVINGS , JUNIOR . 
I FORGET THAT I AM STEERING . 
I mused on Kingston , or Kyningestun , as it was once called in the days when Saxon kinges were crowned there . 
Great Caesar crossed the river there , and the Roman legions camped upon its sloping uplands . 
Caesar , like , in later years , Elizabeth , seems to have stopped everywhere only he was more respectable than good Queen Bess he didn't put up at the public houses . 
She was nuts on public houses , was England's Virgin Queen . 
of any attractions within ten miles of London that she does not seem to have looked in at , or stopped at , or slept at , some time or other . 
No , there would be too many of them ! It would be the houses that he had never entered that would become famous . 
Only house in South London that Harris never had a drink in ! The people would flock to it to see what could have been the matter with it . 
How poor weak minded King Edwy must have hated Kyningestun ! The coronation feast had been too much for him . 
, and he had had enough of sack and mead so he slipped from the noisy revel to steal a quiet moonlight hour with his beloved Elgiva . 
Then brutal Odo and St . 
Dunstan force their rude way into the quiet room , and hurl coarse insults at the sweet faced Queen , and drag poor Edwy back to the loud clamour of the drunken brawl . 
They were upraised in the days when men knew how to build . 
The hard red bricks have only grown more firmly set with time , and their oak stairs do not creak and grunt when you try to go down them quietly . 
Speaking of oak staircases reminds me that there is a magnificent carved oak staircase in one of the houses in Kingston . 
It is a shop now , in the market place , but it was evidently once the mansion of some great personage . 
My friend said he would , and the shopman , thereupon , took him through the shop , and up the staircase of the house . 
The balusters were a superb piece of workmanship , and the wall all the way up was oak panelled , with carving that would have done credit to a palace . 
From the stairs , they went into the drawing room , which was a large , bright room , decorated with a somewhat startling though cheerful paper of a blue ground . 
There was nothing , however , remarkable about the apartment , and my friend wondered why he had been brought there . 
The proprietor went up to the paper , and tapped it . 
It gave forth a wooden sound . 
All carved oak , right up to the ceiling , just the same as you saw on the staircase . 
Had to match board it all over first , of course . 
But the room looks cheerful now . 
It was awful gloomy before . 
It would be like living in a church . 
It seems to be the rule of this world . 
Each person has what he doesn't want , and other people have what he does want . 
Married men have wives , and don't seem to want them and young single fellows cry out that they can't get them . 
Poor people who can hardly keep themselves have eight hearty children . 
Rich old couples , with no one to leave their money to , die childless . 
Then there are girls with lovers . 
The girls that have lovers never want them . 
They never mean to marry . 
It does not do to dwell on these things it makes one so sad . 
There was a boy at our school , we used to call him Sandford and Merton . 
His real name was Stivvings . 
He was the most extraordinary lad I ever came across . 
I believe he really liked study . 
He used to get into awful rows for sitting up in bed and reading Greek and as for French irregular verbs there was simply no keeping him away from them . 
I never knew such a strange creature , yet harmless , mind you , as the babe unborn . 
Well , that boy used to get ill about twice a week , so that he couldn't go to school . 
There never was such a boy to get ill as that Sandford and Merton . 
If there was any known disease going within ten miles of him , he had it , and had it badly . 
He would take bronchitis in the dog days , and have hay fever at Christmas . 
After a six weeks' period of drought , he would be stricken down with rheumatic fever and he would go out in a November fog and come home with a sunstroke . 
He was never without a cold , except once for nine weeks while he had scarlet fever and he always had chilblains . 
During the great cholera scare of , our neighbourhood was singularly free from it . 
There was only one reputed case in the whole parish that case was young Stivvings . 
Nothing we could think of seemed to make us ill until the holidays began . 
Such is life and we are but as grass that is cut down , and put into the oven and baked . 
To go back to the carved oak question , they must have had very fair notions of the artistic and the beautiful , our great great grandfathers . 
Why , all our art treasures of to day are only the dug up commonplaces of three or four hundred years ago . 
It is a white dog . 
Its nose is a delicate red , with spots . 
Its head is painfully erect , its expression is amiability carried to verge of imbecility . 
I do not admire it myself . 
Considered as a work of art , I may say it irritates me . 
Thoughtless friends jeer at it , and even my landlady herself has no admiration for it , and excuses its presence by the circumstance that her aunt gave it to her . 
And people will pass it round , and admire it . 
They will be struck by the wonderful depth of the colour on the nose , and speculate as to how beautiful the bit of the tail that is lost no doubt was . 
We , in this age , do not see the beauty of that dog . 
We are too familiar with it . 
It is like the sunset and the stars we are not awed by their loveliness because they are common to our eyes . 
So it is with that china dog . 
In people will gush over it . 
The making of such dogs will have become a lost art . 
Our descendants will wonder how we did it , and say how clever we were . 
We shall be referred to lovingly as those grand old artists that flourished in the nineteenth century , and produced those china dogs . 
The sampler that the eldest daughter did at school will be spoken of as tapestry of the Victorian era , and be almost priceless . 
At this point Harris threw away the sculls , got up and left his seat , and sat on his back , and stuck his legs in the air . 
Montmorency howled , and turned a somersault , and the top hamper jumped up , and all the things came out . 
I was somewhat surprised , but I did not lose my temper . 
I said , pleasantly enough Hulloa ! what's that for ? What's that for ? Why No , on second thoughts , I will not repeat what Harris said . 
It was difficult to say , for the moment , which was us and which was the Middlesex bank of the river but we found out after a while , and separated ourselves . 
What a dear old wall that is that runs along by the river there ! I never pass it without feeling better for the sight of it . 
If I could only draw , and knew how to paint , I could make a lovely sketch of that old wall , I'm sure . 
I've often thought I should like to live at Hampton Court . 
It looks so peaceful and so quiet , and it is such a dear old place to ramble round in the early morning before many people are about . 
But , there , I don't suppose I should really care for it when it came to actual practice . 
We are creatures of the sun , we men and women . 
We love light and life . 
That is why we crowd into the towns and cities , and the country grows more and more deserted every year . 
Then we sit and sob , and long for the gas lit streets , and the sound of human voices , and the answering throb of human life . 
We feel so helpless and so little in the great stillness , when the dark trees rustle in the night wind . 
There are so many ghosts about , and their silent sighs make us feel so sad . 
Let us gather together in the great cities , and light huge bonfires of a million gas jets , and shout and sing together , and feel brave . 
Harris asked me if I'd ever been in the maze at Hampton Court . 
He said he went in once to show somebody else the way . 
He had studied it up in a map , and it was so simple that it seemed foolish hardly worth the twopence charged for admission . 
Harris said he thought that map must have been got up as a practical joke , because it wasn't a bit like the real thing , and only misleading . 
It was a country cousin that Harris took in . 
He said We'll just go in here , so that you can say you've been , but it's very simple . 
It's absurd to call it a maze . 
You keep on taking the first turning to the right . 
We'll just walk round for ten minutes , and then go and get some lunch . 
They met some people soon after they had got inside , who said they had been there for three quarters of an hour , and had had about enough of it . 
Harris told them they could follow him , if they liked he was just going in , and then should turn round and come out again . 
They said it was very kind of him , and fell behind , and followed . 
They picked up various other people who wanted to get it over , as they went along , until they had absorbed all the persons in the maze . 
Harris kept on turning to the right , but it seemed a long way , and his cousin said he supposed it was a very big maze . 
Oh , one of the largest in Europe , said Harris . 
Yes , it must be , replied the cousin , because we've walked a good two miles already . 
She also added that she wished she never had met Harris , and expressed an opinion that he was an impostor . 
That made Harris mad , and he produced his map , and explained his theory . 
The map may be all right enough , said one of the party , if you know whereabouts in it we are now . 
Harris didn't know , and suggested that the best thing to do would be to go back to the entrance , and begin again . 
About ten minutes more passed , and then they found themselves in the centre . 
Harris thought at first of pretending that that was what he had been aiming at but the crowd looked dangerous , and he decided to treat it as an accident . 
Anyhow , they had got something to start from then . 
They did know where they were , and the map was once more consulted , and the thing seemed simpler than ever , and off they started for the third time . 
And three minutes later they were back in the centre again . 
After that , they simply couldn't get anywhere else . 
Whatever way they turned brought them back to the middle . 
It became so regular at length , that some of the people stopped there , and waited for the others to take a walk round , and come back to them . 
Harris drew out his map again , after a while , but the sight of it only infuriated the mob , and they told him to go and curl his hair with it . 
Harris said that he couldn't help feeling that , to a certain extent , he had become unpopular . 
They all got crazy at last , and sang out for the keeper , and the man came and climbed up the ladder outside , and shouted out directions to them . 
They huddled together , and waited and he climbed down , and came in . 
They had to wait till one of the old keepers came back from his dinner before they got out . 
THE RIVER IN ITS SUNDAY GARB . 
A CHANCE FOR THE MEN . 
ABSENCE OF TASTE IN HARRIS . 
A DAY WITH THE FASHION PLATE YOUNG LADY . 
THE MAN WHO LOVES NOT GRAVES AND COFFINS AND SKULLS . 
HIS VIEWS ON GEORGE AND BANKS AND LEMONADE . 
IT was while passing through Moulsey Lock that Harris told me about his maze experience . 
It took us some time to pass through , as we were the only boat , and it is a big lock . 
I don't think I ever remember to have seen Moulsey Lock , before , with only one boat in it . 
It is , I suppose , Boulter's not even excepted , the busiest lock on the river . 
The river affords a good opportunity for dress . 
For once in a way , we men are able to show our taste in colours , and I think we come out very natty , if you ask me . 
I always like a little red in my things red and black . 
Harris always keeps to shades or mixtures of orange or yellow , but I don't think he is at all wise in this . 
His complexion is too dark for yellows . 
Yellows don't suit him there can be no question about it . 
George has bought some new things for this trip , and I'm rather vexed about them . 
I should not like George to know that I thought so , but there really is no other word for it . 
He brought it home and showed it to us on Thursday evening . 
We asked him what colour he called it , and he said he didn't know . 
He didn't think there was a name for the colour . 
The man had told him it was an Oriental design . 
George put it on , and asked us what we thought of it . 
Girls , also , don't look half bad in a boat , if prettily dressed . 
Nothing is more fetching , to my thinking , than a tasteful boating costume . 
It utterly spoils an excursion if you have folk in the boat who are thinking all the time a good deal more of their dress than of the trip . 
It was my misfortune once to go for a water picnic with two ladies of this kind . 
We did have a lively time ! They were both beautifully got up all lace and silky stuff , and flowers , and ribbons , and dainty shoes , and light gloves . 
But they were dressed for a photographic studio , not for a river picnic . 
They were the boating costumes of a French fashion plate . 
It was ridiculous , fooling about in them anywhere near real earth , air , and water . 
The first thing was that they thought the boat was not clean . 
We dusted all the seats for them , and then assured them that it was , but they didn't believe us . 
You are liable to occasionally splash a little when sculling , and it appeared that a drop of water ruined those costumes . 
The mark never came out , and a stain was left on the dress for ever . 
But , notwithstanding all this , and try as I would , I could not help an occasional flicker of water from going over those dresses . 
The girls did not complain , but they huddled up close together , and set their lips firm , and every time a drop touched them , they visibly shrank and shuddered . 
It was a noble sight to see them suffering thus in silence , but it unnerved me altogether . 
I got wild and fitful in my rowing , and splashed more and more , the harder I tried not to . 
I gave it up at last I said I'd row bow . 
Bow thought the arrangement would be better too , and we changed places . 
The ladies gave an involuntary sigh of relief when they saw me go , and quite brightened up for a moment . 
Poor girls ! they had better have put up with me . 
You might look daggers at him for an hour and he would not notice it , and it would not trouble him if he did . 
He set a good , rollicking , dashing stroke that sent the spray playing all over the boat like a fountain , and made the whole crowd sit up straight in no time . 
Oh , it's of no consequence , the poor girls would murmur in reply , and covertly draw rugs and coats over themselves , and try and protect themselves with their lace parasols . 
At lunch they had a very bad time of it . 
Somebody , in walking about with a plate of beef steak pie , tripped up over a root , and sent the pie flying . 
When they grasped the idea , they said they feared they did not know how to wash up . 
The elder sister said that she was afraid that they hadn't got on dresses suited to the work . 
Oh , they'll be all right , said he light heartedly tuck em up . 
And he made them do it , too . 
He told them that that sort of thing was half the fun of a picnic . 
They said it was very interesting . 
Who is Mrs. Thomas ? I asked . 
How should I know ? replied Harris . 
She's a lady that's got a funny tomb , and I want to see it . 
I don't know whether it is that I am built wrong , but I never did seem to hanker after tombstones myself . 
I take no interest in creeping round dim and chilly churches behind wheezy old men , and reading epitaphs . 
Not even the sight of a bit of cracked brass let into a stone affords me what I call real happiness . 
It was idyllic , poetical , and it inspired me . 
I felt good and noble . 
I felt I didn't want to be sinful and wicked any more . 
In that moment I forgave all my friends and relations for their wickedness and cussedness , and I blessed them . 
They did not know that I blessed them . 
It's all right , sur don't you be in a hurry . 
I motioned him away with silent dignity , but he still advanced , screeching out the while I'm a coming , sur , I'm a coming . 
I ain't as spry as I used to be . 
Go away , you miserable old man , I said . 
I've come as soon as I could , sur , he replied . 
My missis never see you till just this minute . 
You follow me , sur . 
Go away , I repeated leave me before I get over the wall , and slay you . 
Don't you want to see the tombs ? he said . 
No , I answered , I don't . 
I want to stop here , leaning up against this gritty old wall . 
Go away , and don't disturb me . 
I am chock full of beautiful and noble thoughts , and I want to stop like it , because it feels nice and good . 
Don't you come fooling about , making me mad , chivying away all my better feelings with this silly tombstone nonsense of yours . 
Go away , and get somebody to bury you cheap , and I'll pay half the expense . 
He was bewildered for a moment . 
He rubbed his eyes , and looked hard at me . 
I seemed human enough on the outside he couldn't make it out . 
He said Yuise a stranger in these parts ? You don't live here ? No , I said , I don't . 
YOU wouldn't if I did . 
Why should I ? We have graves of our own , our family has . 
When I want graves , it is to those places that I go and revel . 
I do not want other folk's . 
When you yourself are buried , I will come and see yours . 
That is all I can do for you . 
He drew near , and whispered hoarsely I've got a couple of skulls down in the crypt , he said come and see those . 
Oh , do come and see the skulls ! You are a young man out for a holiday , and you want to enjoy yourself . 
I reminded him of George , and how we had to get the boat up to Shepperton by five o'clock to meet him , and then he went for George . 
He sits behind a bit of glass all day , trying to look as if he was doing something . 
What's the good of a man behind a bit of glass ? I have to work for my living . 
What's the good of that ? That's the sort of trick they served me twice last week . 
I'm not going to stand it much longer . 
I shall withdraw my account . 
If he was here , we could go and see that tomb . 
I don't believe he's at the bank at all . 
He's larking about somewhere , that's what he's doing , leaving us to do all the work . 
I'm going to get out , and have a drink . 
I pointed out to him that we were miles away from a pub . 
Then he pumps himself out , and is quiet afterwards . 
Then he flew off about lemonade , and such like Sunday school slops , as he termed them , ginger beer , raspberry syrup , c . 
He said they all produced dyspepsia , and ruined body and soul alike , and were the cause of half the crime in England . 
He said he must drink something , however , and climbed upon the seat , and leant over to get the bottle . 
THE PROPER COURSE TO PURSUE . 
SELFISH BOORISHNESS OF RIVER SIDE LANDOWNER . 
HOW HARRIS SINGS A COMIC SONG . 
SHAMEFUL CONDUCT OF TWO ABANDONED YOUNG MEN . 
WE stopped under the willows by Kempton Park , and lunched . 
It is a pretty little spot there a pleasant grass plateau , running along by the water's edge , and overhung by willows . 
Harris said that if it was a duty it ought to be done , and asked the man what was his idea with regard to the best means for accomplishing it . 
Of course , we never saw him any more , and , of course , all he really wanted was a shilling . 
There are a certain number of riverside roughs who make quite an income , during the summer , by slouching about the banks and blackmailing weak minded noodles in this way . 
They represent themselves as sent by the proprietor . 
Where it is really the owners that are to blame , they ought to be shown up . 
The selfishness of the riparian proprietor grows with every year . 
If these men had their way they would close the river Thames altogether . 
They actually do this along the minor tributary streams and in the backwaters . 
They drive posts into the bed of the stream , and draw chains across from bank to bank , and nail huge notice boards on every tree . 
The sight of those notice boards rouses every evil instinct in my nature . 
I mentioned these feelings of mine to Harris , and he said he had them worse than that . 
This seemed to me to be going too far , and I said so to Harris but he answered Not a bit of it . 
Serve em all jolly well right , and I'd go and sing comic songs on the ruins . 
I was vexed to hear Harris go on in this blood thirsty strain . 
We never ought to allow our instincts of justice to degenerate into mere vindictiveness . 
You have never heard Harris sing a comic song , or you would understand the service I had rendered to mankind . 
Oh , that IS nice , says the hostess . 
Well , you don't look for much of a voice in a comic song . 
You don't expect correct phrasing or vocalization . 
You don't mind if a man does find out , when in the middle of a note , that he is too high , and comes down with a jerk . 
You don't bother about time . 
But you do expect the words . 
You don't expect a man to never remember more than the first three lines of the first verse , and to keep on repeating these until it is time to begin the chorus . 
You don't well , I will just give you an idea of Harris's comic singing , and then you can judge of it for yourself . 
I'm afraid it's a very old thing , you know . 
I expect you all know it , you know . 
But it's the only thing I know . 
It's the Judge's song out of PINAFORE no , I don't mean PINAFORE I mean you know what I mean the other thing , you know . 
You must all join in the chorus , you know . 
Murmurs of delight and anxiety to join in the chorus . 
Brilliant performance of prelude to the Judge's song in Trial by Jury by nervous Pianist . 
Moment arrives for Harris to join in . 
Harris takes no notice of it . 
Nervous pianist commences prelude over again , and Harris , commencing singing at the same time , dashes off the first two lines of the First Lord's song out of Pinafore . 
You're doing it very well , indeed go on . 
NERVOUS PIANIST I'm afraid there's a mistake somewhere . 
What are you singing ? HARRIS Why the Judge's song out of Trial by Jury . 
No , you're not , you chuckle head , you're singing the Admiral's song from PINAFORE . 
Long argument between Harris and Harris's friend as to what Harris is really singing . 
Pianist , thereupon , starts prelude to the Admiral's song , and Harris , seizing what he considers to be a favourable opening in the music , begins . 
HARRIS When I was young and called to the Bar . 
GENERAL ROAR OF LAUGHTER , TAKEN BY HARRIS AS A COMPLIMENT . 
PIANIST , THINKING OF HIS WIFE AND FAMILY , GIVES UP THE UNEQUAL CONTEST AND RETIRES HIS PLACE BEING TAKEN BY A STRONGER NERVED MAN . 
Now then , old man , you start off , and I'll follow . 
We won't bother about any prelude . 
By Jove ! I beg your pardon . 
Of course I've been mixing up the two songs . 
It was Jenkins confused me , you know . 
SINGING HIS VOICE APPEARING TO COME FROM THE CELLAR , AND SUGGESTING THE FIRST LOW WARNINGS OF AN APPROACHING EARTHQUAKE . 
When I was young I served a term As office boy to an attorney's firm . 
It is too low , old man we'll have that over again , if you don't mind . 
SINGS FIRST TWO LINES OVER AGAIN , IN A HIGH FALSETTO THIS TIME . 
GREAT SURPRISE ON THE PART OF THE AUDIENCE . 
NERVOUS OLD LADY NEAR THE FIRE BEGINS TO CRY , AND HAS TO BE LED OUT . 
I swept the windows and I swept the door , And I No no , I cleaned the windows of the big front door . 
And I polished up the floor no , dash it I beg your pardon funny thing , I can't think of that line . 
And I diddle diddle diddle diddle diddle diddle de , Till now I am the ruler of the Queen's navee . 
Now then , chorus it is the last two lines repeated , you know . 
GENERAL CHORUS And he diddle diddle diddle diddle diddle diddle dee'd , Till now he is the ruler of the Queen's navee . 
And Harris never sees what an ass he is making of himself , and how he is annoying a lot of people who never did him any harm . 
He honestly imagines that he has given them a treat , and says he will sing another comic song after supper . 
We were a fashionable and highly cultured party . 
The truth was , we were too clever for them . 
Our brilliant but polished conversation , and our high class tastes , were beyond them . 
They were out of place , among us . 
They never ought to have been there at all . 
Everybody agreed upon that , later on . 
We played MORCEAUX from the old German masters . 
We discussed philosophy and ethics . 
We flirted with graceful dignity . 
We were even humorous in a high class way . 
sing his great German comic song . 
None of us had heard it , that we could remember . 
had had to be carried off to bed . 
They said he never once suggested by his tone or manner that he was singing anything funny that would spoil it . 
It was his air of seriousness , almost of pathos , that made it so irresistibly amusing . 
We said we yearned to hear it , that we wanted a good laugh and they went downstairs , and fetched Herr Slossenn Boschen . 
He appeared to be quite pleased to sing it , for he came up at once , and sat down to the piano without another word . 
Oh , it will amuse you . 
You will laugh , whispered the two young men , as they passed through the room , and took up an unobtrusive position behind the Professor's back . 
Herr Slossenn Boschen accompanied himself . 
The prelude did not suggest a comic song exactly . 
It was a weird , soulful air . 
It quite made one's flesh creep but we murmured to one another that it was the German method , and prepared to enjoy it . 
I don't understand German myself . 
I learned it at school , but forgot every word of it two years after I had left , and have felt much better ever since . 
Still , I did not want the people there to guess my ignorance so I hit upon what I thought to be rather a good idea . 
I kept my eye on the two young students , and followed them . 
I considered this particularly artful on my part . 
I noticed , as the song progressed , that a good many other people seemed to have their eye fixed on the two young men , as well as myself . 
And yet that German Professor did not seem happy . 
We thought this very funny we said his earnest manner was half the humour . 
The slightest hint on his part that he knew how funny he was would have completely ruined it all . 
That sent us into convulsions . 
We told each other that it would be the death of us , this thing . 
He finished amid a perfect shriek of laughter . 
We said it was the funniest thing we had ever heard in all our lives . 
We said how strange it was that , in the face of things like these , there should be a popular notion that the Germans hadn't any sense of humour . 
And we asked the Professor why he didn't translate the song into English , so that the common people could understand it , and hear what a real comic song was like . 
Then Herr Slossenn Boschen got up , and went on awful . 
, and he danced , and shook his fists , and called us all the English he knew . 
He said he had never been so insulted in all his life . 
It appeared that the song was not a comic song at all . 
had sobbed like a little child . 
said it was generally acknowledged to be one of the most tragic and pathetic songs in the German language . 
It was a trying situation for us very trying . 
There seemed to be no answer . 
We looked around for the two young men who had done this thing , but they had left the house in an unostentatious manner immediately after the end of the song . 
That was the end of that party . 
I never saw a party break up so quietly , and with so little fuss . 
We never said good night even to one another . 
We came downstairs one at a time , walking softly , and keeping the shady side . 
I have never taken much interest in German songs since then . 
We reached Sunbury Lock at half past three . 
The river is sweetly pretty just there before you come to the gates , and the backwater is charming but don't attempt to row up it . 
I tried to do so once . 
I got well into a steady rhythmical swing . 
I put my arms , and my legs , and my back into it . 
I set myself a good , quick , dashing stroke , and worked in really grand style . 
My two friends said it was a pleasure to watch me . 
At the end of five minutes , I thought we ought to be pretty near the weir , and I looked up . 
We were under the bridge , in exactly the same spot that we were when I began , and there were those two idiots , injuring themselves by violent laughing . 
I had been grinding away like mad to keep that boat stuck still under that bridge . 
I let other people pull up backwaters against strong streams now . 
We sculled up to Walton , a rather large place for a riverside town . 
Windsor and Abingdon are the only towns between London and Oxford that you can really see anything of from the stream . 
Caesar , of course , had a little place at Walton a camp , or an entrenchment , or something of that sort . 
Caesar was a regular up river man . 
Also Queen Elizabeth , she was there , too . 
You can never get away from that woman , go where you will . 
They must have been quite a pleasant little party , altogether . 
There is an iron scold's bridle in Walton Church . 
They used these things in ancient days for curbing women's tongues . 
They have given up the attempt now . 
I suppose iron was getting scarce , and nothing else would be strong enough . 
Above the bridge the river winds tremendously . 
This makes it look picturesque but it irritates you from a towing or sculling point of view , and causes argument between the man who is pulling and the man who is steering . 
You pass Oatlands Park on the right bank here . 
It is a famous old place . 
stole it from some one or the other , I forget whom now , and lived in it . 
There is a grotto in the park which you can see for a fee , and which is supposed to be very wonderful but I cannot see much in it myself . 
The late Duchess of York , who lived at Oatlands , was very fond of dogs , and kept an immense number . 
Well , I dare say they deserve it quite as much as the average Christian does . 
At Corway Stakes the first bend above Walton Bridge was fought a battle between Caesar and Cassivelaunus . 
But Caesar crossed in spite of this . 
You couldn't choke Caesar off that river . 
He is the sort of man we want round the backwaters now . 
Halliford and Shepperton are both pretty little spots where they touch the river but there is nothing remarkable about either of them . 
There is a tomb in Shepperton churchyard , however , with a poem on it , and I was nervous lest Harris should want to get out and fool round it . 
, the Bourne , and the Basingstoke Canal all enter the Thames together . 
Montmorency set up a furious barking , I shrieked , Harris roared George waved his hat , and yelled back . 
The lock keeper rushed out with a drag , under the impression that somebody had fallen into the lock , and appeared annoyed at finding that no one had . 
George had rather a curious oilskin covered parcel in his hand . 
It was round and flat at one end , with a long straight handle sticking out of it . 
I never knew you played the banjo ! cried Harris and I , in one breath . 
Not exactly , replied George but it's very easy , they tell me and I've got the instruction book ! CHAPTER IX . 
GEORGE IS INTRODUCED TO WORK . 
HEATHENISH INSTINCTS OF TOW LINES . 
UNGRATEFUL CONDUCT OF A DOUBLE SCULLING SKIFF . 
A USE DISCOVERED FOR LOVERS . 
STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE OF AN ELDERLY LADY . 
MUCH HASTE , LESS SPEED . 
BEING TOWED BY GIRLS EXCITING SENSATION . 
THE MISSING LOCK OR THE HAUNTED RIVER . 
SAVED ! WE made George work , now we had got him . 
He did not want to work , of course that goes without saying . 
He had had a hard time in the City , so he explained . 
The only reply we made to this , however , was to pass him over the tow line , and he took it , and stepped out . 
There is something very strange and unaccountable about a tow line . 
That is my opinion of tow lines in general . 
Of course , there may be honourable exceptions I do not say that there are not . 
I say there MAY be such tow lines I sincerely hope there are . 
But I have not met with them . 
This tow line I had taken in myself just before we had got to the lock . 
I would not let Harris touch it , because he is careless . 
Harris had lifted it up scientifically , and had put it into George's hand . 
It is always the same , and the same sort of thing always goes on in connection with it . 
On the other hand , the man who wound it up thinks the whole cause of the muddle rests with the man who is trying to unwind it . 
It was all right when you took it ! he exclaims indignantly . 
Why don't you think what you are doing ? You go about things in such a slap dash style . 
You'd get a scaffolding pole entangled you would ! And they feel so angry with one another that they would like to hang each other with the thing . 
Of course , this only gets it into a tighter tangle than ever . 
Then the second man climbs out of the boat and comes to help him , and they get in each other's way , and hinder one another . 
They both get hold of the same bit of line , and pull at it in opposite directions , and wonder where it is caught . 
In the end , they do get it clear , and then turn round and find that the boat has drifted off , and is making straight for the weir . 
This really happened once to my own knowledge . 
It was up by Boveney , one rather windy morning . 
We were pulling down stream , and , as we came round the bend , we noticed a couple of men on the bank . 
It was clear that something had happened , so we eased up and asked them what was the matter . 
Why , our boat's gone off ! they replied in an indignant tone . 
We found the truant for them half a mile further down , held by some rushes , and we brought it back to them . 
I bet they did not give that boat another chance for a week . 
I shall never forget the picture of those two men walking up and down the bank with a tow line , looking for their boat . 
One sees a good many funny incidents up the river in connection with towing . 
Something has gone wrong the rudder has come off , or the boat hook has slipped overboard , or his hat has dropped into the water and is floating rapidly down stream . 
He calls to them to stop , quite gently and politely at first . 
Hi ! stop a minute , will you ? he shouts cheerily . 
I've dropped my hat over board . 
Then Hi ! Tom Dick ! can't you hear ? not quite so affably this time . 
It is best to let one person tow . 
They were carrying a boat hook between them , and , attached to the boat hook was a tow line , which trailed behind them , its end in the water . 
No boat was near , no boat was in sight . 
Whatever the accident may have been , however , it had in no way disturbed the young lady and gentleman , who were towing . 
They had the boat hook and they had the line , and that seemed to be all that they thought necessary to their work . 
George was about to call out and wake them up , but , at that moment , a bright idea flashed across him , and he didn't . 
And that young man and young woman towed those four hulking chaps and a heavy boat up to Marlow . 
George fancied that , if it had not been for the restraining influence of the sweet woman at his side , the young man might have given way to violent language . 
George replied he did not know . 
Another example of the dangerous want of sympathy between tower and towed was witnessed by George and myself once up near Walton . 
It was where the tow path shelves gently down into the water , and we were camping on the opposite bank , noticing things in general . 
By and by a small boat came in sight , towed through the water at a tremendous pace by a powerful barge horse , on which sat a very small boy . 
Scattered about the boat , in dreamy and reposeful attitudes , lay five fellows , the man who was steering having a particularly restful appearance . 
I should like to see him pull the wrong line , murmured George , as they passed . 
And at that precise moment the man did it , and the boat rushed up the bank with a noise like the ripping up of forty thousand linen sheets . 
The last man went on twenty yards further , and then got out on his head . 
The fellows sat up and stared at one another . 
It was some seconds before they realised what had happened to them , but , when they did , they began to shout lustily for the boy to stop . 
He , however , was too much occupied with the horse to hear them , and we watched them , flying after him , until the distance hid them from view . 
I cannot say I was sorry at their mishap . 
Indeed , I only wish that all the young fools who have their boats towed in this fashion and plenty do could meet with similar misfortunes . 
Besides the risk they run themselves , they become a danger and an annoyance to every other boat they pass . 
Going at the pace they do , it is impossible for them to get out of anybody else's way , or for anybody else to get out of theirs . 
Their line gets hitched across your mast , and overturns you , or it catches somebody in the boat , and either throws them into the water , or cuts their face open . 
The best plan is to stand your ground , and be prepared to keep them off with the butt end of a mast . 
Of all experiences in connection with towing , the most exciting is being towed by girls . 
It is a sensation that nobody ought to miss . 
It takes three girls to tow always two hold the rope , and the other one runs round and round , and giggles . 
They generally begin by getting themselves tied up . 
They fix it straight , however , at last , and start off at a run , pulling the boat along at quite a dangerous pace . 
Then they stand up , and are surprised . 
Oh , look ! they say he's gone right out into the middle . 
You jump up , and push it off , and you shout to them not to stop . 
What's the matter ? they shout back . 
Don't stop , you roar . 
What do you want ? she says anything happened ? No , you reply , it's all right only go on , you know don't stop . 
Why not ? Why , we can't steer , if you keep stopping . 
You must keep some way on the boat . 
Keep some what ? Some way you must keep the boat moving . 
Oh , all right , I'll tell em . 
Are we doing it all right ? Oh , yes , very nicely , indeed , only don't stop . 
It doesn't seem difficult at all . 
I thought it was so hard . 
Oh , no , it's simple enough . 
You want to keep on steady at it , that's all . 
Give me out my red shawl , it's under the cushion . 
There is never a dull moment in the boat while girls are towing it . 
George got the line right after a while , and towed us steadily on to Penton Hook . 
There we discussed the important question of camping . 
We had decided to sleep on board that night , and we had either to lay up just about there , or go on past Staines . 
We all wished , however , afterward that we had stopped at Penton Hook . 
Three or four miles up stream is a trifle , early in the morning , but it is a weary pull at the end of a long day . 
You take no interest in the scenery during these last few miles . 
You do not chat and laugh . 
Every half mile you cover seems like two . 
I was out with a young lady cousin on my mother's side and we were pulling down to Goring . 
It was rather late , and we were anxious to get in at least SHE was anxious to get in . 
It was half past six when we reached Benson's lock , and dusk was drawing on , and she began to get excited then . 
She said she must be in to supper . 
I said it was a thing I felt I wanted to be in at , too and I drew out a map I had with me to see exactly how far it was . 
I saw it was just a mile and a half to the next lock Wallingford and five on from there to Cleeve . 
Oh , it's all right ! I said . 
We'll be through the next lock before seven , and then there is only one more and I settled down and pulled steadily away . 
We passed the bridge , and soon after that I asked if she saw the lock . 
She said no , she did not see any lock and I said , Oh ! and pulled on . 
Another five minutes went by , and then I asked her to look again . 
No , she said I can't see any signs of a lock . 
You you are sure you know a lock , when you do see one ? I asked hesitatingly , not wishing to offend her . 
The question did offend her , however , and she suggested that I had better look for myself so I laid down the sculls , and took a view . 
The river stretched out straight before us in the twilight for about a mile not a ghost of a lock was to be seen . 
You don't think we have lost our way , do you ? asked my companion . 
I did not see how that was possible though , as I suggested , we might have somehow got into the weir stream , and be making for the falls . 
This idea did not comfort her in the least , and she began to cry . 
She said we should both be drowned , and that it was a judgment on her for coming out with me . 
It seemed an excessive punishment , I thought but my cousin thought not , and hoped it would all soon be over . 
I tried to reassure her , and to make light of the whole affair . 
Then I began to get nervous myself . 
I looked again at the map . 
There was Wallingford lock , clearly marked , a mile and a half below Benson's . 
It was a good , reliable map and , besides , I recollected the lock myself . 
I had been through it twice . 
Heavenly melody , in our then state of mind , would only have still further harrowed us . 
A soul moving harmony , correctly performed , we should have taken as a spirit warning , and have given up all hope . 
But about the strains of He's got em on , jerked spasmodically , and with involuntary variations , out of a wheezy accordion , there was something singularly human and reassuring . 
The sweet sounds drew nearer , and soon the boat from which they were worked lay alongside us . 
It contained a party of provincial Arrys and Arriets , out for a moonlight sail . 
I never saw more attractive , lovable people in all my life . 
I hailed them , and asked if they could tell me the way to Wallingford lock and I explained that I had been looking for it for the last two hours . 
Wallingford lock ! they answered . 
Lor' love you , sir , that's been done away with for over a year . 
There ain't no Wallingford lock now , sir . 
You're close to Cleeve now . 
Blow me tight if ere ain't a gentleman been looking for Wallingford lock , Bill ! I had never thought of that . 
And we sang the soldiers' chorus out of FAUST , and got home in time for supper , after all . 
CHAPTER X. OUR FIRST NIGHT . 
CONTRARINESS OF TEA KETTLES , HOW TO OVERCOME . 
WANTED ! A COMFORTABLY APPOINTED , WELL DRAINED DESERT ISLAND , NEIGHBOURHOOD OF SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN PREFERRED . 
FUNNY THING THAT HAPPENED TO GEORGE'S FATHER . 
HARRIS and I began to think that Bell Weir lock must have been done away with after the same manner . 
But , somehow , we did not feel that we yearned for the picturesque nearly so much now as we had earlier in the day . 
A bit of water between a coal barge and a gas works would have quite satisfied us for that night . 
We did not want scenery . 
We wanted to have our supper and go to bed . 
, but George said no that we had better get the canvas up first , before it got quite dark , and while we could see what we were doing . 
Then , he said , all our work would be done , and we could sit down to eat with an easy mind . 
That canvas wanted more putting up than I think any of us had bargained for . 
It looked so simple in the abstract . 
That was an under estimate . 
We took up the hoops , and began to drop them into the sockets placed for them . 
You would not imagine this to be dangerous work but , looking back now , the wonder to me is that any of us are alive to tell the tale . 
They were not hoops , they were demons . 
We got them fixed at last , and then all that was to be done was to arrange the covering over them . 
George unrolled it , and fastened one end over the nose of the boat . 
Harris stood in the middle to take it from George and roll it on to me , and I kept by the stern to receive it . 
It was a long time coming down to me . 
George did his part all right , but it was new work to Harris , and he bungled it . 
He was so firmly wrapped round and tucked in and folded over , that he could not get out . 
, knocked over George and then George , swearing at Harris , began to struggle too , and got himself entangled and rolled up . 
I knew nothing about all this at the time . 
I did not understand the business at all myself . 
I had been told to stand where I was , and wait till the canvas came to me , and Montmorency and I stood there and waited , both as good as gold . 
We could see the canvas being violently jerked and tossed about , pretty considerably but we supposed this was part of the method , and did not interfere . 
It took us half an hour's hard labour , after that , before it was properly up , and then we cleared the decks , and got out supper . 
That is the only way to get a kettle to boil up the river . 
If it sees that you are waiting for it and are anxious , it will never even sing . 
You have to go away and begin your meal , as if you were not going to have any tea at all . 
You must not even look round at it . 
Then you will soon hear it sputtering away , mad to be made into tea . 
Upon which the kettle boils over , and puts the stove out . 
We adopted this harmless bit of trickery , and the result was that , by the time everything else was ready , the tea was waiting . 
Then we lit the lantern , and squatted down to supper . 
At the end of five and thirty minutes , Harris said , Ah ! and took his left leg out from under him and put his right one there instead . 
I did not even swear . 
One feels so forgiving and generous after a substantial and well digested meal so noble minded , so kindly hearted . 
It is very strange , this domination of our intellect by our digestive organs . 
We cannot work , we cannot think , unless our stomach wills so . 
It dictates to us our emotions , our passions . 
, it says to the brain , Now , rise , and show your strength . 
We are but the veriest , sorriest slaves of our stomach . 
Reach not after morality and righteousness , my friends watch vigilantly your stomach , and diet it with care and judgment . 
We loved each other , we loved everybody . 
Harris , in moving about , trod on George's corn . 
Had this happened before supper , George would have expressed wishes and desires concerning Harris's fate in this world and the next that would have made a thoughtful man shudder . 
As it was , he said Steady , old man ware wheat . 
And George said Not at all that it was his fault and Harris said no , it was his . 
It was quite pretty to hear them . 
We lit our pipes , and sat , looking out on the quiet night , and talked . 
George said why could not we be always like this away from the world , with its sin and temptation , leading sober , peaceful lives , and doing good . 
Harris said that the danger about desert islands , as far as he had heard , was that they were so damp but George said no , not if properly drained . 
And then we got on to drains , and that put George in mind of a very funny thing that happened to his father once . 
were slightly jolly , too . 
were to sleep in the same room , but in different beds . 
They took the candle , and went up . 
The candle lurched up against the wall when they got into the room , and went out , and they had to undress and grope into bed in the dark . 
There was silence for a moment , and then George's father said Joe ! What's the matter , Tom ? replied Joe's voice from the other end of the bed . 
Why , there's a man in my bed , said George's father here's his feet on my pillow . 
Well , I'm going to chuck him out , replied Joe . 
So am I , said George's father , valiantly . 
So's mine ! I say , I don't think much of this inn , do you ? What was the name of that inn ? said Harris . 
The Pig and Whistle , said George . 
Why ? Ah , no , then it isn't the same , replied Harris . 
What do you mean ? queried George . 
Why it's so curious , murmured Harris , but precisely that very same thing happened to MY father once at a country inn . 
I've often heard him tell the tale . 
I thought it might have been the same inn . 
We turned in at ten that night , and I thought I should sleep well , being tired but I didn't . 
, the sound of the lapping water round the boat , and the wind among the branches , kept me restless and disturbed . 
I thought it very unkind of them , and I told them I would owe them the money , and they should have it at the end of the month . 
But they would not hear of that , and said it would be much better if they had it then , because otherwise the interest would accumulate so . 
I got quite cross with them after a bit , and told them what I thought of them , and then they gave the gimlet such an excruciating wrench that I woke up . 
The boat seemed stuffy , and my head ached so I thought I would step out into the cool night air . 
I slipped on what clothes I could find about some of my own , and some of George's and Harris's and crept under the canvas on to the bank . 
It was a glorious night . 
The moon had sunk , and left the quiet earth alone with the stars . 
They awe us , these strange stars , so cold , so clear . 
And yet it seems so full of comfort and of strength , the night . 
In its great presence , our small sorrows creep away , ashamed . 
Sometimes , our pain is very deep and real , and we stand before her very silent , because there is no language for our pain , only a moan . 
And the leaves of the trees that grew in the wood were very dark and thick , so that no ray of light came through the branches to lighten the gloom and sadness . 
His clothes were ragged , like a beggar's , and many sad wounds were on his sweet flesh , but upon his face there shone a great radiance of deep joy . 
And the name of the dark forest was Sorrow but of the vision that the good knight saw therein we may not speak nor tell . 
HOW GEORGE , ONCE UPON A TIME , GOT UP EARLY IN THE MORNING . 
GEORGE , HARRIS , AND MONTMORENCY DO NOT LIKE THE LOOK OF THE COLD WATER . 
HEROISM AND DETERMINATION ON THE PART OF J. GEORGE AND HIS SHIRT STORY WITH A MORAL . 
HISTORICAL RETROSPECT , SPECIALLY INSERTED FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS . 
I WOKE at six the next morning and found George awake too . 
We both turned round , and tried to go to sleep again , but we could not . 
He said his watch went wrong one evening , and stopped at a quarter past eight . 
, and hung it up over his pillow without ever looking at the thing . 
He reached up , and hauled down his watch . 
It was a quarter past eight . 
Angels and ministers of grace defend us ! exclaimed George and here have I got to be in the City by nine . 
George snatched it up , and rushed downstairs . 
In the sitting room , all was dark and silent there was no fire , no breakfast . 
George said it was a wicked shame of Mrs. G. , and he made up his mind to tell her what he thought of her when he came home in the evening . 
Then he dashed on his great coat and hat , and , seizing his umbrella , made for the front door . 
The door was not even unbolted . 
It was certainly a very dark and foggy morning , but still it seemed an unusual course to stop all business on that account . 
HE had to go to business why should other people stop in bed merely because it was dark and foggy ! At length he reached Holborn . 
George pulled out his watch and looked at it it was five minutes to nine ! He stood still and counted his pulse . 
He stooped down and felt his legs . 
Then , with his watch still in his hand , he went up to the policeman , and asked him if he knew what the time was . 
What's the time ? said the man , eyeing George up and down with evident suspicion why , if you listen you will hear it strike . 
George listened , and a neighbouring clock immediately obliged . 
But it's only gone three ! said George in an injured tone , when it had finished . 
Well , and how many did you want it to go ? replied the constable . 
Why , nine , said George , showing his watch . 
Do you know where you live ? said the guardian of public order , severely . 
George thought , and gave the address . 
And George went home again , musing as he walked along , and let himself in . 
But even that did not enliven him it seemed slow somehow so he gave chess up and tried to read . 
He did not seem able to take any sort of interest in reading either , so he put on his coat again and went out for a walk . 
, they looked as though they did not believe him , and two plain clothes constables came home with him to see if he really did live where he had said he did . 
They saw him go in with his key , and then they took up a position opposite and watched the house . 
So he gave up trying to get breakfast , and wrapped himself up in his overcoat and sat in the easy chair till Mrs. G came down at half past seven . 
He said he had never got up too early since that morning it had been such a warning to him . 
The third prod did it and he turned over on the other side , and said he would be down in a minute , and that he would have his lace up boots . 
Then we pulled up the canvas , and all four of us poked our heads out over the off side , and looked down at the water and shivered . 
Somehow , now the morning had come , the notion seemed less tempting . 
The water looked damp and chilly the wind felt cold . 
Well , who's going to be first in ? said Harris at last . 
There was no rush for precedence . 
George settled the matter so far as he was concerned by retiring into the boat and pulling on his socks . 
I did not altogether like to give in , though I did not relish the plunge . 
There might be snags about , or weeds , I thought . 
The wind cut like a knife . 
I thought I would not throw the water over myself after all . 
By Jove ! old J. 's gone in , I heard Harris say , as I came blowing to the surface . 
I didn't think he'd have the pluck to do it . 
Did you ? Is it all right ? sung out George . 
Lovely , I spluttered back . 
You are duffers not to come in . 
I wouldn't have missed this for worlds . 
Why won't you try it ? It only wants a little determination . 
But I could not persuade them . 
Rather an amusing thing happened while dressing that morning . 
I was very cold when I got back into the boat , and , in my hurry to get my shirt on , I accidentally jerked it into the water . 
It made me awfully wild , especially as George burst out laughing . 
I could not see anything to laugh at , and I told George so , and he only laughed the more . 
I never saw a man laugh so much . 
I quite lost my temper with him at last , and I pointed out to him what a drivelling maniac of an imbecile idiot he was but he only roared the louder . 
Ar'n't you you going to get it out ? said George , between his shrieks . 
What ! he yelled , springing up . 
I tried to make him see the fun of the thing , but he could not . 
George is very dense at seeing a joke sometimes . 
Harris proposed that we should have scrambled eggs for breakfast . 
He said he would cook them . 
It seemed , from his account , that he was very good at doing scrambled eggs . 
He often did them at picnics and when out on yachts . 
He was quite famous for them . 
It seemed harassing work , so far as George and I could judge . 
Whenever he went near the pan he burned himself , and then he would drop everything and dance round the stove , flicking his fingers about and cursing the things . 
Indeed , every time George and I looked round at him he was sure to be performing this feat . 
We thought at first that it was a necessary part of the culinary arrangements . 
Montmorency went and put his nose over it once , and the fat spluttered up and scalded him , and then he began dancing and cursing . 
Altogether it was one of the most interesting and exciting operations I have ever witnessed . 
George and I were both quite sorry when it was over . 
The result was not altogether the success that Harris had anticipated . 
There seemed so little to show for the business . 
Six eggs had gone into the frying pan , and all that came out was a teaspoonful of burnt and unappetizing looking mess . 
The sun had got more powerful by the time we had finished breakfast , and the wind had dropped , and it was as lovely a morning as one could desire . 
It is a fine summer morning sunny , soft , and still . 
But through the air there runs a thrill of coming stir . 
Gay cloaked companies of knights and squires have ridden in , all travel stained and dusty . 
The firelight sheds quaint shadows on their piled up arms and on their uncouth forms . 
Ever since grey dawn , in the lower of the two islands , just above where we are standing , there has been great clamour , and the sound of many workmen . 
Not so ! This time the grip upon him has been one of iron , and he has slid and wriggled in vain . 
And front and rear , and either flank , there ride the yeomen of the Barons , and in the midst King John . 
He rides to where the barges lie in readiness , and the great Barons step forth from their ranks to meet him . 
He greets them with a smile and laugh , and pleasant honeyed words , as though it were some feast in his honour to which he had been invited . 
Had it been a Richard there ! the cup of liberty might have been dashed from England's lips , and the taste of freedom held back for a hundred years . 
And the Barons follow in , with each mailed hand upon the sword hilt , and the word is given to let go . 
Slowly the heavy , bright decked barges leave the shore of Runningmede . 
DISADVANTAGES OF LIVING IN SAME HOUSE WITH PAIR OF LOVERS . 
A TRYING TIME FOR THE ENGLISH NATION . 
A NIGHT SEARCH FOR THE PICTURESQUE . 
EFFECT OF SUDDEN JOY ON HARRIS . 
As far as my own personal opinion goes , however , I am inclined to give weight to the popular island theory . 
is said to have waited for and met Anne Boleyn . 
He also used to meet her at Hever Castle in Kent , and also somewhere near St . 
It must have been difficult for the people of England in those days to have found a spot where these thoughtless young folk were NOT spooning . 
Have you ever been in a house where there are a couple courting ? It is most trying . 
You think you will go and sit in the drawing room , and you march off there . 
Oh ! you say , pausing at the door , I didn't know anybody was here . 
Oh ! didn't you ? says Emily , coldly , in a tone which implies that she does not believe you . 
You hang about for a bit , then you say It's very dark . 
Why don't you light the gas ? John Edward says , Oh ! he hadn't noticed it and Emily says that papa does not like the gas lit in the afternoon . 
You tell them one or two items of news , and give them your views and opinions on the Irish question but this does not appear to interest them . 
Half an hour later , you think you will try a pipe in the conservatory . 
The only chair in the place is occupied by Emily and John Edward , if the language of clothes can be relied upon , has evidently been sitting on the floor . 
They do not speak , but they give you a look that says all that can be said in a civilised community and you back out promptly and shut the door behind you . 
This becomes uninteresting , however , after a time , and so you put on your hat and stroll out into the garden . 
It must have been much like this when that foolish boy Henry VIII . 
was courting his little Anne . 
in the lane , and he's going the same way I am . 
Then those people would have gone away and said to themselves Oh ! we'd better get out of here while this billing and cooing is on . 
We'll go down to Kent . 
And they would go to Kent , and the first thing they would see in Kent , when they got there , would be Henry and Anne fooling round Hever Castle . 
Oh , drat this ! they would have said . 
Here , let's go away . 
I can't stand any more of it . 
Albans nice quiet place , St . 
And when they reached St . 
Albans , there would be that wretched couple , kissing under the Abbey walls . 
Then these folks would go and be pirates until the marriage was over . 
From Picnic Point to Old Windsor Lock is a delightful bit of the river . 
Old Windsor is a famous spot in its way . 
Edward the Confessor had a palace here , and here the great Earl Godwin was proved guilty by the justice of that age of having encompassed the death of the King's brother . 
Earl Godwin broke a piece of bread and held it in his hand . 
After you pass Old Windsor , the river is somewhat uninteresting , and does not become itself again until you are nearing Boveney . 
I answered that I did remember it . 
It will be some time before I forget it . 
It was the Saturday before the August Bank Holiday . 
So we went on till we came to another hotel . 
He said he didn't look a nice man at all , and he wore ugly boots so we went on further . 
We went a goodish way without coming across any more hotels , and then we met a man , and asked him to direct us to a few . 
He said Why , you are coming away from them . 
You must turn right round and go back , and then you will come to the Stag . 
We said Oh , we had been there , and didn't like it no honeysuckle over it . 
Well , then , he said , there's the Manor House , just opposite . 
Well , I don't know what you'll do , I'm sure , said our informant because they are the only two inns in the place . 
No other inns ! exclaimed Harris . 
None , replied the man . 
What on earth are we to do ? cried Harris . 
He said Harris and I could get an hotel built for us , if we liked , and have some people made to put in . 
For his part , he was going back to the Stag . 
The greatest minds never realise their ideals in any matter and Harris and I sighed over the hollowness of all earthly desires , and followed George . 
We took our traps into the Stag , and laid them down in the hall . 
The landlord came up and said Good evening , gentlemen . 
Oh , good evening , said George we want three beds , please . 
Very sorry , sir , said the landlord but I'm afraid we can't manage it . 
Oh , well , never mind , said George , two will do . 
Two of us can sleep in one bed , can't we ? he continued , turning to Harris and me . 
Harris said , Oh , yes he thought George and I could sleep in one bed very easily . 
Very sorry , sir , again repeated the landlord but we really haven't got a bed vacant in the whole house . 
In fact , we are putting two , and even three gentlemen in one bed , as it is . 
This staggered us for a bit . 
But Harris , who is an old traveller , rose to the occasion , and , laughing cheerily , said Oh , well , we can't help it . 
You must give us a shake down in the billiard room . 
Three gentlemen sleeping on the billiard table already , and two in the coffee room . 
Can't possibly take you in to night . 
We picked up our things , and went over to the Manor House . 
It was a pretty little place . 
Harris spoke quite kindly and sensibly about it . 
The people at the Manor House did not wait to hear us talk . 
The landlady met us on the doorstep with the greeting that we were the fourteenth party she had turned away within the last hour and a half . 
As for our meek suggestions of stables , billiard room , or coal cellars , she laughed them all to scorn all these nooks had been snatched up long ago . 
The distance seemed more like a mile than half a mile , but we reached the place at last , and rushed , panting , into the bar . 
The people at the beershop were rude . 
They merely laughed at us . 
There were only three beds in the whole house , and they had seven single gentlemen and two married couples sleeping there already . 
A kind hearted bargeman , however , who happened to be in the tap room , thought we might try the grocer's , next door to the Stag , and we went back . 
This old woman walked very slowly , and we were twenty minutes getting to her lady friend's . 
She enlivened the journey by describing to us , as we trailed along , the various pains she had in her back . 
Her lady friend's rooms were let . 
From there we were recommended to No. . 
No. was full , and sent us to No. , and was full . 
Then we went back into the high road , and Harris sat down on the hamper and said he would go no further . 
He said it seemed a quiet spot , and he would like to die there . 
He requested George and me to kiss his mother for him , and to tell all his relations that he forgave them and died happy . 
There were two beds in the room one was a ft . 
We were not so uppish about what sort of hotel we would have , next time we went to Datchet . 
To return to our present trip nothing exciting happened , and we tugged steadily on to a little below Monkey Island , where we drew up and lunched . 
We tackled the cold beef for lunch , and then we found that we had forgotten to bring any mustard . 
I don't think I ever in my life , before or since , felt I wanted mustard as badly as I felt I wanted it then . 
I don't care for mustard as a rule , and it is very seldom that I take it at all , but I would have given worlds for it then . 
I don't know how many worlds there may be in the universe , but anyone who had brought me a spoonful of mustard at that precise moment could have had them all . 
I grow reckless like that when I want a thing and can't get it . 
Harris said he would have given worlds for mustard too . 
But there ! I daresay both Harris and I would have tried to back out of the bargain after we had got the mustard . 
He said it was a scandalous imposition , and he wrote to the TIMES about it . 
It cast a gloom over the boat , there being no mustard . 
We ate our beef in silence . 
Existence seemed hollow and uninteresting . 
We thought of the happy days of childhood , and sighed . 
We are very fond of pine apple , all three of us . 
We looked at the picture on the tin we thought of the juice . 
We smiled at one another , and Harris got a spoon ready . 
Then we looked for the knife to open the tin with . 
We turned out everything in the hamper . 
We turned out the bags . 
We pulled up the boards at the bottom of the boat . 
We took everything out on to the bank and shook it . 
There was no tin opener to be found . 
Then we all got mad . 
It was George's straw hat that saved his life that day . 
Harris got off with merely a flesh wound . 
After that , I took the tin off myself , and hammered at it with the mast till I was worn out and sick at heart , whereupon Harris took it in hand . 
We beat it out flat we beat it back square we battered it into every form known to geometry but we could not make a hole in it . 
Then we all three sat round it on the grass and looked at it . 
Maidenhead itself is too snobby to be pleasant . 
It is the haunt of the river swell and his overdressed female companion . 
It is the town of showy hotels , patronised chiefly by dudes and ballet girls . 
It is the witch's kitchen from which go forth those demons of the river steam launches . 
The LONDON JOURNAL duke always has his little place at Maidenhead and the heroine of the three volume novel always dines there when she goes out on the spree with somebody else's husband . 
We went through Maidenhead quickly , and then eased up , and took leisurely that grand reach beyond Boulter's and Cookham locks . 
Clieveden Woods still wore their dainty dress of spring , and rose up , from the water's edge , in one long harmony of blended shades of fairy green . 
In its unbroken loveliness this is , perhaps , the sweetest stretch of all the river , and lingeringly we slowly drew our little boat away from its deep peace . 
We pulled up in the backwater , just below Cookham , and had tea and , when we were through the lock , it was evening . 
A stiffish breeze had sprung up in our favour , for a wonder for , as a rule on the river , the wind is always dead against you whatever way you go . 
Then , after tea , the wind veers round , and you have to pull hard in its teeth all the way home . 
When you forget to take the sail at all , then the wind is consistently in your favour both ways . 
But there ! this world is only a probation , and man was born to trouble as the sparks fly upward . 
This evening , however , they had evidently made a mistake , and had put the wind round at our back instead of in our face . 
There is no more thrilling sensation I know of than sailing . 
It comes as near to flying as man has got to yet except in dreams . 
The wings of the rushing wind seem to be bearing you onward , you know not where . 
The earth seems far away and little and the clouds , so close above your head , are brothers , and you stretch your arms to them . 
As we drew nearer , we could see that the three men fishing seemed old and solemn looking men . 
They sat on three chairs in the punt , and watched intently their lines . 
And the red sunset threw a mystic light upon the waters , and tinged with fire the towering woods , and made a golden glory of the piled up clouds . 
It was an hour of deep enchantment , of ecstatic hope and longing . 
The little sail stood out against the purple sky , the gloaming lay around us , wrapping the world in rainbow shadows and , behind us , crept the night . 
We seemed like knights of some old legend , sailing across some mystic lake into the unknown realm of twilight , unto the great land of the sunset . 
We did not go into the realm of twilight we went slap into that punt , where those three old men were fishing . 
Harris let the sail down , and then we saw what had happened . 
But it did not do any good . 
George said he would steer , after that . 
And at Marlow we left the boat by the bridge , and went and put up for the night at the Crown . 
MONTMORENCY THINKS HE WILL MURDER AN OLD TOM CAT . 
BUT EVENTUALLY DECIDES THAT HE WILL LET IT LIVE . 
SHAMEFUL CONDUCT OF A FOX TERRIER AT THE CIVIL SERVICE STORES . 
THE STEAM LAUNCH , USEFUL RECEIPTS FOR ANNOYING AND HINDERING IT . 
WE DECLINE TO DRINK THE RIVER . 
STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE OF HARRIS AND A PIE . 
MARLOW is one of the pleasantest river centres I know of . 
There is lovely country round about it , too , if , after boating , you are fond of a walk , while the river itself is at its best here . 
Down to Cookham , past the Quarry Woods and the meadows , is a lovely reach . 
Bisham Abbey is rich in melodramatic properties . 
It contains a tapestry bed chamber , and a secret room hid high up in the thick walls . 
The ghost of the Lady Holy , who beat her little boy to death , still walks there at night , trying to wash its ghostly hands clean in a ghostly basin . 
Warwick , the king maker , rests there , careless now about such trivial things as earthly kings and earthly kingdoms and Salisbury , who did good service at Poitiers . 
, composed THE REVOLT OF ISLAM . 
By Hurley Weir , a little higher up , I have often thought that I could stay a month without having sufficient time to drink in all the beauty of the scene . 
The Cistercian monks , whose abbey stood there in the thirteenth century , wore no clothes but rough tunics and cowls , and ate no flesh , nor fish , nor eggs . 
They lay upon straw , and they rose at midnight to mass . 
They spent the day in labour , reading , and prayer and over all their lives there fell a silence as of death , for no one spoke . 
We got up tolerably early on the Monday morning at Marlow , and went for a bathe before breakfast and , coming back , Montmorency made an awful ass of himself . 
The only subject on which Montmorency and I have any serious difference of opinion is cats . 
I like cats Montmorency does not . 
, because I take it that it is his nature . 
I remember being in the lobby of the Haymarket Stores one day , and all round about me were dogs , waiting for the return of their owners , who were shopping inside . 
There were a mastiff , and one or two collies , and a St . 
There they sat , patient , good , and thoughtful . 
A solemn peacefulness seemed to reign in that lobby . 
An air of calmness and resignation of gentle sadness pervaded the room . 
Then a sweet young lady entered , leading a meek looking little fox terrier , and left him , chained up there , between the bull dog and the poodle . 
He sat and looked about him for a minute . 
Then he cast up his eyes to the ceiling , and seemed , judging from his expression , to be thinking of his mother . 
Then he looked round at the other dogs , all silent , grave , and dignified . 
He looked at the bull dog , sleeping dreamlessly on his right . 
He looked at the poodle , erect and haughty , on his left . 
The result of his first experiment seemed highly satisfactory to him , and he determined to go on and make things lively all round . 
He sprang over the poodle and vigorously attacked a collie , and the collie woke up , and immediately commenced a fierce and noisy contest with the poodle . 
The big dogs fought each other indiscriminately and the little dogs fought among themselves , and filled up their spare time by biting the legs of the big dogs . 
The whole lobby was a perfect pandemonium , and the din was terrific . 
His victim was a large black Tom . 
I never saw a larger cat , nor a more disreputable looking cat . 
It had lost half its tail , one of its ears , and a fairly appreciable proportion of its nose . 
It was a long , sinewy looking animal . 
It had a calm , contented air about it . 
He stopped abruptly , and looked back at Tom . 
Neither spoke but the conversation that one could imagine was clearly as follows THE CAT Can I do anything for you ? MONTMORENCY No no , thanks . 
THE CAT Don't you mind speaking , if you really want anything , you know . 
Oh , no not at all certainly don't you trouble . 
I I am afraid I've made a mistake . 
I thought I knew you . 
THE CAT Not at all quite a pleasure . 
Not at all , thanks not at all very kind of you . 
To this day , if you say the word Cats ! to Montmorency , he will visibly shrink and look up piteously at you , as if to say Please don't . 
We did our marketing after breakfast , and revictualled the boat for three days . 
George said we ought to take vegetables that it was unhealthy not to eat vegetables . 
He said they were easy enough to cook , and that he would see to that so we got ten pounds of potatoes , a bushel of peas , and a few cabbages . 
Our departure from Marlow I regard as one of our greatest successes . 
It was dignified and impressive , without being ostentatious . 
We had insisted at all the shops we had been to that the things should be sent with us then and there . 
We waited while the basket was packed , and took the boy with us . 
The order of the procession was as follows Montmorency , carrying a stick . 
Two disreputable looking curs , friends of Montmorency's . 
George , carrying coats and rugs , and smoking a short pipe . 
Harris , trying to walk with easy grace , while carrying a bulged out Gladstone bag in one hand and a bottle of lime juice in the other . 
Greengrocer's boy and baker's boy , with baskets . 
Boots from the hotel , carrying hamper . 
Confectioner's boy , with basket . 
Grocer's boy , with basket . 
Cheesemonger's boy , with basket . 
Odd man carrying a bag . 
Bosom companion of odd man , with his hands in his pockets , smoking a short clay . 
Fruiterer's boy , with basket . 
Myself , carrying three hats and a pair of boots , and trying to look as if I didn't know it . 
Six small boys , and four stray dogs . 
We had a good deal of trouble with steam launches that morning . 
It was just before the Henley week , and they were going up in large numbers some by themselves , some towing houseboats . 
I do hate steam launches I suppose every rowing man does . 
They used to HAVE to whistle for us to get out of their way . 
Steam launch , coming ! one of us would cry out , on sighting the enemy in the distance and , in an instant , everything was got ready to receive her . 
On would come the launch , whistling , and on we would go , drifting . 
No , not YOU the other one leave the lines alone , can't you now , both together . 
Another good way we discovered of irritating the aristocratic type of steam launch , was to mistake them for a beanfeast , and ask them if they were Messrs . 
Cubit's lot or the Bermondsey Good Templars , and could they lend us a saucepan . 
Old ladies , not accustomed to the river , are always intensely nervous of steam launches . 
I remember going up once from Staines to Windsor a stretch of water peculiarly rich in these mechanical monstrosities with a party containing three ladies of this description . 
At the first glimpse of every steam launch that came in view , they insisted on landing and sitting down on the bank until it was out of sight again . 
They said they were very sorry , but that they owed it to their families not to be fool hardy . 
We found ourselves short of water at Hambledon Lock so we took our jar and went up to the lock keeper's house to beg for some . 
Thank you so much , murmured George , looking about him . 
Where where do you keep it ? It's always in the same place my boy , was the stolid reply just behind you . 
I don't see it , said George , turning round . 
Why , bless us , where's your eyes ? was the man's comment , as he twisted George round and pointed up and down the stream . 
It's what I've drunk for the last fifteen years . 
George told him that his appearance , after the course , did not seem a sufficiently good advertisement for the brand and that he would prefer it out of a pump . 
We got some from a cottage a little higher up . 
I daresay THAT was only river water , if we had known . 
But we did not know , so it was all right . 
What the eye does not see , the stomach does not get upset over . 
We tried river water once , later on in the season , but it was not a success . 
We were coming down stream , and had pulled up to have tea in a backwater near Windsor . 
Our jar was empty , and it was a case of going without our tea or taking water from the river . 
Harris was for chancing it . 
He said it must be all right if we boiled the water . 
He said that the various germs of poison present in the water would be killed by the boiling . 
So we filled our kettle with Thames backwater , and boiled it and very careful we were to see that it did boil . 
Harris and I followed his gaze , and saw , coming down towards us on the sluggish current , a dog . 
It was one of the quietest and peacefullest dogs I have ever seen . 
I never met a dog who seemed more contented more easy in its mind . 
It was floating dreamily on its back , with its four legs stuck up straight into the air . 
It was what I should call a full bodied dog , with a well developed chest . 
George said he didn't want any tea , and emptied his cup into the water . 
Harris did not feel thirsty , either , and followed suit . 
I had drunk half mine , but I wished I had not . 
I asked George if he thought I was likely to have typhoid . 
He said Oh , no he thought I had a very good chance indeed of escaping it . 
Anyhow , I should know in about a fortnight , whether I had or had not . 
We went up the backwater to Wargrave . 
Half way up the backwater , we got out and lunched and it was during this lunch that George and I received rather a trying shock . 
Harris received a shock , too but I do not think Harris's shock could have been anything like so bad as the shock that George and I had over the business . 
You see , it was in this way we were sitting in a meadow , about ten yards from the water's edge , and we had just settled down comfortably to feed . 
Harris had the beefsteak pie between his knees , and was carving it , and George and I were waiting with our plates ready . 
Have you got a spoon there ? says Harris I want a spoon to help the gravy with . 
The hamper was close behind us , and George and I both turned round to reach one out . 
We were not five seconds getting it . 
When we looked round again , Harris and the pie were gone ! It was a wide , open field . 
There was not a tree or a bit of hedge for hundreds of yards . 
He could not have tumbled into the river , because we were on the water side of him , and he would have had to climb over us to do it . 
George and I gazed all about . 
Then we gazed at each other . 
Has he been snatched up to heaven ? I queried . 
They'd hardly have taken the pie too , said George . 
There seemed weight in this objection , and we discarded the heavenly theory . 
I suppose the truth of the matter is , suggested George , descending to the commonplace and practicable , that there has been an earthquake . 
And then he added , with a touch of sadness in his voice I wish he hadn't been carving that pie . 
Speak ! he cried , and tell us whether you are alive or dead and where is the rest of you ? Oh , don't be a stupid ass ! said Harris's head . 
I believe you did it on purpose . 
Did what ? exclaimed George and I. Why , put me to sit here darn silly trick ! Here , catch hold of the pie . 
He said he had never felt so surprised in all his life , as when he first felt himself going , without being able to conjecture in the slightest what had happened . 
He thought at first that the end of the world had come . 
Harris believes to this day that George and I planned it all beforehand . 
Thus does unjust suspicion follow even the most blameless for , as the poet says , Who shall escape calumny ? Who , indeed ! CHAPTER XIV . 
FIGHT BETWEEN MONTMORENCY AND THE TEA KETTLE . 
DIFFICULTIES IN THE WAY OF THE MUSICAL AMATEUR . 
LEARNING TO PLAY THE BAGPIPES . 
HARRIS FEELS SAD AFTER SUPPER . 
GEORGE AND I GO FOR A WALK . 
THERE IS A STRANGENESS ABOUT HARRIS . 
HARRIS AND THE SWANS , A REMARKABLE STORY . 
HARRIS HAS A TROUBLED NIGHT . 
WE caught a breeze , after lunch , which took us gently up past Wargrave and Shiplake . 
The George and Dragon at Wargrave boasts a sign , painted on the one side by Leslie , R. A. , and on the other by Hodgson of that ilk . 
Leslie has depicted the fight Hodgson has imagined the scene , After the Fight George , the work done , enjoying his pint of beer . 
Day , the author of SANDFORD AND MERTON , lived and more credit to the place still was killed at Wargrave . 
Fancy giving up all that for five shillings a year ! It is not worth it . 
He was exhibited for three weeks afterwards in the Town Hall , under a glass case . 
What has become of the money since no one knows . 
They say it is always handed over to the nearest wax works show . 
Shiplake is a pretty village , but it cannot be seen from the river , being upon the hill . 
Tennyson was married in Shiplake Church . 
The river up to Sonning winds in and out through many islands , and is very placid , hushed , and lonely . 
Few folk , except at twilight , a pair or two of rustic lovers , walk along its banks . 
Arry and Lord Fitznoodle have been left behind at Henley , and dismal , dirty Reading is not yet reached . 
We got out at Sonning , and went for a walk round the village . 
It is the most fairy like little nook on the whole river . 
It is more like a stage village than one built of bricks and mortar . 
Every house is smothered in roses , and now , in early June , they were bursting forth in clouds of dainty splendour . 
If you stop at Sonning , put up at the Bull , behind the church . 
It seemed a fascinating idea . 
George gathered wood and made a fire , and Harris and I started to peel the potatoes . 
I should never have thought that peeling potatoes was such an undertaking . 
The job turned out to be the biggest thing of its kind that I had ever been in . 
We began cheerfully , one might almost say skittishly , but our light heartedness was gone by the time the first potato was finished . 
George came and had a look at it it was about the size of a pea nut . 
He said Oh , that won't do ! You're wasting them . 
So we scraped them , and that was harder work than peeling . 
They are such an extraordinary shape , potatoes all bumps and warts and hollows . 
We worked steadily for five and twenty minutes , and did four potatoes . 
We said we should require the rest of the evening for scraping ourselves . 
I never saw such a thing as potato scraping for making a fellow in a mess . 
It seemed difficult to believe that the potato scrapings in which Harris and I stood , half smothered , could have come off four potatoes . 
It shows you what can be done with economy and care . 
George said it was absurd to have only four potatoes in an Irish stew , so we washed half a dozen or so more , and put them in without peeling . 
We also put in a cabbage and about half a peck of peas . 
There were half a pork pie and a bit of cold boiled bacon left , and we put them in . 
Then George found half a tin of potted salmon , and he emptied that into the pot . 
He said that was the advantage of Irish stew you got rid of such a lot of things . 
I fished out a couple of eggs that had got cracked , and put those in . 
George said they would thicken the gravy . 
We had a discussion as to whether the rat should go in or not . 
Harris said that he thought it would be all right , mixed up with the other things , and that every little helped but George stood up for precedent . 
He said he had never heard of water rats in Irish stew , and he would rather be on the safe side , and not try experiments . 
Harris said If you never try a new thing , how can you tell what it's like ? It's men such as you that hamper the world's progress . 
Think of the man who first tried German sausage ! It was a great success , that Irish stew . 
I don't think I ever enjoyed a meal more . 
There was something so fresh and piquant about it . 
One's palate gets so tired of the old hackneyed things here was a dish with a new flavour , with a taste like nothing else on earth . 
And it was nourishing , too . 
As George said , there was good stuff in it . 
We finished up with tea and cherry tart . 
Montmorency had a fight with the kettle during tea time , and came off a poor second . 
Throughout the trip , he had manifested great curiosity concerning the kettle . 
He would sit and watch it , as it boiled , with a puzzled expression , and would try and rouse it every now and then by growling at it . 
To day he determined he would be beforehand . 
At the first sound the kettle made , he rose , growling , and advanced towards it in a threatening attitude . 
It was only a little kettle , but it was full of pluck , and it up and spit at him . 
Ah ! would ye ! growled Montmorency , showing his teeth I'll teach ye to cheek a hard working , respectable dog ye miserable , long nosed , dirty looking scoundrel , ye . 
Come on ! And he rushed at that poor little kettle , and seized it by the spout . 
From that day Montmorency regarded the kettle with a mixture of awe , suspicion , and hate . 
Harris said he would rather have the headache . 
George has never learned to play the banjo to this day . 
He has had too much all round discouragement to meet . 
He tried on two or three evenings , while we were up the river , to get a little practice , but it was never a success . 
Harris's language used to be enough to unnerve any man added to which , Montmorency would sit and howl steadily , right through the performance . 
It was not giving the man a fair chance . 
What's he want to howl like that for when I'm playing ? George would exclaim indignantly , while taking aim at him with a boot . 
What do you want to play like that for when he is howling ? Harris would retort , catching the boot . 
He's got a musical ear , and your playing MAKES him howl . 
So George determined to postpone study of the banjo until he reached home . 
But he did not get much opportunity even there . 
Then George tried taking it out with him late at night , and practising round the square . 
But the inhabitants complained to the police about it , and a watch was set for him one night , and he was captured . 
The evidence against him was very clear , and he was bound over to keep the peace for six months . 
He seemed to lose heart in the business after that . 
It must be disheartening work learning a musical instrument . 
You would think that Society , for its own sake , would do all it could to assist a man to acquire the art of playing a musical instrument . 
Why , not even from the members of his own family did he receive what you could call active encouragement . 
His father was dead against the business from the beginning , and spoke quite unfeelingly on the subject . 
My friend used to get up early in the morning to practise , but he had to give that plan up , because of his sister . 
She was somewhat religiously inclined , and she said it seemed such an awful thing to begin the day like that . 
So he sat up at night instead , and played after the family had gone to bed , but that did not do , as it got the house such a bad name . 
If he were a man of strong mind , it only gave him fits but a person of mere average intellect it usually sent mad . 
There is , it must be confessed , something very sad about the early efforts of an amateur in bagpipes . 
I have felt that myself when listening to my young friend . 
They appear to be a trying instrument to perform upon . 
You have to get enough breath for the whole tune before you start at least , so I gathered from watching Jefferson . 
He would begin magnificently with a wild , full , come to the battle sort of a note , that quite roused you . 
But he would get more and more piano as he went on , and the last verse generally collapsed in the middle with a splutter and a hiss . 
You want to be in good health to play the bagpipes . 
Young Jefferson only learnt to play one tune on those bagpipes but I never heard any complaints about the insufficiency of his repertoire none whatever . 
This tune was The Campbells are Coming , Hooray Hooray ! so he said , though his father always held that it was The Blue Bells of Scotland . 
Nobody seemed quite sure what it was exactly , but they all agreed that it sounded Scotch . 
Strangers were allowed three guesses , and most of them guessed a different tune each time . 
He said he should have a glass of whisky and a pipe , and fix things up for the night . 
We were to shout when we returned , and he would row over from the island and fetch us . 
Don't go to sleep , old man , we said as we started . 
Not much fear of that while this stew's on , he grunted , as he pulled back to the island . 
Henley was getting ready for the regatta , and was full of bustle . 
And we hurried on to realise the vision . 
How many are there ? Only four , answered George . 
It will be all right , if he's awake . 
And if not ? I queried but we dismissed that train of thought . 
We shouted when we came opposite the first island , but there was no response so we went to the second , and tried there , and obtained the same result . 
Oh ! I remember now , said George it was the third one . 
And we ran on hopefully to the third one , and hallooed . 
No answer ! The case was becoming serious . 
it was now past midnight . 
But then there was the thought , Suppose he only hits us back and refuses to lock us up ! We could not pass the whole night fighting policemen . 
Besides , we did not want to overdo the thing and get six months . 
We despairingly tried what seemed in the darkness to be the fourth island , but met with no better success . 
The rain was coming down fast now , and evidently meant to last . 
We were wet to the skin , and cold and miserable . 
We began to understand the sufferings of the Babes in the Wood . 
Just when we had given up all hope yes , I know that is always the time that things do happen in novels and tales but I can't help it . 
It WAS just when we had given up all hope , and I must therefore say so . 
For an instant I thought of ghosts it was such a shadowy , mysterious light . 
The next moment it flashed across me that it was our boat , and I sent up such a yell across the water that made the night seem to shake in its bed . 
We waited breathless for a minute , and then oh ! divinest music of the darkness ! we heard the answering bark of Montmorency . 
There was an unaccountable strangeness about Harris . 
It was something more than mere ordinary tiredness . 
He pulled the boat against a part of the bank from which it was quite impossible for us to get into it , and immediately went to sleep . 
It took us an immense amount of screaming and roaring to wake him up again and put some sense into him but we succeeded at last , and got safely on board . 
Harris had a sad expression on him , so we noticed , when we got into the boat . 
He gave you the idea of a man who had been through trouble . 
Harris had chivied her off , and she had gone away , and fetched up her old man . 
Harris said he had had quite a fight with these two swans but courage and skill had prevailed in the end , and he had defeated them . 
Half an hour afterwards they returned with eighteen other swans ! It must have been a fearful battle , so far as we could understand Harris's account of it . 
How many swans did you say there were ? asked George . 
Thirty two , replied Harris , sleepily . 
You said eighteen just now , said George . 
No , I didn't , grunted Harris I said twelve . 
Think I can't count ? What were the real facts about these swans we never found out . 
We questioned Harris on the subject in the morning , and he said , What swans ? and seemed to think that George and I had been dreaming . 
We examined Harris as to what he had done with it but he did not seem to know what we meant by whisky , or what we were talking about at all . 
Montmorency looked as if he knew something , but said nothing . 
I slept well that night , and should have slept better if it had not been for Harris . 
I have a vague recollection of having been woke up at least a dozen times during the night by Harris wandering about the boat with the lantern , looking for his clothes . 
He seemed to be worrying about his clothes all night . 
Twice he routed up George and myself to see if we were lying on his trousers . 
George got quite wild the second time . 
What the thunder do you want your trousers for , in the middle of the night ? he asked indignantly . 
THE OLD RIVER HAND , WHAT HE DOES AND WHAT HE TELLS YOU HE HAS DONE . 
SCEPTICISM OF THE NEW GENERATION . 
GEORGE DOES THE THING IN STYLE . 
THE OLD BOATMAN , HIS METHOD . 
SO CALM , SO FULL OF PEACE . 
SAILING , MY FIRST EXPERIENCE . 
POSSIBLE REASON WHY WE WERE NOT DROWNED . 
WE woke late the next morning , and , at Harris's earnest desire , partook of a plain breakfast , with non dainties . 
, and , at about ten , set out on what we had determined should be a good day's journey . 
We agreed that we would pull this morning , as a change from towing and Harris thought the best arrangement would be that George and I should scull , and he steer . 
It seemed to me that I was doing more than my fair share of the work on this trip , and I was beginning to feel strongly on the subject . 
It always does seem to me that I am doing more work than I should do . 
It is not that I object to the work , mind you I like work it fascinates me . 
I can sit and look at it for hours . 
I love to keep it by me the idea of getting rid of it nearly breaks my heart . 
I shall have to throw out a wing soon . 
And I am careful of my work , too . 
Why , some of the work that I have by me now has been in my possession for years and years , and there isn't a finger mark on it . 
I take a great pride in my work I take it down now and then and dust it . 
No man keeps his work in a better state of preservation than I do . 
But , though I crave for work , I still like to be fair . 
I do not ask for more than my proper share . 
But I get it without asking for it at least , so it appears to me and this worries me . 
George says he does not think I need trouble myself on the subject . 
But I expect he only says this to comfort me . 
In a boat , I have always noticed that it is the fixed idea of each member of the crew that he is doing everything . 
Harris's notion was , that it was he alone who had been working , and that both George and I had been imposing upon him . 
He said he had never been out with such a couple of lazily skulks as Harris and I. That amused Harris . 
Fancy old George talking about work ! he laughed why , about half an hour of it would kill him . 
Have you ever seen George work ? he added , turning to me . 
I agreed with Harris that I never had most certainly not since we had started on this trip . 
Have you ever seen Harris fully awake , except at meal time ? asked George , addressing me . 
Truth compelled me to support George . 
Harris had been very little good in the boat , so far as helping was concerned , from the beginning . 
Well , hang it all , I've done more than old J. , anyhow , rejoined Harris . 
Well , you couldn't very well have done less , added George . 
I suppose J. thinks he is the passenger , continued Harris . 
It is the way of the world . 
We settled the present difficulty by arranging that Harris and George should scull up past Reading , and that I should tow the boat on from there . 
Pulling a heavy boat against a strong stream has few attractions for me now . 
There was a time , long ago , when I used to clamour for the hard work now I like to give the youngsters a chance . 
I notice that most of the old river hands are similarly retiring , whenever there is any stiff pulling to be done . 
About thirty four miles , I suppose , it must have been , adds the first speaker , reaching down another cushion to put under his head . 
No no don't exaggerate , Tom , murmurs Jack , reprovingly thirty three at the outside . 
And Jack and Tom , quite exhausted by this conversational effort , drop off to sleep once more . 
And the two simple minded youngsters at the sculls feel quite proud of being allowed to row such wonderful oarsmen as Jack and Tom , and strain away harder than ever . 
And that young man mocked at them all , and wanted us to repeat the feats then and there , and to bet us ten to one that we didn't . 
We got to chatting about our rowing experiences this morning , and to recounting stories of our first efforts in the art of oarsmanship . 
He , on the contrary is yearning to take you by the hand , and talk to you . 
It appears that he knows your father , and is intimately acquainted with yourself , but this does not draw you towards him . 
But it does not give you style . 
It was not till I came to the Thames that I got style . 
My style of rowing is very much admired now . 
People say it is so quaint . 
George never went near the water until he was sixteen . 
There was an eight oared racing outrigger drawn up on the stage that was the one that took their fancy . 
They said they'd have that one , please . 
The boatman was away , and only his boy was in charge . 
So the boy launched it , and they took off their coats and prepared to take their seats . 
The boy suggested that George , who , even in those days , was always the heavy man of any party , should be number four . 
George said he should be happy to be number four , and promptly stepped into bow's place , and sat down with his back to the stern . 
They got him into his proper position at last , and then the others followed . 
A particularly nervous boy was appointed cox , and the steering principle explained to him by Joskins . 
He told the others that it was simple enough all they had to do was to follow him . 
They said they were ready , and the boy on the landing stage took a boat hook and shoved him off . 
What then followed George is unable to describe in detail . 
They passed under Kew Bridge , broadside , at the rate of eight miles an hour . 
Joskins being the only one who was rowing . 
And then cox threw both rudder lines over board , and burst into tears . 
How they got back George never knew , but it took them just forty minutes . 
A dense crowd watched the entertainment from Kew Bridge with much interest , and everybody shouted out to them different directions . 
George said he little thought that afternoon that he should ever come to really like boating . 
Harris is more accustomed to sea rowing than to river work , and says that , as an exercise , he prefers it . 
When one scull was deep down underneath the water , the other would be flourishing wildly about in the air . 
To get a grip of the water with both at the same time I had to stand up . 
The parade was crowded with nobility and gentry , and I had to pull past them in this ridiculous fashion . 
I landed half way down the beach , and secured the services of an old boatman to take me back . 
I like to watch an old boatman rowing , especially one who has been hired by the hour . 
There is something so beautifully calm and restful about his method . 
It is so free from that fretful haste , that vehement striving , that is every day becoming more and more the bane of nineteenth century life . 
He is not for ever straining himself to pass all the other boats . 
This would trouble and irritate some people the sublime equanimity of the hired boatman under the ordeal affords us a beautiful lesson against ambition and uppishness . 
It is the time that worries a youngster . 
Bow finds it impossible to keep pace with stroke , because stroke rows in such an extraordinary fashion . 
Stroke is intensely indignant at this , and explains that what he has been endeavouring to do for the last ten minutes is to adapt his method to bow's limited capacity . 
Bow , in turn , then becomes insulted , and requests stroke not to trouble his head about him , but to devote his mind to setting a sensible stroke . 
Or , shall I take stroke ? he adds , with the evident idea that that would at once put the whole matter right . 
They splash along for another hundred yards with still moderate success , and then the whole secret of their trouble bursts upon stroke like a flash of inspiration . 
I tell you what it is you've got my sculls , he cries , turning to bow pass yours over . 
Well , do you know , I've been wondering how it was I couldn't get on with these , answers bow , quite brightening up , and most willingly assisting in the exchange . 
NOW we shall be all right . 
But they are not not even then . 
Stroke has to stretch his arms nearly out of their sockets to reach his sculls now while bow's pair , at each recovery , hit him a violent blow in the chest . 
George said he had often longed to take to punting for a change . 
Punting is not as easy as it looks . 
One young man I knew had a very sad accident happen to him the first time he went punting . 
Up he would march to the head of the punt , plant his pole , and then run along right to the other end , just like an old punter . 
Oh ! it was grand . 
The pole was firmly fixed in the mud , and he was left clinging to it while the punt drifted away . 
It was an undignified position for him . 
A rude boy on the bank immediately yelled out to a lagging chum to hurry up and see real monkey on a stick . 
I could not go to his assistance , because , as ill luck would have it , we had not taken the proper precaution to bring out a spare pole with us . 
I could only sit and look at him . 
His expression as the pole slowly sank with him I shall never forget there was so much thought in it . 
I watched him gently let down into the water , and saw him scramble out , sad and wet . 
I could not help laughing , he looked such a ridiculous figure . 
Here was I , alone in a punt , without a pole , drifting helplessly down mid stream possibly towards a weir . 
I began to feel very indignant with my friend for having stepped overboard and gone off in that way . 
He might , at all events , have left me the pole . 
I drifted on for about a quarter of a mile , and then I came in sight of a fishing punt moored in mid stream , in which sat two old fishermen . 
They saw me bearing down upon them , and they called out to me to keep out of their way . 
I can't , I shouted back . 
But you don't try , they answered . 
I explained the matter to them when I got nearer , and they caught me and lent me a pole . 
The weir was just fifty yards below . 
I am glad they happened to be there . 
The first time I went punting was in company with three other fellows they were going to show me how to do it . 
He was evidently a novice at punting , and his performance was most interesting . 
You never knew what was going to happen when he put the pole in he evidently did not know himself . 
Sometimes he shot up stream and sometimes he shot down stream , and at other times he simply spun round and came up the other side of the pole . 
And with every result he seemed equally surprised and annoyed . 
In the course of time my friends arrived on the opposite bank , and they stopped and watched him too . 
His back was towards them , and they only saw his jacket and cap . 
From this they immediately jumped to the conclusion that it was I , their beloved companion , who was making an exhibition of himself , and their delight knew no bounds . 
They commenced to chaff him unmercifully . 
They peppered him with stale jokes , they even made a few new ones and threw at him . 
They hurled at him all the private family jokes belonging to our set , and which must have been perfectly unintelligible to him . 
They explained to him that they had thought he was some one they knew . 
They said they hoped he would not deem them capable of so insulting any one except a personal friend of their own . 
Of course their having mistaken him for a friend excused it . 
I remember Harris telling me once of a bathing experience he had at Boulogne . 
He was swimming about there near the beach , when he felt himself suddenly seized by the neck from behind , and forcibly plunged under water . 
He struggled violently , but whoever had got hold of him seemed to be a perfect Hercules in strength , and all his efforts to escape were unavailing . 
He had given up kicking , and was trying to turn his thoughts upon solemn things , when his captor released him . 
He regained his feet , and looked round for his would be murderer . 
Sailing is a thing that wants knowledge and practice too though , as a boy , I did not think so . 
I had an idea it came natural to a body , like rounders and touch . 
I knew another boy who held this view likewise , and so , one windy day , we thought we would try the sport . 
We were stopping down at Yarmouth , and we decided we would go for a trip up the Yare . 
We hired a sailing boat at the yard by the bridge , and started off . 
It's rather a rough day , said the man to us , as we put off better take in a reef and luff sharp when you get round the bend . 
Hector I think that was his name went on pulling while I unrolled the sail . 
But it was a long time before we could get it up , either that way or any other way . 
The impression on the mind of the sail seemed to be that we were playing at funerals , and that I was the corpse and itself was the winding sheet . 
When it found that this was not the idea , it hit me over the head with the boom , and refused to do anything . 
Wet it , said Hector drop it over and get it wet . 
He said people in ships always wetted the sails before they put them up . 
So I wetted it but that only made matters worse than they were before . 
A dry sail clinging to your legs and wrapping itself round your head is not pleasant , but , when the sail is sopping wet , it becomes quite vexing . 
We did get the thing up at last , the two of us together . 
We fixed it , not exactly upside down more sideways like and we tied it up to the mast with the painter , which we cut off for the purpose . 
That the boat did not upset I simply state as a fact . 
Why it did not upset I am unable to offer any reason . 
I have often thought about the matter since , but I have never succeeded in arriving at any satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon . 
Possibly the result may have been brought about by the natural obstinacy of all things in this world . 
That is the only suggestion I can offer . 
By clinging like grim death to the gunwale , we just managed to keep inside the boat , but it was exhausting work . 
As my advice was by far the easiest to follow , we ended by adopting it , and contrived to embrace the gunwale and give her her head . 
The boat travelled up stream for about a mile at a pace I have never sailed at since , and don't want to again . 
Then , at a bend , she heeled over till half her sail was under water . 
Then she righted herself by a miracle and flew for a long low bank of soft mud . 
That mud bank saved us . 
The boat ploughed its way into the middle of it and then stuck . 
We had had enough sailing . 
We did not want to overdo the thing and get a surfeit of it . 
We had had a sail a good all round exciting , interesting sail and now we thought we would have a row , just for a change like . 
We took the sculls and tried to push the boat off the mud , and , in doing so , we broke one of the sculls . 
After that we proceeded with great caution , but they were a wretched old pair , and the second one cracked almost easier than the first , and left us helpless . 
The mud stretched out for about a hundred yards in front of us , and behind us was the water . 
The only thing to be done was to sit and wait until someone came by . 
It was not the sort of day to attract people out on the river , and it was three hours before a soul came in sight . 
It was an old fisherman who , with immense difficulty , at last rescued us , and we were towed back in an ignominious fashion to the boat yard . 
But we learned experience , and they say that is always cheap at any price . 
WE ARE TOWED BY STEAM LAUNCH . 
IRRITATING BEHAVIOUR OF SMALL BOATS . 
HOW THEY GET IN THE WAY OF STEAM LAUNCHES . 
GEORGE AND HARRIS AGAIN SHIRK THEIR WORK . 
WE came in sight of Reading about eleven . 
The river is dirty and dismal here . 
One does not linger in the neighbourhood of Reading . 
In later years , Reading seems to have been regarded as a handy place to run down to , when matters were becoming unpleasant in London . 
Parliament generally rushed off to Reading whenever there was a plague on at Westminster and , in , the Law followed suit , and all the courts were held at Reading . 
It must have been worth while having a mere ordinary plague now and then in London to get rid of both the lawyers and the Parliament . 
During the Parliamentary struggle , Reading was besieged by the Earl of Essex , and , a quarter of a century later , the Prince of Orange routed King James's troops there . 
At Reading lock we came up with a steam launch , belonging to some friends of mine , and they towed us up to within about a mile of Streatley . 
It is very delightful being towed up by a launch . 
I prefer it myself to rowing . 
It is really most annoying , the manner in which these rowing boats get in the way of one's launch up the river something ought to done to stop it . 
And they are so confoundedly impertinent , too , over it . 
You can whistle till you nearly burst your boiler before they will trouble themselves to hurry . 
I would have one or two of them run down now and then , if I had my way , just to teach them all a lesson . 
The river becomes very lovely from a little above Reading . 
The railway rather spoils it near Tilehurst , but from Mapledurham up to Streatley it is glorious . 
A little above Mapledurham lock you pass Hardwick House , where Charles I. played bowls . 
The neighbourhood of Pangbourne , where the quaint little Swan Inn stands , must be as familiar to the HABITUES of the Art Exhibitions as it is to its own inhabitants . 
My friends' launch cast us loose just below the grotto , and then Harris wanted to make out that it was my turn to pull . 
This seemed to me most unreasonable . 
It had been arranged in the morning that I should bring the boat up to three miles above Reading . 
Well , here we were , ten miles above Reading ! Surely it was now their turn again . 
I could not get either George or Harris to see the matter in its proper light , however so , to save argument , I took the sculls . 
I had not been pulling for more than a minute or so , when George noticed something black floating on the water , and we drew up to it . 
George leant over , as we neared it , and laid hold of it . 
And then he drew back with a cry , and a blanched face . 
It was the dead body of a woman . 
It lay very lightly on the water , and the face was sweet and calm . 
Fortunately for us we having no desire to be kept hanging about coroners' courts some men on the bank had seen the body too , and now took charge of it from us . 
We found out the woman's story afterwards . 
Of course it was the old , old vulgar tragedy . 
She had loved and been deceived or had deceived herself . 
Anyhow , she had sinned some of us do now and then and her family and friends , naturally shocked and indignant , had closed their doors against her . 
Left to fight the world alone , with the millstone of her shame around her neck , she had sunk ever lower and lower . 
Six shillings a week does not keep body and soul together very unitedly . 
And the old river had taken her into its gentle arms , and had laid her weary head upon its bosom , and had hushed away the pain . 
Thus had she sinned in all things sinned in living and in dying . 
God help her ! and all other sinners , if any more there be . 
Goring on the left bank and Streatley on the right are both or either charming places to stay at for a few days . 
The reaches down to Pangbourne woo one for a sunny sail or for a moonlight row , and the country round about is full of beauty . 
I am not in a position either to contradict or affirm this statement . 
It is an ancient place , Streatley , dating back , like most river side towns and villages , to British and Saxon times . 
ON THE ART OF ANGLING . 
WE stayed two days at Streatley , and got our clothes washed . 
We had tried washing them ourselves , in the river , under George's superintendence , and it had been a failure . 
Indeed , it had been more than a failure , because we were worse off after we had washed our clothes than we were before . 
Before we had washed them , they had been very , very dirty , it is true but they were just wearable . 
AFTER we had washed them well , the river between Reading and Henley was much cleaner , after we had washed our clothes in it , than it was before . 
All the dirt contained in the river between Reading and Henley , we collected , during that wash , and worked it into our clothes . 
The washerwoman at Streatley said she felt she owed it to herself to charge us just three times the usual prices for that wash . 
She said it had not been like washing , it had been more in the nature of excavating . 
We paid the bill without a murmur . 
The neighbourhood of Streatley and Goring is a great fishing centre . 
There is some excellent fishing to be had here . 
The river abounds in pike , roach , dace , gudgeon , and eels , just here and you can sit and fish for them all day . 
All it says is the place is a good station for fishing and , from what I have seen of the district , I am quite prepared to bear out this statement . 
There is no spot in the world where you can get more fishing , or where you can fish for a longer period . 
Some fishermen come here and fish for a day , and others stop and fish for a month . 
You can hang on and fish for a year , if you want to it will be all the same . 
The ANGLER'S GUIDE TO THE THAMES says that jack and perch are also to be had about here , but there the ANGLER'S GUIDE is wrong . 
Jack and perch may BE about there . 
Indeed , I know for a fact that they are . 
You can SEE them there in shoals , when you are out for a walk along the banks they come and stand half out of the water with their mouths open for biscuits . 
And , if you go for a bathe , they crowd round , and get in your way , and irritate you . 
But they are not to be had by a bit of worm on the end of a hook , nor anything like it not they ! I am not a good fisherman myself . 
They said that I was an extremely neat thrower , and that I seemed to have plenty of gumption for the thing , and quite enough constitutional laziness . 
But they were sure I should never make anything of a fisherman . 
I had not got sufficient imagination . 
Some people are under the impression that all that is required to make a good fisherman is the ability to tell lies easily and without blushing but this is a mistake . 
Mere bald fabrication is useless the veriest tyro can manage that . 
It is in the circumstantial detail , the embellishing touches of probability , the general air of scrupulous almost of pedantic veracity , that the experienced angler is seen . 
There is no art , no skill , required for that sort of thing . 
It shows pluck , but that is all . 
No your accomplished angler would scorn to tell a lie , that way . 
His method is a study in itself . 
He comes in quietly with his hat on , appropriates the most comfortable chair , lights his pipe , and commences to puff in silence . 
Oh ! why's that ? they ask . 
There is a pause after this , nobody feeling sufficiently sure of himself to contradict the old gentleman . 
So he has to go on by himself without any encouragement . 
No , he continues thoughtfully I shouldn't believe it myself if anybody told it to me , but it's a fact , for all that . 
I thought it was another little one , and I went to jerk it up . 
It did used to knock me over a bit at first , but , lor love you ! me and the missus we listens to em all day now . 
It's what you're used to , you know . 
It's what you're used to . 
When I have caught forty fish , said he , then I will tell people that I have caught fifty , and so on . 
But I will not lie any more than that , because it is sinful to lie . 
But the twenty five per cent . 
plan did not work well at all . 
He never was able to use it . 
The greatest number of fish he ever caught in one day was three , and you can't add twenty five per cent . 
to three at least , not in fish . 
He stuck to this arrangement for a couple of months , and then he grew dissatisfied with it . 
Then , if by any chance he really did catch one fish , he called it twenty , while two fish would count thirty , three forty , and so on . 
It is a simple and easily worked plan , and there has been some talk lately of its being made use of by the angling fraternity in general . 
Indeed , the Committee of the Thames Angler's Association did recommend its adoption about two years ago , but some of the older members opposed it . 
They said they would consider the idea if the number were doubled , and each fish counted as twenty . 
We went into the parlour and sat down . 
There was an old fellow there , smoking a long clay pipe , and we naturally began chatting . 
After that it came out , somehow or other , that we were strangers in the neighbourhood , and that we were going away the next morning . 
Then a pause ensued in the conversation , during which our eyes wandered round the room . 
They finally rested upon a dusty old glass case , fixed very high up above the chimney piece , and containing a trout . 
It rather fascinated me , that trout it was such a monstrous fish . 
In fact , at first glance , I thought it was a cod . 
Eighteen pounds six ounces , said our friend , rising and taking down his coat . 
Yes , he continued , it wur sixteen year ago , come the third o' next month , that I landed him . 
I caught him just below the bridge with a minnow . 
They told me he wur in the river , and I said I'd have him , and so I did . 
You don't see many fish that size about here now , I'm thinking . 
Good night , gentlemen , good night . 
And out he went , and left us alone . 
We could not take our eyes off the fish after that . 
It really was a remarkably fine fish . 
Good sized trout , that , said George , turning round to him . 
We were strangers in the neighbourhood . 
Ah ! said the carrier , then , of course , how should you ? It was nearly five years ago that I caught that trout . 
Oh ! was it you who caught it , then ? said I. Yes , sir , replied the genial old fellow . 
I caught him just below the lock leastways , what was the lock then one Friday afternoon and the remarkable thing about it is that I caught him with a fly . 
Well , you see , he weighed twenty six pound . 
Good night , gentlemen , good night . 
Why , who told you I caught that trout ! was the surprised query . 
We said that nobody had told us so , but somehow or other we felt instinctively that it was he who had done it . 
Well , it's a most remarkable thing most remarkable , answered the stolid stranger , laughing because , as a matter of fact , you are quite right . 
But fancy your guessing it like that . 
Dear me , it's really a most remarkable thing . 
And then he went on , and told us how it had taken him half an hour to land it , and how it had broken his rod . 
He said he had weighed it carefully when he reached home , and it had turned the scale at thirty four pounds . 
He went in his turn , and when he was gone , the landlord came in to us . 
We told him the various histories we had heard about his trout , and he was immensely amused , and we all laughed very heartily . 
Fancy Jim Bates and Joe Muggles and Mr. Jones and old Billy Maunders all telling you that they had caught it . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! Well , that is good , said the honest old fellow , laughing heartily . 
He said that bringing home that trout had saved him from a whacking , and that even his school master had said it was worth the rule of three and practice put together . 
He was called out of the room at this point , and George and I again turned our gaze upon the fish . 
It really was a most astonishing trout . 
The more we looked at it , the more we marvelled at it . 
It excited George so much that he climbed up on the back of a chair to get a better view of it . 
You haven't injured the fish , have you ? I cried in alarm , rushing up . 
I hope not , said George , rising cautiously and looking about . 
That trout lay shattered into a thousand fragments I say a thousand , but they may have only been nine hundred . 
I did not count them . 
We thought it strange and unaccountable that a stuffed trout should break up into little pieces like that . 
And so it would have been strange and unaccountable , if it had been a stuffed trout , but it was not . 
That trout was plaster of Paris . 
GEORGE AND I ARE PHOTOGRAPHED . 
A GOOD SPOT FOR DROWNING . 
A DIFFICULT BIT OF WATER . 
DEMORALIZING EFFECT OF RIVER AIR . 
WE left Streatley early the next morning , and pulled up to Culham , and slept under the canvas , in the backwater there . 
The river is not extraordinarily interesting between Streatley and Wallingford . 
From Cleve you get a stretch of six and a half miles without a lock . 
I believe this is the longest uninterrupted stretch anywhere above Teddington , and the Oxford Club make use of it for their trial eights . 
But however satisfactory this absence of locks may be to rowing men , it is to be regretted by the mere pleasure seeker . 
For myself , I am fond of locks . 
They pleasantly break the monotony of the pull . 
They are picturesque little spots , these locks . 
The stout old lock keeper , or his cheerful looking wife , or bright eyed daughter , are pleasant folk to have a passing chat with . 
You meet other boats there , and river gossip is exchanged . 
The Thames would not be the fairyland it is without its flower decked locks . 
The Conservancy of late seems to have constituted itself into a society for the employment of idiots . 
A good many of the new lock keepers , especially in the more crowded portions of the river , are excitable , nervous old men , quite unfitted for their post . 
Talking of locks reminds me of an accident George and I very nearly had one summer's morning at Hampton Court . 
My first idea was that he had suddenly caught sight of some girl he knew , and I looked about to see who it was . 
Everybody in the lock seemed to have been suddenly struck wooden . 
They were all standing or sitting about in the most quaint and curious attitudes I have ever seen off a Japanese fan . 
All the girls were smiling . 
Oh , they did look so sweet ! And all the fellows were frowning , and looking stern and noble . 
And then , at last , the truth flashed across me , and I wondered if I should be in time . 
Ours was the first boat , and it would be unkind of me to spoil the man's picture , I thought . 
So I faced round quickly , and took up a position in the prow , where I leant with careless grace upon the hitcher , in an attitude suggestive of agility and strength . 
As we stood , waiting for the eventful moment , I heard someone behind call out Hi ! look at your nose . 
I could not turn round to see what was the matter , and whose nose it was that was to be looked at . 
I stole a side glance at George's nose ! It was all right at all events , there was nothing wrong with it that could be altered . 
I squinted down at my own , and that seemed all that could be expected also . 
Look at your nose , you stupid ass ! came the same voice again , louder . 
And then another voice cried Push your nose out , can't you , you you two with the dog ! Neither George nor I dared to turn round . 
The man's hand was on the cap , and the picture might be taken any moment . 
It's your two corpses that will get taken in that photo , if you ain't quick . 
In another moment we should be over . 
Our feet were undoubtedly the leading article in that photograph . 
Indeed , very little else was to be seen . 
They filled up the foreground entirely . 
The owner of one steam launch , who had bespoke six copies , rescinded the order on seeing the negative . 
He said he would take them if anybody could show him his launch , but nobody could . 
It was somewhere behind George's right foot . 
There was a good deal of unpleasantness over the business . 
The photographer thought we ought to take a dozen copies each , seeing that the photo was about nine tenths us , but we declined . 
We said we had no objection to being photo'd full length , but we preferred being taken the right way up . 
Wallingford , six miles above Streatley , is a very ancient town , and has been an active centre for the making of English history . 
It was a walled and fortified town up to the time of the Parliamentary War , when it suffered a long and bitter siege from Fairfax . 
It fell at last , and then the walls were razed . 
From Wallingford up to Dorchester the neighbourhood of the river grows more hilly , varied , and picturesque . 
Dorchester stands half a mile from the river . 
Dorchester is a delightfully peaceful old place , nestling in stillness and silence and drowsiness . 
Dorchester , like Wallingford , was a city in ancient British times it was then called Caer Doren , the city on the water . 
In more recent times the Romans formed a great camp here , the fortifications surrounding which now seem like low , even hills . 
In Saxon days it was the capital of Wessex . 
It is very old , and it was very strong and great once . 
Now it sits aside from the stirring world , and nods and dreams . 
Round Clifton Hampden , itself a wonderfully pretty village , old fashioned , peaceful , and dainty with flowers , the river scenery is rich and beautiful . 
If you stay the night on land at Clifton , you cannot do better than put up at the Barley Mow . 
It is , without exception , I should say , the quaintest , most old world inn up the river . 
It stands on the right of the bridge , quite away from the village . 
Its low pitched gables and thatched roof and latticed windows give it quite a story book appearance , while inside it is even still more once upon a timeyfied . 
It would not be a good place for the heroine of a modern novel to stay at . 
The heroine of a modern novel is always divinely tall , and she is ever drawing herself up to her full height . 
At the Barley Mow she would bump her head against the ceiling each time she did this . 
It would also be a bad house for a drunken man to put up at . 
We were up early the next morning , as we wanted to be in Oxford by the afternoon . 
It is surprising how early one can get up , when camping out . 
We had finished breakfast , and were through Clifton Lock by half past eight . 
At Abingdon , the river passes by the streets . 
Abingdon is a typical country town of the smaller order quiet , eminently respectable , clean , and desperately dull . 
It prides itself on being old , but whether it can compare in this respect with Wallingford and Dorchester seems doubtful . 
A famous abbey stood here once , and within what is left of its sanctified walls they brew bitter ale nowadays . 
Helen's Church , it is recorded that W. Lee , who died in , had in his lifetime issue from his loins two hundred lacking but three . 
If you work this out you will find that Mr. W. Lee's family numbered one hundred and ninety seven . 
From Abingdon to Nuneham Courteney is a lovely stretch . 
Nuneham Park is well worth a visit . 
It can be viewed on Tuesdays and Thursdays . 
The house contains a fine collection of pictures and curiosities , and the grounds are very beautiful . 
The pool under Sandford lasher , just behind the lock , is a very good place to drown yourself in . 
The undercurrent is terribly strong , and if you once get down into it you are all right . 
Iffley Lock and Mill , a mile before you reach Oxford , is a favourite subject with the river loving brethren of the brush . 
The real article , however , is rather disappointing , after the pictures . 
Few things , I have noticed , come quite up to the pictures of them , in this world . 
Between Iffley and Oxford is the most difficult bit of the river I know . 
You want to be born on that bit of water , to understand it . 
I have been over it a fairish number of times , but I have never been able to get the hang of it . 
I don't know why it should be , but everybody is always so exceptionally irritable on the river . 
Little mishaps , that you would hardly notice on dry land , drive you nearly frantic with rage , when they occur on the water . 
When another boat gets in my way , I feel I want to take an oar and kill all the people in it . 
The mildest tempered people , when on land , become violent and blood thirsty when in a boat . 
I did a little boating once with a young lady . 
She was naturally of the sweetest and gentlest disposition imaginable , but on the river it was quite awful to hear her . 
And she would catch hold of it , and shake it quite brutally . 
Yet , as I have said , when on shore she was kind hearted and amiable enough . 
THE HIRED UP RIVER BOAT , ITS BEAUTIES AND ADVANTAGES . 
THE PRIDE OF THE THAMES . 
THE RIVER UNDER DIFFERENT ASPECTS . 
THE CHEERY CHAT GOES ROUND . 
GEORGE PERFORMS UPON THE BANJO . 
A LITTLE SUPPER AND A TOAST . 
WE spent two very pleasant days at Oxford . 
There are plenty of dogs in the town of Oxford . 
Montmorency had eleven fights on the first day , and fourteen on the second , and evidently thought he had got to heaven . 
For the energetic , however , the up stream journey is certainly to be preferred . 
It does not seem good to be always going with the current . 
The boats that , as a rule , are let for hire on the Thames above Marlow , are very good boats . 
They are fairly water tight and so long as they are handled with care , they rarely come to pieces , or sink . 
There are places in them to sit down on , and they are complete with all the necessary arrangements or nearly all to enable you to row them and steer them . 
But they are not ornamental . 
The boat you hire up the river above Marlow is not the sort of boat in which you can flash about and give yourself airs . 
The hired up river boat very soon puts a stop to any nonsense of that sort on the part of its occupants . 
That is its chief one may say , its only recommendation . 
The man in the hired up river boat is modest and retiring . 
When the man in the hired up river boat sees anyone he knows , he gets out on to the bank , and hides behind a tree . 
I was one of a party who hired an up river boat one summer , for a few days' trip . 
We had none of us ever seen the hired up river boat before and we did not know what it was when we did see it . 
Jim , fetch round THE PRIDE OF THE THAMES . 
that the thing the boy had found was the fossil of a whale and he pointed out to us various evidences proving that it must have belonged to the preglacial period . 
To settle the dispute , we appealed to the boy . 
Come , come , my lad ! said our captain sharply , don't let us have any nonsense . 
You take your mother's washing tub home again , and bring us a boat . 
We grumbled a good deal . 
He even seemed offended at our remarks . 
He said he had picked us out the best boat in all his stock , and he thought we might have been more grateful . 
, for the last forty years , to his knowledge , and nobody had complained of it before , and he did not see why we should be the first to begin . 
Sunlight is the life blood of Nature . 
Mother Earth looks at us with such dull , soulless eyes , when the sunlight has died away from out of her . 
It makes us sad to be with her then she does not seem to know us or to care for us . 
She is as a widow who has lost the husband she loved , and her children touch her hand , and look up into her eyes , but gain no smile from her . 
We rowed on all that day through the rain , and very melancholy work it was . 
We pretended , at first , that we enjoyed it . 
We said it was a change , and that we liked to see the river under all its different aspects . 
We said we could not expect to have it all sunshine , nor should we wish it . 
We told each other that Nature was beautiful , even in her tears . 
Indeed , Harris and I were quite enthusiastic about the business , for the first few hours . 
George took the fun more soberly , and stuck to the umbrella . 
In this way we made nine miles , and pulled up for the night a little below Day's Lock . 
I cannot honestly say that we had a merry evening . 
The rain poured down with quiet persistency . 
Everything in the boat was damp and clammy . 
Supper was not a success . 
Cold veal pie , when you don't feel hungry , is apt to cloy . 
George requested that we would not talk about these things , at all events until he had finished his cold boiled beef without mustard . 
We played penny nap after supper . 
We thought we would give up gambling then . 
As Harris said , it breeds an unhealthy excitement when carried too far . 
George offered to go on and give us our revenge but Harris and I decided not to battle any further against Fate . 
After that , we mixed ourselves some toddy , and sat round and talked . 
George said he was quite a young man , and was engaged to be married . 
He said it was one of the saddest things he had ever known . 
Harris said he would introduce us both to the man when we got back to town it would make our hearts bleed to see him . 
I will say for George that he did not want any pressing . 
There was no nonsense about having left his music at home , or anything of that sort . 
He at once fished out his instrument , and commenced to play Two Lovely Black Eyes . 
I had always regarded Two Lovely Black Eyes as rather a commonplace tune until that evening . 
The rich vein of sadness that George extracted from it quite surprised me . 
When the chorus came we even made a desperate effort to be merry . 
The unutterable pathos of George's accompaniment to that two we were , in our then state of depression , unable to bear . 
Harris sobbed like a little child , and the dog howled till I thought his heart or his jaw must surely break . 
George wanted to go on with another verse . 
The feeling of the majority , however , was opposed to the experiment . 
There being nothing else to do , we went to bed that is , we undressed ourselves , and tossed about at the bottom of the boat for some three or four hours . 
After which , we managed to get some fitful slumber until five a . 
, when we all got up and had breakfast . 
The second day was exactly like the first . 
The rain continued to pour down , and we sat , wrapped up in our mackintoshes , underneath the canvas , and drifted slowly down . 
That I care not for the rain , not I ! was so painfully evident , as expressing the sentiments of each of us , that to sing it seemed unnecessary . 
On one point we were all agreed , and that was that , come what might , we would go through with this job to the bitter end . 
We had come out for a fortnight's enjoyment on the river , and a fortnight's enjoyment on the river we meant to have . 
If it killed us ! well , that would be a sad thing for our friends and relations , but it could not be helped . 
We felt that to give in to the weather in a climate such as ours would be a most disastrous precedent . 
It's only two days more , said Harris , and we are young and strong . 
We may get over it all right , after all . 
At about four o'clock we began to discuss our arrangements for the evening . 
We were a little past Goring then , and we decided to paddle on to Pangbourne , and put up there for the night . 
Another jolly evening ! murmured George . 
We sat and mused on the prospect . 
We should be in at Pangbourne by five . 
We should finish dinner at , say , half past six . 
After that we could walk about the village in the pouring rain until bed time or we could sit in a dimly lit bar parlour and read the almanac . 
Why , the Alhambra would be almost more lively , said Harris , venturing his head outside the cover for a moment and taking a survey of the sky . 
With a little supper at the to follow , I added , half unconsciously . 
Yes it's almost a pity we've made up our minds to stick to this boat , answered Harris and then there was silence for a while . 
We looked at one another , and each one seemed to see his own mean and guilty thoughts reflected in the faces of the others . 
In silence , we dragged out and overhauled the Gladstone . 
We had deceived the boatman at Pangbourne . 
We had not had the face to tell him that we were running away from the rain . 
We had left the boat , and all it contained , in his charge , with instructions that it was to be ready for us at nine the next morning . 
If , we said IF anything unforeseen should happen , preventing our return , we would write to him . 
We attracted a good deal of attention at the Alhambra . 
On our presenting ourselves at the paybox we were gruffly directed to go round to Castle Street , and were informed that we were half an hour behind our time . 
We convinced the man , with some difficulty , that we were NOT the world renowned contortionists from the Himalaya Mountains , and he took our money and let us pass . 
Inside we were a still greater success . 
Our fine bronzed countenances and picturesque clothes were followed round the place with admiring gaze . 
We were the cynosure of every eye . 
It was a proud moment for us all . 
We adjourned soon after the first ballet , and wended our way back to the restaurant , where supper was already awaiting us . 
I must confess to enjoying that supper . 
For about ten days we seemed to have been living , more or less , on nothing but cold meat , cake , and bread and jam . 
Then Harris , who was sitting next the window , drew aside the curtain and looked out upon the street . 
It glistened darkly in the wet , the dim lamps flickered with each gust , the rain splashed steadily into the puddles and trickled down the water spouts into the running gutters . 
A few soaked wayfarers hurried past , crouching beneath their dripping umbrellas , the women holding up their skirts . 
