The Story of Burnt Njal Njal's Saga Originally written in Icelandic , sometime in the th Century A. D. Author unknown . 
This electronic edition was produced , edited , and prepared by Douglas B. Killings , July . 
Document scanning provided by David Reid and John Servilio . 
THE STORY OF BURNT NJAL . 
OF FIDDLE MORD There was a man named Mord whose surname was Fiddle he was the son of Sigvat the Red , and he dwelt at the Vale in the Rangrivervales . 
He was a mighty chief , and a great taker up of suits , and so great a lawyer that no judgments were thought lawful unless he had a hand in them . 
He had an only daughter , named Unna . 
She was a fair , courteous , and gifted woman , and that was thought the best match in all the Rangrivervales . 
He had a brother named Hrut , who dwelt at Hrutstede he was of the same mother as Hauskuld , but his father's name was Heriolf . 
It happened once that Hauskuld bade his friends to a feast , and his brother Hrut was there , and sat next him . 
Hauskuld had a daughter named Hallgerda , who was playing on the floor with some other girls . 
She was fair of face and tall of growth , and her hair was as soft as silk it was so long , too , that it came down to her waist . 
Hauskuld called out to her , Come hither to me , daughter . 
So she went up to him , and he took her by the chin , and kissed her and after that she went away . 
Then Hauskuld said to Hrut , What dost thou think of this maiden ? Is she not fair ? Hrut held his peace . 
Then Hauskuld was wroth , and for a time the brothers saw little of each other . 
Thorgerda was daughter of Thorstein the Red who was Olaf the White's son , Ingialld's son , Helgi's son . 
Ingialld's mother was Thora , daughter of Sigurd Snake i' the eye , who was Ragnar Hairybreek's son . 
And the Deeply wealthy was Thorstein the Red's mother she was daughter of Kettle Flatnose , who was Bjorn Boun's son , Grim's son , Lord of Sogn in Norway . 
HRUT WOOS UNNA It happened once that those brothers , Hauskuld and Hrut , rode to the Althing , and there was much people at it . 
Then Hauskuld said to Hrut , One thing I wish , brother , and that is , that thou wouldst better thy lot and woo thyself a wife . 
The woman's name is Unna , and she is a daughter of Fiddle Mord , one of the wisest of men . 
He is here at the Thing and his daughter too , and thou mayest see her if it pleases thee . 
Now the next day , when men were going to the High Court , they saw some well dressed women standing outside the booths of the men from the Rangrivervales . 
After that they went to the High Court , where Fiddle Mord was laying down the law as was his wont , and after he had done he went home to his booth . 
Then Hauskuld and Hrut rose , and went to Mord's booth . 
They went in and found Mord sitting in the innermost part of the booth , and they bade him Good day . 
He rose to meet them , and took Hauskuld by the hand and made him sit down by his side , and Hrut sat next to Hauskuld . 
Mord answered , I know that thou art a great chief , but thy brother is unknown to me . 
He is a better man than I , answered Hauskuld . 
Thou wilt need to lay down a large sum with him , for she is heir to all I leave behind me , said Mord . 
There is no need , said Hauskuld , to wait long before thou hearest what I give my word lie shall have . 
He shall have Kamness and Hrutstede , up as far as Thrandargil , and a trading ship beside , now on her voyage . 
Then said Hrut , I agree to these terms , and now let us take witness . 
Now both sides ride home from the Thing , and Hauskuld and Hrut ride westward by Hallbjorn's beacon . 
What's to be done now , brother ? said Hrut to Hauskuld , for this seems a hard matter , coming just as I have fixed my bridal day . 
Then said Hrut , My wish is that thou shouldest take meal and timber , and whatever else thou needest out of the lading . 
So Hrut had his horses brought out , and he rode south , while Hauskuld rode home west . 
Hrut came east to the Rangrivervales to Mord , and had a good welcome , and he told Mord all his business , and asked his advice what he should do . 
How much money is this heritage , asked Mord , and Hrut said it would come to a hundred marks , if he got it all . 
Well , said Mord , that is much when set against what I shall leave behind me , and thou shalt go for it , if thou wilt . 
After that they broke their bargain , and Unna was to sit waiting for Hrut three years as his betrothed . 
Then Hauskuld rode home to his house , and a little while after they got a fair wind and sail away to sea . 
They were out three weeks , and the first land they made was Hern , near Bergen , and so sail eastward to the Bay . 
Then Gunnhillda said , I see plainly that he means to claim his heritage , but there is a man named Soti , who has laid his hands on it . 
After that he set off and found them and as soon as they knew that he was Gunnhillda's servant , they gave him good welcome . 
He took them aside and told them his errand , and after that they talked over their plans by themselves . 
Hrut and Auzur went east to the King's Crag , and when they reached the town , their kinsmen and friends went out to meet and welcome them . 
They asked whether the king were in the town , and they told them he was . 
After that he went away . 
The next day Hrut said , Let us go before the king . 
That may well be , answered Auzur . 
So they went , twelve of them together , and all of them friends or kinsmen , and came into the hall where the king sat over his drink . 
Hrut went first and bade the king Good day , and the king , looking steadfastly at the man who was well dressed , asked him his name . 
So he told his name . 
Art thou an Icelander ? said the king . 
Is he a wise man ? asked the king . 
He is both wise and willing , said she . 
Meantime , my mother will take care of thee , but then come to me . 
Then Gunnhillda said to Augmund , Follow them to my house , and treat them well . 
Then Augmund said to Hrut , Now will be proved the truth of all that I said to thee from Gunnhillda . 
Here is her high seat , and in it thou shalt sit , and this seat thou shalt hold , though she comes herself into the hall . 
After that he made them good cheer , and they had sat down but a little while when Gunnhillda came in . 
Hrut wished to jump up and greet her . 
Keep thy seat ! she says , and keep it too all the time thou art my guest . 
You shall have your way , he answers . 
After that they went to sleep , and she locked the door inside . 
So they slept that night , and in the morning fell to drinking again . 
When the half month was over Hrut gave her a hundred ells of household woollen and twelve rough cloaks , and Gunnhillda thanked him for his gifts . 
Then Hrut thanked her and gave her a kiss and went away . 
And next day he went before the king with thirty men after him and bade the king Good day . 
The king said , Now , Hrut , thou wilt wish me to carry out towards thee what I promised . 
So Hrut was made one of the king's body guard , and he asked , Where shall I sit ? My mother shall settle that , said the king . 
Then she got him a seat in the highest room , and he spent the winter with the king in much honour . 
OF HRUT'S CRUISE When the spring came he asked about Soti , and found out he had gone south to Denmark with the inheritance . 
Then Hrut went to Gunnhillda and tells her what Soti had been about . 
Hrut did so and when he came before the king , then he told the king of Soti's doings , and how he had a mind to hold on after him . 
The king said , What strength has my mother handed over to thee ? Two long ships and Wolf the Unwashed to lead the men , says Hrut . 
Well given , says the king . 
Now I will give thee other two ships , and even then thou'lt need all the strength thou'st got . 
After that he went down with Hrut to the ship , and said , fare thee well . 
Then Hrut sailed away south with his crews . 
ATLI ARNVID SON'S SLAYING There was a man named Atli , son of Arnvid , Earl of East Gothland . 
He had kept back the taxes from Hacon Athelstane's foster child , and both father and son had fled away from Jemtland to Gothland . 
After that , Atli held on with his followers out of the Maelar by Stock Sound , and so on towards Denmark , and now he lies out in Oresound . 
He is an outlaw both of the Dane King and of the Swede King . 
Hrut held on south to the Sound , and when he came into it he saw a many ships in the Sound . 
Then Wolf said , What's best to be done now , Icelander ? Hold on our course , said Hrut , for nothing venture , nothing have . 
My ship and Auzur's shall go first , but thou shalt lay thy ship where thou likest . 
Seldom have I had others as a shield before me , says Wolf , and lays his galley side by side with Hrut's ship and so they hold on through the Sound . 
Now those who are in the Sound see that ships are coming up to them , and they tell Atli . 
He answered , Then may be there'll be gain to be got . 
After that men took their stand on board each ship but my ship , says Atli , shall be in the midst of the fleet . 
Meantime Hrut's ships ran on , and as soon as either side could hear the other's hail , Atli stood up and said , Ye fare unwarily . 
Saw ye not that war ships were in the Sound . 
But what's the name of your chief ? Hrut tells his name . 
Whose man art thou , says Atli . 
One of king Harold Grayfell's body guard . 
'Tis long since any love was lost between us , father and son , and your Norway kings . 
Worse luck for thee , says Hrut . 
After that the battle began , and they were slow in boarding Hrut's ship . 
Wolf , he went well forward , and with him it was now cut , now thrust . 
Wolf the Unwashed saw that stroke , and called out , Truth to say , Hrut , thou dealest big blows , but thou'st much to thank Gunnhillda for . 
Something tells me , says Hrut , that thou speakest with a fey' mouth . 
Hrut caught up the sword , and cut his foot from under him . 
After that he dealt him his death blow . 
There they took much goods , and brought away with them two ships which were best , and stayed there only a little while . 
But meantime Soti and his crew had sailed past them , and he held on his course back to Norway , and made the land at Limgard's side . 
Whither away , then ? says Augmund . 
West , to England , says Soti , and never to come back again to Norway while Gunnhillda's rule is in Norway . 
Augmund went away , and goes and finds Gunnhillda , for she was a little way off , at a feast , and Gudred , her son , with her . 
Augmund told Gunnhillda what Soti meant to do , and she begged Gudred to take his life . 
So Gudred set off at once , and came unawares on Soti , and made them lead him up the country , and hang him there . 
Hrut came back towards autumn , and had gotten great store of goods . 
He went at once to the king , and had a hearty welcome . 
He begged them to take whatever they pleased of his goods , and the king took a third . 
Gunnhillda told Hrut how she had got hold of the inheritance , and had Soti slain . 
He thanked her , and gave her half of all he had . 
Oresound , the gut between Denmark and Sweden , at the entrance of the Baltic , commonly called in English , the Sound . 
HRUT SAILS OUT TO ICELAND Hrut stayed with the king that winter in good cheer , but when spring came he grew very silent . 
Wilt thou to Iceland ? she asks . 
Hast thou a wife out there ? she asked and he answers , No. But I am sure that is true , she says and so they ceased talking about the matter . 
Will thine honour be greater there than here ? asks the king . 
No , it will not , said Hrut but every one must win the work that is set before him . 
It is pulling a rope against a strong man , said Gunnhillda , so give him leave to go as best suits him . 
She led him aside to talk alone , and said to him , Here is a gold ring which I will give thee and with that she clasped it round his wrist . 
Many good gifts have I had from thee , said Hrut . 
Hrut laughed when he heard that , and went away after that he came before the king and thanked him and the king spoke kindly to him , and bade him farewell . 
Hrut went straight to his ship , and they had a fair wind all the way until they ran into Borgarfirth . 
As soon as the ship was made fast to the land , Hrut rode west home , but Auzur stayed by the ship to unload her and lay her up . 
Hrut rode straight to Hauskuldstede , and Hauskuld gave him a hearty welcome , and Hrut told him all about his travels . 
Then Hrut said , The reward is less worth than it ought to be , but I will give thee as much meal as thou needst for thy household next winter . 
Then they drew the ship on land on rollers , and made her snug in her shed , but all the wares on board her they carried away into the Dales westward . 
Hrut stayed at home at Hrutstede till winter was six weeks off , and then the brothers made ready and Auzur with them , to ride to Hrut's wedding . 
Sixty men ride with them , and they rode east till they came to Rangriver plains . 
So they drank out the feast and it went off well . 
Mord pays down his daughter's portion , and she rides west with her husband and his train . 
So they ride till they reach home . 
I will ride to the Thing , she said , to meet my father . 
So it sball be , said he , and I will ride to the Thing along with thee . 
Well and good , she says . 
After that Hrut rode from home west to the Firths , got in all his money , and laid it out anew , and rode home again . 
When he came home he busked him to ride to the Thing , and made all his neighbours ride with him . 
His brother Hauskuld rode among the rest . 
Then Hrut said to his wife , If thou hast as much mind now to go to the Thing as thou saidst a while ago , busk thyself and ride along with me . 
She was not slow in getting herself ready , and then they all rode to the Thing . 
Hast thou anything on thy mind ? She began to weep , and answered nothing . 
Then he said to her again . 
Well ! said Mord , I'll soon get to the bottom of this . 
But she brought no charge against him . 
Then Hrut made them ask his neighbours and household how he treated her , and all bore him good witness , saying that she did just as she pleased in the house . 
Then Mord said , Home thou shalt go , and be content with thy lot for all the witness goes better for him than for thee . 
Hrut had again a journey to make west to the Firths , and gave out that he would not ride to the Althing , but Unna his wife said little about it . 
So Hrut went away west to the Firths . 
UNNA SEPARATES FROM HRUT Now the time for the Thing was coming on . 
Well ! says she , I spoke to thee because I have better right to ask this from thee than from any one else . 
He answered , I will make a bargain with thee thou must promise to ride back west with me , and to have no underhand dealings against Hrut or myself . 
So she promised that , and then they rode to the Thing . 
Her father Mord was at the Thing , and was very glad to see her , and asked her to stay in his booth while the Thing lasted , and she did so . 
She herself was ashamed to speak out . 
Thou didst right to tell me all this , said Mord . 
, and now I will give thee a piece of advice , which will stand thee in good stead , if thou canst carry it out to the letter . 
After that ride away , and ride over Laxriverdale Heath , and so on over Holtbeacon Heath for they will look for thee by way of Hrutfirth . 
And so ride on till thou comest to me then I will see after the matter . 
But into his hands thou shalt never come more . 
Now she rides home from the Thing , and Hrut had come back before her , and made her hearty welcome . 
She answered him kindly , and was blithe and forbearing towards him . 
So they lived happily together that half year but when spring came she fell sick , and kept her bed . 
Hrut set off west to the Firths , and bade them tend her well before he went . 
The country folk looked for her , but could not find her . 
Mord made his daughter welcome , and asked her if she had followed his advice and she says , I have not broken one tittle of it . 
Then she went to the Hill of Laws , and declared herself separated from Hrut and men thought this strange news . 
Unna went home with her father , and never went west from that day forward . 
Next summer he rode to the Thing , with his brother Hauskuld , and they had a great fellowing . 
But I shall have something to say against it for the goods which belong to me are not yet in thy bands . 
Then Mord held his peace , and took counsel with his friends about going to fight on the island , and Jorund the priest gave him an answer . 
There is no need for thee to come to ask us for counsel in this matter , for thou knowest if thou fightest with Hrut thou wilt lose both life and goods . 
He has a good cause , and is besides mighty in himself and one of the boldest of men . 
There had been much rain that day , and men got wet , so long fires were made down the length of the hall . 
They were great chatterboxes , for they were too young to know better . 
So one of them said , Now I will be Mord , and summon thee to lose thy wife because thou hast not been a good husband to her . 
Then the other answered , I will be Hrut , and I call on thee to give up all claim to thy goods , if thou darest not to fight with me . 
This they said several times , and all the household burst out laughing . 
Then Hauskuld got wroth , and struck the boy who called himself Mord with a switch , and the blow fell on his face , and grazed the skin . 
Get out with thee , said Hauskuld to the boy , and make no game of us but Hrut said , Come hitherto me , and the boy did so . 
Then Hrut drew a ring from his finger and gave it to him , and said , Go away , and try no man's temper henceforth . 
Then the boy went away saying , Thy manliness I will bear in mind all my life . 
From this matter Hrut got great praise , and after that they went home and that was the end of Mord's and Hrut's quarrel , . 
She was fair haired , and had so much of it that she could hide herself in it but she was layish and hard hearted . 
by stock he was a strong man , well skilled in arms , and had slain many men , and made no atonement in money for one of them . 
It was said , too , that his rearing had not bettered Hallgerda's temper . 
There was a man named Thorwald he was Oswif's son , and dwelt out on Middlefells strand , under the Fell . 
He was rich and well to do , and owned the islands called Bearisles , which lie out in Broadfirth , whence he got meal and stock fish . 
This Thorwald was a strong and courteous man , though somewhat hasty in temper . 
Well , said Oswif , wilt thou ask for Hallgerda Longcoat , Hauskuld's daughter . 
Yes ! I will ask for her , said Thorwald . 
For all that I will try my luck there , said Thorwald , so it's no good trying to hinder me . 
Ay ! said Oswif , and the risk is all thine own . 
After that they set off on a wooing journey to Hauskuldstede , and had a hearty welcome . 
My daughter has a hard temper , but as to her looks and breeding you can both see for yourselves . 
Lay down the terms of the match , answered Thorwald , for I will not let her temper stand in the way of our bargain . 
After that Thorwald betrothed himself to Hallgerda , and rode away home when the matter was settled . 
That is , he came from what we call the Western Isles or Hebrides . 
Besides , I do not think this match so good a one as thou hast always promised me . 
So she went on , and let them know in every way that she thought she was thrown away . 
The pride of all you kinsfolk is great , she said , and so it is not wonderful if I have some of it . 
With that she went away , and found her foster father Thiostolf , and told him what was in store for her , and was very heavy hearted . 
After that they spoke no more of the matter , and Hauskuld made ready the bridal feast , and rode off to ask men to it . 
So he came to Hrutstede and called Hrut out to speak with him . 
Of course I think so , said Hauskuld , and rode off home . 
Oswif and Thorwald also asked men to come , so that no fewer than one hundred guests were asked . 
There was a man named Swan , who dwelt in Bearfirth , which lies north from Steingrimsfirth . 
This Swan was a great wizard , and he was Hallgerda's mother's brother . 
Now men come to the feast , and Hallgerda sat upon the cross bench , and she was a very merry bride . 
Thiostolf was always talking to her , though he sometimes found time to speak to Swan , and men thought their talking strange . 
The feast went off well , and Hauskuld paid down Hallgerda's portion with the greatest readiness . 
Oswif turned to his son and said , Art thou pleased with thy match ? and how went it when ye talked together . 
Well , said he , she showed all kindness to me . 
Thou mightst see that by the way she laughs at every word I say . 
I don't think her laughter so hearty as thou dost , answered Oswif , but this will be put to the proof by and by . 
So they ride on till they come home , and at night she took her seat by her husband's side , and made room for Thiostolf next herself on the inside . 
Thiostolf and Thorwald had little to do with each other , and few words were thrown away between them that winter , and so time went on . 
Well , said Thorwald , I did not lay in less for the house this year than I laid in before , and then it used to last till summer . 
What care I , said Hallgerda , if thou and thy father have made your money by starving yourselves . 
Then Thorwald got angry and gave her a blow on the face and drew blood , and went away and called his men and ran the skiff down to the shore . 
Then six of them jumped into her and rowed out to the Bear isles , and began to load her with meal and fish . 
Meantime it is said that Hallgerda sat out of doors heavy at heart . 
Because I knew nothing about it , said Thiostolf , but I will avenge it . 
Then he went away down to the shore and ran out a six oared boat , and held in his hand a great axe that he had with a haft overlaid with iron . 
Thinkst thou thou canst do it better , said Thorwald . 
Then Thorwald snatched up a fishing knife that lay by him , and made a stab at Thiostolf he had lifted his axe to his shoulder and dashed it down . 
It came on Thorwald's arm and crushed the wrist , but down fell the knife . 
Then Thiostolf lifted up his axe a second time and gave Thorwald a blow on the head , and he fell dead on the spot . 
THIOSTOLF'S FLIGHT While this was going on , Thorwald's men came down with their load , but Thiostolf was not slow in his plans . 
Down too sank Thorwald's body , so that his men could not see what had been done to him , but they knew well enough that he was dead . 
Thiostolf rowed away up the firth , but they shouted after him wishing him ill luck . 
Hallgerda stood out of doors , and said , Thine axe is bloody what hast thou done ? I have done now what will cause thee to be wedded a second time . 
Thou tellest me then that Thorwald is dead , she said . 
So it is , said he , and now look out for my safety . 
So I will , she said I will send thee north to Bearfirth , to Swanshol , and Swan , my kinsman , will receive thee with open arms . 
He is so mighty a man that no one will seek thee thither . 
Now , the story goes back to Hallgerda , and how she behaved . 
She called on Liot the Black , her kinsman , to go with her , and bade him saddle their horses , for she said , I will ride home to my father . 
Now she rides home to her father and he received her well , for as yet he had not heard the news . 
But Hrut said to Hallgerda , Why did not Thorwald come with thee ? and she answered , He is dead . 
Then said Hauskuld , That was Thiostolf's doing . 
It was , she said . 
Ah ! said Hauskuld , Hrut was not far wrong when he told me that this bargain would draw mickle misfortune after it . 
But there's no good in troubling one's self about a thing that's done and gone . 
Now , the story must go back to Thorwald's mates , how there they are , and how they begged the loan of a boat to get to the mainland . 
So a boat was lent them at once , and they rowed up the firth to Reykianess , and found Oswif , and told him these tidings . 
He said , Ill luck is the end of ill redes , and now I see how it has all gone . 
Hallgerda must have sent Thiostolf to Bearfirth , but she herself must have ridden home to her father . 
Let us now gather folk and follow him up thither north . 
So they did that , and went about asking for help , and got together many men . 
And then they all rode off to Steingrims river , and so on to Liotriverdale and Selriverdale , till they came to Bearfirth . 
Now Swan began to speak , and gasped much . 
Now Oswif's fetches are seeking us out . 
Then up sprung Thiostolf , but Swan said , Go thou out with me , there won't be need of much . 
Then many still egged the others on to look after the chase once more and so they did , and at once the same wonders befell them , and so they fared thrice . 
Then Oswif said , Though the course be not good , let us still turn back . 
So they rode thence to the Broadfirth dales , and there is nothing to be told about them till they came to Hauskuldstede , and Hrut was there before them . 
Oswif called out Hauskuld and Hrut , and they both went out and bade him good day . 
After that they began to talk . 
Hauskuld asked Oswif whence he came . 
He said he had set out to search for Thiostolf , but couldn't find him . 
Hauskuld said he must have gone north to Swanshol , and thither it is not every man's lot to go to find him . 
Well , says Oswif , I am come hither for this , to ask atonement for my son from thee . 
Hauskuld answered , I did not slay thy son , nor did I plot his death still it may be forgiven thee to look for atonement somewhere . 
hast behaved so well about it that I trust thee thoroughly to make it . 
Hauskuld did so , and then Hrut said to Oswif , I will give thee a good cloak which I brought with me from foreign lands . 
He thanked him for his gift , and went home well pleased at the way in which things had gone . 
Hallgerda begged Hauskuld to let her come back home to him , and he gave her leave , and for a long time there was much talk about Thorwald's slaying . 
As for Hallgerda's goods they went on growing till they were worth a great sum . 
GLUM'S WOOING Now three brothers are named in the story . 
One was called Thorarin , the second Ragi , and the third Glum . 
They were the sons of Olof the Halt , and were men of much worth and of great wealth in goods . 
Thorarin's surname was Ragi's brother he had the Speakership of the Law after Rafn Heing's son . 
He was a very wise man , and lived at Varmalek , and he and Glum kept house together . 
Glum had been long abroad he was a tall , strong , handsome man . 
Ragi their brother was a great manslayer . 
Those brothers owned in the south Engey and Laugarness . 
What hast thou then in thy mind ? Wilt thou woo thee a wife ? That I will , says he , if I could only get myself well matched . 
Say then the name of her thou wishest to have , says Thorarin . 
Glum answered , If thou must know , her name is Hallgerda , and she is Hauskuld's daughter away west in the dales . 
Well , says Thorarin , 'tis not with thee as the saw says , be warned by another's woe' for she was wedded to a man , and she plotted his death . 
Glum said , Maybe such ill luck will not befall her a second time , and sure I am she will not plot my death . 
But now , if thou wilt show me any honour , ride along with me to woo her . 
Thorarin said , There's no good striving against it , for what must be is sure to happen . 
Glum often talked the matter over with Thorarin , but he put it off a long time . 
At last it came about that they gathered men together and rode off ten in company , west to the dales , and came to Hauskuldstede . 
Hauskuld gave them a hearty welcome , and they stayed there that night . 
But early next morning , Hauskuld sends for Hrut , and he came thither at once and Hauskuld was out of doors when he rode into the town . 
Then Hauskuld told Hrut what men had come thither . 
What may it be they want ? asked Hrut . 
As yet , says Hauskuld , they have not let out to me that they have any business . 
Still , says Hrut , their business must be with thee . 
They will ask the hand of thy daughter , Hallgerda . 
If they do , what answer wilt thou make ? What dost thou advise me to say ? says Hauskuld . 
Thou shalt answer well , says Hrut but still make a clean breast of all the good and all the ill thou knowest of the woman . 
But while the brothers were talking thus , out came the guests . 
Hauskuld greeted them well , and Hrut bade both Thorarin and his brothers good morning . 
Thou must know that he is a man of worth . 
Of course , it shall be in Glum's power to give him leave but he will not if he takes my advice . 
And now this match shall not be fulfilled , as the other was , without Hallgerda's knowledge . 
And all this shall be without craft or guile . 
Then Thorarin said , Now , as always , it will prove best if thy advice be taken . 
Then they sent for Hallgerda , and she came thither , and two women with her . 
She sat down between Hrut and her father , and she greeted them all with kind words , and spoke well and boldly , and asked what was the news . 
After that she ceased speaking . 
Then Glum said , There has been some talk between thy father and my brother Thorarin and myself about a bargain . 
Hallgerda said , I know well that you are men of worth and might , ye brothers . 
But so far as I now see of thee , I think I might love thee well if we can but hit it off as to temper . 
So Glum himself told her all about the bargain , and left nothing out , and then he asked Hauskuld and Hrut whether he had repeated it right . 
Then Hrut said , Methinks it were best that Hauskuld and I should name witnesses , and that Hallgerda should betroth herself , if the Lawman thinks that right and lawful . 
Right and lawful it is , says Thorarin . 
After that Hallgerda's goods were valued , and Glum was to lay down as much against them , and they were to go shares , half and half , in the whole . 
Then Glum bound himself to Hallgerda as his betrothed , and they rode away home south but Hauskuld was to keep the wedding feast at his house . 
And now all is quiet till men ride to the wedding . 
GLUM'S WEDDING Those brothers gathered together a great company , and they were all picked men . 
They rode west to the dales and came to Hauskuldstede , and there they found a great gathering to meet them . 
Hauskuld and Hrut , and their friends , filled one bench , and the bridegroom the other . 
Hallgerda sat upon the cross bench on the dais , and behaved well . 
Thiostolf went about with his axe raised in air , and no one seemed to know that he was there , and so the wedding went off well . 
But when the feast was over , Hallgerda went away south with Glum and his brothers . 
So when they came south to Varmalek , Thorarin asked Hallgerda if she would undertake the housekeeping . 
No , I will not , she said . 
Hallgerda kept her temper down that winter , and they liked her well enough . 
Glum was willing enough to do that . 
So Thorarin went down to the south of that district , and Glum and his wife stayed behind there , and lived in the house at Varmalek . 
Now Hallgerda got a household about her she was prodigal in giving , and grasping in getting . 
In the summer she gave birth to a girl . 
So the maiden was sprinkled with water , and had this name given her , and there she grew up , and got like her mother in looks and feature . 
Glum and Hallgerda agreed well together , and so it went on for a while . 
But this all knew that he was never seen again either alive or dead . 
So when Hallgerda heard that , she thought she had a great loss in her mother's brother . 
Glum begged Thorarin to change lands with him , but he said he would not but , said he , if I outlive you , I mean to have Varmalek to myself . 
When Glum told this to Hallgerda , she said , Thorarin has indeed a right to expect this from us . 
THIOSTOLF GOES TO GLUM'S HOUSE Thiostolf had beaten one of Hauskuld's house carles , so he drove him away . 
He took his horse and weapons , and said to Hauskuld , Now , I will go away and never come back . 
All will be glad at that , says Hauskuld . 
Thiostolf rode till he came to Varmalek , and there he got a hearty welcome from Hallgerda , and not a bad one from Glum . 
He told Hallgerda how her father had driven him away , and begged her to give him her help and countenance . 
She answered him by telling him she could say nothing about his staying there before she had seen Glum about it . 
Does it go well between you ? he says . 
Yes , she says , our love runs smooth enough . 
She goes then to Thiostolf and tells him , and he answered , Now , thou art still good , as I had hoped . 
Glum answered him well and kindly , but still kept on in his own way . 
GLUM'S SHEEP HUNT Now once on a time when autumn came , it happened that men had hard work to get their flocks home , and many of Glum's wethers were missing . 
Then Glum said to Thiostolf , Go thou up on the fell with my house carles and see if ye cannot find out anything about the sheep . 
'Tis no business of mine , says Thiostolf , to hunt up sheep , and this one thing is quite enough to hinder it . 
I won't walk in thy thralls' footsteps . 
But go thyself , and then I'll go with thee . 
About this they had many words . 
The weather was good , and Hallgerda was sitting out of doors . 
Glum went up to her and said , Now Thiostolf and I have had a quarrel , and we shall not live much longer together . 
And so he told her all that they had been talking about . 
Then Hallgerda spoke up for Thiostolf , and they had many words about him . 
At last Glum gave her a blow with his hand , and said , I will strive no longer with thee , and with that he went away . 
Now she loved him much , and could not calm herself , but wept out loud . 
Thiostolf went up to her and said , This is sorry sport for thee , and so it must not be often again . 
Nay , she said , but thou shalt not avenge this , nor meddle at all whatever passes between Glum and me . 
He went off with a spiteful grin . 
GLUM'S SLAYING Now Glum called men to follow him , and Thiostolf got ready and went with them . 
So they went up South Reykiardale and then up along by Baugagil and so south to Crossfell . 
But some of his band he sent to the Sulafells , and they all found very many sheep . 
Some of them , too , went by way of Scoradale , and it came about at last that those twain , Glum and Thiostolf , were left alone together . 
Then each began to scold the other , and Thiostolf said at last that Glum had no strength save to tumble about in Hallgerda's arms . 
Then Glum said , A man's foes are those of his own house . 
Thiostolf cut at him at once with his axe , and smote him on the shoulder , and the stroke hewed asunder the shoulderbone and collarbone , and the wound bled inwards . 
Glum grasped at Thiostolf with his left hand so fast , that he fell but Glum could not hold him , for death came over him . 
Then Thiostolf covered his body with stones , and took off his gold ring . 
Then he went straight to Varmalek . 
Hallgerda was sitting out of doors , and saw that his axe was bloody . 
He said , I know not what thou wilt think of it , but I tell thee Glum is slain . 
That must be thy deed , she says . 
So it is , he says . 
She laughed and said , Thou dost not stand for nothing in this sport . 
What thinkest thou is best to be done now ? he asked . 
Go to Hrut , my father's brother , she said , and let him see about thee . 
I do not know , says Thiostolf , whether this is good advice but still I will take thy counsel in this matter . 
So he took his horse , and rode west to Hrutstede that night . 
He binds his horse at the back of the house , and then goes round to the door , and gives a great knock . 
After that he walks round the house , north about . 
It happened that Hrut was awake . 
He sprang up at once , and put on his jerkin and pulled on his shoes . 
Then he took up his sword , and wrapped a cloak about his left arm , up as far as the elbow . 
Men woke up just as he went out there he saw a tall stout man at the back of the house , and knew it was Thiostolf . 
Hrut asked him what news ? I tell thee Glum is slain . 
Who did the deed ? says Hrut . 
I slew him , says Thiostolf . 
Why rodest thou hither ? says Hrut . 
Hallgerda sent me to thee , says Thiostolf . 
Then she has no hand in this deed , says Hrut , and drew his sword . 
Thiostolf saw that , and would not be behind hand , so he cuts at Hrut at once . 
After that he smote him on the head , and dealt him his death blow . 
Thiostolf fell down on his back at full length , and then out came Hrut's men , and saw the tokens of the deed . 
Hrut made them take Thiostolf away , and throw stones over his body , and then he went to find Hauskuld , and told him of Glum's slaying , and also of Thiostolf's . 
He thought it harm that Glum was dead and gone , but thanked him for killing Thiostolf . 
Then Thorarin held his peace , and thought the matter had taken a bad turn . 
But Hrut said , Let us make his journey good he has indeed had a heavy loss , and if we do that we shall be well spoken of . 
So let us give him gifts , and then he will be our friend ever afterwards . 
So the end of it was , that those brothers gave him gifts , and he rode back south . 
He and Hallgerda changed homesteads in the spring , and she went south to Laugarness and he to Varmalek . 
And now Thorarin is out of the story . 
FIDDLE MORD'S DEATH Now it must be told how Fiddle Mord took a sickness and breathed his last and that was thought great scathe . 
His daughter Unna took all the goods he left behind him . 
She was then still unmarried the second time . 
She was very layish , and unthrifty of her property so that her goods and ready money wasted away , and at last she had scarce anything left but land and stock . 
GUNNAR COMES INTO THE STORY There was a man whose name was Gunnar . 
He was one of Unna's kinsmen , and his mother's name was Rannveig . 
Gunnar's father was named Hamond . 
Gunnar Hamond's son dwelt at Lithend , in the Fleetlithe . 
He was a tall man in growth , and a strong man best skilled in arms of all men . 
He was the best shot with the bow of all men , and never missed his mark . 
He could leap more than his own height , with all his war gear , and as far backwards as forwards . 
He was handsome of feature , and fair skinned . 
His nose was straight , and a little turned up at the end . 
He was blue eyed and bright eyed , and ruddy cheeked . 
His hair thick , and of good hue , and hanging down in comely curls . 
The most courteous of men was he , of sturdy frame and strong will , bountiful and gentle , a fast friend , but hard to please when making them . 
He was wealthy in goods . 
His brother's name was Kolskegg he was a tall strong man , a noble fellow , and undaunted in everything . 
Another brother's name was Hjort he was then in his childhood . 
Orm Skogarnef was a base born brother of Gunnar's he does not come into this story . 
Arnguda was the name of Gunnar's sister . 
Hroar , the priest at Tongue , had her to wife . 
She was the daughter of Sigfuss , the son of Sighvat the Red he was slain at Sandhol Ferry . 
He was the son of Gunnar Baugsson , after whom Gunnar's holt is called . 
Hamond's mother's name was Hrafnhilda . 
She was the daughter of Storolf Heing's son . 
Storolf was brother to Hrafn the Speaker of the Law , the son of Storolf was Orin the Strong . 
He was the son of Uni the Unborn , Gardar's son who found Iceland . 
Arnguda's son was Hamond the Halt , who dwelt at Hamondstede . 
OF NJAL AND HIS CHILDREN There was a man whose name was Njal . 
He was the son of Thorgeir Gelling , the son of Thorolf . 
Njal's mother's name was Asgerda . 
Njal dwelt at Bergthorsknoll in the land isles he had another homestead on Thorolfsfell . 
Njal was wealthy in goods , and handsome of face no beard grew on his chin . 
He was so great a lawyer , that his match was not to be found . 
Wise too he was , and foreknowing and foresighted . 
Of good counsel , and ready to give it , and all that he advised men was sure to be the best for them to do . 
Gentle and generous , he unravelled every man's knotty points who came to see him about them . 
Bergthora was his wife's name she was Skarphedinn's daughter , a very high spirited , brave hearted woman , but somewhat hard tempered . 
They had six children , three daughters and three sons , and they all come afterwards into this story . 
ENDNOTES She was the daughter of Lord Ar the Silent . 
She had come out hither to Iceland from Norway , and taken land to the west of Markfleet , between Auldastone and Selialandsmull . 
Her son was Holt Thorir , the father of Thorleif Crow , from whom the Wood dwellers are sprung , and of Thorgrim the Tall , and Skorargeir . 
This means that Njal was one of those gifted beings who , according to the firm belief of that age , had a more than human insight into things about to happen . 
It answers very nearly to the Scottish second sight . 
UNNA GOES TO SEE GUNNAR Now it must be told how Unna had lost all her ready money . 
She made her way to Lithend , and Gunnar greeted his kinswoman well . 
She stayed there that night , and the next morning they sat out of doors and talked . 
The end of their talk was , that she told him how heavily she was pressed for money . 
This is a bad business , he said . 
What help wilt thou give me out of my distress ? she asked . 
He answered , Take as much money as thou needest from what I have out at interest . 
Nay , she said , I will not waste thy goods . 
What then dost thou wish ? I wish thee to get back my goods out of Hrut's hands , she answered . 
And now there is none of my kinsmen to take this suit up if thou hast not daring enough . 
I have courage enough , he replied , to get these goods back but I do not know how to take the suit up . 
Well ! she answered , go and see Njal of Bergthorsknoll , he will know how to give thee advice . 
Besides , he is a great friend of thine . 
'Tis like enough he will give me good advice , as he gives it to every one else , says Gunnar . 
So the end of their talk was , that Gunnar undertook her cause , and gave her the money she needed for her housekeeping , and after that she went home . 
Now Gunnar rides to see Njal , and he made him welcome , and they began to talk at once . 
Then Gunnar said , I am come to seek a bit of good advice from thee . 
Njal replied , Many of my friends are worthy of this , but still I think I would take more pains for none than for thee . 
Gunnar said , I wish to let thee know that I have undertaken to get Unna's goods back from Hrut . 
Never fear I will break none of them , said Gunnar . 
Then Njal held his peace for a little while , and after that he spoke as follows . 
NJAL'S ADVICE I have thought over the suit , and it will do so . 
Thou shalt ride from home with two men at thy back . 
Over all thou shalt have a great rough cloak , and under that , a russet kirtle of cheap stuff , and under all , thy good clothes . 
Thou must take a small axe in thy hand , and each of you must have two horses , one fat , the other lean . 
This Hedinn is ill tempered and a chatterer a fellow who thinks he alone knows everything . 
Very often he snatches back his wares , and flies at men if everything is not done as he wishes . 
So thou shalt ride to Northwaterdale , and to Hrutfirth , and Laxriverdale , till thou comest to Hauskuldstede . 
There thou must stay a night , and sit in the lowest place , and hang thy head down . 
Hauskuld will tell them all not to meddle nor make with Huckster Hedinn , saying he is a rude unfriendly fellow . 
Next morning thou must be off early and go to the farm nearest Hrutstede . 
There thou must offer thy goods for sale , praising up all that is worst , and tinkering up the faults . 
The master of the house will pry about and find out the faults . 
Thou must snatch the wares away from him , and speak ill to him . 
He will say , 'twas not to be hoped that thou wouldst behave well to him , when thou behavest ill to every one else . 
Then thou shalt fly at him , though it is not thy wont , but mind and spare thy strength , that thou mayest not be found out . 
Then a man will be sent to Hrutstede to tell Hrut he had best come and part you . 
He will come at once and ask thee to his house , and thou must accept his offer . 
Thou shalt greet Hrut and he will answer well . 
A place will be given thee on the lower bench over against Hrut's high seat . 
He will ask if thou art from the North , and thou shalt answer that thou art a man of Eyjafirth . 
He will go on to ask if there are very many famous men there . 
Shabby fellows enough and to spare , thou must answer . 
Dost thou know Reykiardale and the parts about ? he will ask . 
To which thou must answer , I know all Iceland by heart . 
Are there any stout champions left in Reykiardale ? he will ask . 
Thieves and scoundrels , thou shalt answer . 
Then Hrut will smile and think it sport to listen . 
You two will go on to talk of the men in the Eastfirth Quarter , and thou must always find something to say against them . 
At last your talk will come Rangrivervale , and then thou must say , there is small choice of men left in those parts since Fiddle Mord died . 
At the same time sing some stave to please Hrut , for I know thou art a skald . 
Thou challengedst him to single combat but he was old , and so his friends advised him not to fight with thee , and then they let the suit fall to the ground . 
True enough , Hrut will say . 
I said so , and that passed for law among foolish men but the suit might have been taken up again at another Thing if he had the heart . 
I know all that , thou must say . 
Then he will ask , Dost thou know anything about law ? Up in the North I am thought to know something about it , thou shalt say . 
But still I should like thee to tell me how this suit should be taken up . 
What suit dost thou mean ? he will ask . 
A suit , thou must answer , which does not concern me . 
I want to know how a man must set to work who wishes to get back Unna's dower . 
Then Hrut will say , In this suit I must be summoned so that I can hear the summons , or I must be summoned here in my lawful house . 
Recite the summons , then , thou must say , 'and I will say it after thee . 
Then Hrut will summon himself and mind and pay great heed to every word he says . 
After that Hrut will bid thee repeat the summons , and thou must do so , and say it all wrong , so that no more than every other word is right . 
Then Hrut will smile and not mistrust thee , but say that scarce a word is right . 
He will give thee leave , and summon himself in the suit , and thou shalt summon after him there and then , and this time say every word right . 
When it is done , ask Hrut if that were rightly summoned , and he will answer , There is no flaw to be found in it . 
You must ride up into the hills away from the home pastures and stay there three nights , for about so long will they seek you . 
After that ride home south , riding always by night and resting by day . 
As for us , we will then ride this summer to the Thing , and help thee in thy suit . 
So Gunnar thanked Njal , and first of all rode home . 
But his companions said it was Huckster Hedinn . 
Then the others said a worse was not to be looked for behind , when such a man as he went before . 
Hedinn at once made as though he would have set upon them , but yet each went their way . 
There he offered his wares for sale , and Hedinn fell at once upon the farmer . 
This was told to Hrut , and he sent for Hedinn , and Hedinn went at once to see Hrut , and had a good welcome . 
Still I trow that Fiddle Mord , Tried his hand in fight of yore Sure was never gold bestower , Such a man for might and wit . 
Then Hrut said , Thou art a skald , Hedinn . 
tearing , Trickfull he and trustful thou . 
Then the men , the buckler bearers , Begged the mighty gold begetter , Sharp sword oft of old he reddened , Not to stand in strife with thee . 
So they went on , till Hrut , in answer told him how the suit must be taken up , and recited the summons . 
Hedinn repeated it all wrong , and Hrut burst out laughing , and had no mistrust . 
Then he said , Hrut must summon once more , and Hrut did so . 
Hauskuld wakes up that night at Hauskuldstede , and roused all his household . 
I will tell you my dream , he said . 
Now I wish to ask if any of you saw aught about yon tall man . 
Hauskuld said , This beast is no man's fetch , but Gunnar's of Lithend , and now methinks I see all about it . 
Up ! let us ride to Hrutstede , And they did so . 
A broader man across the back , it will be , I fear , says Hauskuld , I guess here must have been Gunnar of Lithend . 
Then there has been a pretty trial of cunning , says Hrut . 
What has happened ? says Hauskuld . 
Now they look for Hedinn , but he is already off and away after that they gathered folk , and looked for them three days , but could not find them . 
Gunnar rode south from the fell to Hawkdale and so east of Skard , and north to Holtbeaconheath , and so on until he got home . 
ENDNOTES Lord of rings , a periphrasis for a chief , that is , Mord . 
Earth's offspring , a periphrasis for woman , that is , Unna . 
GUNNAR AND HRUT STRIVE AT THE THING . 
Gunnar rode to the Althing , and Hrut and Hauskuld rode thither too with a very great company . 
After that he took his oath , and declared his case . 
After that he brought forward his witnesses of the summons , along with his witnesses that the suit had been handed over to him . 
All this time Njal was not at the court . 
Now Gunnar pursued his suit till he called on the defendant to reply . 
The first , that which was taken before the marriage bed , the second , before the man's door , the third , at the Hill of Laws . 
By this time Njal was come to the court and said the suit and pleading might still be kept alive if they chose to strive in that way . 
Hear it we can , says Hrut . 
But if thou wilt not fight with me , then pay up all the money this very day . 
All that bear my words bear witness , Warriors grasping Woden's guard , Unless the wealthy wight down payeth Dower of wife with flowing veil . 
After that Gunnar went away from the court with all his followers . 
Hrut and Hauskuld went home too , and the suit was never pursued nor defended from that day forth . 
Hrut said , as soon as he got inside the booth , This has never happened to me before , that any man has offered me combat and I have shunned it . 
After that the brothers asked the householders of their own country what they would lay down , and they one and all said they would lay down as much as Hrut wished . 
Let us go then , says Hauskuld , to Gunnar's booth , and pay down the money out of hand . 
That was told to Gunnar , and he went out into the doorway of the booth , and Hauskuld said , Now it is thine to take the money . 
Gunnar said , Pay it down , then , for I am ready to take it . 
So they paid down the money truly out of hand , and then Hauskuld said , Enjoy it now , as thou hast gotten it . 
Hrut answered , III will be thy meed for this . 
Be that as it may , says Gunnar . 
And after all it is most likely that he will turn to our stock to seek for friends . 
After that they left off speaking of the matter . 
Gunnar showed Njal the money , and he said , The suit has gone off well . 
Ay , says Gunnar , but it was all thy doing . 
Now men rode home from the Thing , and Gunnar got very great honour from the suit . 
She said , so it should be . 
UNNA'S SECOND WEDDING There was a man named Valgard , he kept house at Hof by Rangriver , he was the son of Jorund the Priest , and his brother was Wolf Aurpriest . 
Those brothers , Wolf Aurpriest , and Valgard the Guileful , set off to woo Unna , and she gave herself away to Valgard without the advice of any of her kinsfolk . 
But Gunnar and Njal , and many others thought ill of that , for he was a cross grained man and had few friends . 
They begot between them a son , whose name was Mord , and he is long in this story . 
When he was grown to man's estate , he worked ill to his kinsfolk but worst of all to Gunnar . 
He was a crafty man in his temper , but spiteful in his counsels . 
Now we will name Njal's sons . 
Skarphedinn was the eldest of them . 
Still he was the most soldierlike of men . 
Grim was the name of Njal's second son . 
He was fair of face and wore his hair long . 
His hair was dark , and he was comelier to look on than Skarphedinn . 
Helgi was the name of Njal's third son . 
He too was fair of face and had fine hair . 
He was a strong man and well skilled in arms . 
He was a man of sense and knew well how to behave . 
They were all unwedded at that time , Njal's sons . 
Hauskuld was the fourth of Njal's sons . 
His mother was Rodny , and she was Hauskuld's daughter , the sister of Ingialld of the Springs . 
Njal asked Skarphedinn one day if he would take to himself a wife . 
He bade his father settle the matter . 
Then Njal asked for his hand Thorhilda , the daughter of Ranvir of Thorolfsfell , and that was why they had another homestead there after that . 
Skarphedinn got Thorhilda , but he stayed still with his father to the end . 
Grim wooed Astrid of Deepback she was a widow and very wealthy . 
Grim got her to wife , and yet lived on with Njal . 
The mother of Harold Hilditann , was Aud the daughter of Ivar Widefathom , the son of Halfdan the Clever . 
But from Valgard is sprung Kolbein the Young . 
OF ASGRIM AND HIS CHILDREN There was a man named Asgrim . 
The brother of Asgrim Ellidagrim's son was Sigfus . 
Asgrim had two sons , and each of them was named Thorhall . 
They were both hopeful men . 
Grim was the name of another of Asgrim's sons , and Thorhalla was his daughter's name . 
She was the fairest of women , and well behaved . 
Njal came to talk with his son Helgi , and said , I have thought of a match for thee , if thou wilt follow my advice . 
That I will surely , says he , for I know that thou both meanest me well , and canst do well for me but whither hast thou turned thine eyes . 
We will go and woo Asgrim Ellidagrim's son's daughter , for that is the best choice we can make . 
ENDNOTES Ellidagrim was Asgrim's son , Aundot the Crow's son . 
His mother's name was Jorunn , and she was the daughter of Teit , the son of Kettlebjorn the Old of Mossfell . 
The mother of Teit was Helga , daughter of Thord Skeggi's son , Hrapp's son , Bjorn's son the Roughfooted , Grim's son , the Lord of Sogn in Norway . 
The mother of Jorunn was Olof Harvest heal , daughter of Bodvar , Viking Kari's son . 
His daughter was Thorgerda , mother of Sigfus , the father of Saemund the Learned . 
HELGI NJAL'S SON'S WOOING A little after they rode out across Thurso water , and fared till they came into Tongue . 
Asgrim was at home , and gave them a hearty welcome and they were there that night . 
Next morning they began to talk , and then Njal raised the question of the wooing , and asked for Thorhalla for his son Helgi's hand . 
Asgrim answered that well , and said there were no men with whom he would be more willing to make this bargain than with them . 
They fell a talking then about terms , and the end of it was that Asgrim betrothed his daughter to Helgi , and the bridal day was named . 
Gunnar was at that feast , and many other of the bestmen . 
After the feast Njal offered to foster in his house Thorhall , Asgrim's son , and he was with Njal long after . 
He loved Njal more than his own father . 
Njal taught him law , so that he became the greatest lawyer in Iceland in those days . 
, and the master of the ship was Hallvard the White , a man from the Bay . 
He went to stay at Lithend , and was with Gunnar that winter , and was always asking him to fare abroad with him . 
I think it is wise , says Njal they will think thee there an honourable man , as thou art . 
I will not throw anything in the way of that , says Njal lean on me in this thing as much as thou likest . 
Good go with thee for thy words , says Gunnar , and he rides then home . 
fell again to talk with Gunnar that he should fare abroad . 
Wilt thou sail with me eastward ho ? says Gunnar . 
That I will of a surety , says he . 
Then Gunnar made up his mind to sail abroad with him . 
Njal took all Gunnar's goods into his keeping . 
Oyce , a north country word for the mouth of a river , from the Icelandic . 
Permia , the country one comes to after doubling the North Cape . 
GUNNAR GOES ABROAD So Gunnar fared abroad , and Kolskegg with him . 
They sailed first to Tonsberg , and were there that winter . 
There had then been a shift of rulers in Norway . 
Harold Grayfell was then dead , and so was Gunnhillda . 
Earl Hacon the Bad , Sigurd's son , Hacon's son , Gritgarth's son , then ruled the realm . 
The mother of Hacon was Bergliot , the daughter of Earl Thorir . 
Her mother was Olof Harvest heal . 
She was Harold Fair hair's daughter . 
Hallvard asks Gunnar if he would make up his mind to go to Earl Hacon ? No I will not do that , says Gunnar . 
Hast thou ever a long ship ? I have two , he says . 
Then I would that we two went on warfare and let us get men to go with us . 
I will do that , says Hallvard . 
After that they went to the Bay , and took with them two ships , and fitted them out thence . 
They had good choice of men , for much praise was said of Gunnar . 
Whither wilt thou first fare ? says Gunnar . 
I wish to go south east to Hisingen , to see my kinsman Oliver , says Hallvard . 
What dost thou want of him ? says Gunnar . 
He answered , He is a fine brave fellow , and he will be sure to get us some more strength for our voyage . 
Then let us go thither , says Gunnar . 
So , as soon as they were boun , they held on east to Hisingen , and had there a hearty welcome . 
Gunnar had only been there a short time ere Oliver made much of him . 
Oliver asks about his voyage , and Hallvard says that Gunnar wishes to go a warfaring to gather goods for himself . 
There's no use thinking of that , says Oliver , when ye have no force . 
Well says Hallvard , then you may add to it . 
So I do mean to strengthen Gunnar somewhat , says Oliver and though thou reckonest thyself my kith and kin , I think there is more good in him . 
What force , now , wilt thou add to ours ? he asks . 
Two long ships , one with twenty , and the other with thirty seats for rowers . 
Who shall man them ? asks Hallvard . 
I will man one of them with my own house carles , and the freemen around shall man the other . 
But still I have found out that strife has come into the river , and I know not whether ye two will be able to get away for they are in the river . 
Brothers twain , says Oliver one's name is Vandil , and the other's Karli , sons of Sjolf the Old , east away out of Gothland . 
Hallvard told Gunnar that Oliver had added some ships to theirs , and Gunnar was glad at that . 
They busked them for their voyage thence , till they were allboun . 
Then Gunnar and Hallvard went before Oliver , and thanked him he bade them fare warily for the sake of those brothers . 
ENDNOTES A town at the mouth of the Christiania Firth . 
It was a great place for traffic in early times , and was long the only mart in the south east of Norway . 
GUNNAR GOES A SEA ROVING So Gunnar held on out of the river , and he and Kolskegg were both on board one ship . 
But Hallvard was on board another . 
So they did that , and made all ready on board their ships . 
The others parted their ships asunder , and made a fareway between the ships . 
Oliver had given Gunnar a good sword Gunnar now drew it , and had not yet put on his helm . 
He leapt at once on the forecastle of Vandil's ship , and gave one man his death blow . 
Karli ran his ship alongside the other side of Gunnar's ship , and hurled a spear athwart the deck , and aimed at him about the waist . 
Now Gunnar leapt back to his own ship , and then Hallvard came up , and now a great battle arose . 
They saw now that their leader was unflinching , and every man did as well as he could . 
Sometimes Gunnar smote with the sword , and sometimes he hurled the spear , and many a man had his bane at his hand . 
As for Karli , he hastened in a ship to his brother Vandil , and thence they fought that day . 
During the day Kolskegg took a rest on Gunnar's ship , and Gunnar sees that . 
Against Gunnar came Vandil , and smote at once at him with his sword , and the blow fell on his shield . 
Gunnar gave the shield a twist as the sword pierced it , and broke it short off at the hilt . 
Then Gunnar smote back at Vandil , and three swords seemed to be aloft , and Vandil could not see how to shun the blow . 
Then Gunnar cut both his legs from under him , and at the same time Kolskegg ran Karli through with a spear . 
After that they took great war spoil . 
Thence they held on south to Denmark , and thence east to Smoland , and had victory wherever they went . 
They did not come back in autumn . 
The next summer they held on to Reval , and fell in there with sea rovers , and fought at once , and won the fight . 
and lay there somewhile under a ness . 
There they saw a man coming down from the ness above them Gunnar went on shore to meet the man , and they had a talk . 
Gunnar asked him his name , and he said it was Tofi . 
Gunnar asked again what he wanted . 
Thee I want to see , says the man . 
Two warships lie on the other side under the ness , and I will tell thee who command them two brothers are the captains one's name is Hallgrim , and the other's Kolskegg . 
I know them to be mighty men of war and I know too that they have such good weapons that the like are not to be had . 
Hallgrim has a bill which he had made by seething spells and this is what the spells say , that no weapon shall give him his death blow save that bill . 
Then Gunnar sang a song Soon shall I that spearhead seize , And the bold sea rover slay , Him whose blows on headpiece ring , Heaper up of piles of dead . 
bounding , O'er the sea depths I will ride , While the wretch who spells abuseth , Life shall lose in Sigar's storm . 
Kolskegg has a short sword that is also the best of weapons . 
Force , too , they have a third more than ye . 
They have also much goods , and have stowed them away on land , and I know clearly where they are . 
But they have sent a spy ship off the ness , and they know all about you . 
Now they are getting themselves ready as fast as they can and as soon as they are boun , they mean to run out against you . 
Then they busked them and just when they were boun' they see ships coming up to them . 
And now a fight sprung up between them , and they fought long , and many men fell . 
Gunnar slew many a man . 
Hallgrim and his men leapt on board Gunnar's ship . 
Gunnar turns to meet him , and Hallgrim thrust at him with his bill . 
There was a boom athwart the ship , and Gunnar leapt nimbly back over it . 
Gunnar's shield was just before the boom , and Hallgrim thrust his bill into it , and through it , and so on into the boom . 
Gunnar cut at Hallgrim's arm hard , and lamed the forearm , but the sword would not bite . 
And that vow Gunnar kept , in that he bore the bill while he lived . 
Those namesakes the two Kolskeggs fought together , and it was a near thing which would get the better of it . 
Then Gunnar came up , and gave the other Kolskegg his death blow . 
After that the sea rovers begged for mercy . 
So they went off , and Gunnar took all the goods that were left behind . 
Gunnar said he was willing to go , and so he went ashore , and Tofi before him , to a wood , and Gunnar behind him . 
They came to a place where a great heap of wood was piled together . 
Tofi says the goods were under there , then they tossed off the wood , and found under it both gold and silver , clothes , and good weapons . 
They bore those goods to the ships , and Gunnar asks Tofi in what way he wished him to repay him . 
Tofi answered , I am a Dansk man by race , and I wish thou wouldst bring me to my kinsfolk . 
ENDNOTES Rill of wolf stream of blood . 
An island in the Baltic , off the coast of Esthonia . 
Endil's courser periphrasis for a ship . 
Sigar's storm periphrasis for a sea fight . 
GUNNAR GOES TO KING HAROLD GORM'SSON AND EARL HACON Gunnar took Tofi on board , and said to Kolskegg and Hallvard , Now we will hold our course for the north lands . 
They were well pleased at that , and bade him have his way . 
So Gunnar sailed from the east with much goods . 
He had ten ships , and ran in with them to Heidarby in Denmark . 
King Harold Gorm's son was there up the country , and he was told about Gunnar , and how too that there was no man his match in all Iceland . 
Gunnar was there half a month . 
The king made himself sport by letting Gunnar prove himself in divers feats of strength against his men , and there were none that were his match even in one feat . 
Gunnar thanked the king for his offer and said , I will first of all sail back to Iceland to see my friends and kinsfolk . 
Then thou wilt never come back to us , says the king . 
Fate will settle that , lord , says Gunnar . 
Then Gunnar fared north to Hisingen . 
Oliver welcomed him with both hands , and he gave back to Oliver his ships , with their lading , and said that was his share of the spoil . 
Oliver took the goods , and said Gunnar was a good man and true , and bade him stay with him some while . 
Hallvard asked Gunnar if he had a mind to go to see Earl Hacon . 
Gunnar said that was near his heart , for now I am somewhat proved , but then I was not tried at all when thou badest me do this before . 
At Yule the Earl gave him a gold ring . 
GUNNAR COMES OUT TO ICELAND When the spring came , the Earl asks Gunnar what course he meant to take . 
He said he would go to Iceland . 
Gunnar fitted out his ship as early as he could , and Hallvard fared out with him and Kolskegg . 
They came out early in the summer , and made Arnbael's Oyce before the Thing met . 
Gunnar rode home from the ship , but got men to strip her and lay her up . 
But when they came home all men were glad to see them . 
They were blithe and merry to their household , nor had their haughtiness grown while they were away . 
Gunnar asks if Njal were at home and he was told that he was at home then he let them saddle his horse , and those brothers rode over to Bergthorsknoll . 
Njal was glad at their coming , and begged them to stay there that night , and Gunnar told him of his voyages . 
Njal said he was a man of the greatest mark , and thou hast been much proved but still thou wilt be more tried hereafter for many will envy thee . 
With all men I would wish to stand well , says Gunnar . 
Much bad will happen , said Njal , and thou wilt always have some quarrel to ward off . 
So be it , then , says Gunnar , so that I have a good ground on my side . 
So will it be too , says NjaI , if thou hast not to smart for others . 
Njal asked Gunnar if he would ride to the Thing . 
Gunnar rode home , and gave Njal good gifts , and thanked him for the care he had taken of his goods . 
Kolskegg urged him on much to ride to the Thing , saying , There thy honour will grow , for many will flock to see thee there . 
That has been little to my mind , says Gunnar , to make a show of myself but I think it good and right to meet good and worthy men . 
Hallvard by this time was also come thither , and offered to ride to the thing with them . 
GUNNAR'S WOOING So Gunnar rode , and they all rode . 
But when they came to the Thing they were so well arrayed that none could match them in bravery and men came out of every booth to wonder at them . 
Gunnar rode to the booths of the men of Rangriver , and was there with his kinsmen . 
Many men came to see Gunnar , and ask tidings of him and he was easy and merry to all men , and told them all they wished to hear . 
He took her greeting well , and asks what woman she might be . 
She told him her name was Hallgerda , and said she was Hauskuld's daughter , Dalakoll's son . 
She spoke up boldly to him , and bade him tell her of his voyages but he said he would not gainsay her a talk . 
Then they sat them down and talked . 
She was so clad that she had on a red kirtle , and had thrown over her a scarlet cloak trimmed with needlework down to the waist . 
Her hair came down to her bosom , and was both fair and full . 
Gunnar was clad in the scarlet clothes which King Harold Gorm's son had given him he had also the gold ring on his arm which Earl Hacon had given him . 
So they talked long out loud , and at last it came about that he asked whether she were unmarried . 
She said , so it was , and there are not many who would run the risk of that . 
Thinkest thou none good enough for thee ? Not that , she says , but I am said to be hard to please in husbands . 
How wouldst thou answer , were I to ask for thee ? That cannot be in thy mind , she says . 
It is though , says he . 
If thou hast any mind that way , go and see my father . 
After that they broke off their talk . 
Gunnar went straightway to the Dalesmen's booths , and met a man outside the doorway , and asks whether Hauskuld were inside the booth ? The man says that he was . 
Then Gunnar went in , and Hauskuld and Hrut made him welcome . 
He sat down between them , and no one could find out from their talk that there had ever been any misunderstanding between them . 
At last Gunnar's speech turned thither how these brothers would answer if he asked for Hallgerda ? Well , says Hauskuld , if that is indeed thy mind . 
Gunnar says that he is in earnest , but we so parted last time , that many would think it unlikely that we should ever be bound together . 
How thinkest thou , kinsman Hrut ? says Hauskuld . 
Hrut answered , Methinks this is no even match . 
How dost thou make that out ? says Gunnar . 
Hrut spoke , In this wise will I answer thee about this matter , as is the very truth . 
Thou art a brisk brave man well to do , and unblemished but she is much mixed up with ill report , and I will not cheat thee in anything . 
Not so , says Hrut , 't is more because I see that thou art unable to help thyself but though we make no bargain , we would still be thy friends . 
I have talked to her about it , says Gunnar , and it is not far from her mind . 
Then Hallgerda was sent for , and they talked over the business when she was by , and now , as before , they made her betroth herself . 
The bridal feast was to be at Lithend , and at first they were to set about it secretly but the end after all was that every one knew of it . 
Gunnar rode home from the Thing , and came to Bergthorsknoll , and told Njal of the bargain he had made . 
Gunnar asks Njal why he thought this so unwise ? Because from her , says Njal , will arise all kind of ill if she comes hither east . 
Never shall she spoil our friendship , says Gunnar . 
Ah ! but yet that may come very near , says Njal and , besides , thou wilt have always to make atonement for her . 
Gunnar asked Njal to the wedding , and all those as well whom he wished should be at it from Njal's house . 
Njal promised to go and after that Gunnar rode home , and then rode about the district to bid men to his wedding . 
OF THRAIN SIGFUS' SON There was a man named Thrain , he was the son of Sigfus , the son of Sighvat the Red . 
He kept house at Gritwater on Fleetlithe . 
He was Gunnar's kinsman , and a man of great mark . 
He had to wife Thorhillda Skaldwife she had a sharp tongue of her own , and was given to jeering . 
He and his wife were bidden to the wedding , and she and Bergthora , Skarphedinn's daughter , Njal's wife , waited on the guests with meat and drink . 
Kettle was the name of the second son of Sigfus he kept house in the Mark , east of Markfleet . 
He had to wife Thorgerda , Njal's daughter . 
Thorkell was the name of the third son of Sigfus the fourth's name was Mord the fifth's Lambi the sixth's Sigmund the seventh's Sigurd . 
These were all Gunnar's kinsmen , and great champions . 
Gunnar bade them all to the wedding . 
Gunnar had also bidden Valgard the Guileful , and Wolf Aurpriest , and their sons Runolf and Mord . 
Many other women were with her , and besides there were Thorkatla Asgrim Ellidagrim's son's daughter , and Njal's two daughters , Thorgerda and Helga . 
Gunnar had already many guests to meet them , and he thus arranged his men . 
Thorir would sit outermost of the men of mark , for every one was pleased with the seat he got . 
The bride sat in the middle of the cross bench on the dais but on one hand of her sat her daughter Thorgerda , and on the other Thorkatla Asgrim Ellidagrim's son's daughter . 
Thorhillda went about waiting on the guests , and Bergthora bore the meat on the board . 
Now Thrain Sigfus' son kept staring at Thorgerda Glum's daughter his wife Thorhillda saw this , and she got wroth , and made a couplet upon him . 
Thrain , she says , Gaping mouths are no wise good , Goggle eyne are in thy head . 
He rose at once up from the board , and said he would put Thorhillda away . 
I will not bear her jibes and jeers any longer and he was so quarrelsome about this , that he would not be at the feast unless she were driven away . 
And so it was , that she went away and now each man sat in his place , and they drank and were glad . 
Then Thrain began to speak , I will not whisper about that which is in my mind . 
Njal spoke , and said , That is to be said of this man , that the man is well to do for wealth , and a proper man in all things . 
A man , too , of the greatest mark so that ye may well make this match with him . 
Then Hauskuld spoke , What thinkest thou we ought to do , kinsman Hrut ? Thou mayst make the match , because it is an even one for her , says Hrut . 
Then they talk about the terms of the bargain , and are soon of one mind on all points . 
Then Gunnar stands up , and Thrain too , and they go to the cross bench . 
Gunnar asked that mother and daughter whether they would say yes to this bargain . 
They said they would find no fault with it , and Hallgerda betrothed her daughter . 
Then the places of the women were shifted again , and now Thorhalla sate between the brides . 
And now the feast sped on well , and when it was over , Hauskuld and his company ride west , but the men of Rangriver rode to their own abode . 
Gunnar gave many men gifts , and that made him much liked . 
Hallgerda took the housekeeping under her , and stood up for her rights in word and deed . 
Thorgerda took to housekeeping at Gritwater , and was a good housewife . 
So Gunnar and Hallgerda set off for Bergthorsknoll , and when they got there Helgi and his wife were not at home . 
Njal gave Gunnar and his wife a hearty welcome , and when they had been there a little while , Helgi came home with Thorhalla his wife . 
Then Bergthora went up to the crossbench , and Thorhalla with her , and Bergthora said to Hallgerda , Thou shalt give place to this woman . 
She answered , To no one will I give place , for I will not be driven into the corner for any one . 
I shall rule here , said Bergthora . 
After that Thorhalla sat down , and Bergthora went round the table with water to wash the guests' hands . 
Then Hallgerda took hold of Bergthora's hand , and said , There's not much to choose , though , between you two . 
Thou hast hangnails on every finger , and Njal is beardless . 
That's true , says Bergthora , yet neither of us finds fault with the other for it but Thorwald , thy husband , was not beardless , and yet thou plottedst his death . 
After that they set off home . 
Mind this Bergthora , said Hallgerda , that we shall meet again . 
Bergthora said she should not be better off for that . 
Gunnar said nothing at all , but went home to Lithend , and was there at home all the winter . 
And now the summer was running on towards the Great Thing . 
The trolls take thy friends , says Hallgerda . 
So Gunnar rode to the Thing , and saw it was not good to come to words with her . 
Njal rode to the Thing too , and all his sons with him . 
Now it must be told of what tidings happened at home . 
name was Kol he had been with her long , and was one of the worst of men . 
There was a man named Swart he was Njal's and Bergthora's housecarle they were very fond of him . 
Now Bergthora told him that he must go up into Redslip and hew wood but she said , I will get men to draw home the wood . 
He said he would do the work she set him to win and so he went up into Redslip , and was to be there a week . 
Some gangrel men came to Lithend from the east across Markfleet , and said that Swart had been in Redslip , and hewn wood , and done a deal of work . 
So , says Hallgerda , Bergthora must mean to rob me in many things , but I'll take care that he does not hew again . 
Rannveig , Gunnar's mother , heard that , and said , There have been good housewives before now , though they never set their hearts on manslaughter . 
What shall I do to him ? he says . 
Askest thou that , when thou art the worst of men ? she says . 
I can get that done , he says , but 'tis more likely that I shall lose my own life for it . 
Everything grows big in thy eyes , she says , and thou behavest ill to say this after I have spoken up for thee in everything . 
I must get another man to do this if thou darest not . 
He took the axe , and was very wroth , and takes a horse that Gunnar owned , and rides now till he comes east of Markfleet . 
There he got off and bided in the wood , till they had carried down the firewood , and Swart was left alone behind . 
She said , I shall take such good care of thee , that no harm shall come to thee . 
May be so , says he , but I dreamt all the other way as I slept ere I did the deed . 
Now they come up into the wood , and find Swart slain , and bear him home . 
Hallgerda sent a man to Gunnar at the Thing to tell him of the slaying . 
Gunnar said no hard words at first of Hallgerda to the messenger , and men knew not at first whether he thought well or ill of it . 
A little after he stood up , and bade his men go with him they did so , and fared to Njal's booth . 
Gunnar sent a man to fetch Njal , and begged him to come out . 
Njal held his peace while he told him the whole story . 
Then Njal spoke , Thou must take heed not to let her have her way in everything . 
Gunnar said , Thou thyself shalt settle the terms . 
Gunnar paid up the money out of hand , and rode home afterwards . 
Njal , too , came home from the Thing , and his sons . 
Bergthora saw the money , and said , This is very justly settled but even as much money shall be paid for Kol as time goes on . 
Gunnar came home from the Thing and blamed Hallgerda . 
She said , better men lay unatoned in many places . 
Gunnar said , she might have her way in beginning a quarrel , but how the matter is to be settled rests with me . 
Hallgerda was for ever chattering of Swart's slaying , but Bergthora liked that ill . 
She stayed there and did not go in , for she did not know the man . 
That man had a spear in his hand , and was girded with a short sword . 
She asked this man his name . 
Atli is my name , says he . 
She asked whence he came . 
I am an Eastfirther , he says . 
Whither shalt thou go ? she says . 
I am a homeless man , says he , and I thought to see Njal and Skarphedinn , and know if they would take me in . 
What work is handiest to thee ? says she . 
I do not blame thee , she says , though thou art no milksop . 
Atli said , Hast thou any voice in things here ? I am Njal's wife , she says , and I have as much to say to our housefolk as he . 
Wilt thou take me in then ? says he . 
I will give thee thy choice of that , says she . 
If thou wilt do all the work that I set before thee , and that , though I wish to send thee where a man's life is at stake . 
Thou must have so many men at thy beck , says he , that thou wilt not need me for such work . 
That I will settle as I please , she says . 
We will strike a bargain on these terms , says he . 
Then she took him into the household . 
Njal and his sons came home and asked Bergthora what man that might be ? He is thy house carle , she says , and I took him in . 
Then she went on to say he was no sluggard at work . 
He will be a great worker enough , I daresay , says Njal , but I do not know whether he will be such a good worker . 
Skarphedinn was good to Atli . 
Njal and his sons ride to the Thing in the course of the summer Gunnar was also at the Thing . 
Njal took out a purse of money . 
What money is that , father ? Here is the money that Gunnar paid me for our housecarle last summer . 
That will come to stand thee in some stead , says Skarphedinn , and smiled as he spoke . 
, bailiff , head workman . 
Well mayst thou fare , she says , and thou shalt not do this deed for nothing . 
He took his weapons and his horse , and rode up to Fleetlithe , and there met men who were coming down from Lithend . 
They were at home east in the Mark . 
They asked Atli whither he meant to go ? He said he was riding to look for an old jade . 
They said that was a small errand for such a workman , but still 'twould be better to ask those who have been about last night . 
Who are they ? says he . 
Killing Kol , say they , Hallgerda's house carle , fared from the fold just now , and has been awake all night . 
I do not know whether I dare to meet him , says Atli , he is bad tempered , and may be that I shall let another's wound be my warning . 
Thou bearest that look beneath the brows as though thou wert no coward , they said , and showed him where Kol was . 
Then he spurred his horse and rides fast , and when he meets Ko , Atli said to him , Go the pack saddle bands well , says Atli . 
That's no business of thine , worthless fellow , nor of any one else whence thou comest . 
Atli said , Thou hast something behind that is earnest work , but that is to die . 
After that Atli thrust at him with his spear , and struck him about his middle . 
Kol swept at him with his axe , but missed him , and fell off his horse , and died at once . 
Hast thou slain him ? say they . 
Well , 'twill seem to Hallgerda as though he has not fallen by his own hand . 
After that Atli rode home and told Bergthora she thanked him for this deed , and for the words which he had spoken about it . 
I do not know , says he , what Njal will think of this . 
Wilt thou send at all a man to Njal to tell him of the slaying ? I will not , she says , I should like it better that Kol were unatoned . 
Then they stopped talking about it . 
Hallgerda was told of Kol's slaying , and of the words that Atli had said . 
She said Atli should be paid off for them . 
She sent a man to the Thing to tell Gunnar of Kol's slaying he answered little or nothing , and sent a man to tell Njal . 
Njal pulled down the purse of money which hung up in the booth , and went out his sons went with him to Gunnar's booth . 
Skarphedinn said to a man who was in the doorway of the booth , Say thou to Gunnar that my father wants to see him . 
He did so , and Gunnar went out at once and gave Njal a hearty welcome . 
After that they began to talk . 
'Tis ill done , says Njal , that my housewife should have broken the peace , and let thy house carle be slain . 
She shall not have blame for that , says Gunnar . 
Settle the award thyself , says Njal . 
So I will do , says Gunnar , and I value those two men at an even price , Swart and Kol . 
Thou shalt pay me twelve ounces in silver . 
Njal took the purse of money and handed it to Gunnar . 
Gunnar knew the money , and saw it was the same that he had paid Njal . 
Njal went away to his booth , and they were just as good friends as before . 
When Njal came home , he blamed Bergthora but she said she would never give way to Hallgerda . 
Hallgerda was very cross with Gunnar , because he had made peace for Kol's slaying . 
Still that is less wise , says Njal . 
Then he made up his mind to be a hired servant there . 
Now it must be told of Hallgerda that she sent a man west to Bearfirth , to fetch Brynjolf the Unruly , her kinsman . 
He was a base son of Swan , and he was one of the worst of men . 
Gunnar knew nothing about it . 
Hallgerda said he was well fitted to be a grieve . 
So Brynjolf came from the west , and Gunnar asked what he was to do there ? He said he was going to stay there . 
Gunnar said little , but was not unkind to him , and so things went on till the Thing . 
Bergthora said to Atli , Go thou up into Thorolfsfell and work there a week . 
So he went up thither , and was there on the sly , and burnt charcoal in the wood . 
Hallgerda said to Brynjolf , I have been told Atli is not at home , and he must be winning work on Thorolfsfell . 
What thinkest thou likeliest that he is working at , says he . 
At something in the wood , she says . 
What shall I do to him ? he asks . 
Thou shalt kill him , says she . 
He was rather slow in answering her , and Hallgerda said , 'Twould grow less in Thiostolf's eyes to kill Atli if he were alive . 
Thou shalt have no need to goad me on much more , he says , and then he seized his weapons , and takes his horse and mounts , and rides to Thorolfsfell . 
Then he sees where the charcoal pit is , and a man stands by it . 
He saw that he had thrust his spear in the ground by him . 
Brynjolf goes along with the smoke right up to him , but he was eager at his work , and saw him not . 
Then Brynjolf cast himself down on the ground , but the spear flew away over him . 
He answered him never a word , nor did he take the axe before he was dead . 
Then he rode up to the house on Thorolfsfell , and told of the slaying , and after that rode home and told Hallgerda . 
She sent men to Bergthorsknoll , and let them tell Bergthora that now Kol's slaying was paid for . 
After that Hallgerda sent a man to the Thing to tell Gunnar of Atli's killing . 
Gunnar stood up , and Kolskegg with him , and Kolskegg said , Unthrifty will Hallgerda's kinsmen be to thee . 
Then they go to see Njal , and Gunnar said , I have to tell thee of Atli's killing . 
He told him also who slew him , and went on , And now I will bid thee atonement for the deed , and thou shalt make the award thyself . 
Njal said , We two have always meant never to come to strife about anything but still I cannot make him out a thrall . 
Gunnar said that was all right , and stretched out his hand . 
Njal named his witnesses , and they made peace on those terms . 
Skarphedinn said , Hallgerda does not let our housecarles die of old age . 
Gunnar said , Thy mother will take care that blow goes for blow between the houses . 
Ay , ay , says Njal , there will be enough of that work . 
After that Njal fixed the price at a hundred in silver , but Gunnar paid it down at once . 
Many who stood by said that the award was high Gunnar got wroth , and said that a full atonement was often paid for those who were no brisker men than Atli . 
With that they rode home from the Thing . 
Bergthora said to Njal when she saw the money , Thou thinkest thou hast fulfilled thy promise , but now my promise is still behind . 
There is no need that thou shouldst fulfil it , says Njal . 
Nay , says she , thou hast guessed it would be so and so it shall be . 
There's not a pin to choose between you , she said , for both of you are so blate ? That's as things prove , says he . 
THE SLAYING OF BRYNJOLF THE UNRULY There was a man named Thord , he was surnamed Freedmanson . 
Sigtrygg was his father's name , and he had been the freedman of Asgerd , and he was drowned in Markfleet . 
That was why Thord was with Njal afterwards . 
He was a tall man and a strong , and he had fostered all Njal's sons . 
He had set his heart on Gudfinna Thorolf's daughter , Njal's kinswoman she was housekeeper at home there , and was then with child . 
Now Bergthora came to talk with Thord Freedmanson she said , Thou shalt go to kill Brynjolf , Hallgerda's kinsman . 
I am no man slayer , he says , but still I will do whatever thou wilt . 
This is my will , she says . 
After that he went up to Lithend , and made them call Hallgerda out , and asked where Brynjolf might be . 
What's thy will with him , she says . 
I want him to tell me where he has hidden Atli's body I have heard say that he has buried it badly . 
She pointed to him and said he was down yonder in Acretongue . 
Take heed , says Thord , that the same thing does not befall him as befell Atli . 
Thou art no man slayer , she says , and so naught will come of it even if ye two do meet . 
Never have I seen man's blood , nor do I know how I should feel if I did , he says , and gallops out of the town and down to Acretongue . 
Rannveig , Gunnar's mother , had heard their talk . 
Thou goadest his mind much , Hallgerda , she says , but I think him a dauntless man , and that thy kinsman will find . 
They met on the beaten way , Thord and Brynjolf and Thord said , Guard thee , Brynjolf , for I will do no dastard's deed by thee . 
Brynjolf rode at Thord , and smote at him with his axe . 
Then he fell from horseback , and was dead on the spot . 
Thord met Hallgerda's herdsman , and gave out the slaying as done by his hand , and said where he lay , and bade him tell Hallgerda of the slaying . 
After that he rode home to Bergthorsknoll , and told Bergthora of the slaying , and other people too . 
Good luck go with thy hands , she said . 
The herdsman told Hallgerda of the slaying she was snappish at it , and said much ill would come of it , if she might have her way . 
Skarphedinn spoke , That man , though , must have been twice fey , he says , who lost his life by our foster father's hand , who has never seen man's blood . 
And many would think that we brothers would sooner have done this deed with the turn of temper that we have . 
Scant space wilt thou have , says Njal , ere the like befalls thee but need will drive thee to it . 
Then they went to meet Gunnar , and told him of the slaying . 
Gunnar spoke and said that was little man scathe , but yet he was a free man . 
Njal offered to make peace at once , and Gunnar said yes , and he was to settle the terms himself . 
He made his award there and then , and laid it at one hundred in silver . 
Njal paid down the money on the spot , and they were at peace after that . 
SIGMUND COMES OUT TO ICELAND There was a man whose name was Sigmund . 
He was the son of Lambi , the son of Sighvat the Red . 
He was a great voyager , and a comely and a courteous man tall too , and strong . 
He was a man of proud spirit , and a good skald , and well trained in most feats of strength . 
He was noisy and boisterous , and given to jibes and mocking . 
He made the land east in Homfirth . 
Skiolld was the name of his fellow traveller he was a Swedish man , and ill to do with . 
They took horse and rode from the east out of Hornfirth , and did not draw bridle before they came to Lithend , in the Fleetlithe . 
Gunnar gave them a hearty welcome , for the bonds of kinship were close between them . 
Gunnar begged Sigmund to stay there that winter , and Sigmund said he would take the offer if Skiolld his fellow might be there too . 
Well , I have been so told about him , said Gunnar , that he is no betterer of thy temper but as it is , thou rather needest to have it bettered . 
His hands are clean who warns another , says Sigmund . 
Then mind the advice given thee , says Gunnar , for thou art sure to be sore tried and go along always with me , and lean upon my counsel . 
After that they were in Gunnar's company . 
One day Hallgerda said to Gunnar , It is not good to be content with that hundred in silver which thou tookest for my kinsman Brynjolf . 
I shall avenue him if I may , she says . 
Gunnar said he had no mind to bandy words with her , and went away . 
He rode off and told Njal , but Njal told Thord , and Kolskegg rode home , and Njal thanked them for their faithfulness . 
Then Thord spoke and said , Well , this is a wondrous thing ! What is it that thou see'st that seems after a wondrous fashion ? says Njal . 
Methinks the goat lies here in the hollow , and he is all one gore of blood . 
Njal said that there was no goat there , nor anything else . 
What is it then ? says Thord . 
Thou must be a fey' man , says Njal , and thou must have seen the fetch that follows thee , and now be ware of thyself . 
That will stand me in no stead , says Thord , if death is doomed for me . 
Then Hallgerda came to talk with Thrain Sigfus' son , and said , I would think thee my son in law indeed , she says , if thou slayest Thord Freedmanson . 
Who will avenge it ? she asks is it the beardless carle ? Not so , says he , his sons will avenge it . 
After that they talked long and low , and no man knew what counsel they took together . 
Once it happened that Gunnar was not at home , but those companions were . 
Thrain had come in from Gritwater , and then he and they and Hallgerda sat out of doors and talked . 
They all acknowledged that they had given her this promise . 
Njal will be at the Thing and his sons and Gunnar , but then ye two shall slay Thord . 
They all agreed that this plan should be carried out . 
After that they busked them east to the Firth , and Gunnar was not aware of what they were about , and Gunnar rode to the Thing . 
Njal sent Thord Freedmanson away east under Eyjafell , and bade him be away there one night . 
THE SLAYING OF THORD FREEDMANSON Then Sigmund came from the east and those companions . 
Hallgerda told them that Thord was at home , but that he was to ride straightway to the Thing after a few nights' space . 
Now ye will have a fair chance at him , she says , but if this goes off , ye will never get nigh him . 
Men came to Lithend from Thorolfsfell , and told Hallgerda that Thord was there . 
That we will do , says Sigmund . 
So they went out , and took their weapons and horses and rode on the way to meet him . 
Sigmund said to Thrain , Now thou shalt have nothing to do with it for we shall not need all of us . 
Very well , so I will , says he . 
Then Thord rode up to them a little while after , and Sigmund said to him , Give thyself up , he says , for now shalt thou die . 
That shall not be , says Thord , come thou to single combat with me . 
Thou wilt feel the force of that , says Thord , for Skarphedinn will avenge me . 
After that they fall on him , and he breaks a spear of each of them , so well did he guard himself . 
Then Skiolld cut off his hand , and he still kept them off with his other hand for some time , till Sigmund thrust him through . 
Then he fell dead to earth . 
They drew over him turf and stones and Thrain said , We have won an ill work , and Njal's sons will take this slaying ill when they hear of it . 
They ride home and tell Hallgerda . 
But if Hallgerda makes thee take another fly in thy mouth , then that will be thy bane . 
Hallgerda sent a man to Bergthorsknoll , to tell the slaying , and another man to the Thing , to tell it to Gunnar . 
Bergthora said she would not fight against Hallgerda with ill words about such a matter That , quoth she , would be no revenge for so great a quarrel . 
I still hope he may take it well , though he be sorely tried . 
So they went to see Njal , and called him to come out and talk to them . 
He went out at once to meet Gunnar , and they talked , nor were there any more men by at first than Kolskegg . 
Hard tidings have I to tell thee , says Gunnar the slaying of Thord Freedmanson , and I wish to offer thee selfdoom for the slaying . 
Wilt thou let thy sons be by , pray ? says Gunnar . 
So it shall be , says Gunnar . 
See thou to it alone . 
Then they shook one another by the hand , and made peace well and quickly . 
Then Njal said , The award that I make is two hundred in silver , and that thou wilt think much . 
I do not think it too much , says Gunnar , and went home to his booth . 
Njal's sons came home , and Skarphedinn asked whence that great sum of money came , which his father held in his hand . 
Who slew him ? says Skarphedinn . 
Sigmund and Skiolld , but Thrain was standing near too , says Njal . 
Then we will not break it , says Skarphedinn , but if anything arises between us , then we will bear in mind the old feud . 
Then I will ask you to spare no one , says Njal . 
But still I have made peace for thee with Njal and his sons and now , take care that thou dost not let another fly come into thy mouth . 
Thou art not at all after my mind , thou goest about with jibes and jeers , with scorn and mocking but that is not my turn of mind . 
That is why thou gettest on so well with Hallgerda , because ye two have your minds more alike . 
Gunnar scolded him a long time , and he answered him well , and said he would follow his counsel more for the time to come than he had followed it hitherto . 
Gunnar told him then they might get on together . 
Gunnar and Njal kept up their friendship though the rest of their people saw little of one another . 
It happened once that some gangrel women came to Lithend from Bergthorsknoll they were great gossips and rather spiteful tongued . 
Hallgerda had a bower , and sate often in it , and there sate with her her daughter Thorgerda , and there too were Thrain and Sigmund , and a crowd of women . 
Gunnar was not there , nor Kolskegg . 
These gangrel women went into the bower , and Hallgerda greeted them , and made room for them then she asked them for news , but they had none to tell . 
Hallgerda asked where they had been overnight they said at Bergthorsknoll . 
What was Njal doing ? she says . 
He was hard at work sitting still , they said . 
What were Njal's sons doing ? she says they think themselves men at any rate . 
They must be bent on some great deed , says Hallgerda . 
We do not know that , they say . 
What were Njal's house carles doing ? she asks . 
We don't know what some of them were doing , but one was carting dung up the hill side . 
What good was there in doing that ? she asks . 
He said it made the swathe better there than anywhere else , they reply . 
Witless now is Njal , says Hallgerda , though he knows how to give counsel on everything . 
How so ? they ask . 
Shaft not shun this ditty shameful Which I shape upon them now . 
Thou art a jewel indeed , says Hallgerda how yielding thou art to what I ask ! Just then Gunnar came in . 
He had been standing outside the door of the bower , and heard all the words that had passed . 
They were in a great fright when they saw him come in , and then all held their peace , but before there had been bursts of laughter . 
Mind , this will be thy death . 
But they were all so sore afraid of him , that no one dared to repeat those words . 
After that he went away , but the gangrel women talked among themselves , and said that they would get a reward from Bergthora if they told her all this . 
They went then away afterwards down thither , and took Bergthora aside and told her the whole story of their own free will . 
What gifts are these ? asks Skarphedinn . 
You , my sons , says Bergthora , have got one gift between you all . 
Ye are nicknamed Dungbeardlings , but my husband the Beardless Carle . 
Ours is no woman's nature , says Skarphedinn , that we should fly into a rage at every little thing . 
And yet Gunnar was wroth for your sakes , says she , and he is thought to be good tempered . 
But if ye do not take vengeance for this wrong , ye will avenge no shame . 
Grim was silent and bit his lip . 
Helgi made no sign , and he said never a word . 
Hauskuld went off with Bergthora she came into the room again , and fretted and foamed much . 
He said , Who have taken down our shields ? Thy sons went out with them , says Bergthora . 
You would not then be armed , said Njal , if you meant that , and your errand must be something else . 
'Twould be well then if it turned out so that the prey does not get away from you . 
I will give them my heartfelt thanks , said Bergthora , if they tell me the slaying of Sigmund . 
ENDNOTES Swanbath's beams periphrasis for gold . 
They found the stud horses between two brooks . 
Skarphedinn caught sight of them , for Sigmund was in bright clothing . 
Skarphedinn said , See you now the red elf yonder , lads ? They looked that way , and said they saw him . 
Hauskuld sat him down , but they went until they came up to them . 
Skarphedinn said to Sigmund , Take thy weapons and defend thyself that is more needful now than to make mocking songs on me and my brothers . 
Sigmund took up his weapons , but Skarphedinn waited the while . 
Skiolld turned against Grim and Helgi , and they fell hotly to fight . 
Skarphedinn dashes the spearhaft in two , and lifts up his axe and hews at Sigmund , and cleaves his shield down to below the handle . 
Sigmund drew his sword and cut at Skarphedinn , and the sword cuts into his shield , so that it stuck fast . 
Skarphedinn gave the shield such a quick twist , that Sigmund let go his sword . 
Then Skarphedinn hews at Sigmund with his axe the Ogress of war . 
Sigmund had on a corselet , the axe came on his shoulder . 
Skarphedinn cleft the shoulder blade right through , and at the same time pulled the axe towards him . 
Sigmund fell down on both knees , but sprang up again at once . 
Thou hast lilted low to me already , says Skarphedinn , but still thou shalt fall upon thy mother's bosom ere we two part . 
III is that then , says Sigmund . 
Skarphedinn gave him a blow on his helm , and after that dealt Sigmund his death blow . 
Grim cut off Skiolld's foot at the ankle joint , but Helgi thrust him through with his spear , and he got his death there and then . 
The shepherd casts the head down as soon as ever they parted , for he dared not do so while their eyes were on him . 
They fared along till they met some men down by Markfleet , and told them the tidings . 
Skarphedinn gave himself out as the slayer of Sigmund and Grim and Helgi as the slayers of Skiolld then they fared home and told Njal the tidings . 
He answers them , Good luck to your hands I Here no self doom will come to pass as things stand . 
Now we must take up the story , and say that the shepherd came home to Lithend . 
He told Hallgerda the tidings . 
Skarphedinn put Sigmund's head into my hands , he says , and bade me bring it thee but I dared not do it , for I knew not how thou wouldst like that . 
After that she went to Gunnar and said , I tell thee of thy kinsman Sigmund's slaying Skarphedinn slew him , and wanted them to bring me the head . 
Just what might be looked for to befall him , says Gunnar , for ill redes bring ill luck , and both you and Skarphedinn have often done one another spiteful turns . 
Then Gunnar went away he let no steps be taken towards a suit for manslaughter , and did nothing about it . 
Hallgerda often put him in mind of it , and kept saying that Sigmund had fallen unatoned . 
Gunnar gave no heed to that . 
He gave Gunnar a hearty welcome . 
Gunnar said to Njal , I am come to seek a bit of good counsel at thy hands about a knotty point . 
Thou art worthy of it , says Njal , and gave him counsel what to do . 
Then Gunnar stood up and thanked him . 
Njal then spoke , and said , and took Gunnar by the hand , Over long hath thy kinsman Sigmund been unatoned . 
He has been long ago atoned , says Gunnar , but still I will not fling back the honour offered me . 
Gunnar had never spoken an ill word of Njal's sons . 
Njal would have nothing else than that Gunnar should make his own award in the matter . 
He awarded two hundred in silver , but let Skiolld fall without a price . 
They paid down all the money at once . 
ENDNOTES Thou , that heapest boards , etc . 
merely a periphrasis for man , and scarcely fitting , except in irony , to a splitter of firewood . 
OF GIZUR THE WHITE AND GEIR THE PRIEST There was a man named Gizur the White he was Teit's son Kettlebjorn the Old's son , of Mossfell . 
Bishop Isleif was Gizur's son . 
Gizur the White kept house at Mossfell , and was a great chief . 
That man is also named in this story whose name was Geir the Priest his mother was Thorkatla , another daughter of Kettlebjorn the Old of Mossfell . 
Geir kept house at Lithe . 
He and Gizur backed one another in every matter . 
At that time Mord Valgard's son kept house at Hof on the Rangrivervales he was crafty and spiteful . 
Valgard his father was then abroad , but his mother was dead . 
He was very envious of Gunnar of Lithend . 
He was wealthy , so far as goods went , but had not many friends . 
ENDNOTES Teit's mother's name was Helga . 
Gizur's mother's name was Olof . 
She was a daughter of Lord Baudvar , Viking Kari's son . 
This Hallkell and Kettlebjorn the Old were brothers . 
Otkell kept house at Kirkby his wife's name was Thorgerda she was a daughter of Mar , the son of Runolf , the son of Naddad of the Faroe Isles . 
Otkell was wealthy in goods . 
His son's name was Thorgeir he was young in years , and a bold dashing man . 
he was well off for money , but he was a spiteful man and a liar quarrelsome too , and ill to deal with . 
Hallbjorn went to stay with Otkell , and so did his thrall Malcolm . 
The thrall was always saying that he should think himself happy if Otkell owned him . 
Otkell was kind to him , and gave him a knife and belt , and a full suit of clothes , but the thrall turned his hand to any work that Otkell wished . 
But as soon as Otkell owned the thrall , then he did less and less work . 
Otkell often said outright to Hallbjorn , that he thought the thrall did little work and he told Otkell that there was worse in him yet to come . 
At that time came a great scarcity , so that men fell short both of meat and hay , and that spread over all parts of Iceland . 
Gunnar shared his hay and meat with many men and all got them who came thither , so long as his stores lasted . 
At last it came about that Gunnar himself fell short both of hay and meat . 
Then Gunnar called on Kolskegg to go along with him he called too on Thrain Sigfus' son , and Lambi Sigurd's son . 
They fared to Kirkby , and called Otkell out . 
He greeted them , and Gunnar said , It so happens that I am come to deal with thee for hay and meat , if there be any left . 
Otkell answers , There is store of both , but I will sell thee neither . 
Wilt thou give me them then , says Gunnar , and run the risk of my paying thee back somehow ? I will not do that either , says Otkell . 
Skamkell all the while was giving him bad counsel . 
Then Thrain Sigfus' son , said , It would serve him right if we take both hay and meat and lay down the worth of them instead . 
Skamkell answered , All the men of Mossfell must be dead and gone then , if ye , sons of Sigfus , are to come and rob them . 
I will have no hand in any robbery , says Gunnar . 
Wilt thou buy a thrall of me ? says Otkell . 
I'll not spare to do that , says Gunnar . 
After that Gunnar bought the thrall , and fared away as things stood . 
That is clear as day , says Njal , and I will of a surety supply his need somewhat . 
Then he fared up to Thorolfsfell , and his sons with him , and they bound hay on fifteen horses but on five horses they had meat . 
Njal came to Lithend , and called Gunnar out . 
Good are thy gifts , says Gunnar , but methinks thy friendship is still more worth , and that of thy sons . 
After that Njal fared home , and now the spring passes away . 
ENDNOTES That is , slew him in a duel . 
Mord Valgard's son lived at the other farm called Hof . 
Gunnar bade them come and be his guests again , as they rode back from the Thing and they said they would do so . 
Now they ride to the Thing , and Njal and his sons were there . 
That Thing was still and quiet . 
Now we must take up the story , and say that Hallgerda comes to talk with Malcolm the thrall . 
I have thought of an errand to send thee on , she says thou shalt go to Kirkby . 
And what shall I do there ? he says . 
Bad have I been , said the thrall , but never have I been a thief . 
The house dog knew him and did not bark at him , and ran and fawned on him . 
After that he went to the storehouse and loaded the two horses with food out of it , but the storehouse he burnt , and the dog he slew . 
He fares till he comes to Lithend then he misses the knife , but dares not to go back . 
Now he brings Hallgerda the food , and she showed herself well pleased at it . 
Next morning when men came out of doors at Kirkby there they saw great scathe . 
Now men ride home from the Thing , and many rode to Lithend . 
Hallgerda set food on the board , and in came cheese and butter . 
Gunner got wroth and said , Ill indeed is it if I am a partaker with thieves and with that he gave her a slap on the cheek . 
She said she would bear that slap in mind and repay it if she could . 
Now the men who had been at the Thing fare away . 
That is , from the sea side or shore , the long narrow strip of habitable land between the mountains and the sea in the south east of Iceland . 
OF SKAMKELL'S EVIL COUNSEL Now we must tell of Skamkell . 
He rides after some sheep up along Rangriver , and he sees something shining in the path . 
He finds a knife and belt , and thinks he knows both of them . 
He fares with them to Kirkby Otkell was out of doors when Skamkell came . 
He spoke to him and said , Knowest thou aught of these pretty things ? Of a surety , says Otkell , I know them . 
Who owns them ? asks Skamkell . 
Malcolm the thrall , says Otkell . 
Then more shall see and know them than we two , says Skamkell , for true will I be to thee in counsel . 
They showed them to many men , and all knew them . 
Then Skamkell said , What counsel wilt thou now take ? We shall go and see Mord Valgard's son , answers Otkell , and seek counsel of him . 
That is so , sure enough , says Mord , but yet I will get to know those things , out of Gunnar's household , which none of you will every know . 
We would give thee money , they say , if thou wouldst search out this thing . 
That money I shall buy full dear , answered Mord , but still , perhaps , it may be that I will look at the matter . 
They gave him three marks of silver for lending them his help . 
To this they agreed , and went home afterwards . 
Mord sends women about the country , and they were away half a month . 
Then they came back , and had big bundles . 
Mord asked where they had most given them ? They said that at Lithend most was given them , and Hallgerda had been most bountiful to them . 
He asked what was given them there . 
He begged to see it , and they showed it to him , and it was in great slices . 
These he took and kept . 
Then they saw , too , that a whole cheese had been given to them . 
Gunner said that he too thought that must be so . 
This is well spoken , says Gunnar , and so it shall be . 
A little after Gunnar sent after Thrain Sigfus' son and Lambi Sigurd's son , and they came at once . 
Gunnar told them whither he meant to go , and they were well pleased . 
Gunnar rode with eleven men to Kirkby , and called Otkell out . 
Skamkell was there too , and said , I will go out with thee , and it will be best now to have the balance of wit on thy side . 
And I would wish to stand closest by thee when thou needest it most , and now this will be put to the proof . 
Methinks it were best that thou puttest on an air of great weight . 
Then they , Otkell and Skamkell , and Hallkell , and Hallbjorn , went out all of them . 
They greeted Gunnar , and he took their greeting well . 
'Tis only what was to be looked for , says Hallbjorn . 
Now I will make thee a good offer , says Gunnar , and the offer is this , that the best men here in the country round settle the matter . 
This is a fair sounding offer , said Skamkell , but an unfair and uneven one . 
Thou art a man who has many friends among the householders , but Otkell has not many friends . 
But I will make thee an atonement by paying twice the worth of what was lost . 
So Otkell said , I will not give up to thee , Gunnar , the right to make thine own award . 
I see plainly , said Gunnar , the help of men who will be paid off for it one day , I daresay but come now , utter an award for thyself . 
Well offered is this , Gunnar , said Otkell , but still my will is thou wouldst give me time to see Gizur the White . 
Then Gunnar rode home , and when he had gone away , Hallbjorn said , Here I see how much man differs from man . 
But now he is still so kind hearted a man that it may be he will let these offers stand , though thou art only ready to take them afterwards . 
Methinks it were best that thou farest to see Gizur the White and Geir the Priest now this very hour . 
Otkell let them catch his horse , and made ready in every way . 
I will take that offer , says Otkell , but mind and be as truthful as ever thou canst . 
So it shall be , says Skamkell . 
Then Skamkell took his horse and cloak , but Otkell walks home . 
Thou wouldst be sore afraid , says Otkell , if Gunnar had his bill aloft , when thou art so scared now . 
Ah ! said Otkell , ye are all of you for yielding but Skamkell . 
And then they were both wroth . 
OF SKAMKELL'S LYING Skamkell came to Mossfell , and repeated all the offers to Gizur . 
So Skamkell stayed there the night over , but Gizur sent a man to fetch Geir the Priest and he came there early . 
Now we will let Skamkell tell his tale a second time , and see how he repeats it . 
Skamkell fared home , and rides first to Kirkby and calls Otkell out . 
He greets Skamkell well , and Skamkell brought him the greeting of Gizur and Geir . 
They gave that counsel that a summons should be set on foot , and that Gunnar should be summoned for having partaken of the goods , but Hallgerda for stealing them . 
It shall be done , said Otkell , in everything as they have given counsel . 
They thought most of this , says Skamkell , that thou hadst behaved so proudly but as for me , I made as great a man of thee in everything as I could . 
Now Otkell tells all this to his brothers , and Hallbjorn said , This must be the biggest lie . 
Now the time goes on until the last of the summoning days before the Althing came . 
Then Otkell called on his brothers and Skamkell to ride on the business of the summons to Lithend . 
Hallbjorn said he would go , but said also that they would rue this summoning as time went on . 
That will not harm us , says Skamkell , if thy bill be not aloft . 
Everything bides its time , says Gunnar but this journey will not turn out to their honour . 
A little after Gunnar went and told Njal . 
Let it not worry thee a jot , said Njal , for this will be the greatest honour to thee , ere this Thing comes to an end . 
As for us , we will all back thee with counsel and force . 
Gunnar thanked him and rode home . 
Otkell rides to the Thing , and his brothers with him and Skamkell . 
Gunnar went one day to the booth of the Dalemen Hrut was by the booth and Hauskuld , and they greeted Gunnar well . 
Now Gunnar tells them the whole story of the suit up to that time . 
What counsel gives Njal ? asks Hrut . 
He bade me seek you brothers , says Gunnar , and said he was sure that he and you would look at the matter in the same light . 
He wishes then , says Hrut , that I should say what I think for kinship's sake and so it shall be . 
Thou shalt challenge Gizur the White to combat on the island , if they do not leave the whole award to thee but Kolskegg shall challenge Geir the Priest . 
Gunnar went home to his booth and told Njal . 
Just what I looked for , said Njal . 
But where is that scoundrel ? says Gizur , who has thus lied . 
He lies sick up at our booth , says Otkell . 
May he never rise from his bed , says Gizur . 
Now we must all go to see Gunnar , and offer him the right to make his own award but I know not whether he will take that now . 
Many men spoke ill of Skamkell , and he lay sick all through the Thing . 
Gizur the White came first , and after a while he spoke and said , This is our offer that thou , Gunnar , makest thine own award in this suit . 
Then , says Gunnar , it was no doubt far from thy counsel that I was summoned . 
I gave no such counsel , says Gizur , neither I nor Geir . 
Then thou must clear thyself of this charge by fitting proof . 
What proof dost thou ask ? says Gizur . 
That thou takest an oath , says Gunnar . 
That I will do , says Gizur , if thou wilt take the award into thine own hands . 
That was the offer I made a while ago , says Gunnar but now , methinks , I have a greater matter to pass judgment on . 
It will not be right to refuse to make thine own award , said Njal for the greater the matter , the greater the honour in making it . 
That shall never be , said Gunnar , so long as I live but he shall have Skamkell's friendship on that he has long leant . 
Well , answers Gizur , we will close with thee in this matter , though thou alone layest down the terms . 
That is wholesome counsel , said Gizur and so he shall do . 
So Gunnar had the greatest honour from that suit , and afterwards men rode home from the Thing . 
Now Gunnar sits in his house at home , and so things are quiet for a while . 
OF RUNOLF , THE SON OF WOLF AURPRIEST There was a man named Runolf , the son of Wolf Aurpriest , he kept house at the Dale , east of Markfleet . 
He was Otkell's guest once when he rode from the Thing . 
Otkell gave him an ox , all black , without a spot of white , nine winters old . 
Runolf often sent men to him and put him in mind that he ought to come and he always said he would come , but never went . 
There was an Easterling staying with Otkell , whose name was Audulf he had set his heart on Signy , Otkell's daughter . 
Audulf was a tall man in growth , and strong . 
Skamkell and his two brothers , and Audulf and three men more , went along with Otkell . 
Otkell rode one of the dun horses , but the other ran loose by his side . 
They shaped their course east towards Markfleet and now Otkell gallops ahead , and now the horses race against each other , and they break away from the path up towards the Fleetlithe . 
Now , it must be told how Otkell rides faster than he would . 
Just then Otkell's companions rode up . 
Ye may see , all of you , says Gunnar , that thou hast drawn my blood , and it is unworthy to go on so . 
First thou hast summoned me , but now thou treadest me under foot , and ridest over me . 
Skamkell said , Well it was no worse , master , but thou wast not one whit less wroth at the Thing , when thou tookest the selfdoom and clutchedst thy bill . 
Gunnar said , When we two next meet thou shalt see the bill . 
Then Gunnar told it to his neighbours , and there was little talk about it at first . 
Otkell comes east to the Dale , and they get a hearty welcome there , and sit there a week . 
Skamkell told Runolf all about their meeting with Gunnar , and how it had gone off and one man happened to ask how Gunnar behaved . 
Why , said Skamkell , if it were a low born man it would have been said that he had wept . 
Now it seems to me best when ye wish to go home that I should go with you , for Gunnar will do me no harm . 
I will not have that , says Otkell but I will ride across the Fleet lower down . 
Runolf gave Otkell good gifts , and said they should not see one another again . 
Otkell bade him then to bear his sons in mind if things turned out so . 
THE FIGHT AT RANGRIVER Now we must take up the story , and say that Gunnar was out of doors at Lithend , and sees his shepherd galloping up to the yard . 
Gunnar said , That must be Otkell . 
We must not be word sick , says Gunnar , but from this day forth thou shall do no other work than what thou choosest for thyself . 
Shall I say aught of this to Kolskegg thy brother ? asked the shepherd . 
Go thou and sleep , says Gunnar I will tell Kolskegg . 
She went up to him and said Wrathful art thou now , my son , and never saw I thee thus before . 
Ye speak loud , she says , but yet the bill gave a louder sound when Gunnar went out . 
Kolskegg heard what she said , and spoke , This betokens no small tidings . 
That is well , says Hallgerda , now they will soon prove whether he goes away from them weeping . 
Kolskegg takes his weapons and seeks him a horse , and rides after Gunnar as fast as he could . 
Gunnar rides across Acretongue , and so to Geilastofna and thence to Rangriver , and down the stream to the ford at Hof . 
There were some women at the milking post there . 
Gunnar jumped off his horse and tied him up . 
By this time the others were riding up towards him there were flat stones covered with mud in the path that led down to the ford . 
Then they all of them sprang off their horses' backs and made towards Gunnar . 
Do not thou come on , says Gunnar thee last of all would I harm but I will spare no one if I have to fight for my life . 
That I cannot do , says Hallbjorn thou wilt strive to kill my brother for all that , and it is a shame if I sit idly by . 
And as he said this he thrust at Gunnar with a great spear which he held in both hands . 
Gunnar threw his shield before the blow , but Hallbjorn pierced the shield through . 
Skamkell ran behind Gunnar's back and makes a blow at him with a great axe . 
Gunnar gives another thrust with his bill , and through Skamkell , and lifts him up and casts him down in the muddy path on his head . 
Audulf the Easterling snatches up a spear and launches it at Gunnar . 
Otkell smites at Gunnar with his sword , and aims at his leg just below the knee , but Gunnar leapt up into the air and he misses him . 
Then Gunnar thrusts at him the bill and the blow goes through him . 
Then Kolskegg comes up , and rushes at once at Hallkell and dealt him his death blow with his short sword . 
There and then they slay eight men . 
A woman who saw all this , ran home and told Mord , and besought him to part them . 
They alone will be there , he says , of whom I care not though they slay one another . 
Thou canst not mean to say that , she says , for thy kinsman Gunnar , and thy friend Otkell will be there . 
Baggage , that thou art , he says , thou art always chattering , and so he lay still in doors while they fought . 
Gunnar and Kolskegg rode home after this work , and they rode hard up along the river bank , and Gunnar leapt off his horse and came down on his feet . 
Then Kolskegg said , Hard now thou ridest , brother ! Ay , said Gunnar , that was what Skamkell said when he uttered those very words when they rode over me . 
Well , thou hast avenged that now , says Kolskegg . 
This shews that the shields were oblong , running down to a point . 
NJAL'S ADVICE TO GUNNAR Now those tidings are heard far and wide , and many said that they thought they had not happened before it was likely . 
Gunnar rode to Bergthorsknoll and told Njal of these deeds . 
Njal said , Thou hast done great things , but thou hast been sorely tried . 
How will it now go henceforth ? says Gunnar . 
Wilt thou that I tell thee what hath not yet come to pass ? asks Njal . 
Thou wilt ride to the Thing , and thou wilt abide by my counsel and get the greatest honour from this matter . 
This will be the beginning of thy manslayings . 
But give me some cunning counsel , says Gunnar . 
Gunnar said , I should have thought there was more risk of that with others than with me . 
Gunnar said , Dost thou know what will be thine own death ? I know it , says Njal . 
That , says Njal , which all would be the last to think . 
After that Gunnar rode home . 
A man was sent to Gizur the White and Geir the Priest , for they had the blood feud after Otkell . 
Then they had a meeting , and had a talk about what was to be done and they were of one mind that the quarrel should be followed up at law . 
Then some one was sought who would take the suit up , but no one was ready to do that . 
After that they drew lots , and Geir the Priest drew the lot to take up the suit . 
After that they gave lawful notice and summoned nine neighbours to bear witness in the suit . 
They were told that Gunnar was at home with about thirty men then Geir the Priest asked whether Gizur would ride against him with one hundred men . 
I will not do that , says he , though the balance of force is great on our side . 
After that they rode back home . 
The news that the suit was set on foot was spread all over the country , and the saying ran that the Thing would be very noisy and stormy . 
GUNNAR AND GEIR THE PRIEST STRIVE AT THE THING There was a man named Skapti . 
He was the son of Thorod . 
That father and son were great chiefs , and very well skilled in law . 
Thorod was thought to be rather crafty and guileful . 
They stood by Gizur the White in every quarrel . 
As for the Lithemen and the dwellers by Rangriver , they came in a great body to the Thing . 
Gunnar was so beloved that all said with one voice that they would back him . 
Now they all come to the Thing and fit up their booths . 
In company with Gizur the White were these chiefs Skapti Thorod's son , Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , Oddi of Kidberg , and Halldor Ornolf's son . 
Then , too , he laid a suit of manslaughter against Kolskegg for the slaying of Hallkell . 
And when he had given due notice of all his suits of manslaughter it was said that he spoke well . 
He asked , too , in what Quarter court the suits lay , and in what house in the district the defendants dwelt . 
After that men went away from the Hill of Laws , and so the Thing goes on till the day when the courts were to be set to try suits . 
Then either side gathered their men together in great strength . 
Geir the Priest and Gizur the White stood at the court of the men of Rangriver looking north , and Gunnar and Njal stood looking south towards the court . 
Geir the Priest bade Gunnar to listen to his oath , and then he took the oath , and afterwards declared his suit . 
After that they uttered their finding in the suit as to Otkell , and brought in Gunnar as truly guilty of killing him . 
Then Geir the Priest called on Gunnar for his defence , and took witness of all the steps in the suit which had been proved . 
Then Gunnar , in his turn , called on Geir the Priest to listen to his oath , and to the defence which he was about to bring forward in the suit . 
Besides , I will tell thee something else which I mean to do , says Gunnar . 
Then Njal said , Things must not take this turn , for the only end of it will be that this strife will be carried to the uttermost . 
Each of you , as it seems to me , has much on his side . 
Thou too , Geir the Priest , shalt know that this suit of outlawry which hangs over thee shall not fall to the ground if thou wilt not listen to my words . 
Thorod the Priest said , It seems to us as though the most peaceful way would be that a settlement and atonement were come to in the suit . 
The award was that Skamkell should be unatoned . 
Then Geir the Priest and Gizur the White went up and gave Gunnar pledges that they would keep the peace in good faith . 
Gunnar rode home from the Thing , and thanked men for their help , and gave gifts to many , and got the greatest honour from the suit . 
Now Gunnar sits at home in his honour . 
Thorod's mother was Thorvor , she was daughter of Thormod Skapti's son , son of Oleif the Broad , son of Oliver Barncarle . 
His wife's name was Hallbera . 
The sons of Starkad and Hallbera were these Thorgeir and Bork and Thorkell . 
Hildigunna the Leech was their sister . 
They were very proud men in temper , hard hearted and unkind . 
There was a man named Egil he was a son of Kol , who took land as a settler between Storlek and Reydwater . 
The brother of Egil was Aunund of Witchwood , father of Hall the Strong , who was at the slaying of Holt Thorir with the sons of Kettle the Smooth tongued . 
Egil kept house at Sandgil his sons were these Kol , and Ottar , and Hauk . 
Their mother's name was Steinvor she was Starkad's sister . 
Egil's sons were tall and strifeful they were most unfair men . 
They were always on one side with Starkad's sons . 
Their sister was Gudruna Nightsun , and she was the bestbred of women . 
Egil had taken into his house two Easterlings the one's name was Thorir and the other's Thorgrim . 
They were not long come out hither for the first time , and were wealthy and beloved by their friends they were well skilled in arms , too , and dauntless in everything . 
Starkad had a good horse of chesnut hue , and it was thought that no horse was his match in fight . 
Once it happened that these brothers from Sandgil were away under the Threecorner . 
They had much gossip about all the householders in the Fleetlithe , and they fell at last to asking whether there was any one that would fight a horse against them . 
Name him , they say . 
Gunnar has a brown horse , she says , and he will dare to fight his horse against you , and against any one else . 
Ye will fare much worse , she says and so there arose out of this the greatest strife between them . 
Then Starkad said , My will is that ye try your hands on Gunnar last of all for ye will find it hard work to go against his good luck . 
Thou wilt give us leave , though , to offer him a horsefight ? I will give you leave , if ye play him no trick . 
They said they would be sure to do what their father said . 
We are told that thou hast a good horse , and we wish to challenge thee to a horse fight . 
Small stories can go about my horse , says Gunnar he is young and untried in every way . 
But still thou wilt be good enough to have the fight , for Hildigunna guessed that thou wouldest be easy in matching thy horse . 
How came ye to talk about that ? says Gunnar . 
There were some men , say they , who were sure that no one would dare to fight his horse with ours . 
I would dare to fight him , says Gunnar but I think that was spitefully said . 
Shall we look upon the match as made , then ? they asked . 
In a word , I shall do then just as ye do first . 
Starkad asked how their journey had gone off they said that Gunnar had made their going good . 
It will often be found , says Hildigunna , that Gunnar is slow to be drawn into quarrels , but a hard hitter if he cannot avoid them . 
Will my bane perhaps come out of it ? asks Gunnar . 
She was daughter of Hroald the Red and Hildigunna Thorstein Titling's daughter . 
The mother of Hildigunna was Aud Eyvind Karf's daughter , the sister of Modolf the Wise of Mosfell , from whom the Modylfings are sprung . 
Then she sent a man to her mother , and bade her choose whether it should be called Glum or Hauskuld . 
She bade call it Hauskuld . 
So that name was given to the boy . 
Gunnar and Hallgerda had two sons , the one's name was Hogni and the other's Grani . 
Hogni was a brave man of few words , distrustful and slow to believe , but truthful . 
Now men ride to the horse fight , and a very great crowd is gathered together there . 
Gunnar was there and his brothers , and the sons of Sigfus . 
Njal and all his sons . 
There too was come Starkad and his sons , and Egil and his sons , and they said to Gunnar that now they would lead the horses together . 
Gunnar said , That was well . 
Skarphedinn said , Wilt thou that I drive thy horse , kinsman Gunnar ? I will not have that , says Gunnar . 
It wouldn't be amiss though , says Skarphedinn we are hot headed on both sides . 
After that the horses were led together Gunnar busked him to drive his horse , but Skarphedinn led him out . 
Gunnar was in a red kirtle , and had about his loins a broad belt , and a great riding rod in his hand . 
Then the horses ran at one another , and bit each other long , so that there was no need for any one to touch them , and that was the greatest sport . 
Then Thorgeir and Kol made up their minds that they would push their horse forward just as the horses rushed together , and see if Gunnar would fall before him . 
Now the horses ran at one another again , and both Thorgeir and Kol ran alongside their horses' flank . 
Then they spring up and rush at Gunnar . 
Gunnar swings himself free and seizes Kol , casts him down on the field , so that he lies senseless . 
Thorgeir Starkad's son smote Gunnar's horse such a blow that one of his eyes started out . 
So Kolskegg cut the head off the horse . 
Then Thorgeir got on his feet and took his weapons , and wanted to fly at Gunnar , but that was stopped , and there was a great throng and crush . 
This wearies me Worthier is it far for men Weapons red with gore to stain I for one would sooner tame Hunger huge of cub of wolf . 
Gunnar was still , so that one man held him , and spoke no ill words . 
Kolskegg said , Gunnar has before now stood too fast , than that he should have fallen for words alone , and so it will be again . 
Now men ride away from the horse field , every one to his home . 
They make no attack on Gunnar , and so that halfyear passed away . 
He gave him much good counsel beside , and they agreed that there should be the greatest friendship between them . 
OF ASGRIM AND WOLF UGGIS' SON Asgrim Ellidagrim's son had a suit to follow up at the Thing against Wolf Uggis' son . 
It was a matter of inheritance . 
And now they have this as their bar . 
But , says Wolf , this quarrel is not one between thee and me . 
Still it shall be as good as though it were , says Gunnar . 
And the end of the suit was , that Wolf had to pay down all the money . 
Then Asgrim said to Gunnar , I will ask thee to come and see me this summer , and I will ever be with thee in lawsuits , and never against thee . 
Gunnar rides home from the Thing , and a little while after he and Njal met . 
Gunnar said so it should be , and told him that Asgrim had asked him to pay him a visit , and I mean to go now this harvest . 
So they settled that among themselves . 
Shall we say anything about it to Njal's sons ? said Kolskegg . 
No , says Gunnar they shall fall into no quarrels for me . 
AN ATTACK AGAINST GUNNAR AGREED ON They rode three together , Gunnar and his brothers . 
Gunnar had the bill and his sword , Oliver's gift but Kolskegg had his short sword Hjort , too , had proper weapons . 
Now they rode to Tongue , and Asgrim gave them a hearty welcome , and they were there some while . 
At last they gave it out that they meant to go home there and then . 
Asgrim gave them good gifts , and offered to ride east with them , but Gunnar said there was no need of any such thing and so he did not go . 
Sigurd Swinehead was the name of a man who dwelt by Thurso water . 
How many men shall we need to have to lie in wait for him ? says Starkad . 
Weak men shall be as nothing before him , he says and it is not safe to have fewer than thirty men . 
Where shall we lie in wait ? By Knafaholes , he says there he will not see us before he comes on us . 
Go thou to Sandgil and tell Egil that fifteen of them must busk themselves thence , and now other fifteen will go hence to Knafaholes . 
Thorgeir said to Hildigunna , This hand shall show thee Gunnar dead this very night . 
Nay , but I guess , says she , that thou wilt hang thy head after ye two meet . 
So those four , father and sons , fare away from the Threecorner , and eleven men besides , and they fared to Knafaholes , and lay in wait there . 
How many shall we fare in all ? says Egil . 
Fifteen , reckoning me , he says . 
Kol said , Now I mean to try my hand on Kolskegg . 
Then I think thou meanest to have a good deal on thy hands , says Sigurd . 
Egil begged his Easterlings to fare with him . 
They said they had no quarrel with Gunnar and besides , says Thorir , ye seem to need much help here , when a crowd of men shall go against three men . 
Then Egil went away and was wroth . 
I will go , he says , with thy husband , and neither of us two shall come back . 
After that he went to Thorgrim his messmate , and said , Take thou now the keys of my chests for I shall never unlock them again . 
I bid thee take for thine own whatever of our goods thou wilt but sail away from Iceland , and do not think of revenge for me . 
But if thou dost not leave the land , it will be thy death . 
So the Easterling joined himself to their band . 
He fell fast asleep , and struggled much as he slumbered . 
Then Kolskegg said , Gunnar dreams now . 
But Hjort said , I would like to wake him . 
That shall not be , said Kolskegg , but he shall dream his dream out . 
Gunnar lay , a very long while , and threw off his shield from him , and he grew very warm . 
Tell us thy dream , says Kolskegg . 
This , at least , I long to say , Kite with wolf shall fight for marrow Ill I dreamt with wandering thought . 
Then I took my sword , and I smote with it with one hand , but thrust at them with my bill with the other . 
Shield myself then I did not , and methought then I knew not what shielded me . 
Now my counsel is , brother Hjort , that thou ridest back west to Tongue . 
I will not do that , says Hjort though I know my death is sure , I will stand by thee still . 
Then they rode and came east by Knafaholes , and Kolskegg said , Seest thou , kinsman ! Many spears stand up by the holes , and men with weapons . 
It does not take me unawares , says Gunnar , that my dream comes true . 
What is best to be done now ? says Kolskegg I guess thou wilt not run away from them . 
They shall not have that to jeer about , says Gunnar , but we will ride on down to the ness by Rangriver there is some vantage ground there . 
Ocean's fire , a periphrasis for gold . 
The whole line is a periphrasis for bountiful chief . 
THE SLAYING OF HJORT AND FOURTEEN MEN After that Starkad egged on his men , and then they turn down upon them into the ness . 
Sigurd Swinehead came first and had a red targe , but in his other hand he held a cutlass . 
Kolskegg cast a stone and struck the yeoman on the head , and that was his deathblow . 
Then Starkad said , 'Twill never answer our end that he should use his bow , but let us come on well and stoutly . 
There is long the hardest fight , but still Gunnar and Kolskegg slew man after man . 
Then Thorgeir , Starkad's son , said , I vowed to bring Hildigunna thy head , Gunnar . 
wreatheth , Closer come to crash of spear . 
So Bork and Thorkel both ran forward and were quicker than Thorgeir . 
That we can soon prove , says Kolskegg . 
So he stood a while on his other leg and looked at the stump . 
Thou needest not to look at it , said Kolskegg 'tis even as thou seest , the leg is off . 
Then Kol fell down dead . 
Then Starkad said , Wretch that thou art indeed , Thorir Easterling , when thou sittest by but thy host , and father in law Egil , is slain . 
Then the Easterling sprung up and was very wroth . 
Hjort had been the death of two men , and the Easterling leapt on him and smote him full on the breast . 
Then Hjort fell down dead on the spot . 
Gunnar sees this and was swift to smite at the Easterling , and cuts him asunder at the waist . 
A little while after Gunnar hurls the bill at Bork , and struck him in the middle , and the bill went through him and stuck in the ground . 
Then Kolskegg cut off Hauk Egil's son's head , and Gunnar smites off Otter's hand at the elbow joint . 
Then Starkad said , Let us fly now . 
Then Gunnar ran after Starkad and Thorgeir , and gave them each a wound . 
After that they parted and Gunnar and his brothers had then wounded many men who got away from the field , but fourteen lost their lives , and Hjort the fifteenth . 
Gunnar brought Hjort home , laid out on his shield , and he was buried in a cairn there . 
Many men grieved for him , for he had many dear friends . 
Starkad came home , too , and Hildigunna dressed his wounds and Thorgeir's , and said , Ye would have given a great deal not to have fallen out with Gunnar . 
So we would , says Starkad . 
ENDNOTES Rhine's fire , a periphrasis for gold . 
I will give thee , she says , Gudruna my daughter to wife , and all my goods into the bargain . 
I knew not , he said , that thou wouldest pay such a long price . 
After that they struck the bargain that he shall have her , and the wedding feast was to be the next summer . 
Now Gunnar rides to Bergthorsknoll , and Kolskegg with him . 
Njal was out of doors and his sons , and they went to meet Gunnar and gave them a hearty welcome . 
After that they fell a talking , and Gunnar said , Hither am I come to seek good counsel and help at thy hand . 
That is thy due , said Njal . 
Thorgeir has got my kinswoman Thorfinna with child , and I will hand over to thee the suit for seduction . 
Another suit of outlawry against Starkad I hand over also to thee , for having hewn trees in my wood on the Threecorner ridge . 
Both these suits shalt thou take up . 
Thou shalt also go to see Tyrfing of Berianess , and he must hand over to thee a suit against Aunund of Witchwood , who has the blood feud after his brother Egil . 
Then first of all Gunnar rode home but a few nights after Njal's sons and Gunnar rode thither where the bodies were , and dug them up that were buried there . 
Then Gunnar summoned them all as outlaws for assault and treachery , and rode home after that . 
OF VALGARD AND MORD That same harvest Valgard the Guileful came out to Iceland , and fared home to Hof . 
Valgard said that must be Njal's counsel , and yet everything had not come out yet which he was likely to have taught him . 
Then Thorgeir begged those kinsmen for help and backing , but they held out a long while , and at last asked for , and got a large sum of money . 
So the day after they rode twelve of them together and came to Mossfell . 
They ride home , and after that they ride to the wedding and there was a crowd of guests to meet them , and it went off well . 
Thorkatla went home with Mord and took the housekeeping in hand , but Valgard went abroad again the next summer . 
This beginning of the suit was heard of at Lithend and then Gunnar rides to see Njal , and told him , and asked what he wished them to do next . 
Thou shalt also summon Thorgeir for the suit of seduction , and Aunund at the suit of Tyrfing . 
Gunnar now did in everything as Njal gave him counsel . 
This men thought a strange beginning of suits , and now these matters come before the Thing . 
Gunnar rides to the Thing , and Njal's sons and the sons of Sigfus . 
So they gathered together in a great band from the west . 
Mord rode to the Thing and Runolf of the DaIe , and those under the Threecorner , and Aunund of Witchwood . 
But when they come to the Thing , they join them in one company with Gizur the White and Geir the Priest . 
Gunnar went to meet his cousins , and Olaf and his men greeted him well . 
Then Olaf said , 'Tis worth much to see how close Njal stands by thee in all counsel . 
Gunnar said he should never be able to repay that , but then he begged them for help and they said that was his due . 
Now the suits on both sides came before the court , and each pleads his cause . 
Heardest thou , asks Njal , how Gunnar offered him full atonement ? Then I gave back Gunnar his right to do all lawful deeds . 
Yes , says Mord , but neither befell Gunnar . 
Gunnar's brothers , said Njal , Kolskegg and Hjort , were there , and one of them got his death and the other a flesh wound . 
Thou speakest nothing but what is law , says Mord , though it is hard to abide by it . 
Then Hiallti Skeggi's son of Thursodale , stood forth and said . 
I have had no share in any of your lawsuits but I wish to know whether thou wilt do something , Gunnar , for the sake of my words and friendship . 
What askest thou ? says Gunnar . 
This , he says , that ye lay down the whole suit to the award and judgment of good men and true . 
If I do so , said Gunnar , then thou shalt never be against me , whatever men I may have to deal with . 
I will give my word to that , says Hjallti . 
After that he tried his best with Gunnar's adversaries , and brought it about that they were all set at one again . 
And after that each side gave the other pledges of peace but for Thorgeir's wound came the suit for seduction , and for the hewing in the wood , Starkad's wound . 
Thorgeir's brothers were atoned for by half fines , but half fell away for the onslaught on Gunnar . 
Egil's slaying and Tyrfing's lawsuit were set off against each other . 
For Hjort's slaying , the slaying of Kol and of the Easterling were to come , and as for all the rest , they were atoned for with half fines . 
Njal was in this award , and Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , and Hjallti Skeggi's son . 
Njal had much money out at interest with Starkad , and at Sandgil too , and he gave it all to Gunnar to make up these fines . 
So Gunnar rides home from the Thing and sits there in peace , but still his adversaries envied him much for his honour . 
He had many friends among the best men , and was much beloved by his kinsmen . 
Once on a time Thorgeir Starkad's son had been to see his kinsman Mord . 
I will much increase thine honour if thou takest pains in this matter . 
It will always seem as though I were greedy of gain , but so it must be . 
Yet it will be hard to take care that thou mayest not seem to be a truce breaker , or peace breaker , and yet carry out thy point . 
He has taken up this suit for his mother , but this too is Gunnar's counsel , to pay in goods and not to let the land go . 
We must wait till this comes about , and then declare that he has broken the settlement made with you . 
He has also taken a cornfield from Thorgeir Otkell's son , and so broken the settlement with him too . 
Then he has slain twice in the same stock , but thou shalt fly from the fight . 
And if this is to drag him to his death he will break the settlement afterwards , and so we may wait till then . 
After that Thorgeir goes home and tells his father secretly . 
Then they agreed among themselves that they should work out this plot by stealth . 
Thorgeir took witness also , that Gunnar was breaking the settlement made between them . 
After that the Thing was broken up , and so the next year wore away . 
Those namesakes were always meeting , and there was the greatest friendship between them . 
Death will come to me when it will come , says Gunnar , wherever I may be , if that is my fate . 
Then they left off talking about it . 
About autumn , Gunnar gave out that they would work one week there at home , and the next down in the isles , and so make an end of their hay making . 
At the same time , he let it be known that every man would have to leave the house , save himself and the women . 
They have broken the peace , not we , says Thorgeir Starkad's son . 
Gunnar took away from thee thy cornfield and he has taken Moeidsknoll from my father and me . 
After that Thorgeir rode home . 
After that Thorgeir of the Threecorner busked him with eleven men he rides up on the ridge and there waits for his namesake . 
And now Gunnar is at home in his house , and those namesakes ride into a wood hard by . 
There such a drowsiness came over them that they could do naught else but sleep . 
So they hung their shields up in the boughs , and tethered their horses , and laid their weapons by their sides . 
Njal was that night up in Thorolfsfell , and could not sleep at all , but went out and in by turns . 
A little after , a man rode up to the door and got off his horse's back and went in , and there was come the shepherd of Thorhilda and her husband . 
Didst thou find the sheep ? she asked . 
I found what might be more worth , said he . 
What was that ? asked Njal . 
I found twenty four men up in the wood yonder they had tethered their horses , but slept themselves . 
Their shields they had hung up in the boughs . 
He said at once he would go . 
This thing hath well come to pass , so that they shall gain nothing by this journey , but lose much . 
The shepherd set off and told Gunnar as plainly as he could the whole story . 
Then Gunnar rode to Gritwater and summoned men to him . 
Now it is to be told of Njal how he rides to meet these namesakes . 
Unwarily ye lie here , he says , or for what end shall this journey have been made ? And Gunnar is not a man to be trifled with . 
But if the truth must be told then , this is the greatest treason . 
They bestirred them at once , for they were in great fear , and took their weapons , and mounted their horses and galloped home under the Threecorner . 
Njal fared to meet Gunnar and bade him not to break up his company . 
This money I will take into my keeping , and so lay it out that it may be ready to thy hand when thou hast need of it . 
They began to offer terms for themselves , and were full of dread , and bade Njal to come between them with an offer of atonement . 
Njal said that could only be if there were no guile behind . 
Then they begged him to have a share in the award , and said they would hold to what he awarded . 
Njal said he would make no award unless it were at the Thing , and unless the best men were by and they agreed to that . 
Then NjaI came between them , so that they gave each other pledges of peace and atonement . 
Njal was to utter the award , and to name as his fellows those whom he chose . 
A little while after those namesakes met Mord Valgard's son , and Mord blamed them much for having laid the matter in Njal's hands , when he was Gunnar's great friend . 
He said that would turn out ill for them . 
Now men ride to the Althing after their wont , and now both sides are at the Thing . 
Njal begged for a hearing , and asked all the best men who were come thither , what right at law they thought Gunnar had against those namesakes for their treason . 
They said they thought such a man had great right on his side . 
Many will say this , said Mord , that it was not without a cause when Gunnar broke the settlement made with those namesakes . 
Then Njal tells them that Gunnar had offered land for Moeidsknoll , or other goods . 
Then those namesakes thought they had been beguiled by Mord , and scolded him much , and said that this fine was all his doing . 
Njal named twelve men as judges in the suit , and then every man paid a hundred in silver who had gone out , but each of those namesakes two hundred . 
Njal took this money into his keeping but either side gave the other pledges of peace , and Njal gave out the terms . 
Then Gunnar rode from the Thing west to the Dales , till he came to Hjardarholt , and Olaf the Peacock gave him a hearty welcome . 
There he sat half a month , and rode far and wide about the Dales , and all welcomed him with joyful hands . 
This hound's name is Sam . 
After that he spoke to the hound , Now shalt thou follow Gunnar , and do him all the service thou canst . 
The hound went at once to Gunnar and laid himself down at his feet . 
Olaf bade Gunnar to be ware of himself , and said he had many enviers , For now thou art thought to be a famous man throughout all the land . 
Gunnar thanked him for his gifts and good counsel , and rode home . 
Now Gunnar sits at home for sometime , and all is quiet . 
MORD'S COUNSEL A little after , those namesakes and Mord met , and they were not at all of one mind . 
They thought they had lost much goods for Mord's sake , but had got nothing in return and they bade him set on foot some other plot which might do Gunnar harm . 
Mord said so it should be . 
So they settled this plan among them that it should be brought about . 
Thorgeir began to turn his steps towards Ormilda , and Gunnar thought that ill , and great dislike arose between them . 
So the winter wore away . 
Now comes the summer , and their secret meetings went on oftener than before . 
They bestirred them at once , and fare thence twelve together , but when they came to Kirkby there they found thirteen men waiting for them . 
Then they made up their minds to ride down to Rangriver and lie in wait there for Gunnar . 
But when Gunnar rode up from the isles , Kolskegg rode with him . 
Gunnar had his bow and his arrows and his bill . 
Kolskegg had his short sword and weapons to match . 
THE SLAYING OF THORGEIR OTKELL'S SON That token happened as Gunnar and his brother rode up towards Rangriver , that much blood burst out on the bill . 
Kolskegg asked what that might mean . 
Gunnar says , If such tokens took place in other lands , it was called wound drops , and Master Oliver told me also that this only happened before great fights . 
So they rode on till they saw men sitting by the river on the other side , and they had tethered their horses . 
Gunnar said , Now we have an ambush . 
The others saw that and turned at once towards them . 
Then Thorgeir Otkell's son spoke and said , This is no use let us make for him as hard as we can . 
They did so , and first went Aunund the Fair , Thorgeir's kinsman . 
Gunnar hurled the bill at him , and it fell on his shield and clove it in twain , but the bill rushed through Aunund . 
Augmund Shockhead rushed at Gunnar behind his back . 
Kolskegg saw that and cut off at once both Augmund's legs from under him , and hurled him out into Rangriver , and he was drowned there and then . 
Then a hard battle arose Gunnar cut with one hand and thrust with the other . 
Kolskegg slew some men and wounded many . 
Thorgeir Starkad's son called out to his namesake , It looks very little as though thou hadst a father to avenge . 
True it is , he answers , that I do not make much way , but yet thou hast not followed in my footsteps still I will not bear thy reproaches . 
With that he rushes at Gunnar in great wrath , and thrust his spear through his shield , and so on through his arm . 
Gunnar gave the shield such a sharp twist that the spearhead broke short off at the socket . 
Gunnar sees that another man was come within reach of his sword , and he smites at him and deals him his death blow . 
Then Thorgeir Starkad's son said , Let us fly now no victory will be fated to us this time . 
So they all turned and fled from the field . 
Let us follow them up now , says Kolskegg and take thou thy bow and arrows , and thou wilt come within bowshot of Thorgeir Starkad's son . 
Our purses will be emptied , says Gunnar , by the time that these are atoned for who now lie here dead . 
Thou wilt never lack money , says Kolskegg but Thorgeir will never leave off before he compasses thy death . 
that skim Sea king's fields , more good as he , Shedding wounds' red stream , must stand In my way ere I shall wince . 
I , the golden armlets' warder , Snakelike twined around my wrist , Ne'er shall shun a foeman's faulchion Flashing bright in din of fight . 
He , and a few more as good as he , says Gunnar , must stand in my path ere I am afraid of them . 
After that they ride home and tell the tidings . 
Hallgerda was well pleased to hear them , and praised the deed much . 
Rannveig said , May be the deed is good but somehow , she says , I feel too downcast about it to think that good can come of it . 
ENDNOTES Water skates , a periphrasis for ships . 
OF THE SUITS FOR MANSLAUGHTER AT THE THING These tidings were spread far and wide , and Thorgeir's death was a great grief to many a man . 
Gizur the White and his men rode to the spot and gave notice of the manslaughter , and called the neighbours on the inquest to the Thing . 
Then they rode home west . 
Njal and Gunnar met and talked about the battle . 
Then Njal said to Gunnar , Now be ware of thyself . 
Nor do I mean to break it in any way , says Gunnar , but still I shall need thy help at the Thing . 
I will hold to my faithfulness to thee , said Njal , till my death day . 
Now the Thing draws near and each side gather a great company and it is a matter of much talk at the Thing how these suits will end . 
I say on this charge he ought to become a convicted outlaw , not to be fed , not to be forwarded , not to be helped or harboured in any need . 
I say that his goods are forfeited , half to me and half to the men of the Quarter , whose right it is by law to seize the goods of outlaws . 
I give notice of this charge in the Quarter Court , into which this suit ought by law to come . 
I give this lawful notice in the hearing of all men at the Hill of Laws . 
I give notice now of this suit , and of full forfeiture and outlawry against Gunnar Hamond's son . 
After that he gave notice of this declaration as he had done of the first . 
Then he asked in what Quarter Court the suit lay , and in what house in the district the defendant dwelt . 
When that was over , men left the Hill of Laws , and all said that he spoke well . 
Gunnar kept himself well in hand and said little or nothing . 
Now the Thing wears away till the day when the courts were to be set . 
Then Gunnar stood looking south by the court of the men of Rangriver , and his men with him . 
After that he took his oath , and then he brought forward the suit in the same shape before the court , as he had given notice of it before . 
Then he made them bring forward witness of the notice , then he bade the neighbours on the inquest to take their seats , and called upon Gunnar to challenge the inquest . 
OF THE ATONEMENT Then Njal spoke and said , Now I can no longer sit still and take no part . 
Let us go to where the neighbours sit on the inquest . 
Then Njal called this a lawful defence to the suit , and said he would bring forward proof of it unless they gave over the suit to arbitration . 
Then many chiefs joined in praying for an atonement , and so it was brought about that twelve men should utter an award in the matter . 
Then either side went and handselled this settlement to the other . 
Afterwards the award was made , and the sum to be paid settled , and it was all to be paid down then and there at the Thing . 
Gunnar made no sign , as though he thought the terms of atonement were not good . 
He asked Njal for that money which he had handed over to him to keep . 
Njal had laid the money out at interest and paid it down all at once , and it just came to what Gunnar had to pay for himself . 
Gunnar said he had no mind to break the atonement , and he rides home and told them of the settlement . 
Rannveig said it was well that he fared abroad , for then they must find some one else to quarrel with . 
KOLSKEGG GOES ABROAD Thrain Sigfus' son said to his wife that he meant to fare abroad that summer . 
She said that was well . 
So he took his passage with Hogni the White . 
Gunnar took his passage with Arnfin of the Bay and Kolskegg was to go with him . 
Still they kept on asking their father to let them go , and the end of it was that he bade them go if they chose . 
By this time Gunnar's sons , Hogni and Grani , were grown up they were men of very different turn of mind . 
Grani had much of his mother's temper , but Hogni was kind and good . 
They ride down along Markfleet , and just then Gunnar's horse tripped and threw him off . 
I will not go away any whither , said Gunnar , and so I would thou shouldest do too . 
So they parted there and then . 
Gunnar rides home to Lithend , but Kolskegg rides to the ship , and goes abroad . 
Hallgerda was glad to see Gunnar when he came home , but his mother said little or nothing . 
How Gunnar sits at home that fall and winter , and had not many men with him . 
Now the winter leaves the farmyard . 
Olaf the Peacock asked Gunnar and Hallgerda to come and stay with him but as for the farm , to put it into the hands of his mother and his son Hogni . 
Gunnar thought that a good thing at first , and agreed to it , but when it came to the point he would not do it . 
Aunund of Witchwood and Thorgrim the Easterling of Sandgil . 
The Gizur spoke and said , I will make you all this offer , that we go out against Gunnar this summer and slay him . 
Men ride from the Thing , and Njal went to see Gunnar , and told him of his outlawry , and how an onslaught was planned against him . 
Methinks thou art the best of friends , says Gunnar thou makest me aware of what is meant . 
Now , says Njal , I would that Skarphedinn should come to thy house , and my son Hauskuld they will lay down their lives for thy life . 
I will not , says Gunnar , that thy sons should be slain for my sake , and thou hast a right to look for other things from me . 
All thy care will come to nothing , says Njal quarrels will turn thitherward where my sons are as soon as thou art dead and gone . 
Njal rode home , and gave his word to do that . 
It is said that Gunnar rode to all meetings of men , and to all lawful Things , and his foes never dared to fall on him . 
And so some time went on that he went about as a free and guiltless man . 
Great Rift , Almannagja The great volcanic rift , or geo , as it would be called in Orkney and Shetland , which bounds the plain of the Allthing on one side . 
Then Gizur the White and Geir the Priest rode east over the rivers as soon as ever they heard that , and so east across the sands to Hof . 
Then they sent word to Starkad under the Threecorner , and there they all met who were to fall on Gunnar , and took counsel how they might best bring it about . 
Then they set out east for Lithend , but sent to fetch Thorkell . 
There was a beaten sunk road , between fences , above the farm yard at Lithend , and there they halted with their band . 
Just then the hound sees that there are men before them , and he leaps on Thorkell and tears his belly open . 
Aunund of Witchwood smote the hound on the head with his axe , so that the blade sunk into the brain . 
The hound gave such a great howl that they thought it passing strange , and he fell down dead . 
Gunnar's hall was made all of wood , and roofed with beams above , and there were window slits under the beams that carried the roof , and they were fitted with shutters . 
Gunnar slept in a loft above the hall , and so did Hallgerda and his mother . 
But the rest sat them down on the ground . 
Thorgrim's feet slipped from under him , and he dropped his shield , and down he toppled from the roof . 
Then he goes to Gizur and his band as they sat on the ground . 
Then they made for the buildings . 
Gunnar shot out arrows at them , and made a stout defence , and they could get nothing done . 
So it went on for a while , then they took a rest , and made a second onslaught . 
Gunnar still shot out at them , and they could do nothing , and fell off the second time . 
Then Gizur the White said , Let us press on harder nothing comes of our onslaught . 
Then they made a third bout of it , and were long at it , and then they fell off again . 
His mother said , Do not so , my son nor rouse them again when they have already fallen off from the attack . 
Let us burn him house and all , said Mord . 
Some ropes lay there on the ground , and they were often used to strengthen the roof . 
So they took the ropes and all lent a hand to carry this out , and before Gunnar was aware of it , they had pulled the whole roof off the hall . 
Then Gunnar still shoots with his bow so that they could never come nigh him . 
Then Mord said again that they must burn the house over Gunnar's head . 
But Gizur said , I know not why thou wilt speak of that which no one else wishes , and that shall never be . 
Just then Thorbrand Thorleik's son , sprang up on the roof , and cuts asunder Gunnar's bowstring . 
Gunnar clutches the bill with both hands , and turns on him quickly and drives it through him , and hurls him down on the ground . 
Then up sprung Asbrand his brother . 
Gunnar had already wounded eight men and slain those twain . 
By that time Gunnar had got two wounds , and all men said that he never once winced either at wounds or death . 
Then Gunnar said to Hallgerda , Give me two locks of thy hair , and ye two , my mother and thou , twist them together into a bowstring for me . 
Does aught lie on it ? she says . 
My life lies on it he said for they will never come to close quarters with me if I can keep them off with my bow . 
Then Gunnar sang a song Each who hurts the gory javelin Hath some honour of his own , Now my helpmeet wimple hooded Hurries all my fame to earth . 
, Wends her hand as she is wont . 
Every one has something to boast of , says Gunnar , and I will ask thee no more for this . 
Thou behavest ill , said Rannveig , andthis shame shall long be had in mind . 
Gunnar made a stout and bold defence , and now wounds other eight men with such sore wounds that many lay at death's door . 
Gunnar keeps them all off until he fell worn out with toil . 
It must be forgiven thee , he says , to speak thus , for thou hast had a great loss . 
Then he gave orders that no man should spoil or rob anything there . 
After that they went away . 
Then Thorgeir Starkad's son said , We may not be in our house at home for the sons of Sigfus , unless thou Gizur or thou Geir be here south some little while . 
This shall be so , says Gizur , and they cast lots , and the lot fell on Geir to stay behind . 
he boasted that he had given Gunnar his death blow . 
Hroald was at the Point with his father . 
Thorgeir Starkad's son boasted of another wound which he had given to Gunnar . 
Gizur sat at home at Mossfell . 
Gunnar's slaying was heard of , and ill spoken of throughout the whole country , and his death was a great grief to many a man . 
ENDNOTES Thorgrim Easterling and Thorbrand . 
Frodi's flour , a periphrasis for gold . 
Sea's bright sunbeams , a periphrasis for gold . 
She was a sister of Thorwald the Scurvy , who was slain at Horsebeck in Grimsness . 
GUNNAR SINGS A SONG DEAD Njal could ill brook Gunnar's death , nor could the sons of Sigfus brook it either . 
They asked whether Njal thought they had any right to give notice of a suit of manslaughter for Gunnar , or to set the suit on foot . 
They cast a cairn over Gunnar , and made him sit upright in the cairn . 
Rannveig would not hear of his bill being buried in the cairn , but said he alone should have it as his own , who was ready to avenge Gunnar . 
So no one took the bill . 
She was so hard on Hallgerda , that she was on the point of killing her and she said that she had been the cause of her son's slaying . 
Now this token happened at Lithend , that the neat herd and the serving maid were driving cattle by Gunnar's cairn . 
They thought that he was merry , and that he was singing inside the cairn . 
They went home and told Rannveig , Gunnar's mother , of this token , but she bade them go and tell Njal . 
Then they went over to Bergthorsknoll and told Njal , but he made them tell it three times over . 
After that , he had a long talk all alone with Skarphedinn and Skarphedinn took his weapons and goes with them to Lithend . 
Rannveig and Hogni gave him a hearty welcome , and were very glad to see him . 
Rannveig asked him to stay there some time , and he said he would . 
He and Hogni were always together , at home and abroad . 
Now those two , Skarphedinn and Hogni , were out of doors one evening by Gunnar's cairn on the south side . 
The moon and stars were shining clear and bright , but every now and then the clouds drove over them . 
Then all at once they thought they saw the cairn standing open , and lo ! Gunnar had turned himself in the cairn and looked at the moon . 
They thought they saw four lights burning in the cairn , and none of them threw a shadow . 
They saw that Gunnar was merry , and he wore a joyful face . 
He sang a song , and so loud , that it might have been heard though they had been further off . 
After that the cairn was shut up again . 
Wouldst thou believe these tokens if Njal or I told them to thee ? says Skarphedinn . 
I would believe them , he says , if Njal told them , for it is said he never lies . 
I shall be able to bring nothing to pass , says Hogni , unless thou wilt stand by me . 
Now , says Skarphedinn , will I bear in mind how Gunnar behaved after the slaying of your kinsman Sigmund now I will yield you such help as I may . 
My father gave his word to Gunnar to do that whenever thou or thy mother had need of it . 
After that they go home to Lithend . 
I will fulfil thy counsel , says Hogni . 
After that they took their weapons when all men were in their beds . 
Hogni takes down the bill , and it gave a sharp ringing sound . 
Rather shalt thou now bear it , she answered , and avenge thy father for the bill has spoken of one man's death or more . 
Then Hogni went out , and told Skarphedinn all the words that his grandmother had spoken . 
After that they fare to the Point , and two ravens flew along with them all the way . 
They came to the Point while it was still night . 
Skarphedinn sprang up and said , Thou needest not to stand and think if it be really as it seems . 
Then Skarphedinn smites Tjorfi his deathblow . 
After that they left them there dead , and turn away thence under the Threecorner . 
Skarphedinn jumps up on the house and plucks the grass , and those who were inside the house thought it was cattle that had come on the roof . 
Starkad and Thorgeir took their weapons and upper clothing , and went out and round about the fence of the yard . 
But when Starkad sees Skarphedinn he was afraid , and wanted to turn back . 
Skarphedinn cut him down by the fence . 
Then Hogni comes against Thorgeir and slays him with the bill . 
Thence they went to Hof , and Mord was outside in the field , and begged for mercy , and offered them full atonement . 
And the like journey , says Skarphedinn , shalt thou also fare , or hand over to Hogni the right to make his own award , if he will take these terms . 
Geir the Priest dwelt in the Lithe till his deathday , and he is out of the story . 
Njal asked as a wife for Hogni Alfeida the daughter of Weatherlid the Skald , and she was given away to him . 
Their son was Ari , who sailed for Shetland , and took him a wife there from him is come Einar the Shetlander , one of the briskest and boldest of men . 
Hogni kept up his friendship with Njal , and he is now out of the story . 
OF KOLSKEGG HOW HE WAS BAPTIZED Now it is to be told of Kolskegg how he comes to Norway , and is in the Bay east that winter . 
But the summer after he fares east to Denmark , and bound himself to Sweyn Forkbeard the Dane king , and there he had great honour . 
One night he dreamt that a man came to him he was bright and glistening , and he thought he woke him up . 
He spoke , and said to him , Stand up and come with me . 
What wilt thou with me ? he asks . 
I will get thee a bride , and thou shalt be my knight . 
He thought he said yea to that , and after that he woke up . 
Then he went to a wizard and told him the dream , but he read it so that he should fare to southern lands and become God's knight . 
Kolskegg was baptized in Denmark , but still he could not rest there , but fared east to Russia , and was there one winter . 
, and there took service with the Emperor . 
OF THRAIN HOW HE SLEW KOL Now we must take up the story , and say how Thrain Sigfus' son came to Norway . 
They made the land north in Helgeland , and held on south to Drontheim , and so to Hlada . 
But as soon as Earl Hacon heard of that , he sent men to them , and would know what men were in the ship . 
They came back and told him who the men were . 
Then the earl sent for Thrain Sigfus' son , and he went to see him . 
The earl asked of what stock he might be . 
He said that he was Gunnar of Lithend's near kinsman . 
The earl said , That shall stand thee in good stead for I have seen many men from Iceland , but none his match . 
There was a man named Kol , he was a great sea rover . 
He was the son of Asmund Ashside , east out of Smoland . 
He lay east in the Gota Elf , and had five ships , and much force . 
, in the bight of the Bay , and came on Hallvard Soti unawares , and found him in a loft . 
Earl Hacon heard these tidings , and made them make Kol an outlaw over all his realm , and set a price upon his head . 
Once on a time it so happened that the earl began to speak thus , Too far off from us now is Gunnar of Lithend . 
He would slay my outlaw if he were here but now the Icelanders will slay him , and it is ill that he hath not fared to us . 
Then Thrain Sigfus' son answered , I am not Gunnar , but still I am near akin to him , and I will undertake this voyage . 
The earl said , I should be glad of that , and thou shalt be very well fitted out for the journey . 
After that his son Eric began to speak , and said , Your word , father , is good to many men , but fulfilling it is quite another thing . 
Thrain said , I will set out on this voyage , though it looks ugly . 
After that the earl gave him five ships , and all well trimmed and manned . 
Along with Thrain was Gunnar Lambi's son , and Lambi Sigurd's son . 
Gunnar was Thrain's brother's son , and had come to him young , and each loved the other much . 
After they were boun , Eric got them a pilot . 
Then they sailed south along the land but wherever they came to land , the earl allowed them to deal with whatever they needed as their own . 
So they held on east to Lodese , and then they heard that Kol was gone to Denmark . 
After that they busked them , and a fight arose and they fought long , so that neither side had the mastery . 
Then Kol sprang up on Thrain's ship , and cleared the gangways fast , and slays many men . 
He had a gilded helm . 
Now Thrain sees that this is no good , and now he eggs on his men to go along with him , but he himself goes first and meets Kol . 
Kol hews at him , and the blow fell on Thrain's shield , and cleft it down from top to bottom . 
Then Kol got a blow on the arm , from a stone and then down fell his sword . 
Thrain hews at Kol , and the stroke came on his leg so that it cut it off . 
After that they slew Kol , and Thrain cut off his head , and they threw the trunk overboard , but kept his head . 
They took much spoil , and then they held on north to Drontheim , and go to see the earl . 
The earl gave Thrain a hearty welcome , and he shewed the earl Kol's head , but the earl thanked him for that deed . 
Eric said it was worth more than words alone , and the earl said so it was , and bade them come along with him . 
They went thither , where the earl had made them make a good ship that was not made like a common long ship . 
It had a vulture's head , and was much carved and painted . 
Along with it shall go my friendship and my will is that thou stayest with me as long as thou wilt . 
He thanked him for his goodness , and said he had no longing to go to Iceland just yet . 
The earl had a journey to make to the marches of the land to meet the Swede king . 
Thrain went with him that summer , and was a shipmaster and steered the Vulture , and sailed so fast that few could keep up with him , and he was much envied . 
But it always came out that the earl laid great store on Gunnar , for he set down sternly all who tried Thrain's temper . 
The earl said that so it should be as he thought it suited him best and Thrain was with the earl . 
Then those tidings were heard from Iceland , which many thought great news , the death of Gunnar of Lithend . 
Then the earl would not that Thrain should fare out of Iceland , and so there he stayed with him . 
Hlada or Lada , and sometimes in the plural Ladir , was the old capital of Drontheim , before Nidaros the present Drontheim was founded . 
Drontheim was originally the name of the country round the firth of the same name , and is not used in the old sagas for a town . 
The country round the Christiania Firth , at the top of the Bay . 
A town in Sweden on the Gota Elf . 
At last they came to where was a great ground sea , and thought then they must be near land . 
So then Njal's sons asked Bard if he could tell at all to what land they were likely to be nearest . 
Many lands there are , said he , which we might hit with the weather we have had the Orkneys , or Scotland , or Ireland . 
Two nights after , they saw land on both boards , and a great surf running up in the firth . 
They cast anchor outside the breakers , and the wind began to fall and next morning it was calm . 
Then they see thirteen ships coming out to them . 
Then each side asked the other their names , and what their leaders were called . 
So the leaders of the chapmen told their names , and asked back who led that host . 
One called himself Gritgard , and the other Snowcolf , sons of Moldan of Duncansby in Scotland , kinsmen of Malcolm the Scot king . 
The will of the chapmen , answers Helgi , is to defend themselves . 
But the chapmen called out , Wretch that thou art to speak thus ! What defence can we make ? Lading is less than life . 
But Grim , he fell upon a plan to shout out to the Vikings , and would not let them hear the bad choice of the chapmen . 
Then Bard and Olaf said , Think ye not that these Icelanders will make game of you sluggards take rather your weapons and guard your goods . 
So they all seized their weapons , and bound themselves , one with another , never to give up so long as they had strength to fight . 
OF KARI SOLMUND'S SON Then the Vikings shot at them and the fight began , and the chapmen guard themselves well . 
Snowcolf sprang aboard and at Olaf , and thrust his spear through his body , but Grim thrust at Snowcolf with his spear , and so stoutly , that he fell overboard . 
Then Helgi turned to meet Grim , and they two drove down all the Vikings as they tried to board , and Njal's sons were ever where there was most need . 
Then the Vikings called out to the chapmen and bade them give up , but they said they would never yield . 
He asked , Who have here such an uneven game ? Helgi tells his name , and said that against them are Gritgard and Snowcolf . 
But who are your captains ? he asks . 
Helgi answered , Bard the Black , who lives , but the other , who is dead and gone , was called Olaf . 
Are ye men from Iceland ? says he . 
Sure enough we are , Helgi answers . 
He asked whose sons they were , and they told him , then he knew them and said , Well known names have ye all , father and sons both . 
Who art thou ? asks Helgi . 
My name is Kari , and I am Solmund's son . 
Whence comest thou ? says Helgi . 
Then thou art welcome , says Helgi , if thou wilt give us a little help . 
I'll give ye all the help ye need , says Kari but what do ye ask ? To fall on them , says Helgi . 
Kari says that so it shall be . 
Kari leaps nimbly backwards over a beam that lay athwart the ship , and Snowcolf smote the beam so that both edges of the sword were hidden . 
Gritgard hurled a spear at Kari , but Kari saw it and sprang up aloft , and the spear missed him . 
So they gave them all peace , but took all their goods . 
After that they ran all the ships out under the islands . 
Kari was one of Earl Sigurd's body guard , and had just been gathering scatts in the Southern Isles from Earl Gilli . 
, and said the earl would take to them well . 
They agreed to that , and went with Kari and came to Hrossey . 
Kari led them to see the earl , and said what men they were . 
It shall be as thou choosest , says the earl , thou hast already taken them so much by the hand . 
Then they were there with the earl that winter , and were worthily treated , but Helgi was silent as the winter wore on . 
The earl could not tell what was at the bottom of that , and asked why he was so silent , and what was on his mind . 
Thinkest thou it not good to be here ? Good , methinks , it is here , he says . 
Then what art thou thinking about ? asks the earl . 
Hast thou any realm to guard in Scotland ? asks Helgi . 
Hast thou the second sight ? said the earl . 
That has been little proved , answers Helgi . 
Well , says the earl , I will increase thy honour if this be so , otherwise thou shalt smart for it . 
Nay , says Kari , Helgi is not that kind of man , and like enough his words are sooth , for his father has the second sight . 
ENDNOTES The mainland of Orkney , now Pomona . 
Now Stroma , in the Pentland Firth . 
THE BATTLE WITH THE EARLS After that the earl set out south with his host , and Kari went with him , and Njal's sons too . 
They came south to Caithness . 
The earl had these realms in Scotland , Ross and Moray , Sutherland , and the Dales . 
There came to meet them men from those realms , and said that the earls were a short way off with a great host . 
Then Earl Sigurd turns his host thither , and the name of that place is Duncansness above which they met , and it came to a great battle between them . 
Now Kari turns to meet Earl Melsnati , and Melsnati hurled a spear at him , but Kari caught the spear and threw it back and through the earl . 
Then Earl Hundi fled , but they chased the fleers until they learnt that Malcolm was gathering a host at Duncansby . 
But when the earl came to Staumey they shared the battle spoil . 
After that he went north to Hrossey , and Njal's sons and Kari followed him . 
After that he took Helgi and Grim into his body guard , and thanked them for their good help . 
They fought against Godred , King of Man , and conquered him and after that they fared back , and had gotten much goods . 
Next winter they were still with the earl , and when the spring came Njal's sons asked leave to go to Norway . 
The earl said they should go or not as they pleased , and he gave them a good ship and smart men . 
After that Njal's sons put out to sea and sailed for Norway , and made the land north near Drontheim . 
Kolbein asked that man for his name . 
My name is Hrapp , says he . 
What wilt thou with me ? says Kolbein . 
I wish to ask thee to put me across the Iceland main . 
Whose son art thou ? asks Kolbein . 
I am a son of Aurgunleid , the son of Geirolf the Fighter . 
What need lies on thee , asked Kolbein , to drive thee abroad ? I have slain a man , says Hrapp . 
I guess this , says Kolbein , that he will have the worst of it who bears thee abroad . 
I am the friend of my friend , said Hrapp , but when ill is done to me I repay it . 
Nor am I short of money to lay down for my passage . 
Then Kolbein took Hrapp on board , and a little while after a fair breeze sprung up , and they sailed away on the sea . 
Hrapp ran short of food at sea and then he sate him down at the mess of those who were nearest to him . 
They sprang up with ill words , and so it was that they came to blows , and Hrapp , in a trice , has two men under him . 
Then Kolbein was told , and he bade Hrapp to come and share his mess , and he accepted that . 
Now they come off the sea , and lie outside off Agdirness . 
Then Kolbein asked where that money was which he had offered to pay for his fare ? It is out in Iceland , answers Hrapp . 
Thou wilt beguile more men than me , I fear , says Kolbein but now I will forgive thee all the fare . 
Hrapp bade him have thanks for that . 
Then Hrapp went on shore with his weapons , and he had a great axe with an iron bound haft in his hand . 
He fares on and on till he comes to Gudbrand of the Dale . 
He was the greatest friend of Earl Hacon . 
They two had a shrine between them , and it was never opened but when the earl came thither . 
That was the second greatest shrine in Norway , but the other was at Hlada . 
Thrand was the name of Gudbrand's son , but his daughter's name was Gudruna . 
Hrapp went in before Gudbrand , and hailed him well . 
He asked whence he came and what was his name . 
Hrapp told him about himself , and how he had sailed abroad from Iceland . 
After that he asks Gudbrand to take him into his household as a guest . 
It does not seem , said Gudbrand , to look on thee , as thou wert a man to bring good luck . 
Well , thou shalt stay here , said Gudbrand . 
To what seat wilt thou shew me ? says Hrapp . 
To one on the lower bench , over against my high seat . 
Then Hrapp went and took his seat . 
She gave her word to be good at first , but still it was soon the old story over again as to their talk . 
Then Gudbrand got Asvard , his overseer , to go about with her , out of doors and in , and to be with her wherever she went . 
One day it happened that she begged for leave to go into the nutwood for a pastime , and Asvard went along with her . 
Hrapp goes to seek for them and found them , and took her by the hand , and led her away alone . 
Then Asvard went to look for her , and found them both together stretched on the grass in a thicket . 
He rushes at them , axe in air , and smote at Hrapp's leg , but Hrapp gave himself a sudden turn , and he missed him . 
Hrapp springs on his feet as quick as he can , and caught up his axe . 
Then Asvard wished to turn and get away , but Hrapp hewed asunder his back bone . 
He shall not learn this from others , says Hrapp , but I will go home and tell him both these tidings . 
Then , she says , thou wilt not come away with thy life . 
I will run the risk of that , he says . 
After that he sees her back to the other women , but he went home . 
Gudbrand sat in his high seat , and there were few men in the room . 
Hrapp went in before him , and bore his axe high . 
Why is thine axe bloody ? asks Gudbrand . 
I made it so by doing a piece of work on thy overseer Asvard's back , says Hrapp . 
That can be no good work , says Gudbrand thou must have slain him . 
So it is , be sure , says Hrapp . 
What did ye fall out about ? asks Gudbrand . 
Oh ! says Hrapp , what you would think small cause enough . 
He wanted to hew off my leg . 
What hadst thou done first ? asked Gudbrand . 
What he had no right to meddle with , says Hrapp . 
Still thou wilt tell me what it was . 
Well ! said Hrapp , if thou must know , I lay by thy daughter's side , and he thought that bad . 
Up men ! cried Gudbrand , and take him . 
He shall be slain out of hand . 
Very little good wilt thou let me reap of my son in lawship , says Hrapp , but thou hast not so many men at thy back as to do that speedily . 
Up they rose , but he sprang out of doors . 
They run after him , but he got away to the wood , and they could not lay hold of him . 
Then Gudbrand gathers people , and lets the wood be searched but they find him not , for the wood was great and thick . 
Hrapp fares through the wood till he came to a clearing there he found a house , and saw a man outside cleaving wood . 
He asked that man for his name , and he said his name was Tofi . 
Tofi asked him for his name in turn , and Hrapp told him his true name . 
It is strange how we beat about the bush in our talk , says Hrapp , but I will first tell thee who I am . 
This is even as thou savest , said the householder I seized and carried off this woman who is here with me , and many men have sought for me . 
Then he led Hrapp in with him there was a small house there , but well built . 
The master of the house told his mistress that he had taken Hrapp into his company . 
Most men will get ill luck from this man , she says but thou wilt have thy way . 
So Hrapp was there after that . 
He was a great wanderer , and was never at home . 
Gudbrand sent and told Earl Hacon what trouble he had had with Hrapp , and the earl let him be made an outlaw , and laid a price upon his head . 
THRAIN TOOK TO HRAPP That same summer Njal's sons fared to Norway from the Orkneys , as was before written , and they were there at the fair during the summer . 
Then Thrain Sigfus' son busked his ship for Iceland , and was all but boun . 
At that time Earl Hacon went to a feast at Gudbrand's house . 
She had a great gold ring on her arm , and a wimple on her head he strips her of her wimple , and takes the gold ring from off her . 
After that he laid fire to the shrine , and burnt it down , and then he goes away just as it began to dawn . 
Earl Hacon and Gudbrand went that morning early to the shrine and found it burnt down but the three gods were outside , stripped of all their bravery . 
That man who has done this will no doubt be driven away out of Valhalla , and never come in thither . 
Who can have done this ? says the earl . 
Killing Hrapp , they say . 
Then he must have burnt down the shrine , says the earl . 
They said they thought he was like enough to have done it . 
And where may he be now ? says the earl . 
They said that Thrand had told them that he had lain down in a thicket . 
The earl goes thither to look for him , but Hrapp was off and away . 
Then the earl set his men to search for him , but still they could not find him . 
So the earl was in the hue and cry himself , but first he bade them rest a while . 
Then the earl went aside by himself , away from other men , and bade that no man should follow him , and so he stays a while . 
He fell down on both his knees , and held his hands before his eyes after that he went back to them , and then he said to them , Come with me . 
So they went along with him . 
He turns short away from the path on which they had walked before , and they came to a dell . 
There up sprang Hrapp before them , and there it was that he had hidden himself at first . 
The earl urges on his men to run after him , but Hrapp was so swift footed that they never came near him . 
There both Thrain and Njal's sons lay boun for sea at the same time . 
Hrapp runs to where Njal's sons are . 
Help me , like good men and true , he said , for the earl will slay me . 
Helgi looked at him , and said , Thou lookest like an unlucky man , and the man who will not take thee in will have the best of it . 
Would that the worst might befall you from me , says Hrapp . 
I am the man , says Helgi , to avenge me on thee for this as time rolls on . 
Then Hrapp turned to Thrain Sigfus' son , and bade him shelter him . 
What hast thou on thy hand ? says Thrain . 
I have burnt a shrine under the earl's eyes , and slain some men , and now he will be here speedily , for he has joined in the hue and cry himself . 
It hardly beseems me to do this , says Thrain , when the earl has done me so much good . 
Then , said Hrapp , here will I take my stand , and here shall I be slain before thine eyes , and then thou wilt have to abide by every man's blame . 
Then Thrain said , Now this will be thy best hiding place , to knock out the bottoms of two casks , and then thou shalt get into them . 
So it was done , and he got into the casks , and then they were lashed together , and lowered overboard . 
Then comes the earl with his band to Njal's sons , and asked if Hrapp had come there . 
They said that he had come . 
The earl asked whither he had gone thence ? They said they had not kept eyes on him , and could not say . 
He , said the earl , should have great honour from me who would tell me where Hrapp was . 
May be , said Grim , the earl will turn his vengeance on us , for he is so wroth that some one will have to fall before him . 
That must not move us , says Helgi , but still we will pull our ship out , and so away to sea as soon as ever we get a wind . 
So they rowed out under an isle that lay there , and wait there for a fair breeze . 
The earl went about among the sailors , and tried them all , but they , one and all , denied that they knew aught of Hrapp . 
Then the earl said , Now we will go to Thrain , my brother in arms , and he will give Hrapp up , if he knows anything of him . 
After that they took a long ship and went off to the merchant ship . 
Thrain sees the earl coming , and stands up and greets him kindly . 
The earl took his greeting well and spoke thus , We are seeking for a man whose name is Hrapp , and he is an Icelander . 
He has done us all kind of ill and now we will ask you to be good enough to give him up , or to tell us where he is . 
Ye know , lord , said Thrain , that I slew your outlaw , and then put my fife in peril , and for that I had of you great honour . 
More honour shalt thou now have , says the earl . 
He spent little time on that , and went on land alone , away from other men , and was then very wroth , so that no man dared to speak to him . 
Shew me to Njal's sons , said the earl , and I will force them to tell me the truth . 
Then he was told that they had put out of the harbour . 
They all gave their words to hide the matter , for they were all sore afraid . 
Then they took some sacks out of the lading , and put Hrapp down into the hold in their stead , and other sacks that were light were laid over him . 
Now comes the earl , just as they were done stowing Hrapp away . 
Thrain greeted the earl well . 
The earl was rather slow to return it , and they saw that the earl was very wroth . 
Then said the earl to Thrain , Give thou up Hrapp , for I am quite sure that thou hast hidden him . 
Where shall I have hidden him , Lord ? says Thrain . 
That thou knowest best , says the earl but if I must guess , then I think that thou hiddest him in the water casks a while ago . 
Well ! says Thrain , I would rather not be taken for a liar , far sooner would I that ye should search the ship . 
Then the earl went on board the ship and hunted and hunted , but found him not . 
Dost thou speak me free now ? says Thrain . 
With that he made them row him ashore . 
He was so wroth that there was no speaking to him . 
Where can he have been hidden ? says Sweyn . 
Then Thrain began to speak , and said , They are running off the ship again , and they must mean to pay us another visit . 
Now we will take him out of the lading , and stow other things in his stead , but let the sacks still lie loose . 
They did so , and then Thrain spoke Now let us fold Hrapp in the sail . 
It was then brailed up to the yard , and they did so . 
Then why did ye not seek him there ? says Thrain . 
That never came into our mind , says the earl . 
After that they sought him over all the ship , and found him not . 
Will you now hold me free ? says Thrain . 
Now , says the earl , I seem to see that Thrain has hidden away Hrapp in the sail . 
Just then , up sprung a fair breeze , and Thrain and his men sailed out to sea . 
He then spoke these words which have long been held in mind since Let us make the Vulture fly , Nothing now gars Thrain flinch . 
Thrain was a short time out on the sea , and so came to Iceland , and fared home to his house . 
Thrain gave the Vulture to his kinsman , Mord the Reckless that Mord slew Oddi Haldor's son , east in Gautawick by Berufirth . 
All Thrain's kinsmen looked on him as a chief . 
EARL HACON FIGHTS WITH NJAL'S SONS . 
'Tis not good counsel , says Sweyn , to throw the blame on guiltless men , but to let him escape who is guilty . 
I shall have my way in this , says the earl . 
Now they hold on after Njal's sons , and seek for them , and find them under an island . 
It is said , said Helgi , that he is the boldest man who holds his own against all comers , and so we will defend ourselves . 
They all bade him take the course he thought best , and then they took to their arms . 
Now the earl comes up and called out to them , and bade them give themselves up . 
Helgi said that they would defend themselves so long as they could . 
Then the earl offered peace and quarter to all who would neither defend themselves nor Helgi but Helgi was so much beloved that all said they would rather die with him . 
Then the earl and his men fall on them , but they defended themselves well , and Njal's sons were ever where there was most need . 
The earl often offered peace , but they all made the same answer , and said they would never yield . 
Then Aslak of Longisle pressed them hard and came on board their ship thrice . 
A little after , Helgi slew Egil the earl's banner bearer . 
Then Sweyn , Earl Hacon's son , fell on them , and made men hem them in and bear them down with shields , and so they were taken captive . 
The earl was for letting them all be slain at once , but Sweyn said that should not be , and said too that it was night . 
Then the earl said , Well , then , slay them to morrow , but bind them fast to night . 
So , I ween , it must be , says Sweyn but never yet have I met brisker men than these , and I call it the greatest manscathe to take their lives . 
They have slain two of our briskest men , said the earl , and for that they shall be slain . 
Because they were brisker men themselves , says Sweyn but still in this it must be done as thou willest . 
So they were bound and fettered . 
After that the earl fell asleep but when all men slept , Grim spoke to Helgi , and said , Away would I get if I could . 
Let us try some trick then , says Helgi . 
Then he set Helgi loose , and after that they crawled over the ship's side , and got on shore , so that neither Hacon nor his men were ware of them . 
Then they broke off their fetters , and walked away to the other side of the island . 
By that time it began to dawn . 
There they found a ship , and knew that there was come Kari Solmund's son . 
They went at once to meet him , and told him of their wrongs and hardships , and showed him their wounds , and said the earl would be then asleep . 
This will not be fated , says Kari but still ye do not lack heart , but we will first know whether he is there now . 
After that they fared thither , and then the earl was up and away . 
Wilt thou hand Njal's sons over to me ? asks the earl . 
No , I will not , said Kari . 
Kari has always been our friend , and things should not have gone as they have , had I been by . 
Njal's sons should have been set free from all blame , but they should have had chastisement who had wrought for it . 
Methinks now it would be more seemly to give Njal's sons good gifts for the hardships and wrongs which have been put upon them , and the wounds they have got . 
So it ought to be , sure enough , says the earl , but I know not whether they will take an atonement . 
Then the earl said that Kari should try the feeling of Njal's sons as to an atonement . 
After that Kari spoke to Helgi , and asked whether he would take any amends from the earl or not . 
I will take them , said Helgi , from his son Eric , but I will have nothing to do with the earl . 
Then Kari told Eric their answer . 
This bidding they took , and went to Eric's house , and were with him till Kari was ready to sail west across the sea to meet Earl Sigurd . 
Then Eric made a feast for Kari , and gave him gifts , and Njal's sons gifts too . 
After that Kari fared west across the sea , and met Earl Sigurd , and he greeted them very well , and they were with the earl that winter . 
Kari gave his word to do that , and then they fared with him a searoving . 
They harried south about Anglesea and all the Southern isles . 
Thence they held on to Cantyre , and landed there , and fought with the landsmen , and got thence much goods , and so fared to their ships . 
Thence they fared south to Wales , and harried there . 
Then they held on for Alan , and there they met Godred , and fought with him , and got the victory , and slew Dungal the king's son . 
There they took great spoil . 
Thence they held on north to Coll , and found Earl Gilli there , and he greeted them well and there they stayed with him a while . 
NJAL'S SONS AND KARI COME OUT TO ICELAND That summer Kari and Njal's sons busked them for Iceland , and when they were all boun they went to see the earl . 
The earl gave them good gifts , and they parted with great friendship . 
Now they put to sea and have a short passage , and they got a fine fair breeze , and made the land at Eyrar . 
Then they got them horses and ride from the ship to Bergthorsknoll , but when they came home all men were glad to see them . 
They flitted home their goods and laid up the ship , and Kari was there that winter with Njal . 
Thrain was good to him . 
NjaI said it would be best that Kettle should talk with his brother Thrain about it , and he gave his word to do so . 
So they gave Kettle breathing time to talk to Thrain . 
Such things , said Njal , are not so strange . 
After that they ceased speaking about it but the matter became the daily talk of many men . 
One day it happened that those brothers spoke to Kari and bade him go to Gritwater . 
Kari said he thought he might go elsewhither on a better journey , but still he would go if that were Njal's counsel . 
So after that Kari fares to meet Thrain , and then they talk over the matter , and they did not each look at it in the same way . 
Kari comes home , and Njal's sons ask how things had gone between Thrain and him . 
Thrain had fifteen house carles trained to arms in his house , and eight of them rode with him whithersoever he went . 
Along with him always went Gunnar Lambi's son , and Lambi Sigurd's son , and Grani Gunnar of Lithend's son . 
But nearest of all to him went Killing Hrapp . 
Lodinn was the name of his serving man , he too went with Thrain when he journeyed Tjorvi was the name of Lodinn's brother , and he too was one of Thrain's band . 
The worst of all , in their words against Njal's sons , were Hrapp and Grani and it was mostly their doing that no atonement was offered to them . 
Njal's sons often spoke to Kari that he should ride with them and it came to that at last , for he said it would be well that they heard Thrain's answer . 
Then they busked them , four of Njal's sons , and Kari the fifth , and so they fare to Gritwater . 
There was a wide porch in the homestead there , so that many men might stand in it side by side . 
Skarphedinn and his men walk up from below , and he went first , then Kari , then Hauskuld , then Grim , then Helgi . 
But when they had come up to the door , then not a word of welcome passed the lips of those who stood before them . 
May we all be welcome here ? said Skarphedinn . 
Hallgerda stood in the porch , and had been talking low to Hrapp , then she spoke out loud None of those who are here will say that ye are welcome . 
I mix Thy words , said Skarphedinn , will not be worth much , for thou art either a hag , only fit to sit in the ingle , or a harlot . 
These words of thine thou shalt pay for , she says , ere thou farest home . 
Little good luck was there in that , says Helgi , to break faith with the earl , and to take to thee instead . 
Thinkest thou not that thou hast some amends to seek from me , says Hrapp . 
I will atone thee in a way that , methinks , were fitting . 
The only dealings we shall have , says Helgi , will be those which will not stand thee in good stead . 
Don't bandy words with Hrapp , said Skarphedinn , but give him a red skin for a grey . 
Hold thy tongue , Skarphedinn , said Hrapp , or I will not spare to bring my axe on thy head . 
'Twill be proved soon enough , I dare say , says Skarphedinn , which of us is to scatter gravel over the other's head . 
Away with you home , ye Dungbeardlings ! says Hallgerda , and so we will call you always from this day forth but your father we will call the Beardless Carle . 
They did not fare home before all who were there had made themselves guilty of uttering those words , save Thrain he forbade men to utter them . 
Then Njal's sons went away , and fared till they came home , then they told their father . 
Did ye call any men to witness of those words ? says Njal . 
We called none , says Skarphedinn we do not mean to follow that suit up except on the battle field . 
No one will now think , says Bergthora , that ye have the heart to lift your weapons . 
Spare thy tongue , mistress ! says Kari , in egging on thy sons , for they will be quite eager enough . 
After that they all talk long in secret , Njal and his sons , and Kari Solmund's son , their brother in law . 
Prop of sea waves' fire , a periphrasis for woman that bears gold on her arm . 
Odin's mocking cup , mocking songs . 
An allusion to the Beast Epic , where the cunning fox laughs at the flayed condition of his stupid foes , the wolf and bear . 
We should say , Don't stop to speak with him , but rather beat him black and blue . 
THRAIN SIGFUS' SON'S SLAYING Now there was great talk about this quarrel of theirs , and all seemed to know that it would not settle down peacefully . 
Hallgerda and Thorgerda were to go too . 
At the same time Thrain gave it out that he meant to stay in the Mark with his brother Kettle , and said how many nights he meant to be away from home . 
They all of them had full arms . 
So they rode east across Markfleet , and found there some gangrel women , and they begged them to put them across the Fleet west on their horses , and they did so . 
Then they rode into the Dale , and had a hearty welcome there Kettle of the Mark met them , and there they sate two nights . 
Thrain said that was not to be dreaded . 
Then Thrain fared up into the Mark , and was there two nights more after that he rode down into the Dale , and was sent away from both houses with fitting gifts . 
Now the Markfleet was then flowing between sheets of ice on both sides , and there were tongues of ice bridging it across every here and there . 
That is fear , and I will none of it , answers Thrain . 
Now those gangrel women whom they had put across the Fleet came to Bergthorsknoll , and Bergthora asked whence they came , but they answered , Away east under Eyjafell . 
Then , who put you across Markfleet ? said Bergthora . 
Those , said they , who were the most boastful and bravest clad of men . 
Listeners do not often hear good of themselves , says Bergthora . 
After that they went their way , and Bergthora gave them gifts on their going , and asked them when Thrain might be coming home . 
They said that he would be from home four or five nights . 
After that Bergthora told her sons and her son in law Kari , and they talked long and low about the matter . 
But that same morning when Thrain and his men rode from the east , Njal woke up early and heard how Skarphedinn's axe came against the panel . 
Then Njal rises up , and goes out , and sees that his sons are all there with their weapons , and Kari , his son in law too . 
He was in a blue cape , and had a targe , and his axe aloft on his shoulder . 
Next to him went Helgi he was in a red kirtle , had a helm on his head , and a red shield , on which a hart was marked . 
Next to him went Kari he had on a silken jerkin , a gilded helm and shield , and on it was drawn a lion . 
They were all in bright holiday clothes . 
Njal called out to Skarphedinn , Whither art thou going , kinsman ? On a sheep hunt , he said . 
So it was once before , said Njal , but then ye hunted men . 
Skarphedinn laughed at that , and said , Hear ye what the old man says ? He is not without his doubts . 
When was it that thou spokest thus before , asks Kari . 
When I slew Sigmund the White , says Skarphedinn , Gunnar of Lithend's kinsman . 
For what ? asks Kari . 
He had slain Thord Freedmanson , my foster father . 
There was sunshine that day and bright weather . 
Now Thrain and his men ride down out of the Dale along the river bank . 
Lambi Sigurd's son said , Shields gleam away yonder in the Redslips when the sun shines on them , and there must be some men lying in wait there . 
Then , says Thrain , we will turn our way lower down the Fleet , and then they will come to meet us if they have any business with us . 
So they turn down the Fleet . 
Now they have caughtsight of us , said Skarphedinn , for lo ! they turn their path elsewhither , and now we have no other choice than to run down and meet them . 
Now they turn down along the Fleet , and see a tongue of ice bridging the stream lower down and mean to cross there . 
Thrain and his men take their stand upon the ice away from the tongue , and Thrain said , What can these men want ? They are five , and we are eight . 
I guess , said Lambi Sigurd's son , that they would still run the risk though more men stood against them . 
Thrain throws off his cloak , and takes off his helm . 
Now it happened to Skarphedinn , as they ran down along the Fleet , that his shoe string snapped asunder , and he stayed behind . 
Why so slow , Skarphedinn ? quoth Grim . 
I am tying my shoe , he says . 
Let us get on ahead , says Kari methinks he will not be slower than we . 
So they turn off to the tongue , and run as fast as they can . 
Skarphedinn sprang up as soon as he was ready , and had lifted his axe , the ogress of war , aloft , and runs right down to the Fleet . 
But the Fleet was so deep that there was no fording it for a long way up or down . 
Skarphedinn takes a spring into the air , and leaps over the stream between the icebanks , and does not check his course , but rushes still onwards with a slide . 
The sheet of ice was very slippery , and so he went as fast as a bird flies . 
This feat was done with such a quick sleight that no one could get a blow at him he glided away from them at once at full speed . 
There Kari and his brothers came to meet him . 
This was done like a man , says Kari . 
, Soon with flesh the ravens glutted Now your words to Hrapp remember , On broad ice now rouse the storm , With dull crash war's eager ogress Battle's earliest note hath sung . 
That befits us well , and we will do it well , says Helgi . 
Then they turn up towards them . 
Both Grim and Helgi see where Hrapp is , and they turned on him at once . 
Hrapp hews at Grim there and then with his axe Helgi sees this and cuts at Hrapp's arm , and cut it off , and down fell the axe . 
In this , says Hrapp , thou hast done a most needful work , for this hand hath wrought harm and death to many a man . 
And so here an end shall be put to it , says Grim and with that he ran him through with a spear , and then Hrapp fell down dead . 
Tjorvi turns against Kari and hurls a spear at him . 
Kari leapt up in the air , and the spear flew below his feet . 
I cannot find it in my heart to do both help Hogni and slay his brother , says Skarphedinn . 
I shall not fear them , answers Skarphedinn . 
After that they gave peace to Grani Gunnar's son , and Gunnar Lambi's son , and Lambi Sigurd's son , and Lodinn . 
Then they turned homewards , and Njal asked what tidings . 
Gunnar Lambi's son bore the body of Thrain with him to Gritwater , and he was laid in a cairn there . 
ENDNOTES Sea stag , periphrasis for ship . 
Sea fire bearers , the bearers of gold , men , that is , Helgi and Grim . 
Byrnie breacher , piercer of coats of mail . 
Noisy ogre's namesake , an allusion to the name of Skarp hedinn's axe , the ogress of war . 
, a good jump , but not beyond the power of man . 
, , where Earl Harold leaps nine ells over a dike . 
After that pledges of peace and good faith were agreed to , and they were settled in the most sure and binding way . 
Njal paid down all the money out of hand well and bravely and so things were quiet for a while . 
Now Hauskuld fares home with Kettle , and is with him some time . 
NJAL TAKES HAUSKULD TO FOSTER Once on a time Njal rides up into the Mark , and he had a hearty welcome . 
He was there that night , and in the evening Njal called out to the lad Hauskuld , and he went up to him at once . 
Njal had a ring of gold on his hand , and showed it to the lad . 
He took hold of the gold , and looked at it , and put it on his finger . 
Wilt thou take the gold as a gift ? said Njal . 
That I will , said the lad . 
Better answered than asked , said Njal and thou wilt live to be a good man and true , he adds . 
Methinks thy forecasting , says Hauskuld , is worth having , for I know that thou art foresighted and unlying . 
Now will I offer to foster thee , said Njal , if thou wilt take the offer . 
He said he would be willing to take both that honour and any other good offer which he might make . 
So the end of the matter was , that Hauskuld fared home with Njal as his foster son . 
He suffered no harm to come nigh the lad , and loved him much . 
Njal's sons took him about with them , and did him honour in every way . 
And so things go on till Hauskuld is full grown . 
Njal's sons and Hauskuld were never apart , either in word or deed . 
OF FLOSI THORD'S SON There was a man named Flosi , he was the son of Thord Freyspriest . 
Flosi had to wife Steinvora , daughter of Hall of the Side . 
She was base born , and her mother's name was Solvora , daughter of Herjolf the White . 
Flosi dwelt at Swinefell , and was a mighty chief . 
He was tall of stature , and strong , withal , the most forward and boldest of men . 
he was not by the same mother as Flosi . 
The other brothers of Flosi were Thorgeir and Stein , Kolbein and Egil . 
Hildigunna was the name of the daughter of Starkad Flosi's brother . 
She was a proud , high spirited maiden , and one of the fairest of women . 
She was so skilful with her hands , that few women were equally skilful . 
She was the grimmest and hardest hearted of all women but still a woman of open hand and heart when any fitting call was made upon her . 
The mother of Thorir was Ingunna , daughter of Helgi the Lean , who took the land round Eyjafirth , as the first settler . 
OF HALL OF THE SIDE Hall was the name of a man who was called Hall of the Side . 
He was the son of Thorstein Baudvar's son . 
Hall had to wife Joreida , daughter of Thidrandi the Wise . 
Thorstein was the name of Hall's brother , and he was nick named Broad paunch . 
His son was Kol , whom Kari slays in Wales . 
The sons of Hall of the Side were Thorstein and Egil , Thorwald and Ljot , and Thidrandi , whom , it is said , the goddesses slew . 
Hall's mother's name was Thordisa , and she was a daughter of Auzur , the son of Hrodlaug , the son of Earl Rognvald of Maeren , the son of Eystein the Noisy . 
Thidrandi was the son of Kettle Rumble , the son of Thorir , the son of Thidrandi of Verudale . 
The brothers of Thidrandi were Kettle Rumble , in Njordwick , and Thorwald , the father of Helgi Droplaug's son . 
Hallkatla was the sister of Joreida . 
She was the mother of Thorkel Geiti's son , and Thidrandi . 
OF THE CHANGE OF FAITH There had been a change of rulers in Norway , Earl Hacon was dead and gone , but in his stead was come Olaf Tryggvi's son . 
That was the end of Earl Hacon , that Kark the thrall cut his throat at Rimul in Gaulardale . 
Then many men spoke so that Njal heard it , that it was a strange and wicked thing to throw off the old faith . 
He went often alone away from other men and muttered to himself . 
That same harvest a ship came out into the firths east to Berufirth , at a spot called Gautawick . 
The captain's name was Thangbrand . 
He was a son of Willibald , a count of Saxony . 
Thangbrand was sent out hither by King Olaf Tryggvi's son , to preach the faith . 
Along with him came that man of Iceland whose name was Gudleif . 
Gudleif was a great man slayer , and one of the strongest of men , and hardy and forward in everything . 
Two brothers dwelt at Beruness the name of the one was Thorleif , but the other was Kettle . 
They were sons of Holmstein , the son of Auzur of Broaddale . 
These brothers held a meeting and forbade men to have any dealings with them . 
This Hall of the Side heard . 
Thangbrand thanked him , and fared to Thvattwater that harvest . 
Hall spoke to Thangbrand and asked , In memory of whom keepest thou this day ? In memory of Michael the archangel , says Thangbrand . 
What follows that angel ? asks Hall . 
Much good , says Thangbrand . 
He will weigh all the good that thou doest , and he is so merciful , that whenever any one pleases him , he makes his good deeds weigh more . 
I would like to have him for my friend , says Hall . 
That thou mayest well have , says Thangbrand , only give thyself over to him by God's help this very day . 
I only make this condition , says Hall , that thou givest thy word for him that he will then become my guardian angel . 
That I will promise , says Thangbrand . 
Then Hall was baptized , and all his household . 
OF THANGBRAND'S JOURNEYS The spring after Thangbrand set out to preach Christianity , and Hall went with him . 
But when they came west across Lonsheath to Staffell , there they found a man dwelling named Thorkell . 
He spoke most against the faith , and challenged Thangbrand to single combat . 
before his shield , and the end of their combat was that Thangbrand won the day and slew Thorkell . 
Thence they fared to Hornfirth and turned in as guests at Borgarhaven , west of Heinabergs sand . 
, and then Hilldir and all his household took upon them the new faith . 
Thence they fared to Fellcombe , and went in as guests to Calffell . 
There dwelt Kol Thorstein's son , Hall's kinsman , and he took upon him the faith and all his house . 
Thence they fared to Swinefell , and Flosi only took the sign of the cross , but gave his word to back them at the Thing . 
Thence they fared west to Woodcombe , and went in as guests at Kirkby . 
There dwelt Surt Asbjorn's son , the son of Thorstein , the son of Kettle the Foolish . 
These had all of them been Christians from father to son . 
After that they fared out of Woodcombe on to Headbrink . 
By that time the story of their journey was spread far and wide . 
There was a man named Sorcerer Hedinn who dwelt in Carlinedale . 
There heathen men made a bargain with him that he should put Thangbrand to death with all his company . 
He fared upon Arnstacksheath , and there made a great sacrifice when Thangbrand was riding from the east . 
ENDNOTES Rood cross , a crucifix . 
His son was Glum who fared to the burning with Flosi . 
Thence they fared to Dyrholms and held a meeting there , and preached the faith there , and there Ingialld , the son of Thorsteinn Highbankawk , became a Christian . 
Thence they fared to the Fleetlithe and preached the faith there . 
, Skull of Weatherlid the Skald . 
, and he was then three winters old . 
he chaseth Man who snaps at chink of gold Wolf who base our Gods blasphemeth , I the other wolf will crush . 
And , says he , I don't mean to be made a catspaw by him , but let him take heed lest his tongue twists a noose for his own neck . 
And after that the messenger fared back to Thorwald the Scurvy and told him Wolf's words . 
Thorwald had many men about him , and gave it out that he would lie in wait for them on Bluewood heath . 
Now those two , Thangbrand and Gudleif , ride out of Hawkdale , and there they came upon a man who rode to meet them . 
We shall not the less for all that ride to meet him , says Gudleif , and then they turned down to Hestbeck . 
Thorwald was then come across the brook , and Gudleif said to Thangbrand , Here is now Thorwald let us rush on him now . 
Thangbrand shot a spear through Thorwald , but Gudleif smote him on the shoulder and hewed his arm off , and that was his death . 
After that they ride up to the Thing , and it was a near thing that the kinsmen of Thorwald had fallen on Thangbrand , but Njal and the eastfirthers stood by Thangbrand . 
Hjallti fared abroad that summer and Gizur the White with him , but Thangbrand's ship was wrecked away east at Bulandsness , and the ship's name was Bison . 
Thangbrand held his peace while she spoke , but made a long speech after her , and turned all that she had said the wrong way against her . 
Knowest thou , she says , who it was that shattered thy ship ? What hast thou to say about that ? he asks . 
Little good was Christ I ween , When Thor shattered ships to pieces Gylfi's hart no God could help . 
, On the briny billows glide , For a storm by Thor awakened , Dashed the bark to splinters small . 
After that Thangbrand and Steinvora parted , and they fared west to Bardastrand . 
Forge which foams with song , the poet's head , in which songs are forged , and gush forth like foaming mead . 
Hero's helm prop , the hero's , man's , head which supports his helm . 
It is needless to say that this Hall was not Hall of the Side . 
Wolf of Gods , the caput lupinum , the outlaw of heaven , the outcast from Valhalla , Thangbrand . 
The other wolf , Gudleif . 
Swarthy skarf , the skarf , or pelecanus carbo , the cormorant . 
He compares the message of Thorwald to the cormorant skimming over the waves , and says he will never take it . 
Snap at flies , a very common Icelandic metaphor from fish rising to a fly . 
Maurer thinks the allusion is here to some mythological legend on Odin's adventures which has not come down to us . 
He that giant's , etc . 
Mew field's bison , the sea going ship , which sails over the plain of the sea mew . 
Bell's warder , the Christian priest whose bell ringing formed part of the rites of the new faith . 
Falcon of the strand , ship . 
Courser of the causeway , ship . 
Viking's snow shoe , sea king's ship . 
OF GEST ODDLEIF'S SON Gest Oddleit's son dwelt at Hagi on Bardastrand . 
He was one of the wisest of men , so that he foresaw the fates and fortunes of men . 
He made a feast for Thangbrand and his men . 
They fared to Hagi with sixty men . 
Of him such great things as these were said , that he feared neither fire nor sword , and the heathen men were sore afraid at his coming . 
Then Thangbrand asked if men were willing to take the faith , but all the heathen met spoke against it . 
Well , says Thangbrand , I will give you the means whereby ye shall prove whether my faith is better . 
We will hallow two fires . 
That is well spoken , says Gest , and I will agree to this for myself and my household . 
And when Gest had so spoken , then many more agreed to it . 
Then it was said that the Baresark was coming up to the homestead , and then the fires were made and burnt strong . 
Then men took their arms and sprang up on the benches , and so waited . 
The Baresark rushed in with his weapons . 
He hews with his sword at the bench , but strikes a crossbeam as he brandished the weapon aloft . 
Thangbrand smote the arm of the Baresark with his crucifix , and so mighty a token followed that the sword fell from the Baresark's hand . 
Then Thangbrand thrusts a sword into his breast , and Gudleif smote him on the arm and hewed it off . 
Then many went up and slew the Baresark . 
After that Thangbrand asked if they would take the faith now ? Gest said he had only spoken what he meant to keep to . 
Then Thangbrand baptized Gest and all his house and many others . 
I did all that I could at the Thing , says Thangbrand , and it was very uphill work . 
After that Gest gave Thangbrand good gifts , and he fared back south . 
Thangbrand fared to the Southlander's Quarter , and so to the Eastfirths . 
He turned in as a guest at Bergthorsknoll , and Njal gave him good gifts . 
Thence he rode east to Alftafirth to meet Hall of the Side . 
He caused his ship to be mended , and heathen men called it Iron basket . 
On board that ship Thangbrand fared abroad , and Gudleif with him . 
OF GIZUR THE WHITE AND HJALLTI That same summer Hjallti Skeggi's son was outlawed at the Thing for blasphemy against the Gods . 
Then King Olaf was so wroth that he made them seize all the men from Iceland and set them in dungeons , and meant to slay them . 
Then they , Gizur the White and Hjallti , came up and offered to lay themselves in pledge for those men , and fare out to Iceland and preach the faith . 
The king took this well , and they got them all set free again . 
Then Gizur and Hjallti busked their ship for Iceland , and were soon boun . 
They made the land at Eyrar when ten weeks of summer had passed they got them horses at once , but left other men to strip their ship . 
Then they ride with thirty men to the Thing , and sent word to the Christian men that they must be ready to stand by them . 
, there came Hjallti after them , and said he would not let the heathen men see that he was afraid of them . 
Then many Christian men rode to meet them , and they ride in battle array to the Thing . 
This was a hyer , or hot spring . 
This was the Raven's Rift , opposite to the Great Rift on the other side of Thingfield . 
OF THORGEIR OF LIGHTWATER There was a man named Thorgeir who dwelt at Lightwater he was the son of Tjorfi , the son of Thorkel the Long , the son of Kettle Longneck . 
His mother's name was Thoruna , and she was the daughter of Thorstein , the son of Sigmund , the son of Bard of the Nip . 
Gudrida was the name of his wife she was a daughter of Thorkel the Black of Hleidrargarth . 
His brother was Worm Wallet back , the father of Hlenni the Old of Saurby . 
The Christian men set up their booths , and Gizur the White and Hjallti were in the booths of the men from Mossfell . 
After that men went away , and all thought things looked like the greatest entanglement . 
to utter what the law should be , but still that was most hazardous counsel , since he was an heathen . 
Now , I will ask both Christian men and heathen whether they will hold to those laws which I utter ? They all said they would . 
It shall be outlawry if such things are proved openly against any man but if these things are done by stealth , then it shall be blameless . 
But all this heathendom was all done away with within a few years' space , so that those things were not allowed to be done either by stealth or openly . 
Thorgeir then uttered the law as to keeping the Lord's day and fast days , Yuletide and Easter , and all the greatest highdays and holidays . 
The heathen men thought they had been greatly cheated but still the true faith was brought into the law , and so all men became Christian here in the land . 
After that men fare home from the Thing . 
This was no bribe , but his lawful fee . 
Hauskuld bade him settle the matter as he pleased , and asked whether he was most likely to turn his eyes . 
There is a woman called Hildigunna , answers Njal , and she is the daughter of Starkad , the son of Thord Freyspriest . 
She is the best match I know of . 
See thou to it , foster father , said Hauskuld that shall be my choice which thou choosest . 
Then we will look thitherward , says Njal . 
A little while after , Njal called on men to go along with him . 
Then the sons of Sigfus , and Njal's sons , and Kari Solmund's son , all of them fared with him and they rode east to Swinefell . 
There they got a hearty welcome . 
At whose hand ? says Flosi . 
At the hand of Hauskuld , my foster son , says Njal . 
We will call her hither , says Flosi , and know how she looks on the man . 
Then Hildigunna was called , and she came thither . 
Flosi told her of the wooing , but she said she was a proudhearted woman . 
This is quite enough , says Flosi , if thou wilt not be wedded to Hauskuld , to make me take no more pains about the match . 
Then , said Njal , I will beg thee to let this match stand over for three winters , that I may see what I can do . 
Flosi said that so it should be . 
I will only bargain for this one thing , says Hildigunna , if this match comes to pass , that we shall stay here away east . 
Njal said he would rather leave that to Hauskuld , but Hauskuld said that he put faith in many men , but in none so much as his foster father . 
Now they ride from the east . 
Njal sought to get a priesthood and leadership for Hauskuld , but no one was willing to sell his priesthood , and now the summer passes away till the Althing . 
Now things go on till another Thing comes . 
Njal rode to the Thing , and at first all is quiet until Njal says that it is high time for men to give notice of their suits . 
So it must not be , says Njal , for it will never do to have no law in the land . 
'Twere good counsel , then , methinks , that we call together all the chiefs and talk the matter over . 
Methinks , it were wiser if we had a Fifth Court , and there pleaded those suits which cannot be brought to an end in the Quarter Courts . 
In this court all the oaths shall be of the strongest kind , and two men shall follow every oath , who shall support on their words of honour what the others swear . 
After that , Skapti Thorod's son brought the Fifth Court into the law , and all that was spoken of before . 
Then men went to the Hill of Laws , and men set up new priesthoods In the Northlanders' Quarter were these new priesthoods . 
The priesthood of the Melmen in Midfirth , and the Laufesingers' priesthood in the Eyjafirth . 
Then Njal begged for a hearing , and spoke thus It is known to many men what passed between my sons and the men of Gritwater when they slew Thrain Sigfus' son . 
He got this leave from all , and after that he set up the new priesthood for Hauskuld and he was afterwards called Hauskuld , the Priest of Whiteness . 
Then Hildigunna was betrothed to Hauskuld , and the day for the wedding feast was fixed , and so the matter ended . 
They then ride home , but they rode again shortly to the bridal , and Flosi paid down all her goods and money after the wedding , and all went off well . 
They fared home to Bergthorsknoll , and were there the next year , and all went well between Hildigunna and Bergthom . 
But the next spring Njal bought land in Ossaby , and hands it over to Hauskuld , and thither he fares to his own abode . 
Hauskuld dwelt long at Ossaby , and each backed the other's honour , and Njal's sons were always in Hauskuld's company . 
Their friendship was so warm , that each house bade the other to a feast every harvest , and gave each other great gifts and so it goes on for a long while . 
Lyting was tall of growth and a strong man , wealthy in goods and ill to deal with . 
It happened once that Lyting had a feast in his house at Samstede , and he had bidden thither Hauskuld and the sons of Sigfus , and they all came . 
There , too , was Grani Gunnar's son , and Gunnar Lambi's son , and Lambi Sigurd's son . 
Hauskuld Njal's son and his mother had a farm at Holt , and he was always riding to his farm from Bergthorsknoll , and his path lay by the homestead at Samstede . 
Hauskuld had a son called Amund he had been born blind , but for all that he was tall and strong . 
Lytina had two brothers the one's name was Hallstein , and the other's Hallgrim . 
They were the most unruly of men , and they were ever with their brother , for other men could not bear their temper . 
Lyting was out of doors most of that day , but every now and then he went inside his house . 
That I will not do , says Hauskuld , for then I should repay Njal , my foster father , evil for good , and mayst thou and thy feasts never thrive henceforth . 
With that he sprang up away from the board , and made them catch his horses , and rode home . 
Now , my will is that we ride to meet him this evening , and slay him . 
No , says Grani , I will not fall on Njal's son , and so break the atonement which good men and true have made . 
With like words spoke each man of them , and so , too , spoke all the sons of Sigfus and they took that counsel to ride away . 
After that he called on his two brothers to go with him , and three house carles as well . 
Then Hauskuld rode up to them . 
They jump up all of them with their arms , and fall on him . 
They gave Hauskuld sixteen wounds , but they hewed not off the head from his body . 
They fared away into the wood east of Rangriver , and hid themselves there . 
That same evening , Rodny's shepherd found Hauskuld dead , and went home and told Rodny of her son's slaying . 
Was he surely dead ? she asks was his head off ? It was not , he says . 
I shall know if I see , she says so take thou my horse and driving gear . 
He did so , and got all things ready , and then they went thither where Hauskuld lay . 
She looked at the wounds , and said , 'Tis even as I thought , that he could not be quite dead , and Njal no doubt can cure greater wounds . 
After that they took the body and laid it on the sledge and drove to Bergthorsknoll , and drew it into the sheepcote , and made him sit upright against the wall . 
Then they went both of them and knocked at the door , and a house carle went to the door . 
She steals in by him at once , and goes till she comes to Njal's bed . 
She asked whether Njal were awake ? He said he had slept up to that time , but was then awake . 
They rose and went out . 
Let us take our weapons , said Skarphedinn , and have them with us . 
Njal said naught at that , and they ran in and came out again armed . 
She goes first till they come to the sheepcote she goes in and bade them follow her . 
Our mother eggs us on now with a just goading , said Skarphedinn , and sang a song . 
ENDNOTES Mideven , six o'clock p . 
Warrior's temper , the temper of Hauskuld of Whiteness . 
Snake land's stem , a periphrasis for woman , Rodny . 
He that hoardeth ocean's fire , a periphrasis for man , Hauskuld of Whiteness . 
THE SLAYING OF LYTING'S BROTHERS Now we must speak of Skarphedinn and his brothers , how they bend their course up to Rangriver . 
Then Skarphedinn said , Stand we here and listen , and let us go stilly , for I hear the voices of men up along the river's bank . 
But will ye , Helgi and Grim , deal with Lyting single handed , or with both his brothers ? They said they would sooner deal with Lyting alone . 
Still , says Skarphedinn , there is more game in him , and methinks it were ill if he gets away , but I trust myself best for not letting him escape . 
We will take such steps , says Helgi , if we get a chance at him , that he shall not slip through our fingers . 
Then they went thitherward , where they heard the voices of men , and see where Lyting and his brothers are by a stream . 
Skarphedinn leaps over the stream at once , and alights on the sandy brink on the other side . 
There upon it stands Hallgrim and his brother . 
Skarphedinn smites at Hallgrim's thigh , so that he cut the leg clean off , but he grasps Hallstein with his left hand . 
Lyting thrust at Skarphedinn , but Helgi came up then and threw his shield before the spear , and caught the blow on it . 
Lyting took up a stone and hurled it at Skarphedinn , and he lost his hold on Hallstein . 
Hallstein sprang up the sandy bank , but could get up it in no other way than by crawling on his hands and knees . 
Skarphedinn made a side blow at him with his axe , the ogress of war , and hews asunder his backbone . 
Hauskuld was at home , and meets him at once . 
Lyting told him of these deeds . 
Such things were to be looked for by thee , says Hauskuld . 
Thou hast behaved like a madman , and here the truth of the old saw will be proved but a short while is hand fain of blow . 
Methinks what thou hast got to look to now is whether thou wilt be able to save thy life or not . 
So it shall be , says Hauskuld . 
After that Hauskuld made them saddle his horse , and rode to Bergthorsknoll with five men . 
Njal's sons were then come home and had laid them down to sleep . 
Hauskuld went at once to see Njal , and they began to talk . 
Hither am I come , said Hauskuld to Njal , to beg a boon on behalf of Lyting , my uncle . 
He has done great wickedness against you and yours , broken his atonement and slain thy son . 
Nor shall Lyting have any atonement for his wounds , but on the other hand , he shall pay the full blood fine for Hauskuld . 
My wish , said Hauskuld , is , that thou shouldest make thine own terms . 
Well , says Njal , then I will utter the award at once if thou wilt . 
Then Hauskuld said , Let us close the matter then , and handsel him peace on behalf of thy sons . 
So it shall be , says Njal . 
He must have come to ask a boon for Lyting then , said Skarphedinn . 
So it was , says Njal . 
Ill was it then , says Grim . 
Hauskuld could not have thrown his shield before him , says Njal , if thou hadst slain him , as it was meant thou shouldst . 
Let us throw no blame on our father , says Skarphedinn . 
Now it is to be said that this atonement was kept between them afterwards . 
OF AMUND THE BLIND That event happened three winters after at the Thingskala Thing that Amund the Blind was at the Thing he was the son of Hauskuld Njal's son . 
He made men lead him about among the booths , and so he came to the booth inside which was Lyting of Samstede . 
He made them lead him into the booth till he came before Lyting . 
Is Lyting of Samstede here ? he asked . 
What dost thou want ? says Lyting . 
I want to know , says Amund , what atonement thou wilt pay me for my father . 
I am base born , and I have touched no fine . 
I ask not , says Amund , as to thy having paid an atonement to them . 
I know that ye two are now friends , but I ask this , what atonement thou wilt pay to me ? None at all , says Lyting . 
After that he went out but when he came to the door of the booth , he turned short round towards the inside . 
Then his eyes were opened , and he said , Praised be the Lord ! Now I see what his will is . 
Lyting fell forwards and was dead at once . 
Then he made them lead him to Njal and his sons , and he told them of Lyting's slaying . 
After that Njal offered an atonement to Lyting's kinsmen . 
After that men came forward with pledges of peace and good faith , and Lyting's kinsmen granted pledges to Amund . 
Men rode home from the Thing and now all is quiet for a long while . 
OF VALGARD THE GUILEFUL Valgard the Guileful came back to Iceland that summer he was then still heathen . 
He fared to Hof to his son Mord's house , and was there the winter over . 
He said to Mord , Here I have ridden far and wide all over the neighbourhood , and methinks I do not know it for the same . 
I came to Whiteness , and there I saw many tofts of booths and much ground levelled for building . 
I came to Thingskala Thing , and there I saw all our booths broken down . 
I shall never be able to get that done , says Mord . 
This plan they settled between them should be brought to pass and Mord said , I would , father , that thou wouldst take on thee the new faith . 
Thou art an old man . 
I will not do that , says Valgard . 
I would rather that thou shouldst cast off the faith , and see what follows then . 
Mord said he would not do that . 
Valgard broke crosses before Mord's face , and all holy tokens . 
A little after Valgard took a sickness and breathed his last , and he was laid in a cairn by Hof . 
Skarphedinn took it all well , but said he had never sought for anything of the kind before . 
So it came about that he got himself into such great friendship with them , that neither side thought they had taken any good counsel unless the other had a share in it . 
Njal always disliked his coming thither , and it often happened that he was angry with him . 
They promised to go , and now he fares home and makes ready the feast . 
He bade to it many householders , and that feast was very crowded . 
Thither came Njal's sons and Kari . 
Mord gave Skarphedinn a brooch of gold , and a silver belt to Kari , and good gifts to Grim and Helgi . 
They come home and boast of these gifts , and show them to Njal . 
He said they would be bought full dear , and take heed that ye do not repay the giver in the coin which he no doubt wishes to get . 
OF THE SLANDER OF MORD VALGARD'S SON . 
A little after Njal's sons and Hauskuld were to have their yearly feasts , and they were the first to bid Hauskuld to come to them . 
Skarphedinn had a brown horse four winters old , both tall and sightly . 
He was a stallion , and had never yet been matched in fight . 
That horse Skarphedinn gave to Hauskuld , and along with him two mares . 
They all gave Hauskuld gifts , and assured him of their friendship . 
After that Hauskuld bade them to his house at Ossaby , and had many guests to meet them , and a great crowd . 
It happened that he had just then taken down his hall , but he had built three outhouses , and there the beds were made . 
So all that were bidden came , and the feast went off very well . 
But when men were to go home Hauskuld picked out good gifts for them , and went a part of the way with Njal's sons . 
The sons of Sigfus followed him and all the crowd , and both sides said that nothing should ever come between them to spoil their friendship . 
A little while after Mord came to Ossaby and called Hauskuld out to talk with him , and they went aside and spoke . 
What a difference in manliness there is , said Mord , between thee and Njal's sons ! Thou gavest them good gifts , but they gave thee gifts with great mockery . 
How makest thou that out ? says Hauskuld . 
They gave thee a horse which they called a dark horse , and that they did out of mockery to thee , because they thought thee too untried . 
I can tell thee also that they envy thee the priesthood . 
Skarphedinn took it up as his own at the Thing when thou camest not to the Thing at the summoning of the Fifth Court , and Skarphedinn never means to let it go . 
That is not true , says Hauskuld , for I got it back at the Folkmote last harvest . 
Then that was Njal's doing , says Mord . 
They broke , too , the atonement about Lyting . 
I do not mean to lay that at their door , says Hauskuld . 
But as for thee , thou art all the worse a man for having spoken this . 
After that Mord fares home . 
A little after Mord goes to see Njal's sons , and he talks much with those brothers and Kari . 
Next harvest Hauskuld fared east to Swinefell to a feast , and Flosi gave him a hearty welcome . 
Then some will say , says Hauskuld , that I am flying thence for fear's sake , and that I will not have said . 
Then it is more likely that great trouble will arise , says Flosi . 
Ill is that then , says Hauskuld , for I would rather fall unatoned , than that many should reap ill for my sake . 
Hauskuld busked him to ride home a few nights after , but Flosi gave him a scarlet cloak , and it was embroidered with needlework down to the waist . 
Hauskuld rode home to Ossaby , and now all is quiet for a while . 
Hauskuld was so much beloved that few men were his foes , but the same ill will went on between him and Njal's sons the whole winter through . 
Njal had taken as his foster child , Thord , the son of Kari . 
He had also fostered Thorhall , the son of Asgrim Ellidagrim's son . 
Thorhall was a strong man , and hardy both in body and mind , he had learnt so much law that he was the third greatest lawyer in Iceland . 
Next spring was an early spring , and men are busy sowing their corn . 
OF MORD AND NJAL'S SONS It happened one day that Mord came to Berathorsknoll . 
I will let thee have thy way in this , says Skarphedinn , if thou wilt fare with us , and have some hand in it . 
That I am ready to do , says Mord , and so they bound that fast with promises , and he was to come there that evening . 
Skarphedinn did not lie down to rest that evening , nor his brothers , nor Kari . 
That same night , when it was well nigh spent , came Mord Valgard's son , and Njal's sons and Kari took their weapons and rode away . 
They fared till they came to Ossaby , and bided there by a fence . 
The weather was good , and the sun just risen . 
He took his corn sieve , and had his sword in his other hand , and walks towards the fence , and sows the corn as he goes . 
Skarphedinn and his band had agreed that they would all give him a wound . 
Hauskuld said these words when he fell , God help me , and forgive you ! Then they all ran up to him and gave him wounds . 
After that Mord said , A plan comes into my mind . 
What is that ? says Skarphedinn . 
Do so by all means , says Skarphedinn . 
Those brothers fared home , and Kari with them , and when they came home they told Njal the tidings . 
It is some excuse for thee , says Skarphedinn , that thou art an old man , and it is to be looked for that this touches thee nearly . 
But this , says Njal , no less than old age , is why I grieve , that I know better than thou what will come after . 
What will come after ? says Skarphedinn . 
My death , says Njal , and the death of my wife and of all my sons . 
What dost thou foretell for me ? says Kari . 
They will have hard work to go against thy good fortune , for thou wilt be more than a match for all of them . 
This one thing touched Njal so nearly that he could never speak of it without shedding tears . 
OF HILDIGNNA AND MORD VALGARD'S SON Hildigunna woke up and found that Hauskuld was away out of his bed . 
Hard have been my dreams , she said , and not good but go and search for him , Hauskuld . 
So they searched for him about the homestead and found him not . 
By that time she had dressed herself then she goes and two men with her , to the fence , and there they find Hauskuld slain . 
It were a manly deed , she says , if one man had been at it . 
Now she sent a man up to Gritwater to tell the tidings thither , but Mord was there before him , and had already told the tidings . 
There , too , was come Kettle of the Mark . 
Thorgerda said to Kettle , Now is Hauskuld dead as we know , and now bear in mind what thou promisedst to do when thou tookest him for thy fosterchild . 
Then Mord fared down to Ossaby , and thither came nine neighbours who dwelt nearest the spot . 
Mord had ten men with him . 
But the slaying he gave notice of at Skarphedinn's hand , and the wounds at his brothers' and Kari's . 
After that he called on nine neighbours who dwelt nearest the spot to ride away from home to the Althing on the inquest . 
After that he rode home . 
He scarce ever met Njal's sons , and when he did meet them , he was cross , and that was part of their plan . 
The slaying of Hauskuld was heard over all the land , and was ill spoken of . 
Njal's sons went to see Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , and asked him for aid . 
Now Njal's sons fare home . 
THE PEDIGREE OF GUDMUND THE POWERFUL There was a man named Gudmund the Powerful , who dwelt at Modruvale in Eyjafirth . 
He was the son of Eyjolf the son of Einar . 
Gudmund was a mighty chief , wealthy in goods he had in his house a hundred hired servants . 
Gudmund was a friend of Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , and so he hoped to get his help . 
Einar was the son of Audun the Bald , the son of Thorolf Butter , the son of Thorstein the Unstable , the son of Grim with the Tuft . 
The mother of Eyjolf , Gudmund's father , was Valgerda Runolf's daughter the mother of Valgerda was Valbjorg , her mother was Joruna the Disowned , a daughter of King Oswald the Saint . 
The mother of Einar , the father of Eyjolf , was Helga , a daughter of Helgi the Lean , who took Eyjafirth as the first settler . 
Helgi was the son of Eyvind the Easterling . 
The mother of Helgi was Raforta , the daughter of Kjarval , the Erse King . 
The mother of Helga Helgi's daughter , was Thoruna the Horned , daughter of Kettle Flatnose , the son of Bjorn the Rough footed , the son of Grim , Lord of Sogn . 
The mother of Grim was Hervora , but the mother of Hervora was Thorgerda , daughter of King Haleyg of Helgeland . 
Thorlauga was the name of Gudmund the Powerful's wife , she was a daughter of Atli the Strong , the son of Eilif the Eagle . 
the son of Bard , the son of Jalkettle , the son of Ref , the son of Skidi the Old . 
The mother of Herdisa Thord's daughter was Thorgerda Skidi's daughter , her mother was Fridgerda , a daughter of Kjarval , the Erse King . 
OF SNORRI THE PRIEST , AND HIS STOCK There was a man named Snorri , who was surnamed the Priest . 
Thorgrim was the name of Snorri's father , and he was a son of Thorstein codcatcher . 
Snorri was a great friend of Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , and he looked for help there also . 
Snorri was the wisest and shrewdest of all these men in Iceland who had not the gift of foresight . 
He was good to his friends , but grim to his foes . 
At that time there was a great riding to the Thing out of all the Quarters , and men had many suits set on foot . 
Thorstein Codcatcher was the son of Thorolf Mostrarskegg , the son of Ornolf Fish driver , but Ari the Wise ways he was the son of Thorgil Reydarside . 
Thorolf Mostrarskegg had to wife Oska , the daughter of Thorstein the Red . 
OF FLOSI THORD'S SON Flosi hears of Hauskuld's slaying , and that brings him much grief and wrath , but still he kept his feelings well in hand . 
He was told how the suit had been set on foot , as has been said , for Hauskuld's slaying , and he said little about it . 
He sent word to Hall of the Side , his father in law , and to Ljot his son , that they must gather in a great company at the Thing . 
Ljot was thought the most hopeful man for a chief away there east . 
He had then ridden one summer to the Thing , and now he meant to ride the second time . 
Hall gave his word , too , to gather a great company , and Flosi rode till he came to Kirkby , to Surt Asbjorn's son . 
Then Flosi sent after Kolbein Egil's son , his brother's son , and he came to him there . 
Thence he rode to Headbrink . 
There dwelt Thorgrim the Showy , the son of Thorkel the Fair . 
Of a truth , said Flosi , that hath now come on my hands , which I would give all my goods that it had never happened . 
Ill seed has been sown , and so an ill crop will spring from it . 
Thence he rode over Amstacksheath , and so to Solheim that evening . 
There dwelt Lodmund Wolf's son , but he was a great friend of Flosi , and there he stayed that night , and next morning Lodmund rode with him into the Dale . 
There dwelt RunoIf , the son of Wolf Aurpriest . 
Flosi said to Runolf , Here we shall have true stories as to the slaying of Hauskuld , the Priest of Whiteness . 
No one thinks it so much a loss as Njal , his foster father . 
Then they will be ill off for help from men , says Flosi and they will find no one to speak up for them . 
So it will be , says Runolf , unless it be otherwise foredoomed . 
What has been done in the suit ? says Flosi . 
Now the neighbours have been summoned on the inquest , says Runolf , and due notice given of the suit for manslaughter . 
Who took that step ? asks Flosi . 
Mord Valgard's son , says Runolf . 
How far is that to be trusted ? says Flosi . 
He is of my kin , says Runolf but still if I tell the truth of him , I must say that more men reap ill than good from him . 
For Njal will make a good offer , and so will others of the best men . 
Ride thou then to the Thing , Runolf , said Flosi , and thy words shall have much weight with me , unless things turn out worse than they should . 
After that they cease speaking about it , and Runolf promised to go to the Thing . 
Runolf sent word to Hafr the Wise , his kinsman , and he rode thither at once . 
Thence Flosi rode to Ossaby . 
Then Flosi rode into the town , and Hildigunna turned to him and said , Come in safe and sound and happy kinsman , and my heart is fain at thy coming hither . 
Here , says Flosi , we will break our fast , and then we will ride on . 
Hildigunna was standing close by , and said , It is ill if it mislikes thee , for this we did with a whole heart . 
If thy heart is whole towards me , then what I do will praise itself if it be well done , but it will blame itself if it be ill done . 
Hildigunna laughed a cold laugh , and said , There is nothing new in that , we will go nearer yet ere we have done . 
She sat her down by Flosi , and they talked long and low . 
After that the board was laid , and Flosi and his band washed their hands . 
Flosi looked hard at the towel and saw that it was all in rags , and had one end torn off . 
After that Flosi sat down to the board and bade men eat . 
Then Hildigunna came into the room and went before Flosi , and threw her hair off her eyes and wept . 
Heavy hearted art thou now , kinswoman , said Flosi , when thou weepest , but still it is well that thou shouldst weep for a good husband . 
What vengeance or help shall I have of thee ? she says . 
Hauskuld would avenge thee , she said , if he had the blood feud after thee . 
Thou lackest not grimness , answered Flosi , and what thou wantest is plain . 
Arnor Ornolf's son , of Forswaterwood , said Hildigunna , had done less wrong towards Thord Frey's priest thy father and yet thy brothers Kolbein and Egil slew him at Skaptarfells Thing . 
Then she went back into the sitting room with the Cloak she went up silently to Flosi . 
Flosi had just then eaten his full , and the board was cleared . 
Hildigunna threw the cloak over Flosi , and the gore rattled down all over him . 
But women's counsel is ever cruel . 
Flosi was so stirred at this , that sometimes he was bloodred in the face , and sometimes ashy pale as withered grass , and sometimes blue as death . 
Flosi and his men rode away he rode to Holtford , and there waits for the sons of Sigfus and other of his men . 
Ingialld dwelt at the Springs he was the brother of Rodny , Hauskuld Njal's son's mother . 
Ingialld had to wife Thraslauga , the daughter of Egil , the son of Thord Frey's priest . 
Flosi sent word to Ingialld to come to him , and Ingialld went at once , with fourteen men . 
They were all of his household . 
Ingialld was a tall man and a strong , and slow to meddle with other men's business , one of the bravest of men , and very bountiful to his friends . 
I thought , said Flosi , when I gave away my brother's daughter to thee , that thou gavest me thy word to stand by me in every suit . 
It is most likely , says Ingialld , that I shall do so , but still I will now , first of all , ride home , and thence to the Thing . 
They were children of Hauskuld the White , the son of Ingialld the Strong , the son of Gerfinn the Red , the son of Solvi , the son of Tborstein Baresarks bane . 
The mother of Egil was Thraslauga , the daughter of Thorstein Titling the mother of Thraslauga was Unna , the daughter of Eyvind Karf . 
Flosi stood up to meet them , and greeted them gladly . 
So they went down the river . 
Flosi had the whole story from them about the slaying , and there was no difference between them and Kettle of the Mark's story . 
Thou art a good man and true , said Flosi , and it is well to have such men with one . 
Then Grani Gunnar's son and Lambi Sigurd's son both spoke together , and said , We wish for outlawry and death . 
It is not given us , said Flosi , both to share and choose , we must take what we can get . 
Thou hast stood so near to them , said Flosi , that thou mightest have avenged these things hadst thou had the heart and manhood . 
Methinks thou and many others now ask for what ye would give much money hereafter never to have had a share in . 
Ye may make up your minds , then , that many will become poor who before had great goods , but some of vou will lose both goods and life . 
Mord Valgard's son rode to meet Flosi , and said he would ride to the Thing with him with all his men . 
Flosi took that well , and raised a matter of a wedding with him , that he should give away Rannveiga his daughter to Starkad Flosi's brother's son , who dwelt at Staffell . 
Flosi did this because he thouoht he would so make sure both of his faithfulness and force . 
Mord took the wedding kindly , but handed the matter over to Gizur the White , and bade him talk about it at the Thing . 
Mord had to wife Thorkatla , Gizur the White's daughter . 
They two , Mord and Flosi , rode both together to the Thing , and talked the whole day , and no man knew aught of their counsel . 
NJAL AND SKARPHEDINN TALK TOGETHER Now , we must say how Njal said to Skarphedinn . 
I ween that many men will have good words to say of me , and so I shall stand you in good stead , and do you no harm . 
There , too , was Thorhall Asgrim's son , and Njal's fosterson . 
There will ever be most good in thee , said Njal , when there is most need of it . 
So they all busked them to ride away from home , and were nigh thirty men in all , and rode till they came to Thursowater . 
Hjallti tells Njal all about Flosi's doings . 
Njal was clad in a blue cape , and had a felt hat on his head , and a small axe in his hand . 
Asgrim helped Njal off his horse , and led him and sate him down in his own seat . 
After that they all went in , Njal's sons and Kari . 
But all those who were in the house thanked him , and said that was bravely spoken . 
They were there that night , but the day after all Asgrim's band came thither . 
And after that they all rode together till they come up on the Thing field , and fit up their booths . 
ASGRIM AND NJAL'S SONS PRAY MEN FOR HELP By that time Flosi had come to the Thing , and filled all his booths . 
Runolf filled the Dale dwellers' booths , and Mord the booths of the men from Rangriver . 
Hall was a wise man and good hearted . 
Flosi answered him well in everything , but gave way in nothing . 
Hall asked what men had promised him help ? Flosi named Mord Valgard's son , and said he had asked for his daughter at the hand of his kinsman Starkad . 
Hall said she was a good match , but it was ill dealing with Mord , And that thou wilt put to the proof ere this Thing be over . 
After that they ceased talking . 
One day Njal and Asgrim had a long talk in secret . 
Then Asgrim went out , and Helgi Njal's son next then Kari Solmund's son then Grim Njal's son then Skarphedinn then Thorhall then Thorgrim the Big then Thorleif Crow . 
They went to the booth of Gizur the White and inside it . 
Gizur stood up to meet them , and bade them sit down and drink . 
Not thitherward , says Asgrim , tends our way , and we will speak our errand out loud , and not mutter and mouth about it . 
Asgrim thanked him , and went away afterwards . 
Then Skarphedinn asked , Whither shall we go now ? To the booths of the men of Olfus , says Asgrim . 
So they went thither , and Asgrim asked whether Skapti Thorod's son were in the booth ? He was told that he was . 
Then they went inside the booth . 
Skapti sate on the cross bench , and greeted Asgrim , and he took the greeting well . 
Skapti offered Asgrim a seat by his side , but Asgrim said he should only stay there a little while , But still we have an errand to thee . 
Let me hear it ? says Skapti . 
I wish to beg thee for thy help , that thou wilt stand by us in our suit . 
One thing I had hoped , says Skapti , and that is , that neither you nor your troubles would ever come into my dwelling . 
Such things are ill spoken , says Asgrim , when a man is the last to help others , when most lies on his aid . 
After that thou wentest to Thorolf Lopt's son of Eyrar , and he took thee on board , and bore thee out here in his meal sacks . 
After that Asgrim and his band went out , and Skarphedinn asked , Whither shall we go now ? To Snorri the Priest's booth , says Asgrim . 
Then they went to Snorri's booth . 
There was a man outside before the booth , and Asgrim asked whether Snorri were in the booth . 
The man said he was . 
Asgrim went into the booth , and all the others . 
Snorri was sitting on the cross bench , and Asgrim went and stood before him , and hailed him well . 
Snorri took his greeting blithely , and bade him sit down . 
Asgrim said he should be only a short time there , But we have an errand with thee . 
Snorri bade him tell it . 
Thou mayest stand excused , says Asgrim for thou art not in our debt for any service . 
My name is Hedinn , he says , but some men call me Skarphedinn by my full name but what more hast thou to say to me . 
Many have said that before , says Snorri , and I will not be angry at such words . 
After that they went out , and got no help there . 
Then they fared to the booths of the men of Skagafirth . 
the Wealthy had his booth . 
The mother of Hafr was named Thoruna , she was a daughter of Asbjorn Baldpate of Myrka , the son of Hrosbjorn . 
Asgrim and his band went into the booth , and Hafr sate in the midst of it , and was talking to a man . 
Asgrim went up to him , and bailed him well he took it kindly , and bade him sit down . 
This I would ask of thee , said Asgrim , that thou wouldst grant me and my sons in law help . 
Hafr answered sharp and quick , and said he would have nothing to do with their troubles . 
But still I must ask who that pale faced man is before whom four men go , so ill looking , as though he had come out of the sea crags . 
Let us go out , said Asgrim , there is no hope of help here . 
Then they went out to the booths of men of Modruvale , and asked whether Gudmund the Powerful were in the booth , but they were told he was . 
Then they went into the booth . 
There was a high seat in the midst of it , and there sate Gudmund the Powerful . 
Asgrim went and stood before him , and hailed him . 
Gudmund took his greeting well , and asked him to sit down . 
I will not sit , said Asgrim , but I wish to pray thee for help , for thou art a bold man and a mighty chief . 
Which is he ? says Asgrim . 
Four go before him , says Gudmund dark brown is his hair , and pale is his face tall of growth and sturdy . 
So quick and shifty in his manliness that I would rather have his following than that of ten other men but yet the man is unlucky looking . 
I know , said Skarphedinn , that thou speakest at me , but it does not go in the same way as to luck with me and thee . 
Then they went out , and Skarphedinn said , Whither shall we go now ? To the booths of the men of Lightwater , said Asgrim . 
There Thorkel Foulmouth had set up his booth . 
Thorkel Foulmouth had been abroad and worked his way to fame in other lands . 
, and struggled against him long but the end of it was that he slew the wild man . 
Thence he fared east into Adalsyssla , and there he slew a flying fire drake . 
He fought , too , on Lightwater way with his brothers against Gudmund the Powerful , and the men of Lightwater won the day . 
He and Thorir Helgi's son spread abroad bad stories about Gudmund . 
Thorkel said there was no man in Iceland with whom he would not fight in single combat , or yield an inch to , if need were . 
He was called Thorkel Foulmouth , because he spared no one with whom he had to do either in word or deed . 
This probably means a part of the Finnish coast in the Gulf of Bothnia . 
Wild man of the woods . 
In the original Finngalkn , a fabulous monster , half man and half beast . 
He was the most soldier like of men , and by that all men knew him . 
He went in his appointed place , and neither before nor behind . 
Now they went into the booth and into its inner chamber . 
Thorkel sate in the middle of the cross bench , and his men away from him on all sides . 
Then Asgrim held his peace , and thought it would be hard work to win him over . 
It never has befallen me to make my father bow down before me , or to have fought against him , as thou didst with thy father . 
Never have I aimed weapon at man that I have not smitten him . 
And with that he tore himself from his brothers , and Kari his brother in law , and strode forward to Thorkel . 
Then Thorkel sate him down and sheathed the sword , and such a thing never happened to him either before or since . 
Then Asgrim and his band go out , and Skarphedinn said , Whither shall we now go ? Home to our booths , answered Asgrim . 
Then we fare back to our booths wearied of begging , says Skarphedinn . 
Things , he said , draw on to what must be . 
Einar agreed to that , and sent and told Asgrim , and Asgrim said , There is no man like Gudmund for nobleness of mind , and then he told it to Njal . 
OF THE PLEADING OF THE SUIT The next day Asgrim , and Gizur the White , and Hjallti Skeggi's son , and Einar of Thvera , met together . 
There , too , was Mord Valgard's son he had then let the suit fall from his hand , and given it over to the sons of Sigfus . 
Thee first I speak to about this matter , Gizur the White and thee Hjallti , and thee Einar , that I may tell you how the suit stands . 
It seems to me , then , that this suit must come to naught by reason of a lawful flaw . 
Then we will plead it at once , says Hjallti . 
It is not good counsel , said Thorhall Asgrim's son , that this should not be hidden until the courts are set . 
How so ? asks Hjallti . 
Thou art a wise man , Thorhall , say they , and we will take thy counsel . 
After that each man went to his booth . 
But on the Friday night the courts were to go out to try suits , and so the Thing was quiet up to that day . 
Many sought to bring about an atonement between them , but Flosi was steadfast but others were still more wordy , and things looked ill . 
Now the time comes when the courts were to go out , on the Friday evening . 
Then the whole body of men at the Thing went to the courts . 
Flosi stood south at the court of the men of Rangriver , and his band with him . 
There with him was Hall of the Side , and Runolf of the Dale , Wolf Aurpriest's son , and those other men who had promised Flosi help . 
But north of the court of the men of Rangriver stood Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , and Gizur the White , Hjallti Skeggi's son , and Einar of Thvera . 
But Njal's sons were at home at their booth , and Kari and Thorleif Crow , and Thorgeir Craggeir , and Thorgrim the Big . 
They sate all with their weapons , and their band looked safe from onslaught . 
Njal had already prayed the judges to go into the court , and now the sons of Sigfus plead their suit . 
Of whom speakest thou this ? says Flosi . 
Gizur , and Hafr , and Einar , spoke each on their own part , and prayed Flosi to take an atonement , and promised him their friendship in return . 
Flosi answered them well in all things , but still did not give his word . 
I will grant it thee , father in law , said Flosi , for that alone wilt thou ask which will make my honour greater than it erewhile was . 
Methinks Njal is worthy that I should grant him this . 
Njal thanked him and all of them , and others who were by thanked them too , and said that Flosi had behaved well . 
Then men were sent after Snorri and Gudmund , for they were in their booths . 
Then it was given out that the judges in this award would sit in the Court of Laws , but all the others were to go away . 
ENDNOTES The true English word for arbitrator , or umpire . 
Neither is there any daysman betwixt us , that might lay his hand upon us both . 
They all spoke well of his words . 
Now ye shall change it , if ye think it too much or too little . 
They said that they would change it in nothing . 
This too shall be added , he said , that all the money shall be paid down here at the Thing . 
Then Gizur the White spoke and said , Methinks that can hardly be , for they will not have enough money to pay their fines . 
Hall of the Side thanked him , and said he would willingly give as much as any one else gave , and then all the other daysmen agreed to that . 
After that they went away , and settled between them that Hall should utter the award at the Hill of Laws . 
But it is my prayer to all the people that each man will give something for God's sake . 
All answered well to that , and then Hall took witness to the award , that no one should be able to break it . 
Njal thanked them for their award , but Skarphedinn stood by , and held his peace , and smiled scornfully . 
Then men went from the Hill of Laws and to their booths , but the daysmen gathered together in the freemen's churchyard the money which they had promised to give . 
Njal's sons handed over that money which they had by them , and Kari did the same , and that came to a hundred in silver . 
Njal took out that money which he had with him , and that was another hundred in silver . 
So this money was all brought before the Hill of Laws , and then men gave so much , that not a penny was wanting . 
Then Njal took a silken scarf and a pair of boots and laid them on the top of the heap . 
I will therefore ask you this , my sons , not to spoil these things in any way . 
Skarphedinn stroked his brow , and smiled scornfully . 
So they all go to the Court of Laws . 
Then Flosi bade the sons of Sigfus to go up with him , and they all went out of their booths . 
They came from the east , but Njal went from the west to the Court of Laws , and his sons with him . 
Skarphedinn went to the middle bench and stood there . 
After that he took up the scarf , and waved it , and asked , Who may have given this ? But no man answered him . 
A second time he waved the scarf , and asked , Who may have given this ? and laughed , but no man answered him . 
Such words are ill spoken , said Skarphedinn , to make game of him , an old man , and no man of any worth has ever done so before . 
Then Skarphedinn took to himself the silken scarf , but threw a pair of blue breeks to Flosi , and said he would need them more . 
Then Flosi would neither give nor take peace , and he said to the sons of Sigfus , Go we now home one fate shall befall us all . 
Then they went home to their booth , and Hall said , Here most unlucky men have a share in this suit . 
Not so , says Skarphedinn they can never pursue us by the laws of the land . 
Then that will happen , says Njal , which will be worse for all of us . 
That is well spoken , they said and then no one would take it back . 
Hjallti took half the money and kept it safe , but Gizur took the rest . 
Then men went home to their booths . 
AN ATTACK PLANNED ON NJAL AND HIS SONS Flosi summoned all his men up to the Great Rift , and went thither himself . 
So when all his men were come , there were one hundred and twenty of them . 
This , said Flosi , will I promise to you , ye sons of Sigfus , not to part from this quarrel before one of us bites the dust before the other . 
I will also know whether there be any man here who will not stand by us in this quarrel . 
But they all said they would stand by him . 
Then Flosi said , Come now all to me , and swear an oath that no man will shrink from this quarrel . 
I will not swell our company beyond those which have now taken the oath , for we have enough and to spare if all keep true tryst . 
There shall ye then be all come who have sworn an oath in this matter . 
Ye shall hide this plan , for our lives lie on it . 
And now we will take to our horses and ride home . 
Then they all went to their booths . 
After that Flosi made them saddle his horses , and they waited for no man , and rode home . 
Flosi would not stay to meet Hall his father in law , for he knew of a surety that Hall would set his face against all strong deeds . 
Njal rode home from the Thing and his sons . 
They were at home that summcr . 
Njal asked Kari his son in law whether he thought at all of riding east to Dyrholms to his own house . 
I will not ride east , answered Kari , for one fate shall befall me and thy sons . 
Njal thanked him , and said that was only what was likely from him . 
There were nearly thirty fighting men in Njal's house , reckoning the house carles . 
One day it happened that Rodny Hauskuld's daughter , the mother of Hauskuld Njal's son , came to the Springs . 
Her brother Ingialld greeted her well , but she would not take his greeting , but yet bade him go out with her . 
Ingialld did so , and went out with her and so they walked away from the farm yard both together . 
A very great dastard art thou , she says , thou , whom Njal hath thrice saved from outlawry . 
Well ! answers Ingialld , so it shall be that I will not be against Njal whatever follows after , but still I know that they will turn and throw trouble on me . 
Now mightest thou , said Rodny , yield Njal and his sons great help , if thou tellest him all these plans . 
She fared home , but he told this to his sons . 
There was a carline at Bergthorsknoll , whose name was Saevuna . 
It fell one day that she took a cudgel in her hand , and went up above the house to a stack of vetches . 
This stack of vetches , said the carline , will be taken and lighted with fire when Njal my master is burnt , house and all , and Bergthorn my foster child . 
Take it away to the water , or burn it up as quick as you can . 
We will not do that , says Skarphedinn , for something else will be got to light a fire with , if that were foredoomed , though this stack were not here . 
The carline babbled the whole summer about the vetchstack that it should be got indoors , but something always hindered it . 
OF PORTENTS At Reykium on Skeid dwelt one Runolf Thorstein's son . 
His son's name was Hildiglum . 
He went out on the night of the Lord's day , when nine weeks were still to winter he heard a great crash , so that he thought both heaven and earth shook . 
Then he looked into the west airt , and he thought he saw thereabouts a ring of fiery hue , and within the ring a man on a grey horse . 
He passed quickly by him , and rode hard . 
He had a flaming firebrand in his hand , and he rode so close to him that he could see him plainly . 
It seemed as though that man rode east among the flames and vanished there . 
After that he went to his bed , and was senseless a long time , but at last he came to himself . 
He bore in mind all that had happened , and told his father , but he bade him tell it to Hjallti Skeggi's son . 
So he went and told Hjallti , but he said he had seen the Wolf's ride , and that comes ever before great tidings . 
FLOSI'S JOURNEY FROM HOME Flosi busked him from the east when two months were still to winter , and summoned to him all his men who had promised him help and company . 
Each of them had two horses and good weapons , and they all came to Swinefell , and were there that night . 
Flosi made them say prayers betimes on the Lord's day , and afterwards they sate down to meat . 
He spoke to his household , and told them what work each was to do while he was away . 
After that he went to his horses . 
Flosi and his men rode first west on the Sand . 
They rode west to Woodcombe , and came to Kirkby . 
Flosi there bade all men to come into the church , and pray to God , and men did so . 
on the second day of the week to Threecorner ridge , and waited till mid even . 
Then all had came thither save Ingialld of the Springs . 
The sons of Sigfus spoke much ill of him , but Flosi bade them not blame Ingialld when he was not by , But we will pay him for this hereafter . 
ENDNOTES Sand , Skeidara sand . 
Nones , the well known canonical hour of the day , the ninth hour from six a . 
, that is , about three o'clock when one of the church services took place . 
OF PORTENTS AT BERGTHORSKNOLL Now we must take up the story , and turn to Bergthorsknoll , and say that Grim and Helgi go to Holar . 
They had children out at foster there , and they told their mother that they should not come home that evening . 
They were in Holar all the day , and there came some poor women and said they had come from far . 
Those brothers asked them for tidings , and they said they had no tidings to tell , But still we might tell you one bit of news . 
They asked what that might be , and bade them not hide it . 
They said so it should be . 
We came down out of Fleetlithe , and we saw all the sons of Sigfus riding fully armed they made for Threecorner ridge , and were fifteen in company . 
We saw too Grani Gunnar's son and Gunnar Lambi's son , and they were five in all . 
They took the same road , and one may say now that the whole country side is faring and flitting about . 
Grim said so it ought to be , and they fared home . 
That shall not be , they said . 
After that she set meat on the board , and Njal said Wondrously now it seems to me . 
All thought this strange but Skarphedinn , he bade men not be downcast , nor to utter other unseemly sounds , so that men might make a story out of them . 
For it befits us surely more than other men to bear us well , and it is only what is looked for from us . 
Grim and Helgi came home ere the board was cleared , and men were much struck at that . 
Njal asked why they had returned so quickly but they told what they had heard . 
Njal bade no man go to sleep , but to be ware of themselves . 
ON BERGTHORSKNOLL Now Flosi speaks to his men , Now we will ride to Bergthorsknoll , and come thither before supper time . 
There was a dell in the knoll , and they rode thither , and tethered their horses there , and stayed there till the evening was far spent . 
Then Flosi said , Now we will go straight up to the house , and keep close , and walk slow , and see what counsel they will take . 
Then is our journey bad , says Grani Gunnar's son , if we are not to dare to fall on them . 
Njal said to his men , See ye now what a great band of men they have . 
Besides , I am unwilling to let myself be stifled indoors like a fox in his earth . 
Let us do , said Helgi , as our father wills that will be best for us . 
Then he said to Kari , Let us stand by one another well , brother in law , so that neither parts from the other . 
Avenge us , and we will avenge thee , says Skarphedinn , if we live after thee . 
Kari said so it should be . 
Then they all went in , and stood in array at the door . 
So Flosi and his men came up to the house , and set men to watch round the house , if there were any secret doors in it . 
But Flosi went up to the front of the house with his men . 
Then Hroald Auzur's son ran up to where Skarphedinn stood , and thrust at him . 
Little chance had that one with thee , Skarphedinn , said Kari , and thou art our boldest . 
I'm not so sure of that , says Skarphedinn , and he drew up his lips and smiled . 
Kari , and Grim , and Helgi , threw out many spears , and wounded many men but Flosi and his men could do nothing . 
At last Flosi said , We have already gotten great manscathe in our men many are wounded , and he slain whom we would choose last of all . 
I say this most to Grani Gunnar's son , and Gunnar Lambi's son , who were the least willing to spare their foes . 
But still we shall have to take to some other plan for ourselves , and now there are but two choices left , and neither of them good . 
The Icelandic word is heimsokn , a term which still lingers in the grave offence known in Scottish law as hamesucken . 
NJAL'S BURNING Now they took fire , and made a great pile before the doors . 
Thou repayest me , said Skarphedinn , as one may look for from the man that thou art . 
I avenged thy father , and thou settest most store by that duty which is farthest from thee . 
Then the women threw whey on the fire , and quenched it as fast as they lit it . 
Some , too , brought water , or slops . 
Then they took the vetch stack and set fire to it , and they who were inside were not aware of it till the whole hall was a blaze over their heads . 
Then Flosi and his men made a great pile before each of the doors , and then the women folk who were inside began to weep and to wail . 
Such words of comfort had he for them all , and others still more strong . 
Now the whole house began to blaze . 
Then Njal went to the door and said , Is Flosi so near that he can hear my voice . 
Flosi said that he could hear it . 
Wilt thou , said Njal , take an atonement from my sons , or allow any men to go out . 
Go , and good go with thee , said Njal , for thou art a brave woman . 
After that she went out and much folk with her . 
Then Astrid of Deepback said to Helgi Njal's son , Come thou out with me , and I will throw a woman's cloak over thee , and tie thy head with a kerchief . 
He spoke against it at first , but at last he did so at the prayer of others . 
But when Helgi came out Flosi said , That is a tall woman and broad across the shoulders that went yonder , take her and hold her . 
But when Helgi heard that , he cast away the cloak . 
Then Flosi came up and hewed at Helgi's neck , and took off his head at a stroke . 
Then Flosi went to the door and called out to Njal , and said he would speak with him and Bergthora . 
Now Njal does so , and Flosi said , I will offer thee , master Njal , leave to go out , for it is unworthy that thou shouldst burn indoors . 
I will not go out , said Njal , for I am an old man , and little fitted to avenge my sons , but I will not live in shame . 
Then Flosi said to Bergthora , Come thou out , housewife , for I will for no sake burn thee indoors . 
I was given away to Njal young , said Bergthora , and I have promised him this , that we would both share the same fate . 
After that they both went back into the house . 
What counsel shall we now take , said Bergthora . 
We will go to our bed , says Njal , and lay us down I have long been eager for rest . 
Then she said to the boy Thord , Kari's son , Thee will I take out , and thou shalt not burn in here . 
There had been an ox slaughtered and the hide lay there . 
Njal told the steward to spread the hide over them , and he did so . 
So there they lay down both of them in their bed , and put the boy between them . 
Then they signed themselves and the boy with the cross , and gave over their souls into God's hand , and that was the last word that men heard them utter . 
Then the steward took the hide and spread it over them , and went out afterwards . 
Kettle of the Mark caught hold of him , and dragged him out , he asked carefully after his father in law Njal , but the steward told him the whole truth . 
Then Kettle said , Great grief hath been sent on us , when we have had to share such ill luck together . 
Then Skarphedinn , and Kari , and Grim , caught the brands as fast as they dropped down , and hurled them out at them , and so it went on awhile . 
Then they hurled spears in at them , but they caught them all as they flew , and sent them back again . 
Then Flosi bade them cease shooting , for all feats of arms will go hard with us when we deal with them ye may well wait till the fire overcomes them . 
So they do that , and shoot no more . 
Then the great beams out of the roof began to fall , and Skarphedinn said , Now must my father be dead , and I have neither heard groan nor cough from him . 
Then they went to the end of the hall , and there had fallen down a cross beam inside which was much burnt in the middle . 
Thou shalt leap first , said Skarphedinn but I will leap straightway on thy heels . 
That is not wise , says Kari , for I can get out well enough elsewhere , though it does not come about here . 
I will not do that , says Skarphedinn leap thou out first , but I will leap after thee at once . 
It joys me , brother in law , says Skarphedinn , to think that if thou gettest away thou wilt avenge me . 
After that they had no more mistrust . 
Kari ran till he came to a stream , and then he threw himself down into it , and so quenched the fire on him . 
After that he ran along under shelter of the smoke into a hollow , and rested him there , and that has since been called Kari's Hollow . 
Then Skarphedinn said , Now one can see what will come and then he went along the side wall . 
Then Gunnar fell down from the roof . 
Then Skarphedinn went to the end of the house , and then there was a great crash , and down fell the roof . 
Skarphedinn was then shut in between it and the gable , and so he could not stir a step thence . 
Flosi and his band stayed by the fire until it was broad daylight then came a man riding up to them . 
Flosi asked him for his name , but he said his name was Geirmund , and that he was a kinsman of the sons of Sigfus . 
Ye have done a mighty deed , he says . 
Men , said Flosi , will call it both a mighty deed and an ill deed , but that can't be helped now . 
How many men have lost their lives here ? asks Geirmund . 
Thou tellest him now dead , said Geirmund , with whom we have gossiped this morning . 
Who is that ? says Flosi . 
What said he of Skarphedinn ? said Flosi . 
He said both he and Grim were alive , answers Geirmund , when they parted but he said that now they must be dead . 
They thanked him for his offer , and said they would be glad to take it . 
now is glutted Vengeance for brave Hauskuld's death , Brisk flew fire through thy dwelling , Bright flames blazed above thy roof . 
We shall have to boast of something else than that Njal has been burnt in his house , says Flosi , for there is no glory in that . 
Then he went up on the gable , and Glum Hilldir's son , and some other men . 
Then Glum said , Is Skarphedinn dead , indeed ? But the others said he must have been dead long ago . 
Can Skarphedinn , think ye , have sung this song dead or alive ? said Grani Gunnar's son . 
I will go into no guesses about that , says Flosi . 
We will look for Skarphedinn , says Grani , and the other men who have been here burnt inside the house . 
Then Flosi went hastily to his horse and all his men . 
Then Flosi said to Geirmund , Is Ingialld , thinkest thou , at home at the Springs ? Geirmund said he thought he must be at home . 
There now is a man , says Flosi , who has broken his oath with us and all good faith . 
Then Flosi jumped on his horse , and all the others , and they rode away . 
Flosi rode first , and shaped his course for Rangriver , and up along the river bank . 
Then he saw a man riding down on the other bank of the river and he knew that there was Ingialld of the Springs . 
Flosi calls out to him . 
Ingialld halted and turned down to the river bank and Flosi said to him , Thou hast broken faith with us , and hast forfeited life and goods . 
Bide thou there , says Flosi , if thou art not a coward , for I will send thee a gift . 
I will bide of a surety , says Ingialld . 
Then Flosi said to Ingialld , Did it touch thee ? It touched me sure enough , says Ingialld , but I call this a scratch and not a wound . 
Then Ingialld plucked the spear out of the wound , and said to Flosi , Now bide thou , if thou art not a milksop . 
Then he launched the spear back over the river . 
Now Ingialld runs for the wood , and they could not get at him . 
Then Flosi said to his men , Now have we gotten manscathe , and now we may know , when such things befall us , into what a luckless state we have got . 
Son of Gollnir , Njal , who was the son of Thorgeir Gelling or Gollnir . 
My friends , ironically of course . 
Thence Kari rode to Mord , and told him the tidings , and he was greatly grieved . 
Kari said there were other things more befitting a man than to weep for them dead , and bade him rather gather folk and come to Holtford . 
After that he rode into Thurso dale to Hjallti Skeggi's son , and as he went along Thurso water , he sees a man riding fast behind him . 
Kari waited for the man , and knows that he was Ingialld of the Springs . 
He sees that he is very bloody about the thigh and Kari asked Ingialld who had wounded him , and he told him . 
Where met ye two ? says Kari . 
By Rangwater side , says Ingialld , and he threw a spear over at me . 
Didst thou aught for it ? asks Kari . 
I threw the spear back , says Ingialld , and they said that it met a man , and he was dead at once . 
Knowest thou not , said Kari , who the man was ? Methought he was like Thorstein Flosi's brother's son , says Ingialld . 
Good luck go with thy hand , says Kari . 
After that they rode both together to see Hjallti Skeggi's son , and told him the tidings . 
He took these deeds ill , and said there was the greatest need to ride after them and slay them all . 
Thence they rode north to Sand . 
Some too rode as far as Fishwaters , and there turned back . 
Some the coast road east to Holt , and told Thorgeir the tidings , and asked whether they had not ridden by there . 
Now they ride back , and all met at Hof and talked there among themselves , and said that they had gotten disgrace since they had not found them . 
Alord said that was not so . 
That , he said , would be the greatest folly . 
They asked why he said that . 
Hjallti bade him do as he said . 
Then Hjallti bade Kari to come and stay with him , he said he would ride thither first . 
After that the whole band broke up . 
The sons of Sigfus asked whether it would be worth while to get to their homes and tell the news . 
So every man took that counsel , and then they all rode east and north of the Jokul , and so on till they came to Swinefell . 
Flosi sent at once men out to get in stores , so that nothing might fall short . 
Folsi never spoke about the deed , but no fear was found in him , and he was at home the whole winter till Yule was over . 
NJAL'S AND BERGTHORA'S BONES FOUND Kari bade Hjallti to go and search for Njal's bones , For all will believe in what thou sayest and thinkest about them . 
Hjallti said he would be most willing to bear Njal's bones to church so they rode thence fifteen men . 
They rode east over Thurso water , and called on men there to come with them till they had one hundred men , reckoning Njal's neighbours . 
They came to Bergthorsknoll at mid day . 
Hjallti asked Kari under what part of the house Njal might be lying , but Kari showed them to the spot , and there was a great heap of ashes to dig away . 
There they found the hide underneath , and it was as though it were shrivelled with the fire . 
They raised up the hide , and lo ! they were unburnt under it . 
All praised God for that , and thought it was a great token . 
Then the boy was taken up who had lain between them , and of him a finger was burnt off which he had stretched out from under the hide . 
Njal was home out , and so was Bergthora , and then all men went to see their bodies . 
Then Hjallti said , What like look to you these bodies ? They answered , We will wait for thy utterance . 
Then Hjallti said , I shall speak what I say with all freedom of speech . 
They all said they thought so too . 
I see a man , said Kari , who shall bear the axe . 
Who is that ? says Hjallti . 
Thorgeir Craggeir , says Kari , he whom I now think to be the greatest man in all their family . 
Then Skarphedinn was stripped of his clothes , for they were unburnt , he had laid his hands in a cross , and the right hand uppermost . 
All men said that they thought that it was better to be near Skarphedinn dead than they weened , for no man was afraid of him . 
They sought for the bones of Grim , and found them in the midst of the hall . 
They found , too , there , right over against him under the side wall , Thord Freedmanson but in the weaving room they found Saevuna the carline , and three men more . 
In all they found there the bones of nine souls . 
Now they carried the bodies to the church , and then Hjallti rode home and Kari with him . 
A swelling came on Ingialld's leg , and then he fared to Hjallti , and was healed there , but still he limped ever afterwards . 
Kari rode to Tongue to Asgrim Ellidagrim's son . 
By that time Thorhalla was come home , and she had already told the tidings . 
Asgrim took Kari by both hands , and bade him be there all that year . 
Kari said so it should be . 
Asgrim asked besides all the folk who had been in the house at Bergthorsknoll to stay with him . 
Kari said that was well offered , and said he would take it on their behalf . 
Then all the folk were flitted thither . 
But when others said that no one would think this a shame to him , he said he could not stop the mouths of the people from talking about it . 
Asgrim asked Kari what trust and help he thought he might look for from those east of the rivers . 
Kari said that Mord Valgard's son , and Hjallti Skeggi's son , would yield him all the help they could , and so , too , would Thorgeir Craggeir and all those brothers . 
Asgrim said that was great strength . 
What strength shall we have from thee ? says Kari . 
All that I can give , says Asgrim , and I will lay down my life on it . 
So do , says Kari . 
I have also , says Asgrim , brought Gizur the White into the suit , and have asked his advice how we shall set about it . 
What advice did he give ? asks Kari . 
Then Kari said , We will follow thy counsel as long as we can , and thou shalt lead us . 
It is to be told of Kari that he could not sleep of nights . 
Kari spoke of no men so often as of Njal and Skarphedinn , and Bergthora and Helgi . 
He never abused his foes , and never threatened them . 
FLOSI'S DREAM One night it so happened that Flosi struggled much in his sleep . 
Glum Hildir's son woke him up , and then Flosi said , Call me Kettle of the Mark . 
Kettle came thither , and Flosi said , I will tell thee my dream . 
I am ready to hear it , says Kettle . 
He called , as he walked , on many of my men , some sooner and some later , and named them by name . 
First he called Grim the Red my kinsman , and Ami Kol's son . 
Then methought something strange followed , methought he called Eyjolf Bolverk's son , and Ljot son of Hall of the Side , and some six men more . 
Then he held his peace awhile . 
Then he called three men . 
Last of all he called Gunnar Lambi's son , and Kol Tborstein's son . 
After that he came up to me I asked him What news ? He said he had tidings enough to tell . 
Then I asked him for his name , but he called himself Irongrim . 
I asked him whither he was going he said he had to fare to the Althing . 
What shalt thou do there ? I said . 
First I shall challenge the inquest , he answers , and then the courts , then clear the field for fighters . 
Then he shouted with such a mighty shout that methought everything near shook , and dashed down his staff , and there was a mighty crash . 
Then he went back into the fell , but fear clung to me and now I wish thee to tell me what thou thinkest this dream is . 
It is my foreboding , says Kettle , that all those who were called must be fey . 
It seems to me good counsel that we tell this dream to no man just now . 
Flosi said so it should be . 
Now the winter passes away till Yule was over . 
Then Flosi said to his men , Now I mean that we should fare from home , for methinks we shall not be able to have an idle peace . 
OF FLOSI'S JOURNEY AND HIS ASKING FOR HELP After that they busked them from home all together . 
Flosi was in long hose because he meant to go on foot , and then he knew that it would seem less hard to the others to walk . 
Flosi had to wife Steinvora , his daughter . 
But my help I am bound to lend thee in all such places as I may . 
What counsel dost thou give me , said Flosi , in the strait in which I now am . 
Flosi stayed there three nights , and rested him , and fared thence east to Geitahellna , and so to Berufirth there they were the night . 
Thence they fared east to Broaddale in Haydale . 
There Hallbjorn the Strong dwelt . 
He had to wife Oddny the sister of Saurli Broddhelgi's son , and Flosi had a hearty welcome there . 
Hallbjorn asked how far north among the firths Flosi meant to go . 
He said he meant to go as far as Weaponfirth . 
Then Flosi took a purse of money from his belt , and said he would give it to Hallbjorn . 
He took the money , but yet said he had no claim on Flosi for gifts , But still I would be glad to know in what thou wilt that I repay thee . 
I will grant thee that , said Hallbjorn , to ride to the Thing with thee , and to stand by thee in thy quarrel as I would by my brother . 
Flosi thanked him , and Hallbjorn asked much about the burning , but they told him all about it at length . 
Thence Flosi fared to Broaddale's heath , and so to Hrafnkelstede , there dwelt Hrafnkell , the son of Thorir , the son of Hrafnkell Raum . 
Flosi thanked him and fared away to Bersastede . 
There Holmstein son of Bersi the Wise dwelt , and he gave Flosi a very hearty welcome . 
Flosi begged him for help . 
Holmstein said he had been long in his debt for help . 
Thence they fared to Waltheofstede there Saurli Broddhelgi's son , Bjarni's brother , dwelt . 
He had to wife Thordisa , a daughter of Gudmund the Powerful , of Modruvale . 
They had a hearty welcome there . 
But next morning Flosi raised the question with Saurli that he should ride to the Althing with him , and bid him money for it . 
Oh ! said Flosi , I see by thy answer that a woman rules in this house . 
Then Flosi stood up and bade his men take their upper clothing and weapons , and then they fared away , and got no help there . 
The mother of Thorkel the Allwise and Thorwalld was Yngvillda , daughter of Thorkel the Wise . 
Their mother Yngvillda was by when they gave their words to ride to the Althing , and wept . 
They laughed and told her she had lost her wits , and said her babble should not stand in the way of their ride to the Thing . 
Flosi thanked them kindly , and fared thence to Weaponfirth and came to Hof . 
There dwelt Bjarni Broddhelgi's son . 
Bjarni took Flosi by both hands , and Flosi bade Bjarni money for his help . 
Then thou hast thrown a great load of debt on my hands , said Flosi , but still I looked for as much from thee . 
Thence Flosi and his men fared to Crosswick . 
Thorkell Geitis' son was a great friend of his . 
Flosi told him his errand , and Thorkel said it was but his duty to stand by him in every way in his power , and not to part from his quarrel . 
Thorkel gave Flosi good gifts at parting . 
Thence they fared north to Weaponfirth and up into the Fleetdale country , and turned in as guests at Holmstein's , the son of Bersi the Wise . 
Flosi told him that all had backed him in his need and business well , save Saurli Broddhelgi's son . 
Holmstein said the reason of that was that he was not a man of strife . 
Holmstein gave Flosi good gifts . 
There he stayed half a month , and his men with him and rested him . 
Flosi asked Hall what counsel he would now give him , and what he should do next , and whether he should change his plans . 
But first of all fare home , and when ye ride to the Thing , ride all together , and do not scatter your band . 
Then let the sons of Sigfus go to see their wives on the way . 
I too will ride to the Thing , and Ljot my son with all our Thing men , and stand by thee with such force as I can gather to me . 
Flosi thanked him , and Hall gave him good gifts at parting . 
Then Flosi went away from Thvattwater , and nothing is to be told of his journey till he comes home to Swinefell . 
There he stayed at home the rest of the winter , and all the summer right up to the Thing . 
Broddhelgi was the son of Thorgil , the son of Thorstein the White , the son of Oliver , the son of Eyvalld , the son of Oxen Thorir . 
The mother of Bjarni was Halla , the daughter of Lyting . 
The mother of Broddhelgi was Asvora , the daughter of Thorir , the son of Porridge Atli , the son of Thorir Thidrandi . 
Once it happened as they and Gizur talked of Njal's burning , that Gizur said it was very great luck that Kari had got away . 
Then a song came into Kari's mouth . 
Then Gizur said , It must be forgiven thee that thou art mindful , and so we will talk no more about it just now . 
Kari says that he will ride home and Gizur said , I will now make a clean breast of my counsel to thee . 
Thou shalt not ride home , but still thou shalt ride away , and east under Eyjafell , to see Thorgeir Craggeir , and Thorleif Crow . 
They shall ride from the east with thee . 
They are the next of kin in the suit , and with them shall ride Thorgrim the Big , their brother . 
Ye shall ride to Mord Valgard's son's house , and tell him this message from me , that he shall take up the suit for manslaughter for Helgi Njal's son against Flosi . 
Kari thanked him for his counsel . 
Kari spoke nothing of help to him , for he thought he would show himself his good friend in this as in other things . 
Thence Kari rode east over the rivers , and so to Fleetlithe , and east across Markfleet , and so on to Selialandsmull . 
So they ride east to Holt . 
Thorgeir welcomed them with the greatest kindliness . 
He told them of Flosi's journey , and how great help he had got in the east firths . 
Kari said it was no wonder that he , who had to answer for so much , should ask for help for himself . 
Then Thorgeir said , The better things go for them , the worse it shall be for them we will only follow them up so much the harder . 
Kari told Thorgeir of Gizur's advice . 
After that they ride from the east to Rangrivervale to Mord Valgard's son's house . 
He gave them a hearty welcome . 
Kari told him the message of Gizur his father in law . 
He was slow to take the duty on him , and said it was harder to go to law with Flosi than with any other ten men . 
She busked her at once , and said she had long been boun to part from Mord . 
Then he changed his mood and his words quickly , and begged off their wrath , and took the suit upon him at once . 
Now , said Kari , thou has taken the suit upon thee , see that thou pleadest it without fear , for thy life lies on it . 
Mord said he would lay his whole heart on it to do this well and manfully . 
After that Mord summoned to him nine neighbours , they were all near neighbours to the spot where the deed was done . 
Thou handest over to me this suit to plead and to settle , and to enjoy all rights in it , as though I were the rightful next of kin . 
Thou handest it over to me by law , and I take it from thee by law . 
I give notice of this before five witnesses here he named them all by name I give this lawful notice . 
I give notice of a suit which Thorgeir Thorir's son has handed over to me . 
I give notice of this before five neighbours then he named them all by name I give this lawful notice . 
I give notice of a suit which Thorgeir Thorir's son has handed over to me . 
Now they parted with friendship , and settled to meet again at the Thing . 
Now Thorgeir rides back east , but Kari rides west over the rivers till he came to Tongue , to Asgrim's house . 
He welcomed them wonderfully well , and Kari told Asgrim all Gizur the White's plan , and of the setting on foot of the suit . 
I looked for as much from him , says Asgrim , that he would behave well , and now he has shown it . 
They look , too , for help from the Reykdalesmen , and the men of Lightwater , and the Axefirthers . 
Then they talked much about it , and so the time passes away up to the Althing . 
He was the third greatest lawyer in all Iceland . 
Thou wilt treat him best and kindest , as he is footlame , but we shall stand in the greatest need of him at this Thing . 
With you two , twenty men more shall ride . 
After that they made ready for their journey , and then they rode to the Thing , and set up their booths , and fitted them out well . 
ENDNOTES Helmet hewer , sword . 
OF FLOSI AND THE BURNERS Flosi rode from the east and those hundred and twenty men who had been at the burning with him . 
They rode till they came to Fleetlithe . 
Then the sons of Sigfus looked after their homesteads and tarried there that day , but at even they rode west over Thurso water , and slept there that night . 
But next morning early they saddled their horses and rode off on their way . 
Then Flosi said to his men , Now will we ride to Tongue to Asgrim to breakfast , and trample down his pride a little . 
They said that were well done . 
They rode till they had a short way to Tongue . 
Asgrim stood out of doors , and some men with him . 
They see the band as soon as ever they could do so from the house . 
Then Asgrim's men said , There must be Thorgeir Craggeir . 
Not he , said Asgrim . 
My meaning is that it must be Flosi and the burners with him , and they must mean to humble us with insults , and we will now go indoors all of us . 
Now they do so , and Asgrim made them sweep the house and put up the hangings , and set the boards and put meat on them . 
He made them place stools along each bench , all down the room . 
Flosi rode into the town , and bade men alight from their horses and go in . 
They did so , and Flosi and his men went into the hall . 
Asgrim sate on the cross bench on the dais . 
Flosi looked at the benches and saw that all was made ready that men needed to have . 
Asgrim gave them no greeting , but said to Flosi , The boards are set , so that meat may be free to those that need it . 
Flosi sat down to the board , and all his men but they laid their arms up against the wainscot . 
They sat on the stools who found no room on the benches but four men stood with weapons just before where Flosi sat while they ate . 
Asgrim kept his peace during the meat , but was as red to look on as blood . 
But when they were full , some women cleared away the boards , while others brought in water to wash their hands . 
Flosi was in no greater hurry than if he had been at home . 
There lay a pole axe in the corner of the dais . 
Asgrim caught it up with both hands , and ran up to the rail at the edge of the dais , and made a blow at Flosi's head . 
Then Flosi said to Asgrim , Here , now , we shall part safe and sound , and meet at the Thing , and there begin our quarrel over again . 
So it will be , says Asgrim and I would wish that , ere this Thing be over , ye should have to take in some of your sails . 
Flosi answered him never a word , and then they went out , and mounted their horses , and rode away . 
There was Hall of the Side , and all the Eastfirthers . 
Flosi gretted them well , and told them of his journeys and dealings with Asgrim . 
Many praised him for that , and said such things were bravely done . 
It was seen from Hall's way that he thought this deed far too strong . 
They rode thence all together , till they came to the Upper Field , and there they set their men in array , and rode down on the Thing . 
Flosi had made them fit out Byrgir's booth ere be rode to the Thing but the Eastfirthers rode to their own booths . 
OF THORGEIR CRAGGEIR Thorgeir Craggier rode from the east with much people . 
His brothers were with him , Thorleif Crow and Thorgrim the Big . 
They came to Hof , to Mord Valgard's son's house , and bided there till he was ready . 
Then they waited for Hjallti Skeggi's son . 
Then they rode west across Bridgewater . 
Then Asgrim told them all that had passed between him and Flosi and Thorgeir said , I would that we might try their bravery ere the Thing closes . 
They rode until they came to Baitvale . 
There Gizur the White came to meet them with a very great company , and they fell to talking together . 
Then they rode to the Upper Field , and drew up all their men in array there , and so rode to the Thing . 
Flosi and his men all took to their arms , and it was within an ace that they would fall to blows . 
Thither were come chiefs from all the Quarters of the land there had never been such a crowded Thing before , that men could call to mind . 
OF EYJOLF BOLVERK'S SON There was a man named Eyjolf . 
He was the son of Bolverk , the son of Eyjolf the Guileful , of Otterdale . 
Eyjolf was a man of great rank , and best skilled in law of all men , so that some said he was the third best lawyer in Iceland . 
He was the fairest in face of all men , tall and strong , and there was the making of a great chief in him . 
He was greedy of money , like the rest of his kinsfolk . 
One day Flosi went to the booth of Bjarni Broddhelgi's son . 
Bjarni took him by both hands , and sat Flosi down by his side . 
Flosi said he knew nothing about who were the best lawyers . 
We must also go with our arms to all law business , and be most wary of ourselves , but not meddle with them before we are forced to fight for our lives . 
And now I will go with thee , and set out at once on our begging for help , for now methinks the peace will be kept but a little while longer . 
After that they go out of the booth , and to the booths of the Axefirthers . 
Then Bjarni talks with Lyting and Bleing , and Hroi Arnstein's son , and he got speedily whatever he asked of them . 
Then they went to the booths of the men of Lightwater , and stayed there some time . 
Then Bjarni said to Flosi , Well done ! Well done ! Thou art a mighty chief , and a bold outspoken man , and reckest little what thou savest to men . 
After that they fared away west across the river , and so to the Hladbooth . 
They saw many men outside before the booth . 
There was one man who had a scarlet cloak over his shoulders , and a gold band round his head , and an axe studded with silver in his hand . 
This is just right , said Bjarni , here now is the man I spoke of , Eyjolf Bolverk's son , if thou wilt see him , Flosi . 
Then they went to meet Eyjolf , and hailed him . 
Eyjolf knew Bjarni at once , and greeted him well . 
Bjarni took Eyjolf by the hand , and led him up into the Great Rift . 
Flosi's and Bjarni's men followed after , and Eyjolf's men went also with him . 
Flosi said it was a good spot to sit down there , for they could see around them far and wide . 
Then they sat them down there . 
They were four of them together , and no more . 
Then Bjarni spoke to Eyjolf , and said Thee , friend , have we come to see , for we much need thy help in every way . 
Thou speakest well , Bjarni , said Evjolf but I think that I have small share in all this that thou savest . 
Then Flosi said , There is no need beating about the bush as to what we have in mind . 
I see , too , now , he says , what has led you to utter all those fair words with which ye began to speak to me . 
Then Flosi drew a gold ring off his arm . 
This ring will I give thee , Eyjolf , for thy help and friendship , and so show thee that I will not befool thee . 
It will be best for thee to take the ring , for there is no man here at the Thing to whom I have ever given such a gift . 
The ring was such a good one , and so well made , that it was worth twelve hundred yards of russet stuff . 
So he took upon him all the proofs and proceedings which belonged to those suits , whether they were to be pleaded before the Quarter Court or the Fifth Court . 
Snorri the Priest caught hold of Eyjolf's arm , and turned up the sleeve , and sees that he had a great ring of gold on his arm . 
Then Snorri the Priest said , Pray , was this ring bought or given ? Eyjolf was put out about it , and had never a word to say . 
Then Eyjolf went to his booth . 
Eyjolf the Guileful was the son of Thord Gellir , the son of Oleif Feilan . 
The mother of Eyjolf the Guileful was Rodny , the daughter of Skeggi of Midfirth . 
Now I will ask you if ye know anything of their plans , for if you do , it seems to me that we must take fresh counsel about our own plans . 
They were all agreed that it must be so . 
We shall need also to ask for more help . 
Asgrim said so it should be , but we will beg thee to go round with us when we ask for help . 
Gizur said he would be ready to do that . 
After that Gizur picked out all the wisest men of their company to go with him as his backers . 
There was Hjallti Skeggi's son , and Asgrim , and Kari , and Thorgeir Craggeir . 
Then Gizur the White said , Now will we first go to the booth of Skapti Thorod's son , and they do so . 
Gizur the White went first , then Hjallti , then Kari , then Asgrim , then Thorgeir Craggeir , and then his brothers . 
They went into the booth . 
Then Gizur said to Asgrim , Now shalt thou first raise the question of help with Skapti , but I will throw in what I think good . 
We are come hither , said Asgrim , for this sake , Skapti , to seek help and aid at thy hand . 
I was thought to be hard to win the last time , said Skapti , when I would not take the burden of your trouble on me . 
It is quite another matter now , said Gizur . 
This quarrel , says Skapti , is no business of thine , except thou choosest to be entangled in it along with them . 
We are unlike in temper , said Skapti . 
Few , said Asgrim , bring forward the better if they know the worse , but many would say that I slew not Gauk ere I was driven to it . 
Then Gizur and his men stood up all of them , and went out , and so on to the booth of Snorri the Priest . 
After that , they asked one another the news of the day . 
Then Asgrim spoke to Snorri , and said , For that am I and my kinsman Gizur come hither , to ask thee for thy help . 
Thou speakest of what thou mayest always be forgiven for asking , for help in the blood feud after such connections as thou hadst . 
We , too , got many wholesome counsels from Njal , though few now bear that in mind but as yet I know not of what ye think ye stand most in need . 
We stand most in need , answers Asgrim , of brisk lads and good weapons , if we fight them here at the Thing . 
It was easy to see that he goaded them on in everything . 
Then Gizur the White said Thou speakest well , Snorri , and thou behavest ever most like a chief when most lies at stake . 
I wish to know , said Asgrim , in what way thou wilt stand by us if things turn out as thou sayest . 
I will show thee those marks of friendship , said Snorri , on which all your honour will hang , but I will not go with you to the court . 
But if ye fight here on the Thing , do not fall on them at all unless ye are all most steadfast and dauntless , for you have great champions against you . 
But if it falls out otherwise , and they give way before you , my meaning is that they will try to run for a stronghold in the Great Rift . 
But if they come thither , then ye will never get the better of them . 
Then ye shall promise to do as I bid you , and stop the battle , if I on my part do what I have now promised . 
Gizur thanked him kindly , and said that what he had said was just what they all needed , and then they all went out . 
Whither shall we go now ? said Gizur . 
To the Nortlanders' booth , said Asgrim . 
Then they come before him , and Gudmund welcomed them very heartily , and made them clear the booth for them , that they might all be able to sit down . 
Then they asked what tidings , and Asgrim said , There is no need to mutter what I have to say . 
We wish , Gudmund , to ask for thy steadfast help . 
Have ye seen any other chiefs before ? said Gudmund . 
They said they had been to see Skapti Thorod's son and Snorri the Priest , and told him quietly how they had fared with each of them . 
Then Gudmund said , Last time I behaved badly and meanly to you . 
They thanked him , and talked with him long and low afterwards , so that no other men could hear . 
Then Gudmund bade them not to go before the knees of any other chiefs , for he said that would be little hearted . 
We will now run the risk with the force that we have . 
Ye must go with your weapons to all law business , but not fight as things stand . 
Then they went all of them home to their booths , and all this was at first with few men's knowledge . 
So now the Thing goes on . 
Mord Valgard's son stood next to Gizur his father in law , he was of all men the readiest tongued . 
Gizur told him that he ought to give notice of the suit for manslaughter , and bade him speak up , so that all might hear him well . 
I say that all his goods are forfeited , half to me and half to the men of the Quarter , who have a right by law to take his forfeited goods . 
I give notice of this suit for manslaughter in the Quarter Court into which this suit ought by law to come . 
Then a great shout was uttered at the Hill of Laws , that Mord spoke well and boldly . 
Then Mord began to speak a second time . 
I take you to witness to this , says he , that I give notice of a suit against Flosi Thord's son . 
I give notice of the suit which Thorgeir Thorir's son hath handed over to me . 
After that Mord sat him down . 
Flosi listened carefully , but said never a word the while . 
I say that all his goods are forfeited . 
I give notice in the hearing of all men on the Hill of Laws . 
I give notice of this suit to be pleaded this summer , and of full outlawry against Glum Hilldir's son . 
Asgrim Ellidagrim's son declared his suit against Leidolf and Thorstein Geirleif's son , Arni Kol's son , and Grim the Red . 
And they all spoke well . 
After that other men gave notice of their suits , and it was far on in the day that it went on so . 
Then men fared home to their booths . 
Eyjolf Bolverk's son went to his booth with Flosi , they passed east around the booth and Flosi said to Eyjolf . 
See'st thou any defence in these suits . 
What counsel is now to be taken ? says Flosi . 
I will give thee a piece of advice , said Eyjolf . 
May be , said Flosi , that we shall get the worth of the ring . 
I don't know that , says Eyjolf but I will stand by thee at law , so that men shall say that there never was a better defence . 
Now , we must send for Askel , but Thorgeir shall come to thee at once , and a man with him . 
A little while after Thorgeir came , and then he took on him Flosi's leadership and priesthood . 
By that time Askel was come thither too , and then Flosi declared that he had joined his Thing , and this was with no man's knowledge save theirs . 
Now all is quite till the day when the courts were to go out to try suits . 
NOW MEN GO TO THE COURTS Now the time passes away till the courts were to go out to try suits . 
Both sides then made them ready to go thither , and armed them . 
Each side put war tokens on their helmets . 
Asgrim and the others looked at him , and his face was as though it were all blood , but great teardrops gushed out of his eyes . 
He bade them bring him his spear , that had been a gift to him from Skarphedinn , and it was the greatest treasure . 
Then Asgrim sent a man to Gizur the White , and Hjallti Skeggi's son , and Gudmund the Powerful . 
Now they all came together , and went straight to the court of Eastfirthers . 
They went to the court from the south , but Flosi and all the Eastfirthers with him went to it from the north . 
There were also the men of Reykdale and the Axefirthers with Flosi . 
There , too , was Eyjolf Bolverk's son . 
Flosi looked at Eyjolf , and said , All now goes fairly , and may be that it will not be far off from thy guess . 
Keep thy peace about it , says Eyjolf , and then we shall be sure to gain our point . 
Then lots were cast as to the declarations , and he , Mord , drew the lot to declare his suit first . 
I take witness to myself of this . 
I now declare this suit of outlawry in this shape before the court of the Eastfirthers over the head of John , as I uttered it when I gave notice of it . 
Then Mord spoke again , I have called Thorodd as my first witness , and Thorbjorn as my second . 
I now declare this suit of outlawry in this shape before the court of the Eastfirthers over the head of John , as I uttered it when I gave notice of it . 
He gave notice of a suit which Thorgeir Thorir's son had handed over to him . 
They made all these witnesses swear on oath ere they bore witness , and the judges too . 
Again Mord Valgard's son took witness . 
I bid thee by a lawful bidding before the court so that the judges may hear . 
I take witness to this , that now are all the first steps and proofs brought forward which belong to the suit . 
Now Flosi and his men went thither where the neighbours on the inquest sate . 
Then Flosi said to his men , The sons of Sigfus must know best whether these are the rightful neighbours to the spot who are here summoned . 
Kettle of the Mark answered , Here is that neighbour who held Mord at the font when he was baptized , but another is his second cousin by kinship . 
Then they reckoned up his kinship , and proved it with an oath . 
Then Eyjolf took witness that the inquest should do nothing till it was challenged . 
Now all the people spoke out , and said that Mord's suit had come to naught , and all were agreed in this that the defence was better than the prosecution . 
The messenger came and told them Thorhall's advice . 
Then Mord Valgard's son went to the court and took witness . 
After that he brought that witness before the court . 
Then all said that Thorhall had done great things , and all thought the prosecution better than the defence . 
Now Eyjolf said he was much mistaken if that could be shaken and then all said that the defence was better than the prosecution . 
Now all men praised Eyjolf , and said there was never a man who could cope with him in lawcraft . 
Now Thorhall told the messenger plainly , step by step , how they must proceed and the messenger came back and told Mord and Asgrim all the counsel that Thorhall had given . 
Then Mord went to the court and took witness . 
Then this was told to Flosi , and Eyjolf Bolverk's son asked the sons of Sigfus as to the other neighbours who were summoned thither . 
They said there were four of them who were wrongly summoned for those sit now at home who were nearer neighbours to the spot . 
Then Eyjolf took witness that he challenged all those four men out of the inquest , and that he did it with lawful form of challenge . 
and now Thorhall may prove and carry his point in every suit , if he can cure this flaw in this suit . 
Then Asgrim spoke to Mord , They know not yet of what to boast ere we have seen my son Thorhall . 
Njal told me that he had so taught Thorhall law , that he would turn out the best lawyer in Iceland whenever it were put to the proof . 
It will be well for them , says Thorhall , if they get not disgrace from this . 
He does so , and told Mord and Asgrim all , word for word , that Thorhall had said . 
Then there was a great roar that Mord handled the suit well but it was said that Flosi and his men betook them only to quibbling and wrong . 
Flosi asked Eyjolf if this could be good law , but he said he could not surely tell , but said the Lawman must settle this knotty point . 
Then Thorkel Geiti's son went on their behalf to tell the Lawman how things stood , and asked whether this were good law that Mord had said . 
More men are great lawyers now , says Skapti , than I thought . 
Then Thorkell went back to Flosi and Eyjolf , and said that this was good law . 
Then Mord Valgard's son went to the court and took witness . 
I bid this my lawful bidding before the court , so that the judges may hear . 
Gossipry , that is , because they were gossips , God's sib , relations by baptism . 
I take witness to this for my own part , and for those who may need to make use of it . 
After that be called on the judges to pronounce for the defence . 
Then Asgrim and his friends brought on the other suits for the burning , and those suits took their course . 
THE COUNSEL OF THORHALL ASGRIM'S SON Now Asgrim and his friends sent a man to Thorhall , and let him be told in what a strait they had come . 
Too far off was I now , answers Thorhall , for this cause might still not have taken this turn if I had been by . 
I now see their course that they must mean to summon you to the Fifth Court for contempt of the Thing . 
And for this ye must set your suits on foot first , that then ye will first go to trial and judgment . 
Now the messenger went his way back and told Mord and Asgrim . 
After that they went to the Hill of Laws , and Mord Valgard's son took witness . 
I take witness to this that I summon Flosi Thord's son , for that he gave money for his help here at the Thing to Eyjolf Bolverk's son . 
, if his fine and bail are brought forward at the execution levied on his house and goods , but else to become a thorough outlaw . 
I summon this cause before the Fifth Court , whither the cause ought to come by law I summon it to be pleaded now and to full outlawry . 
I summon with a lawful summons . 
I summon in the hearing of all men at the Hill of Laws . 
With a like summons he summoned Eyjolf Bolverk's son , for that he had taken and received the money , and he summoned him for that sake to the Fifth Court . 
Then they went away to the Court of Laws , there the Fifth Court was then set . 
Then Flosi and Eyjolf tried to divide the court , and there they stayed , and lost time over that while the summoning at the Hill of Laws going on . 
A little while after Flosi and Eyjolf were told that they had been summoned at the Hill of Laws into the Fifth Court , each of them with two summons . 
Then Eyjolf said , In an evil hour have we loitered here while they have been before us in quickness of summoning . 
Now hath come out Thorhall's cunning , and no man is his match in wit . 
Then they fared to the Hill of Laws , and Eyjolf summoned them for contempt of the Thing . 
After that they went to the Fifth Court . 
He bade them by a lawful bidding before the court , so that the judges could hear him across the court . 
In the Fifth Court vouchers had to follow the oaths of the parties , and they had to take an oath after them . 
I take witness , he said , to this , that I take a Fifth Court oath . 
I have not taken money , and I will not take it , neither for a lawful nor for an unlawful end . 
He declared his suits for outlawry in the same shape before the Fifth Court as he had uttered them when he summoned the defendants . 
Mord took witness , and bade those nine neighbours on the inquest to take their seats west on the river bank . 
Mord took witness again , and bade Flosi and Eyjolf to challenge the inquest . 
Then the neighbours on Mord's inquest came before the court , and one uttered the finding , but all the rest confirmed it by their consent . 
They had all taken the Fifth Court oath , and they brought in Flosi as truly guilty in the suit , and brought in their finding against him . 
They brought it in such a shape before the Fifth Court over the head of the same man over whose head Mord had already declared his suit . 
After that they brought in all those findings which they were bound to bring in all the other suits , and all was done in lawful form . 
Eyjolf Bolverk's son and Flosi watched to find a flaw in the proceedings , but could get nothing done . 
Then Mord Valgard's son took witness . 
He took this witness for his own part . 
He took this witness to all the steps that had been taken in the suit . 
Then that man stood up over whose head the suit had been declared and pleaded , and summed up the case . 
Then he summed up how Mord took witness to all the steps in the suit , and how he had bidden the defendant to begin his defence . 
After that Mord Valgard's son took witness . 
After that the foreman added these words of Mord to his summing up . 
Then Mord took witness , and prayed the judges to give judgment in this suit . 
Then Gizur the White said , Thou wilt have to do more yet , Mord , for four twelves can have no right to pass judgment . 
Thou art a wise man , Eyjolf , said Flosi , so that few can come nigh thee . 
Mord Valgard's son took witness . 
After that he offered Eyjolf and Flosi , before witnesses , to call out by name and set aside other six men , but Flosi and Eyjolf would not call them out . 
And now we will follow up our suits before the Fifth Court , said Eyjolf , and make them outlaws . 
Then Asgrim said , Now we will send a man to my son Thorhall , and know what counsel he will give us . 
ENDNOTES An old English law term for asylum or sanctuary . 
But when he heard that , he was so shocked at it that he could not utter a word . 
Thorhall cast him off his spear . 
That shall not be , says Asgrim , but let us turn on them now . 
Then there was a mighty cry all over the host , and then they shouted their war cries . 
Flosi and his friends then turned against their foes , and both sides egged on their men fast . 
After that he hewed at Hallbjorn and caught him on the shield , and the blow passed through the shield , and so down and cut off his great toe . 
Holmstein hurled a spear at Kari , but he caught it in the air , and sent it back , and it was a man's death in Flosi's band . 
Then Thorgeir met Thorwalld Kettle Rumble's son , and hewed at him at once with the axe , the ogress of war , which Skarphedinn had owned . 
Kari Solmund's son came up where Bjarni Broddhelgi's son had the lead . 
Kari caught up a spear and thrust at him , and the blow fell on his shield . 
Bjarni slipped the shield on one side of him , else it had gone straight through him . 
Then he cut at Kari and aimed at his leg , but Kari drew back his leg and turned short round on his heel , and Bjarni missed him . 
Kari cut at once at him , and then a man ran forward and threw his shield before Bjarni . 
Kari cleft the shield in twain , and the point of the sword caught his thigh , and ripped up the whole leg down to the ankle . 
That man fell there and then , and was ever after a cripple so long as he lived . 
Now there was a mighty throng . 
But though we here tell of some of the deeds that were done , still there are far many more of which men have handed down no stories . 
But the band which Hall of the Side and his son Ljot led , had fallen away out of the fight before the onslaught of that father and son , Asgrim and Thorhall . 
Thou shalt wait for me at the foot of the bridge , and I will go to the booths and beg for help . 
If I see , said Ljot , that Flosi and his men need help from our men , then I will at once run up and aid them . 
Thou wilt do in that as thou pleasest , says Hall , but I pray thee to wait for me here . 
Now flight breaks out in Flosi's band , and they all fly west across Axewater but Asgrim and Gizur the White went after them and all their host . 
Flosi and his men turned down between the river and the Outwork booth . 
They were both then dead , but they had been the worst men in all Flosi's band . 
Asgrim and his friends , and his men were just coming up thither , and then Thorhall said to his father Asgrim , See there now is Skapti Thorod's son , father . 
Then Asgrim and his men came up so fast that Flosi and his men gave way before them south along the river to the booths of the men of Modruvale . 
Hallbjorn the Strong was near by then , and said , Thou shalt not have it to say that we are all cowards . 
And with that he caught hold of him , and lifted him up aloft , and thrust him head down into the broth kettle . 
Solvi died at once but then a rush was made at Hallbjorn himself , and he had to turn and fly . 
Flosi threw a spear at Bruni Haflidi's son , and caught him at the waist , and that was his bane he was one of Gudmund the Powerful's band . 
The day after men went to the Hill of Laws . 
In the same way spoke Thorgeir Craggeir . 
, As men run and shake their shields , With another grunt shall rattle When this Thing is past and gone . 
Then there was great laughter . 
Now men burst out in great fits of laughter . 
I beg thee , Snorri the Priest , and other of the best men , to bring this about , that there may be an atonement between us . 
Now he sits him down , and a great hum in his favour followed , and all praised his gentleness and goodwill . 
Then Snorri the Priest stood up and made a long and clever speech , and begged Asgrim and the others who took the lead in the quarrel to look towards an atonement . 
Then Gizur the White said , Now Flosi must see that he must make his choice , whether he will be atoned on the understanding that some will be out of the atonement . 
Flosi says he will take that atonement And methinks it is so much the better , he says , that I have fewer good men and true against me . 
In the same way spoke Gizur the White and Hjallti Skeggi's son , Asgrim Ellidagrim's son and Mord Valgard's son . 
Then the manslaughters were set off the one against the other , and those men who were over and above were paid for in fines . 
They also made an award in the suit about the burning . 
Njal was to be atoned for with a triple fine , and Bergthora with two . 
The slaying of Skarphedinn was to be set off against that of Hauskuld the Whiteness Priest . 
Both Grim and Helgi were to be paid for with double fines and one full man fine should be paid for each of those who had been burnt in the house . 
No atonement was taken for the slaying of Thord Kari's son . 
And it was also said that their outlawry might be proclaimed either at the Harvest Thing or Spring Thing , whichever men chose and Flosi was to stay abroad three winters . 
As for Gunnar Lambi's son , and Grani Gunnar's son , Glum Hilldir's son , and Kol Thorstein's son , they were never to be allowed to come back . 
Then Flosi was asked if he would wish to have a price put upon his wound , but he said he would not take bribes for his hurt . 
Eyjolf Bolverk's son had no fine awarded for him , for his unfairness and wrongfulness . 
And now this settlement and atonement was handselled and was well kept afterwards . 
Asgrim and his friends gave Snorri the priest good gifts , and he had great honour from these suits . 
Skapti got a fine for his hurt . 
Gizur the White , and Hjallti Skeggi's son , and Asgrim Ellidagrim's son , asked Gudmund the Powerful to come and see them at home . 
He accepted the bidding , and each of them gave him a gold ring . 
Now Gudmund rides home north and had praise from every man for the part he had taken in these quarrels . 
Thorgeir Craggeir asked Kari to go along with him , but yet first of all they rode with Gudmund right up to the fells north . 
Kari gave Gudmund a golden brooch , but Thorgeir gave him a silver belt , and each was the greatest treasure . 
So they parted with the utmost friendship , and Gudmund is out of this story . 
Kari and Thorgeir rode south from the fell , and down to the Rapes , and so to Thurso water . 
Flosi , and the burners along with him , rode east to Fleetlithe , and he allowed the sons of Sigfus to settle their affairs at home . 
Flosi gave them leave to do that , but still bade them be ware of themselves , and be as short a time about it as they could . 
Then Flosi rode up by Godaland , and so north of Eyjafell Jokul , and did not draw bridle before he came home east to Swinefell . 
The sons of Sigfus stayed at home two nights , but the third day they rode east to Raufarfell , and were there the night . 
They were fifteen together , and had not the least fear for themselves . 
They rode thence late , and meant to reach Headbrink about even . 
They baited their horses in Carlinedale , and then a great slumber came over them . 
ENDNOTES Swinestye , ironically for Swinefell , where Flosi lived . 
This is the English equivalent for the Icelandic Hrep , a district . 
It still lingers in the Rape of Bramber , and other districts in Sussex and the southeast . 
OF KARI AND THORGEIR Those two , Kari Solmund's son and Thorgeir Craggeir , rode that day east across Markfleet , and so on east to Selialandsmull . 
They found there some women . 
The wives knew them , and said to them , Ye two are less wanton than the sons of Sigfus yonder , but still ye fare unwarily . 
Then Kari and Thorgeir went on their way and spurred their horses . 
So now we two alone will ride after them , for I see that thou hast so made up thy mind . 
Then they rode east to Myrdale , and there they met a man who had turf panniers on his horse . 
He began to speak thus , Too few men , messmate Thorgeir , hast thou now in thy company . 
How is that ? says Thorgeir . 
Why , said the other , because the prey is now before thy hand . 
The sons of Sigfus rode by a while ago , and mean to sleep the whole day east in Carlinedale , for they mean to go no farther to night than to Headbrink . 
After that they rode on their way east on Arnstacks heath , and there is nothing to be told of their journey before they came to Carlinedale water . 
The stream was high , and now they rode up along the river , for they saw there horses with saddles . 
They rode now thitherward , and saw that there were men asleep in a dell and their spears were standing upright in the ground a little below them . 
They took the spears from them , and threw them into the river . 
After that they shouted to them , and then they all awoke and grasped at their arms . 
They did not fall on them till they were armed . 
Slain is this one , said Thorgeir and down the man fell at once , and was dead . 
But when he dashed the axe forward , he smote Thorkell on the shoulder , and hewed it off , arm and all . 
He had a spear in one hand , and a sword in the other , but no shield . 
Kari came up just then , and cut off Leidolf's leg at mid thigh , and then Leidolf fell and died at once . 
Kettle of the Mark said , We will now run for our horses , for we cannot hold our own here , for the overbearing strength of these men . 
Then they ran for their horses , and leapt on their backs and Thorgeir said , Wilt thou that we chase them ? If so , we shall yet slay some of them . 
Then they got on their horses , and rode till they came home to Holt . 
Then Thorgeir made his brothers fare away east to Skoga , for they had another farm there , and because Thorgeir would not that his brothers should be called truce breakers . 
Then Thorgeir kept many men there about him , so that there were never fewer than thirty fighting men there . 
Then there was great joy there , and men thought Thorgeir had grown much greater , and pushed himself on both he and Kari too . 
Men long kept in mind this hunting of theirs , how they rode upon fifteen men and slew those five , but put those ten to flight who got away . 
Now it is to be told of Kettle , that they rode as they best might till they came home to Swinefell , and told how bad their journey had been . 
Flosi said it was only what was to be looked for And this is a warning that ye should never do the like again . 
He was at home that summer , and the winter too . 
But that winter , after Yule , Hall of the Side came from the east , and Kol his son . 
Flosi was glad at his coming , and they often talked about the matter of the burning . 
Flosi said they had already paid a great fine , and Hall said it was pretty much what he had guessed would come of Flosi's and his friends' quarrel . 
Thinkest thou that the manslaughters will then be brought to an end ? asks Flosi . 
What atonement shall we offer him ? asks Flosi . 
That is a hard atonement , says Flosi . 
Easier said than done , says Hall , and ye will find it a dear bargain to deal with him . 
Ye will have to pay a heavy fine before you have done with him . 
After that they ceased speaking about it . 
The English proverb , Threatened men live long . 
Hence Thorgeir got his surname Craggeir . 
There they asked whether Thorgeir would be at home at Holt , and they were told that they would find him at home . 
The men asked whither Hall meant to go . 
Thither to Holt , he said . 
They said they were sure he went on a good errand . 
Thorgeir was out of doors , and Kari too , and their men , for they had seen Hall's coming . 
He was there that night . 
Next morning Hall raised the question of the atonement with Thorgeir , and told him what terms they offered him and he spoke about them with many fair and kindly words . 
It may be well known to thee , answers Thorgeir , that I said I would take no atonement from the burners . 
That was quite another matter then , says Hall ye were then wroth with fight , and , besides , ye have done great deeds in the way of manslaying since . 
Then Kari said , I pray this of thee , Thorgeir , that thou wilt be atoned , for thy lot cannot be better than good . 
But Thorgeir would take no atonement before Kari said that he would take it ill if he were not atoned . 
Then Thorgeir handselled a truce to Flosi and his men , as a step to a meeting for atonement but Hall did the same on behalf of Flosi and the sons of Sigfus . 
Hall thanked them kindly for their gifts , and rode away with the greatest honour . 
He did not draw bridle till he came to Swinefell , and Flosi gave him a hearty welcome . 
There are few men like Kari , said Flosi , and I would that my mind were shapen altogether like his . 
Then Thorgeir came to meet them from the west , and then they talked over their atonement , and all went off as Hall had said . 
Before the atonement , Thorgeir said that Kari should still have the right to be at his house all the same if he chose . 
Flosi went quickly into all these terms . 
Thorgeir neither gave up the banishment nor the outlawry . 
, and the fines , and then thou wilt be thought a brave man , though thou hast stumbled into this misdeed , if thou fulfillest handsomely all that belongs to it . 
Flosi said it should be so . 
Now Hall rode home east , but Flosi rode home to Swinefell , and was at home afterwards . 
This condition had not been mentioned before . 
KARI COMES TO BJORN'S HOUSE IN THE MARK Thorgeir Craggeir rode home from the peace meeting , and Kari asked whether the atonement had come about . 
Thorgeir said that they now fully atoned . 
Then Kari took his horse and was for riding away . 
Thou hast no need to ride away , says Thorgeir , for it was laid down in our atonement that thou shouldst be here as before if thou chosest . 
Thorgeir agreed to what Kari wished to ask of him , and then Thorgeir had Kari's goods handed over to him in trust . 
After that Kari rode away . 
He had two horses and his weapons and outer clothing , and some ready money in gold and silver . 
Now Kari rode west by Selialandsmull and up along Markfleet , and so on up into Thorsmark . 
There there are three farms all called Mark . 
At the midmost farm dwelt that man whose name was Bjorn , and his surname was Bjorn the White he was the son of Kadal , the son of Bjalfi . 
Bjalfi had been the freedman of Asgerda , the mother of Njal and Holt Thorir Bjorn had to wife Valgerda , she was the daughter of Thorbrand , the son of Asbrand . 
Bjorn was a man who was always boasting and praising himself , but his housewife thought that bad . 
He was sharpsighted and swift of foot . 
Thither Kari turned in as a guest , and they took him by both hands , and he was there that night . 
But the next morning Kari said to Bjom , I wish thou wouldst take me in , for I should think myself well housed here with thee . 
I would too that thou shouldst be with me in my journeyings , as thou art a sharpsighted , swiftfooted man , and besides I think thou wouldst be dauntless in an onslaught . 
Still at thy prayer , Kari , I will not look on thee as an everyday man I will surely help thee in all that thou askest . 
The trolls take thy boasting and bragging , said his housewife , and thou shouldst not utter such stuff and silliness to any one than thyself . 
Kari was there some while in hiding , and few men knew of it . 
So that story was spread over all the country . 
They bade him see to all that . 
We will buy the ship of him , for we shall have many men and little freight . 
The ship is big and will take us all . 
Then they ceased talking of it . 
There Flosi and his men had a hearty welcome , and they were there the night . 
Next morning Flosi dealt with the captain for the ship , but he said he would not be hard to sell the ship if he could get what he wanted for her . 
Flosi asked him in what coin he wished to be paid for her the Easterling says he wanted land for her near where he then was . 
The Easterling was glad at that . 
Flosi made over the land at Borgarhaven to the Easterling , but shook hands on the bargain for the ship . 
He got also from the Easterling twenty hundreds in wares , and that was also in their bargain for the land . 
Now Flosi rode back home . 
He was so beloved by his men that their wares stood free to him to take either on loan or gift , just as he chose . 
He rode home to Swinefell , and was at home a while . 
Then Flosi sent Kol Thorstein's son and Gunnar Lambi's son east to Hornfirth . 
They were to be there by the ship , and to fit her out , and set up booths , and sack the wares , and get all things together that were needful . 
Kari is not there now to be guarded against , they say , if he is in the north country as is said . 
My counsel is that ye go many of you together , and part as little as ye can , and be as wary of yourselves as ye may . 
All must come to pass as to man's life , said Kettle , as it is foredoomed but good go with thee for thy warning . 
Now they spoke no more about it . 
After that the sons of Sigfus busked them and those men with them who were meant to go with them . 
But they would not let themselves be hindered . 
They rode now on their way , and Flosi said that they should take his wares in Middleland , and carry them east , and do the same in Landsbreach and Woodcombe . 
After that they rode to Skaptartongue , and so on the fell , and north of Eyjafell Jokul , and down into Godaland , and so down into the woods in Thorsmark . 
Bjorn of the Mark caught sight of them coming , and went at once to meet them . 
Then they greeted each other well , and the sons of Sigfus asked after Kari Solmund's son . 
Kettle of the Mark bade them be still , and bring out no big words . 
Bjorn asked when they would be coming back . 
We shall stay near a week in Fleetlithe , said they , and so they told him when they should be riding back on the fell . 
Now the sons of Sigfus rode to their homes , and their households were glad to see them . 
They were there near a week . 
Now Bjorn comes home and sees Kari , and told him all about the doings of the sons of Sigfus , and their purpose . 
Ah , said his mistress , but you may still be bad and yet not be so bad as to be a traitor to thy master . 
Kari stayed there six nights after that . 
The sons of Sigfus rode from their homes the same day that they had named to Bjorn . 
They came to the Mark and knocked at the door there , and wanted to see Bjorn but his mistress went to the door and greeted them . 
They believed this , for they knew that Bjorn had money out at call there . 
Then they split their band . 
Now they all rose up and ran at them , and Modolf Kettle's son was quickest of them , and thrust at Kari with his spear . 
Kari had his shield before him , and the blow fell on it , and the spear stuck fast in the shield . 
Then Kari's sword passed on into Modolf's side , and between his ribs , and so Modolf fell down and was dead on the spot . 
Kari made a sweep at that same man with his sword , and cut him asunder at the waist . 
Then Lambi Sigfus' son rushed at Kari , and hewed at him with his sword . 
A little while after he gave Gunnar of Skal , a good man and true , his deathblow . 
Kari and Bjorn hooted and shouted after them as they galloped off . 
So they rode east to Woodcombe , and did not draw bridle till they came to Swinefell . 
Flosi was not at home when they came thither , and that was why no hue and cry was made thence after Kari . 
This journey of theirs was thought most shameful by all men . 
Then Kari and Bjorn ride away from the house . 
MORE OF KARI AND BJORN Then Kari asked Bjorn , What counsel shall we take now ? Now I will try what thy wit is worth . 
Dost thou think now , answered Bjorn , that much lies on our being as wise as ever we can ? Ay , said Kari , I think so surely . 
Then our counsel is soon taken , says Bjorn . 
So will we do , said Kari and this I had meant to do all along . 
And so you may put it to the proof , said Bjorn , that I am no more of an every day body in wit than I am in bravery . 
Then Kari said to Bjorn that he must watch their horses , and keep a good look out But as for me , he says , I am heavy with sleep . 
No ! I will rather stand by thee and keep them off so long as it is fated . 
Then they had not long to wait ere horses with packsaddles were driven by them over the moor , and with them went three men . 
Then Kari said , These men see us not . 
Then let us suffer them to ride on , said Bjorn . 
Bjorn sees that and hewed at once the head off Glum's spear . 
In this bout both Kari and Bjorn were wounded . 
Then Kettle of the Mark rushed at Kari , and thrust at him with his spear . 
Kari threw up his leg , and the spear stuck in the ground , and Kari leapt on the spear shaft , and snapped it in sunder . 
Then Kari grasped Kettle in his arms , and Bjorn ran up just then , and wanted to slay him , but Kari said , Be still now . 
I will give Kettle peace for though it may be that Kettle's life is in my power , still I will never slay him . 
Kettle answers never a word , but rode away after his companions , and told those the tidings who did not know them already . 
Kari made such a near guess , that he rode away thence at the very time that they gave over seeking for him . 
So it shall be never fear , says Kari . 
After that they ride up to the homestead , and then the mistress asked them what tidings , and greeted them well . 
He wounded three men , and , besides , he is wounded himself , and he stuck as close to me as he could in everything . 
They were three nights there , and after that they rode to Holt to Thorgeir , and told him alone these tidings , for those tidings had not yet been heard there . 
Thorgeir thanked him , and it was quite plain that he was glad at what he heard . 
He asked Kari what now was undone which he meant to do . 
I mean , answers Kari , to kill Gunnar Lambi's son and Kol Thorstein's son , if I can get a chance . 
Then we have slain fifteen men , reckoning those five whom we two slew together . 
But one boon I will now ask of thee . 
Thorgeir said he would grant him whatever he asked . 
So it shall be , says Thorgeir . 
Then he gave Bjorn a ready stocked farm at Asolfskal , but he took the farm in the Mark into his own hands . 
So Bjorn was thought to be much more of a man than he had been before . 
Then Kari rode away , and did not draw rein till he came west to Tongue to Asgrim Ellidagrim's son . 
He gave Kari a most hearty welcome , and Kari told him of all the tidings that had happened in these slayings . 
Asgrim was well pleased at them , and asked what Kari meant to do next . 
I mean , said Kari , to fare abroad after them , and so dog their footsteps and slay them , if I can get at them . 
Asgrim said there was no man like him for bravery and hardihood . 
He was there some nights , and after that he rode to Gizur the White , and he took him by both hands . 
Kari stayed there somme while , and then he told Gizur that he wished to ride down to Eyrar . 
Gizur gave Kari a good sword at parting . 
He took Kari by both hands , and said that one fate should befall both of them . 
After that they busked them for their voyage , and fitted out their ship . 
Now Flosi stayed by the ship until they were boun . 
But as soon as ever they got a fair wind they put out to sea . 
They had it long passage and hard weather . 
Then they quite lost their reckoning , and sailed on and on , and all at once three great waves broke over their ship , one after the other . 
Then Flosi said they must be near some land , and that this was a ground swell . 
Then they had to look for shelter and warmth for themselves , and the day after they went up on a height . 
The weather was then good . 
Then they walked on until they met men who showed them to the town , and then they went in before the earl , and Flosi and all the others hailed him . 
The earl asked what men they might be , and Flosi told his name , and said out of what part of Iceland he was . 
This , said Flosi , that I hewed off his head . 
Take them all , said the earl . 
Then that was done , and just then in came Thorstein , son of Hall of the Side . 
Flosi had to wife Steinvora , Thorstein's sister . 
Thorstein was one of Earl Sigurd's bodyguard , but when be saw Flosi seized and held , he went in before the earl , and offered for Flosi all the goods he had . 
The earl held to that custom of mighty men that Flosi took that place in his service which Helgi Njal's son had filled . 
So Flosi was made Earl Sigurd's henchman , and he soon won his way to great love with the earl . 
KARI GOES ABROAD Those messmates Kari and Kolbein the Black put out to sea from Eyrar half a month later than Flosi and his companions from Hornfirth . 
They got a fine fair wind , and were but a short time out . 
The first land they made was the Fair Isle , it lies between Shetland and the Orkneys . 
There that man whose name was David the White took Kari into his house , and he told him all that he had heard for certain about the doings of the burners . 
He was one of Kari's greatest friends , and Kari stayed with him for the winter . 
There they heard tidings from the west out of the Orkneys of all that was done there . 
Brian was the name of the king who first had her to wife , but they were then parted . 
He was the best natured of all kings . 
He had his seat in Connaught , in Ireland his brother's name was Wolf the Quarrelsome , the greatest champion and warrior Brian's foster child's name was Kerthialfad . 
He was then full grown when these things happened , and was the boldest of all men . 
Kormlada was not the mother of King Brian's children , and so grim was she against King Brian after their parting , that she would gladly have him dead . 
Kormlada egged on her son Sigtrygg very much to kill King Brian , and she now sent him to Earl Sigurd to beg for help . 
King Sigtrygg came before Yule to the Orkneys , and there , too , came Earl Gilli , as was written before . 
The men were so placed that King Sigtrygg sat in a high seat in the middle , but on either side of the king sat one of the earls . 
Now King Sigtrygg and Earl Gilli wished to hear of these tidings which had happened at the burning , and so , also , what had befallen since . 
Then Gunnar Lambi's son was got to tell the tale , and a stool was set for him to sit upon . 
GUNNAR LAMBI'S SON'S SLAYING Just at that very time Kari and Kolbein and David the White came to Hrossey unawares to all men . 
They went straightway up on land , but a few men watched their ship . 
Kari and his fellows went straight to the earl's homestead , and came to the hall about drinking time . 
It so happened that just then Gunnar was telling the story of the burning , but they were listening to him meanwhile outside . 
This was on Yule day itself . 
Now King Sigtrygg asked , How did Skarphedinn bear the burning ? Well at first for a long time , said Gunnar , but still the end of it was that he wept . 
And so he went on giving an unfair leaning in his story , but every now and then he laughed out loud . 
Earl Sigurd knew the man that had done the deed , and called out , Seize Kari and kill him . 
Kari had been one of Earl Sigurd's bodyguard , and he was of all men most beloved by his friends and no man stood up a whit more for the earl's speech . 
Many would say , Lord , said Kari , that I have done this deed on your behalf , to avenge your henchman . 
Then Flosi said , Kari hath not done this without a cause he is in no atonement with us , and he only did what he had a right to do . 
So Kari walked away , and there was no hue and cry after him . 
Kari fared to his ship , and his fellows with him . 
Those behind in the Orkneys cleansed the board , and bore out the dead man . 
Now Flosi undertook to tell the story of the burning , and he was fair to all and therefore what he said was believed . 
Then King Sigtrygg stirred in his business with Earl Sigurd , and bade him go to the war with him against King Brian . 
But all his men besought Earl Sigurd not to go into the war , but it was all no good . 
So they parted on the understanding that Earl Sigurd gave his word to go but King Sigtrygg promised him his mother and the kingdom . 
It was so settled that Earl Sigurd was to come with all his host to Dublin by Palm Sunday . 
Then King Sigtrygg fared south to Ireland , and told his mother Kormlada that the earl had undertaken to come , and also what he had pledged himself to grant him . 
She showed herself well pleased at that , but said they must gather greater force still . 
The one's name is Ospak , and the other's Brodir . 
Thou shalt fare to find them , and spare nothing to get them into thy quarrel , whatever price they ask . 
So King Sigtrygg fared home to his mother , and told her how things stood . 
But Ospak said he would not fight against so good a king . 
Then they were both wroth , and sundered their band at once . 
Ospak had ten ships and Brodir twenty . 
Ospak was a heathen , and the wisest of all men . 
He laid his ships inside in a sound , but Brodir lay outside him . 
He had that coat of mail on which no steel would bite . 
He was both tall and strong , and had such long locks that he tucked them under his belt . 
Along with that came a shower of boiling blood . 
Then they covered themselves with their shields , but for all that many were scalded . 
This wonder lasted all till day , and a man had died on board every ship . 
Then they slept during the day , but the second night there was again a din , and again they all sprang up . 
Then swords leapt out of their sheaths , and axes and spears flew about in the air and fought . 
The weapons pressed them so hard that they had to shield themselves , but still many were wounded , and again a man died out of every ship . 
This wonder lasted all till day . 
Then they slept again the day after . 
Then they went to sleep first of all , but when Brodir woke up , he drew his breath painfully , and bade them put off the boat . 
For , he said , I will go to see Ospak . 
Ospak would not tell him before he pledged him peace , and Brodir promised him peace , but Ospak still shrank from telling him till night fell . 
Then Ospak spoke and said , When blood rained on you , therefore shall ye shed many men's blood , both of your own and others . 
But when ye heard a great din , then ye must have been shown the crack of doom , and ye shall all die speedily . 
Ospak saw all their plan , and then he vowed to take the true faith , and to go to King Brian , and follow him till his death day . 
Then he took that counsel to lay his ships in a line , and punt them along the shore with poles , and cut the cables of Brodir's ships . 
Then Ospak told King Brian all that he had learnt , and took baptism , and gave himself over into the king's hand . 
After that King Brian made them gather force over all his realm , and the whole host was to come to Dublin in the week before Palm Sunday . 
BRIAN'S BATTLE Earl Sigurd Hlodver's son busked him from the Orkneys , and Flosi offered to go with him . 
The earl would not have that , since he had his pilgrimage to fulfil . 
Flosi offered fifteen men of his band to go on the voyage , and the earl accepted them , but Flosi fared with Earl Gilli to the Southern isles . 
Thorstein , the son of Hall of the Side , went along with Earl Sigurd , and Hrafn the Red , and Erling of Straumey . 
He would not that Hareck should go , but said he would be sure to be the first to tell him the tidings of his voyage . 
The earl came with all his host on Palm Sunday to Dublin , and there too was come Brodir with all his host . 
Then Brodir said that they must not fight before the Friday . 
King Brian came with all his host to the Burg , and on the Friday the host fared out of the Burg , and both armies were drawn up in array . 
Brodir was on one wing of the battle , but King Sigtrygg on the other . 
Earl Sigurd was in the mid battle . 
was thrown round him , and his host was drawn up in array in front of it . 
Wolf the Quarrelsome was on that wing of the battle against which Brodir stood but on the other wing , where Sigtrygg stood against them , were Ospak and his sons . 
But in mid battle was Kerthialfad , and before him the banners were home . 
Now the wings fall on one another , and there was a very hard fight . 
Brodir went through the host of the foe , and felled all the foremost that stood there , but no steel would bite on his mail . 
Then he got another man to bear the banner , and there was again a hard fight . 
Kerthialfad smote this man too his death blow at once , and so on one after the other all who stood near him . 
Hrafn the Red ! called out Earl Sigurd , bear thou the banner . 
Bear thine own devil thyself , answered Hrafn . 
Then the earl said , Tis fittest that the beggar should bear the bag and with that he took the banner from the staff and put it under his cloak . 
A little after Asmund the White was slain , and then the earl was pierced through with a spear . 
Ospak had gone through all the battle on his wing , he had been sore wounded , and lost both his sons ere King Sigtrygg fled before him . 
Then flight broke out throughout all the host . 
Thorstein Hall of the Side's son stood still while all the others fled , and tied his shoe string . 
Then Kerthialfad asked why he ran not as the others . 
Because , said Thorstein , I can't get home to night , since I am at home out in Iceland . 
, Apostle Peter ! hath run twice to Rome , and he would run the third time if thou gavest him leave . 
Then the devils let him loose , and Hrafn got across the river . 
Now Brodir saw that King Brian's men were chasing the fleers , and that there were few men by the shieldburg . 
Then he rushed out of the wood , and broke through the shieldburg , and hewed at the king . 
Then Brodir called out with a loud voice , Now let man tell man that Brodir felled Brian . 
Then they threw a ring round Brodir and his men , and threw branches of trees upon them , and so Brodir was taken alive . 
Brodir's men were slain to a man . 
After that they took King Brian's body and laid it out . 
The king's head had grown fast to the trunk . 
Fifteen men of the burners fell in Brian's battle , and there , too , fell Halldor the son of Gudmund the Powerful , and Erling of Straumey . 
On Good Friday that event happened in Caithness that a man whose name was Daurrud went out . 
He saw folk riding twelve together to a bower , and there they were all lost to his sight . 
He went to that bower and looked in through a window slit that was in it , and saw that there were women inside , and they had set up a loom . 
Men's heads were the weights , but men's entrails were the warp and weft , a sword was the shuttle , and the reels were arrows . 
They sang these songs , and he learnt them by heart THE WOOF OF WAR . 
Wind we , wind swiftly Our warwinning woof . 
When sword bearing rovers To banners rush on , Mind , maidens , we spare not One life in the fray ! We corse choosing sisters Have charge of the slain . 
Soon over all Ersemen Sharp sorrow shall fall , That woe to those warriors Shall wane nevermore Our woof now is woven . 
Now battlefield waste , O'er land and o'er water War tidings shall leap . 
Now surely 'tis gruesome To gaze all around . 
When bloodred through heaven Drives cloudrack o'er head Air soon shall be deep hued With dying men's blood When this our spaedom Comes speedy to pass . 
Now mount we our horses , Now bare we our brands , Now haste we hard , maidens , Hence far , far , away . 
Then they plucked down the Woof and tore it asunder , and each kept what she had hold of . 
Now Daurrud goes away from the Slit , and home but they got on their steeds and rode six to the south , and the other six to the north . 
A like event befell Brand Gneisti's son in the Faroe Isles . 
At Swinefell , in Iceland , blood came on the priest's stole on Good Friday , so that he had to put it off . 
This event happened in the Orkneys , that Hareck thought he saw Earl Sigurd , and some men with him . 
Then Hareck took his horse and rode to meet the earl . 
Men saw that they met and rode under a brae , but they were never seen again , and not a scrap was ever found of Hareck . 
Earl Gilli in the Southern isles dreamed that a man came to him and said his name was Hostfinn , and told him he was come from Ireland . 
Those two , Flosi and the earl , talked much of this dream . 
Flosi told the earl that he would now go away , For we have our pilgrimage south to fulfil . 
The earl bade him go as he wished , and gave him a ship and all else that he needed , and much silver . 
Then they sailed to Wales , and stayed there a while . 
Shieldburg , that is , a ring of men holding their shields locked together . 
Meaning that he would go a third time on a pilgrimage to Rome if St . 
Peter helped him out of this strait . 
Helmgnawer , the sword that bites helmets . 
THE SLAYING OF KOL THORSTEIN'S SON Kari Solmund's son told master Skeggi that he wished he would get him a ship . 
So master Skeggi gave Kari a longship , fully trimmed and manned , and on board it went Kari , and David the White , and Kolbein the Black . 
Now Kari and his fellows sailed south through Scotland's firths , and there they found men from the Southern isles . 
They told Kari the tidings from Ireland , and also that Flosi was gone to Wales , and his men with him . 
But when Kari heard that , he told his messmates that he would hold on south to Wales , to fall in with Flosi and his band . 
All chose to go with him and then he sails south to Wales , and there they lay in hiding in a creek out of the way . 
That morning Kol Thorstein's son went into the town to buy silver . 
He of all the burners had used the bitterest words . 
That same morning Kari went also into the town . 
He came where Kol was telling the silver . 
Then Kari said , Go and tell this to Flosi , that Kari Solmund's son hath slain Kol Thorstein's son . 
I give notice of this slaying as done by my hand . 
Then Kari went to his ship , and told his shipmates of the manslaughter . 
Then they sailed north to Beruwick , and laid up their ship , and fared up into Whitherne in Scotland , and were with Earl Malcolm that year . 
But when Flosi heard of Kol's slaying , he laid out his body , and bestowed much money on his burial . 
Flosi never uttered any wrathful words against Kari . 
Thence Flosi fared south across the sea and began his pilgrimage , and went on south , and did not stop till he came to Rome . 
There he got so great honour that he took absolution from the Pope himself , and for that he gave a great sum of money . 
Then he fared back again by the east road , and stayed long in towns , and went in before mighty men , and had from them great honour . 
Now he sailed out to Iceland , and ran into Hornfirth , and thence fared home to Swinefell . 
He had then fulfilled all the terms of his atonement , both in fines and foreign travel . 
There he gave over the ship of burden to Kolbein and David , and Kolbein sailed in that ship to Norway , but David stayed behind in the Fair Isle . 
Kari was that winter in Caithness . 
In this winter his housewife died out in Iceland . 
The next summer Kari busked him for Iceland . 
Skeggi gave him a ship of burden , and there were eighteen of them on board her . 
They were rather late boun , but still they put to sea , and had a long passage , but at last they made Ingolf's Head . 
There their ship was dashed all to pieces , but the men's lives were saved . 
Then , too , a gale of wind came on them . 
Now they ask Kari what counsel was to be taken but he said their best plan was to go to Swinefell and put Flosi's manhood to the proof . 
So they went right up to Swinefell in the storm . 
Flosi was in the sitting room . 
Flosi asked Kari to be there that winter , and Kari took his offer . 
Then they were atoned with a full atonement . 
Then Flosi gave away his brother's daughter Hildigunna , whom Hauskuld the priest of Whiteness had had to wife to Kari , and they dwelt first of all at Broadwater . 
Flosi said she was quite good enough for an old and deathdoomed man , and bore his goods on shipboard and put out to sea . 
But of that ship no tidings were ever heard . 
These were the children of Kari Solmund's son and Helga Njal's daughter Thorgerda and Ragneida , Valgerda , and Thord who was burnt in Njal's house . 
But the children of Hildigunna and Kari , were these , Starkad , and Thord , and Flosi . 
The son of Burning Flosi was Kolbein , who has been the most famous man of any of that stock . 
And here we end the STORY of BURNT NJAL . 
