Notes from the Underground FYODOR DOSTOYEVSKY PART I Underground The author of the diary and the diary itself are , of course , imaginary . 
I have tried to expose to the view of the public more distinctly than is commonly done , one of the characters of the recent past . 
He is one of the representatives of a generation still living . 
In the second fragment there are added the actual notes of this person concerning certain events in his life . 
I I am a sick man . 
I am a spiteful man . 
I am an unattractive man . 
I believe my liver is diseased . 
However , I know nothing at all about my disease , and do not know for certain what ails me . 
I don't consult a doctor for it , and never have , though I have a respect for medicine and doctors . 
No , I refuse to consult a doctor from spite . 
That you probably will not understand . 
Well , I understand it , though . 
But still , if I don't consult a doctor it is from spite . 
My liver is bad , well let it get worse ! I have been going on like that for a long time twenty years . 
I used to be in the government service , but am no longer . 
I was a spiteful official . 
I was rude and took pleasure in being so . 
I did not take bribes , you see , so I was bound to find a recompense in that , at least . 
For the most part they were all timid people of course , they were petitioners . 
But of the uppish ones there was one officer in particular I could not endure . 
He simply would not be humble , and clanked his sword in a disgusting way . 
I carried on a feud with him for eighteen months over that sword . 
At last I got the better of him . 
He left off clanking it . 
That happened in my youth , though . 
I might foam at the mouth , but bring me a doll to play with , give me a cup of tea with sugar in it , and maybe I should be appeased . 
I might even be genuinely touched , though probably I should grind my teeth at myself afterwards and lie awake at night with shame for months after . 
I was lying when I said just now that I was a spiteful official . 
I was lying from spite . 
I was simply amusing myself with the petitioners and with the officer , and in reality I never could become spiteful . 
I was conscious every moment in myself of many , very many elements absolutely opposite to that . 
I felt them positively swarming in me , these opposite elements . 
However , I assure you I do not care if you are . 
Yes , a man in the nineteenth century must and morally ought to be pre eminently a characterless creature a man of character , an active man is pre eminently a limited creature . 
That is my conviction of forty years . 
I am forty years old now , and you know forty years is a whole lifetime you know it is extreme old age . 
To live longer than forty years is bad manners , is vulgar , immoral . 
Who does live beyond forty ? Answer that , sincerely and honestly I will tell you who do fools and worthless fellows . 
To seventy ! To eighty ! . 
Stay , let me take breath . 
You imagine no doubt , gentlemen , that I want to amuse you . 
You are mistaken in that , too . 
you think fit to ask me who I am then my answer is , I am a collegiate assessor . 
, and when last year a distant relation left me six thousand roubles in his will I immediately retired from the service and settled down in my corner . 
I used to live in this corner before , but now I have settled down in it . 
My room is a wretched , horrid one in the outskirts of the town . 
My servant is an old country woman , ill natured from stupidity , and , moreover , there is always a nasty smell about her . 
I am told that the Petersburg climate is bad for me , and that with my small means it is very expensive to live in Petersburg . 
I know all that better than all these sage and experienced counsellors and monitors . 
But I am remaining in Petersburg I am not going away from Petersburg ! I am not going away because . 
ech ! Why , it is absolutely no matter whether I am going away or not going away . 
But what can a decent man speak of with most pleasure ? Answer Of himself . 
Well , so I will talk about myself . 
II I want now to tell you , gentlemen , whether you care to hear it or not , why I could not even become an insect . 
I tell you solemnly , that I have many times tried to become an insect . 
But I was not equal even to that . 
I swear , gentlemen , that to be too conscious is an illness a real thorough going illness . 
It would have been quite enough , for instance , to have the consciousness by which all so called direct persons and men of action live . 
We will not dispute it my contention was absurd . 
But yet I am firmly persuaded that a great deal of consciousness , every sort of consciousness , in fact , is a disease . 
Let us leave that , too , for a minute . 
But the chief point was that all this was , as it were , not accidental in me , but as though it were bound to be so . 
that this was perhaps my normal condition . 
Ech , I have talked a lot of nonsense , but what have I explained ? How is enjoyment in this to be explained ? But I will explain it . 
I will get to the bottom of it ! That is why I have taken up my pen . 
I , for instance , have a great deal of AMOUR PROPRE . 
I am as suspicious and prone to take offence as a humpback or a dwarf . 
But upon my word I sometimes have had moments when if I had happened to be slapped in the face I should , perhaps , have been positively glad of it . 
And when one is slapped in the face why then the consciousness of being rubbed into a pulp would positively overwhelm one . 
The worst of it is , look at it which way one will , it still turns out that I was always the most to blame in everything . 
And what is most humiliating of all , to blame for no fault of my own but , so to say , through the laws of nature . 
In the first place , to blame because I am cleverer than any of the people surrounding me . 
To blame , finally , because even if I had had magnanimity , I should only have had more suffering from the sense of its uselessness . 
Why should I not have made up my mind ? About that in particular I want to say a few words . 
Such a gentleman simply dashes straight for his object like an infuriated bull with its horns down , and nothing but a wall will stop him . 
Well , such a direct person I regard as the real normal man , as his tender mother nature wished to see him when she graciously brought him into being on the earth . 
I envy such a man till I am green in the face . 
I am not disputing that , but perhaps the normal man should be stupid , how do you know ? Perhaps it is very beautiful , in fact . 
, this retort made man is sometimes so nonplussed in the presence of his antithesis that with all his exaggerated consciousness he genuinely thinks of himself as a mouse and not a man . 
It may be an acutely conscious mouse , yet it is a mouse , while the other is a man , and therefore , et caetera , et caetera . 
Now let us look at this mouse in action . 
, and wants to revenge itself , too . 
There may even be a greater accumulation of spite in it than in L'HOMME DE LA NATURE ET DE LA VERITE . 
The base and nasty desire to vent that spite on its assailant rankles perhaps even more nastily in it than in L'HOMME DE LA NATURE ET DE LA VERITE . 
For through his innate stupidity the latter looks upon his revenge as justice pure and simple while in consequence of his acute consciousness the mouse does not believe in the justice of it . 
To come at last to the deed itself , to the very act of revenge . 
There in its nasty , stinking , underground home our insulted , crushed and ridiculed mouse promptly becomes absorbed in cold , malignant and , above all , everlasting spite . 
On its deathbed it will recall it all over again , with interest accumulated over all the years and . 
I bet that you are thinking that . 
Possibly , I even regret , myself , that I have given so few slaps in the face during my life . 
not another word on that subject of such extreme interest to you . 
I will continue calmly concerning persons with strong nerves who do not understand a certain refinement of enjoyment . 
The impossible means the stone wall ! What stone wall ? Why , of course , the laws of nature , the deductions of natural science , mathematics . 
As soon as they prove to you , for instance , that you are descended from a monkey , then it is no use scowling , accept it for a fact . 
A wall , you see , is a wall . 
and so on , and so on . 
As though such a stone wall really were a consolation , and really did contain some word of conciliation , simply because it is as true as twice two makes four . 
IV Ha , ha , ha ! You will be finding enjoyment in toothache next , you cry , with a laugh . 
Well , even in toothache there is enjoyment , I answer . 
I had toothache for a whole month and I know there is . 
The enjoyment of the sufferer finds expression in those moans if he did not feel enjoyment in them he would not moan . 
It is a good example , gentlemen , and I will develop it . 
Well , these mortal insults , these jeers on the part of someone unknown , end at last in an enjoyment which sometimes reaches the highest degree of voluptuousness . 
His moans become nasty , disgustingly malignant , and go on for whole days and nights . 
Well , in all these recognitions and disgraces it is that there lies a voluptuous pleasure . 
As though he would say I am worrying you , I am lacerating your hearts , I am keeping everyone in the house awake . 
Well , stay awake then , you , too , feel every minute that I have toothache . 
I am not a hero to you now , as I tried to seem before , but simply a nasty person , an impostor . 
Well , so be it , then ! I am very glad that you see through me . 
It is nasty for you to hear my despicable moans well , let it be nasty here I will let you have a nastier flourish in a minute . 
You do not understand even now , gentlemen ? No , it seems our development and our consciousness must go further to understand all the intricacies of this pleasure . 
My jests , gentlemen , are of course in bad taste , jerky , involved , lacking self confidence . 
But of course that is because I do not respect myself . 
As though of design I used to get into trouble in cases when I was not to blame in any way . 
That was the nastiest part of it . 
For that one could not blame even the laws of nature , though the laws of nature have continually all my life offended me more than anything . 
It is loathsome to remember it all , but it was loathsome even then . 
You will ask why did I worry myself with such antics answer , because it was very dull to sit with one's hands folded , and so one began cutting capers . 
Observe yourselves more carefully , gentlemen , then you will understand that it is so . 
I invented adventures for myself and made up a life , so as at least to live in some way . 
All my life I have had an impulse to play such pranks , so that in the end I could not control it in myself . 
Another time , twice , in fact , I tried hard to be in love . 
I suffered , too , gentlemen , I assure you . 
and it was all from ENNUI , gentlemen , all from ENNUI inertia overcame me . 
You know the direct , legitimate fruit of consciousness is inertia , that is , conscious sitting with the hands folded . 
I have referred to this already . 
I repeat , I repeat with emphasis all direct persons and men of action are active just because they are stupid and limited . 
To begin to act , you know , you must first have your mind completely at ease and no trace of doubt left in it . 
That is just the essence of every sort of consciousness and reflection . 
It must be a case of the laws of nature again . 
What is the result of it in the end ? Why , just the same . 
Remember I spoke just now of vengeance . 
I said that a man revenges himself because he sees justice in it . 
Therefore he has found a primary cause , that is , justice . 
And so he is at rest on all sides , and consequently he carries out his revenge calmly and successfully , being persuaded that he is doing a just and honest thing . 
But I see no justice in it , I find no sort of virtue in it either , and consequently if I attempt to revenge myself , it is only out of spite . 
Spite , of course , might overcome everything , all my doubts , and so might serve quite successfully in place of a primary cause , precisely because it is not a cause . 
In consequence again of those accursed laws of consciousness , anger in me is subject to chemical disintegration . 
So you give it up with a wave of the hand because you have not found a fundamental cause . 
The day after tomorrow , at the latest , you will begin despising yourself for having knowingly deceived yourself . 
Result a soap bubble and inertia . 
Oh , gentlemen , do you know , perhaps I consider myself an intelligent man , only because all my life I have been able neither to begin nor to finish anything . 
Granted I am a babbler , a harmless vexatious babbler , like all of us . 
Sluggard why , it is a calling and vocation , it is a career . 
Do not jest , it is so . 
I should then be a member of the best club by right , and should find my occupation in continually respecting myself . 
I knew a gentleman who prided himself all his life on being a connoisseur of Lafitte . 
He considered this as his positive virtue , and never doubted himself . 
He died , not simply with a tranquil , but with a triumphant conscience , and he was quite right , too . 
How do you like that ? I have long had visions of it . 
I should have snatched at every opportunity to drop a tear into my glass and then to drain it to all that is sublime and beautiful . 
I should then have turned everything into the sublime and the beautiful in the nastiest , unquestionable trash , I should have sought out the sublime and the beautiful . 
I should have exuded tears like a wet sponge . 
An artist , for instance , paints a picture worthy of Gay . 
At once I drink to the health of the artist who painted the picture worthy of Gay , because I love all that is sublime and beautiful . 
An author has written AS YOU WILL at once I drink to the health of anyone you will because I love all that is sublime and beautiful . 
I should claim respect for doing so . 
I should persecute anyone who would not show me respect . 
VII But these are all golden dreams . 
So , I suppose , this obstinacy and perversity were pleasanter to them than any advantage . 
And if so , if there can be such a case , the whole principle falls into dust . 
Your advantages are prosperity , wealth , freedom , peace and so on , and so on . 
It would be no greater matter , they would simply have to take it , this advantage , and add it to the list . 
But the trouble is , that this strange advantage does not fall under any classification and is not in place in any list . 
I have a friend for instance . 
I warn you that my friend is a compound personality and therefore it is difficult to blame him as an individual . 
Yes , but it's advantage all the same , you will retort . 
But excuse me , I'll make the point clear , and it is not a case of playing upon words . 
In fact , it upsets everything . 
Why , to maintain this theory of the regeneration of mankind by means of the pursuit of his own advantage is to my mind almost the same thing . 
as to affirm , for instance , following Buckle , that through civilisation mankind becomes softer , and consequently less bloodthirsty and less fitted for warfare . 
Logically it does seem to follow from his arguments . 
I take this example because it is the most glaring instance of it . 
Only look about you blood is being spilt in streams , and in the merriest way , as though it were champagne . 
Take the whole of the nineteenth century in which Buckle lived . 
Take Napoleon the Great and also the present one . 
Take North America the eternal union . 
Take the farce of Schleswig Holstein . 
And what is it that civilisation softens in us ? The only gain of civilisation for mankind is the greater capacity for variety of sensations and absolutely nothing more . 
And through the development of this many sidedness man may come to finding enjoyment in bloodshed . 
In fact , this has already happened to him . 
In any case civilisation has made mankind if not more bloodthirsty , at least more vilely , more loathsomely bloodthirsty . 
In old days he saw justice in bloodshed and with his conscience at peace exterminated those he thought proper . 
Now we do think bloodshed abominable and yet we engage in this abomination , and with more energy than ever . 
Which is worse ? Decide that for yourselves . 
was fond of sticking gold pins into her slave girls' breasts and derived gratification from their screams and writhings . 
You are confident that then man will cease from INTENTIONAL error and will , so to say , be compelled not to want to set his will against his normal interests . 
Consequently we have only to discover these laws of nature , and man will no longer have to answer for his actions and life will become exceedingly easy for him . 
Then the Palace of Crystal will be built . 
In fact , those will be halcyon days . 
, but on the other hand everything will be extraordinarily rational . 
Of course boredom may lead you to anything . 
It is boredom sets one sticking golden pins into people , but all that would not matter . 
is that I dare say people will be thankful for the gold pins then . 
And one may choose what is contrary to one's own interests , and sometimes one POSITIVELY OUGHT . 
And choice , of course , the devil only knows what choice . 
VIII Ha ! ha ! ha ! But you know there is no such thing as choice in reality , say what you like , you will interpose with a chuckle . 
I was just going to say that the devil only knows what choice depends on , and that perhaps that was a very good thing , but I remembered the teaching of science . 
And here you have begun upon it . 
Our choice is usually mistaken from a false view of our advantage . 
We sometimes choose absolute nonsense because in our foolishness we see in that nonsense the easiest means for attaining a supposed advantage . 
, then certainly so called desires will no longer exist . 
In short , if this could be arranged there would be nothing left for us to do anyway , we should have to understand that . 
to the chemical retort , there's no help for it , we must accept the retort too , or else it will be accepted without our consent . 
And although our life , in this manifestation of it , is often worthless , yet it is life and not simply extracting square roots . 
and human nature acts as a whole , with everything that is in it , consciously or unconsciously , and , even if it goes wrong , it lives . 
I thoroughly agree , it can by mathematics . 
It is profitable and sometimes even praiseworthy . 
But very often , and even most often , choice is utterly and stubbornly opposed to reason . 
do you know that that , too , is profitable , sometimes even praiseworthy ? Gentlemen , let us suppose that man is not stupid . 
But if he is not stupid , he is monstrously ungrateful ! Phenomenally ungrateful . 
In fact , I believe that the best definition of man is the ungrateful biped . 
But that is not all , that is not his worst defect his worst defect is his perpetual moral obliquity , perpetual from the days of the Flood to the Schleswig Holstein period . 
Moral obliquity and consequently lack of good sense for it has long been accepted that lack of good sense is due to no other cause than moral obliquity . 
Put it to the test and cast your eyes upon the history of mankind . 
What will you see ? Is it a grand spectacle ? Grand , if you like . 
Take the Colossus of Rhodes , for instance , that's worth something . 
With good reason Mr. Anaevsky testifies of it that some say that it is the work of man's hands , while others maintain that it has been created by nature herself . 
In short , one may say anything about the history of the world anything that might enter the most disordered imagination . 
The only thing one can't say is that it's rational . 
The very word sticks in one's throat . 
And yet we all know that those very people sooner or later have been false to themselves , playing some queer trick , often a most unseemly one . 
He would even risk his cakes and would deliberately desire the most fatal rubbish , the most uneconomical absurdity , simply to introduce into all this positive good sense his fatal fantastic element . 
I am , perhaps , jesting against the grain . 
Gentlemen , I am tormented by questions answer them for me . 
You , for instance , want to cure men of their old habits and reform their will in accordance with science and good sense . 
It may be the law of logic , but not the law of humanity . 
You think , gentlemen , perhaps that I am mad ? Allow me to defend myself . 
Man likes to make roads and to create , that is a fact beyond dispute . 
But why has he such a passionate love for destruction and chaos also ? Tell me that ! But on that point I want to say a couple of words myself . 
Now the ants have quite a different taste . 
They have a marvellous edifice of that pattern which endures for ever the ant heap . 
With the ant heap the respectable race of ants began and with the ant heap they will probably end , which does the greatest credit to their perseverance and good sense . 
But man is a frivolous and incongruous creature , and perhaps , like a chess player , loves the process of the game , not the end of it . 
Anyway , man has always been afraid of this mathematical certainty , and I am afraid of it now . 
He feels that when he has found it there will be nothing for him to look for . 
But where can man go ? Anyway , one can observe a certain awkwardness about him when he has attained such objects . 
He loves the process of attaining , but does not quite like to have attained , and that , of course , is very absurd . 
In fact , man is a comical creature there seems to be a kind of jest in it all . 
But yet mathematical certainty is after all , something insufferable . 
Twice two makes four seems to me simply a piece of insolence . 
Twice two makes four is a pert coxcomb who stands with arms akimbo barring your path and spitting . 
I admit that twice two makes four is an excellent thing , but if we are to give everything its due , twice two makes five is sometimes a very charming thing too . 
There is no need to appeal to universal history to prove that only ask yourself , if you are a man and have lived at all . 
As far as my personal opinion is concerned , to care only for well being seems to me positively ill bred . 
Whether it's good or bad , it is sometimes very pleasant , too , to smash things . 
I hold no brief for suffering nor for well being either . 
my caprice , and for its being guaranteed to me when necessary . 
Suffering would be out of place in vaudevilles , for instance I know that . 
Why , suffering is the sole origin of consciousness . 
Though I did lay it down at the beginning that consciousness is the greatest misfortune for man , yet I know man prizes it and would not give it up for any satisfaction . 
Consciousness , for instance , is infinitely superior to twice two makes four . 
Once you have mathematical certainty there is nothing left to do or to understand . 
There will be nothing left but to bottle up your five senses and plunge into contemplation . 
Reactionary as it is , corporal punishment is better than nothing . 
You laugh and say that in such circumstances a hen house is as good as a mansion . 
Yes , I answer , if one had to live simply to keep out of the rain . 
You will only eradicate it when you have changed my preference . 
Well , do change it , allure me with something else , give me another ideal . 
But meanwhile I will not take a hen house for a mansion . 
But what does it matter to me that it is inconsistent ? That makes no difference since it exists in my desires , or rather exists as long as my desires exist . 
Perhaps you are laughing again ? Laugh away I will put up with any mockery rather than pretend that I am satisfied when I am hungry . 
Destroy my desires , eradicate my ideals , show me something better , and I will follow you . 
You will say , perhaps , that it is not worth your trouble but in that case I can give you the same answer . 
We are discussing things seriously but if you won't deign to give me your attention , I will drop your acquaintance . 
I can retreat into my underground hole . 
I did not say because I am so fond of putting my tongue out . 
Perhaps the thing I resented was , that of all your edifices there has not been one at which one could not put out one's tongue . 
On the contrary , I would let my tongue be cut off out of gratitude if things could be so arranged that I should lose all desire to put it out . 
It is not my fault that things cannot be so arranged , and that one must be satisfied with model flats . 
But do you know what I am convinced that we underground folk ought to be kept on a curb . 
Though we may sit forty years underground without speaking , when we do come out into the light of day and break out we talk and talk and talk . 
No , no anyway the underground life is more advantageous . 
There , at any rate , one can . 
I swear to you , gentlemen , there is not one thing , not one word of what I have written that I really believe . 
That is , I believe it , perhaps , but at the same time I feel and suspect that I am lying like a cobbler . 
Then why have you written all this ? you will say to me . 
You thirst for life and try to settle the problems of life by a logical tangle . 
You declare that you are afraid of nothing and at the same time try to ingratiate yourself in our good opinion . 
You declare that you are gnashing your teeth and at the same time you try to be witty so as to amuse us . 
You know that your witticisms are not witty , but you are evidently well satisfied with their literary value . 
You may , perhaps , have really suffered , but you have no respect for your own suffering . 
You may have sincerity , but you have no modesty out of the pettiest vanity you expose your sincerity to publicity and ignominy . 
You doubtlessly mean to say something , but hide your last word through fear , because you have not the resolution to utter it , and only have a cowardly impudence . 
And how intrusive you are , how you insist and grimace ! Lies , lies , lies ! Of course I have myself made up all the things you say . 
That , too , is from underground . 
I have been for forty years listening to you through a crack under the floor . 
I have invented them myself , there was nothing else I could invent . 
It is no wonder that I have learned it by heart and it has taken a literary form . 
Anyway , I am not strong minded enough for that , and I don't see why I should be . 
But you see a fancy has occurred to me and I want to realise it at all costs . 
Every man has reminiscences which he would not tell to everyone , but only to his friends . 
He has other matters in his mind which he would not reveal even to his friends , but only to himself , and that in secret . 
But there are other things which a man is afraid to tell even to himself , and every decent man has a number of such things stored away in his mind . 
The more decent he is , the greater the number of such things in his mind . 
Anyway , I have only lately determined to remember some of my early adventures . 
Till now I have always avoided them , even with a certain uneasiness . 
I will observe , in parenthesis , that Heine says that a true autobiography is almost an impossibility , and that man is bound to lie about himself . 
He considers that Rousseau certainly told lies about himself in his confessions , and even intentionally lied , out of vanity . 
But Heine judged of people who made their confessions to the public . 
It is a form , an empty form I shall never have readers . 
I have made this plain already . 
I don't wish to be hampered by any restrictions in the compilation of my notes . 
I shall not attempt any system or method . 
I will jot things down as I remember them . 
There is a whole psychology in all this , though . 
Perhaps it is simply that I am a coward . 
And perhaps that I purposely imagine an audience before me in order that I may be more dignified while I write . 
There are perhaps thousands of reasons . 
There is something more impressive in it I shall be better able to criticise myself and improve my style . 
Besides , I shall perhaps obtain actual relief from writing . 
Today , for instance , I am particularly oppressed by one memory of a distant past . 
It came back vividly to my mind a few days ago , and has remained haunting me like an annoying tune that one cannot get rid of . 
And yet I must get rid of it somehow . 
I have hundreds of such reminiscences but at times some one stands out from the hundred and oppresses me . 
For some reason I believe that if I write it down I should get rid of it . 
Why not try ? Besides , I am bored , and I never have anything to do . 
Writing will be a sort of work . 
They say work makes man kind hearted and honest . 
Well , here is a chance for me , anyway . 
Snow is falling today , yellow and dingy . 
It fell yesterday , too , and a few days ago . 
I fancy it is the wet snow that has reminded me of that incident which I cannot shake off now . 
And so let it be a story A PROPOS of the falling snow . 
I AT THAT TIME I was only twenty four . 
My life was even then gloomy , ill regulated , and as solitary as that of a savage . 
I made friends with no one and positively avoided talking , and buried myself more and more in my hole . 
I believe I should not have dared to look at anyone with such an unsightly countenance . 
Another had such a very dirty old uniform that there was an unpleasant odour in his proximity . 
Yet not one of these gentlemen showed the slightest self consciousness either about their clothes or their countenance or their character in any way . 
My face may be ugly , I thought , but let it be lofty , expressive , and , above all , EXTREMELY intelligent . 
But I was positively and painfully certain that it was impossible for my countenance ever to express those qualities . 
And what was worst of all , I thought it actually stupid looking , and I would have been quite satisfied if I could have looked intelligent . 
In fact , I would even have put up with looking base if , at the same time , my face could have been thought strikingly intelligent . 
Of course , I hated my fellow clerks one and all , and I despised them all , yet at the same time I was , as it were , afraid of them . 
In fact , it happened at times that I thought more highly of them than of myself . 
It somehow happened quite suddenly that I alternated between despising them and thinking them superior to myself . 
A cultivated and decent man cannot be vain without setting a fearfully high standard for himself , and without despising and almost hating himself at certain moments . 
But whether I despised them or thought them superior I dropped my eyes almost every time I met anyone . 
I even made experiments whether I could face so and so's looking at me , and I was always the first to drop my eyes . 
This worried me to distraction . 
I had a sickly dread , too , of being ridiculous , and so had a slavish passion for the conventional in everything external . 
I loved to fall into the common rut , and had a whole hearted terror of any kind of eccentricity in myself . 
But how could I live up to it ? I was morbidly sensitive as a man of our age should be . 
They were all stupid , and as like one another as so many sheep . 
Perhaps I was the only one in the office who fancied that I was a coward and a slave , and I fancied it just because I was more highly developed . 
But it was not only that I fancied it , it really was so . 
I was a coward and a slave . 
I say this without the slightest embarrassment . 
Every decent man of our age must be a coward and a slave . 
That is his normal condition . 
Of that I am firmly persuaded . 
He is made and constructed to that very end . 
And not only at the present time owing to some casual circumstances , but always , at all times , a decent man is bound to be a coward and a slave . 
It is the law of nature for all decent people all over the earth . 
If anyone of them happens to be valiant about something , he need not be comforted nor carried away by that he would show the white feather just the same before something else . 
That is how it invariably and inevitably ends . 
Only donkeys and mules are valiant , and they only till they are pushed up to the wall . 
It is not worth while to pay attention to them for they really are of no consequence . 
Another circumstance , too , worried me in those days that there was no one like me and I was unlike anyone else . 
I am alone and they are EVERYONE , I thought and pondered . 
From that it is evident that I was still a youngster . 
The very opposite sometimes happened . 
It was loathsome sometimes to go to the office things reached such a point that I often came home ill . 
, and I would laugh myself at my intolerance and fastidiousness , I would reproach myself with being ROMANTIC . 
At one time I was unwilling to speak to anyone , while at other times I would not only talk , but go to the length of contemplating making friends with them . 
All my fastidiousness would suddenly , for no rhyme or reason , vanish . 
Who knows , perhaps I never had really had it , and it had simply been affected , and got out of books . 
I have not decided that question even now . 
Once I quite made friends with them , visited their homes , played preference , drank vodka , talked of promotions . 
But here let me make a digression . 
We , in Russia , have no fools that is well known . 
That is what distinguishes us from foreign lands . 
Consequently these transcendental natures are not found amongst us in their pure form . 
On the contrary , the characteristics of our romantics are absolutely and directly opposed to the transcendental European type , and no European standard can be applied to them . 
Our romantic is a man of great breadth and the greatest rogue of all our rogues , I assure you . 
I can assure you from experience , indeed . 
Of course , that is , if he is intelligent . 
I , for instance , genuinely despised my official work and did not openly abuse it simply because I was in it myself and got a salary for it . 
Anyway , take note , I did not openly abuse it . 
At most , they would take him to the lunatic asylum as the King of Spain if he should go very mad . 
But it is only the thin , fair people who go out of their minds in Russia . 
Innumerable romantics attain later in life to considerable rank in the service . 
Yes , it is only among us that the most incorrigible rogue can be absolutely and loftily honest at heart without in the least ceasing to be a rogue . 
, suddenly display such a sense of reality and practical knowledge that their bewildered superiors and the public generally can only ejaculate in amazement . 
Their many sidedness is really amazing , and goodness knows what it may develop into later on , and what the future has in store for us . 
It is not a poor material ! I do not say this from any foolish or boastful patriotism . 
But I feel sure that you are again imagining that I am joking . 
Or perhaps it's just the contrary and you are convinced that I really think so . 
Anyway , gentlemen , I shall welcome both views as an honour and a special favour . 
And do forgive my digression . 
That , however , only happened to me once . 
As a rule , I was always alone . 
In the first place I spent most of my time at home , reading . 
I tried to stifle all that was continually seething within me by means of external impressions . 
And the only external means I had was reading . 
Reading , of course , was a great help exciting me , giving me pleasure and pain . 
But at times it bored me fearfully . 
One longed for movement in spite of everything , and I plunged all at once into dark , underground , loathsome vice of the pettiest kind . 
My wretched passions were acute , smarting , from my continual , sickly irritability I had hysterical impulses , with tears and convulsions . 
I had no resource except reading , that is , there was nothing in my surroundings which I could respect and which attracted me . 
I was overwhelmed with depression , too I had an hysterical craving for incongruity and for contrast , and so I took to vice . 
I have not said all this to justify myself . 
But , no ! I am lying . 
I did want to justify myself . 
I make that little observation for my own benefit , gentlemen . 
I don't want to lie . 
I vowed to myself I would not . 
Already even then I had my underground world in my soul . 
I was fearfully afraid of being seen , of being met , of being recognised . 
I visited various obscure haunts . 
One night as I was passing a tavern I saw through a lighted window some gentlemen fighting with billiard cues , and saw one of them thrown out of the window . 
Perhaps , I thought , I'll have a fight , too , and they'll throw me out of the window . 
I was not drunk but what is one to do depression will drive a man to such a pitch of hysteria ? But nothing happened . 
It seemed that I was not even equal to being thrown out of the window and I went away without having my fight . 
An officer put me in my place from the first moment . 
I could have forgiven blows , but I could not forgive his having moved me without noticing me . 
Devil knows what I would have given for a real regular quarrel a more decent , a more LITERARY one , so to speak . 
I had been treated like a fly . 
This officer was over six foot , while I was a spindly little fellow . 
But the quarrel was in my hands . 
I had only to protest and I certainly would have been thrown out of the window . 
But I changed my mind and preferred to beat a resentful retreat . 
Don't be in a hurry to laugh I assure you I can explain it all . 
who preferred fighting with cues or , like Gogol's Lieutenant Pirogov , appealing to the police . 
But they were quite ready to bully , especially when they were over six foot . 
I did not slink away through cowardice , but through an unbounded vanity . 
one cannot speak among us except in literary language . 
You can't allude to the point of honour in ordinary language . 
Of course , this trivial incident could not with me end in that . 
I often met that officer afterwards in the street and noticed him very carefully . 
I am not quite sure whether he recognised me , I imagine not I judge from certain signs . 
But I I stared at him with spite and hatred and so it went on . 
for several years ! My resentment grew even deeper with years . 
At first I began making stealthy inquiries about this officer . 
It was difficult for me to do so , for I knew no one . 
I wrote the novel with relish . 
But at that time such attacks were not the fashion and my story was not printed . 
That was a great vexation to me . 
Sometimes I was positively choked with resentment . 
At last I determined to challenge my enemy to a duel . 
I composed a splendid , charming letter to him , imploring him to apologise to me , and hinting rather plainly at a duel in case of refusal . 
my ideas , and all sorts of things might have happened . 
I did not send the letter to him . 
Cold shivers run down my back when I think of what might have happened if I had sent it . 
And all at once I revenged myself in the simplest way , by a stroke of genius ! A brilliant thought suddenly dawned upon me . 
Sometimes on holidays I used to stroll along the sunny side of the Nevsky about four o'clock in the afternoon . 
Though it was hardly a stroll so much as a series of innumerable miseries , humiliations and resentments but no doubt that was just what I wanted . 
Why I inflicted this torture upon myself , why I went to the Nevsky , I don't know . 
I felt simply drawn there at every possible opportunity . 
Already then I began to experience a rush of the enjoyment of which I spoke in the first chapter . 
After my affair with the officer I felt even more drawn there than before it was on the Nevsky that I met him most frequently , there I could admire him . 
I gloated over my resentment watching him and . 
always resentfully made way for him . 
It exasperated me that even in the street I could not be on an even footing with him . 
Why must you invariably be the first to move aside ? I kept asking myself in hysterical rage , waking up sometimes at three o'clock in the morning . 
Why is it you and not he ? There's no regulation about it there's no written law . 
Let the making way be equal as it usually is when refined people meet he moves half way and you move half way you pass with mutual respect . 
But that never happened , and I always moved aside , while he did not even notice my making way for him . 
This intention seemed to me more and more practical and possible . 
Of course I shall not really push him , I thought , already more good natured in my joy . 
I will simply not turn aside , will run up against him , not very violently , but just shouldering each other just as much as decency permits . 
I will push against him just as much as he pushes against me . 
At last I made up my mind completely . 
But my preparations took a great deal of time . 
To begin with , when I carried out my plan I should need to be looking rather more decent , and so I had to think of my get up . 
, I must be well dressed that inspires respect and of itself puts us on an equal footing in the eyes of the society . 
With this object I asked for some of my salary in advance , and bought at Tchurkin's a pair of black gloves and a decent hat . 
Black gloves seemed to me both more dignified and BON TON than the lemon coloured ones which I had contemplated at first . 
The colour is too gaudy , it looks as though one were trying to be conspicuous , and I did not take the lemon coloured ones . 
I had got ready long beforehand a good shirt , with white bone studs my overcoat was the only thing that held me back . 
The coat in itself was a very good one , it kept me warm but it was wadded and it had a raccoon collar which was the height of vulgarity . 
I had to change the collar at any sacrifice , and to have a beaver one like an officer's . 
For this purpose I began visiting the Gostiny Dvor and after several attempts I pitched upon a piece of cheap German beaver . 
Though these German beavers soon grow shabby and look wretched , yet at first they look exceedingly well , and I only needed it for the occasion . 
I asked the price even so , it was too expensive . 
After thinking it over thoroughly I decided to sell my raccoon collar . 
The rest of the money a considerable sum for me , I decided to borrow from Anton Antonitch Syetotchkin , my immediate superior , an unassuming person , though grave and judicious . 
He never lent money to anyone , but I had , on entering the service , been specially recommended to him by an important personage who had got me my berth . 
To borrow from Anton Antonitch seemed to me monstrous and shameful . 
I did not sleep for two or three nights . 
In this way everything was at last ready . 
The handsome beaver replaced the mean looking raccoon , and I began by degrees to get to work . 
It would never have done to act offhand , at random the plan had to be carried out skilfully , by degrees . 
But I must confess that after many efforts I began to despair we simply could not run into each other . 
I even prayed as I approached him that God would grant me determination . 
He very calmly stepped over me , while I flew on one side like a ball . 
That night I was ill again , feverish and delirious . 
And suddenly it ended most happily . 
I am convinced of that to this day ! Of course , I got the worst of it he was stronger , but that was not the point . 
I returned home feeling that I was fully avenged for everything . 
I was triumphant and sang Italian arias . 
Of course , I will not describe to you what happened to me three days later if you have read my first chapter you can guess for yourself . 
The officer was afterwards transferred I have not seen him now for fourteen years . 
What is the dear fellow doing now ? Whom is he walking over ? II But the period of my dissipation would end and I always felt very sick afterwards . 
It was followed by remorse I tried to drive it away I felt too sick . 
By degrees , however , I grew used to that too . 
I grew used to everything , or rather I voluntarily resigned myself to enduring it . 
But I had a means of escape that reconciled everything that was to find refuge in the sublime and the beautiful , in dreams , of course . 
I suddenly became a hero . 
I would not have admitted my six foot lieutenant even if he had called on me . 
I could not even picture him before me then . 
What were my dreams and how I could satisfy myself with them it is hard to say now , but at the time I was satisfied with them . 
Though , indeed , even now , I am to some extent satisfied with them . 
Dreams were particularly sweet and vivid after a spell of dissipation they came with remorse and with tears , with curses and transports . 
There were moments of such positive intoxication , of such happiness , that there was not the faintest trace of irony within me , on my honour . 
I had faith , hope , love . 
would rise up before me and I should come out into the light of day , almost riding a white horse and crowned with laurel . 
Anything but the foremost place I could not conceive for myself , and for that very reason I quite contentedly occupied the lowest in reality . 
Either to be a hero or to grovel in the mud there was nothing between . 
It is worth noting that these attacks of the sublime and the beautiful visited me even during the period of dissipation and just at the times when I was touching the bottom . 
They came in separate spurts , as though reminding me of themselves , but did not banish the dissipation by their appearance . 
On the contrary , they seemed to add a zest to it by contrast , and were only sufficiently present to serve as an appetising sauce . 
There was a certain depth of meaning in it . 
And I could hardly have resigned myself to the simple , vulgar , direct debauchery of a clerk and have endured all the filthiness of it . 
What could have allured me about it then and have drawn me at night into the street ? No , I had a lofty way of getting out of it all . 
, while I should go barefoot and hungry preaching new ideas and fighting a victorious Austerlitz against the obscurantists . 
It did not all happen on the shores of Lake Como . 
And yet you are right it really is vulgar and contemptible . 
And most contemptible of all it is that now I am attempting to justify myself to you . 
And even more contemptible than that is my making this remark now . 
But that's enough , or there will be no end to it each step will be more contemptible than the last . 
I could never stand more than three months of dreaming at a time without feeling an irresistible desire to plunge into society . 
To plunge into society meant to visit my superior at the office , Anton Antonitch Syetotchkin . 
He was the only permanent acquaintance I have had in my life , and I wonder at the fact myself now . 
He had two daughters and their aunt , who used to pour out the tea . 
Of the daughters one was thirteen and another fourteen , they both had snub noses , and I was awfully shy of them because they were always whispering and giggling together . 
I never saw more than two or three visitors there , always the same . 
They talked about the excise duty about business in the senate , about salaries , about promotions , about His Excellency , and the best means of pleasing him , and so on . 
I became stupefied , several times I felt myself perspiring , I was overcome by a sort of paralysis but this was pleasant and good for me . 
On returning home I deferred for a time my desire to embrace all mankind . 
I had however one other acquaintance of a sort , Simonov , who was an old schoolfellow . 
I had a number of schoolfellows , indeed , in Petersburg , but I did not associate with them and had even given up nodding to them in the street . 
I believe I had transferred into the department I was in simply to avoid their company and to cut off all connection with my hateful childhood . 
Curses on that school and all those terrible years of penal servitude ! In short , I parted from my schoolfellows as soon as I got out into the world . 
There were two or three left to whom I nodded in the street . 
I had at one time spent some rather soulful moments with him , but these had not lasted long and had somehow been suddenly clouded over . 
He was evidently uncomfortable at these reminiscences , and was , I fancy , always afraid that I might take up the same tone again . 
I suspected that he had an aversion for me , but still I went on going to see him , not being quite certain of it . 
And so on one occasion , unable to endure my solitude and knowing that as it was Thursday Anton Antonitch's door would be closed , I thought of Simonov . 
Climbing up to his fourth storey I was thinking that the man disliked me and that it was a mistake to go and see him . 
But as it always happened that such reflections impelled me , as though purposely , to put myself into a false position , I went in . 
It was almost a year since I had last seen Simonov . 
III I found two of my old schoolfellows with him . 
They seemed to be discussing an important matter . 
All of them took scarcely any notice of my entrance , which was strange , for I had not met them for years . 
Evidently they looked upon me as something on the level of a common fly . 
I had not been treated like that even at school , though they all hated me . 
But I had not expected such contempt . 
Simonov was positively surprised at my turning up . 
Even in old days he had always seemed surprised at my coming . 
All this disconcerted me I sat down , feeling rather miserable , and began listening to what they were saying . 
This Zverkov had been all the time at school with me too . 
I had begun to hate him particularly in the upper forms . 
In the lower forms he had simply been a pretty , playful boy whom everybody liked . 
I had hated him , however , even in the lower forms , just because he was a pretty and playful boy . 
He was always bad at his lessons and got worse and worse as he went on however , he left with a good certificate , as he had powerful interests . 
During his last year at school he came in for an estate of two hundred serfs , and as almost all of us were poor he took up a swaggering tone among us . 
He was vulgar in the extreme , but at the same time he was a good natured fellow , even in his swaggering . 
In spite of superficial , fantastic and sham notions of honour and dignity , all but very few of us positively grovelled before Zverkov , and the more so the more he swaggered . 
And it was not from any interested motive that they grovelled , but simply because he had been favoured by the gifts of nature . 
Moreover , it was , as it were , an accepted idea among us that Zverkov was a specialist in regard to tact and the social graces . 
This last fact particularly infuriated me . 
, and the free and easy military manners in fashion in the 'forties . 
, and boasted of the duels he would constantly be fighting . 
Our servile rabble applauded , but I attacked him , not from compassion for the girls and their fathers , but simply because they were applauding such an insect . 
He got the better of me on several occasions afterwards , but without malice , jestingly , casually . 
I remained angrily and contemptuously silent and would not answer him . 
When we left school he made advances to me I did not rebuff them , for I was flattered , but we soon parted and quite naturally . 
Afterwards I heard of his barrack room success as a lieutenant , and of the fast life he was leading . 
Then there came other rumours of his successes in the service . 
By then he had taken to cutting me in the street , and I suspected that he was afraid of compromising himself by greeting a personage as insignificant as me . 
I saw him once in the theatre , in the third tier of boxes . 
By then he was wearing shoulder straps . 
He was twisting and twirling about , ingratiating himself with the daughters of an ancient General . 
In three years he had gone off considerably , though he was still rather handsome and adroit . 
One could see that by the time he was thirty he would be corpulent . 
So it was to this Zverkov that my schoolfellows were going to give a dinner on his departure . 
They had kept up with him for those three years , though privately they did not consider themselves on an equal footing with him , I am convinced of that . 
He was one of those worshippers of Zverkov who made up to the latter from interested motives , and often borrowed money from him . 
He was some sort of distant relation of Zverkov's , and this , foolish as it seems , gave him a certain importance among us . 
He always thought me of no consequence whatever his behaviour to me , though not quite courteous , was tolerable . 
Well , with seven roubles each , said Trudolyubov , twenty one roubles between the three of us , we ought to be able to get a good dinner . 
Zverkov , of course , won't pay . 
Of course not , since we are inviting him , Simonov decided . 
Do we want half a dozen for the four of us ? observed Trudolyubov , taking notice only of the half dozen . 
How twenty one roubles ? I asked in some agitation , with a show of being offended if you count me it will not be twenty one , but twenty eight roubles . 
It seemed to me that to invite myself so suddenly and unexpectedly would be positively graceful , and that they would all be conquered at once and would look at me with respect . 
Do you want to join , too ? Simonov observed , with no appearance of pleasure , seeming to avoid looking at me . 
He knew me through and through . 
It infuriated me that he knew me so thoroughly . 
And where were we to find you ? Ferfitchkin put in roughly . 
You never were on good terms with Zverkov , Trudolyubov added , frowning . 
But I had already clutched at the idea and would not give it up . 
It seems to me that no one has a right to form an opinion upon that , I retorted in a shaking voice , as though something tremendous had happened . 
Perhaps that is just my reason for wishing it now , that I have not always been on good terms with him . 
Oh , there's no making you out . 
with these refinements , Trudolyubov jeered . 
We'll put your name down , Simonov decided , addressing me . 
Tomorrow at five o'clock at the Hotel de Paris . 
What about the money ? Ferfitchkin began in an undertone , indicating me to Simonov , but he broke off , for even Simonov was embarrassed . 
That will do , said Trudolyubov , getting up . 
If he wants to come so much , let him . 
But it's a private thing , between us friends , Ferfitchkin said crossly , as he , too , picked up his hat . 
It's not an official gathering . 
We do not want at all , perhaps . 
Ferfitchkin did not greet me in any way as he went out , Trudolyubov barely nodded . 
Simonov , with whom I was left TETE A TETE , was in a state of vexation and perplexity , and looked at me queerly . 
He did not sit down and did not ask me to . 
Will you pay your subscription now ? I just ask so as to know , he muttered in embarrassment . 
You will understand , Simonov , that I could have no idea when I came here . 
I am very much vexed that I have forgotten . 
All right , all right , that doesn't matter . 
You can pay tomorrow after the dinner . 
I simply wanted to know . 
He broke off and began pacing the room still more vexed . 
As he walked he began to stamp with his heels . 
Am I keeping you ? I asked , after two minutes of silence . 
Oh ! he said , starting , that is to be truthful yes . 
I have to go and see someone . 
not far from here , he added in an apologetic voice , somewhat abashed . 
not two paces away , Simonov repeated , accompanying me to the front door with a fussy air which did not suit him at all . 
So five o'clock , punctually , tomorrow , he called down the stairs after me . 
He was very glad to get rid of me . 
I was in a fury . 
I am not bound in any way . 
I'll send Simonov a note by tomorrow's post . 
And there was a positive obstacle to my going I had no money . 
All I had was nine roubles , I had to give seven of that to my servant , Apollon , for his monthly wages . 
That was all I paid him he had to keep himself . 
Not to pay him was impossible , considering his character . 
But I will talk about that fellow , about that plague of mine , another time . 
However , I knew I should go and should not pay him his wages . 
That night I had the most hideous dreams . 
No wonder all the evening I had been oppressed by memories of my miserable days at school , and I could not shake them off . 
My schoolfellows met me with spiteful and merciless jibes because I was not like any of them . 
But I could not endure their taunts I could not give in to them with the ignoble readiness with which they gave in to one another . 
I hated them from the first , and shut myself away from everyone in timid , wounded and disproportionate pride . 
They laughed cynically at my face , at my clumsy figure and yet what stupid faces they had themselves . 
In our school the boys' faces seemed in a special way to degenerate and grow stupider . 
How many fine looking boys came to us ! In a few years they became repulsive . 
Even at sixteen I wondered at them morosely even then I was struck by the pettiness of their thoughts , the stupidity of their pursuits , their games , their conversations . 
They had no understanding of such essential things , they took no interest in such striking , impressive subjects , that I could not help considering them inferior to myself . 
They understood nothing , they had no idea of real life , and I swear that that was what made me most indignant with them . 
On the contrary , the most obvious , striking reality they accepted with fantastic stupidity and even at that time were accustomed to respect success . 
Everything that was just , but oppressed and looked down upon , they laughed at heartlessly and shamefully . 
They took rank for intelligence even at sixteen they were already talking about a snug berth . 
Of course , a great deal of it was due to their stupidity , to the bad examples with which they had always been surrounded in their childhood and boyhood . 
I hated them horribly , though perhaps I was worse than any of them . 
They repaid me in the same way , and did not conceal their aversion for me . 
But by then I did not desire their affection on the contrary , I continually longed for their humiliation . 
To escape from their derision I purposely began to make all the progress I could with my studies and forced my way to the very top . 
of which they had not even heard . 
They took a savage and sarcastic view of it , but were morally impressed , especially as the teachers began to notice me on those grounds . 
The mockery ceased , but the hostility remained , and cold and strained relations became permanent between us . 
In the end I could not put up with it with years a craving for society , for friends , developed in me . 
I attempted to get on friendly terms with some of my schoolfellows but somehow or other my intimacy with them was always strained and soon ended of itself . 
Once , indeed , I did have a friend . 
I frightened him with my passionate affection I reduced him to tears , to hysterics . 
But I could not subjugate all of them my friend was not at all like them either , he was , in fact , a rare exception . 
But I believed that some radical change in my life was coming , and would inevitably come that day . 
Owing to its rarity , perhaps , any external event , however trivial , always made me feel as though some radical change in my life were at hand . 
I went to the office , however , as usual , but sneaked away home two hours earlier to get ready . 
The great thing , I thought , is not to be the first to arrive , or they will think I am overjoyed at coming . 
But there were thousands of such great points to consider , and they all agitated and overwhelmed me . 
I stole the brushes to clean them from the passage , being careful he should not detect it , for fear of his contempt . 
Then I minutely examined my clothes and thought that everything looked old , worn and threadbare . 
I had let myself get too slovenly . 
My uniform , perhaps , was tidy , but I could not go out to dinner in my uniform . 
The worst of it was that on the knee of my trousers was a big yellow stain . 
I had a foreboding that that stain would deprive me of nine tenths of my personal dignity . 
I knew , too , that it was very poor to think so . 
But this is no time for thinking now I am in for the real thing , I thought , and my heart sank . 
I knew , too , perfectly well even then , that I was monstrously exaggerating the facts . 
But how could I help it ? I could not control myself and was already shaking with fever . 
Of course , the best thing would be not to go at all . 
But that was most impossible of all if I feel impelled to do anything , I seem to be pitchforked into it . 
They would abandon Zverkov , he would sit on one side , silent and ashamed , while I should crush him . 
At last my wretched little clock hissed out five . 
IV I had been certain the day before that I should be the first to arrive . 
But it was not a question of being the first to arrive . 
Not only were they not there , but I had difficulty in finding our room . 
The table was not laid even . 
What did it mean ? After a good many questions I elicited from the waiters that the dinner had been ordered not for five , but for six o'clock . 
This was confirmed at the buffet too . 
I felt really ashamed to go on questioning them . 
It was only twenty five minutes past five . 
and even before the waiters . 
I sat down the servant began laying the table I felt even more humiliated when he was present . 
Towards six o'clock they brought in candles , though there were lamps burning in the room . 
It had not occurred to the waiter , however , to bring them in at once when I arrived . 
In the next room two gloomy , angry looking persons were eating their dinners in silence at two different tables . 
It was sickening , in fact . 
Zverkov walked in at the head of them evidently he was the leading spirit . 
I had imagined , on the contrary , that on coming in he would at once break into his habitual thin , shrill laugh and fall to making his insipid jokes and witticisms . 
I had been preparing for them ever since the previous day , but I had not expected such condescension , such high official courtesy . 
I was surprised to hear of your desire to join us , he began , lisping and drawling , which was something new . 
You and I seem to have seen nothing of one another . 
You fight shy of us . 
We are not such terrible people as you think . 
Well , anyway , I am glad to renew our acquaintance . 
And he turned carelessly to put down his hat on the window . 
Have you been waiting long ? Trudolyubov inquired . 
I arrived at five o'clock as you told me yesterday , I answered aloud , with an irritability that threatened an explosion . 
Didn't you let him know that we had changed the hour ? said Trudolyubov to Simonov . 
I forgot , the latter replied , with no sign of regret , and without even apologising to me he went off to order the HORS D'OEUVRE . 
So you've been here a whole hour ? Oh , poor fellow ! Zverkov cried ironically , for to his notions this was bound to be extremely funny . 
That rascal Ferfitchkin followed with his nasty little snigger like a puppy yapping . 
My position struck him , too , as exquisitely ludicrous and embarrassing . 
It isn't funny at all ! I cried to Ferfitchkin , more and more irritated . 
It wasn't my fault , but other people's . 
They neglected to let me know . 
It's not only absurd , but something else as well , muttered Trudolyubov , naively taking my part . 
You are not hard enough upon it . 
It was simply rudeness unintentional , of course . 
h'm ! If a trick like that had been played on me , observed Ferfitchkin , I should . 
But you should have ordered something for yourself , Zverkov interrupted , or simply asked for dinner without waiting for us . 
You will allow that I might have done that without your permission , I rapped out . 
If I waited , it was . 
Let us sit down , gentlemen , cried Simonov , coming in . 
Everything is ready I can answer for the champagne it is capitally frozen . 
You see , I did not know your address , where was I to look for you ? he suddenly turned to me , but again he seemed to avoid looking at me . 
Evidently he had something against me . 
It must have been what happened yesterday . 
All sat down I did the same . 
It was a round table . 
Trudolyubov was on my left , Simonov on my right , Zverkov was sitting opposite , Ferfitchkin next to him , between him and Trudolyubov . 
Tell me , are you . 
in a government office ? Zverkov went on attending to me . 
Seeing that I was embarrassed he seriously thought that he ought to be friendly to me , and , so to speak , cheer me up . 
Does he want me to throw a bottle at his head ? I thought , in a fury . 
In my novel surroundings I was unnaturally ready to be irritated . 
In the N office , I answered jerkily , with my eyes on my plate . 
Ferfitchkin went off into a guffaw . 
Simonov looked at me ironically . 
Trudolyubov left off eating and began looking at me with curiosity . 
Zverkov winced , but he tried not to notice it . 
And the remuneration ? What remuneration ? I mean , your sa a lary ? Why are you cross examining me ? However , I told him at once what my salary was . 
It is not very handsome , Zverkov observed majestically . 
Yes , you can't afford to dine at cafes on that , Ferfitchkin added insolently . 
To my thinking it's very poor , Trudolyubov observed gravely . 
Oh , spare his blushes , cried Ferfitchkin , sniggering . 
Wha at ? Isn't every one here dining at his own expense ? You would seem to be . 
Ferfitchkin flew out at me , turning as red as a lobster , and looking me in the face with fury . 
Tha at , I answered , feeling I had gone too far , and I imagine it would be better to talk of something more intelligent . 
You intend to show off your intelligence , I suppose ? Don't disturb yourself , that would be quite out of place here . 
How stupid it is ! muttered Simonov . 
We have met here , a company of friends , for a farewell dinner to a comrade and you carry on an altercation , said Trudolyubov , rudely addressing himself to me alone . 
You invited yourself to join us , so don't disturb the general harmony . 
Enough , enough ! cried Zverkov . 
Give over , gentlemen , it's out of place . 
Better let me tell you how I nearly got married the day before yesterday . 
And then followed a burlesque narrative of how this gentleman had almost been married two days before . 
There was not a word about the marriage , however , but the story was adorned with generals , colonels and kammer junkers , while Zverkov almost took the lead among them . 
It was greeted with approving laughter Ferfitchkin positively squealed . 
No one paid any attention to me , and I sat crushed and humiliated . 
Good Heavens , these are not the people for me ! I thought . 
And what a fool I have made of myself before them ! I let Ferfitchkin go too far , though . 
The brutes imagine they are doing me an honour in letting me sit down with them . 
But what's the use ! I must get up at once , this very minute , take my hat and simply go without a word . 
with contempt ! And tomorrow I can send a challenge . 
The scoundrels ! As though I cared about the seven roubles . 
Damn it ! I don't care about the seven roubles . 
I'll go this minute ! Of course I remained . 
I drank sherry and Lafitte by the glassful in my discomfiture . 
Being unaccustomed to it , I was quickly affected . 
My annoyance increased as the wine went to my head . 
I longed all at once to insult them all in a most flagrant manner and then go away . 
To seize the moment and show what I could do , so that they would say , He's clever , though he is absurd , and . 
in fact , damn them all ! I scanned them all insolently with my drowsy eyes . 
But they seemed to have forgotten me altogether . 
They were noisy , vociferous , cheerful . 
Zverkov was talking all the time . 
, and how he had been helped in this affair by an intimate friend of his , a Prince Kolya , an officer in the hussars , who had three thousand serfs . 
And yet this Kolya , who has three thousand serfs , has not put in an appearance here tonight to see you off , I cut in suddenly . 
For one minute every one was silent . 
Trudolyubov deigned to notice me at last , glancing contemptuously in my direction . 
Zverkov , without a word , examined me as though I were an insect . 
Simonov made haste to fill up the glasses with champagne . 
Trudolyubov raised his glass , as did everyone else but me . 
Your health and good luck on the journey ! he cried to Zverkov . 
To old times , to our future , hurrah ! They all tossed off their glasses , and crowded round Zverkov to kiss him . 
I did not move my full glass stood untouched before me . 
Why , aren't you going to drink it ? roared Trudolyubov , losing patience and turning menacingly to me . 
I want to make a speech separately , on my own account . 
and then I'll drink it , Mr. Trudolyubov . 
Spiteful brute ! muttered Simonov . 
I drew myself up in my chair and feverishly seized my glass , prepared for something extraordinary , though I did not know myself precisely what I was going to say . 
Now for a display of wit ! Zverkov waited very gravely , knowing what was coming . 
Mr. Lieutenant Zverkov , I began , let me tell you that I hate phrases , phrasemongers and men in corsets . 
that's the first point , and there is a second one to follow it . 
There was a general stir . 
The second point is I hate ribaldry and ribald talkers . 
Especially ribald talkers ! The third point I love justice , truth and honesty . 
I went on almost mechanically , for I was beginning to shiver with horror myself and had no idea how I came to be talking like this . 
I love thought , Monsieur Zverkov I love true comradeship , on an equal footing and not . 
But , however , why not ? I will drink your health , too , Mr. Zverkov . 
Seduce the Circassian girls , shoot the enemies of the fatherland and . 
to your health , Monsieur Zverkov ! Zverkov got up from his seat , bowed to me and said I am very much obliged to you . 
He was frightfully offended and turned pale . 
Damn the fellow ! roared Trudolyubov , bringing his fist down on the table . 
Well , he wants a punch in the face for that , squealed Ferfitchkin . 
We ought to turn him out , muttered Simonov . 
Not a word , gentlemen , not a movement ! cried Zverkov solemnly , checking the general indignation . 
I thank you all , but I can show him for myself how much value I attach to his words . 
Mr. Ferfitchkin , you will give me satisfaction tomorrow for your words just now ! I said aloud , turning with dignity to Ferfitchkin . 
A duel , you mean ? Certainly , he answered . 
But probably I was so ridiculous as I challenged him and it was so out of keeping with my appearance that everyone including Ferfitchkin was prostrate with laughter . 
Yes , let him alone , of course ! He is quite drunk , Trudolyubov said with disgust . 
I shall never forgive myself for letting him join us , Simonov muttered again . 
Now is the time to throw a bottle at their heads , I thought to myself . 
I picked up the bottle . 
No , I'd better sit on to the end , I went on thinking you would be pleased , my friends , if I went away . 
Nothing will induce me to go . 
I'll go on sitting here and drinking to the end , on purpose , as a sign that I don't think you of the slightest consequence . 
I will go on sitting and drinking , because this is a public house and I paid my entrance money . 
I'll sit here and drink , for I look upon you as so many pawns , as inanimate pawns . 
I'll sit here and drink . 
and sing if I want to , yes , sing , for I have the right to . 
H'm ! But I did not sing . 
I simply tried not to look at any of them . 
I assumed most unconcerned attitudes and waited with impatience for them to speak FIRST . 
They moved from the table to the sofa . 
Zverkov stretched himself on a lounge and put one foot on a round table . 
He did , as a fact , order three bottles on his own account . 
I , of course , was not invited to join them . 
They all sat round him on the sofa . 
They listened to him , almost with reverence . 
It was evident that they were fond of him . 
What for ? What for ? I wondered . 
From time to time they were moved to drunken enthusiasm and kissed each other . 
I smiled contemptuously and walked up and down the other side of the room , opposite the sofa , from the table to the stove and back again . 
I tried my very utmost to show them that I could do without them , and yet I purposely made a noise with my boots , thumping with my heels . 
But it was all in vain . 
I had the patience to walk up and down in front of them from eight o'clock till eleven , in the same place , from the table to the stove and back again . 
I walk up and down to please myself and no one can prevent me . 
The waiter who came into the room stopped , from time to time , to look at me . 
I was somewhat giddy from turning round so often at moments it seemed to me that I was in delirium . 
During those three hours I was three times soaked with sweat and dry again . 
But my enemies behaved as though I were not in the room . 
Once only once they turned towards me , just when Zverkov was talking about Shakespeare , and I suddenly gave a contemptuous laugh . 
But nothing came of it they said nothing , and two minutes later they ceased to notice me again . 
Friends , cried Zverkov getting up from the sofa , let us all be off now , THERE ! Of course , of course , the others assented . 
I turned sharply to Zverkov . 
I was so harassed , so exhausted , that I would have cut my throat to put an end to it . 
I was in a fever my hair , soaked with perspiration , stuck to my forehead and temples . 
Zverkov , I beg your pardon , I said abruptly and resolutely . 
Ferfitchkin , yours too , and everyone's , everyone's I have insulted you all ! Aha ! A duel is not in your line , old man , Ferfitchkin hissed venomously . 
It sent a sharp pang to my heart . 
No , it's not the duel I am afraid of , Ferfitchkin ! I am ready to fight you tomorrow , after we are reconciled . 
I insist upon it , in fact , and you cannot refuse . 
I want to show you that I am not afraid of a duel . 
You shall fire first and I shall fire into the air . 
He is comforting himself , said Simonov . 
He's simply raving , said Trudolyubov . 
Why are you barring our way ? What do you want ? Zverkov answered disdainfully . 
They were all flushed , their eyes were bright they had been drinking heavily . 
I ask for your friendship , Zverkov I insulted you , but . 
Insulted ? YOU insulted ME ? Understand , sir , that you never , under any circumstances , could possibly insult ME . 
And that's enough for you . 
Out of the way ! concluded Trudolyubov . 
Olympia is mine , friends , that's agreed ! cried Zverkov . 
We won't dispute your right , we won't dispute your right , the others answered , laughing . 
I stood as though spat upon . 
The party went noisily out of the room . 
Trudolyubov struck up some stupid song . 
Simonov remained behind for a moment to tip the waiters . 
I suddenly went up to him . 
Simonov ! give me six roubles ! I said , with desperate resolution . 
He looked at me in extreme amazement , with vacant eyes . 
He , too , was drunk . 
You don't mean you are coming with us ? Yes . 
I've no money , he snapped out , and with a scornful laugh he went out of the room . 
I clutched at his overcoat . 
Simonov , I saw you had money . 
Take it , if you have no sense of shame ! he pronounced pitilessly , and ran to overtake them . 
I was left for a moment alone . 
I am going there ! I cried . 
No matter ! I cried , answering myself . 
Now everything is lost ! There was no trace to be seen of them , but that made no difference I knew where they had gone . 
At the steps was standing a solitary night sledge driver in a rough peasant coat , powdered over with the still falling , wet , and as it were warm , snow . 
It was hot and steamy . 
The little shaggy piebald horse was also covered with snow and coughing , I remember that very well . 
No , I must do a great deal to make up for all that , I cried . 
But I will make up for it or perish on the spot this very night . 
Start ! We set off . 
There was a perfect whirl in my head . 
They won't go down on their knees to beg for my friendship . 
That is a mirage , cheap mirage , revolting , romantic and fantastical that's another ball on Lake Como . 
And so I am bound to slap Zverkov's face ! It is my duty to . 
And so it is settled I am flying to give him a slap in the face . 
Hurry up ! The driver tugged at the reins . 
As soon as I go in I'll give it him . 
Ought I before giving him the slap to say a few words by way of preface ? No. I'll simply go in and give it him . 
They will all be sitting in the drawing room , and he with Olympia on the sofa . 
That damned Olympia ! She laughed at my looks on one occasion and refused me . 
I'll pull Olympia's hair , pull Zverkov's ears ! No , better one ear , and pull him by it round the room . 
Maybe they will all begin beating me and will kick me out . 
That's most likely , indeed . 
He will be forced to fight . 
And let them beat me now . 
Let them , the ungrateful wretches ! Trudolyubov will beat me hardest , he is so strong Ferfitchkin will be sure to catch hold sideways and tug at my hair . 
But no matter , no matter ! That's what I am going for . 
Get on , driver , get on ! I cried to the driver . 
He started and flicked his whip , I shouted so savagely . 
We shall fight at daybreak , that's a settled thing . 
I've done with the office . 
Ferfitchkin made a joke about it just now . 
But where can I get pistols ? Nonsense ! I'll get my salary in advance and buy them . 
And powder , and bullets ? That's the second's business . 
And how can it all be done by daybreak ? and where am I to get a second ? I have no friends . 
Nonsense ! I cried , lashing myself up more and more . 
The most eccentric things may happen . 
Get on , driver , get on , you rascal , get on ! Ugh , sir ! said the son of toil . 
Cold shivers suddenly ran down me . 
to go straight home ? My God , my God ! Why did I invite myself to this dinner yesterday ? But no , it's impossible . 
And what if Zverkov is so contemptuous that he refuses to fight a duel ? He is sure to but in that case I'll show them . 
I will turn up at the posting station when he's setting off tomorrow , I'll catch him by the leg , I'll pull off his coat when he gets into the carriage . 
I'll get my teeth into his hand , I'll bite him . 
See what lengths you can drive a desperate man to ! He may hit me on the head and they may belabour me from behind . 
I shall be arrested , I shall be tried , I shall be dismissed from the service , thrown in prison , sent to Siberia . 
Never mind ! In fifteen years when they let me out of prison I will trudge off to him , a beggar , in rags . 
I shall find him in some provincial town . 
He will be married and happy . 
He will have a grown up daughter . 
I have come to discharge my pistol and . 
Then I shall fire into the air and he will hear nothing more of me . 
I was actually on the point of tears , though I knew perfectly well at that moment that all this was out of Pushkin's SILVIO and Lermontov's MASQUERADE . 
The driver gazed at me , sighing and astonished . 
What was I to do ? I could not go on there it was evidently stupid , and I could not leave things as they were , because that would seem as though . 
Heavens , how could I leave things ! And after such insults ! No ! I cried , throwing myself into the sledge again . 
It is ordained ! It is fate ! Drive on , drive on ! And in my impatience I punched the sledge driver on the back of the neck . 
What are you up to ? What are you hitting me for ? the peasant shouted , but he whipped up his nag so that it began kicking . 
The wet snow was falling in big flakes I unbuttoned myself , regardless of it . 
The deserted street lamps gleamed sullenly in the snowy darkness like torches at a funeral . 
The snow drifted under my great coat , under my coat , under my cravat , and melted there . 
I did not wrap myself up all was lost , anyway . 
I jumped out , almost unconscious , ran up the steps and began knocking and kicking at the door . 
I felt fearfully weak , particularly in my legs and knees . 
The door was opened quickly as though they knew I was coming . 
As a fact , Simonov had warned them that perhaps another gentleman would arrive , and this was a place in which one had to give notice and to observe certain precautions . 
It was one of those millinery establishments which were abolished by the police a good time ago . 
By day it really was a shop but at night , if one had an introduction , one might visit it for other purposes . 
I walked rapidly through the dark shop into the familiar drawing room , where there was only one candle burning , and stood still in amazement there was no one there . 
Where are they ? I asked somebody . 
But by now , of course , they had separated . 
Before me was standing a person with a stupid smile , the madam herself , who had seen me before . 
A minute later a door opened and another person came in . 
Taking no notice of anything I strode about the room , and , I believe , I talked to myself . 
everything had vanished and changed ! I looked round . 
I could not realise my condition yet . 
I began looking at her more intently and , as it were , with effort . 
I had not fully collected my thoughts . 
There was something simple and good natured in her face , but something strangely grave . 
I am sure that this stood in her way here , and no one of those fools had noticed her . 
She could not , however , have been called a beauty , though she was tall , strong looking , and well built . 
She was very simply dressed . 
Something loathsome stirred within me . 
I went straight up to her . 
I chanced to look into the glass . 
My harassed face struck me as revolting in the extreme , pale , angry , abject , with dishevelled hair . 
No matter , I am glad of it , I thought I am glad that I shall seem repulsive to her I like that . 
Somewhere behind a screen a clock began wheezing , as though oppressed by something , as though someone were strangling it . 
After an unnaturally prolonged wheezing there followed a shrill , nasty , and as it were unexpectedly rapid , chime as though someone were suddenly jumping forward . 
I woke up , though I had indeed not been asleep but lying half conscious . 
It was almost completely dark in the narrow , cramped , low pitched room , cumbered up with an enormous wardrobe and piles of cardboard boxes and all sorts of frippery and litter . 
The candle end that had been burning on the table was going out and gave a faint flicker from time to time . 
In a few minutes there would be complete darkness . 
I was not long in coming to myself everything came back to my mind at once , without an effort , as though it had been in ambush to pounce upon me again . 
And , indeed , even while I was unconscious a point seemed continually to remain in my memory unforgotten , and round it my dreams moved drearily . 
My head was full of fumes . 
Something seemed to be hovering over me , rousing me , exciting me , and making me restless . 
Misery and spite seemed surging up in me again and seeking an outlet . 
Suddenly I saw beside me two wide open eyes scrutinising me curiously and persistently . 
The look in those eyes was coldly detached , sullen , as it were utterly remote it weighed upon me . 
A grim idea came into my brain and passed all over my body , as a horrible sensation , such as one feels when one goes into a damp and mouldy cellar . 
There was something unnatural in those two eyes , beginning to look at me only now . 
Now I suddenly realised vividly the hideous idea revolting as a spider of vice , which , without love , grossly and shamelessly begins with that in which true love finds its consummation . 
What is your name ? I asked abruptly , to put an end to it . 
Liza , she answered almost in a whisper , but somehow far from graciously , and she turned her eyes away . 
What weather ! The snow . 
it's disgusting ! I said , almost to myself , putting my arm under my head despondently , and gazing at the ceiling . 
Have you always lived in Petersburg ? I asked a minute later , almost angrily , turning my head slightly towards her . 
No. Where do you come from ? From Riga , she answered reluctantly . 
Are you a German ? No , Russian . 
Have you been here long ? Where ? In this house ? A fortnight . 
She spoke more and more jerkily . 
The candle went out I could no longer distinguish her face . 
Have you a father and mother ? Yes . 
Where are they ? There . 
What are they ? Oh , nothing . 
Nothing ? Why , what class are they ? Tradespeople . 
Have you always lived with them ? Yes . 
How old are you ? Twenty . 
Why did you leave them ? Oh , for no reason . 
That answer meant Let me alone I feel sick , sad . 
God knows why I did not go away . 
I felt myself more and more sick and dreary . 
The images of the previous day began of themselves , apart from my will , flitting through my memory in confusion . 
I suddenly recalled something I had seen that morning when , full of anxious thoughts , I was hurrying to the office . 
A coffin ? Yes , in the Haymarket they were bringing it up out of a cellar . 
From a cellar ? Not from a cellar , but a basement . 
from a house of ill fame . 
It was filthy all round . 
A nasty day to be buried , I began , simply to avoid being silent . 
Nasty , in what way ? The snow , the wet . 
It makes no difference , she said suddenly , after a brief silence . 
The gravediggers must have sworn at getting drenched by the snow . 
And there must have been water in the grave . 
Why water in the grave ? she asked , with a sort of curiosity , but speaking even more harshly and abruptly than before . 
I suddenly began to feel provoked . 
Why , there must have been water at the bottom a foot deep . 
You can't dig a dry grave in Volkovo Cemetery . 
Why ? Why ? Why , the place is waterlogged . 
So they bury them in water . 
Do you mean to say , you don't mind how you die ? But why should I die ? she answered , as though defending herself . 
Why , some day you will die , and you will die just the same as that dead woman . 
A wench would have died in hospital . 
Some sledge drivers standing by were talking about her to some soldiers and telling them so . 
No doubt they knew her . 
They were going to meet in a pot house to drink to her memory . 
A great deal of this was my invention . 
Silence followed , profound silence . 
And is it better to die in a hospital ? Isn't it just the same ? Besides , why should I die ? she added irritably . 
If not now , a little later . 
Why a little later ? Why , indeed ? Now you are young , pretty , fresh , you fetch a high price . 
But after another year of this life you will be very different you will go off . 
In a year ? Anyway , in a year you will be worth less , I continued malignantly . 
That will be if you were lucky . 
But it would be much worse if you got some disease , consumption , say . 
and caught a chill , or something or other . 
It's not easy to get over an illness in your way of life . 
If you catch anything you may not get rid of it . 
And so you would die . 
Oh , well , then I shall die , she answered , quite vindictively , and she made a quick movement . 
Sorry for whom ? Sorry for life . 
Have you been engaged to be married ? Eh ? What's that to you ? Oh , I am not cross examining you . 
Why are you so cross ? Of course you may have had your own troubles . 
What is it to me ? It's simply that I felt sorry . 
Sorry for whom ? Sorry for you . 
No need , she whispered hardly audibly , and again made a faint movement . 
That incensed me at once . 
What ! I was so gentle with her , and she . 
Why , do you think that you are on the right path ? I don't think anything . 
That's what's wrong , that you don't think . 
Realise it while there is still time . 
You are still young , good looking you might love , be married , be happy . 
Not all married women are happy , she snapped out in the rude abrupt tone she had used at first . 
Not all , of course , but anyway it is much better than the life here . 
Besides , with love one can live even without happiness . 
Even in sorrow life is sweet life is sweet , however one lives . 
But here what is there but . 
foulness ? Phew ! I turned away with disgust I was no longer reasoning coldly . 
I began to feel myself what I was saying and warmed to the subject . 
I was already longing to expound the cherished ideas I had brooded over in my corner . 
Something suddenly flared up in me . 
An object had appeared before me . 
Never mind my being here , I am not an example for you . 
I am , perhaps , worse than you are . 
I was drunk when I came here , though , I hastened , however , to say in self defence . 
Besides , a man is no example for a woman . 
I may degrade and defile myself , but I am not anyone's slave . 
I come and go , and that's an end of it . 
I shake it off , and I am a different man . 
But you are a slave from the start . 
Yes , a slave ! You give up everything , your whole freedom . 
If you want to break your chains afterwards , you won't be able to you will be more and more fast in the snares . 
It is an accursed bondage . 
They will see to that . 
It's like selling your soul to the devil . 
Come , tell me , what is there good here ? Here you and I . 
Is that loving ? Is that how one human being should meet another ? It's hideous , that's what it is ! Yes ! she assented sharply and hurriedly . 
I was positively astounded by the promptitude of this Yes . 
So the same thought may have been straying through her mind when she was staring at me just before . 
So she , too , was capable of certain thoughts ? Damn it all , this was interesting , this was a point of likeness ! I thought , almost rubbing my hands . 
And indeed it's easy to turn a young soul like that ! It was the exercise of my power that attracted me most . 
She turned her head nearer to me , and it seemed to me in the darkness that she propped herself on her arm . 
Perhaps she was scrutinising me . 
How I regretted that I could not see her eyes . 
I heard her deep breathing . 
Why have you come here ? I asked her , with a note of authority already in my voice . 
Oh , I don't know . 
But how nice it would be to be living in your father's house ! It's warm and free you have a home of your own . 
But what if it's worse than this ? I must take the right tone , flashed through my mind . 
I may not get far with sentimentality . 
But it was only a momentary thought . 
I swear she really did interest me . 
Besides , I was exhausted and moody . 
And cunning so easily goes hand in hand with feeling . 
Who denies it ! I hastened to answer . 
I am convinced that someone has wronged you , and that you are more sinned against than sinning . 
Of course , I know nothing of your story , but it's not likely a girl like you has come here of her own inclination . 
A girl like me ? she whispered , hardly audibly but I heard it . 
Damn it all , I was flattering her . 
But perhaps it was a good thing . 
See , Liza , I will tell you about myself . 
If I had had a home from childhood , I shouldn't be what I am now . 
However bad it may be at home , anyway they are your father and mother , and not enemies , strangers . 
Once a year at least , they'll show their love of you . 
Anyway , you know you are at home . 
I grew up without a home and perhaps that's why I've turned so . 
Perhaps she doesn't understand , I thought , and , indeed , it is absurd it's moralising . 
I must confess I blushed . 
Why so ? she asked . 
Ah ! so she was listening ! I don't know , Liza . 
When she danced at parties he used to stand for five hours at a stretch , gazing at her . 
Fathers always love their daughters more than the mothers do . 
Some girls live happily at home ! And I believe I should never let my daughters marry . 
What next ? she said , with a faint smile . 
I should be jealous , I really should . 
To think that she should kiss anyone else ! That she should love a stranger more than her father ! It's painful to imagine it . 
Of course , that's all nonsense , of course every father would be reasonable at last . 
But I believe before I should let her marry , I should worry myself to death I should find fault with all her suitors . 
But I should end by letting her marry whom she herself loved . 
The one whom the daughter loves always seems the worst to the father , you know . 
So many family troubles come from that . 
Some are glad to sell their daughters , rather than marrying them honourably . 
There are such families , it's true , but I am not speaking of them . 
You must have seen wickedness in your own family , if you talk like that . 
Truly , you must have been unlucky . 
that sort of thing mostly comes about through poverty . 
And is it any better with the gentry ? Even among the poor , honest people who live happily ? H'm . 
Another thing , Liza , man is fond of reckoning up his troubles , but does not count his joys . 
If he counted them up as he ought , he would see that every lot has enough happiness provided for it . 
If you marry YOU WILL FIND OUT FOR YOURSELF . 
But think of the first years of married life with one you love what happiness , what happiness there sometimes is in it ! And indeed it's the ordinary thing . 
In those early days even quarrels with one's husband end happily . 
Some women get up quarrels with their husbands just because they love them . 
Indeed , I knew a woman like that she seemed to say that because she loved him , she would torment him and make him feel it . 
You know that you may torment a man on purpose through love . 
And all in the house rejoice in the sight of you , and you are happy and gay and peaceful and honourable . 
Then there are some women who are jealous . 
And the woman knows herself it's wrong , and her heart fails her and she suffers , but she loves it's all through love . 
And no one , no one should know what passes between husband and wife if they love one another . 
And whatever quarrels there may be between them they ought not to call in their own mother to judge between them and tell tales of one another . 
They are their own judges . 
Love is a holy mystery and ought to be hidden from all other eyes , whatever happens . 
That makes it holier and better . 
They respect one another more , and much is built on respect . 
Then there will be the union of souls , they will have everything in common , there will be no secrets between them . 
And once they have children , the most difficult times will seem to them happy , so long as there is love and courage . 
So you see this is a great duty . 
How can it fail to draw the father and mother nearer ? People say it's a trial to have children . 
Who says that ? It is heavenly happiness ! Are you fond of little children , Liza ? I am awfully fond of them . 
And while it sucks it clutches at your bosom with its little hand , plays . 
What if she were suddenly to burst out laughing , what should I do then ? That idea drove me to fury . 
Towards the end of my speech I really was excited , and now my vanity was somehow wounded . 
Why are you she began and stopped . 
What ? I asked , with tender curiosity . 
What ? Why , you . 
speak somehow like a book , she said , and again there was a note of irony in her voice . 
That remark sent a pang to my heart . 
It was not what I was expecting . 
I ought to have guessed the truth from the timidity with which she had repeatedly approached her sarcasm , only bringing herself to utter it at last with an effort . 
But I did not guess , and an evil feeling took possession of me . 
Wait a bit ! I thought . 
Is it possible , is it possible that you do not feel sick at being here yourself ? Evidently habit does wonders ! God knows what habit can do with anyone . 
I should not dare to have an impure thought about you . 
But here , you see , I know that I have only to whistle and you have to come with me whether you like it or not . 
I don't consult your wishes , but you mine . 
The lowest labourer hires himself as a workman , but he doesn't make a slave of himself altogether besides , he knows that he will be free again presently . 
Very likely he does beat you , too . 
Ask him , if you have got one , whether he will marry you . 
He will laugh in your face , if he doesn't spit in it or give you a blow though maybe he is not worth a bad halfpenny himself . 
And that will soon happen , don't rely upon your youth all that flies by express train here , you know . 
You will be kicked out . 
They have become utterly vile , and nothing on earth is viler , more loathsome , and more insulting than their abuse . 
One would think that the heart alone would be worn out with tears . 
And you won't dare to say a word , not half a word when they drive you away from here you will go away as though you were to blame . 
You will change to another house , then to a third , then somewhere else , till you come down at last to the Haymarket . 
There you will be beaten at every turn that is good manners there , the visitors don't know how to be friendly without beating you . 
You don't believe that it is so hateful there ? Go and look for yourself some time , you can see with your own eyes . 
Once , one New Year's Day , I saw a woman at a door . 
They had turned her out as a joke , to give her a taste of the frost because she had been crying so much , and they shut the door behind her . 
The patient goes on hoping till the last minute and says he is all right . 
He deludes himself And that just suits your madam . 
Don't doubt it , that's how it is you have sold your soul , and what is more you owe money , so you daren't say a word . 
But when you are dying , all will abandon you , all will turn away from you , for then there will be nothing to get from you . 
What's more , they will reproach you for cumbering the place , for being so long over dying . 
That's true , I have heard such things said myself . 
Shorten the cord , you rascal . 
'It's all right as it is . 
'All right , is it ? Why , she's on her side ! She was a fellow creature , after all ! But , never mind , throw the earth on her . 
And they won't care to waste much time quarrelling over you . 
They will scatter the wet blue clay as quick as they can and go off to the tavern . 
and there your memory on earth will end other women have children to go to their graves , fathers , husbands . 
And I worked myself up to such a pitch that I began to have a lump in my throat myself , and . 
and all at once I stopped , sat up in dismay and , bending over apprehensively , began to listen with a beating heart . 
I had reason to be troubled . 
It was the exercise of my skill that carried me away yet it was not merely sport . 
I knew I was speaking stiffly , artificially , even bookishly , in fact , I could not speak except like a book . 
But that did not trouble me I knew , I felt that I should be understood and that this very bookishness might be an assistance . 
But now , having attained my effect , I was suddenly panic stricken . 
Never before had I witnessed such despair ! She was lying on her face , thrusting her face into the pillow and clutching it in both hands . 
Her heart was being torn . 
Her youthful body was shuddering all over as though in convulsions . 
, or , thrusting her fingers into her dishevelled hair , seemed rigid with the effort of restraint , holding her breath and clenching her teeth . 
It was dark though I tried my best I could not finish dressing quickly . 
Suddenly I felt a box of matches and a candlestick with a whole candle in it . 
Liza , my dear , I was wrong . 
forgive me , my dear , I began , but she squeezed my hand in her fingers so tightly that I felt I was saying the wrong thing and stopped . 
This is my address , Liza , come to me . 
I will come , she answered resolutely , her head still bowed . 
But now I am going , good bye . 
As she did this she gave another sickly smile , blushed and looked at me strangely . 
I felt wretched I was in haste to get away to disappear . 
Wait a minute , she said suddenly , in the passage just at the doorway , stopping me with her hand on my overcoat . 
She put down the candle in hot haste and ran off evidently she had thought of something or wanted to show me something . 
In fact , it was not the same face , not the same look as the evening before sullen , mistrustful and obstinate . 
Her eyes now were imploring , soft , and at the same time trustful , caressing , timid . 
The expression with which children look at people they are very fond of , of whom they are asking a favour . 
Her eyes were a light hazel , they were lovely eyes , full of life , and capable of expressing love as well as sullen hatred . 
Making no explanation , as though I , as a sort of higher being , must understand everything without explanations , she held out a piece of paper to me . 
Her whole face was positively beaming at that instant with naive , almost childish , triumph . 
It was a letter to her from a medical student or someone of that sort a very high flown and flowery , but extremely respectful , love letter . 
I don't recall the words now , but I remember well that through the high flown phrases there was apparent a genuine feeling , which cannot be feigned . 
When I had finished reading it I met her glowing , questioning , and childishly impatient eyes fixed upon me . 
She fastened her eyes upon my face and waited impatiently for what I should say . 
and she hadn't made up her mind to stay and was certainly going away as soon as she had paid her debt . 
and at that party there had been the student who had danced with her all the evening . 
he had sent her that letter through the friend with whom she had gone to the party . 
well , that was all . 
She dropped her shining eyes with a sort of bashfulness as she finished . 
No doubt that letter was destined to lie in her box and lead to nothing . 
I said nothing , pressed her hand and went out . 
I so longed to get away . 
I walked all the way home , in spite of the fact that the melting snow was still falling in heavy flakes . 
I was exhausted , shattered , in bewilderment . 
But behind the bewilderment the truth was already gleaming . 
VIII It was some time , however , before I consented to recognise that truth . 
To think of having such an attack of womanish hysteria , pah ! I concluded . 
And what did I thrust my address upon her for ? What if she comes ? Let her come , though it doesn't matter . 
And I was so taken up that morning that I actually forgot all about Liza . 
First of all I had at once to repay what I had borrowed the day before from Simonov . 
I resolved on a desperate measure to borrow fifteen roubles straight off from Anton Antonitch . 
As luck would have it he was in the best of humours that morning , and gave it to me at once , on the first asking . 
And it went off all right all this was uttered very easily , unconstrainedly and complacently . 
On reaching home I promptly wrote to Simonov . 
To this hour I am lost in admiration when I recall the truly gentlemanly , good humoured , candid tone of my letter . 
With tact and good breeding , and , above all , entirely without superfluous words , I blamed myself for all that had happened . 
I added that I would have called upon all of them myself , but my head ached , and besides I had not the face to . 
On a young hero's past no censure is cast ! There is actually an aristocratic playfulness about it ! I thought admiringly , as I read over the letter . 
And , indeed , perhaps , everything was due to the wine yesterday . 
No , it was not the wine . 
I did not drink anything at all between five and six when I was waiting for them . 
I had lied to Simonov I had lied shamelessly and indeed I wasn't ashamed now . 
Hang it all though , the great thing was that I was rid of it . 
I put six roubles in the letter , sealed it up , and asked Apollon to take it to Simonov . 
When he learned that there was money in the letter , Apollon became more respectful and agreed to take it . 
Towards evening I went out for a walk . 
My head was still aching and giddy after yesterday . 
But as evening came on and the twilight grew denser , my impressions and , following them , my thoughts , grew more and more different and confused . 
Something was not dead within me , in the depths of my heart and conscience it would not die , and it showed itself in acute depression . 
For the most part I jostled my way through the most crowded business streets , along Myeshtchansky Street , along Sadovy Street and in Yusupov Garden . 
What I liked was just that cheap bustle , that bare prose . 
I returned home completely upset , it was just as though some crime were lying on my conscience . 
The thought that Liza was coming worried me continually . 
It seemed queer to me that of all my recollections of yesterday this tormented me , as it were , especially , as it were , quite separately . 
Everything else I had quite succeeded in forgetting by the evening I dismissed it all and was still perfectly satisfied with my letter to Simonov . 
But on this point I was not satisfied at all . 
It was as though I were worried only by Liza . 
Yesterday I seemed such a hero to her , while now , h'm ! It's horrid , though , that I have let myself go so , the room looks like a beggar's . 
And I brought myself to go out to dinner in such a suit ! And my American leather sofa with the stuffing sticking out . 
And my dressing gown , which will not cover me , such tatters , and she will see all this and she will see Apollon . 
That beast is certain to insult her . 
He will fasten upon her in order to be rude to me . 
When I reached that thought I fired up all at once . 
Why dishonest ? How dishonest ? I was speaking sincerely last night . 
I remember there was real feeling in me , too . 
What I wanted was to excite an honourable feeling in her . 
Her crying was a good thing , it will have a good effect . 
Yet I could not feel at ease . 
Next day I was ready again to look upon it all as nonsense , due to over excited nerves , and , above all , as EXAGGERATED . 
I was always conscious of that weak point of mine , and sometimes very much afraid of it . 
I exaggerate everything , that is where I go wrong , I repeated to myself every hour . 
But , however , Liza will very likely come all the same , was the refrain with which all my reflections ended . 
But at this point I stopped short , and in great confusion , indeed . 
had sufficed to turn a whole human life at once according to my will . 
But this thought stirred such wrath in me that I believed I should have crushed that damned Liza if she had chanced to be near me at the time . 
I develop her , educate her . 
Finally , I notice that she loves me , loves me passionately . 
I am amazed , but . 
because it would be tyranny . 
, but now , now you are mine , you are my creation , you are pure , you are good , you are my noble wife . 
'Into my house come bold and free , Its rightful mistress there to be' . 
Then we begin living together , go abroad and so on , and so on . 
In fact , in the end it seemed vulgar to me myself , and I began putting out my tongue at myself . 
Besides , they won't let her out , the hussy ! I thought . 
He drove me beyond all patience ! He was the bane of my life , the curse laid upon me by Providence . 
We had been squabbling continually for years , and I hated him . 
My God , how I hated him ! I believe I had never hated anyone in my life as I hated him , especially at some moments . 
He was an elderly , dignified man , who worked part of his time as a tailor . 
But for some unknown reason he despised me beyond all measure , and looked down upon me insufferably . 
Though , indeed , he looked down upon everyone . 
He was a pedant , to the most extreme point , the greatest pedant I had met on earth , and with that had a vanity only befitting Alexander of Macedon . 
He consented to do nothing for me for seven roubles a month . 
Many sins should be forgiven me for what I suffered from him . 
My hatred reached such a point that sometimes his very step almost threw me into convulsions . 
What I loathed particularly was his lisp . 
He spoke in a slow , measured tone , with his hands behind his back and his eyes fixed on the ground . 
He maddened me particularly when he read aloud the psalms to himself behind his partition . 
It is interesting that that is how he has ended he hires himself out to read the psalms over the dead , and at the same time he kills rats and makes blacking . 
But at that time I could not get rid of him , it was as though he were chemically combined with my existence . 
Besides , nothing would have induced him to consent to leave me . 
To be two or three days behind with his wages , for instance , was impossible . 
He would have made such a fuss , I should not have known where to hide my head . 
But angry as I was , yet he got the better of me . 
I could not hold out for four days . 
He would begin by fixing upon me an exceedingly severe stare , keeping it up for several minutes at a time , particularly on meeting me or seeing me out of the house . 
If I held out and pretended not to notice these stares , he would , still in silence , proceed to further tortures . 
Two hours later he would come out again and again present himself before me in the same way . 
It had happened that in my fury I did not even ask him what he wanted , but simply raised my head sharply and imperiously and began staring back at him . 
So we stared at one another for two minutes at last he turned with deliberation and dignity and went back again for two hours . 
This time the usual staring manoeuvres had scarcely begun when I lost my temper and flew at him in a fury . 
I was irritated beyond endurance apart from him . 
Stay , I cried , in a frenzy , as he was slowly and silently turning , with one hand behind his back , to go to his room . 
Stay ! Come back , come back , I tell you ! and I must have bawled so unnaturally , that he turned round and even looked at me with some wonder . 
However , he persisted in saying nothing , and that infuriated me . 
How dare you come and look at me like that without being sent for ? Answer ! After looking at me calmly for half a minute , he began turning round again . 
Stay ! I roared , running up to him , don't stir ! There . 
That's not what I am asking you about , you torturer ! I shouted , turning crimson with anger . 
He would have turned round again without a word , but I seized him . 
Listen , I shouted to him . 
here's the seven roubles complete , but you are not going to have it , you . 
have it until you come respectfully with bowed head to beg my pardon . 
Do you hear ? That cannot be , he answered , with the most unnatural self confidence . 
Why , besides , you called me a 'torturer , for which I can summon you at the police station at any time for insulting behaviour . 
If it had not been for Liza nothing of this would have happened , I decided inwardly . 
Then , after waiting a minute , I went myself behind his screen with a dignified and solemn air , though my heart was beating slowly and violently . 
Apollon , I said quietly and emphatically , though I was breathless , go at once without a minute's delay and fetch the police officer . 
He had meanwhile settled himself at his table , put on his spectacles and taken up some sewing . 
But , hearing my order , he burst into a guffaw . 
At once , go this minute ! Go on , or else you can't imagine what will happen . 
You are certainly out of your mind , he observed , without even raising his head , lisping as deliberately as ever and threading his needle . 
Whoever heard of a man sending for the police against himself ? And as for being frightened you are upsetting yourself about nothing , for nothing will come of it . 
Go ! I shrieked , clutching him by the shoulder . 
I felt I should strike him in a minute . 
There , clutching at my hair with both hands , I leaned my head against the wall and stood motionless in that position . 
Two minutes later I heard Apollon's deliberate footsteps . 
There is some woman asking for you , he said , looking at me with peculiar severity . 
Then he stood aside and let in Liza . 
He would not go away , but stared at us sarcastically . 
Go away , go away , I commanded in desperation . 
At that moment my clock began whirring and wheezing and struck seven . 
IX Into my house come bold and free , Its rightful mistress there to be . 
After standing over us for a couple of minutes Apollon went away , but that did not make me more at ease . 
What made it worse was that she , too , was overwhelmed with confusion , more so , in fact , than I should have expected . 
At the sight of me , of course . 
Sit down , I said mechanically , moving a chair up to the table , and I sat down on the sofa . 
She obediently sat down at once and gazed at me open eyed , evidently expecting something from me at once . 
This naivete of expectation drove me to fury , but I restrained myself . 
She ought to have tried not to notice , as though everything had been as usual , while instead of that , she . 
and I dimly felt that I should make her pay dearly for ALL THIS . 
You have found me in a strange position , Liza , I began , stammering and knowing that this was the wrong way to begin . 
No , no , don't imagine anything , I cried , seeing that she had suddenly flushed . 
I am not ashamed of my poverty . 
On the contrary , I look with pride on my poverty . 
I am poor but honourable . 
One can be poor and honourable , I muttered . 
would you like tea ? . 
No , she was beginning . 
I leapt up and ran to Apollon . 
I had to get out of the room somehow . 
If you won't go , you'll make me a miserable man ! You don't know what this woman is . 
This is everything ! You may be imagining something . 
But you don't know what that woman is ! . 
I waited before him for three minutes with my arms crossed A LA NAPOLEON . 
My temples were moist with sweat . 
I was pale , I felt it . 
But , thank God , he must have been moved to pity , looking at me . 
She looked at me uneasily . 
For some minutes we were silent . 
I will kill him , I shouted suddenly , striking the table with my fist so that the ink spurted out of the inkstand . 
What are you saying ! she cried , starting . 
You don't know , Liza , what that torturer is to me . 
He has gone now to fetch some rusks he . 
And suddenly I burst into tears . 
It was an hysterical attack . 
How ashamed I felt in the midst of my sobs but still I could not restrain them . 
What is the matter ? What is wrong ? she cried , fussing about me . 
But I was , what is called , PUTTING IT ON , to save appearances , though the attack was a genuine one . 
She gave me water , looking at me in bewilderment . 
At that moment Apollon brought in the tea . 
It suddenly seemed to me that this commonplace , prosaic tea was horribly undignified and paltry after all that had happened , and I blushed crimson . 
Liza looked at Apollon with positive alarm . 
He went out without a glance at either of us . 
Liza , do you despise me ? I asked , looking at her fixedly , trembling with impatience to know what she was thinking . 
She was confused , and did not know what to answer . 
Drink your tea , I said to her angrily . 
I was angry with myself , but , of course , it was she who would have to pay for it . 
A horrible spite against her suddenly surged up in my heart I believe I could have killed her . 
To revenge myself on her I swore inwardly not to say a word to her all the time . 
She is the cause of it all , I thought . 
Our silence lasted for five minutes . 
The tea stood on the table we did not touch it . 
I had got to the point of purposely refraining from beginning in order to embarrass her further it was awkward for her to begin alone . 
Several times she glanced at me with mournful perplexity . 
My heart positively ached with pity for her tactless and unnecessary straightforwardness . 
But something hideous at once stifled all compassion in me it even provoked me to greater venom . 
I did not care what happened . 
Perhaps I am in your way , she began timidly , hardly audibly , and was getting up . 
But as soon as I saw this first impulse of wounded dignity I positively trembled with spite , and at once burst out . 
Why have you come to me , tell me that , please ? I began , gasping for breath and regardless of logical connection in my words . 
I longed to have it all out at once , at one burst I did not even trouble how to begin . 
Why have you come ? Answer , answer , I cried , hardly knowing what I was doing . 
I'll tell you , my good girl , why you have come . 
You've come because I talked sentimental stuff to you then . 
So now you are soft as butter and longing for fine sentiments again . 
So you may as well know that I was laughing at you then . 
And I am laughing at you now . 
Why are you shuddering ? Yes , I was laughing at you ! I had been insulted just before , at dinner , by the fellows who came that evening before me . 
I had been humiliated , so I wanted to humiliate I had been treated like a rag , so I wanted to show my power . 
That's what it was , and you imagined I had come there on purpose to save you . 
And so , indeed , she did . 
She turned white as a handkerchief , tried to say something , and her lips worked painfully but she sank on a chair as though she had been felled by an axe . 
And all the time afterwards she listened to me with her lips parted and her eyes wide open , shuddering with awful terror . 
The cynicism , the cynicism of my words overwhelmed her . 
Save you ! I went on , jumping up from my chair and running up and down the room before her . 
Save you from what ? But perhaps I am worse than you myself . 
Afterwards , before I got home , I was cursing and swearing at you because of that address , I hated you already because of the lies I had told you . 
Because I only like playing with words , only dreaming , but , do you know , what I really want is that you should all go to hell . 
That is what I want . 
I want peace yes , I'd sell the whole world for a farthing , straight off , so long as I was left in peace . 
Did you know that , or not ? Well , anyway , I know that I am a blackguard , a scoundrel , an egoist , a sluggard . 
Here I have been shuddering for the last three days at the thought of your coming . 
Surely by now you must realise that I shall never forgive you for having found me in this wretched dressing gown , just as I was flying at Apollon like a spiteful cur . 
Why , it's not once in a lifetime a man speaks out like this , and then it is in hysterics ! . 
What happened was this Liza , insulted and crushed by me , understood a great deal more than I imagined . 
She understood from all this what a woman understands first of all , if she feels genuine love , that is , that I was myself unhappy . 
The frightened and wounded expression on her face was followed first by a look of sorrowful perplexity . 
her whole face worked convulsively . 
At this point there was a revulsion in my heart too . 
Then she suddenly rushed to me , threw her arms round me and burst into tears . 
I , too , could not restrain myself , and sobbed as I never had before . 
She came close to me , put her arms round me and stayed motionless in that position . 
Why was I ashamed ? I don't know , but I was ashamed . 
And all this came into my mind during the minutes I was lying on my face on the sofa . 
My God ! surely I was not envious of her then . 
I don't know , to this day I cannot decide , and at the time , of course , I was still less able to understand what I was feeling than now . 
I cannot get on without domineering and tyrannising over someone , but . 
there is no explaining anything by reasoning and so it is useless to reason . 
I conquered myself , however , and raised my head I had to do so sooner or later . 
and I am convinced to this day that it was just because I was ashamed to look at her that another feeling was suddenly kindled and flamed up in my heart . 
a feeling of mastery and possession . 
My eyes gleamed with passion , and I gripped her hands tightly . 
How I hated her and how I was drawn to her at that minute ! The one feeling intensified the other . 
It was almost like an act of vengeance . 
At first there was a look of amazement , even of terror on her face , but only for one instant . 
She warmly and rapturously embraced me . 
She was sitting on the ground with her head leaning against the bed , and must have been crying . 
But she did not go away , and that irritated me . 
This time she understood it all . 
I had insulted her finally , but . 
there's no need to describe it . 
Why is it strange ? In the first place , by then I was incapable of love , for I repeat , with me loving meant tyrannising and showing my moral superiority . 
Even in my underground dreams I did not imagine love except as a struggle . 
I began it always with hatred and ended it with moral subjugation , and afterwards I never knew what to do with the subjugated object . 
I did not hate her so much , however , when I was running about the room and peeping through the crack in the screen . 
I was only insufferably oppressed by her being here . 
I wanted her to disappear . 
I wanted peace , to be left alone in my underground world . 
Real life oppressed me with its novelty so much that I could hardly breathe . 
But several minutes passed and she still remained , without stirring , as though she were unconscious . 
I had the shamelessness to tap softly at the screen as though to remind her . 
She started , sprang up , and flew to seek her kerchief , her hat , her coat , as though making her escape from me . 
Two minutes later she came from behind the screen and looked with heavy eyes at me . 
I gave a spiteful grin , which was forced , however , to KEEP UP APPEARANCES , and I turned away from her eyes . 
Good bye , she said , going towards the door . 
I ran up to her , seized her hand , opened it , thrust something in it and closed it again . 
Then I turned at once and dashed away in haste to the other corner of the room to avoid seeing , anyway . 
I did mean a moment since to tell a lie to write that I did this accidentally , not knowing what I was doing through foolishness , through losing my head . 
But I don't want to lie , and so I will say straight out that I opened her hand and put the money in it . 
It came into my head to do this while I was running up and down the room and she was sitting behind the screen . 
But this I can say for certain though I did that cruel thing purposely , it was not an impulse from the heart , but came from my evil brain . 
I opened the door in the passage and began listening . 
Liza ! Liza ! I cried on the stairs , but in a low voice , not boldly . 
There was no answer , but I fancied I heard her footsteps , lower down on the stairs . 
Liza ! I cried , more loudly . 
But at that minute I heard the stiff outer glass door open heavily with a creak and slam violently the sound echoed up the stairs . 
I went back to my room in hesitation . 
I stood still at the table , beside the chair on which she had sat and looked aimlessly before me . 
A minute passed , suddenly I started straight before me on the table I saw . 
In short , I saw a crumpled blue five rouble note , the one I had thrust into her hand a minute before . 
It was the same note it could be no other , there was no other in the flat . 
So she had managed to fling it from her hand on the table at the moment when I had dashed into the further corner . 
Well ! I might have expected that she would do that . 
I could not endure it . 
A minute later I flew like a madman to dress , flinging on what I could at random and ran headlong after her . 
She could not have got two hundred paces away when I ran out into the street . 
It was a still night and the snow was coming down in masses and falling almost perpendicularly , covering the pavement and the empty street as though with a pillow . 
There was no one in the street , no sound was to be heard . 
The street lamps gave a disconsolate and useless glimmer . 
I ran two hundred paces to the cross roads and stopped short . 
But what for ? I thought . 
And will it not be better ? I mused fantastically , afterwards at home , stifling the living pang of my heart with fantastic dreams . 
perhaps , too , by forgiveness . 
Will all that make things easier for her though ? . 
Even now , so many years later , all this is somehow a very evil memory . 
I have many evil memories now , but . 
We are so divorced from it that we feel at once a sort of loathing for real life , and so cannot bear to be reminded of it . 
Why , we have come almost to looking upon real life as an effort , almost as hard work , and we are all privately agreed that it is better in books . 
And why do we fuss and fume sometimes ? Why are we perverse and ask for something else ? We don't know what ourselves . 
It would be the worse for us if our petulant prayers were answered . 
yes , I assure you . 
we should be begging to be under control again at once . 
I know that you will very likely be angry with me for that , and will begin shouting and stamping . 
So that perhaps , after all , there is more life in me than in you . 
We shall not know what to join on to , what to cling to , what to love and what to hate , what to respect and what to despise . 
We are stillborn , and for generations past have been begotten , not by living fathers , and that suits us better and better . 
We are developing a taste for it . 
Soon we shall contrive to be born somehow from an idea . 
But enough I don't want to write more from Underground . 
The notes of this paradoxalist do not end here , however . 
He could not refrain from going on with them , but it seems to us that we may stop here . 
