Intentions , by Oscar Wilde Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Intentions Contents The Decay of Lying Pen , Pencil , and Poison The Critic as Artist The Truth of Masks THE DECAY OF LYING A DIALOGUE . 
Scene the Library of a country house in Nottinghamshire . 
My dear Vivian , don't coop yourself up all day in the library . 
It is a perfectly lovely afternoon . 
There is a mist upon the woods , like the purple bloom upon a plum . 
Let us go and lie on the grass and smoke cigarettes and enjoy Nature . 
Enjoy Nature ! I am glad to say that I have entirely lost that faculty . 
My own experience is that the more we study Art , the less we care for Nature . 
What Art really reveals to us is Nature's lack of design , her curious crudities , her extraordinary monotony , her absolutely unfinished condition . 
Nature has good intentions , of course , but , as Aristotle once said , she cannot carry them out . 
When I look at a landscape I cannot help seeing all its defects . 
It is fortunate for us , however , that Nature is so imperfect , as otherwise we should have no art at all . 
Art is our spirited protest , our gallant attempt to teach Nature her proper place . 
As for the infinite variety of Nature , that is a pure myth . 
It is not to be found in Nature herself . 
It resides in the imagination , or fancy , or cultivated blindness of the man who looks at her . 
Well , you need not look at the landscape . 
You can lie on the grass and smoke and talk . 
But Nature is so uncomfortable . 
Grass is hard and lumpy and damp , and full of dreadful black insects . 
Why , even Morris's poorest workman could make you a more comfortable seat than the whole of Nature can . 
Nature pales before the furniture of 'the street which from Oxford has borrowed its name , as the poet you love so much once vilely phrased it . 
If Nature had been comfortable , mankind would never have invented architecture , and I prefer houses to the open air . 
In a house we all feel of the proper proportions . 
Everything is subordinated to us , fashioned for our use and our pleasure . 
Egotism itself , which is so necessary to a proper sense of human dignity , is entirely the result of indoor life . 
Out of doors one becomes abstract and impersonal . 
One's individuality absolutely leaves one . 
And then Nature is so indifferent , so unappreciative . 
Nothing is more evident than that Nature hates Mind . 
Thinking is the most unhealthy thing in the world , and people die of it just as they die of any other disease . 
Fortunately , in England at any rate , thought is not catching . 
Our splendid physique as a people is entirely due to our national stupidity . 
In the meantime , you had better go back to your wearisome uncomfortable Nature , and leave me to correct my proofs . 
Writing an article ! That is not very consistent after what you have just said . 
Not I. Like Emerson , I write over the door of my library the word 'Whim . 
Besides , my article is really a most salutary and valuable warning . 
If it is attended to , there may be a new Renaissance of Art . 
What is the subject ? VIVIAN . 
I intend to call it 'The Decay of Lying A Protest . 
Lying ! I should have thought that our politicians kept up that habit . 
I assure you that they do not . 
They never rise beyond the level of misrepresentation , and actually condescend to prove , to discuss , to argue . 
If a man is sufficiently unimaginative to produce evidence in support of a lie , he might just as well speak the truth at once . 
No , the politicians won't do . 
Something may , perhaps , be urged on behalf of the Bar . 
The mantle of the Sophist has fallen on its members . 
Their feigned ardours and unreal rhetoric are delightful . 
But they are briefed by the prosaic , and are not ashamed to appeal to precedent . 
In spite of their endeavours , the truth will out . 
Newspapers , even , have degenerated . 
They may now be absolutely relied upon . 
One feels it as one wades through their columns . 
It is always the unreadable that occurs . 
I am afraid that there is not much to be said in favour of either the lawyer or the journalist . 
Besides , what I am pleading for is Lying in art . 
Shall I read you what I have written ? It might do you a great deal of good . 
Certainly , if you give me a cigarette . 
By the way , what magazine do you intend it for ? VIVIAN . 
I think I told you that the elect had revived it . 
Whom do you mean by 'the elect' ? VIVIAN . 
Oh , The Tired Hedonists , of course . 
It is a club to which I belong . 
We are supposed to wear faded roses in our button holes when we meet , and to have a sort of cult for Domitian . 
I am afraid you are not eligible . 
You are too fond of simple pleasures . 
I should be black balled on the ground of animal spirits , I suppose ? VIVIAN . 
Besides , you are a little too old . 
We don't admit anybody who is of the usual age . 
Well , I should fancy you are all a good deal bored with each other . 
This is one of the objects of the club . 
Now , if you promise not to interrupt too often , I will read you my article . 
You will find me all attention . 
THE DECAY OF LYING A PROTEST . 
The ancient historians gave us delightful fiction in the form of fact the modem novelist presents us with dull facts under the guise of fiction . 
The Blue Book is rapidly becoming his ideal both for method and manner . 
He has his tedious DOCUMENT HUMAIN , his miserable little COIN DE LA CREATION , into which he peers with his microscope . 
He is to be found at the Librairie Nationale , or at the British Museum , shamelessly reading up his subject . 
'The lose that results to literature in general from this false ideal of our time can hardly be overestimated . 
People have a careless way of talking about a born liar , just as they talk about a born poet . 
But in both cases they are wrong . 
Lying and poetry are arts arts , as Pinto saw , not unconnected with each other and they require the most careful study , the most disinterested devotion . 
Here , as elsewhere , practice must , precede perfection . 
But , as a rule , he comes to nothing . 
He either falls into careless habits of accuracy CYRIL . 
My dear fellow ! VIVIAN . 
Please don't interrupt in the middle of a sentence . 
'He either falls into careless habits of accuracy , or takes to frequenting the society of the aged and the well informed . 
This is no isolated instance that we are giving . 
'Even Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson , that delightful master of delicate and fanciful prose , is tainted with this modern vice , for we know positively no other name for it . 
Jekyll reads dangerously like an experiment out of the LANCET . 
Nor are our other novelists much better . 
Mr. Hall Caine , it is true , aims at the grandiose , but then he writes at the top of his voice . 
He is so loud that one cannot bear what he says . 
Mr. James Payn is an adept in the art of concealing what is not worth finding . 
He hunts down the obvious with the enthusiasm of a short sighted detective . 
As one turns over the pages , the suspense of the author becomes almost unbearable . 
The horses of Mr. William Black's phaeton do not soar towards the sun . 
They merely frighten the sky at evening into violent chromolithographic effects . 
On seeing them approach , the peasants take refuge in dialect . 
Mrs. Oliphant prattles pleasantly about curates , lawn tennis parties , domesticity , and other wearisome things . 
Mr. Marion Crawford has immolated himself upon the altar of local colour . 
He is like the lady in the French comedy who keeps talking about le beau ciel d'Italie . 
Besides , he has fallen into the bad habit of uttering moral platitudes . 
He is always telling us that to be good is to be good , and that to be bad is to be wicked . 
At times he is almost edifying . 
ROBERT ELSMERE is of course a masterpiece a masterpiece of the genre ennuyeux , the one form of literature that the English people seems thoroughly to enjoy . 
Indeed it is only in England that such a book could be produced . 
England is the home of lost ideas . 
'In France , though nothing so deliberately tedious as ROBERT ELSMERE has been produced , things are not much better . 
He writes lurid little tragedies in which everybody is ridiculous bitter comedies at which one cannot laugh for very tears . 
And how well he succeeds ! He is not without power . 
Indeed at times , as in GERMINAL , there is something almost epic in his work . 
But his work is entirely wrong from beginning to end , and wrong not on the ground of morals , but on the ground of art . 
From any ethical standpoint it is just what it should be . 
The author is perfectly truthful , and describes things exactly as they happen . 
What more can any moralist desire ? We have no sympathy at all with the moral indignation of our time against M. Zola . 
It is simply the indignation of Tartuffe on being exposed . 
But from the standpoint of art , what can be said in favour of the author of L'ASSOMMOIR , NANA and POT BOUILLE ? Nothing . 
Mr. Ruskin once described the characters in George Eliot's novels as being like the sweepings of a Pentonville omnibus , but M. Zola's characters are much worse . 
They have their dreary vices , and their drearier virtues . 
The record of their lives is absolutely without interest . 
Who cares what happens to them ? In literature we require distinction , charm , beauty and imaginative power . 
We don't want to be harrowed and disgusted with an account of the doings of the lower orders . 
He has wit , a light touch and an amusing style . 
But he has lately committed literary suicide . 
To us they seem to have suddenly lost all their vitality , all the few qualities they ever possessed . 
The justification of a character in a novel is not that other persons are what they are , but that the author is what he is . 
Otherwise the novel is not a work of art . 
In point of fact what is interesting about people in good society and M. Bourget rarely moves out of the Faubourg St . 
Germain , except to come to London , is the mask that each one of them wears , not the reality that lies behind the mask . 
It is a humiliating confession , but we are all of us made out of the same stuff . 
In Falstaff there is something of Hamlet , in Hamlet there is not a little of Falstaff . 
The fat knight has his moods of melancholy , and the young prince his moments of coarse humour . 
Where we differ from each other is purely in accidentals in dress , manner , tone of voice , religious opinions , personal appearance , tricks of habit and the like . 
The more one analyses people , the more all reasons for analysis disappear . 
Sooner or later one comes to that dreadful universal thing called human nature . 
However , my dear Cyril , I will not detain you any further just here . 
I quite admit that modern novels have many good points . 
All I insist on is that , as a class , they are quite unreadable . 
That is certainly a very grave qualification , but I must say that I think you are rather unfair in some of your strictures . 
I like THE DEEMSTER , and THE DAUGHTER OF HETH , and LE DISCIPLE , and MR . 
ISAACS , and as for ROBERT ELSMERE , I am quite devoted to it . 
Not that I can look upon it as a serious work . 
As a statement of the problems that confront the earnest Christian it is ridiculous and antiquated . 
It is simply Arnold's LITERATURE AND DOGMA with the literature left out . 
It is as much behind the age as Paley's EVIDENCES , or Colenso's method of Biblical exegesis . 
On the other hand , it contains several clever caricatures , and a heap of delightful quotations , and Green's philosophy very pleasantly sugars the somewhat bitter pill of the author's fiction . 
I also cannot help expressing my surprise that you have said nothing about the two novelists whom you are always reading , Balzac and George Meredith . 
Surely they are realists , both of them ? VIVIAN . 
Ah ! Meredith ! Who can define him ? His style is chaos illumined by flashes of lightning . 
As a writer he has mastered everything except language as a novelist he can do everything , except tell a story as an artist he is everything except articulate . 
But whatever he is , he is not a realist . 
Or rather I would say that he is a child of realism who is not on speaking terms with his father . 
By deliberate choice he has made himself a romanticist . 
By its means he has planted round his garden a hedge full of thorns , and red with wonderful roses . 
As for Balzac , he was a most remarkable combination of the artistic temperament with the scientific spirit . 
The latter he bequeathed to his disciples . 
The former was entirely his own . 
The difference between such a book as M. Zola's L'ASSOMMOIR and Balzac's ILLUSIONS PERDUES is the difference between unimaginative realism and imaginative reality . 
'All Balzac's characters said Baudelaire , 'are gifted with the same ardour of life that animated himself . 
All his fictions are as deeply coloured as dreams . 
Each mind is a weapon loaded to the muzzle with will . 
The very scullions have genius . 
A steady course of Balzac reduces our living friends to shadows , and our acquaintances to the shadows of shades . 
His characters have a kind of fervent fiery coloured existence . 
They dominate us , and defy scepticism . 
One of the greatest tragedies of my life is the death of Lucien de Rubempre . 
It is a grief from which I have never been able completely to rid myself . 
It haunts me in my moments of pleasure . 
I remember it when I laugh . 
But Balzac is no more a realist than Holbein was . 
He created life , he did not copy it . 
Do you object to modernity of form , then ? VIVIAN . 
It is a huge price to pay for a very poor result . 
Pure modernity of form is always somewhat vulgarising . 
It cannot help being so . 
The public imagine that , because they are interested in their immediate surroundings , Art should be interested in them also , and should take them as her subject matter . 
But the mere fact that they are interested in these things makes them unsuitable subjects for Art . 
The only beautiful things , as somebody once said , are the things that do not concern us . 
To art's subject matter we should be more or less indifferent . 
We should , at any rate , have no preferences , no prejudices , no partisan feeling of any kind . 
It is exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us that her sorrows are such an admirable motive for a tragedy . 
I do not know anything in the whole history of literature sadder than the artistic career of Charles Reade . 
Believe me , my dear Cyril , modernity of form and modernity of subject matter are entirely and absolutely wrong . 
Certainly we are a degraded race , and have sold our birthright for a mess of facts . 
And this is perhaps the best rough test of what is literature and what is not . 
If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again , there is no use reading it at all . 
But what do you say about the return to Life and Nature ? This is the panacea that is always being recommended to us . 
I will read you what I say on that subject . 
But , alas ! we are mistaken in our amiable and well meaning efforts . 
Nature is always behind the age . 
And as for Life , she is the solvent that breaks up Art , the enemy that lays waste her house . 
What do you mean by saying that Nature is always behind the age ? VIVIAN . 
Well , perhaps that is rather cryptic . 
What I mean is this . 
If we take Nature to mean natural simple instinct as opposed to self conscious culture , the work produced under this influence is always old fashioned , antiquated , and out of date . 
One touch of Nature may make the whole world kin , but two touches of Nature will destroy any work of Art . 
If , on the other hand , we regard Nature as the collection of phenomena external to man , people only discover in her what they bring to her . 
She has no suggestions of her own . 
Wordsworth went to the lakes , but he was never a lake poet . 
He found in stones the sermons he had already hidden there . 
He went moralising about the district , but his good work was produced when he returned , not to Nature but to poetry . 
Poetry gave him 'Laodamia , and the fine sonnets , and the great Ode , such as it is . 
Nature gave him 'Martha Ray' and 'Peter Bell , and the address to Mr. Wilkinson's spade . 
I think that view might be questioned . 
You would agree with that , I fancy . 
However , proceed with your article . 
'Art begins with abstract decoration , with purely imaginative and pleasurable work dealing with what is unreal and non existent . 
This is the first stage . 
Then Life becomes fascinated with this new wonder , and asks to be admitted into the charmed circle . 
The third stage is when Life gets the upper hand , and drives Art out into the wilderness . 
That is the true decadence , and it is from this that we are now suffering . 
'Take the case of the English drama . 
At first in the hands of the monks Dramatic Art was abstract , decorative and mythological . 
She clothed her children in strange raiment and gave them masks , and at her bidding the antique world rose from its marble tomb . 
A new Caesar stalked through the streets of risen Rome , and with purple sail and flute led oars another Cleopatra passed up the river to Antioch . 
Old myth and legend and dream took shape and substance . 
History was entirely re written , and there was hardly one of the dramatists who did not recognise that the object of Art is not simple truth but complex beauty . 
In this they were perfectly right . 
Art itself is really a form of exaggeration and selection , which is the very spirit of art , is nothing more than an intensified mode of over emphasis . 
'But Life soon shattered the perfection of the form . 
Even in Shakespeare we can see the beginning of the end . 
It shows itself by the gradual breaking up of the blank verse in the later plays , by the predominance given to prose , and by the over importance assigned to characterisation . 
Shakespeare is not by any means a flawless artist . 
He is too fond of going directly to life , and borrowing life's natural utterance . 
He forgets that when Art surrenders her imaginative medium she surrenders everything . 
However , we need not linger any longer over Shakespeare's realism . 
THE TEMPEST is the most perfect of palinodes . 
As the inevitable result of this substitution of an imitative for a creative medium , this surrender of an imaginative form , we have the modern English melodrama . 
And yet how wearisome the plays are ! They do not succeed in producing even that impression of reality at which they aim , and which is their only reason for existing . 
As a method , realism is a complete failure . 
'What is true about the drama and the novel is no less true about those arts that we call the decorative arts . 
But wherever we have returned to Life and Nature , our work has always become vulgar , common and uninteresting . 
Modern tapestry , with its aerial effects , its elaborate perspective , its broad expanses of waste sky , its faithful and laborious realism , has no beauty whatsoever . 
The pictorial glass of Germany is absolutely detestable . 
We are beginning to weave possible carpets in England , but only because we have returned to the method and spirit of the East . 
A cultured Mahomedan once remarked to us , You Christians are so occupied in misinterpreting the fourth commandment that you have never thought of making an artistic application of the second . 
He was perfectly right , and the whole truth of the matter is this The proper school to learn art in is not Life but Art . 
And now let me read you a passage which seems to me to settle the question very completely . 
'It was not always thus . 
Now , everything is changed . 
Facts are not merely finding a footing place in history , but they are usurping the domain of Fancy , and have invaded the kingdom of Romance . 
Their chilling touch is over everything . 
My dear boy ! VIVIAN . 
I assure you it is the case , and the amusing part of the whole thing is that the story of the cherry tree is an absolute myth . 
However , you must not think that I am too despondent about the artistic future either of America or of our own country . 
Listen to this 'That some change will take place before this century has drawn to its close we have no doubt whatsoever . 
Whatever was his name or race , he certainly was the true founder of social intercourse . 
For the aim of the liar is simply to charm , to delight , to give pleasure . 
'Nor will he be welcomed by society alone . 
Ahem ! Another cigarette , please . 
But let me get to the end of the passage 'Art finds her own perfection within , and not outside of , herself . 
She is not to be judged by any external standard of resemblance . 
She is a veil , rather than a mirror . 
She has flowers that no forests know of , birds that no woodland possesses . 
She makes and unmakes many worlds , and can draw the moon from heaven with a scarlet thread . 
Hers are the forms more real than living man , and hers the great archetypes of which things that have existence are but unfinished copies . 
Nature has , in her eyes , no laws , no uniformity . 
She can work miracles at her will , and when she calls monsters from the deep they come . 
She can bid the almond tree blossom in winter , and send the snow upon the ripe cornfield . 
At her word the frost lays its silver finger on the burning mouth of June , and the winged lions creep out from the hollows of the Lydian hills . 
The dryads peer from the thicket as she passes by , and the brown fauns smile strangely at her when she comes near them . 
She has hawk faced gods that worship her , and the centaurs gallop at her side . 
Is that the end ? VIVIAN . 
No. There is one more passage , but it is purely practical . 
It simply suggests some methods by which we could revive this lost art of Lying . 
Well , before you read it to me , I should like to ask you a question . 
You think it would reduce genius to the position of a cracked looking glass . 
But you don't mean to say that you seriously believe that Life imitates Art , that Life in fact is the mirror , and Art the reality ? VIVIAN . 
Paradox though it may seem and paradoxes are always dangerous things it is none the less true that Life imitates art far more than Art imitates life . 
And it has always been so . 
A great artist invents a type , and Life tries to copy it , to reproduce it in a popular form , like an enterprising publisher . 
Neither Holbein nor Vandyck found in England what they have given us . 
They brought their types with them , and Life with her keen imitative faculty set herself to supply the master with models . 
Hence came their objection to realism . 
They disliked it on purely social grounds . 
They felt that it inevitably makes people ugly , and they were perfectly right . 
We try to improve the conditions of the race by means of good air , free sunlight , wholesome water , and hideous bare buildings for the better housing of the lower orders . 
But these things merely produce health , they do not produce beauty . 
As it is with the visible arts , so it is with literature . 
But this is a mistake . 
The imagination is essentially creative , and always seeks for a new form . 
The boy burglar is simply the inevitable result of life's imitative instinct . 
He is Fact , occupied as Fact usually is , with trying to reproduce Fiction , and what we see in him is repeated on an extended scale throughout the whole of life . 
Schopenhauer has analysed the pessimism that characterises modern thought , but Hamlet invented it . 
The world has become sad because a puppet was once melancholy . 
He was invented by Tourgenieff , and completed by Dostoieffski . 
Robespierre came out of the pages of Rousseau as surely as the People's Palace rose out of the DEBRIS of a novel . 
It does not copy it , but moulds it to its purpose . 
The nineteenth century , as we know it , is largely an invention of Balzac . 
Our Luciens de Rubempre , our Rastignacs , and De Marsays made their first appearance on the stage of the COMEDIE HUMAINE . 
We are merely carrying out , with footnotes and unnecessary additions , the whim or fancy or creative vision of a great novelist . 
I once asked a lady , who knew Thackeray intimately , whether he had had any model for Becky Sharp . 
Ultimately she came to grief , disappeared to the Continent , and used to be occasionally seen at Monte Carlo and other gambling places . 
The noble gentleman from whom the same great sentimentalist drew Colonel Newcome died , a few months after THE NEWCOMER had reached a fourth edition , with the word 'Adsum' on his lips . 
Feeling rather nervous he began to walk extremely fast , when suddenly out of an archway ran a child right between his legs . 
It fell on the pavement , he tripped over it , and trampled upon it . 
They surrounded him , and asked him his name . 
He was just about to give it when he suddenly remembered the opening incident in Mr. Stevenson's story . 
The humanitarian crowd were induced to go away on his giving them a small sum of money , and as soon as the coast was clear he left . 
As he passed out , the name on the brass door plate of the surgery caught his eye . 
At least it should have been . 
Here the imitation , as far as it went , was of course accidental . 
In the following case the imitation was self conscious . 
In the year , just after I had left Oxford , I met at a reception at the house of one of the Foreign Ministers a woman of very curious exotic beauty . 
We became great friends , and were constantly together . 
And yet what interested me most in her was not her beauty , but her character , her entire vagueness of character . 
She seemed to have no personality at all , but simply the possibility of many types . 
Sometimes she would give herself up entirely to art , turn her drawing room into a studio , and spend two or three days a week at picture galleries or museums . 
Then she would take to attending race meetings , wear the most horsey clothes , and talk about nothing but betting . 
She abandoned religion for mesmerism , mesmerism for politics , and politics for the melodramatic excitements of philanthropy . 
In fact , she was a kind of Proteus , and as much a failure in all her transformations as was that wondrous sea god when Odysseus laid hold of him . 
One day a serial began in one of the French magazines . 
At that time I used to read serial stories , and I well remember the shock of surprise I felt when I came to the description of the heroine . 
She was so like my friend that I brought her the magazine , and she recognised herself in it immediately , and seemed fascinated by the resemblance . 
I should tell you , by the way , that the story was translated from some dead Russian writer , so that the author had not taken his type from my friend . 
I don't know why I added that , but I remember I had a sort of dread over me that she might do the same thing . 
Before my letter had reached her , she had run away with a man who deserted her in six months . 
I saw her in in Paris , where she was living with her mother , and I asked her whether the story had had anything to do with her action . 
When they appeared , it seemed to her that she was compelled to reproduce them in life , and she did so . 
It was a most clear example of this imitative instinct of which I was speaking , and an extremely tragic one . 
However , I do not wish to dwell any further upon individual instances . 
Personal experience is a most vicious and limited circle . 
Life holds the mirror up to Art , and either reproduces some strange type imagined by painter or sculptor , or realises in fact what has been dreamed in fiction . 
Life seizes on them and uses them , even if they be to her own hurt . 
Young men have committed suicide because Rolla did so , have died by their own hand because by his own hand Werther died . 
Think of what we owe to the imitation of Christ , of what we owe to the imitation of Caesar . 
The theory is certainly a very curious one , but to make it complete you must show that Nature , no less than Life , is an imitation of Art . 
Are you prepared to prove that ? VIVIAN . 
My dear fellow , I am prepared to prove anything . 
Nature follows the landscape painter , then , and takes her effects from him ? VIVIAN . 
Consider the matter from a scientific or a metaphysical point of view , and you will find that I am right . 
For what is Nature ? Nature is no great mother who has borne us . 
It is in our brain that she quickens to life . 
Things are because we see them , and what we see , and how we see it , depends on the Arts that have influenced us . 
To look at a thing is very different from seeing a thing . 
One does not see anything until one sees its beauty . 
Then , and then only , does it come into existence . 
At present , people see fogs , not because there are fogs , but because poets and painters have taught them the mysterious loveliness of such effects . 
There may have been fogs for centuries in London . 
I dare say there were . 
But no one saw them , and so we do not know anything about them . 
They did not exist till Art had invented them . 
Now , it must be admitted , fogs are carried to excess . 
They have become the mere mannerism of a clique , and the exaggerated realism of their method gives dull people bronchitis . 
Where the cultured catch an effect , the uncultured catch cold . 
And so , let us be humane , and invite Art to turn her wonderful eyes elsewhere . 
She has done so already , indeed . 
Where she used to give us Corots and Daubignys , she gives us now exquisite Monets and entrancing Pissaros . 
Indeed there are moments , rare , it is true , but still to be observed from time to time , when Nature becomes absolutely modern . 
Of course she is not always to be relied upon . 
The fact is that she is in this unfortunate position . 
Art creates an incomparable and unique effect , and , having done so , passes on to other things . 
Nature , upon the other hand , forgetting that imitation can be made the sincerest form of insult , keeps on repeating this effect until we all become absolutely wearied of it . 
Nobody of any real culture , for instance , ever talks nowadays about the beauty of a sunset . 
Sunsets are quite old fashioned . 
They belong to the time when Turner was the last note in art . 
To admire them is a distinct sign of provincialism of temperament . 
Upon the other hand they go on . 
Yesterday evening Mrs. Arundel insisted on my going to the window , and looking at the glorious sky , as she called it . 
Of course I had to look at it . 
She is one of those absurdly pretty Philistines to whom one can deny nothing . 
And what was it ? It was simply a very second rate Turner , a Turner of a bad period , with all the painter's worst faults exaggerated and over emphasised . 
Of course , I am quite ready to admit that Life very often commits the same error . 
She produces her false Renes and her sham Vautrins , just as Nature gives us , on one day a doubtful Cuyp , and on another a more than questionable Rousseau . 
Still , Nature irritates one more when she does things of that kind . 
It seems so stupid , so obvious , so unnecessary . 
A false Vautrin might be delightful . 
A doubtful Cuyp is unbearable . 
However , I don't want to be too hard on Nature . 
That she imitates Art , I don't think even her worst enemy would deny now . 
It is the one thing that keeps her in touch with civilised man . 
But have I proved my theory to your satisfaction ? CYRIL . 
You have proved it to my dissatisfaction , which is better . 
Certainly not ! Art never expresses anything but itself . 
But it is not so . 
She develops purely on her own lines . 
She is not symbolic of any age . 
It is the ages that are her symbols . 
But it was not so . 
The vices of Tiberius could not destroy that supreme civilisation , any more than the virtues of the Antonines could save it . 
It fell for other , for less interesting reasons . 
If we wish to understand a nation by means of its art , let us look at its architecture or its music . 
I quite agree with you there . 
The spirit of an age may be best expressed in the abstract ideal arts , for the spirit itself is abstract and ideal . 
Upon the other hand , for the visible aspect of an age , for its look , as the phrase goes , we must of course go to the arts of imitation . 
After all , what the imitative arts really give us are merely the various styles of particular artists , or of certain schools of artists . 
They were probably very ordinary looking people , with nothing grotesque , or remarkable , or fantastic in their appearance . 
No great artist ever sees things as they really are . 
If he did , he would cease to be an artist . 
Take an example from our own day . 
I know that you are fond of Japanese things . 
The Japanese people are the deliberate self conscious creation of certain individual artists . 
In fact the whole of Japan is a pure invention . 
There is no such country , there are no such people . 
One of our most charming painters went recently to the Land of the Chrysanthemum in the foolish hope of seeing the Japanese . 
All he saw , all he had the chance of painting , were a few lanterns and some fans . 
He was quite unable to discover the inhabitants , as his delightful exhibition at Messrs . 
Dowdeswell's Gallery showed only too well . 
He did not know that the Japanese people are , as I have said , simply a mode of style , an exquisite fancy of art . 
And so , if you desire to see a Japanese effect , you will not behave like a tourist and go to Tokio . 
Or , to return again to the past , take as another instance the ancient Greeks . 
But read an authority , like Aristophanes , for instance . 
The fact is that we look back on the ages entirely through the medium of art , and art , very fortunately , has never once told us the truth . 
But modern portraits by English painters , what of them ? Surely they are like the people they pretend to represent ? VIVIAN . 
They are so like them that a hundred years from now no one will believe in them . 
The only portraits in which one believes are portraits where there is very little of the sitter , and a very great deal of the artist . 
Holbein's drawings of the men and women of his time impress us with a sense of their absolute reality . 
It is style that makes us believe in a thing nothing but style . 
Most of our modern portrait painters are doomed to absolute oblivion . 
They never paint what they see . 
They paint what the public sees , and the public never sees anything . 
Well , after that I think I should like to hear the end of your article . 
Whether it will do any good I really cannot say . 
Ours is certainly the dullest and most prosaic century possible . 
Why , even Sleep has played us false , and has closed up the gates of ivory , and opened the gates of horn . 
There is not even a fine nightmare among them . 
They are commonplace , sordid and tedious . 
But in the English Church a man succeeds , not through his capacity for belief , but through his capacity for disbelief . 
Ours is the only Church where the sceptic stands at the altar , and where St . 
Thomas is regarded as the ideal apostle . 
The growth of common sense in the English Church is a thing very much to be regretted . 
It is really a degrading concession to a low form of realism . 
It is silly , too . 
It springs from an entire ignorance of psychology . 
Man can believe the impossible , but man can never believe the improbable . 
Much of course may be done , in the way of educating the public , by amateurs in the domestic circle , at literary lunches , and at afternoon teas . 
But this is merely the light and graceful side of lying , such as was probably heard at Cretan dinner parties . 
There are many other forms . 
Later on , what at first had been merely a natural instinct was elevated into a self conscious science . 
Elaborate rules were laid down for the guidance of mankind , and an important school of literature grew up round the subject . 
It is a mode of lying for which all good mothers have peculiar capabilities , but it is capable of still further development , and has been sadly overlooked by the School Board . 
Lying for the sake of a monthly salary is of course well known in Fleet Street , and the profession of a political leader writer is not without its advantages . 
But it is said to be a somewhat dull occupation , and it certainly does not lead to much beyond a kind of ostentatious obscurity . 
The very aspect of the world will change to our startled eyes . 
Dragons will wander about the waste places , and the phoenix will soar from her nest of fire into the air . 
We shall lay our hands upon the basilisk , and see the jewel in the toad's head . 
But before this comes to pass we must cultivate the lost art of Lying . 
Then we must entirely cultivate it at once . 
But in order to avoid making any error I want you to tell me briefly the doctrines of the new aesthetics . 
Briefly , then , they are these . 
Art never expresses anything but itself . 
It has an independent life , just as Thought has , and develops purely on its own lines . 
It is not necessarily realistic in an age of realism , nor spiritual in an age of faith . 
At other times it entirely anticipates its age , and produces in one century work that it takes another century to understand , to appreciate and to enjoy . 
In no case does it reproduce its age . 
To pass from the art of a time to the time itself is the great mistake that all historians commit . 
The second doctrine is this . 
All bad art comes from returning to Life and Nature , and elevating them into ideals . 
Life and Nature may sometimes be used as part of Art's rough material , but before they are of any real service to art they must be translated into artistic conventions . 
The moment Art surrenders its imaginative medium it surrenders everything . 
As a method Realism is a complete failure , and the two things that every artist should avoid are modernity of form and modernity of subject matter . 
To us , who live in the nineteenth century , any century is a suitable subject for art except our own . 
The only beautiful things are the things that do not concern us . 
It is , to have the pleasure of quoting myself , exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us that her sorrows are so suitable a motive for a tragedy . 
Besides , it is only the modern that ever becomes old fashioned . 
M. Zola sits down to give us a picture of the Second Empire . 
Who cares for the Second Empire now ? It is out of date . 
Life goes faster than Realism , but Romanticism is always in front of Life . 
The third doctrine is that Life imitates Art far more than Art imitates Life . 
It is a theory that has never been put forward before , but it is extremely fruitful , and throws an entirely new light upon the history of Art . 
It follows , as a corollary from this , that external Nature also imitates Art . 
The only effects that she can show us are effects that we have already seen through poetry , or in paintings . 
This is the secret of Nature's charm , as well as the explanation of Nature's weakness . 
The final revelation is that Lying , the telling of beautiful untrue things , is the proper aim of Art . 
But of this I think I have spoken at sufficient length . 
And now let us go out on the terrace , where 'droops the milk white peacock like a ghost , while the evening star 'washes the dusk with silver . 
At twilight nature becomes a wonderfully suggestive effect , and is not without loveliness , though perhaps its chief use is to illustrate quotations from the poets . 
Come ! We have talked long enough . 
As a rule this must necessarily be so . 
That very concentration of vision and intensity of purpose which is the characteristic of the artistic temperament is in itself a mode of limitation . 
To those who are preoccupied with the beauty of form nothing else seems of much importance . 
Yet there are many exceptions to this rule . 
Rubens served as ambassador , and Goethe as state councillor , and Milton as Latin secretary to Cromwell . 
This remarkable man , so powerful with 'pen , pencil and poison , as a great poet of our own day has finely said of him , was born at Chiswick , in . 
His father was the son of a distinguished solicitor of Gray's Inn and Hatton Garden . 
His mother was the daughter of the celebrated Dr . 
He went to school at Charles Burney's academy at Hammersmith . 
Mr. Burney was the son of the historian of music , and the near kinsman of the artistic lad who was destined to turn out his most remarkable pupil . 
Indeed , painting was the first art that fascinated him . 
It was not till much later that he sought to find expression by pen or poison . 
Before this , however , he seems to have been carried away by boyish dreams of the romance and chivalry of a soldier's life , and to have become a young guardsman . 
But the reckless dissipated life of his companions failed to satisfy the refined artistic temperament of one who was made for other things . 
In a short time he wearied of the service . 
But Art was not the only cause of the change . 
'The writings of Wordsworth , he goes on to say , 'did much towards calming the confusing whirl necessarily incident to sudden mutations . 
I wept over them tears of happiness and gratitude . 
He accordingly left the army , with its rough barrack life and coarse mess room tittle tattle , and returned to Linden House , full of this new born enthusiasm for culture . 
A severe illness , in which , to use his own words , he was 'broken like a vessel of clay , prostrated him for a time . 
His delicately strung organisation , however indifferent it might have been to inflicting pain on others , was itself most keenly sensitive to pain . 
But he was young only twenty five years of age and he soon passed out of the 'dead black waters , as he called them , into the larger air of humanistic culture . 
As he was recovering from the illness that had led him almost to the gates of death , he conceived the idea of taking up literature as an art . 
It is impossible not to feel that in this passage we have the utterance of a man who had a true passion for letters . 
'To see and hear and write brave things , this was his aim . 
JANUS WEATHERCOCK , EGOMET BONMOT , and VAN VINKVOOMS , were some of the grotesque masks under which he choose to hide his seriousness or to reveal his levity . 
A mask tells us more than a face . 
These disguises intensified his personality . 
In an incredibly short time he seems to have made his mark . 
Charles Lamb speaks of 'kind , light hearted Wainewright , whose prose is 'capital . 
We hear of him entertaining Macready , John Forster , Maginn , Talfourd , Sir Wentworth Dilke , the poet John Clare , and others , at A PETIT DINER . 
There was something in him of Balzac's Lucien de Rubempre . 
At times he reminds us of Julien Sorel . 
De Quincey saw him once . 
It was at a dinner at Charles Lamb's . 
But then it is only the Philistine who seeks to estimate a personality by the vulgar test of production . 
This young dandy sought to be somebody , rather than to do something . 
He recognised that Life itself is in art , and has its modes of style no less than the arts that seek to express it . 
Nor is his work without interest . 
We hear of William Blake stopping in the Royal Academy before one of his pictures and pronouncing it to be 'very fine . 
His essays are prefiguring of much that has since been realised . 
He seems to have anticipated some of those accidents of modern culture that are regarded by many as true essentials . 
He writes about La Gioconda , and early French poets and the Italian Renaissance . 
He loves Greek gems , and Persian carpets , and Elizabethan translations of CUPID AND PSYCHE , and the HYPNEROTOMACHIA , and book binding and early editions , and wide margined proofs . 
He is keenly sensitive to the value of beautiful surroundings , and never wearies of describing to us the rooms in which he lived , or would have liked to live . 
There is of course much in his descriptions , and his suggestions for decoration , that shows that he did not entirely free himself from the false taste of his time . 
In this artistic perception he was perfectly right . 
All beautiful things belong to the same age . 
Here is a bit of Florentine majolica , and here a rude lamp from some old Roman tomb . 
Some dark antique bronzes contrast with the pale gleam of two noble CHRISTI CRUCIFIXI , one carved in ivory , the other moulded in wax . 
He was always a great amateur of engravings , and gives some very useful suggestions as to the best means of forming a collection . 
As an art critic he concerned himself primarily with the complex impressions produced by a work of art , and certainly the first step in aesthetic criticism is to realise one's own impressions . 
He certainly could not , and he frankly acknowledges how difficult it is to form any fair estimate of contemporary work . 
But , on the whole , his taste was good and sound . 
The qualities that he sought for in a picture were composition , beauty and dignity of line , richness of colour , and imaginative power . 
Upon the other hand , he was not a doctrinaire . 
'I hold that no work of art can be tried otherwise than by laws deduced from itself whether or not it be consistent with itself is the question . 
This is one of his excellent aphorisms . 
However , as I pointed out before , he never feels quite at his ease in his criticisms of contemporary work . 
'The present , he says , 'is about as agreeable a confusion to me as Ariosto on the first perusal . 
I must look at them through Time's telescope . 
Elia complains that to him the merit of a MS . 
poem is uncertain print , as he excellently says , settles it . 
Fifty years' toning does the same thing to a picture . 
What is Gothic touched him very little , but classical art and the art of the Renaissance were always dear to him . 
The highest praise that we can give to him is that he tried to revive style as a conscious tradition . 
But he saw that no amount of art lectures or art congresses , or 'plans for advancing the fine arts , will ever produce this result . 
The people , he says very wisely , and in the true spirit of Toynbee Hall , must always have 'the best models constantly before their eyes . 
As is to be expected from one who was a painter , he is often extremely technical in his art criticisms . 
His description of Lancret's REPAS ITALIEN , in which 'a dark haired girl , amorous of mischief , lies on the daisy powdered grass , is in some respects very charming . 
Here is his account of 'The Crucifixion , by Rembrandt . 
The horses snuff the coming terror , and become unmanageable through fear . 
The deadly vinegar is elevated to Him . 
His head sinks , and the sacred corpse 'swings senseless of the cross . 
A sheet of vermilion flame shoots sheer through the air and vanishes the rocks of Carmel and Lebanon cleave asunder the sea rolls on high from the sands its black weltering waves . 
Earth yawns , and the graves give up their dwellers . 
The dead and the living are mingled together in unnatural conjunction and hurry through the holy city . 
New prodigies await them there . 
Rembrandt never painted this sketch , and he was quite right . 
It would have lost nearly all its charms in losing that perplexing veil of indistinctness which affords such ample range wherein the doubting imagination may speculate . 
At present it is like a thing in another world . 
A dark gulf is betwixt us . 
It is not tangible by the body . 
We can only approach it in the spirit . 
We have nearly the same images in both . 
The golden bees are silent on the thymy Hymettus and the knelling horn of Aurora's love no more shall scatter away the cold twilight on the top of Hymettus . 
, rendered more uneven by many foot tripping roots and stumps of trees stocked untimely by the axe , which are again throwing out light green shoots . 
From between the closely neighboured boles astonished nymphs press forward with loud cries And deerskin vested satyrs , crowned with ivy twists , advance And put strange pity in their horned countenance . 
Laelaps lies beneath , and shows by his panting the rapid pace of death . 
Above and more remote than the Ephidryad , another female , rending her locks , appears among the vine festooned pillars of an unshorn grove . 
Were this description carefully re written , it would be quite admirable . 
The conception of making a prose poem out of paint is excellent . 
Much of the best modern literature springs from the same aim . 
In a very ugly and sensible age , the arts borrow , not from life , but from each other . 
His sympathies , too , were wonderfully varied . 
In everything connected with the stage , for instance , he was always extremely interested , and strongly upheld the necessity for archaeological accuracy in costume and scene painting . 
In literature , again , like Lord Beaconsfield on a famous occasion , he was 'on the side of the angels . 
He was one of the first to admire Keats and Shelley 'the tremulously sensitive and poetical Shelley , as he calls him . 
His admiration for Wordsworth was sincere and profound . 
He thoroughly appreciated William Blake . 
One of the best copies of the 'Songs of Innocence and Experience' that is now in existence was wrought specially for him . 
He loved Alain Chartier , and Ronsard , and the Elizabethan dramatists , and Chaucer and Chapman , and Petrarch . 
And to him all the arts were one . 
How wittily would he mistake your meaning , and put in a conceit most seasonably out of season . 
His talk without affectation was compressed , like his beloved Elizabethans , even unto obscurity . 
Like grains of fine gold , his sentences would beat out into whole sheets . 
He had small mercy on spurious fame , and a caustic observation on the FASHION FOR MEN OF GENIUS was a standing dish . 
Sir Thomas Browne was a 'bosom cronie' of his so was Burton , and old Fuller . 
In his amorous vein he dallied with that peerless Duchess of many folio odour and with the heyday comedies of Beaumont and Fletcher he induced light dreams . 
One night at C 's , the above dramatic partners were the temporary subject of chat . 
, but was instantly taken up by Elia , who told him 'THAT was nothing the lyrics were the high things the lyrics ! One side of his literary career deserves especial notice . 
Modern journalism may be said to owe almost as much to him as to any man of the early part of this century . 
He was the pioneer of Asiatic prose , and delighted in pictorial epithets and pompous exaggerations . 
This being the least valuable side of his work , is the one that has had the most obvious influence . 
A publicist , nowadays , is a man who bores the community with the details of the illegalities of his private life . 
Like most artificial people , he had a great love of nature . 
The country gives them all to me . 
I thought of Wordsworth's 'Lines written in March . 
Even in later days , too , he was always reticent on the matter , and preferred to speak about 'The Excursion , and the 'Poems founded on the Affections . 
There is no doubt , however , that the poison that he used was strychnine . 
His murders , says De Quincey , were more than were ever made known judicially . 
This is no doubt so , and some of them are worthy of mention . 
His first victim was his uncle , Mr. Thomas Griffiths . 
He poisoned him in to gain possession of Linden House , a place to which he had always been very much attached . 
In the August of the next year he poisoned Mrs. Abercrombie , his wife's mother , and in the following December he poisoned the lovely Helen Abercrombie , his sister in law . 
Why he murdered Mrs. Abercrombie is not ascertained . 
It may have been for a caprice , or to quicken some hideous sense of power that was in him , or because she suspected something , or for no reason . 
The circumstances were as follows . 
On the th of December , he and his wife and child came up to London from Linden House , and took lodgings at No. Conduit Street , Regent Street . 
With them were the two sisters , Helen and Madeleine Abercrombie . 
On the evening of the th they all went to the play , and at supper that night Helen sickened . 
The next day she was extremely ill , and Dr . 
Locock , of Hanover Square , was called in to attend her . 
She lived till Monday , the th , when , after the doctor's morning visit , Mr. and Mrs. Wainewright brought her some poisoned jelly , and then went out for a walk . 
When they returned Helen Abercrombie was dead . 
She was about twenty years of age , a tall graceful girl with fair hair . 
De Quincey says that Mrs. Wainewright was not really privy to the murder . 
Let us hope that she was not . 
Sin should be solitary , and have no accomplices . 
The trial , however , did not come on for five years , when , after one disagreement , a verdict was ultimately given in the companies' favour . 
The judge on the occasion was Lord Abinger . 
EGOMET BONMOT was represented by Mr. Erle and Sir William Follet , and the Attorney General and Sir Frederick Pollock appeared for the other side . 
The plaintiff , unfortunately , was unable to be present at either of the trials . 
The refusal of the companies to give him the , pounds had placed him in a position of most painful pecuniary embarrassment . 
This difficulty was got over at the time , but shortly afterwards he thought it better to go abroad till he could come to some practical arrangement with his creditors . 
As soon as the necessary formalities had been gone through and the policy executed , he dropped some crystals of strychnine into his coffee as they sat together one evening after dinner . 
He himself did not gain any monetary advantage by doing this . 
His aim was simply to revenge himself on the first office that had refused to pay him the price of his sin . 
In he returned to England privately . 
Some strange mad fascination brought him back . 
He followed a woman whom he loved . 
It was the month of June , and he was staying at one of the hotels in Covent Garden . 
His sitting room was on the ground floor , and he prudently kept the blinds down for fear of being seen . 
He knew that this forgery had been discovered , and that by returning to England he was imperilling his life . 
Should one wonder ? It was said that the woman was very beautiful . 
Besides , she did not love him . 
It was by a mere accident that he was discovered . 
A noise in the street attracted his attention , and , in his artistic interest in modern life , he pushed aside the blind for a moment . 
Some one outside called out , 'That's Wainewright , the Bank forger . 
It was Forrester , the Bow Street runner . 
On the th of July he was brought up at the Old Bailey . 
There were five indictments against the prisoner , to all of which he pleaded not guilty , when he was arraigned before Mr. Serjeant Arabin in the course of the morning . 
He was taken back to Newgate , preparatory to his removal to the colonies . 
The sentence now passed on him was to a man of his culture a form of death . 
The permanence of personality is a very subtle metaphysical problem , and certainly the English law solves the question in an extremely rough and ready manner . 
While he was in gaol , Dickens , Macready , and Hablot Browne came across him by chance . 
They had been going over the prisons of London , searching for artistic effects , and in Newgate they suddenly caught sight of Wainewright . 
Others had more curiosity , and his cell was for some time a kind of fashionable lounge . 
Many men of letters went down to visit their old literary comrade . 
But he was no longer the kind light hearted Janus whom Charles Lamb admired . 
He seems to have grown quite cynical . 
Some of your speculations succeed , some fail . 
Mine happen to have failed , yours happen to have succeeded . 
That is the only difference , sir , between my visitor and me . 
But , sir , I will tell you one thing in which I have succeeded to the last . 
I have been determined through life to hold the position of a gentleman . 
I have always done so . 
It is the custom of this place that each of the inmates of a cell shall take his morning's turn of sweeping it out . 
From Newgate he was brought to the hulks at Portsmouth , and sent from there in the SUSAN to Van Diemen's Land along with three hundred other convicts . 
The phrase that he applies to his companions need not surprise us . 
Crime in England is rarely the result of sin . 
It is nearly always the result of starvation . 
There was probably no one on board in whom he would have found a sympathetic listener , or even a psychologically interesting nature . 
His love of art , however , never deserted him . 
At Hobart Town he started a studio , and returned to sketching and portrait painting , and his conversation and manners seem not to have lost their charm . 
Nor did he give up his habit of poisoning , and there are two cases on record in which he tried to make away with people who had offended him . 
But his hand seems to have lost its cunning . 
His request , however , was refused , and the associate of Coleridge consoled himself by making those marvellous PARADIS ARTIFICIELS whose secret is only known to the eaters of opium . 
In he died of apoplexy , his sole living companion being a cat , for which he had evinced at extraordinary affection . 
His crimes seem to have had an important effect upon his art . 
They gave a strong personality to his style , a quality that his early work certainly lacked . 
The development of Mr. Wainewright's style seems to me far more subtle and suggestive . 
One can fancy an intense personality being created out of sin . 
This strange and fascinating figure that for a few years dazzled literary London , and made so brilliant a DEBUT in life and letters , is undoubtedly a most interesting study . 
This seems to me a shallow , or at least a mistaken , view . 
The fact of a man being a poisoner is nothing against his prose . 
The domestic virtues are not the true basis of art , though they may serve as an excellent advertisement for second rate artists . 
Here and there he is distinctly vulgar in expression , and he is always lacking in the self restraint of the true artist . 
But for some of his faults we must blame the time in which he lived , and , after all , prose that Charles Lamb thought 'capital' has no small historic interest . 
That he had a sincere love of art and nature seems to me quite certain . 
There is no essential incongruity between crime and culture . 
We cannot re write the whole of history for the purpose of gratifying our moral sense of what should be . 
Of course , he is far too close to our own time for us to be able to form any purely artistic judgment about him . 
It is impossible not to feel a strong prejudice against a man who might have poisoned Lord Tennyson , or Mr. Gladstone , or the Master of Balliol . 
Nobody with the true historical sense ever dreams of blaming Nero , or scolding Tiberius , or censuring Caesar Borgia . 
These personages have become like the puppets of a play . 
They may fill us with terror , or horror , or wonder , but they do not harm us . 
They are not in immediate relation to us . 
We have nothing to fear from them . 
They have passed into the sphere of art and science , and neither art nor science knows anything of moral approval or disapproval . 
And so it may be some day with Charles Lamb's friend . 
However , Art has not forgotten him . 
To be suggestive for fiction is to be of more importance than a fact . 
THE CRITIC AS ARTIST WITH SOME REMARKS UPON THE IMPORTANCE OF DOING NOTHING A DIALOGUE . 
Part I. Persons Gilbert and Ernest . 
Scene the library of a house in Piccadilly , overlooking the Green Park . 
My dear Ernest , what are you laughing at ? ERNEST . 
At a capital story that I have just come across in this volume of Reminiscences that I have found on your table . 
What is the book ? Ah ! I see . 
I have not read it yet . 
Is it good ? ERNEST . 
Well , while you have been playing , I have been turning over the pages with some amusement , though , as a rule , I dislike modern memoirs . 
Yes the public is wonderfully tolerant . 
It forgives everything except genius . 
But I must confess that I like all memoirs . 
I like them for their form , just as much as for their matter . 
In literature mere egotism is delightful . 
It is what fascinates us in the letters of personalities so different as Cicero and Balzac , Flaubert and Berlioz , Byron and Madame de Sevigne . 
Whenever we come across it , and , strangely enough , it is rather rare , we cannot but welcome it , and do not easily forget it . 
The opinions , the character , the achievements of the man , matter very little . 
But the world will never weary of watching that troubled soul in its progress from darkness to darkness . 
Even in actual life egotism is not without its attractions . 
When people talk to us about others they are usually dull . 
There is much virtue in that If , as Touchstone would say . 
But do you seriously propose that every man should become his own Boswell ? What would become of our industrious compilers of Lives and Recollections in that case ? GILBERT . 
What has become of them ? They are the pest of the age , nothing more and nothing less . 
Every great man nowadays has his disciples , and it is always Judas who writes the biography . 
My dear fellow ! GILBERT . 
I am afraid it is true . 
Formerly we used to canonise our heroes . 
The modern method is to vulgarise them . 
Cheap editions of great books may be delightful , but cheap editions of great men are absolutely detestable . 
May I ask , Gilbert , to whom you allude ? GILBERT . 
Oh ! to all our second rate LITTERATEURS . 
But we won't talk about them . 
They are the mere body snatchers of literature . 
The dust is given to one , and the ashes to another , and the soul is out of their reach . 
And now , let me play Chopin to you , or Dvorek ? Shall I play you a fantasy by Dvorek ? He writes passionate , curiously coloured things . 
No I don't want music just at present . 
It is far too indefinite . 
Now , whatever music sounds like I am glad to say that it does not sound in the smallest degree like German . 
There are forms of patriotism that are really quite degrading . 
No Gilbert , don't play any more . 
Turn round and talk to me . 
Talk to me till the white horned day comes into the room . 
There is something in your voice that is wonderful . 
I am not in a mood for talking to night . 
How horrid of you to smile ! Where are the cigarettes ? Thanks . 
How exquisite these single daffodils are ! They seem to be made of amber and cool ivory . 
They are like Greek things of the best period . 
What was the story in the confessions of the remorseful Academician that made you laugh ? Tell it to me . 
After playing Chopin , I feel as if I had been weeping over sins that I had never committed , and mourning over tragedies that were not my own . 
Music always seems to me to produce that effect . 
It creates for one a past of which one has been ignorant , and fills one with a sense of sorrows that have been hidden from one's tears . 
And so tell me this story , Ernest . 
I want to be amused . 
Oh ! I don't know that it is of any importance . 
But I thought it a really admirable illustration of the true value of ordinary art criticism . 
And was it ? ERNEST . 
It seems to me that the imagination spreads , or should spread , a solitude around it , and works best in silence and in isolation . 
And if his work is incomprehensible , an explanation is wicked . 
I did not say that . 
Ah ! but you should have . 
Nowadays , we have so few mysteries left to us that we cannot afford to part with one of them . 
Where one had hoped that Browning was a mystic they have sought to show that he was simply inarticulate . 
Where one had fancied that he had something to conceal , they have proved that he had but little to reveal . 
But I speak merely of his incoherent work . 
Taken as a whole the man was great . 
He did not belong to the Olympians , and had all the incompleteness of the Titan . 
He did not survey , and it was but rarely that he could sing . 
His work is marred by struggle , violence and effort , and he passed not from emotion to form , but from thought to chaos . 
Still , he was great . 
It was the machine he loved , not what the machine makes . 
The method by which the fool arrives at his folly was as dear to him as the ultimate wisdom of the wise . 
So much , indeed , did the subtle mechanism of mind fascinate him that he despised language , or looked upon it as an incomplete instrument of expression . 
There are moments when he wounds us by monstrous music . 
Yet , he was great and though he turned language into ignoble clay , he made from it men and women that live . 
He is the most Shakespearian creature since Shakespeare . 
If Shakespeare could sing with myriad lips , Browning could stammer through a thousand mouths . 
Even now , as I am speaking , and speaking not against him but for him , there glides through the room the pageant of his persons . 
There , creeps Fra Lippo Lippi with his cheeks still burning from some girl's hot kiss . 
There , stands dread Saul with the lordly male sapphires gleaming in his turban . 
Mildred Tresham is there , and the Spanish monk , yellow with hatred , and Blougram , and Ben Ezra , and the Bishop of St . 
The spawn of Setebos gibbers in the corner , and Sebald , hearing Pippa pass by , looks on Ottima's haggard face , and loathes her and his own sin , and himself . 
Yes , Browning was great . 
Had he been articulate , he might have sat beside him . 
The only man who can touch the hem of his garment is George Meredith . 
Meredith is a prose Browning , and so is Browning . 
He used poetry as a medium for writing in prose . 
There is something in what you say , but there is not everything in what you say . 
In many points you are unjust . 
It is difficult not to be unjust to what one loves . 
But let us return to the particular point at issue . 
What was it that you said ? ERNEST . 
Simply this that in the best days of art there were no art critics . 
I seem to have heard that observation before , Ernest . 
It has all the vitality of error and all the tediousness of an old friend . 
Yes there is no use your tossing your head in that petulant manner . 
In the best days of art there were no art critics . 
The sculptor hewed from the marble block the great white limbed Hermes that slept within it . 
The waxers and gilders of images gave tone and texture to the statue , and the world , when it saw it , worshipped and was dumb . 
He poured the glowing bronze into the mould of sand , and the river of red metal cooled into noble curves and took the impress of the body of a god . 
With enamel or polished jewels he gave sight to the sightless eyes . 
The hyacinth like curls grew crisp beneath his graver . 
In those days the artist was free . 
He drew with silver point and charcoal upon parchment and prepared cedar . 
Upon ivory and rose coloured terracotta he painted with wax , making the wax fluid with juice of olives , and with heated irons making it firm . 
Panel and marble and linen canvas became wonderful as his brush swept across them and life seeing her own image , was still , and dared not speak . 
Men and women , with pleasure or sorrow in their faces , passed before him . 
He watched them , and their secret became his . 
Through form and colour he re created a world . 
All subtle arts belonged to him also . 
He held the gem against the revolving disk , and the amethyst became the purple couch for Adonis , and across the veined sardonyx sped Artemis with her hounds . 
He beat out the gold into roses , and strung them together for necklace or armlet . 
He beat out the gold into wreaths for the conqueror's helmet , or into palmates for the Tyrian robe , or into masks for the royal dead . 
The potter sat in his shed , and , flower like from the silent wheel , the vase rose up beneath his hands . 
He decorated the base and stem and ears with pattern of dainty olive leaf , or foliated acanthus , or curved and crested wave . 
On the curved side he would write the name of his friend . 
Greek text which cannot be reproduced tells us the story of his days . 
Again , on the rim of the wide flat cup he would draw the stag browsing , or the lion at rest , as his fancy willed it . 
And no one came to trouble the artist at his work . 
No irresponsible chatter disturbed him . 
He was not worried by opinions . 
By the Ilyssus , says Arnold somewhere , there was no Higginbotham . 
By the Ilyssus , my dear Gilbert , there were no silly art congresses bringing provincialism to the provinces and teaching the mediocrity how to mouth . 
By the Ilyssus there were no tedious magazines about art , in which the industrious prattle of what they do not understand . 
On the reed grown banks of that little stream strutted no ridiculous journalism monopolising the seat of judgment when it should be apologising in the dock . 
The Greeks had no art critics . 
Ernest , you are quite delightful , but your views are terribly unsound . 
I am afraid that you have been listening to the conversation of some one older than yourself . 
That is always a dangerous thing to do , and if you allow it to degenerate into a habit you will find it absolutely fatal to any intellectual development . 
As for modern journalism , it is not my business to defend it . 
It justifies its own existence by the great Darwinian principle of the survival of the vulgarest . 
I have merely to do with literature . 
But what is the difference between literature and journalism ? GILBERT . 
Oh ! journalism is unreadable , and literature is not read . 
But with regard to your statement that the Greeks had no art critics , I assure you that is quite absurd . 
It would be more just to say that the Greeks were a nation of art critics . 
Yes , a nation of art critics . 
But I don't wish to destroy the delightfully unreal picture that you have drawn of the relation of the Hellenic artist to the intellectual spirit of his age . 
To give an accurate description of what has never occurred is not merely the proper occupation of the historian , but the inalienable privilege of any man of parts and culture . 
Still less do I desire to talk learnedly . 
Learned conversation is either the affectation of the ignorant or the profession of the mentally unemployed . 
No let me play to you some mad scarlet thing by Dvorek . 
The pallid figures on the tapestry are smiling at us , and the heavy eyelids of my bronze Narcissus are folded in sleep . 
Don't let us discuss anything solemnly . 
I am but too conscious of the fact that we are born in an age when only the dull are treated seriously , and I live in terror of not being misunderstood . 
Don't degrade me into the position of giving you useful information . 
Education is an admirable thing , but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught . 
Through the parted curtains of the window I see the moon like a clipped piece of silver . 
Like gilded bees the stars cluster round her . 
The sky is a hard hollow sapphire . 
Let us go out into the night . 
Thought is wonderful , but adventure is more wonderful still . 
Who knows but we may meet Prince Florizel of Bohemia , and hear the fair Cuban tell us that she is not what she seems ? ERNEST . 
I insist on your discussing this matter with me . 
You have said that the Greeks were a nation of art critics . 
What art criticism have they left us ? GILBERT . 
For , after all , what is our primary debt to the Greeks ? Simply the critical spirit . 
But what are the two supreme and highest arts ? GILBERT . 
Life and Literature , life and the perfect expression of life . 
The principles of the former , as laid down by the Greeks , we may not realise in an age so marred by false ideals as our own . 
The principles of the latter , as they laid them down , are , in many cases , so subtle that we can hardly understand them . 
In this they were right , as they were right in all things . 
We , in fact , have made writing a definite mode of composition , and have treated it as a form of elaborate design . 
The Greeks , upon the other hand , regarded writing simply as a method of chronicling . 
Their test was always the spoken word in its musical and metrical relations . 
The voice was the medium , and the ear the critic . 
When Milton could no longer write he began to sing . 
Yes writing has done much harm to writers . 
We must return to the voice . 
That must be our test , and perhaps then we shall be able to appreciate some of the subtleties of Greek art criticism . 
As it now is , we cannot do so . 
Ah ! now you are flippant . 
You will not ask me to give you a survey of Greek art criticism from Plato to Plotinus . 
The night is too lovely for that , and the moon , if she heard us , would put more ashes on her face than are there already . 
But think merely of one perfect little work of aesthetic criticism , Aristotle's TREATISE ON POETRY . 
That purification and spiritualising of the nature which he calls Greek text which cannot be reproduced is , as Goethe saw , essentially aesthetic , and is not moral , as Lessing fancied . 
Concerning himself primarily with the impression that the work of art produces , Aristotle sets himself to analyse that impression , to investigate its source , to see how it is engendered . 
As a physiologist and psychologist , he knows that the health of a function resides in energy . 
To have a capacity for a passion and not to realise it , is to make oneself incomplete and limited . 
This is of course a mere outline of the book . 
But you see what a perfect piece of aesthetic criticism it is . 
Why , even the theatrical managers of travelling companies brought their dramatic critics with them when they went on tour , and paid them very handsome salaries for writing laudatory notices . 
Whatever , in fact , is modern in our life we owe to the Greeks . 
Whatever is an anachronism is due to mediaevalism . 
For the material that painter or sculptor uses is meagre in comparison with that of words . 
If the Greeks had criticised nothing but language , they would still have been the great art critics of the world . 
To know the principles of the highest art is to know the principles of all the arts . 
But I see that the moon is hiding behind a sulphur coloured cloud . 
Out of a tawny mane of drift she gleams like a lion's eye . 
She need not be afraid . 
I am tired of my expedition into the dim , dull abyss of facts . 
There is nothing left for me now but the divine Greek text which cannot be reproduced of another cigarette . 
Cigarettes have at least the charm of leaving one unsatisfied . 
I get them direct from Cairo . 
The only use of our ATTACHES is that they supply their friends with excellent tobacco . 
And as the moon has hidden herself , let us talk a little longer . 
I am quite ready to admit that I was wrong in what I said about the Greeks . 
They were , as you have pointed out , a nation of art critics . 
I acknowledge it , and I feel a little sorry for them . 
For the creative faculty is higher than the critical . 
There is really no comparison between them . 
The antithesis between them is entirely arbitrary . 
Without the critical faculty , there is no artistic creation at all , worthy of the name . 
You spoke a little while ago of that fine spirit of choice and delicate instinct of selection by which the artist realises life for us , and gives to it a momentary perfection . 
Arnold's definition of literature as a criticism of life was not very felicitous in form , but it showed how keenly he recognised the importance of the critical element in all creative work . 
I should have said that great artists work unconsciously , that they were 'wiser than they knew , as , I think , Emerson remarks somewhere . 
It is really not so , Ernest . 
All fine imaginative work is self conscious and deliberate . 
No poet sings because he must sing . 
At least , no great poet does . 
A great poet sings because he chooses to sing . 
It is so now , and it has always been so . 
But in this we are merely lending to other ages what we desire , or think we desire , for our own . 
Our historical sense is at fault . 
Believe me , Ernest , there is no fine art without self consciousness , and self consciousness and the critical spirit are one . 
I see what you mean , and there is much in it . 
Not when they became poetry . 
Not when they received a beautiful form . 
For there is no art where there is no style , and no style where there is no unity , and unity is of the individual . 
No doubt Homer had old ballads and stories to deal with , as Shakespeare had chronicles and plays and novels from which to work , but they were merely his rough material . 
He took them , and shaped them into song . 
They become his , because he made them lovely . 
They were built out of music , And so not built at all , And therefore built for ever . 
The curiously limited number of the myths seems to me to point to this conclusion . 
But we must not go off into questions of comparative mythology . 
We must keep to criticism . 
And what I want to point out is this . 
But there has never been a creative age that has not been critical also . 
For it is the critical faculty that invents fresh forms . 
The tendency of creation is to repeat itself . 
It is to the critical instinct that we owe each new school that springs up , each new mould that art finds ready to its hand . 
When , at the Renaissance , Greek literature dawned upon Europe , the soil had been in some measure prepared for it . 
Each new school , as it appears , cries out against criticism , but it is to the critical faculty in man that it owes its origin . 
The mere creative instinct does not innovate , but reproduces . 
You have been talking of criticism as an essential part of the creative spirit , and I now fully accept your theory . 
But what of criticism outside creation ? I have a foolish habit of reading periodicals , and it seems to me that most modern criticism is perfectly valueless . 
So is most modern creative work also . 
Mediocrity weighing mediocrity in the balance , and incompetence applauding its brother that is the spectacle which the artistic activity of England affords us from time to time . 
And yet , I feel I am a little unfair in this matter . 
This is , indeed , only what one would expect , for criticism demands infinitely more cultivation than creation does . 
Anybody can write a three volumed novel . 
It merely requires a complete ignorance of both life and literature . 
The difficulty that I should fancy the reviewer feels is the difficulty of sustaining any standard . 
Where there is no style a standard must be impossible . 
The poor reviewers are apparently reduced to be the reporters of the police court of literature , the chroniclers of the doings of the habitual criminals of art . 
It is sometimes said of them that they do not read all through the works they are called upon to criticise . 
Or at least they should not . 
To know the vintage and quality of a wine one need not drink the whole cask . 
It must be perfectly easy in half an hour to say whether a book is worth anything or worth nothing . 
Ten minutes are really sufficient , if one has the instinct for form . 
Who wants to wade through a dull volume ? One tastes it , and that is quite enough more than enough , I should imagine . 
I am aware that there are many honest workers in painting as well as in literature who object to criticism entirely . 
Their work stands in no intellectual relation to their age . 
It brings us no new element of pleasure . 
It suggests no fresh departure of thought , or passion , or beauty . 
It should not be spoken of . 
It should be left to the oblivion that it deserves . 
But , my dear fellow excuse me for interrupting you you seem to me to be allowing your passion for criticism to lead you a great deal too far . 
For , after all , even you must admit that it is much more difficult to do a thing than to talk about it . 
More difficult to do a thing than to talk about it ? Not at all . 
That is a gross popular error . 
It is very much more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it . 
In the sphere of actual life that is of course obvious . 
Only a great man can write it . 
There is no mode of action , no form of emotion , that we do not share with the lower animals . 
It is only by language that we rise above them , or above each other by language , which is the parent , and not the child , of thought . 
No , Ernest , don't talk about action . 
It is a blind thing dependent on external influences , and moved by an impulse of whose nature it is unconscious . 
It is a thing incomplete in its essence , because limited by accident , and ignorant of its direction , being always at variance with its aim . 
Its basis is the lack of imagination . 
It is the last resource of those who know not how to dream . 
Gilbert , you treat the world as if it were a crystal ball . 
You hold it in your hand , and reverse it to please a wilful fancy . 
You do nothing but re write history . 
The one duty we owe to history is to re write it . 
That is not the least of the tasks in store for the critical spirit . 
When we have fully discovered the scientific laws that govern life , we shall realise that the one person who has more illusions than the dreamer is the man of action . 
He , indeed , knows neither the origin of his deeds nor their results . 
It is because Humanity has never known where it was going that it has been able to find its way . 
You think , then , that in the sphere of action a conscious aim is a delusion ? GILBERT . 
It is worse than a delusion . 
But men are the slaves of words . 
What is termed Sin is an essential element of progress . 
Without it the world would stagnate , or grow old , or become colourless . 
By its curiosity Sin increases the experience of the race . 
Through its intensified assertion of individualism , it saves us from monotony of type . 
In its rejection of the current notions about morality , it is one with the higher ethics . 
Charity , as even those of whose religion it makes a formal part have been compelled to acknowledge , creates a multitude of evils . 
The mere existence of conscience , that faculty of which people prate so much nowadays , and are so ignorantly proud , is a sign of our imperfect development . 
It must be merged in instinct before we become fine . 
Virtues ! Who knows what the virtues are ? Not you . 
Not I. Not any one . 
It is well for our vanity that we slay the criminal , for if we suffered him to live he might show us what we had gained by his crime . 
It is well for his peace that the saint goes to his martyrdom . 
He is spared the sight of the horror of his harvest . 
Gilbert , you sound too harsh a note . 
Let us go back to the more gracious fields of literature . 
What was it you said ? That it was more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it ? GILBERT . 
Yes I believe I ventured upon that simple truth . 
Surely you see now that I am right ? When man acts he is a puppet . 
When he describes he is a poet . 
The whole secret lies in that . 
Yet , every day the swanlike daughter of Leda comes out on the battlements , and looks down at the tide of war . 
The greybeards wonder at her loveliness , and she stands by the side of the king . 
In his chamber of stained ivory lies her leman . 
He is polishing his dainty armour , and combing the scarlet plume . 
With squire and page , her husband passes from tent to tent . 
She can see his bright hair , and hears , or fancies that she hears , that clear cold voice . 
In the courtyard below , the son of Priam is buckling on his brazen cuirass . 
The white arms of Andromache are around his neck . 
He sets his helmet on the ground , lest their babe should be frightened . 
Phantoms , are they ? Heroes of mist and mountain ? Shadows in a song ? No they are real . 
Action ! What is action ? It dies at the moment of its energy . 
It is a base concession to fact . 
The world is made by the singer for the dreamer . 
While you talk it seems to me to be so . 
It is so in truth . 
On the mouldering citadel of Troy lies the lizard like a thing of green bronze . 
The owl has built her nest in the palace of Priam . 
All day long the fight rages , and when night comes the torches gleam by the tents , and the cresset burns in the hall . 
Those whom the poet makes live have their myriad emotions of joy and terror , of courage and despair , of pleasure and of suffering . 
The seasons come and go in glad or saddening pageant , and with winged or leaden feet the years pass by before them . 
They have their youth and their manhood , they are children , and they grow old . 
It is always dawn for St . 
Helena , as Veronese saw her at the window . 
Through the still morning air the angels bring her the symbol of God's pain . 
The cool breezes of the morning lift the gilt threads from her brow . 
It is twilight always for the dancing nymphs whom Corot set free among the silver poplars of France . 
In eternal twilight they move , those frail diaphanous figures , whose tremulous white feet seem not to touch the dew drenched grass they tread on . 
For them , as for us , the flowers bloom and wither , and the Earth , that Green tressed Goddess as Coleridge calls her , alters her raiment for their pleasure . 
The statue is concentrated to one moment of perfection . 
The image stained upon the canvas possesses no spiritual element of growth or change . 
Movement , that problem of the visible arts , can be truly realised by Literature alone . 
It is Literature that shows us the body in its swiftness and the soul in its unrest . 
Yes I see now what you mean . 
But , surely , the higher you place the creative artist , the lower must the critic rank . 
Because the best that he can give us will be but an echo of rich music , a dim shadow of clear outlined form . 
I quite understand now , and indeed admit most readily , that it is far more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it . 
But , surely , Criticism is itself an art . 
Criticism is , in fact , both creative and independent . 
Criticism is no more to be judged by any low standard of imitation or resemblance than is the work of poet or sculptor . 
He does not even require for the perfection of his art the finest materials . 
Anything will serve his purpose . 
Why not ? Dulness is always an irresistible temptation for brilliancy , and stupidity is the permanent BESTIA TRIONFANS that calls wisdom from its cave . 
To an artist so creative as the critic , what does subject matter signify ? No more and no less than it does to the novelist and the painter . 
Like them , he can find his motives everywhere . 
There is nothing that has not in it suggestion or challenge . 
But is Criticism really a creative art ? GILBERT . 
Why should it not be ? It works with materials , and puts them into a form that is at once new and delightful . 
What more can one say of poetry ? Indeed , I would call criticism a creation within a creation . 
Certainly , it is never trammelled by any shackles of verisimilitude . 
No ignoble considerations of probability , that cowardly concession to the tedious repetitions of domestic or public life , affect it ever . 
One may appeal from fiction unto fact . 
But from the soul there is no appeal . 
From the soul ? GILBERT . 
Yes , from the soul . 
That is what the highest criticism really is , the record of one's own soul . 
It is more fascinating than history , as it is concerned simply with oneself . 
It is more delightful than philosophy , as its subject is concrete and not abstract , real and not vague . 
His sole aim is to chronicle his own impressions . 
It is for him that pictures are painted , books written , and marble hewn into form . 
I seem to have heard another theory of Criticism . 
For the highest Criticism deals with art not as expressive but as impressive purely . 
But is that really so ? GILBERT . 
And it is for this very reason that the criticism which I have quoted is criticism of the highest kind . 
It treats the work of art simply as a starting point for a new creation . 
It does not confine itself let us at least suppose so for the moment to discovering the real intention of the artist and accepting that as final . 
And what is true about music is true about all the arts . 
Beauty has as many meanings as man has moods . 
Beauty is the symbol of symbols . 
Beauty reveals everything , because it expresses nothing . 
When it shows us itself , it shows us the whole fiery coloured world . 
But is such work as you have talked about really criticism ? GILBERT . 
Yes , that is my theory . 
To the critic the work of art is simply a suggestion for a new work of his own , that need not necessarily bear any obvious resemblance to the thing it criticises . 
But this is not so . 
Indeed , pictures of this kind are far too intelligible . 
For the domain of the painter is , as I suggested before , widely different from that of the poet . 
Their pictures are , as a natural consequence , insufferably tedious . 
They have degraded the invisible arts into the obvious arts , and the one thing not worth looking at is the obvious . 
I do not say that poet and painter may not treat of the same subject . 
They have always done so and will always do so . 
But while the poet can be pictorial or not , as he chooses , the painter must be pictorial always . 
For a painter is limited , not to what he sees in nature , but to what upon canvas may be seen . 
And so , my dear Ernest , pictures of this kind will not really fascinate the critic . 
It is sometimes said that the tragedy of an artist's life is that he cannot realise his ideal . 
But the true tragedy that dogs the steps of most artists is that they realise their ideal too absolutely . 
For , when the ideal is realised , it is robbed of its wonder and its mystery , and becomes simply a new starting point for an ideal that is other than itself . 
This is the reason why music is the perfect type of art . 
Music can never reveal its ultimate secret . 
This , also , is the explanation of the value of limitations in art . 
But I see it is time for supper . 
After we have discussed some Chambertin and a few ortolans , we will pass on to the question of the critic considered in the light of the interpreter . 
Ah ! you admit , then , that the critic may occasionally be allowed to see the object as in itself it really is . 
I am not quite sure . 
Perhaps I may admit it after supper . 
There is a subtle influence in supper . 
THE CRITIC AS ARTIST WITH SOME REMARKS UPON THE IMPORTANCE OF DISCUSSING EVERYTHING A DIALOGUE Part II . 
The ortolans were delightful , and the Chambertin perfect , and now let us return to the point at issue . 
Ah ! don't let us do that . 
Conversation should touch everything , but should concentrate itself on nothing . 
No I want to discuss the critic and criticism . 
Well , now , tell me , will not the critic be sometimes a real interpreter ? GILBERT . 
Yes the critic will be an interpreter , if he chooses . 
Yet his object will not always be to explain the work of art . 
He may seek rather to deepen its mystery , to raise round it , and round its maker , that mist of wonder which is dear to both gods and worshippers alike . 
Ordinary people are 'terribly at ease in Zion . 
But an appreciation of Milton is , as the late Rector of Lincoln remarked once , the reward of consummate scholarship . 
Rather , he will look upon Art as a goddess whose mystery it is his province to intensify , and whose majesty his privilege to make more marvellous in the eyes of men . 
And here , Ernest , this strange thing happens . 
I would have said that personality would have been a disturbing element . 
No it is an element of revelation . 
If you wish to understand others you must intensify your own individualism . 
What , then , is the result ? GILBERT . 
I will tell you , and perhaps I can tell you best by definite example . 
The actor is a critic of the drama . 
He shows the poet's work under new conditions , and by a method special to himself . 
He takes the written word , and action , gesture and voice become the media of revelation . 
The singer or the player on lute and viol is the critic of music . 
And in the case of all these creative critics of art it is evident that personality is an absolute essential for any real interpretation . 
When a great actor plays Shakespeare we have the same experience . 
His own individuality becomes a vital part of the interpretation . 
In point of fact , there is no such thing as Shakespeare's Hamlet . 
If Hamlet has something of the definiteness of a work of art , he has also all the obscurity that belongs to life . 
There are as many Hamlets as there are melancholies . 
As many Hamlets as there are melancholies ? GILBERT . 
Yes and as art springs from personality , so it is only to personality that it can be revealed , and from the meeting of the two comes right interpretative criticism . 
The critic , then , considered as the interpreter , will give no less than he receives , and lend as much as he borrows ? GILBERT . 
He will be always showing us the work of art in some new relation to our age . 
He will always be reminding us that great works of art are living things are , in fact , the only things that live . 
For life is terribly deficient in form . 
Its catastrophes happen in the wrong way and to the wrong people . 
There is a grotesque horror about its comedies , and its tragedies seem to culminate in farce . 
One is always wounded when one approaches it . 
Things last either too long , or not long enough . 
Poor life ! Poor human life ! Are you not even touched by the tears that the Roman poet tells us are part of its essence . 
Too quickly touched by them , I fear . 
No , Ernest life cheats us with shadows , like a puppet master . 
We ask it for pleasure . 
It gives it to us , with bitterness and disappointment in its train . 
Life then is a failure ? GILBERT . 
From the artistic point of view , certainly . 
There is no mood or passion that Art cannot give us , and those of us who have discovered her secret can settle beforehand what our experiences are going to be . 
We can choose our day and select our hour . 
We pass through the gate of the legend fatal to hope , and with pity or with joy behold the horror of another world . 
The hypocrites go by , with their painted faces and their cowls of gilded lead . 
Out of the ceaseless winds that drive them , the carnal look at us , and we watch the heretic rending his flesh , and the glutton lashed by the rain . 
Sinon , the false Greek of Troy , mocks at him . 
He smites him in the face , and they wrangle . 
We are fascinated by their shame , and loiter , till Virgil chides us and leads us away to that city turreted by giants where great Nimrod blows his horn . 
Terrible things are in store for us , and we go to meet them in Dante's raiment and with Dante's heart . 
We traverse the marshes of the Styx , and Argenti swims to the boat through the slimy waves . 
He calls to us , and we reject him . 
When we hear the voice of his agony we are glad , and Virgil praises us for the bitterness of our scorn . 
We tread upon the cold crystal of Cocytus , in which traitors stick like straws in glass . 
Our foot strikes against the head of Bocca . 
He will not tell us his name , and we tear the hair in handfuls from the screaming skull . 
Alberigo prays us to break the ice upon his face that he may weep a little . 
We tremble , and come forth to re behold the stars . 
In the land of Purgation the air is freer , and the holy mountain rises into the pure light of day . 
Soul after soul makes us share in some repentance or some joy . 
Sordello , that noble and disdainful Lombard , eyes us from afar like a couchant lion . 
When he learns that Virgil is one of Mantua's citizens , he falls upon his neck , and when he learns that he is the singer of Rome he falls before his feet . 
The ancient flame wakes within us . 
Our blood quickens through terrible pulses . 
It is Beatrice , the woman we have worshipped . 
The ice congealed about our heart melts . 
Wild tears of anguish break from us , and we bow our forehead to the ground , for we know that we have sinned . 
Out of that eternal pearl , the moon , the face of Piccarda Donati leans to us . 
Her beauty troubles us for a moment , and when , like a thing that falls through water , she passes away , we gaze after her with wistful eyes . 
The sweet planet of Venus is full of lovers . 
Joachim of Flora stands in the sun , and , in the sun , Aquinas recounts the story of St . 
Francis and Bonaventure the story of St . 
Through the burning rubies of Mars , Cacciaguida approaches . 
In Saturn the soul sings not , and even she who guides us dare not smile . 
On a ladder of gold the flames rise and fall . 
At last , we see the pageant of the Mystical Rose . 
Beatrice fixes her eyes upon the face of God to turn them not again . 
The beatific vision is granted to us we know the Love that moves the sun and all the stars . 
It is the book that Gautier loved , it is Baudelaire's masterpiece . 
The feet of his love as she walked in the garden were like lilies set upon lilies . 
Softer than sleep laden poppy petals were her lips , softer than violets and as scented . 
The flame like crocus sprang from the grass to look at her . 
For her the slim narcissus stored the cool rain and for her the anemones forgot the Sicilian winds that wooed them . 
And neither crocus , nor anemone , nor narcissus was as fair as she was . 
It is a strange thing , this transference of emotion . 
We sicken with the same maladies as the poets , and the singer lends us his pain . 
Dead lips have their message for us , and hearts that have fallen to dust can communicate their joy . 
We run to kiss the bleeding mouth of Fantine , and we follow Manon Lescaut over the whole world . 
Ours is the love madness of the Tyrian , and the terror of Orestes is ours also . 
There is no passion that we cannot feel , no pleasure that we may not gratify , and we can choose the time of our initiation and the time of our freedom also . 
Life ! Life ! Don't let us go to life for our fulfilment or our experience . 
It makes us pay too high a price for its wares , and we purchase the meanest of its secrets at a cost that is monstrous and infinite . 
Must we go , then , to Art for everything ? GILBERT . 
Because Art does not hurt us . 
The tears that we shed at a play are a type of the exquisite sterile emotions that it is the function of Art to awaken . 
We weep , but we are not wounded . 
We grieve , but our grief is not bitter . 
In the actual life of man , sorrow , as Spinoza says somewhere , is a passage to a lesser perfection . 
But the sorrow with which Art fills us both purifies and initiates , if I may quote once more from the great art critic of the Greeks . 
One can feel so much , and no more . 
It seems to me that in everything that you have said there is something radically immoral . 
Society often forgives the criminal it never forgives the dreamer . 
They mean well , no doubt , these honest beaming folk . 
Perhaps that is the reason why they are so excessively tedious . 
I said to you some time ago that it was far more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it . 
Let me say to you now that to do nothing at all is the most difficult thing in the world , the most difficult and the most intellectual . 
To Plato , with his passion for wisdom , this was the noblest form of energy . 
To Aristotle , with his passion for knowledge , this was the noblest form of energy also . 
It was to this that the passion for holiness led the saint and the mystic of mediaeval days . 
We exist , then , to do nothing ? GILBERT . 
It is to do nothing that the elect exist . 
Action is limited and relative . 
Unlimited and absolute is the vision of him who sits at ease and watches , who walks in loneliness and dreams . 
To us the CITTE DIVINA is colourless , and the FRUITIO DEI without meaning . 
Metaphysics do not satisfy our temperaments , and religious ecstasy is out of date . 
The world through which the Academic philosopher becomes 'the spectator of all time and of all existence' is not really an ideal world , but simply a world of abstract ideas . 
When we enter it , we starve amidst the chill mathematics of thought . 
The courts of the city of God are not open to us now . 
Its gates are guarded by Ignorance , and to pass them we have to surrender all that in our nature is most divine . 
It is enough that our fathers believed . 
They have exhausted the faith faculty of the species . 
Their legacy to us is the scepticism of which they were afraid . 
Had they put it into words , it might not live within us as thought . 
No , Ernest , no . 
We cannot go back to the saint . 
There is far more to be learned from the sinner . 
We cannot go back to the philosopher , and the mystic leads us astray . 
To the aesthetic temperament the vague is always repellent . 
The Greeks were a nation of artists , because they were spared the sense of the infinite . 
Like Aristotle , like Goethe after he had read Kant , we desire the concrete , and nothing but the concrete can satisfy us . 
What then do you propose ? GILBERT . 
For he to whom the present is the only thing that is present , knows nothing of the age in which he lives . 
To realise the nineteenth century , one must realise every century that has preceded it and that has contributed to its making . 
To know anything about oneself one must know all about others . 
There must be no mood with which one cannot sympathise , no dead mode of life that one cannot make alive . 
Is this impossible ? I think not . 
It has shown us that we are never less free than when we try to act . 
It has hemmed us round with the nets of the hunter , and written upon the wall the prophecy of our doom . 
We may not watch it , for it is within us . 
We may not see it , save in a mirror that mirrors the soul . 
It is Nemesis without her mask . 
It is the last of the Fates , and the most terrible . 
It is the only one of the Gods whose real name we know . 
It is something that has dwelt in fearful places , and in ancient sepulchres has made its abode . 
It is sick with many maladies , and has memories of curious sins . 
It is wiser than we are , and its wisdom is bitter . 
It fills us with impossible desires , and makes us follow what we know we cannot gain . 
One thing , however , Ernest , it can do for us . 
It can lead us away from surroundings whose beauty is dimmed to us by the mist of familiarity , or whose ignoble ugliness and sordid claims are marring the perfection of our development . 
It can help us to leave the age in which we were born , and to pass into other ages , and find ourselves not exiled from their air . 
It can teach us how to escape from our experience , and to realise the experiences of those who are greater than we are . 
The pain of Leopardi crying out against life becomes our pain . 
Theocritus blows on his pipe , and we laugh with the lips of nymph and shepherd . 
In the wolfskin of Pierre Vidal we flee before the hounds , and in the armour of Lancelot we ride from the bower of the Queen . 
We have whispered the secret of our love beneath the cowl of Abelard , and in the stained raiment of Villon have put our shame into song . 
We can see the dawn through Shelley's eyes , and when we wander with Endymion the Moon grows amorous of our youth . 
Ours is the anguish of Atys , and ours the weak rage and noble sorrows of the Dane . 
Do you think that it is the imagination that enables us to live these countless lives ? Yes it is the imagination and the imagination is the result of heredity . 
It is simply concentrated race experience . 
But where in this is the function of the critical spirit ? GILBERT . 
The culture that this transmission of racial experiences makes possible can be made perfect by the critical spirit alone , and indeed may be said to be one with it . 
We , too , might live like them , and set ourselves to witness with appropriate emotions the varied scenes that man and nature afford . 
We might make ourselves spiritual by detaching ourselves from action , and become perfect by the rejection of energy . 
It has often seemed to me that Browning felt something of this . 
Shakespeare hurls Hamlet into active life , and makes him realise his mission by effort . 
Browning might have given us a Hamlet who would have realised his mission by thought . 
Incident and event were to him unreal or unmeaning . 
He made the soul the protagonist of life's tragedy , and looked on action as the one undramatic element of a play . 
To us , at any rate , the Greek text which cannot be reproduced is the true ideal . 
From the high tower of Thought we can look out at the world . 
Calm , and self centred , and complete , the aesthetic critic contemplates life , and no arrow drawn at a venture can pierce between the joints of his harness . 
He at least is safe . 
He has discovered how to live . 
For action of every kind belongs to the sphere of ethics . 
The aim of art is simply to create a mood . 
Is such a mode of life unpractical ? Ah ! it is not so easy to be unpractical as the ignorant Philistine imagines . 
It were well for England if it were so . 
There is no country in the world so much in need of unpractical people as this country of ours . 
With us , Thought is degraded by its constant association with practice . 
The necessity for a career forces every one to take sides . 
We live in the age of the overworked , and the under educated the age in which people are so industrious that they become absolutely stupid . 
And , harsh though it may sound , I cannot help saying that such people deserve their doom . 
The sure way of knowing nothing about life is to try to make oneself useful . 
A charming doctrine , Gilbert . 
I am not sure about that , but it has at least the minor merit of being true . 
That the desire to do good to others produces a plentiful crop of prigs is the least of the evils of which it is the cause . 
The prig is a very interesting psychological study , and though of all poses a moral pose is the most offensive , still to have a pose at all is something . 
It is a formal recognition of the importance of treating life from a definite and reasoned standpoint . 
That Humanitarian Sympathy wars against Nature , by securing the survival of the failure , may make the man of science loathe its facile virtues . 
But , in the eyes of the thinker , the real harm that emotional sympathy does is that it limits knowledge , and so prevents us from solving any single social problem . 
We are trying at present to stave off the coming crisis , the coming revolution as my friends the Fabianists call it , by means of doles and alms . 
Well , when the revolution or crisis arrives , we shall be powerless , because we shall know nothing . 
And so , Ernest , let us not be deceived . 
England will never be civilised till she has added Utopia to her dominions . 
There is more than one of her colonies that she might with advantage surrender for so fair a land . 
What we want are unpractical people who see beyond the moment , and think beyond the day . 
Those who try to lead the people can only do so by following the mob . 
It is through the voice of one crying in the wilderness that the ways of the gods must be prepared . 
But perhaps you think that in beholding for the mere joy of beholding , and contemplating for the sake of contemplation , there is something that is egotistic . 
If you think so , do not say so . 
It takes a thoroughly selfish age , like our own , to deify self sacrifice . 
They miss their aim , too , these philanthropists and sentimentalists of our day , who are always chattering to one about one's duty to one's neighbour . 
You speak with strange feeling , Gilbert . 
Have you had this dreadful experience , as you call it , lately ? GILBERT . 
Few of us escape it . 
People say that the schoolmaster is abroad . 
I wish to goodness he were . 
No , Ernest , self culture is the true ideal of man . 
Goethe saw it , and the immediate debt that we owe to Goethe is greater than the debt we owe to any man since Greek days . 
It was the one thing that made the Renaissance great , and gave us Humanism . 
I do not deny that the intellectual ideal is difficult of attainment , still less that it is , and perhaps will be for years to come , unpopular with the crowd . 
It is so easy for people to have sympathy with suffering . 
It is so difficult for them to have sympathy with thought . 
An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy of being called an idea at all . 
Gilbert , you bewilder me . 
You have told me that all art is , in its essence , immoral . 
Are you going to tell me now that all thought is , in its essence , dangerous ? GILBERT . 
Yes , in the practical sphere it is so . 
They are a wearisome topic , and I am anxious to get back to the sphere in which criticism is free . 
The sphere of the intellect ? GILBERT . 
Well , you seemed to be a little sceptical about the theory . 
But perhaps I wronged you ? ERNEST . 
The difference between objective and subjective work is one of external form merely . 
It is accidental , not essential . 
All artistic creation is absolutely subjective . 
For out of ourselves we can never pass , nor can there be in creation what in the creator was not . 
Nay , I would say that the more objective a creation appears to be , the more subjective it really is . 
Yes , the objective form is the most subjective in matter . 
Man is least himself when he talks in his own person . 
Give him a mask , and he will tell you the truth . 
What other people call one's past has , no doubt , everything to do with them , but has absolutely nothing to do with oneself . 
The man who regards his past is a man who deserves to have no future to look forward to . 
When one has found expression for a mood , one has done with it . 
You laugh but believe me it is so . 
Yesterday it was Realism that charmed one . 
One gained from it that NOUVEAU FRISSON which it was its aim to produce . 
One analysed it , explained it , and wearied of it . 
To day the cry is for Romance , and already the leaves are tremulous in the valley , and on the purple hill tops walks Beauty with slim gilded feet . 
The old modes of creation linger , of course . 
The artists reproduce either themselves or each other , with wearisome iteration . 
But Criticism is always moving on , and the critic is always developing . 
Nor , again , is the critic really limited to the subjective form of expression . 
The method of the drama is his , as well as the method of the epos . 
By its means he can both reveal and conceal himself , and give form to every fancy , and reality to every mood . 
By its means , too , he can invent an imaginary antagonist , and convert him when he chooses by some absurdly sophistical argument . 
Ah ! it is so easy to convert others . 
It is so difficult to convert oneself . 
To arrive at what one really believes , one must speak through lips different from one's own . 
To know the truth one must imagine myriads of falsehoods . 
For what is Truth ? In matters of religion , it is simply the opinion that has survived . 
In matters of science , it is the ultimate sensation . 
In matters of art , it is one's last mood . 
And you see now , Ernest , that the critic has at his disposal as many objective forms of expression as the artist has . 
What would you say they were ? ERNEST . 
Well , I should say that a critic should above all things be fair . 
A critic cannot be fair in the ordinary sense of the word . 
It is only about things that do not interest one that one can give a really unbiassed opinion , which is no doubt the reason why an unbiassed opinion is always absolutely valueless . 
The man who sees both sides of a question , is a man who sees absolutely nothing at all . 
It is to the soul that Art speaks , and the soul may be made the prisoner of the mind as well as of the body . 
It is only an auctioneer who can equally and impartially admire all schools of Art . 
No fairness is not one of the qualities of the true critic . 
It is not even a condition of criticism . 
Each form of Art with which we come in contact dominates us for the moment to the exclusion of every other form . 
We must surrender ourselves absolutely to the work in question , whatever it may be , if we wish to gain its secret . 
For the time , we must think of nothing else , can think of nothing else , indeed . 
The true critic will be rational , at any rate , will he not ? GILBERT . 
Rational ? There are two ways of disliking art , Ernest . 
One is to dislike it . 
The other , to like it rationally . 
For Art , as Plato saw , and not without regret , creates in listener and spectator a form of divine madness . 
It does not spring from inspiration , but it makes others inspired . 
Reason is not the faculty to which it appeals . 
There is nothing sane about the worship of beauty . 
It is too splendid to be sane . 
Those of whose lives it forms the dominant note will always seem to the world to be pure visionaries . 
Well , at least , the critic will be sincere . 
A little sincerity is a dangerous thing , and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal . 
He will realise himself in many forms , and by a thousand different ways , and will ever be curious of new sensations and fresh points of view . 
Through constant change , and through constant change alone , he will find his true unity . 
He will not consent to be the slave of his own opinions . 
For what is mind but motion in the intellectual sphere ? The essence of thought , as the essence of life , is growth . 
You must not be frightened by word , Ernest . 
What people call insincerity is simply a method by which we can multiply our personalities . 
I am afraid I have not been fortunate in my suggestions . 
When they are confused , Chaos has come again . 
It is chiefly , I regret to say , through journalism that such people find expression . 
I regret it because there is much to be said in favour of modern journalism . 
By giving us the opinions of the uneducated , it keeps us in touch with the ignorance of the community . 
By carefully chronicling the current events of contemporary life , it shows us of what very little importance such events really are . 
By invariably discussing the unnecessary it makes us understand what things are requisite for culture , and what are not . 
But it should not allow poor Tartuffe to write articles upon modern art . 
When it does this it stultifies itself . 
And yet Tartuffe's articles and Chadband's notes do this good , at least . 
They serve to show how extremely limited is the area over which ethics , and ethical considerations , can claim to exercise influence . 
Science is out of the reach of morals , for her eyes are fixed upon eternal truths . 
Art is out of the reach of morals , for her eyes are fixed upon things beautiful and immortal and ever changing . 
To morals belong the lower and less intellectual spheres . 
However , let these mouthing Puritans pass they have their comic side . 
For they give us the bald , sordid , disgusting facts of life . 
Not the apostles of that new Puritanism , which is but the whine of the hypocrite , and is both writ and spoken badly . 
The mere suggestion is ridiculous . 
Let us leave these wicked people , and proceed to the discussion of the artistic qualifications necessary for the true critic . 
And what are they ? Tell me yourself . 
Temperament is the primary requisite for the critic a temperament exquisitely susceptible to beauty , and to the various impressions that beauty gives us . 
Under what conditions , and by what means , this temperament is engendered in race or individual , we will not discuss at present . 
But to be purified and made perfect , this sense requires some form of exquisite environment . 
Without this it starves , or is dulled . 
Nor is it merely at Oxford , or Cambridge , that the sense of beauty can be formed and trained and perfected . 
All over England there is a Renaissance of the decorative Arts . 
Ugliness has had its day . 
Even in the houses of the rich there is taste , and the houses of those who are not rich have been made gracious and comely and sweet to live in . 
Caliban , poor noisy Caliban , thinks that when he has ceased to make mows at a thing , the thing ceases to exist . 
What has been done up to now , has been chiefly in the clearing of the way . 
Yet it seems to me to have been , in a measure , done . 
We have got rid of what was bad . 
We have now to make what is beautiful . 
Certainly , for the cultivation of temperament , we must turn to the decorative arts to the arts that touch us , not to the arts that teach us . 
Modern pictures are , no doubt , delightful to look at . 
At least , some of them are . 
But they are quite impossible to live with they are too clever , too assertive , too intellectual . 
Their meaning is too obvious , and their method too clearly defined . 
One exhausts what they have to say in a very short time , and then they become as tedious as one's relations . 
I am very fond of the work of many of the Impressionist painters of Paris and London . 
Subtlety and distinction have not yet left the school . 
For a class that welcomes the incompetent with sympathetic eagerness , and that confuses the bizarre with the beautiful , and vulgarity with truth , they are extremely accomplished . 
But even the Impressionists , earnest and industrious as they are , will not do . 
Their white keynote , with its variations in lilac , was an era in colour . 
One tires , at the end , of the work of individuals whose individuality is always noisy , and generally uninteresting . 
Still , the art that is frankly decorative is the art to live with . 
It is , of all our visible arts , the one art that creates in us both mood and temperament . 
Mere colour , unspoiled by meaning , and unallied with definite form , can speak to the soul in a thousand different ways . 
The harmony that resides in the delicate proportions of lines and masses becomes mirrored in the mind . 
The repetitions of pattern give us rest . 
The marvels of design stir the imagination . 
In the mere loveliness of the materials employed there are latent elements of culture . 
For the real artist is he who proceeds , not from feeling to form , but from form to thought and passion . 
From time to time the world cries out against some charming artistic poet , because , to use its hackneyed and silly phrase , he has 'nothing to say . 
But if he had something to say , he would probably say it , and the result would be tedious . 
It is just because he has no new message , that he can do beautiful work . 
He gains his inspiration from form , and from form purely , as an artist should . 
A real passion would ruin him . 
Whatever actually occurs is spoiled for art . 
All bad poetry springs from genuine feeling . 
To be natural is to be obvious , and to be obvious is to be inartistic . 
I wonder do you really believe what you say ? GILBERT . 
Why should you wonder ? It is not merely in art that the body is the soul . 
In every sphere of life Form is the beginning of things . 
The rhythmic harmonious gestures of dancing convey , Plato tells us , both rhythm and harmony into the mind . 
Forms are the food of faith , cried Newman in one of those great moments of sincerity that make us admire and know the man . 
He was right , though he may not have known how terribly right he was . 
The Creeds are believed , not because they are rational , but because they are repeated . 
It is the secret of life . 
Find expression for a sorrow , and it will become dear to you . 
Find expression for a joy , and you intensify its ecstasy . 
Do you wish to love ? Use Love's Litany , and the words will create the yearning from which the world fancies that they spring . 
Your theory of education is delightful . 
But what influence will your critic , brought up in these exquisite surroundings , possess ? Do you really think that any artist is ever affected by criticism ? GILBERT . 
The influence of the critic will be the mere fact of his own existence . 
He will represent the flawless type . 
In him the culture of the century will see itself realised . 
You must not ask of him to have any aim other than the perfecting of himself . 
The demand of the intellect , as has been well said , is simply to feel itself alive . 
It is always with the best intentions that the worst work is done . 
But may it not be that the poet is the best judge of poetry , and the painter of painting ? Each art must appeal primarily to the artist who works in it . 
His judgment will surely be the most valuable ? GILBERT . 
The appeal of all art is simply to the artistic temperament . 
Art does not address herself to the specialist . 
Her claim is that she is universal , and that in all her manifestations she is one . 
That very concentration of vision that makes a man an artist , limits by its sheer intensity his faculty of fine appreciation . 
The energy of creation hurries him blindly on to his own goal . 
The wheels of his chariot raise the dust as a cloud around him . 
The gods are hidden from each other . 
They can recognise their worshippers . 
You say that a great artist cannot recognise the beauty of work different from his own . 
It is impossible for him to do so . 
The realism of Euripides was hateful to Sophokles . 
Those droppings of warm tears had no music for him . 
Milton , with his sense of the grand style , could not understand the method of Shakespeare , any more than could Sir Joshua the method of Gainsborough . 
Bad artists always admire each other's work . 
They call it being large minded and free from prejudice . 
But a truly great artist cannot conceive of life being shown , or beauty fashioned , under any conditions other than those that he has selected . 
Creation employs all its critical faculty within its own sphere . 
It may not use it in the sphere that belongs to others . 
It is exactly because a man cannot do a thing that he is the proper judge of it . 
Do you really mean that ? GILBERT . 
Yes , for creation limits , while contemplation widens , the vision . 
But what about technique ? Surely each art has its separate technique ? GILBERT . 
Certainly each art has its grammar and its materials . 
There is no mystery about either , and the incompetent can always be correct . 
That is the reason why the artist cannot teach it , why the pupil cannot learn it , and why the aesthetic critic can understand it . 
To the great poet , there is only one method of music his own . 
To the great painter , there is only one manner of painting that which he himself employs . 
The aesthetic critic , and the aesthetic critic alone , can appreciate all forms and modes . 
It is to him that Art makes her appeal . 
Well , I think I have put all my questions to you . 
And now I must admit GILBERT . 
Ah ! don't say that you agree with me . 
When people agree with me I always feel that I must be wrong . 
In that case I certainly won't tell you whether I agree with you or not . 
But I will put another question . 
You have explained to me that criticism is a creative art . 
What future has it ? GILBERT . 
It is to criticism that the future belongs . 
The subject matter at the disposal of creation becomes every day more limited in extent and variety . 
Providence and Mr. Walter Besant have exhausted the obvious . 
If creation is to last at all , it can only do so on the condition of becoming far more critical than it is at present . 
The old roads and dusty highways have been traversed too often . 
Their charm has been worn away by plodding feet , and they have lost that element of novelty or surprise which is so essential for romance . 
He who would stir us now by fiction must either give us an entirely new background , or reveal to us the soul of man in its innermost workings . 
The first is for the moment being done for us by Mr. Rudyard Kipling . 
As one turns over the pages of his PLAIN TALES FROM THE HILLS , one feels as if one were seated under a palm tree reading life by superb flashes of vulgarity . 
The bright colours of the bazaars dazzle one's eyes . 
The jaded , second rate Anglo Indians are in exquisite incongruity with their surroundings . 
The mere lack of style in the story teller gives an odd journalistic realism to what he tells us . 
From the point of view of literature Mr. Kipling is a genius who drops his aspirates . 
From the point of view of life , he is a reporter who knows vulgarity better than any one has ever known it . 
Dickens knew its clothes and its comedy . 
Mr. Kipling knows its essence and its seriousness . 
He is our first authority on the second rate , and has seen marvellous things through keyholes , and his backgrounds are real works of art . 
As for the second condition , we have had Browning , and Meredith is with us . 
But there is still much to be done in the sphere of introspection . 
People sometimes say that fiction is getting too morbid . 
As far as psychology is concerned , it has never been morbid enough . 
We have merely touched the surface of the soul , that is all . 
I myself am inclined to think that creation is doomed . 
It springs from too primitive , too natural an impulse . 
However this may be , it is certain that the subject matter at the disposal of creation is always diminishing , while the subject matter of criticism increases daily . 
There are always new attitudes for the mind , and new points of view . 
The duty of imposing form upon chaos does not grow less as the world advances . 
There was never a time when Criticism was more needed than it is now . 
It is only by its means that Humanity can become conscious of the point at which it has arrived . 
Hours ago , Ernest , you asked me the use of Criticism . 
You might just as well have asked me the use of thought . 
It is Criticism , as Arnold points out , that creates the intellectual atmosphere of the age . 
It is Criticism , as I hope to point out myself some day , that makes the mind a fine instrument . 
We , in our educational system , have burdened the memory with a load of unconnected facts , and laboriously striven to impart our laboriously acquired knowledge . 
We teach people how to remember , we never teach them how to grow . 
It has never occurred to us to try and develop in the mind a more subtle quality of apprehension and discernment . 
But Wisdom has always been hidden from it . 
Considered as an instrument of thought , the English mind is coarse and undeveloped . 
The only thing that can purify it is the growth of the critical instinct . 
It is Criticism , again , that , by concentration , makes culture possible . 
It takes the cumbersome mass of creative work , and distils it into a finer essence . 
Prehistoric history belongs to the philological and archaeological critic . 
It is to him that the origins of things are revealed . 
The self conscious deposits of an age are nearly always misleading . 
Through philological criticism alone we know more of the centuries of which no actual record has been preserved , than we do of the centuries that have left us their scrolls . 
It can do for us what can be done neither by physics nor metaphysics . 
It can give us the exact science of mind in the process of becoming . 
It can do for us what History cannot do . 
It can tell us what man thought before he learned how to write . 
You have asked me about the influence of Criticism . 
I think I have answered that question already but there is this also to be said . 
It is Criticism that makes us cosmopolitan . 
The Manchester school tried to make men realise the brotherhood of humanity , by pointing out the commercial advantages of peace . 
It sought to degrade the wonderful world into a common market place for the buyer and the seller . 
It addressed itself to the lowest instincts , and it failed . 
War followed upon war , and the tradesman's creed did not prevent France and Germany from clashing together in blood stained battle . 
There are others of our own day who seek to appeal to mere emotional sympathies , or to the shallow dogmas of some vague system of abstract ethics . 
They have their Peace Societies , so dear to the sentimentalists , and their proposals for unarmed International Arbitration , so popular among those who have never read history . 
But mere emotional sympathy will not do . 
There is only one thing worse than Injustice , and that is Justice without her sword in her hand . 
When Right is not Might , it is Evil . 
No the emotions will not make us cosmopolitan , any more than the greed for gain could do so . 
It is only by the cultivation of the habit of intellectual criticism that we shall be able to rise superior to race prejudices . 
Goethe you will not misunderstand what I say was a German of the Germans . 
He loved his country no man more so . 
Its people were dear to him and he led them . 
Yet , when the iron hoof of Napoleon trampled upon vineyard and cornfield , his lips were silent . 
Criticism will annihilate race prejudices , by insisting upon the unity of the human mind in the variety of its forms . 
If we are tempted to make war upon another nation , we shall remember that we are seeking to destroy an element of our own culture , and possibly its most important element . 
As long as war is regarded as wicked , it will always have its fascination . 
When it is looked upon as vulgar , it will cease to be popular . 
The change will of course be slow , and people will not be conscious of it . 
They will not say 'We will not war against France because her prose is perfect , but because the prose of France is perfect , they will not hate the land . 
Intellectual criticism will bind Europe together in bonds far closer than those that can be forged by shopman or sentimentalist . 
It will give us the peace that springs from understanding . 
How little we have of this temper in England , and how much we need it ! The English mind is always in a rage . 
The intellect of the race is wasted in the sordid and stupid quarrels of second rate politicians or third rate theologians . 
It was reserved for a man of science to show us the supreme example of that 'sweet reasonableness' of which Arnold spoke so wisely , and , alas ! to so little effect . 
The author of the ORIGIN OF SPECIES had , at any rate , the philosophic temper . 
If one contemplates the ordinary pulpits and platforms of England , one can but feel the contempt of Julian , or the indifference of Montaigne . 
We are dominated by the fanatic , whose worst vice is his sincerity . 
Anything approaching to the free play of the mind is practically unknown amongst us . 
People cry out against the sinner , yet it is not the sinful , but the stupid , who are our shame . 
There is no sin except stupidity . 
Ah ! what an antinomian you are ! GILBERT . 
The artistic critic , like the mystic , is an antinomian always . 
To be good , according to the vulgar standard of goodness , is obviously quite easy . 
It merely requires a certain amount of sordid terror , a certain lack of imaginative thought , and a certain low passion for middle class respectability . 
Aesthetics are higher than ethics . 
They belong to a more spiritual sphere . 
To discern the beauty of a thing is the finest point to which we can arrive . 
Even a colour sense is more important , in the development of the individual , than a sense of right and wrong . 
Aesthetics , in fact , are to Ethics in the sphere of conscious civilisation , what , in the sphere of the external world , sexual is to natural selection . 
Ethics , like natural selection , make existence possible . 
Aesthetics , like sexual selection , make life lovely and wonderful , fill it with new forms , and give it progress , and variety and change . 
Is this dangerous ? Yes it is dangerous all ideas , as I told you , are so . 
But the night wearies , and the light flickers in the lamp . 
One more thing I cannot help saying to you . 
You have spoken against Criticism as being a sterile thing . 
Not to recognise this is to miss the meaning of one of the most important eras in the progress of the world . 
Creation is always behind the age . 
It is Criticism that leads us . 
The Critical Spirit and the World Spirit are one . 
And he who is in possession of this spirit , or whom this spirit possesses , will , I suppose , do nothing ? GILBERT . 
He will look out upon the world and know its secret . 
By contact with divine things he will become divine . 
His will be the perfect life , and his only . 
You have told me many strange things to night , Gilbert . 
My friend , you are a dreamer . 
Yes I am a dreamer . 
For a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight , and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world . 
But , see , it is dawn already . 
Draw back the curtains and open the windows wide . 
How cool the morning air is ! Piccadilly lies at our feet like a long riband of silver . 
A faint purple mist hangs over the Park , and the shadows of the white houses are purple . 
It is too late to sleep . 
Let us go down to Covent Garden and look at the roses . 
Come ! I am tired of thought . 
As for the uses Shakespeare makes of disguises the instances are almost numberless . 
In the actual dialogue also some of the most vivid passages are those suggested by costume . 
For he is most careful to tell us the dress and appearance of each character . 
'Racine abhorre la realite , says Auguste Vacquerie somewhere 'il ne daigne pas s'occuper de son costume . 
Si l'on s'en rapportait aux indications du poete , Agamemnon serait vetu d'un sceptre et Achille d'une epee . 
But with Shakespeare it is very different . 
Bottom is in homespun , Lysander is distinguished from Oberon by his wearing an Athenian dress , and Launce has holes in his boots . 
The Duchess of Gloucester stands in a white sheet with her husband in mourning beside her . 
The motley of the Fool , the scarlet of the Cardinal , and the French lilies broidered on the English coats , are all made occasion for jest or taunt in the dialogue . 
We know the patterns on the Dauphin's armour and the Pucelle's sword , the crest on Warwick's helmet and the colour of Bardolph's nose . 
Portia has golden hair , Phoebe is black haired , Orlando has chestnut curls , and Sir Andrew Aguecheek's hair hangs like flax on a distaff , and won't curl at all . 
Some of the characters are stout , some lean , some straight , some hunchbacked , some fair , some dark , and some are to blacken their faces . 
Lear has a white beard , Hamlet's father a grizzled , and Benedick is to shave his in the course of the play . 
But I think that from what I have already said it is quite clear that Shakespeare was very much interested in costume . 
In criticising the importance given to money in LA COMEDIE HUMAINE , Theophile Gautier says that Balzac may claim to have invented a new hero in fiction , LE HEROS METALLIQUE . 
Of Shakespeare it may be said he was the first to see the dramatic value of doublets , and that a climax may depend on a crinoline . 
, and four incomparable fardingales all of which show a desire to give every character an appropriate dress . 
It is true that there is a mention of a bodice for Eve , but probably the DONNEE of the play was after the Fall . 
Indeed , anybody who cares to examine the age of Shakespeare will see that archaeology was one of its special characteristics . 
Nor was it for the learning that they could acquire , but rather for the loveliness that they might create , that the artists studied these things . 
They were used as motives for the production of a new art , which was to be not beautiful merely , but also strange . 
Infessura tells us that in some workmen digging on the Appian Way came across an old Roman sarcophagus inscribed with the name 'Julia , daughter of Claudius . 
Her eyes were half open , her hair rippled round her in crisp curling gold , and from her lips and cheek the bloom of maidenhood had not yet departed . 
Legend though it may be , yet the story is none the less valuable as showing us the attitude of the Renaissance towards the antique world . 
And this use of archaeology in shows , so far from being a bit of priggish pedantry , is in every way legitimate and beautiful . 
For the stage is not merely the meeting place of all the arts , but is also the return of art to life . 
Indeed , there is not the slightest necessity that the public should know the authorities for the mounting of any piece . 
Mr. Symonds , speaking of that great picture of Mantegna's , now in Hampton Court , says that the artist has converted an antiquarian motive into a theme for melodies of line . 
The same could have been said with equal justice of Mr. Godwin's scene . 
Only the foolish called it pedantry , only those who would neither look nor listen spoke of the passion of the play being killed by its paint . 
And indeed archaeology is only really delightful when transfused into some form of art . 
But the sixteenth century was not merely the age of Vitruvius it was the age of Vecellio also . 
Every nation seems suddenly to have become interested in the dress of its neighbours . 
Europe began to investigate its own clothes , and the amount of books published on national costumes is quite extraordinary . 
Nor was it merely from books and treatises that they acquired their knowledge . 
I can understand archaeology being attacked on the ground of its excessive realism , but to attack it as pedantic seems to be very much beside the mark . 
However , to attack it for any reason is foolish one might just as well speak disrespectfully of the equator . 
For archaeology , being a science , is neither good nor bad , but a fact simply . 
Its value depends entirely on how it is used , and only an artist can use it . 
We look to the archaeologist for the materials , to the artist for the method . 
In designing the scenery and costumes for any of Shakespeare's plays , the first thing the artist has to settle is the best date for the drama . 
This should be determined by the general spirit of the play , more than by any actual historical references which may occur in it . 
Most HAMLETS I have seen were placed far too early . 
Once , however , that the date has been fixed , then the archaeologist is to supply us with the facts which the artist is to convert into effects . 
In looking at Shakespeare's plays as a whole , however , what is really remarkable is their extraordinary fidelity as regards his personages and his plots . 
Many of his DRAMATIS PERSONAE are people who had actually existed , and some of them might have been seen in real life by a portion of his audience . 
Indeed the most violent attack that was made on Shakespeare in his time was for his supposed caricature of Lord Cobham . 
Virgilia is one of those Roman wives on whose tomb was written 'Domi mansit , lanam fecit , as surely as Juliet is the romantic girl of the Renaissance . 
He is even true to the characteristics of race . 
Hamlet has all the imagination and irresolution of the Northern nations , and the Princess Katharine is as entirely French as the heroine of DIVORCONS . 
Harry the Fifth is a pure Englishman , and Othello a true Moor . 
Even in Shakespeare's own day this use of his plays was recognised . 
It is worth noticing that Shakespeare's first and last successes were both historical plays . 
And I have no hesitation in saying that he did so . 
George's Chapel , Windsor , in Shakespeare's day . 
Canterbury can still show us the helm of the Black Prince , Westminster the robes of our kings , and in old St . 
Paul's the very banner that had waved on Bosworth field was hung up by Richmond himself . 
In fact , everywhere that Shakespeare turned in London , he saw the apparel and appurtenances of past ages , and it is impossible to doubt that he made use of his opportunities . 
For the historical plays , then , we may be sure that archaeology was employed , and as for the others I feel certain that it was the case also . 
Racine produced his Roman plays in Louis Quatorze dress on a stage crowded with spectators but we require different conditions for the enjoyment of his art . 
Perfect accuracy of detail , for the sake of perfect illusion , is necessary for us . 
What we have to see is that the details are not allowed to usurp the principal place . 
They must be subordinate always to the general motive of the play . 
Tout doit etre subordonne e ce but . 
L'Homme sur le premier plan , le reste au fond . 
It is true that he has made certain concessions in the case of the employment of curious or strange expressions . 
Ruy Blas talks of M , de Priego as 'sujet du roi' instead of 'noble du roi , and Angelo Malipieri speaks of 'la croix rouge' instead of 'la croix de gueules . 
But they are concessions made to the public , or rather to a section of it . 
C'est un progres qui viendra . 
And , though the description of the crest is not couched in accurate language , still the crest itself was accurately right . 
And this is the important thing . 
Better to take pleasure in a rose than to put its root under a microscope . 
Archaeological accuracy is merely a condition of illusionist stage effect it is not its quality . 
And Lord Lytton's proposal that the dresses should merely be beautiful without being accurate is founded on a misapprehension of the nature of costume , and of its value on the stage . 
This value is twofold , picturesque and dramatic the former depends on the colour of the dress , the latter on its design and character . 
For the dresses of one age do not artistically harmonise with the dresses of another and , as far as dramatic value goes , to confuse the costumes is to confuse the play . 
Costume is a growth , an evolution , and a most important , perhaps the most important , sign of the manners , customs and mode of life of each century . 
The Puritan dislike of colour , adornment and grace in apparel was part of the great revolt of the middle classes against Beauty in the seventeenth century . 
The effeminacy of dress that characterised the reign of Richard the Second was a constant theme of contemporary authors . 
For we can still discern on the King's robe his favourite badge the sun issuing from a cloud . 
And , valuable as beauty of effect on the stage is , the highest beauty is not merely comparable with absolute accuracy of detail , but really dependent on it . 
The true dramatist , in fact , shows us life under the conditions of art , not art in the form of life . 
In Mr. Hare's production OF AS YOU LIKE IT at the St . 
Mr. Lewis Wingfield's explanation that the sumptuary laws of the period necessitated their doing so , is , I am afraid , hardly sufficient . 
Outlaws , lurking in a forest and living by the chase , are not very likely to care much about ordinances of dress . 
They were probably attired like Robin Hood's men , to whom , indeed , they are compared in the course of the play . 
And that their dress was not that of wealthy noblemen may be seen by Orlando's words when he breaks in upon them . 
He mistakes them for robbers , and is amazed to find that they answer him in courteous and gentle terms . 
Lady Archibald Campbell's production , under Mr. E. W. Godwin's direction , of the same play in Coombe Wood was , as regards mounting , far more artistic . 
At least it seemed so to me . 
The Duke and his companions were dressed in serge tunics , leathern jerkins , high boots and gauntlets , and wore bycocket hats and hoods . 
And as they were playing in a real forest , they found , I am sure , their dresses extremely convenient . 
The perfect naturalness of the scene was due to the absolute accuracy and appropriateness of everything that was worn . 
Nor could archaeology have been put to a severer test , or come out of it more triumphantly . 
Blue also is too frequently used it is not merely a dangerous colour to wear by gaslight , but it is really difficult in England to get a thoroughly good blue . 
The fine Chinese blue , which we all so much admire , takes two years to dye , and the English public will not wait so long for a colour . 
And this is curious , considering the general colour of the dress of a century in which , as Baudelaire says , 'Nous celebrons tous quelque enterrement . 
Its decorative value is , of course , the same as that of white or gold it can separate and harmonise colours . 
In modern plays the black frock coat of the hero becomes important in itself , and should be given a suitable background . 
This , of course , can only be done when there is one single mind directing the whole production . 
The facts of art are diverse , but the essence of artistic effect is unity . 
Monarchy , Anarchy , and Republicanism may contend for the government of nations but a theatre should be in the power of a cultured despot . 
There may be division of labour , but there must be no division of mind . 
And there should be far more dress rehearsals than there are now . 
Costumes , of course , they are to the designer but dresses they should be to those that wear them . 
Besides until an actor is at home in his dress , he is not at home in his part . 
POUR ETRE PLUS DIFFICILE , LA TACHE N'EN EST QUE PLUS GLORIEUSE . 
Not that I agree with everything that I have said in this essay . 
There is much with which I entirely disagree . 
The essay simply represents an artistic standpoint , and in aesthetic criticism attitude is everything . 
For in art there is no such thing as a universal truth . 
A Truth in art is that whose contradictory is also true . 
The truths of metaphysics are the truths of masks . 
