An Inland Voyage by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk AN INLAND VOYAGE PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION To equip so small a book with a preface is , I am half afraid , to sin against proportion . 
But a preface is more than an author can resist , for it is the reward of his labours . 
When the foundation stone is laid , the architect appears with his plans , and struts for an hour before the public eye . 
To say truth , I had no sooner finished reading this little book in proof , than I was seized upon by a distressing apprehension . 
I wonder , would a negative be found enticing ? for , from the negative point of view , I flatter myself this volume has a certain stamp . 
I really do not know where my head can have been . 
I seem to have forgotten all that makes it glorious to be man . 
'Tis an omission that renders the book philosophically unimportant but I am in hopes the eccentricity may please in frivolous circles . 
To the friend who accompanied me I owe many thanks already , indeed I wish I owed him nothing else but at this moment I feel towards him an almost exaggerated tenderness . 
He , at least , will become my reader if it were only to follow his own travels alongside of mine . 
R. L. S. ANTWERP TO BOOM WE made a great stir in Antwerp Docks . 
A stevedore and a lot of dock porters took up the two canoes , and ran with them for the slip . 
A crowd of children followed cheering . 
The CIGARETTE went off in a splash and a bubble of small breaking water . 
Next moment the ARETHUSA was after her . 
A steamer was coming down , men on the paddle box shouted hoarse warnings , the stevedore and his porters were bawling from the quay . 
But in a stroke or two the canoes were away out in the middle of the Scheldt , and all steamers , and stevedores , and other 'long shore vanities were left behind . 
The sun shone brightly the tide was making four jolly miles an hour the wind blew steadily , with occasional squalls . 
But my doubts were not of long duration and in five minutes you will not be surprised to learn that I had tied my sheet . 
It is certainly easier to smoke with the sheet fastened but I had never before weighed a comfortable pipe of tobacco against an obvious risk , and gravely elected for the comfortable pipe . 
It is a commonplace , that we cannot answer for ourselves before we have been tried . 
But it is not so common a reflection , and surely more consoling , that we usually find ourselves a great deal braver and better than we thought . 
I believe this is every one's experience but an apprehension that they may belie themselves in the future prevents mankind from trumpeting this cheerful sentiment abroad . 
But we are all for tootling on the sentimental flute in literature and not a man among us will go to the head of the march to sound the heady drums . 
It was agreeable upon the river . 
A barge or two went past laden with hay . 
Reeds and willows bordered the stream and cattle and grey venerable horses came and hung their mild heads over the embankment . 
Here and there was a pleasant village among trees , with a noisy shipping yard here and there a villa in a lawn . 
This gave a kind of haziness to our intercourse . 
As for the Hotel de la Navigation , I think it is the worst feature of the place . 
For though handsome lads , they were all barnacled . 
She spoke to us very fluently in her jargon , asked us information as to the manners of the present day in England , and obligingly corrected us when we attempted to answer . 
But as we were dealing with a woman , perhaps our information was not so much thrown away as it appeared . 
The sex likes to pick up knowledge and yet preserve its superiority . 
It is good policy , and almost necessary in the circumstances . 
If a man finds a woman admire him , were it only for his acquaintance with geography , he will begin at once to build upon the admiration . 
It is only by unintermittent snubbing that the pretty ones can keep us in our place . 
Men , as Miss Howe or Miss Harlowe would have said , 'are such ENCROACHERS . 
It is no use for a man to take to the woods we know him St . 
Anthony tried the same thing long ago , and had a pitiful time of it by all accounts . 
There is nothing so encouraging as the spectacle of self sufficiency . 
'Tis to fail in life , but to fail with what a grace ! That is not lost which is not regretted . 
The water of the canal stood at about the drinking temperature of tea and under this cold aspersion , the surface was covered with steam . 
A good breeze rustled and shivered in the rows of trees that bordered the canal . 
The leaves flickered in and out of the light in tumultuous masses . 
It seemed sailing weather to eye and ear but down between the banks , the wind reached us only in faint and desultory puffs . 
There was hardly enough to steer by . 
Progress was intermittent and unsatisfactory . 
A jocular person , of marine antecedents , hailed us from the tow path with a 'C'EST VITE , MAIS C'EST LONG . 
The canal was busy enough . 
Of all the creatures of commercial enterprise , a canal barge is by far the most delightful to consider . 
There should be many contented spirits on board , for such a life is both to travel and to stay at home . 
He may take his afternoon walk in some foreign country on the banks of the canal , and then come home to dinner at his own fireside . 
There is not enough exercise in such a life for any high measure of health but a high measure of health is only necessary for unhealthy people . 
The slug of a fellow , who is never ill nor well , has a quiet time of it in life , and dies all the easier . 
I am sure I would rather be a bargee than occupy any position under heaven that required attendance at an office . 
There are few callings , I should say , where a man gives up less of his liberty in return for regular meals . 
It is not easy to see why a bargee should ever die . 
Half way between Willebroek and Villevorde , in a beautiful reach of canal like a squire's avenue , we went ashore to lunch . 
There were two eggs , a junk of bread , and a bottle of wine on board the ARETHUSA and two eggs and an Etna cooking apparatus on board the CIGARETTE . 
We sat as close about the Etna as we could . 
The spirits burned with great ostentation the grass caught flame every minute or two , and had to be trodden out and before long , there were several burnt fingers of the party . 
We made shift to roast the other two , by putting them close to the burning spirits and that with better success . 
And then we uncorked the bottle of wine , and sat down in a ditch with our canoe aprons over our knees . 
From this point of view , even egg A LA PAPIER offered by way of food may pass muster as a sort of accessory to the fun . 
It is almost unnecessary to mention that when lunch was over and we got aboard again and made sail , the wind promptly died away . 
It was a fine , green , fat landscape or rather a mere green water lane , going on from village to village . 
Things had a settled look , as in places long lived in . 
Crop headed children spat upon us from the bridges as we went below , with a true conservative feeling . 
But even more conservative were the fishermen , intent upon their floats , who let us go by without one glance . 
They perched upon sterlings and buttresses and along the slope of the embankment , gently occupied . 
They were indifferent , like pieces of dead nature . 
They did not move any more than if they had been fishing in an old Dutch print . 
The leaves fluttered , the water lapped , but they continued in one stay like so many churches established by law . 
You might have trepanned every one of their innocent heads , and found no more than so much coiled fishing line below their skulls . 
At the last lock , just beyond Villevorde , there was a lock mistress who spoke French comprehensibly , and told us we were still a couple of leagues from Brussels . 
At the same place , the rain began again . 
It fell in straight , parallel lines and the surface of the canal was thrown up into an infinity of little crystal fountains . 
There were no beds to be had in the neighbourhood . 
Nothing for it but to lay the sails aside and address ourselves to steady paddling in the rain . 
I seem to have seen something of the same effect in engravings opulent landscapes , deserted and overhung with the passage of storm . 
And throughout we had the escort of a hooded cart , which trotted shabbily along the tow path , and kept at an almost uniform distance in our wake . 
THE ROYAL SPORT NAUTIQUE THE rain took off near Laeken . 
But the sun was already down the air was chill and we had scarcely a dry stitch between the pair of us . 
Nay , now we found ourselves near the end of the Allee Verte , and on the very threshold of Brussels , we were confronted by a serious difficulty . 
The shores were closely lined by canal boats waiting their turn at the lock . 
Nowhere was there any convenient landing place nowhere so much as a stable yard to leave the canoes in for the night . 
We scrambled ashore and entered an ESTAMINET where some sorry fellows were drinking with the landlord . 
One of the sorry fellows came to the rescue . 
Sure enough there was the slip in the corner of the basin and at the top of it two nice looking lads in boating clothes . 
The ARETHUSA addressed himself to these . 
The name was quite an introduction . 
Half a dozen other young men came out of a boat house bearing the superscription ROYAL SPORT NAUTIQUE , and joined in the talk . 
They were all very polite , voluble , and enthusiastic and their discourse was interlarded with English boating terms , and the names of English boat builders and English clubs . 
I do not know , to my shame , any spot in my native land where I should have been so warmly received by the same number of people . 
We were English boating men , and the Belgian boating men fell upon our necks . 
I wonder if French Huguenots were as cordially greeted by English Protestants when they came across the Channel out of great tribulation . 
And in the meanwhile we were led upstairs by our new found brethren , for so more than one of them stated the relationship , and made free of their lavatory . 
This one lent us soap , that one a towel , a third and fourth helped us to undo our bags . 
And all the time such questions , such assurances of respect and sympathy ! I declare I never knew what glory was before . 
'Yes , yes , the ROYAL SPORT NAUTIQUE is the oldest club in Belgium . 
'You must leave all your wet things to be dried . 
'O ! ENTRE FRERES ! In any boat house in England we should find the same . 
'EN ANGLETERRE , VOUS EMPLOYEZ DES SLIDING SEATS , N'EST CE PAS ? 'We are all employed in commerce during the day but in the evening , VOYEZ VOUS , NOUS SOMMES SERIEUX . 
They were all employed over the frivolous mercantile concerns of Belgium during the day but in the evening they found some hours for the serious concerns of life . 
I may have a wrong idea of wisdom , but I think that was a very wise remark . 
People connected with literature and philosophy are busy all their days in getting rid of second hand notions and false standards . 
And these Royal Nautical Sportsmen had the distinction still quite legible in their hearts . 
They had still those clean perceptions of what is nice and nasty , what is interesting and what is dull , which envious old gentlemen refer to as illusions . 
The nightmare illusion of middle age , the bear's hug of custom gradually squeezing the life out of a man's soul , had not yet begun for these happy starred young Belgians . 
They still knew that the interest they took in their business was a trifling affair compared to their spontaneous , long suffering affection for nautical sports . 
To know what you prefer , instead of humbly saying Amen to what the world tells you you ought to prefer , is to have kept your soul alive . 
And for certain the one is a great deal better for the health . 
There should be nothing so much a man's business as his amusements . 
Nothing but money grubbing can be put forward to the contrary no one but Mammon , the least erected spirit that fell From Heaven , durst risk a word in answer . 
When we had changed our wet clothes and drunk a glass of pale ale to the Club's prosperity , one of their number escorted us to an hotel . 
He would not join us at our dinner , but he had no objection to a glass of wine . 
Enthusiasm is very wearing and I begin to understand why prophets were unpopular in Judaea , where they were best known . 
For three stricken hours did this excellent young man sit beside us to dilate on boats and boat races and before he left , he was kind enough to order our bedroom candles . 
I call it his subject but I think it was he who was subjected . 
The ARETHUSA , who holds all racing as a creature of the devil , found himself in a pitiful dilemma . 
He durst not own his ignorance for the honour of Old England , and spoke away about English clubs and English oarsmen whose fame had never before come to his ears . 
Several times , and , once above all , on the question of sliding seats , he was within an ace of exposure . 
I could see my friend perspiring in his chair whenever that particular topic came up . 
And there was yet another proposal which had the same effect on both of us . 
was a Royal Nautical Sportsman . 
And if we would only wait until the Sunday , this infernal paddler would be so condescending as to accompany us on our next stage . 
Neither of us had the least desire to drive the coursers of the sun against Apollo . 
When the young man was gone , we countermanded our candles , and ordered some brandy and water . 
The great billows had gone over our head . 
The Royal Nautical Sportsmen were as nice young fellows as a man would wish to see , but they were a trifle too young and a thought too nautical for us . 
In short , we had recourse to flight . 
It seemed ungrateful , but we tried to make that good on a card loaded with sincere compliments . 
And indeed it was no time for scruples we seemed to feel the hot breath of the champion on our necks . 
To pass the frontier , even in a train , is a difficult matter for the ARETHUSA . 
He is somehow or other a marked man for the official eye . 
Wherever he journeys , there are the officers gathered together . 
Treaties are solemnly signed , foreign ministers , ambassadors , and consuls sit throned in state from China to Peru , and the Union Jack flutters on all the winds of heaven . 
He is a born British subject , yet he has never succeeded in persuading a single official of his nationality . 
For the life of me I cannot understand it . 
I too have been knolled to church , and sat at good men's feasts but I bear no mark of it . 
I am as strange as a Jack Indian to their official spectacles . 
I might come from any part of the globe , it seems , except from where I do . 
My ancestors have laboured in vain , and the glorious Constitution cannot protect me in my walks abroad . 
It is a great thing , believe me , to present a good normal type of the nation you belong to . 
I was sorry to give way but I wanted to get to Maubeuge . 
Maubeuge is a fortified town , with a very good inn , the GRAND CERF . 
It seemed to be inhabited principally by soldiers and bagmen at least , these were all that we saw , except the hotel servants . 
There was nothing to do , nothing to see . 
We had good meals , which was a great matter but that was all . 
The CIGARETTE was nearly taken up upon a charge of drawing the fortifications a feat of which he was hopelessly incapable . 
But I have no doubt they help to keep up a good spirit at home . 
It is a great thing if you can persuade people that they are somehow or other partakers in a mystery . 
It makes them feel bigger . 
It is an odd thing , how happily two people , if there are two , can live in a place where they have no acquaintance . 
I think the spectacle of a whole life in which you have no part paralyses personal desire . 
You are content to become a mere spectator . 
It would task language to say how placidly you behold all this . 
In a place where you have taken some root , you are provoked out of your indifference you have a hand in the game your friends are fighting with the army . 
Perhaps , in a very short time , you would be one no longer . 
These externals are as dead to us as so many formalities , and speak a dead language in our eyes and ears . 
They have no more meaning than an oath or a salutation . 
One person in Maubeuge , however , showed me something more than his outside . 
That was the driver of the hotel omnibus a mean enough looking little man , as well as I can remember but with a spark of something human in his soul . 
He had heard of our little journey , and came to me at once in envious sympathy . 
How he longed to travel ! he told me . 
How he longed to be somewhere else , and see the round world before he went into the grave ! 'Here I am , said he . 
'I drive to the station . 
And then I drive back again to the hotel . 
And so on every day and all the week round . 
My God , is that life ? I could not say I thought it was for him . 
He pressed me to tell him where I had been , and where I hoped to go and as he listened , I declare the fellow sighed . 
Might not this have been a brave African traveller , or gone to the Indies after Drake ? But it is an evil age for the gypsily inclined among men . 
He who can sit squarest on a three legged stool , he it is who has the wealth and glory . 
I think I hear you say that it is a respectable position to drive an omnibus ? Very well . 
Respectability is a very good thing in its way , but it does not rise superior to all considerations . 
ON THE SAMBRE CANALISED TO QUARTES ABOUT three in the afternoon the whole establishment of the GRAND CERF accompanied us to the water's edge . 
The man of the omnibus was there with haggard eyes . 
The wind was contrary , and blew in furious gusts nor were the aspects of nature any more clement than the doings of the sky . 
For we passed through a stretch of blighted country , sparsely covered with brush , but handsomely enough diversified with factory chimneys . 
We landed in a soiled meadow among some pollards , and there smoked a pipe in a flaw of fair weather . 
But the wind blew so hard , we could get little else to smoke . 
There were no natural objects in the neighbourhood , but some sordid workshops . 
A group of children headed by a tall girl stood and watched us from a little distance all the time we stayed . 
I heartily wonder what they thought of us . 
At Hautmont , the lock was almost impassable the landing place being steep and high , and the launch at a long distance . 
Near a dozen grimy workmen lent us a hand . 
They refused any reward and , what is much better , refused it handsomely , without conveying any sense of insult . 
'It is a way we have in our countryside , said they . 
And a very becoming way it is . 
In Scotland , where also you will get services for nothing , the good people reject your money as if you had been trying to corrupt a voter . 
When people take the trouble to do dignified acts , it is worth while to take a little more , and allow the dignity to be common to all concerned . 
After Hautmont , the sun came forth again and the wind went down and a little paddling took us beyond the ironworks and through a delectable land . 
On either hand , meadows and orchards bordered , with a margin of sedge and water flowers , upon the river . 
There was never any prospect sometimes a hill top with its trees would look over the nearest hedgerow , just to make a middle distance for the sky but that was all . 
The heaven was bare of clouds . 
The atmosphere , after the rain , was of enchanting purity . 
The river doubled among the hillocks , a shining strip of mirror glass and the dip of the paddles set the flowers shaking along the brink . 
In the meadows wandered black and white cattle fantastically marked . 
A moment after I heard a loud plunge , and , turning my head , saw the clergyman struggling to shore . 
The bank had given way under his feet . 
Besides the cattle , we saw no living things except a few birds and a great many fishermen . 
These sat along the edges of the meadows , sometimes with one rod , sometimes with as many as half a score . 
They seemed stupefied with contentment and when we induced them to exchange a few words with us about the weather , their voices sounded quiet and far away . 
I hope , since the afternoon was so lovely , that they were one and all rewarded and that a silver booty went home in every basket for the pot . 
Some of my friends would cry shame on me for this but I prefer a man , were he only an angler , to the bravest pair of gills in all God's waters . 
I do not affect fishes unless when cooked in sauce whereas an angler is an important piece of river scenery , and hence deserves some recognition among canoeists . 
The Sambre turned so industriously to and fro among his little hills , that it was past six before we drew near the lock at Quartes . 
There were some children on the tow path , with whom the CIGARETTE fell into a chaffing talk as they ran along beside us . 
It was in vain that I warned him . 
For my own part , whenever anything was addressed to me , I smiled gently and shook my head as though I were an inoffensive person inadequately acquainted with French . 
For indeed I have had such experience at home , that I would sooner meet many wild animals than a troop of healthy urchins . 
But I was doing injustice to these peaceable young Hainaulters . 
The children had been joined by this time by a young woman and a mild lad who had lost an arm and this gave me more security . 
When I let slip my first word or so in French , a little girl nodded her head with a comical grown up air . 
'Ah , you see , she said , 'he understands well enough now he was just making believe . 
And the little group laughed together very good naturedly . 
They were much impressed when they heard we came from England and the little girl proffered the information that England was an island 'and a far way from here BIEN LOIN D'ICI . 
'Ay , you may say that , a far way from here , said the lad with one arm . 
I was as nearly home sick as ever I was in my life they seemed to make it such an incalculable distance to the place where I first saw the day . 
They admired the canoes very much . 
And I observed one piece of delicacy in these children , which is worthy of record . 
From the boats they turned to my costume . 
They could not make enough of my red sash and my knife filled them with awe . 
'They make them like that in England , said the boy with one arm . 
I was glad he did not know how badly we make them in England now a days . 
'They are for people who go away to sea , he added , 'and to defend one's life against great fish . 
I felt I was becoming a more and more romantic figure to the little group at every word . 
And so I suppose I was . 
And if my feathers were not very fine in themselves , they were all from over seas . 
One thing in my outfit , however , tickled them out of all politeness and that was the bemired condition of my canvas shoes . 
I suppose they were sure the mud at any rate was a home product . 
displayed her own sabots in competition and I wish you could have seen how gracefully and merrily she did it . 
The young woman's milk can , a great amphora of hammered brass , stood some way off upon the sward . 
I was glad of an opportunity to divert public attention from myself , and return some of the compliments I had received . 
So I admired it cordially both for form and colour , telling them , and very truly , that it was as beautiful as gold . 
The things were plainly the boast of the countryside . 
PONT SUR SAMBRE WE ARE PEDLARS THE CIGARETTE returned with good news . 
There were beds to be had some ten minutes' walk from where we were , at a place called Pont . 
We stowed the canoes in a granary , and asked among the children for a guide . 
The circle at once widened round us , and our offers of reward were received in dispiriting silence . 
The owner of the granary came to our assistance , singled out one little fellow and threatened him with corporalities or I suspect we should have had to find the way for ourselves . 
As it was , he was more frightened at the granary man than the strangers , having perhaps had some experience of the former . 
But I fancy his little heart must have been going at a fine rate for he kept trotting at a respectful distance in front , and looking back at us with scared eyes . 
Not otherwise may the children of the young world have guided Jove or one of his Olympian compeers on an adventure . 
A miry lane led us up from Quartes with its church and bickering windmill . 
The hinds were trudging homewards from the fields . 
A brisk little woman passed us by . 
It was notable that none of the tired men took the trouble to reply . 
Our conductor soon led us out of the lane and across country . 
The sun had gone down , but the west in front of us was one lake of level gold . 
The path wandered a while in the open , and then passed under a trellis like a bower indefinitely prolonged . 
I never saw the CIGARETTE in such an idyllic frame of mind . 
He waxed positively lyrical in praise of country scenes . 
Away on the left , a gaunt tower stood in the middle of the street . 
The inn to which we had been recommended at Quartes was full , or else the landlady did not like our looks . 
I ought to say , that with our long , damp india rubber bags , we presented rather a doubtful type of civilisation like rag and bone men , the CIGARETTE imagined . 
'These gentlemen are pedlars ? CES MESSIEURS SONT DES MARCHANDS ? asked the landlady . 
But the butcher was flitting , and all his beds were taken down . 
Or else he didn't like our look . 
As a parting shot , we had 'These gentlemen are pedlars ? It began to grow dark in earnest . 
We could no longer distinguish the faces of the people who passed us by with an inarticulate good evening . 
And the householders of Pont seemed very economical with their oil for we saw not a single window lighted in all that long village . 
I believe it is the longest village in the world but I daresay in our predicament every pace counted three times over . 
We were much cast down when we came to the last auberge and looking in at the dark door , asked timidly if we could sleep there for the night . 
A female voice assented in no very friendly tones . 
We clapped the bags down and found our way to chairs . 
The place was in total darkness , save a red glow in the chinks and ventilators of the stove . 
But now the landlady lit a lamp to see her new guests I suppose the darkness was what saved us another expulsion for I cannot say she looked gratified at our appearance . 
We were in a large bare apartment , adorned with two allegorical prints of Music and Painting , and a copy of the law against public drunkenness . 
On one side , there was a bit of a bar , with some half a dozen bottles . 
'These gentlemen are pedlars ? she asked sharply . 
And that was all the conversation forthcoming . 
We began to think we might be pedlars after all . 
I never knew a population with so narrow a range of conjecture as the innkeepers of Pont sur Sambre . 
But manners and bearing have not a wider currency than bank notes . 
You have only to get far enough out of your beat , and all your accomplished airs will go for nothing . 
These Hainaulters could see no difference between us and the average pedlar . 
At least it seemed a good account of the profession in France , that even before such judges we could not beat them at our own weapons . 
At last we were called to table . 
supped off a single plate of some sort of bread berry , some potatoes in their jackets , a small cup of coffee sweetened with sugar candy , and one tumbler of swipes . 
The landlady , her son , and the lass aforesaid , took the same . 
Our meal was quite a banquet by comparison . 
You see what it is to be a gentleman I beg your pardon , what it is to be a pedlar . 
He has in his hedge quarters somewhat the same pre eminency as the man who takes a private parlour in an hotel . 
We were displeased enough with our fare . 
Particularly the CIGARETTE , for I tried to make believe that I was amused with the adventure , tough beefsteak and all . 
According to the Lucretian maxim , our steak should have been flavoured by the look of the other people's bread berry . 
But we did not find it so in practice . 
I had not seen such a thing done since the greedy boy at school with his birthday cake . 
It was odious enough to witness , I could remember and I had never thought to play the part myself . 
But there again you see what it is to be a pedlar . 
There is no doubt that the poorer classes in our country are much more charitably disposed than their superiors in wealth . 
And I fancy it must arise a great deal from the comparative indistinction of the easy and the not so easy in these ranks . 
A workman or a pedlar cannot shutter himself off from his less comfortable neighbours . 
If he treats himself to a luxury , he must do it in the face of a dozen who cannot . 
And what should more directly lead to charitable thoughts ? . 
But at a certain stage of prosperity , as in a balloon ascent , the fortunate person passes through a zone of clouds , and sublunary matters are thenceforward hidden from his view . 
He sees nothing but the heavenly bodies , all in admirable order , and positively as good as new . 
He finds himself surrounded in the most touching manner by the attentions of Providence , and compares himself involuntarily with the lilies and the skylarks . 
Indeed , he did not deserve the name of pedlar at all he was a travelling merchant . 
He was a lean , nervous flibbertigibbet of a man , with something the look of an actor , and something the look of a horse jockey . 
It was notable that the child was many degrees better dressed than either of the parents . 
We were informed he was already at a boarding school but the holidays having just commenced , he was off to spend them with his parents on a cruise . 
The landlady , fired with motherly emulation , awoke her own little girl and the two children were confronted . 
Master Gilliard looked at her for a moment , very much as a dog looks at his own reflection in a mirror before he turns away . 
He was at that time absorbed in the galette . 
His mother seemed crestfallen that he should display so little inclination towards the other sex and expressed her disappointment with some candour and a very proper reference to the influence of years . 
The little girl looked longer and with more interest , probably because she was in her own house , while he was a traveller and accustomed to strange sights . 
And besides there was no galette in the case with her . 
All the time of supper , there was nothing spoken of but my young lord . 
The two parents were both absurdly fond of their child . 
No schoolboy could have talked more of the holidays which were just beginning and less of the black school time which must inevitably follow after . 
She showed , with a pride perhaps partly mercantile in origin , his pockets preposterously swollen with tops and whistles and string . 
When she called at a house in the way of business , it appeared he kept her company and whenever a sale was made , received a sou out of the profit . 
Indeed they spoiled him vastly , these two good people . 
But they had an eye to his manners for all that , and reproved him for some little faults in breeding , which occurred from time to time during supper . 
On the whole , I was not much hurt at being taken for a pedlar . 
In all essential things we and the Gilliards cut very much the same figure in the ale house kitchen . 
I daresay , the rest of the company thought us dying with envy , though in no ill sense , to be as far up in the profession as the new arrival . 
And of one thing I am sure that every one thawed and became more humanised and conversible as soon as these innocent people appeared upon the scene . 
I would not very readily trust the travelling merchant with any extravagant sum of money but I am sure his heart was in the right place . 
'Are you going to sleep alone ? asked the servant lass . 
'There's little fear of that , says Master Gilliard . 
'You sleep alone at school , objected his mother . 
'Come , come , you must be a man . 
There certainly was , as he phrased it , very little fear that he should sleep alone for there was but one bed for the trio . 
There was not so much as a glass of water . 
But the window would open , by good fortune . 
The young moon outside shone very clearly over Pont sur Sambre , and down upon the ale house where all we pedlars were abed . 
ON THE SAMBRE CANALISED TO LANDRECIES IN the morning , when we came downstairs , the landlady pointed out to us two pails of water behind the street door . 
'VOILA DE L'EAU POUR VOUS DEBARBOUILLER , says she . 
Meanwhile the child was letting off Waterloo crackers all over the floor . 
I wonder , by the bye , what they call Waterloo crackers in France perhaps Austerlitz crackers . 
There is a great deal in the point of view . 
Pont itself is on the river , but whereas it is ten minutes' walk from Quartes by dry land , it is six weary kilometres by water . 
We left our bags at the inn , and walked to our canoes through the wet orchards unencumbered . 
Some of the children were there to see us off , but we were no longer the mysterious beings of the night before . 
A departure is much less romantic than an unexplained arrival in the golden evening . 
Although we might be greatly taken at a ghost's first appearance , we should behold him vanish with comparative equanimity . 
The good folk of the inn at Pont , when we called there for the bags , were overcome with marvelling . 
These gentlemen pedlars , indeed ! Now you see their quality too late . 
The whole day was showery , with occasional drenching plumps . 
We were soaked to the skin , then partially dried in the sun , then soaked once more . 
It looked solemn along the river side , drooping its boughs into the water , and piling them up aloft into a wall of leaves . 
And surely of all smells in the world , the smell of many trees is the sweetest and most fortifying . 
Usually the resin of the fir predominates . 
I wish our way had always lain among woods . 
Trees are the most civil society . 
I think I feel a thousand squirrels leaping from bough to bough in my vast mausoleum and the birds and the winds merrily coursing over its uneven , leafy surface . 
Alas ! the forest of Mormal is only a little bit of a wood , and it was but for a little way that we skirted by its boundaries . 
And the rest of the time the rain kept coming in squirts and the wind in squalls , until one's heart grew weary of such fitful , scolding weather . 
It was odd how the showers began when we had to carry the boats over a lock , and must expose our legs . 
This is a sort of thing that readily begets a personal feeling against nature . 
There seems no reason why the shower should not come five minutes before or five minutes after , unless you suppose an intention to affront you . 
The CIGARETTE had a mackintosh which put him more or less above these contrarieties . 
But I had to bear the brunt uncovered . 
I began to remember that nature was a woman . 
My companion , in a rosier temper , listened with great satisfaction to my Jeremiads , and ironically concurred . 
A vivacious old man , whom I take to have been the devil , drew near and questioned me about our journey . 
In the fulness of my heart , I laid bare our plans before him . 
He said it was the silliest enterprise that ever he heard of . 
I was so astounded at the man's malice , that I could only stare at him in silence . 
A tree would never have spoken to me like this . 
At last I got out with some words . 
We had come from Antwerp already , I told him , which was a good long way and we should do the rest in spite of him . 
Yes , I said , if there were no other reason , I would do it now , just because he had dared to say we could not . 
The pleasant old gentleman looked at me sneeringly , made an allusion to my canoe , and marched of , waggling his head . 
I said he was a good enough fellow , but had this absurd voyage on the head . 
'O no , no , said one , 'you must not say that it is not absurd it is very courageous of him . 
I believe these were a couple of angels sent to give me heart again . 
I was a good deal mortified but my temper had suffered , it is a fact . 
After having been a pedlar for one night , and a butt for the elements during the whole of the next day , these comfortable circumstances fell on my heart like sunshine . 
It turned out we were to see more of Landrecies than we expected for the weather next day was simply bedlamite . 
It is not the place one would have chosen for a day's rest for it consists almost entirely of fortifications . 
Within the ramparts , a few blocks of houses , a long row of barracks , and a church , figure , with what countenance they may , as the town . 
The only public buildings that had any interest for us were the hotel and the CAFE . 
But we visited the church . 
But as neither of us had ever heard of that military hero , we bore the associations of the spot with fortitude . 
In all garrison towns , guard calls , and REVEILLES , and such like , make a fine romantic interlude in civic business . 
But in a shadow of a town like Landrecies , with little else moving , these points of war made a proportionate commotion . 
Indeed , they were the only things to remember . 
It was just the place to hear the round going by at night in the darkness , with the solid tramp of men marching , and the startling reverberations of the drum . 
The drum , at any rate , from its martial voice and notable physiological effect , nay , even from its cumbrous and comical shape , stands alone among the instruments of noise . 
Generally a man is never more uselessly employed than when he is at this trick of bastinadoing asses' hide . 
We know what effect it has in life , and how your dull ass will not mend his pace with beating . 
But although we had been somewhat indifferent to Landrecies , Landrecies had not been indifferent to us . 
All day , we learned , people had been running out between the squalls to visit our two boats . 
Hundreds of persons , so said report , although it fitted ill with our idea of the town hundreds of persons had inspected them where they lay in a coal shed . 
We were becoming lions in Landrecies , who had been only pedlars the night before in Pont . 
He gave us his card and invited us to sup with him on the spot , very neatly , very gracefully , as Frenchmen can do these things . 
The house of the Judge was close by it was a well appointed bachelor's establishment , with a curious collection of old brass warming pans upon the walls . 
Some of these were most elaborately carved . 
It seemed a picturesque idea for a collector . 
If they could only speak , at what absurd , indecorous , and tragical scenes had they not been present ! The wine was excellent . 
When we made the Judge our compliments upon a bottle , 'I do not give it you as my worst , said he . 
I wonder when Englishmen will learn these hospitable graces . 
They are worth learning they set off life , and make ordinary moments ornamental . 
There were two other Landrecienses present . 
One was the collector of something or other , I forget what the other , we were told , was the principal notary of the place . 
So it happened that we all five more or less followed the law . 
At this rate , the talk was pretty certain to become technical . 
The CIGARETTE expounded the Poor Laws very magisterially . 
And a little later I found myself laying down the Scots Law of Illegitimacy , of which I am glad to say I know nothing . 
The collector and the notary , who were both married men , accused the Judge , who was a bachelor , of having started the subject . 
He deprecated the charge , with a conscious , pleased air , just like all the men I have ever seen , be they French or English . 
This was the highest water mark of popular favour on the whole cruise . 
Landrecies had been a long while asleep before we returned to the hotel and the sentries on the ramparts were already looking for daybreak . 
SAMBRE AND OISE CANAL CANAL BOATS NEXT day we made a late start in the rain . 
The Judge politely escorted us to the end of the lock under an umbrella . 
We had now brought ourselves to a pitch of humility in the matter of weather , not often attained except in the Scottish Highlands . 
A rag of blue sky or a glimpse of sunshine set our hearts singing and when the rain was not heavy , we counted the day almost fair . 
Long lines of barges lay one after another along the canal many of them looking mighty spruce and shipshape in their jerkin of Archangel tar picked out with white and green . 
Some carried gay iron railings , and quite a parterre of flower pots . 
It was like visiting a menagerie , the CIGARETTE remarked . 
These little cities by the canal side had a very odd effect upon the mind . 
It was to be the most leisurely of progresses , now on a swift river at the tail of a steam boat , now waiting horses for days together on some inconsiderable junction . 
We should be seen pottering on deck in all the dignity of years , our white beards falling into our laps . 
We were ever to be busied among paint pots so that there should be no white fresher , and no green more emerald than ours , in all the navy of the canals . 
There should be books in the cabin , and tobacco jars , and some old Burgundy as red as a November sunset and as odorous as a violet in April . 
All this , simmering in my mind , set me wishing to go aboard one of these ideal houses of lounging . 
I had plenty to choose from , as I coasted one after another , and the dogs bayed at me for a vagrant . 
At last I saw a nice old man and his wife looking at me with some interest , so I gave them good day and pulled up alongside . 
If you ventured on such an experiment in England you would get a slap in the face at once . 
The life would be shown to be a vile one , not without a side shot at your better fortune . 
Now , what I like so much in France is the clear unflinching recognition by everybody of his own luck . 
They all know on which side their bread is buttered , and take a pleasure in showing it to others , which is surely the better part of religion . 
And they scorn to make a poor mouth over their poverty , which I take to be the better part of manliness . 
I would not say such a thing to the Duke of Westminster . 
And the French are full of this spirit of independence . 
Perhaps it is the result of republican institutions , as they call them . 
Much more likely it is because there are so few people really poor , that the whiners are not enough to keep each other in countenance . 
The people on the barge were delighted to hear that I admired their state . 
They understood perfectly well , they told me , how Monsieur envied them . 
Without doubt Monsieur was rich and in that case he might make a canal boat as pretty as a villa JOLI COMME UN CHATEAU . 
And with that they invited me on board their own water villa . 
They apologised for their cabin they had not been rich enough to make it as it ought to be . 
'The fire should have been here , at this side . 
'Then one might have a writing table in the middle books and' 'all . 
It would be quite coquettish CA SERAIT TOUT A FAIT COQUET . 
And he looked about him as though the improvements were already made . 
Madame had three birds in a cage . 
They were no great thing , she explained . 
Fine birds were so dear . 
It was , in the Scots phrase , a good hearing , and put me in good humour with the world . 
They began to ask about our voyage . 
You should have seen how they sympathised . 
They seemed half ready to give up their barge and follow us . 
But these CANALETTI are only gypsies semi domesticated . 
The semi domestication came out in rather a pretty form . 
O then all was well . 
She could not have wives left alone at home but since there were no wives in the question , we were doing the best we could . 
'To see about one in the world , said the husband , 'IL N'Y A QUE CA there is nothing else worth while . 
A man , look you , who sticks in his own village like a bear , he went on , very well , he sees nothing . 
And then death is the end of all . 
And he has seen nothing . 
Madame reminded her husband of an Englishman who had come up this canal in a steamer . 
'Perhaps Mr. Moens in the YTENE , I suggested . 
'That's it , assented the husband . 
'He had his wife and family with him , and servants . 
He came ashore at all the locks and asked the name of the villages , whether from boatmen or lock keepers and then he wrote , wrote them down . 
Oh , he wrote enormously ! I suppose it was a wager . 
A wager was a common enough explanation for our own exploits , but it seemed an original reason for taking notes . 
We had a shower or two , but light and flying . 
The air was clean and sweet among all these green fields and green things growing . 
There was not a touch of autumn in the weather . 
And when , at Vadencourt , we launched from a little lawn opposite a mill , the sun broke forth and set all the leaves shining in the valley of the Oise . 
The river was swollen with the long rains . 
From Vadencourt all the way to Origny , it ran with ever quickening speed , taking fresh heart at each mile , and racing as though it already smelt the sea . 
The water was yellow and turbulent , swung with an angry eddy among half submerged willows , and made an angry clatter along stony shores . 
The course kept turning and turning in a narrow and well timbered valley . 
Now the river would approach the side , and run griding along the chalky base of the hill , and show us a few open colza fields among the trees . 
Now it would skirt the garden walls of houses , where we might catch a glimpse through a doorway , and see a priest pacing in the chequered sunlight . 
On these different manifestations the sun poured its clear and catholic looks . 
The shadows lay as solid on the swift surface of the stream as on the stable meadows . 
The light sparkled golden in the dancing poplar leaves , and brought the hills into communion with our eyes . 
And all the while the river never stopped running or took breath and the reeds along the whole valley stood shivering from top to toe . 
founded on the shivering of the reeds . 
There are not many things in nature more striking to man's eye . 
Perhaps they are only a cold , and no wonder , standing waist deep in the stream . 
Or perhaps they have never got accustomed to the speed and fury of the river's flux , or the miracle of its continuous body . 
The canoe was like a leaf in the current . 
It took it up and shook it , and carried it masterfully away , like a Centaur carrying off a nymph . 
To keep some command on our direction required hard and diligent plying of the paddle . 
The river was in such a hurry for the sea ! Every drop of water ran in a panic , like as many people in a frightened crowd . 
But the reeds had to stand where they were and those who stand still are always timid advisers . 
As for us , we could have shouted aloud . 
If this lively and beautiful river were , indeed , a thing of death's contrivance , the old ashen rogue had famously outwitted himself with us . 
I was living three to the minute . 
I was scoring points against him every stroke of my paddle , every turn of the stream . 
I have rarely had better profit of my life . 
For I think we may look upon our little private war with death somewhat in this light . 
And above all , where instead of simply spending , he makes a profitable investment for some of his money , when it will be out of risk of loss . 
So every bit of brisk living , and above all when it is healthful , is just so much gained upon the wholesale filcher , death . 
We shall have the less in our pockets , the more in our stomach , when he cries stand and deliver . 
Towards afternoon we got fairly drunken with the sunshine and the exhilaration of the pace . 
We could no longer contain ourselves and our content . 
The canoes were too small for us we must be out and stretch ourselves on shore . 
And so in a green meadow we bestowed our limbs on the grass , and smoked deifying tobacco and proclaimed the world excellent . 
It was the last good hour of the day , and I dwell upon it with extreme complacency . 
On one side of the valley , high up on the chalky summit of the hill , a ploughman with his team appeared and disappeared at regular intervals . 
like a toy Burns who should have just ploughed up the Mountain Daisy . 
He was the only living thing within view , unless we are to count the river . 
On the other side of the valley a group of red roofs and a belfry showed among the foliage . 
Thence some inspired bell ringer made the afternoon musical on a chime of bells . 
There was something very sweet and taking in the air he played and we thought we had never heard bells speak so intelligibly , or sing so melodiously , as these . 
It must have been to some such measure that the spinners and the young maids sang , 'Come away , Death , in the Shakespearian Illyria . 
I could have asked the bell ringer for his blessing , good , sedate old man , who swung the rope so gently to the time of his meditations . 
At last the bells ceased , and with their note the sun withdrew . 
The piece was at an end shadow and silence possessed the valley of the Oise . 
We took to the paddle with glad hearts , like people who have sat out a noble performance and returned to work . 
The river was more dangerous here it ran swifter , the eddies were more sudden and violent . 
All the way down we had had our fill of difficulties . 
Sometimes it was a weir which could be shot , sometimes one so shallow and full of stakes that we must withdraw the boats from the water and carry them round . 
But the chief sort of obstacle was a consequence of the late high winds . 
Every two or three hundred yards a tree had fallen across the river , and usually involved more than another in its fall . 
Often there was free water at the end , and we could steer round the leafy promontory and hear the water sucking and bubbling among the twigs . 
Often , again , when the tree reached from bank to bank , there was room , by lying close , to shoot through underneath , canoe and all . 
This made a fine series of accidents in the day's career , and kept us aware of ourselves . 
I do not know how long it was before I scrambled on to the tree to which I was left clinging , but it was longer than I cared about . 
My thoughts were of a grave and almost sombre character , but I still clung to my paddle . 
You can never know , till you try it , what a dead pull a river makes against a man . 
Death himself had me by the heels , for this was his last ambuscado , and he must now join personally in the fray . 
And still I held to my paddle . 
At last I dragged myself on to my stomach on the trunk , and lay there a breathless sop , with a mingled sense of humour and injustice . 
A poor figure I must have presented to Burns upon the hill top with his team . 
But there was the paddle in my hand . 
On my tomb , if ever I have one , I mean to get these words inscribed 'He clung to his paddle . 
He had offered his services to haul me out , but as I was then already on my elbows , I had declined , and sent him down stream after the truant ARETHUSA . 
The stream was too rapid for a man to mount with one canoe , let alone two , upon his hands . 
So I crawled along the trunk to shore , and proceeded down the meadows by the river side . 
I was so cold that my heart was sore . 
I had now an idea of my own why the reeds so bitterly shivered . 
I could have given any of them a lesson . 
The CIGARETTE remarked facetiously that he thought I was 'taking exercise' as I drew near , until he made out for certain that I was only twittering with cold . 
I had a rub down with a towel , and donned a dry suit from the india rubber bag . 
But I was not my own man again for the rest of the voyage . 
I had a queasy sense that I wore my last dry clothes upon my body . 
The struggle had tired me and perhaps , whether I knew it or not , I was a little dashed in spirit . 
The devouring element in the universe had leaped out against me , in this green valley quickened by a running stream . 
The bells were all very pretty in their way , but I had heard some of the hollow notes of Pan's music . 
Would the wicked river drag me down by the heels , indeed ? and look so beautiful all the time ? Nature's good humour was only skin deep after all . 
And while the bells made merry in the sunshine , all the world with his dog was out shooting among the beets and colza . 
In the morning a hawker and his wife went down the street at a foot pace , singing to a very slow , lamentable music 'O FRANCE , MES AMOURS . 
It brought everybody to the door and when our landlady called in the man to buy the words , he had not a copy of them left . 
She was not the first nor the second who had been taken with the song . 
There is something very pathetic in the love of the French people , since the war , for dismal patriotic music making . 
I have watched a forester from Alsace while some one was singing 'LES MALHEURS DE LA FRANCE , at a baptismal party in the neighbourhood of Fontainebleau . 
He arose from the table and took his son aside , close by where I was standing . 
'Listen , listen , he said , bearing on the boy's shoulder , 'and remember this , my son . 
A little after he went out into the garden suddenly , and I could hear him sobbing in the darkness . 
The hawker's little book , which I purchased , was a curious mixture . 
There you might read how the wood cutter gloried in his axe , and the gardener scorned to be ashamed of his spade . 
It was not very well written , this poetry of labour , but the pluck of the sentiment redeemed what was weak or wordy in the expression . 
The martial and the patriotic pieces , on the other hand , were tearful , womanish productions one and all . 
The poet had passed under the Caudine Forks he sang for an army visiting the tomb of its old renown , with arms reversed and sang not of victory , but of death . 
There was a number in the hawker's collection called 'Conscrits Francais , which may rank among the most dissuasive war lyrics on record . 
It would not be possible to fight at all in such a spirit . 
The bravest conscript would turn pale if such a ditty were struck up beside him on the morning of battle and whole regiments would pile their arms to its tune . 
If Fletcher of Saltoun is in the right about the influence of national songs , you would say France was come to a poor pass . 
But the thing will work its own cure , and a sound hearted and courageous people weary at length of snivelling over their disasters . 
Already Paul Deroulede has written some manly military verses . 
One feels as if one would like to trust Deroulede with something . 
It will be happy if he can so far inoculate his fellow countrymen that they may be trusted with their own future . 
And in the meantime , here is an antidote to 'French Conscripts' and much other doleful versification . 
We had left the boats over night in the custody of one whom we shall call Carnival . 
I did not properly catch his name , and perhaps that was not unfortunate for him , as I am not in a position to hand him down with honour to posterity . 
To this person's premises we strolled in the course of the day , and found quite a little deputation inspecting the canoes . 
There was a stout gentleman with a knowledge of the river , which he seemed eager to impart . 
There was a very elegant young gentleman in a black coat , with a smattering of English , who led the talk at once to the Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race . 
And then there were three handsome girls from fifteen to twenty and an old gentleman in a blouse , with no teeth to speak of , and a strong country accent . 
Quite the pick of Origny , I should suppose . 
The CIGARETTE had some mysteries to perform with his rigging in the coach house so I was left to do the parade single handed . 
I found myself very much of a hero whether I would or not . 
The girls were full of little shudderings over the dangers of our journey . 
And I thought it would be ungallant not to take my cue from the ladies . 
My mishap of yesterday , told in an off hand way , produced a deep sensation . 
It was Othello over again , with no less than three Desdemonas and a sprinkling of sympathetic senators in the background . 
Never were the canoes more flattered , or flattered more adroitly . 
'It is like a violin , cried one of the girls in an ecstasy . 
'I thank you for the word , mademoiselle , said I. 'All the more since there are people who call out to me that it is like a coffin . 
'Oh ! but it is really like a violin . 
It is finished like a violin , she went on . 
'And polished like a violin , added a senator . 
'One has only to stretch the cords , concluded another , 'and then tum tumty tum' he imitated the result with spirit . 
'You are very fortunate , answered the CIGARETTE politely . 
And the old gentleman , having apparently gained his point , stole away again . 
We all got very friendly together . 
The girls proposed to start with us on the morrow , if you please ! And , jesting apart , every one was anxious to know the hour of our departure . 
Towards evening , we went abroad again to post some letters . 
Suddenly we sighted the three girls standing , with a fourth sister , in front of a shop on the wide selvage of the roadway . 
We had been very merry with them a little while ago , to be sure . 
There were the four girls on the same spot but now four backs were turned to us , very upright and conscious . 
Corporal Modesty had given the word of command , and the well disciplined picket had gone right about face like a single person . 
It was too high up , too large , and too steady for a kite and as it was dark , it could not be a star . 
It was a balloon , we learned , which had left Saint Quentin at half past five that evening . 
Mighty composedly the majority of the grown people took it . 
But we were English , and were soon running up the hill with the best . 
Being travellers ourselves in a small way , we would fain have seen these other travellers alight . 
The spectacle was over by the time we gained the top of the hill . 
All the gold had withered out of the sky , and the balloon had disappeared . 
Roadside trees and disappointed sightseers , returning through the meadows , stood out in black against a margin of low red sunset . 
The lamps were lighted , and the salads were being made in Origny Sainte Benoite by the river . 
ORIGNY SAINTE BENOITE THE COMPANY AT TABLE ALTHOUGH we came late for dinner , the company at table treated us to sparkling wine . 
'That is how we are in France , said one . 
'Those who sit down with us are our friends . 
They were three altogether , and an odd trio to pass the Sunday with . 
Two of them were guests like ourselves , both men of the north . 
The other was a quiet , subdued person , blond and lymphatic and sad , with something the look of a Dane 'TRISTES TETES DE DANOIS ! as Gaston Lafenestre used to say . 
I must not let that name go by without a word for the best of all good fellows now gone down into the dust . 
Never again shall his kind smile put peace among all races of artistic men , and make the Englishman at home in France . 
Never more shall the sheep , who were not more innocent at heart than he , sit all unconsciously for his industrious pencil . 
But now his mother sits alone by the side of Fontainebleau woods , where he gathered mushrooms in his hardy and penurious youth . 
There may be better pictures in the National Gallery but not a painter among the generations had a better heart . 
Precious in the sight of the Lord of humanity , the Psalms tell us , is the death of his saints . 
There is something lacking among the oaks of Fontainebleau and when the dessert comes in at Barbizon , people look to the door for a figure that is gone . 
On Saturday , describing some paltry adventure at a duck hunt , he broke a plate into a score of fragments . 
Whenever he made a remark , he would look all round the table with his chin raised , and a spark of green light in either eye , seeking approval . 
Indeed , that was what the honest fellow could not do . 
On the most trifling matter his eyes kindled , his fist visited the table , and his voice rolled abroad in changeful thunder . 
I never saw such a petard of a man I think the devil was in him . 
Indeed , we saw it very well . 
God forbid that ever I should find him handling a gun in Paris streets ! That will not be a good moment for the general public . 
I thought his two phrases very much represented the good and evil of his class , and to some extent of his country . 
It is a strong thing to say what one is , and not be ashamed of it even although it be in doubtful taste to repeat the statement too often in one evening . 
I should not admire it in a duke , of course but as times go , the trait is honourable in a workman . 
On the other hand , it is not at all a strong thing to put one's reliance upon logic and our own logic particularly , for it is generally wrong . 
We never know where we are to end , if once we begin following words or doctors . 
Reasons are as plentiful as blackberries and , like fisticuffs , they serve impartially with all sides . 
Doctrines do not stand or fall by their proofs , and are only logical in so far as they are cleverly put . 
An able controversialist no more than an able general demonstrates the justice of his cause . 
The conversation opened with details of the day's shooting . 
When all the sportsmen of a village shoot over the village territory PRO INDIVISO , it is plain that many questions of etiquette and priority must arise . 
'Here now , cried the landlord , brandishing a plate , 'here is a field of beet root . 
The ruddy Northman told some tales of his own prowess in keeping order notably one of a Marquis . 
'Marquis , I said , 'if you take another step I fire upon you . 
You have committed a dirtiness , Marquis . 
Whereupon , it appeared , the Marquis touched his cap and withdrew . 
'It was well done , he said . 
'He did all that he could . 
He admitted he was wrong . 
And then oath upon oath . 
He was no marquis lover either , but he had a sense of justice in him , this proletarian host of ours . 
From the matter of hunting , the talk veered into a general comparison of Paris and the country . 
The proletarian beat the table like a drum in praise of Paris . 
'What is Paris ? Paris is the cream of France . 
There are no Parisians it is you and I and everybody who are Parisians . 
A man has eighty chances per cent . 
to get on in the world in Paris . 
And he drew a vivid sketch of the workman in a den no bigger than a dog hutch , making articles that were to go all over the world . 
'EH BIEN , QUOI , C'EST MAGNIFIQUE , CA ! cried he . 
The sad Northman interfered in praise of a peasant's life he thought Paris bad for men and women 'CENTRALISATION , said he But the landlord was at his throat in a moment . 
It was all logical , he showed him and all magnificent . 
'What a spectacle ! What a glance for an eye ! And the dishes reeled upon the table under a cannonade of blows . 
Seeking to make peace , I threw in a word in praise of the liberty of opinion in France . 
I could hardly have shot more amiss . 
There was an instant silence , and a great wagging of significant heads . 
They did not fancy the subject , it was plain but they gave me to understand that the sad Northman was a martyr on account of his views . 
'Ask him a bit , said they . 
And with that he dropped his eyes , and seemed to consider the subject at an end . 
Our curiosity was mightily excited at this . 
He was breaking his fast on white wine and raw onions , in order to keep up the character of martyr , I conclude . 
We had a long conversation , and made out what we wanted in spite of his reserve . 
But here was a truly curious circumstance . 
It seems possible for two Scotsmen and a Frenchman to discuss during a long half hour , and each nationality have a different idea in view throughout . 
It was not till the very end that we discovered his heresy had been political , or that he suspected our mistake . 
The terms and spirit in which he spoke of his political beliefs were , in our eyes , suited to religious beliefs . 
Nothing could be more characteristic of the two countries . 
And perhaps the misconception is typical of many others that may never be cleared up not only between people of different race , but between those of different sex . 
As for our friend's martyrdom , he was a Communist , or perhaps only a Communard , which is a very different thing and had lost one or more situations in consequence . 
I think he had also been rejected in marriage but perhaps he had a sentimental way of considering business which deceived me . 
He was a mild , gentle creature , anyway and I hope he has got a better situation , and married a more suitable wife since then . 
DOWN THE OISE TO MOY CARNIVAL notoriously cheated us at first . 
The thing was palpably absurd but I paid up , and at once dropped all friendliness of manner , and kept him in his place as an inferior with freezing British dignity . 
He wished me to drink with him , but I would none of his drinks . 
In spite of the false scent we had thrown out the day before , there must have been fifty people about the bridge . 
We were as pleasant as we could be with all but Carnival . 
We said good bye , shaking hands with the old gentleman who knew the river and the young gentleman who had a smattering of English but never a word for Carnival . 
Poor Carnival ! here was a humiliation . 
Let us hope it will be a lesson to him . 
I would not have mentioned Carnival's peccadillo had not the thing been so uncommon in France . 
This , for instance , was the only case of dishonesty or even sharp practice in our whole voyage . 
We talk very much about our honesty in England . 
It is a good rule to be on your guard wherever you hear great professions about a very little piece of virtue . 
What with current and paddling , we were flashing along like swallows . 
It was no joke to keep up with us upon the woody shore . 
But the girls picked up their skirts , as if they were sure they had good ankles , and followed until their breath was out . 
Not Diana herself , although this was more of a Venus after all , could have done a graceful thing more gracefully . 
'Come back again ! she cried and all the others echoed her and the hills about Origny repeated the words , 'Come back . 
But the river had us round an angle in a twinkling , and we were alone with the green trees and running water . 
Come back ? There is no coming back , young ladies , on the impetuous stream of life . 
'The merchant bows unto the seaman's star , The ploughman from the sun his season takes . 
And we must all set our pocket watches by the clock of fate . 
There is a headlong , forthright tide , that bears away man with his fancies like a straw , and runs fast in time and space . 
It is full of curves like this , your winding river of the Oise and lingers and returns in pleasant pastorals and yet , rightly thought upon , never returns at all . 
In these upper reaches it was still in a prodigious hurry for the sea . 
Sometimes it had to serve mills and being still a little river , ran very dry and shallow in the meanwhile . 
We had to put our legs out of the boat , and shove ourselves off the sand of the bottom with our feet . 
And still it went on its way singing among the poplars , and making a green valley in the world . 
After a good woman , and a good book , and tobacco , there is nothing so agreeable on earth as a river . 
A difficult business , too for the detours it had to make are not to be counted . 
The geographers seem to have given up the attempt for I found no map represent the infinite contortion of its course . 
A fact will say more than any of them . 
, we might almost as well have been standing still . 
We lunched on a meadow inside a parallelogram of poplars . 
The leaves danced and prattled in the wind all round about us . 
The river hurried on meanwhile , and seemed to chide at our delay . 
The river knew where it was going not so we the less our hurry , where we found good quarters and a pleasant theatre for a pipe . 
At that hour , stockbrokers were shouting in Paris Bourse for two or three per cent . 
but we minded them as little as the sliding stream , and sacrificed a hecatomb of minutes to the gods of tobacco and digestion . 
Hurry is the resource of the faithless . 
Where a man can trust his own heart , and those of his friends , to morrow is as good as to day . 
And if he die in the meanwhile , why then , there he dies , and the question is solved . 
We had to take to the canal in the course of the afternoon because , where it crossed the river , there was , not a bridge , but a siphon . 
If it had not been for an excited fellow on the bank , we should have paddled right into the siphon , and thenceforward not paddled any more . 
We met a man , a gentleman , on the tow path , who was much interested in our cruise . 
He was quite feverish at the end , and pleaded demoniacal possession . 
was a pleasant little village , gathered round a chateau in a moat . 
The air was perfumed with hemp from neighbouring fields . 
At the Golden Sheep we found excellent entertainment . 
German shells from the siege of La Fere , Nurnberg figures , gold fish in a bowl , and all manner of knick knacks , embellished the public room . 
The landlady was a stout , plain , short sighted , motherly body , with something not far short of a genius for cookery . 
She had a guess of her excellence herself . 
After every dish was sent in , she would come and look on at the dinner for a while , with puckered , blinking eyes . 
'C'EST BON , N'EST CE PAS ? she would say and when she had received a proper answer , she disappeared into the kitchen . 
That common French dish , partridge and cabbages , became a new thing in my eyes at the Golden Sheep and many subsequent dinners have bitterly disappointed me in consequence . 
Sweet was our rest in the Golden Sheep at Moy . 
LA FERE OF CURSED MEMORY WE lingered in Moy a good part of the day , for we were fond of being philosophical , and scorned long journeys and early starts on principle . 
The place , moreover , invited to repose . 
An imperturbable demeanour comes from perfect patience . 
Quiet minds cannot be perplexed or frightened , but go on in fortune or misfortune at their own private pace , like a clock during a thunderstorm . 
We made a very short day of it to La Fere but the dusk was falling , and a small rain had begun before we stowed the boats . 
La Fere is a fortified town in a plain , and has two belts of rampart . 
Between the first and the second extends a region of waste land and cultivated patches . 
Here and there along the wayside were posters forbidding trespass in the name of military engineering . 
At last , a second gateway admitted us to the town itself . 
Lighted windows looked gladsome , whiffs of comfortable cookery came abroad upon the air . 
The town was full of the military reserve , out for the French Autumn Manoeuvres , and the reservists walked speedily and wore their formidable great coats . 
It was a fine night to be within doors over dinner , and hear the rain upon the windows . 
The CIGARETTE and I could not sufficiently congratulate each other on the prospect , for we had been told there was a capital inn at La Fere . 
The inn bore the name of some woodland animal , stag , or hart , or hind , I forget which . 
But I shall never forget how spacious and how eminently habitable it looked as we drew near . 
The carriage entry was lighted up , not by intention , but from the mere superfluity of fire and candle in the house . 
A rattle of many dishes came to our ears we sighted a great field of table cloth the kitchen glowed like a forge and smelt like a garden of things to eat . 
There was no doubt about the landlady , however there she was , heading her army , a flushed , angry woman , full of affairs . 
Her I asked politely too politely , thinks the CIGARETTE if we could have beds she surveying us coldly from head to foot . 
'You will find beds in the suburb , she remarked . 
'We are too busy for the like of you . 
What a terrible convulsion of nature was that which followed in the landlady's face ! She made a run at us , and stamped her foot . 
'Out with you out of the door ! she screeched . 
Often and often have I planned what I should do if such a misadventure happened to me again . 
And nothing is easier to plan . 
But to put in execution , with the heart boiling at the indignity ? Try it try it only once and tell me what you did . 
It is all very fine to talk about tramps and morality . 
, or one brutal rejection from an inn door , change your views upon the subject like a course of lectures . 
I will give most respectable men a fortnight of such a life , and then I will offer them twopence for what remains of their morality . 
There was no crime complete enough to express my disapproval of human institutions . 
As for the CIGARETTE , I never knew a man so altered . 
'We have been taken for pedlars again , said he . 
'Good God , what it must be to be a pedlar in reality ! He particularised a complaint for every joint in the landlady's body . 
Timon was a philanthropist alongside of him . 
And then , when he was at the top of his maledictory bent , he would suddenly break away and begin whimperingly to commiserate the poor . 
'I hope to God , he said , and I trust the prayer was answered , 'that I shall never be uncivil to a pedlar . 
Was this the imperturbable CIGARETTE ? This , this was he . 
O change beyond report , thought , or belief ! Meantime the heaven wept upon our heads and the windows grew brighter as the night increased in darkness . 
People gave us directions , which we followed as best we could , generally with the effect of bringing us out again upon the scene of our disgrace . 
But right at the other end , the house next the town gate was full of light and bustle . 
'BAZIN , AUBERGISTE , LOGE A PIED , was the sign . 
'A LA CROIX DE MALTE . 
Bazin was a tall man , running to fat soft spoken , with a delicate , gentle face . 
We asked him to share our wine but he excused himself , having pledged reservists all day long . 
This was a very different type of the workman innkeeper from the bawling disputatious fellow at Origny . 
He also loved Paris , where he had worked as a decorative painter in his youth . 
There were such opportunities for self instruction there , he said . 
And if any one has read Zola's description of the workman's marriage party visiting the Louvre , they would do well to have heard Bazin by way of antidote . 
He had delighted in the museums in his youth . 
'One sees there little miracles of work , he said 'that is what makes a good workman it kindles a spark . 
We asked him how he managed in La Fere . 
'I am married , he said , 'and I have my pretty children . 
But frankly , it is no life at all . 
From morning to night I pledge a pack of good enough fellows who know nothing . 
It faired as the night went on , and the moon came out of the clouds . 
We sat in front of the door , talking softly with Bazin . 
Madame Bazin came out after a while she was tired with her day's work , I suppose and she nestled up to her husband and laid her head upon his breast . 
He had his arm about her , and kept gently patting her on the shoulder . 
I think Bazin was right , and he was really married . 
Of how few people can the same be said ! Little did the Bazins know how much they served us . 
We were charged for candles , for food and drink , and for the beds we slept in . 
But there was nothing in the bill for the husband's pleasant talk nor for the pretty spectacle of their married life . 
And there was yet another item unchanged . 
For these people's politeness really set us up again in our own esteem . 
We had a thirst for consideration the sense of insult was still hot in our spirits and civil usage seemed to restore us to our position in the world . 
How little we pay our way in life ! Although we have our purses continually in our hand , the better part of service goes still unrewarded . 
But I like to fancy that a grateful spirit gives as good as it gets . 
In wide sweeps , and with a swift and equable gallop , the ceaseless stream of water visits and makes green the fields . 
Kine , and horses , and little humorous donkeys , browse together in the meadows , and come down in troops to the river side to drink . 
They make a strange feature in the landscape above all when they are startled , and you see them galloping to and fro with their incongruous forms and faces . 
It gives a feeling as of great , unfenced pampas , and the herds of wandering nations . 
There were hills in the distance upon either hand and on one side , the river sometimes bordered on the wooded spurs of Coucy and St . 
The artillery were practising at La Fere and soon the cannon of heaven joined in that loud play . 
Two continents of cloud met and exchanged salvos overhead while all round the horizon we could see sunshine and clear air upon the hills . 
What with the guns and the thunder , the herds were all frightened in the Golden Valley . 
It had a martial sound , like cavalry charges . 
And altogether , as far as the ears are concerned , we had a very rousing battle piece performed for our amusement . 
Only , here and there , we passed by a village or a ferry , and some wondering child upon the bank would stare after us until we turned the corner . 
I daresay we continued to paddle in that child's dreams for many a night after . 
Sun and shower alternated like day and night , making the hours longer by their variety . 
When the showers were heavy , I could feel each drop striking through my jersey to my warm skin and the accumulation of small shocks put me nearly beside myself . 
I decided I should buy a mackintosh at Noyon . 
The CIGARETTE was greatly amused by these ebullitions . 
It gave him something else to look at besides clay banks and willows . 
As the streets drew near to this presiding genius , through the market place under the Hotel de Ville , they grew emptier and more composed . 
Blank walls and shuttered windows were turned to the great edifice , and grass grew on the white causeway . 
'Put off thy shoes from off thy feet , for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground . 
I have seldom looked on the east end of a church with more complete sympathy . 
As it flanges out in three wide terraces and settles down broadly on the earth , it looks like the poop of some great old battle ship . 
Hollow backed buttresses carry vases , which figure for the stern lanterns . 
There is a roll in the ground , and the towers just appear above the pitch of the roof , as though the good ship were bowing lazily over an Atlantic swell . 
At any moment it might be a hundred feet away from you , climbing the next billow . 
At any moment a window might open , and some old admiral thrust forth a cocked hat , and proceed to take an observation . 
The cathedral and the river are probably the two oldest things for miles around and certainly they have both a grand old age . 
The Sacristan took us to the top of one of the towers , and showed us the five bells hanging in their loft . 
I find I never weary of great churches . 
It is my favourite kind of mountain scenery . 
I could never fathom how a man dares to lift up his voice to preach in a cathedral . 
As I sat outside of the hotel in the course of the afternoon , the sweet groaning thunder of the organ floated out of the church like a summons . 
Four or five priests and as many choristers were singing MISERERE before the high altar when I went in . 
There was no congregation but a few old women on chairs and old men kneeling on the pavement . 
The priests and choristers arose from their knees and followed after , singing 'Ave Mary' as they went . 
In this order they made the circuit of the cathedral , passing twice before me where I leaned against a pillar . 
The priest who seemed of most consequence was a strange , down looking old man . 
He kept mumbling prayers with his lips but as he looked upon me darkling , it did not seem as if prayer were uppermost in his heart . 
The little girls were timid and grave . 
As they footed slowly up the aisle , each one took a moment's glance at the Englishman and the big nun who played marshal fairly stared him out of countenance . 
As for the choristers , from first to last they misbehaved as only boys can misbehave and cruelly marred the performance with their antics . 
I understood a great deal of the spirit of what went on . 
Indeed it would be difficult not to understand the MISERERE , which I take to be the composition of an atheist . 
If it ever be a good thing to take such despondency to heart , the MISERERE is the right music , and a cathedral a fit scene . 
One other circumstance distressed me . 
I could bear a MISERERE myself , having had a good deal of open air exercise of late but I wished the old people somewhere else . 
A person up in years can generally do his own MISERERE for himself although I notice that such an one often prefers JUBILATE DEO for his ordinary singing . 
On the whole , I was greatly solemnised . 
I can still see the faces of the priests as if they were at my elbow , and hear AVE MARIA , ORA PRO NOBIS , sounding through the church . 
All Noyon is blotted out for me by these superior memories and I do not care to say more about the place . 
If ever I join the Church of Rome , I shall stipulate to be Bishop of Noyon on the Oise . 
That was like to be our case , the day we left Noyon . 
We were so sadly drenched that the landlady lit a few sticks in the chimney for our comfort there we sat in a steam of vapour , lamenting our concerns . 
The husband donned a game bag and strode out to shoot the wife sat in a far corner watching us . 
I think we were worth looking at . 
Talking of La Fere put us talking of the reservists . 
'Reservery , said he , 'seems a pretty mean way to spend ones autumn holiday . 
'About as mean , returned I dejectedly , 'as canoeing . 
'These gentlemen travel for their pleasure ? asked the landlady , with unconscious irony . 
The scales fell from our eyes . 
Another wet day , it was determined , and we put the boats into the train . 
The weather took the hint . 
That was our last wetting . 
At the same time , the river began to give us a better outlook into the country . 
The banks were not so high , the willows disappeared from along the margin , and pleasant hills stood all along its course and marked their profile on the sky . 
In a little while the canal , coming to its last lock , began to discharge its water houses on the Oise so that we had no lack of company to fear . 
We had never known all this while how much we missed them but it gave us a fillip to see the smoke from their chimneys . 
A little below this junction we made another meeting of yet more account . 
For there we were joined by the Aisne , already a far travelled river and fresh out of Champagne . 
Here ended the adolescence of the Oise this was his marriage day thenceforward he had a stately , brimming march , conscious of his own dignity and sundry dams . 
He became a tranquil feature in the scene . 
The trees and towns saw themselves in him , as in a mirror . 
Truly we were coming into halcyon weather upon all accounts , and were floated towards the sea like gentlemen . 
We made Compiegne as the sun was going down a fine profile of a town above the river . 
Over the bridge , a regiment was parading to the drum . 
People loitered on the quay , some fishing , some looking idly at the stream . 
And as the two boats shot in along the water , we could see them pointing them out and speaking one to another . 
We landed at a floating lavatory , where the washer women were still beating the clothes . 
AT COMPIEGNE WE put up at a big , bustling hotel in Compiegne , where nobody observed our presence . 
It was not possible to be an Englishman and avoid a feeling of elation for the men who followed the drums were small , and walked shabbily . 
Each man inclined at his own angle , and jolted to his own convenience , as he went . 
There was nothing of the superb gait with which a regiment of tall Highlanders moves behind its music , solemn and inevitable , like a natural phenomenon . 
I have never forgotten that girl and I think she very nearly deserves a statue . 
To call her a young lady , with all its niminy associations , would be to offer her an insult . 
But though French soldiers show to ill advantage on parade , on the march they are gay , alert , and willing like a troop of fox hunters . 
I remember once seeing a company pass through the forest of Fontainebleau , on the Chailly road , between the Bas Breau and the Reine Blanche . 
One fellow walked a little before the rest , and sang a loud , audacious marching song . 
The rest bestirred their feet , and even swung their muskets in time . 
A young officer on horseback had hard ado to keep his countenance at the words . 
You never saw anything so cheerful and spontaneous as their gait schoolboys do not look more eagerly at hare and hounds and you would have thought it impossible to tire such willing marchers . 
My great delight in Compiegne was the town hall . 
I doted upon the town hall . 
It is a monument of Gothic insecurity , all turreted , and gargoyled , and slashed , and bedizened with half a score of architectural fancies . 
Some of the niches are gilt and painted and in a great square panel in the centre , in black relief on a gilt ground , Louis XII . 
rides upon a pacing horse , with hand on hip and head thrown back . 
So rides for ever , on the front of the town hall , the good king Louis XII . 
, the father of his people . 
The centre figure has a gilt breast plate the two others wear gilt trunk hose and they all three have elegant , flapping hats like cavaliers . 
As the quarter approaches , they turn their heads and look knowingly one to the other and then , KLING go the three hammers on three little bells below . 
The hour follows , deep and sonorous , from the interior of the tower and the gilded gentlemen rest from their labours with contentment . 
There is something highly absurd in the exposition of such toys to the outrages of winter on a housetop . 
They would be more in keeping in a glass case before a Nurnberg clock . 
In Compiegne post office a great packet of letters awaited us and the authorities were , for this occasion only , so polite as to hand them over upon application . 
In some ways , our journey may be said to end with this letter bag at Compiegne . 
We had partly come home from that moment . 
No one should have any correspondence on a journey it is bad enough to have to write but the receipt of letters is the death of all holiday feeling . 
'Out of my country and myself I go . 
I wish to take a dive among new conditions for a while , as into another element . 
After my journey is over , I shall not fail to read your admirable letters with the attention they deserve . 
You tug the string , and I feel that I am a tethered bird . 
You pursue me all over Europe with the little vexations that I came away to avoid . 
They had taken so little note of us that I hardly thought they would have condescended on a bill . 
No one cared to know about us . 
KLING went they on the bells for the half past six as we went by . 
I took it kind of them to make me this parting compliment they never were in better form , not even at noon upon a Sunday . 
There was no one to see us off but the early washerwomen early and late who were already beating the linen in their floating lavatory on the river . 
They were very merry and matutinal in their ways plunged their arms boldly in , and seemed not to feel the shock . 
It would be dispiriting to me , this early beginning and first cold dabble of a most dispiriting day's work . 
But I believe they would have been as unwilling to change days with us as we could be to change with them . 
They crowded to the door to watch us paddle away into the thin sunny mists upon the river and shouted heartily after us till we were through the bridge . 
CHANGED TIMES THERE is a sense in which those mists never rose from off our journey and from that time forth they lie very densely in my note book . 
As long as the Oise was a small rural river , it took us near by people's doors , and we could hold a conversation with natives in the riparian fields . 
But now that it had grown so wide , the life along shore passed us by at a distance . 
It was the same difference as between a great public highway and a country by path that wanders in and out of cottage gardens . 
We now lay in towns , where nobody troubled us with questions we had floated into civilised life , where people pass without salutation . 
In these waters we were no longer strange birds , and nobody supposed we had travelled farther than from the last town . 
The company in one boat actually thought they recognised me for a neighbour . 
Was there ever anything more wounding ? All the romance had come down to that . 
You get entertainment pretty much in proportion as you give . 
And here is one reason of a dozen , why the world is dull to dull persons . 
In our earlier adventures there was generally something to do , and that quickened us . 
Even the showers of rain had a revivifying effect , and shook up the brain from torpor . 
I have stupefied myself in this way more than once indeed , I dearly love the feeling but I never had it to the same degree as when paddling down the Oise . 
It was the apotheosis of stupidity . 
The less I saw of the novel , the better I liked it a pregnant reflection . 
I have always been fond of maps , and can voyage in an atlas with the greatest enjoyment . 
But we thumbed our charts , on these evenings , with the blankest unconcern . 
We cared not a fraction for this place or that . 
We stared at the sheet as children listen to their rattle and read the names of towns or villages to forget them again at once . 
We had no romance in the matter there was nobody so fancy free . 
About one thing we were mightily taken up , and that was eating . 
I think I made a god of my belly . 
I remember dwelling in imagination upon this or that dish till my mouth watered and long before we got in for the night my appetite was a clamant , instant annoyance . 
Sometimes we paddled alongside for a while and whetted each other with gastronomical fancies as we went . 
I suppose none of us recognise the great part that is played in life by eating and drinking . 
But there is a romance about the matter after all . 
Probably the table has more devotees than love and I am sure that food is much more generally entertaining than scenery . 
Do you give in , as Walt Whitman would say , that you are any the less immortal for that ? The true materialism is to be ashamed of what we are . 
To detect the flavour of an olive is no less a piece of human perfection than to find beauty in the colours of the sunset . 
We took in , at a glance , the larger features of the scene and beheld , with half an eye , bloused fishers and dabbling washerwomen on the bank . 
But these luminous intervals were only partially luminous . 
A little more of us was called into action , but never the whole . 
The central bureau of nerves , what in some moods we call Ourselves , enjoyed its holiday without disturbance , like a Government Office . 
The great wheels of intelligence turned idly in the head , like fly wheels , grinding no grist . 
I have gone on for half an hour at a time , counting my strokes and forgetting the hundreds . 
I flatter myself the beasts that perish could not underbid that , as a low form of consciousness . 
There was one odd piece of practical metaphysics which accompanied what I may call the depth , if I must not call it the intensity , of my abstraction . 
What philosophers call ME and NOT ME , EGO and NON EGO , preoccupied me whether I would or no . 
There was less ME and more NOT ME than I was accustomed to expect . 
I had dwindled into quite a little thing in a corner of myself . 
I was isolated in my own skull . 
Thoughts presented themselves unbidden they were not my thoughts , they were plainly some one else's and I considered them like a part of the landscape . 
It may be best figured by supposing yourself to get dead drunk , and yet keep sober to enjoy it . 
I have a notion that open air labourers must spend a large portion of their days in this ecstatic stupor , which explains their high composure and endurance . 
It was the farthest piece of travel accomplished . 
DOWN THE OISE CHURCH INTERIORS WE made our first stage below Compiegne to Pont Sainte Maxence . 
I was abroad a little after six the next morning . 
The air was biting , and smelt of frost . 
In an open place a score of women wrangled together over the day's market and the noise of their negotiation sounded thin and querulous like that of sparrows on a winter's morning . 
The rare passengers blew into their hands , and shuffled in their wooden shoes to set the blood agog . 
The streets were full of icy shadow , although the chimneys were smoking overhead in golden sunshine . 
If you wake early enough at this season of the year , you may get up in December to break your fast in June . 
It was scarcely so cold in the church as it was without , but it looked colder . 
The white nave was positively arctic to the eye and the tawdriness of a continental altar looked more forlorn than usual in the solitude and the bleak air . 
Two priests sat in the chancel , reading and waiting penitents and out in the nave , one very old woman was engaged in her devotions . 
She went from chair to chair , from altar to altar , circumnavigating the church . 
To each shrine she dedicated an equal number of beads and an equal length of time . 
Like a prudent capitalist with a somewhat cynical view of the commercial prospect , she desired to place her supplications in a great variety of heavenly securities . 
She would risk nothing on the credit of any single intercessor . 
She was as dead an old woman as ever I saw no more than bone and parchment , curiously put together . 
Her eyes , with which she interrogated mine , were vacant of sense . 
It depends on what you call seeing , whether you might not call her blind . 
Perhaps she had known love perhaps borne children , suckled them and given them pet names . 
It was not without a gulp that I escaped into the streets and the keen morning air . 
Otherwise , between sick children and discontented old folk , we might be put out of all conceit of life . 
I had need of all my cerebral hygiene during that day's paddle the old devotee stuck in my throat sorely . 
But I was soon in the seventh heaven of stupidity and knew nothing but that somebody was paddling a canoe , while I was counting his strokes and forgetting the hundreds . 
I could look up my history books , if you were very anxious , and tell you a date or two for it figured rather largely in the English wars . 
At least there were the girls about the garden and here were we on the river and there was more than one handkerchief waved as we went by . 
The church at Creil was a nondescript place in the inside , splashed with gaudy lights from the windows , and picked out with medallions of the Dolorous Way . 
The thing was neatly executed , and would have made the delight of a party of boys on the water side . 
But what tickled me was the gravity of the peril to be conjured . 
At Creil , as at Noyon , Saint Joseph seemed a favourite saint on the score of punctuality . 
Day and hour can be specified and grateful people do not fail to specify them on a votive tablet , when prayers have been punctually and neatly answered . 
Whenever time is a consideration , Saint Joseph is the proper intermediary . 
I took a sort of pleasure in observing the vogue he had in France , for the good man plays a very small part in my religion at home . 
Yet I could not help fearing that , where the Saint is so much commanded for exactitude , he will be expected to be very grateful for his tablet . 
This is foolishness to us Protestants and not of great importance anyway . 
Whether people's gratitude for the good gifts that come to them be wisely conceived or dutifully expressed , is a secondary matter , after all , so long as they feel gratitude . 
The true ignorance is when a man does not know that he has received a good gift , or begins to imagine that he has got it for himself . 
But there was something worse than foolishness placarded in Creil Church . 
Pope Gregory is not so imposing , but he is nearer hand . 
Indulgences , plenary and partial , follow on the performance of the duties of the Association . 
'The partial indulgences are attached to the recitation of the rosary . 
On 'the recitation of the required DIZAINE , a partial indulgence promptly follows . 
There is one more article , however , of happier import . 
'All these indulgences , it appeared , 'are applicable to souls in purgatory . 
They cannot look so merely ugly and mean to the faithful as they do to me . 
I see that as clearly as a proposition in Euclid . 
For these believers are neither weak nor wicked . 
PRECY AND THE MARIONNETTES WE made Precy about sundown . 
The plain is rich with tufts of poplar . 
In a wide , luminous curve , the Oise lay under the hillside . 
A faint mist began to rise and confound the different distances together . 
There was not a sound audible but that of the sheep bells in some meadows by the river , and the creaking of a cart down the long road that descends the hill . 
All of a sudden , we came round a corner , and there , in a little green round the church , was a bevy of girls in Parisian costumes playing croquet . 
We were within sniff of Paris , it seemed . 
And here were females of our own species playing croquet , just as if Precy had been a place in real life , instead of a stage in the fairyland of travel . 
The inn at Precy is the worst inn in France . 
Not even in Scotland have I found worse fare . 
It was kept by a brother and sister , neither of whom was out of their teens . 
We found pieces of loo warm pork among the salad , and pieces of unknown yielding substance in the RAGOUT . 
In the midst of these diversions , bang went a drum past the house , and a hoarse voice began issuing a proclamation . 
It was a man with marionnettes announcing a performance for that evening . 
It was the most absurd contention . 
The show people had set out a certain number of benches and all who sat upon them were to pay a couple of SOUS for the accommodation . 
It certainly would have tried an angel's temper . 
The showman roared from the proscenium he had been all over France , and nowhere , nowhere , 'not even on the borders of Germany , had he met with such misconduct . 
Such thieves and rogues and rascals , as he called them ! And every now and again , the wife issued on another round , and added her shrill quota to the tirade . 
I remarked here , as elsewhere , how far more copious is the female mind in the material of insult . 
The audience laughed in high good humour over the man's declamations but they bridled and cried aloud under the woman's pungent sallies . 
She picked out the sore points . 
She had the honour of the village at her mercy . 
Voices answered her angrily out of the crowd , and received a smarting retort for their trouble . 
There is nobody , under thirty , so dead but his heart will stir a little at sight of a gypsies' camp . 
'We are not cotton spinners all' or , at least , not all through . 
An Englishman has always special facilities for intercourse with French gymnasts for England is the natural home of gymnasts . 
He is a countryman of mine by profession . 
He leaps , like the Belgian boating men , to the notion that I must be an athlete myself . 
But if a man is only so much of an actor that he can stumble through a farce , he is made free of a new order of thoughts . 
He has something else to think about beside the money box . 
He has a pride of his own , and , what is of far more importance , he has an aim before him that he can never quite attain . 
He has gone upon a pilgrimage that will last him his life long , because there is no end to it short of perfection . 
''Tis better to have loved and lost . 
To be even one of the outskirters of art , leaves a fine stamp on a man's countenance . 
I remember once dining with a party in the inn at Chateau Landon . 
Most of them were unmistakable bagmen others well to do peasantry but there was one young fellow in a blouse , whose face stood out from among the rest surprisingly . 
It looked more finished more of the spirit looked out through it it had a living , expressive air , and you could see that his eyes took things in . 
My companion and I wondered greatly who and what he could be . 
He was a wandering violinist . 
A troop of strollers once came to the inn where I was staying , in the department of Seine et Marne . 
'You should see my old woman , said he , and nodded his beery countenance . 
One night they performed in the stable yard , with flaring lamps a wretched exhibition , coldly looked upon by a village audience . 
I gave it to the father he thanked me cordially , and we drank a cup together in the kitchen , talking of roads , and audiences , and hard times . 
When I was going , up got my old stroller , and off with his hat . 
'I am afraid , said he , 'that Monsieur will think me altogether a beggar but I have another demand to make upon him . 
I began to hate him on the spot . 
'We play again to night , he went on . 
'Of course , I shall refuse to accept any more money from Monsieur and his friends , who have been already so liberal . 
But our programme of to night is something truly creditable and I cling to the idea that Monsieur will honour us with his presence . 
It is nearly two years since I saw him first , and indeed I hope I may see him often again . 
'MADERMOISELLE FERRARIO CHANTERA MIGNON OISEAUX LEGERS FRANCE DES FRANCAIS DORMENT LA LE CHATEAU BLEU OU VOULEZ VOUS ALLER ? 'M . 
DE VAUVERSIN MADAME FONTAINE ET M. ROBINET LES PLONGEURS A CHEVAL LE MARI MECONTENT TAIS TOI , GAMIN MON VOISIN L'ORIGINAL HEUREUX COMME CA COMME ON EST TROMPE . 
They made a stage at one end of the SALLE A MANGER . 
He was once an actor in the Chatelet but he contracted a nervous affection from the heat and glare of the footlights , which unfitted him for the stage . 
At this crisis Mademoiselle Ferrario , otherwise Mademoiselle Rita of the Alcazar , agreed to share his wandering fortunes . 
'I could never forget the generosity of that lady , said he . 
He wears trousers so tight that it has long been a problem to all who knew him how he manages to get in and out of them . 
The Maire , a man worth a million of money , sat in the front seat , repeatedly applauding Mlle . 
Ferrario , and yet gave no more than three SOUS the whole evening . 
Local authorities look with such an evil eye upon the strolling artist . 
Alas ! I know it well , who have been myself taken for one , and pitilessly incarcerated on the strength of the misapprehension . 
Once , M. de Vauversin visited a commissary of police for permission to sing . 
The commissary , who was smoking at his ease , politely doffed his hat upon the singer's entrance . 
Commissary , he began , 'I am an artist . 
And on went the commissary's hat again . 
No courtesy for the companions of Apollo ! 'They are as degraded as that , said M. de Vauversin with a sweep of his cigarette . 
But what pleased me most was one outbreak of his , when we had been talking all the evening of the rubs , indignities , and pinchings of his wandering life . 
Some one said , it would be better to have a million of money down , and Mlle . 
Ferrario admitted that she would prefer that mightily . 
'EH BIEN , MOI NON not I , cried De Vauversin , striking the table with his hand . 
I must go about the country gathering coppers and singing nonsense . 
And to know what art is , is to have an interest for ever , such as no burgess can find in his petty concerns . 
TENEZ , MESSIEURS , JE VAIS VOUS LE DIRE it is like a religion . 
Such , making some allowance for the tricks of memory and the inaccuracies of translation , was the profession of faith of M. de Vauversin . 
They performed a piece , called PYRAMUS AND THISBE , in five mortal acts , and all written in Alexandrines fully as long as the performers . 
One marionnette was the king another the wicked counsellor a third , credited with exceptional beauty , represented Thisbe and then there were guards , and obdurate fathers , and walking gentlemen . 
That exception was the comic countryman , a lean marionnette in wooden shoes , who spoke in prose and in a broad PATOIS much appreciated by the audience . 
But the villagers of Precy seemed delighted . 
Indeed , so long as a thing is an exhibition , and you pay to see it , it is nearly certain to amuse . 
BACK TO THE WORLD OF the next two days' sail little remains in my mind , and nothing whatever in my note book . 
The river streamed on steadily through pleasant river side landscapes . 
A symphony in forget me not I think Theophile Gautier might thus have characterised that two days' panorama . 
The sky was blue and cloudless and the sliding surface of the river held up , in smooth places , a mirror to the heaven and the shores . 
The washerwomen hailed us laughingly and the noise of trees and water made an accompaniment to our dozing thoughts , as we fleeted down the stream . 
The great volume , the indefatigable purpose of the river , held the mind in chain . 
It seemed now so sure of its end , so strong and easy in its gait , like a grown man full of determination . 
The surf was roaring for it on the sands of Havre . 
For my own part , slipping along this moving thoroughfare in my fiddle case of a canoe , I also was beginning to grow aweary for my ocean . 
To the civilised man , there must come , sooner or later , a desire for civilisation . 
For so many miles had this fleet and footless beast of burthen charioted our fortunes , that we turned our back upon it with a sense of separation . 
