AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND BY GEORGE MAC DONALD Author of Dealings with Fairies , Ranald Bannerman , etc . 
CHAPTER I THE HAY LOFT I HAVE been asked to tell you about the back of the north wind . 
An old Greek writer mentions a people who lived there , and were so comfortable that they could not bear it any longer , and drowned themselves . 
My story is not the same as his . 
I do not think Herodotus had got the right account of the place . 
I am going to tell you how it fared with a boy who went there . 
He lived in a low room over a coach house and that was not by any means at the back of the north wind , as his mother very well knew . 
For one side of the room was built only of boards , and the boards were so old that you might run a penknife through into the north wind . 
Indeed , I am not sure whether I ought to call it a room at all for it was just a loft where they kept hay and straw and oats for the horses . 
There was hay at his feet and hay at his head , piled up in great trusses to the very roof . 
Indeed it was sometimes only through a little lane with several turnings , which looked as if it had been sawn out for him , that he could reach his bed at all . 
For the stock of hay was , of course , always in a state either of slow ebb or of sudden flow . 
He had not the least idea that the wind got in at a chink in the wall , and blew about him all night . 
For the back of his bed was only of boards an inch thick , and on the other side of them was the north wind . 
Now , as I have already said , these boards were soft and crumbly . 
To be sure , they were tarred on the outside , yet in many places they were more like tinder than timber . 
Up he rose once more , made a fresh stopple of hay , and corked the hole severely . 
But he was hardly down again before pop ! it came on his forehead . 
He gave it up , drew the clothes above his head , and was soon fast asleep . 
Presently , however , he lifted his head and listened . 
Who could that be talking to him ? The wind was rising again , and getting very loud , and full of rushes and whistles . 
He was sure some one was talking and very near him , too , it was . 
But he was not frightened , for he had not yet learned how to be so he sat up and hearkened . 
At last the voice , which , though quite gentle , sounded a little angry , appeared to come from the back of the bed . 
He crept nearer to it , and laid his ear against the wall . 
Then he heard nothing but the wind , which sounded very loud indeed . 
The moment , however , that he moved his head from the wall , he heard the voice again , close to his ear . 
He felt about with his hand , and came upon the piece of paper his mother had pasted over the hole . 
Against this he laid his ear , and then he heard the voice quite distinctly . 
There was , in fact , a little corner of the paper loose , and through that , as from a mouth in the wall , the voice came . 
What do you mean , little boy closing up my window ? What window ? asked Diamond . 
You stuffed hay into it three times last night . 
I had to blow it out again three times . 
You can't mean this little hole ! It isn't a window it's a hole in my bed . 
I did not say it was a window I said it was my window . 
But it can't be a window , because windows are holes to see out of . 
Well , that's just what I made this window for . 
But you are outside you can't want a window . 
Windows are to see out of , you say . 
Well , I'm in my house , and I want windows to see out of it . 
But you've made a window into my bed . 
Well , your mother has got three windows into my dancing room , and you have three into my garret . 
The law would have some trouble to catch me ! it said . 
But if it's not right , you know , said Diamond , that's no matter . 
I am so tall I am above that law , said the voice . 
You must have a tall house , then , said Diamond . 
Yes a tall house the clouds are inside it . 
Dear me ! said Diamond , and thought a minute . 
I think , then , you can hardly expect me to keep a window in my bed for you . 
Why don't you make a window into Mr. Dyves's bed ? Nobody makes a window into an ash pit , said the voice , rather sadly . 
I like to see nice things out of my windows . 
But he must have a nicer bed than I have , though mine is very nice so nice that I couldn't wish a better . 
It's not the bed I care about it's what is in it . 
But you just open that window . 
Well , mother says I shouldn't be disobliging but it's rather hard . 
You see the north wind will blow right in my face if I do . 
I am the North Wind . 
O o oh ! said Diamond , thoughtfully . 
Then will you promise not to blow on my face if I open your window ? I can't promise that . 
But you'll give me the toothache . 
But what's to become of me without a window ? I'm sure I don't know . 
All I say is , it will be worse for me than for you . 
You shall not be the worse for it I promise you that . 
You will be much the better for it . 
Just you believe what I say , and do as I tell you . 
In came a long whistling spear of cold , and struck his little naked chest . 
It was a still more gentle voice now , although six times as large and loud as it had been , and he thought it sounded a little like his mother's . 
What is your name , little boy ? it asked . 
Diamond , answered Diamond , under the bed clothes . 
What a funny name ! It's a very nice name , returned its owner . 
I don't know that , said the voice . 
Well , I do , retorted Diamond , a little rudely . 
Do you know to whom you are speaking ! No , said Diamond . 
And indeed he did not . 
For to know a person's name is not always to know the person's self . 
Then I must not be angry with you . 
You had better look and see , though . 
Diamond is a very pretty name , persisted the boy , vexed that it should not give satisfaction . 
Diamond is a useless thing rather , said the voice . 
You don't seem to know what a diamond is . 
Oh , don't I just ! Diamond is a great and good horse and he sleeps right under me . 
A beautiful laugh , large but very soft and musical , sounded somewhere beside him , but Diamond kept his head under the clothes . 
I'm not Mr. North Wind , said the voice . 
You told me that you were the North Wind , insisted Diamond . 
I did not say Mister North Wind , said the voice . 
Well , then , I do for mother tells me I ought to be polite . 
Then let me tell you I don't think it at all polite of you to say Mister to me . 
Well , I didn't know better . 
But you ought to know better . 
You can't say it's polite to lie there talking with your head under the bed clothes , and never look up to see what kind of person you are talking to . 
I want you to come out with me . 
I want to go to sleep , said Diamond , very nearly crying , for he did not like to be scolded , even when he deserved it . 
You shall sleep all the better to morrow night . 
Besides , said Diamond , you are out in Mr. Dyves's garden , and I can't get there . 
I can only get into our own yard . 
Will you take your head out of the bed clothes ? said the voice , just a little angrily . 
No ! answered Diamond , half peevish , half frightened . 
The instant he said the word , a tremendous blast of wind crashed in a board of the wall , and swept the clothes off Diamond . 
He started up in terror . 
Leaning over him was the large , beautiful , pale face of a woman . 
Her dark eyes looked a little angry , for they had just begun to flash but a quivering in her sweet upper lip made her look as if she were going to cry . 
From her eyes came all the light by which Diamond saw her face and her , hair and that was all he did see of her yet . 
The wind was over and gone . 
Will you go with me now , you little Diamond ? I am sorry I was forced to be so rough with you , said the lady . 
I will yes , I will , answered Diamond , holding out both his arms . 
But , he added , dropping them , how shall I get my clothes ? They are in mother's room , and the door is locked . 
Oh , never mind your clothes . 
You will not be cold . 
I shall take care of that . 
Nobody is cold with the north wind . 
I thought everybody was , said Diamond . 
That is a great mistake . 
Most people make it , however . 
They are cold because they are not with the north wind , but without it . 
If Diamond had been a little older , and had supposed himself a good deal wiser , he would have thought the lady was joking . 
But he was not older , and did not fancy himself wiser , and therefore understood her well enough . 
Again he stretched out his arms . 
The lady's face drew back a little . 
Follow me , Diamond , she said . 
Yes , said Diamond , only a little ruefully . 
You're not afraid ? said the North Wind . 
No , ma'am but mother never would let me go without shoes she never said anything about clothes , so I dare say she wouldn't mind that . 
I know your mother very well , said the lady . 
She is a good woman . 
I have visited her often . 
I was with her when you were born . 
I saw her laugh and cry both at once . 
I love your mother , Diamond . 
How was it you did not know my name , then , ma'am ? Please am I to say ma'am to you , ma'am ? One question at a time , dear boy . 
I knew your name quite well , but I wanted to hear what you would say for it . 
Don't you remember that day when the man was finding fault with your name how I blew the window in ? Yes , yes , answered Diamond , eagerly . 
Our window opens like a door , right over the coach house door . 
Oh ! a stone , was it ? said Diamond . 
I thought it had been a horse I did . 
A horse is better than a stone any day . 
Well , you see , I know all about you and your mother . 
I will go with you . 
Now for the next question you're not to call me ma'am . 
You must call me just my own name respectfully , you know just North Wind . 
Well , please , North Wind , you are so beautiful , I am quite ready to go with you . 
You must not be ready to go with everything beautiful all at once , Diamond . 
But what's beautiful can't be bad . 
You're not bad , North Wind ? No I'm not bad . 
But sometimes beautiful things grow bad by doing bad , and it takes some time for their badness to spoil their beauty . 
So little boys may be mistaken if they go after things because they are beautiful . 
Well , I will go with you because you are beautiful and good , too . 
You tell me what then . 
Well , I will tell you . 
If you see me with my face all black , don't be frightened . 
If you see me flapping wings like a bat's , as big as the whole sky , don't be frightened . 
If you keep a hold , you will know who I am all the time , even when you look at me and can't see me the least like the North Wind . 
I may look something very awful . 
Do you understand ? Quite well , said little Diamond . 
Come along , then , said North Wind , and disappeared behind the mountain of hay . 
Diamond crept out of bed and followed her . 
CHAPTER II THE LAWN WHEN Diamond got round the corner of the hay , for a moment he hesitated . 
And just beside him was the ladder going straight down into the stable , up which his father always came to fetch the hay for Diamond's dinner . 
Through the opening in the floor the faint gleam of the stable lantern was enticing , and Diamond thought he would run down that way . 
The stair went close past the loose box in which Diamond the horse lived . 
When Diamond the boy was half way down , he remembered that it was of no use to go this way , for the stable door was locked . 
Good night , Diamond , he said , and darted up the ladder , across the loft , and down the stair to the door . 
But when he got out into the yard , there was no lady . 
Now it is always a dreadful thing to think there is somebody and find nobody . 
Children in particular have not made up their minds to it they generally cry at nobody , especially when they wake up at night . 
And there he stood , with his bare feet on the stones of the paved yard . 
It was a clear night overhead , and the stars were shining . 
Orion in particular was making the most of his bright belt and golden sword . 
But the moon was only a poor thin crescent . 
She did not seem comfortable , for she was looking down into the deep pit waiting for her . 
At least that was what Diamond thought as he stood for a moment staring at her . 
I have seen this world only sometimes , just now and then , you know look as strange as ever I saw Fairyland . 
But I confess that I have not yet seen Fairyland at its best . 
I am always going to see it so some time . 
But it can't be denied that a little gentle crying does one good . 
It did Diamond good for as soon as it was over he was a brave boy again . 
She shan't say it was my fault , anyhow ! said Diamond . 
I daresay she is hiding somewhere to see what I will do . 
I will look for her . 
So he went round the end of the stable towards the kitchen garden . 
But the moment he was clear of the shelter of the stable , sharp as a knife came the wind against his little chest and his bare legs . 
Still he would look in the kitchen garden , and went on . 
But when he got round the weeping ash that stood in the corner , the wind blew much stronger , and it grew stronger and stronger till he could hardly fight against it . 
And it was so cold ! All the flashy spikes of the stars seemed to have got somehow into the wind . 
Then he thought of what the lady had said about people being cold because they were not with the North Wind . 
If she had said to him that he must hold his face to it , Diamond would have held his face to it . 
But the most foolish thing is to fight for no good , and to please nobody . 
Well , it was just as if the wind was pushing Diamond along . 
Mr. Coleman was his father's master , and the owner of Diamond . 
He opened the door , and went through the shrubbery , and out into the middle of the lawn , still hoping to find North Wind . 
The soft grass was very pleasant to his bare feet , and felt warm after the stones of the yard but the lady was nowhere to be seen . 
There he stood in the middle of the lawn , the wind blowing his night gown till it flapped like a loose sail . 
He began to wonder whether he was in a dream or not . 
It was important to determine this for , thought Diamond , if I am in a dream , I am safe in my bed , and I needn't cry . 
But if I'm not in a dream , I'm out here , and perhaps I had better cry , or , at least , I'm not sure whether I can help it . 
The back of Mr. Coleman's house was to the lawn , and one of the drawing room windows looked out upon it . 
The ladies had not gone to bed for the light was still shining in that window . 
But they had no idea that a little boy was standing on the lawn in his night gown , or they would have run out in a moment . 
And as long as he saw that light , Diamond could not feel quite lonely . 
He had been in that room once or twice that he could remember at Christmas times for the Colemans were kind people , though they did not care much about children . 
All at once the light went nearly out he could only see a glimmer of the shape of the window . 
Then , indeed , he felt that he was left alone . 
It was so dreadful to be out in the night after everybody was gone to bed ! That was more than he could bear . 
He burst out crying in good earnest , beginning with a wail like that of the wind when it is waking up . 
He would be just as lonely there as here . 
Nay , it would be much worse if he had to think that the window was nothing but a hole in the wall . 
She thought she heard a cry , and , peering out with a hand on each side of her eyes like Diamond's blinkers , she saw something white on the lawn . 
Too old and too wise to be frightened , she opened the door , and went straight towards the white thing to see what it was . 
When she did see , she made a great exclamation , and threw up her hands . 
Then without a word , for she thought Diamond was walking in his sleep , she caught hold of him , and led him towards the house . 
He made no objection , for he was just in the mood to be grateful for notice of any sort , and Mrs. Crump led him straight into the drawing room . 
She was so pleased that she threw down her brush , and almost knelt on the floor to receive him in her arms . 
He saw the next moment that she was not Lady North Wind , but she looked so like her he could not help running into her arms and bursting into tears afresh . 
His mother had to get out of bed to open the door when Mrs. Crump knocked . 
CHAPTER III OLD DIAMOND DIAMOND woke very early in the morning , and thought what a curious dream he had had . 
Then he got up and dressed himself , but , finding that his father and mother were not yet stirring , he went down the ladder to the stable . 
I'll give old Diamond a surprise , thought the , boy and creeping up very softly , before the horse knew , he was astride of his back . 
But then the horse stood as still as a stone , except that he lifted his head gently up to let the boy slip down to his back . 
As soon as Diamond had got himself comfortable on the saddle place , the horse began pulling at the hay , and the boy began thinking . 
He had never mounted Diamond himself before , and he had never got off him without being lifted down . 
So he sat , while the horse ate , wondering how he was to reach the ground . 
But while he meditated , his mother woke , and her first thought was to see her boy . 
She had visited him twice during the night , and found him sleeping quietly . 
Now his bed was empty , and she was frightened . 
Diamond ! Diamond ! Where are you , Diamond ? she called out . 
Diamond turned his head where he sat like a knight on his steed in enchanted stall , and cried aloud , Here , mother ! Where , Diamond ? she returned . 
Here , mother , on Diamond's back . 
She came running to the ladder , and peeping down , saw him aloft on the great horse . 
Come down , Diamond , she said . 
I can't , answered Diamond . 
How did you get up ? asked his mother . 
Quite easily , answered he but when I got up , Diamond would get up too , and so here I am . 
His mother thought he had been walking in his sleep again , and hurried down the ladder . 
So she went and lifted him off Diamond's back , and felt braver all her life after . 
She carried him in her arms up to her room but , afraid of frightening him at his own sleep walking , as she supposed it , said nothing about last night . 
Before the next day was over , Diamond had almost concluded the whole adventure a dream . 
For a week his mother watched him very carefully going into the loft several times a night as often , in fact , as she woke . 
Every time she found him fast asleep . 
All that week it was hard weather . 
The grass showed white in the morning with the hoar frost which clung like tiny comfits to every blade . 
The sun was going down when he flew from the door like a bird from its cage . 
All the world was new to him . 
And Diamond thought that , next to his own home , he had never seen any place he would like so much to live in as that sky . 
For it is not fine things that make home a nice place , but your mother and your father . 
To be quite safe he had to step into the recess of the door that led from the yard to the shrubbery . 
As he stood there he remembered how the wind had driven him to this same spot on the night of his dream . 
And once more he was almost sure that it was no dream . 
At all events , he would go in and see whether things looked at all now as they did then . 
He opened the door , and passed through the little belt of shrubbery . 
Not a flower was to be seen in the beds on the lawn . 
Even the brave old chrysanthemums and Christmas roses had passed away before the frost . 
What ? Yes ! There was one ! He ran and knelt down to look at it . 
It was a primrose a dwarfish thing , but perfect in shape a baby wonder . 
It was just a one eye that the dull black wintry earth had opened to look at the sky with . 
All at once Diamond thought it was saying its prayers , and he ought not to be staring at it so . 
He ran to the stable to see his father make Diamond's bed . 
Then his father took him in his arms , carried him up the ladder , and set him down at the table where they were going to have their tea . 
Miss is very poorly , said Diamond's father . 
Mis'ess has been to the doctor with her to day , and she looked very glum when she came out again . 
I was a watching of them to see what doctor had said . 
And didn't Miss look glum too ? asked his mother . 
Not half as glum as Mis'ess , returned the coachman . 
You see But he lowered his voice , and Diamond could not make out more than a word here and there . 
It was bed time soon , and Diamond went to bed and fell fast asleep . 
He awoke all at once , in the dark . 
Open the window , Diamond , said a voice . 
Now Diamond's mother had once more pasted up North Wind's window . 
Are you North Wind ? said Diamond I don't hear you blowing . 
No but you hear me talking . 
Open the window , for I haven't overmuch time . 
But , please , North Wind , where's the use ? You left me all alone last time . 
He had got up on his knees , and was busy with his nails once more at the paper over the hole in the wall . 
For now that North Wind spoke again , he remembered all that had taken place before as distinctly as if it had happened only last night . 
Yes , but that was your fault , returned North Wind . 
I had work to do and , besides , a gentleman should never keep a lady waiting . 
But I'm not a gentleman , said Diamond , scratching away at the paper . 
I hope you won't say so ten years after this . 
I'm going to be a coachman , and a coachman is not a gentleman , persisted Diamond . 
We call your father a gentleman in our house , said North Wind . 
He doesn't call himself one , said Diamond . 
That's of no consequence every man ought to be a gentleman , and your father is one . 
Diamond was so pleased to hear this that he scratched at the paper like ten mice , and getting hold of the edge of it , tore it off . 
The next instant a young girl glided across the bed , and stood upon the floor . 
Oh dear ! said Diamond , quite dismayed I didn't know who are you , please ? I'm North Wind . 
Are you really ? Yes . 
But you're no bigger than me . 
Do you think I care about how big or how little I am ? Didn't you see me this evening ? I was less then . 
No. Where was you ? Behind the leaves of the primrose . 
Didn't you see them blowing ? Yes . 
Make haste , then , if you want to go with me . 
But you are not big enough to take care of me . 
I think you are only Miss North Wind . 
I am big enough to show you the way , anyhow . 
But if you won't come , why , you must stay . 
I didn't mind with a grown lady , but I couldn't go with a little girl in my night gown . 
I'm not in such a hurry as I was the other night . 
Dress as fast as you can , and I'll go and shake the primrose leaves till you come . 
Don't hurt it , said Diamond . 
North Wind broke out in a little laugh like the breaking of silver bubbles , and was gone in a moment . 
Then he crept out into the yard , through the door in the wall , and away to the primrose . 
Behind it stood North Wind , leaning over it , and looking at the flower as if she had been its mother . 
Come along , she said , jumping up and holding out her hand . 
It was cold , but so pleasant and full of life , it was better than warm . 
She led him across the garden . 
With one bound she was on the top of the wall . 
Diamond was left at the foot . 
Stop , stop ! he cried . 
Please , I can't jump like that . 
You don't try said North Wind , who from the top looked down a foot taller than before . 
Give me your hand again , and I will , try said Diamond . 
She reached down , Diamond laid hold of her hand , gave a great spring , and stood beside her . 
This is nice ! he said . 
Another bound , and they stood in the road by the river . 
It was full tide , and the stars were shining clear in its depths , for it lay still , waiting for the turn to run down again to the sea . 
They walked along its side . 
But they had not walked far before its surface was covered with ripples , and the stars had vanished from its bosom . 
And North Wind was now tall as a full grown girl . 
Her hair was flying about her head , and the wind was blowing a breeze down the river . 
But she turned aside and went up a narrow lane , and as she went her hair fell down around her . 
I have some rather disagreeable work to do to night , she said , before I get out to sea , and I must set about it at once . 
The disagreeable work must be looked after first . 
So saying , she laid hold of Diamond and began to run , gliding along faster and faster . 
Diamond kept up with her as well as he could . 
She made many turnings and windings , apparently because it was not quite easy to get him over walls and houses . 
Once they ran through a hall where they found back and front doors open . 
He let go his hold in dismay , and the wolf bounded up the stair . 
The windows of the house rattled and shook as if guns were firing , and the sound of a great fall came from above . 
Diamond stood with white face staring up at the landing . 
Surely , he thought , North Wind can't be eating one of the children ! Coming to himself all at once , he rushed after her with his little fist clenched . 
Before he reached the head of the stair , however , North Wind met him , took him by the hand , and hurried down and out of the house . 
I hope you haven't eaten a baby , North Wind ! said Diamond , very solemnly . 
North Wind laughed merrily , and went tripping on faster . 
No , she said at last , I did not eat a baby . 
You would not have had to ask that foolish question if you had not let go your hold of me . 
You would have seen how I served a nurse that was calling a child bad names , and telling her she was wicked . 
I saw an ugly gin bottle in a cupboard . 
And you frightened her ? said Diamond . 
I believe so ! answered North Wind laughing merrily . 
I flew at her throat , and she tumbled over on the floor with such a crash that they ran in . 
She'll be turned away to morrow and quite time , if they knew as much as I do . 
But didn't you frighten the little one ? She never saw me . 
The woman would not have seen me either if she had not been wicked . 
Oh ! said Diamond , dubiously . 
Why should you see things , returned North Wind , that you wouldn't understand or know what to do with ? Good people see good things bad people , bad things . 
I had to make myself look like a bad thing before she could see me . 
If I had put on any other shape than a wolf's she would not have seen me , for that is what is growing to be her own shape inside of her . 
I don't know what you mean , said Diamond , but I suppose it's all right . 
They were now climbing the slope of a grassy ascent . 
It was Primrose Hill , in fact , although Diamond had never heard of it . 
The moment they reached the top , North Wind stood and turned her face towards London The stars were still shining clear and cold overhead . 
There was not a cloud to be seen . 
The air was sharp , but Diamond did not find it cold . 
Now , said the lady , whatever you do , do not let my hand go . 
I might have lost you the last time , only I was not in a hurry then now I am in a hurry . 
Yet she stood still for a moment . 
CHAPTER IV NORTH WIND AND as she stood looking towards London , Diamond saw that she was trembling . 
Are you cold , North Wind ? he asked . 
No , Diamond , she answered , looking down upon him with a smile I am only getting ready to sweep one of my rooms . 
Those careless , greedy , untidy children make it in such a mess . 
As she spoke he could have told by her voice , if he had not seen with his eyes , that she was growing larger and larger . 
The next moment , however , it fell back around her , and she grew less and less till she was only a tall woman . 
Then she put her hands behind her head , and gathered some of her hair , and began weaving and knotting it together . 
Diamond held out his arms , for with that grand face looking at him , he believed like a baby . 
She took him in her hands , threw him over her shoulder , and said , Get in , Diamond . 
And Diamond parted her hair with his hands , crept between , and feeling about soon found the woven nest . 
It was just like a pocket , or like the shawl in which gipsy women carry their children . 
North Wind put her hands to her back , felt all about the nest , and finding it safe , said Are you comfortable , Diamond ? Yes , indeed , answered Diamond . 
The next moment he was rising in the air . 
North Wind grew towering up to the place of the clouds . 
Her hair went streaming out from her , till it spread like a mist over the stars . 
She flung herself abroad in space . 
Diamond held on by two of the twisted ropes which , parted and interwoven , formed his shelter , for he could not help being a little afraid . 
As soon as he had come to himself , he peeped through the woven meshes , for he did not dare to look over the top of the nest . 
The earth was rushing past like a river or a sea below him . 
Trees and water and green grass hurried away beneath . 
And now there was nothing but the roofs of houses , sweeping along like a great torrent of stones and rocks . 
Chimney pots fell , and tiles flew from the roofs but it looked to him as if they were left behind by the roofs and the chimneys as they scudded away . 
There was a great roaring , for the wind was dashing against London like a sea but at North Wind's back Diamond , of course , felt nothing of it all . 
He was in a perfect calm . 
He could hear the sound of it , that was all . 
By and by he raised himself and looked over the edge of his nest . 
There were the houses rushing up and shooting away below him , like a fierce torrent of rocks instead of water . 
Then he looked up to the sky , but could see no stars they were hidden by the blinding masses of the lady's hair which swept between . 
He began to wonder whether she would hear him if he spoke . 
I am the old woman that sweeps the cobwebs from the , sky only I'm busy with the floor now . 
What makes the houses look as if they were running away ? I am sweeping so fast over them . 
But , please , North Wind , I knew London was very big , but I didn't know it was so big as this . 
It seems as if we should never get away from it . 
We are going round and round , else we should have left it long ago . 
Is this the way you sweep , North Wind ? Yes I go round and round with my great besom . 
Please , would you mind going a little slower , for I want to see the streets ? You won't see much now . 
Why ? Because I have nearly swept all the people home . 
Oh ! I forgot , said Diamond , and was quiet after that , for he did not want to be troublesome . 
But she dropped a little towards the roofs of the houses , and Diamond could see down into the streets . 
There were very few people about , though . 
The lamps flickered and flared again , but nobody seemed to want them . 
Suddenly Diamond espied a little girl coming along a street . 
She was dreadfully blown by the wind , and a broom she was trailing behind her was very troublesome . 
It seemed as if the wind had a spite at her it kept worrying her like a wild beast , and tearing at her rags . 
She was so lonely there ! Oh ! please , North Wind , he cried , won't you help that little girl ? No , Diamond I mustn't leave my work . 
But why shouldn't you be kind to her ? I am kind to her . 
I am sweeping the wicked smells away . 
But you're kinder to me , dear North Wind . 
Why shouldn't you be as kind to her as you are to me ? There are reasons , Diamond . 
Everybody can't be done to all the same . 
Everybody is not ready for the same thing . 
But I don't see why I should be kinder used than she . 
Do you think nothing's to be done but what you can see , Diamond , you silly ! It's all right . 
Of course you can help her if you like . 
You've got nothing particular to do at this moment I have . 
Oh ! do let me help her , then . 
But you won't be able to wait , perhaps ? No , I can't wait you must do it yourself . 
And , mind , the wind will get a hold of you , too . 
Don't you want me to help her , North Wind ? Not without having some idea what will happen . 
If you break down and cry , that won't be much of a help to her , and it will make a goose of little Diamond . 
I want to go , said Diamond . 
Only there's just one thing how am I to get home ? If you're anxious about that , perhaps you had better go with me . 
I am bound to take you home again , if you do . 
There ! cried Diamond , who was still looking after the little girl . 
I'm sure the wind will blow her over , and perhaps kill her . 
They had been sweeping more slowly along the line of the street . 
There was a lull in the roaring . 
You will get home somehow . 
Have you made up your mind what to do ? Yes to help the little girl , said Diamond firmly . 
The same moment North Wind dropt into the street and stood , only a tall lady , but with her hair flying up over the housetops . 
She put her hands to her back , took Diamond , and set him down in the street . 
The same moment he was caught in the fierce coils of the blast , and all but blown away . 
North Wind stepped back a step , and at once towered in stature to the height of the houses . 
A chimney pot clashed at Diamond's feet . 
The little girl was scudding before the blast , her hair flying too , and behind her she dragged her broom . 
Her little legs were going as fast as ever they could to keep her from falling . 
Diamond crept into the shelter of a doorway , thinking to stop her but she passed him like a bird , crying gently and pitifully . 
Stop ! stop ! little girl , shouted Diamond , starting in pursuit . 
I can't , wailed the girl , the wind won't leave go of me . 
Diamond could run faster than she , and he had no broom . 
In a few moments he had caught her by the frock , but it tore in his hand , and away went the little girl . 
Where are you going ? asked Diamond , rubbing the elbow that had stuck farthest out . 
The arm it belonged to was twined round a lamp post as he stood between the little girl and the wind . 
Home , she said , gasping for breath . 
Then I will go with you , said Diamond . 
And then they were silent for a while , for the wind blew worse than ever , and they had both to hold on to the lamp post . 
Where is your crossing ? asked the girl at length . 
I don't sweep , answered Diamond . 
What do you do , then ? asked she . 
You ain't big enough for most things . 
I don't know what I do do , answered he , feeling rather ashamed . 
My father's Mr. Coleman's coachman . 
Have you a father ? she said , staring at him as if a boy with a father was a natural curiosity . 
Haven't you ? returned Diamond . 
Old Sal's all I've got . 
And she began to cry again . 
I wouldn't go to her if she wasn't good to me , said Diamond . 
But you must go somewheres . 
Move on , said the voice of a policeman behind them . 
I told you so , said the girl . 
But old Sal doesn't beat you , does she ? I wish she would . 
What do you mean ? asked Diamond , quite bewildered . 
She would if she was my mother . 
But she wouldn't lie abed a cuddlin' of her ugly old bones , and laugh to hear me crying at the door . 
You don't mean she won't let you in to night ? It'll be a good chance if she does . 
Why are you out so late , then ? asked Diamond . 
My crossing's a long way off at the West End , and I had been indulgin' in door steps and mewses . 
We'd better have a try anyhow , said Diamond . 
Now you lead me , he said , taking her hand , and I'll take care of you . 
The girl withdrew her hand , but only to dry her eyes with her frock , for the other had enough to do with her broom . 
She put it in his again , and led him , turning after turning , until they stopped at a cellar door in a very dirty lane . 
I shouldn't like to live here , said Diamond . 
Oh , yes , you would , if you had nowhere else to go to , answered the girl . 
I only wish we may get in . 
I don't want to go in , said Diamond . 
Where do you mean to go , then ? Home to my home . 
Where's that ? I don't exactly know . 
Then you're worse off than I am . 
Oh no , for North Wind began Diamond , and stopped , he hardly knew why . 
What ? said the girl , as she held her ear to the door listening . 
But Diamond did not reply . 
I told you so , said the girl . 
She is wide awake hearkening . 
But we don't get in . 
What will you do , then ? asked Diamond . 
Move on , she answered . 
Where ? Oh , anywheres . 
Bless you , I'm used to it . 
Hadn't you better come home with me , then ? That's a good joke , when you don't know where it is . 
But where ? Oh , nowheres in particular . 
The wind had now fallen considerably . 
By this time they were both very tired . 
He was mistaken there , for she was far happier for having Diamond with her than if she had been wandering about alone . 
She did not seem so tired as he was . 
Do let us rest a bit , said Diamond . 
Let's see , she answered . 
There's something like a railway there . 
Perhaps there's an open arch . 
They went towards it and found one , and , better still , there was an empty barrel lying under the arch . 
Hallo ! here we are ! said the girl . 
A barrel's the jolliest bed going on the tramp , I mean . 
We'll have forty winks , and then go on again . 
She crept in , and Diamond crept in beside her . 
They put their arms round each other , and when he began to grow warm , Diamond's courage began to come back . 
This is jolly ! he said . 
I'm so glad ! I don't think so much of it , said the girl . 
I'm used to it , I suppose . 
But I can't think how a kid like you comes to be out all alone this time o' night . 
But I shouldn't have been out so late if I hadn't got down to help you , said Diamond . 
North Wind is gone home long ago . 
I think you must ha' got out o' one o' them Hidget Asylms , said the girl . 
You said something about the north wind afore that I couldn't get the rights of . 
So now , for the sake of his character , Diamond had to tell her the whole story . 
She did not believe a word of it . 
She said he wasn't such a flat as to believe all that bosh . 
But as she spoke there came a great blast of wind through the arch , and set the barrel rolling . 
I thought we should have had a sleep , said Diamond but I can't say I'm very sleepy after all . 
Come , let's go on again . 
They wandered on and on , sometimes sitting on a door step , but always turning into lanes or fields when they had a chance . 
They found themselves at last on a rising ground that sloped rather steeply on the other side . 
It was a waste kind of spot below , bounded by an irregular wall , with a few doors in it . 
Outside lay broken things in general , from garden rollers to flower pots and wine bottles . 
But the moment they reached the brow of the rising ground , a gust of wind seized them and blew them down hill as fast as they could run . 
Nor could Diamond stop before he went bang against one of the doors in the wall . 
To his dismay it burst open . 
When they came to themselves they peeped in . 
It was the back door of a garden . 
But I'm out in the wind too often already to want more of it . 
I said with the North Wind , not in it . 
I'll box your ears , said the girl . 
So he went in at the door . 
Good bye , mister said the girl . 
This brought Diamond to his senses . 
I'm sorry I was cross , he said . 
Come in , and my mother will give you some breakfast . 
I must be off to my crossing . 
I'm very sorry for you , said Diamond . 
Well , it is a life to be tired of what with old Sal , and so many holes in my shoes . 
I wonder you're so good . 
Oh , no , you wouldn't ! When I think of it , I always want to see what's coming next , and so I always wait till next is over . 
Well ! I suppose there's somebody happy somewheres . 
But it ain't in them carriages . 
Oh my ! how they do look sometimes fit to bite your head off ! Good bye ! She ran up the hill and disappeared behind it . 
Then Diamond shut the door as he best could , and ran through the kitchen garden to the stable . 
And wasn't he glad to get into his own blessed bed again ! CHAPTER V THE SUMMER HOUSE DIAMOND said nothing to his mother about his adventures . 
The girl that swept the crossing had certainly refused to believe him . 
Besides , he felt sure that North Wind would tell him if he ought to speak . 
It was some time before he saw the lady of the wind again . 
Indeed nothing remarkable took place in Diamond's history until the following week . 
This was what happened then . 
He then led away both Diamonds together . 
For both the Diamonds were just grandly obedient . 
And Diamond soon found that , as he was obedient to his father , so the horse was obedient to him . 
It was a grand thing to be able to guide a great beast like that . 
And another discovery he made was that , in order to guide the horse , he had in a measure to obey the horse first . 
If he did not yield his body to the motions of the horse's body , he could not guide him he must fall off . 
The blacksmith lived at some distance , deeper into London . 
The lady was his father's mistress , Mrs. Coleman , and the little girl was she for whose sake he had got off North Wind's back . 
He drew Diamond's bridle in eager anxiety to see whether her outstretched hand would gather a penny from Mrs. Coleman . 
But she had given one at the last crossing , and the hand returned only to grasp its broom . 
Diamond could not bear it . 
He had a penny in his pocket , a gift of the same lady the day before , and he tumbled off his horse to give it to the girl . 
He tumbled off , I say , for he did tumble when he reached the ground . 
But he got up in an instant , and ran , searching his pocket as he ran . 
She made him a pretty courtesy when he offered his treasure , but with a bewildered stare . 
But his smile put it all right , and she not only took his penny but put it in her mouth with a Thank you , mister . 
Did they wollop you then ? Oh no ! answered Diamond . 
Lor ! said the little girl , and was speechless . 
The horse might have put his foot on you . 
No , father , answered the boy , and rode on in majestic safety . 
The summer drew near , warm and splendid . 
Miss Coleman was a little better in health , and sat a good deal in the garden . 
One day she saw Diamond peeping through the shrubbery , and called him . 
He talked to her so frankly that she often sent for him after that , and by degrees it came about that he had leave to run in the garden as he pleased . 
A week even makes such a long time in a child's life , that Diamond had begun once more to feel as if North Wind were a dream of some far off year . 
It grew dusky , and the lady began to feel chill , and went in , leaving the boy in the summer house . 
All at once he saw a great bumble bee fly out of one of the tulips . 
There ! that is something done , said a voice a gentle , merry , childish voice , but so tiny . 
I thought he would have had to stay there all night , poor fellow ! I did . 
Diamond could not tell whether the voice was near or far away , it was so small and yet so clear . 
He had never seen a fairy , but he had heard of such , and he began to look all about for one . 
I'm not a fairy , answered the little creature . 
How do you know that ? It would become you better to ask how you are to know it . 
But what's the use of knowing a thing only because you're told it ? Well , how am I to know you are not a fairy ? You do look very like one . 
In the first place , fairies are much bigger than you see me . 
Oh ! said Diamond reflectively I thought they were very little . 
But they might be tremendously bigger than I am , and yet not very big . 
Why , I could be six times the size I am , and not be very huge . 
Besides , a fairy can't grow big and little at will , though the nursery tales do say so they don't know better . 
In a moment he knew that it was North Wind . 
I am very stupid , he said but I never saw you so small before , not even when you were nursing the primrose . 
I had this one to look after . 
It was hard work , though . 
Hard work ! Why , you could blow a chimney down , or or a boy's cap off , said Diamond . 
Both are easier than to blow a tulip open . 
But I scarcely know the difference between hard and easy . 
I am always able for what I have to do . 
When I see my work , I just rush at it and it is done . 
I have got to sink a ship to night . 
Sink a ship ! What ! with men in it ? Yes , and women too . 
How dreadful ! I wish you wouldn't talk so . 
But it is my work . 
I hope you won't ask me to go with you . 
No , I won't ask you . 
But you must come for all that . 
Won't you ? And North Wind grew a tall lady , and looked him in the eyes , and Diamond said Please take me . 
No I could not be cruel if I would . 
I can do nothing cruel , although I often do what looks like cruel to those who do not know what I really am doing . 
How can you carry them there if you never saw it ? I know the way . 
But how is it you never saw it ? Because it is behind me . 
But you can look round . 
Not far enough to see my own back . 
No I always look before me . 
In fact , I grow quite blind and deaf when I try to see my back . 
I only mind my work . 
But how does it be your work ? Ah , that I can't tell you . 
I only know it is , because when I do it I feel all right , and when I don't I feel all wrong . 
I just stick to my work . 
It is all one to me to let a bee out of a tulip , or to sweep the cobwebs from the sky . 
You would like to go with me to night ? I don't want to see a ship sunk . 
But suppose I had to take you ? Why , then , of course I must go . 
I think I had better be growing a bit . 
Only you must go to bed first . 
I can't take you till you're in bed . 
That's the law about the children . 
So I had better go and do something else first . 
Very well , North Wind , said Diamond . 
What are you going to do first , if you please ? I think I may tell you . 
Jump up on the top of the wall , there . 
Ah ! and I can't help you you haven't been to bed yet , you see . 
Come out to the road with me , just in front of the coach house , and I will show you . 
North Wind grew very small indeed , so small that she could not have blown the dust off a dusty miller , as the Scotch children call a yellow auricula . 
Diamond could not even see the blades of grass move as she flitted along by his foot . 
They left the lawn , went out by the wicket in the coach house gates , and then crossed the road to the low wall that separated it from the river . 
You can get up on this wall , Diamond , said North Wind . 
Yes but my mother has forbidden me . 
Then don't , said North Wind . 
But I can see over , said Diamond . 
Ah ! to be sure . 
So saying , North Wind gave a little bound , and stood on the top of the wall . 
She was just about the height a dragon fly would be , if it stood on end . 
You darling ! said Diamond , seeing what a lovely little toy woman she was . 
Don't be impertinent , Master Diamond , said North Wind . 
If there's one thing makes me more angry than another , it is the way you humans judge things by their size . 
I am quite as respectable now as I shall be six hours after this , when I take an East Indiaman by the royals , twist her round , and push her under . 
You have no right to address me in such a fashion . 
But as she spoke , the tiny face wore the smile of a great , grand woman . 
She was only having her own beautiful fun out of Diamond , and true woman's fun never hurts . 
But look there ! she resumed . 
Do you see a boat with one man in it a green and white boat ? Yes quite well . 
I thought you said it was a bo at . 
Stupid pet ! Don't you know what a poet is ? Why , a thing to sail on the water in . 
Well , perhaps you're not so far wrong . 
Some poets do carry people over the sea . 
But I have no business to talk so much . 
The man is a poet . 
The boat is a boat , said Diamond . 
Can't you spell ? asked North Wind . 
A poet is not a bo at , as you call it . 
A poet is a man who is glad of something , and tries to make other people glad of it too . 
Ah ! now I know . 
Like the man in the sweety shop . 
But I see it is no use . 
I wasn't sent to tell you , and so I can't tell you . 
Only first just look at the man . 
He's not much of a rower said Diamond paddling first with one fin and then with the other . 
Now look here ! said North Wind . 
And she flashed like a dragon fly across the water , whose surface rippled and puckered as she passed . 
The next moment the man in the boat glanced about him , and bent to his oars . 
The boat flew over the rippling water . 
Man and boat and river were awake . 
The same instant almost , North Wind perched again upon the river wall . 
How did you do that ? asked Diamond . 
I blew in his face , answered North Wind . 
I don't see how that could do it , said Diamond . 
And therefore you will say you don't believe it could . 
No , no , dear North Wind . 
I know you too well not to believe you . 
Well , I blew in his face , and that woke him up . 
But what was the good of it ? Why ! don't you see ? Look at him how he is pulling . 
I blew the mist out of him . 
How was that ? That is just what I cannot tell you . 
I have to do ten thousand things without being able to tell how . 
I don't like that , said Diamond . 
He was staring after the boat . 
Hearing no answer , he looked down to the wall . 
Away across the river went a long ripple what sailors call a cat's paw . 
The man in the boat was putting up a sail . 
The moon was coming to herself on the edge of a great cloud , and the sail began to shine white . 
Diamond rubbed his eyes , and wondered what it was all about . 
Things seemed going on around him , and all to understand each other , but he could make nothing of it . 
So he put his hands in his pockets , and went in to have his tea . 
The night was very hot , for the wind had fallen again . 
You don't seem very well to night , Diamond , said his mother . 
I am quite well , mother , returned Diamond , who was only puzzled . 
I think you had better go to bed , she added . 
Very well , mother , he answered . 
He stopped for one moment to look out of the window . 
Above the moon the clouds were going different ways . 
Somehow or other this troubled him , but , notwithstanding , he was soon fast asleep . 
He woke in the middle of the night and the darkness . 
A terrible noise was rumbling overhead , like the rolling beat of great drums echoing through a brazen vault . 
The roof of the loft in which he lay had no ceiling only the tiles were between him and the sky . 
For a while he could not come quite awake , for the noise kept beating him down , so that his heart was troubled and fluttered painfully . 
A second peal of thunder burst over his head , and almost choked him with fear . 
The same moment he heard a mighty yet musical voice calling him . 
Come up , Diamond , it said . 
Without a moment's hesitation he reached out his tiny one , and laid it in the grand palm before him . 
CHAPTER VI OUT IN THE STORM THE hand felt its way up his arm , and , grasping it gently and strongly above the elbow , lifted Diamond from the bed . 
The moment he was through the hole in the roof , all the winds of heaven seemed to lay hold upon him , and buffet him hither and thither . 
His hair blew one way , his night gown another , his legs threatened to float from under him , and his head to grow dizzy with the swiftness of the invisible assailant . 
Cowering , he clung with the other hand to the huge hand which held his arm , and fear invaded his heart . 
Oh , North Wind ! he murmured , but the words vanished from his lips as he had seen the soap bubbles that burst too soon vanish from the mouth of his pipe . 
The wind caught them , and they were nowhere . 
They couldn't get out at all , but were torn away and strangled . 
Diamond , dear , she said , be a man . 
What is fearful to you is not the least fearful to me . 
But it can't hurt you , murmured Diamond , for you're it . 
Then if I'm it , and have you in my arms , how can it hurt you ? Oh yes ! I see , whispered Diamond . 
But it looks so dreadful , and it pushes me about so . 
Yes , it does , my dear . 
That is what it was sent for . 
Diamond had not seen the lightning , for he had been intent on finding the face of North Wind . 
He trembled so at the thunder , that his knees failed him , and he sunk down at North Wind's feet , and clasped her round the column of her ankle . 
Oh yes , it will , answered Diamond . 
I am all right now quite comfortable , I assure you , dear North Wind . 
If you will only let me stay here , I shall be all right indeed . 
But you will feel the wind here , Diamond . 
I don't mind that a bit , so long as I feel your arms through it , answered Diamond , nestling closer to her grand bosom . 
Brave boy ! returned North Wind , pressing him closer . 
No , said Diamond , I don't see that . 
It's not courage at all , so long as I feel you there . 
But hadn't you better get into my hair ? Then you would not feel the wind you will here . 
Ah , but , dear North Wind , you don't know how nice it is to feel your arms about me . 
It is a thousand times better to have them and the wind together , than to have only your hair and the back of your neck and no wind at all . 
But it is surely more comfortable there ? Well , perhaps but I begin to think there are better things than being comfortable . 
Yes , indeed there are . 
Well , I will keep you in front of me . 
You will feel the wind , but not too much . 
I shall only want one arm to take care of you the other will be quite enough to sink the ship . 
Oh , dear North Wind ! how can you talk so ? My dear boy , I never talk I always mean what I say . 
Then you do mean to sink the ship with the other hand ? Yes . 
How do you know that ? Quite easily . 
Here you are taking care of a poor little boy with one arm , and there you are sinking a ship with the other . 
It can't be like you . 
Ah ! but which is me ? I can't be two mes , you know . 
No. Nobody can be two mes . 
Well , which me is me ? Now I must think . 
There looks to be two . 
Why am I good to you ? I don't know . 
Have you ever done anything for me ? No. Then I must be good to you because I choose to be good to you . 
Why should I choose ? Because because because you like . 
Why should I like to be good to you ? I don't know , except it be because it's good to be good to me . 
That's just it I am good to you because I like to be good . 
Then why shouldn't you be good to other people as well as to me ? That's just what I don't know . 
Why shouldn't I ? I don't know either . 
Then why shouldn't you ? Because I am . 
There it is again , said Diamond . 
I don't see that you are . 
It looks quite the other thing . 
Well , but listen to me , Diamond . 
You know the one me , you say , and that is good . 
Do you know the other me as well ? No. I can't . 
You don't know the other me . 
You are sure of one of them ? Yes . 
And you are sure there can't be two mes ? Yes . 
Then the me you don't know must be the same as the me you do know , else there would be two mes ? Yes . 
Then the other me you don't know must be as kind as the me you do know ? Yes . 
Besides , I tell you that it is so , only it doesn't look like it . 
Have you anything more to object ? No , no , dear North Wind I am quite satisfied . 
Then I will tell you something you might object . 
You might say that the me you know is like the other me , and that I am cruel all through . 
I know that can't be , because you are so kind . 
But that kindness might be only a pretence for the sake of being more cruel afterwards . 
Diamond clung to her tighter than ever , crying No , no , dear North Wind I can't believe that . 
I can't say I shall like to see it , you know . 
And as if the clouds knew she had come , they burst into a fresh jubilation of thunderous light . 
But he did not mind it . 
He only gasped first and then laughed , for the arm of North Wind was about him , and he was leaning against her bosom . 
It is quite impossible for me to describe what he saw . 
Diamond saw the threads of the lady's hair streaking it all . 
In parts indeed he could not tell which was hair and which was black storm and vapour . 
It seemed sometimes that all the great billows of mist muddy wind were woven out of the crossing lines of North Wind's infinite hair , sweeping in endless intertwistings . 
It seemed to Diamond likewise that they were motionless in this centre , and that all the confusion and fighting went on around them . 
They were sweeping with the speed of the wind itself towards the sea . 
CHAPTER VII THE CATHEDRAL I MUST not go on describing what cannot be described , for nothing is more wearisome . 
Before they reached the sea , Diamond felt North Wind's hair just beginning to fall about him . 
Is the storm over , North Wind ? he called out . 
I am only waiting a moment to set you down . 
You would not like to see the ship sunk , and I am going to give you a place to stop in till I come back for you . 
Oh ! thank you , said Diamond . 
I shall be sorry to leave you , North Wind , but I would rather not see the ship go down . 
And I'm afraid the poor people will cry , and I should hear them . 
Oh , dear ! There are a good many passengers on board and to tell the truth , Diamond , I don't care about your hearing the cry you speak of . 
I am afraid you would not get it out of your little head again for a long time . 
But how can you bear it then , North Wind ? For I am sure you are kind . 
I shall never doubt that again . 
So it would you if you could hear it . 
No , it wouldn't , returned Diamond , stoutly . 
For they wouldn't hear the music of the far away song and if they did , it wouldn't do them any good . 
You see you and I are not going to be drowned , and so we might enjoy it . 
But you have never heard the psalm , and you don't know what it is like . 
Somehow , I can't say how , it tells me that all is right that it is coming to swallow up all cries . 
But that won't do them any good the people , I mean , persisted Diamond . 
It must , said North Wind , hurriedly . 
It wouldn't be the song it seems to be if it did not swallow up all their fear and pain too , and set them singing it themselves with the rest . 
I am sure it will . 
Only I must say it was some thousand years before I heard it . 
But how can you say it was coming nearer when you did not hear it ? asked doubting little Diamond . 
Since I began to hear it , I know it is growing louder , therefore I judge it was coming nearer and nearer until I did hear it first . 
But this will never do . 
Will you stop here ? I can't see anywhere to stop , said Diamond . 
Your hair is all down like a darkness , and I can't see through it if I knock my eyes into it ever so much . 
And lo ! it was a blue night , lit up with stars . 
A very good place for you to wait in , said North Wind . 
But we shall go in , and you shall judge for yourself . 
There was an open door in the middle of one of the towers , leading out upon the roof , and through it they passed . 
It was enough , however , to allow Diamond to see that North Wind stood beside him . 
He looked up to find her face , and saw that she was no longer a beautiful giantess , but the tall gracious lady he liked best to see . 
It was very narrow , and except when they were passing through the wall , Diamond saw nothing to keep him from falling into the church . 
It lay below him like a great silent gulf hollowed in stone , and he held his breath for fear as he looked down . 
I am afraid of falling down there , answered Diamond . 
It is so deep down . 
Yes , rather , answered North Wind but you were a hundred times higher a few minutes ago . 
Ah , yes , but somebody's arm was about me then , said Diamond , putting his little mouth to the beautiful cold hand that had a hold of his . 
What a dear little warm mouth you've got ! said North Wind . 
It is a pity you should talk nonsense with it . 
Don't you know I have a hold of you ? Yes but I'm walking on my own legs , and they might slip . 
I can't trust myself so well as your arms . 
But I have a hold of you , I tell you , foolish child . 
Yes , but somehow I can't feel comfortable . 
I don't like it though , said Diamond . 
She left the words , Come after me , sounding in his ears . 
But move he dared not . 
Diamond nestled to her , and murmured into her bosom , Why did you leave me , dear North Wind ? Because I wanted you to walk alone , she answered . 
But it is so much nicer here ! said Diamond . 
I daresay but I couldn't hold a little coward to my heart . 
It was the wind that blew in my face that made me brave . 
Wasn't it now , North Wind ? Yes I know that . 
You had to be taught what courage was . 
And you couldn't know what it was without feeling it therefore it was given you . 
But don't you feel as if you would try to be brave yourself next time ? Yes , I do . 
But trying is not much . 
Yes , it is a very great deal , for it is a beginning . 
And a beginning is the greatest thing of all . 
To try to be brave is to be brave . 
The coward who tries to be brave is before the man who is brave because he is made so , and never had to try . 
How kind you are , North Wind ! I am only just . 
All kindness is but justice . 
I don't quite understand that . 
Never mind you will some day . 
There is no hurry about understanding it now . 
Who blew the wind on me that made me brave ? I did . 
Therefore you can believe me . 
Yes , yes of course . 
But how was it that such a little breath could be so strong ? That I don't know . 
But you made it strong ? No I only blew it . 
I knew it would make you strong , just as it did the man in the boat , you remember . 
But how my breath has that power I cannot tell . 
It was put into it when I was made . 
That is all I know . 
But really I must be going about my work . 
Ah ! the poor ship ! I wish you would stop here , and let the poor ship go . 
That I dare not do . 
Will you stop here till I come back ? Yes . 
You won't be long ? Not longer than I can help . 
Trust me , you shall get home before the morning . 
In a moment North Wind was gone , and the next Diamond heard a moaning about the church , which grew and grew to a roaring . 
The storm was up again , and he knew that North Wind's hair was flying . 
Only a little light came through the windows , which were almost all of that precious old stained glass which is so much lovelier than the new . 
But Diamond could not see how beautiful they were , for there was not enough of light in the stars to show the colours of them . 
He could only just distinguish them from the walls , He looked up , but could not see the gallery along which he had passed . 
He could only tell where it was far up by the faint glimmer of the windows of the clerestory , whose sills made part of it . 
The church grew very lonely about him , and he began to feel like a child whose mother has forsaken it . 
Only he knew that to be left alone is not always to be forsaken . 
He began to feel his way about the place , and for a while went wandering up and down . 
His little footsteps waked little answering echoes in the great house . 
It wasn't too big to mind him . 
It was as if the church knew he was there , and meant to make itself his house . 
So it went on giving back an answer to every step , until at length Diamond thought he should like to say something out loud , and see what the church would answer . 
But he found he was afraid to speak . 
He could not utter a word for fear of the loneliness . 
Perhaps it was as well that he did not , for the sound of a spoken word would have made him feel the place yet more deserted and empty . 
But he thought he could sing . 
He was fond of singing , and at home he used to sing , to tunes of his own , all the nursery rhymes he knew . 
So he began to try Hey diddle diddle' , but it wouldn't do . 
Then he tried Little Boy Blue' , but it was no better . 
Neither would Sing a Song of Sixpence' sing itself at all . 
Then he tried Poor old Cockytoo' , but he wouldn't do . 
They all sounded so silly ! and he had never thought them silly before . 
So he was quiet , and listened to the echoes that came out of the dark corners in answer to his footsteps . 
At last he gave a great sigh , and said , I'm so tired . 
He cried a little first , and then crawled up the steps on his hands and knees . 
Now this was the eastern window of the church , and the moon was at that moment just on the edge of the horizon . 
The next , she was peeping over it . 
And lo ! with the moon , St . 
Paul , and the rest of them , began to dawn in the window in their lovely garments . 
So he lay and looked at them backwards over his head , wondering when they would come down or what they would do next . 
They were very dim , for the moonlight was not strong enough for the colours , and he had enough to do with his eyes trying to make out their shapes . 
So his eyes grew tired , and more and more tired , and his eyelids grew so heavy that they would keep tumbling down over his eyes . 
He kept lifting them and lifting them , but every time they were heavier than the last . 
It was no use they were too much for him . 
CHAPTER VIII THE EAST WINDOW THAT Diamond had fallen fast asleep is very evident from the strange things he now fancied as taking place . 
For he thought he heard a sound as of whispering up in the great window . 
He tried to open his eyes , but he could not . 
And the whispering went on and grew louder and louder , until he could hear every word that was said . 
He thought it was the Apostles talking about him . 
But he could not open his eyes . 
And how comes he to be lying there , St . 
I think I saw him a while ago up in the gallery , under the Nicodemus window . 
Perhaps he has fallen down . 
What do you think , St . 
Matthew ? I don't think he could have crept here after falling from such a height . 
He must have been killed . 
What are we to do with him ? We can't leave him lying there . 
And we could not make him comfortable up here in the window it's rather crowded already . 
What do you say , St . 
Thomas ? Let's go down and look at him . 
And still he could not open his eyes . 
What is the matter with him , St . 
There's nothing the matter with him , answered St . 
Luke , who must have joined the company of the Apostles from the next window , one would think . 
He's in a sound sleep . 
I have it , cried another . 
This is one of North Wind's tricks . 
She has caught him up and dropped him at our door , like a withered leaf or a foundling baby . 
I don't understand that woman's conduct , I must say . 
As if we hadn't enough to do with our money , without going taking care of other people's children ! That's not what our forefathers built cathedrals for . 
Now Diamond could not bear to hear such things against North Wind , who , he knew , never played anybody a trick . 
She was far too busy with her own work for that . 
He struggled hard to open his eyes , but without success . 
She should consider that a church is not a place for pranks , not to mention that we live in it , said another . 
It certainly is disrespectful of her . 
But she always is disrespectful . 
What right has she to bang at our windows as she has been doing the whole of this night ? I daresay there is glass broken somewhere . 
I know my blue robe is in a dreadful mess with the rain first and the dust after . 
It will cost me shillings to clean it . 
Then Diamond knew that they could not be Apostles , talking like this . 
And he was so angry at their daring to abuse North Wind , that he jumped up , crying North Wind knows best what she is about . 
She has a good right to blow the cobwebs from your windows , for she was sent to do it . 
She sweeps them away from grander places , I can tell you , for I've been with her at it . 
Old Diamond was coming awake down below in the stable . 
In a moment more he was on his feet , and shaking himself so that young Diamond's bed trembled under him . 
He's grand at shaking himself , said Diamond . 
I wish I could shake myself like that . 
But then I can wash myself , and he can't . 
Then he went out into the garden . 
I wonder how old the tree is ! thought Diamond . 
It must take a long time to get so near the sky as that poor tree was . 
Yes , indeed , said a voice beside him , for Diamond had spoken the last words aloud . 
Diamond started , and looking around saw a clergyman , a brother of Mrs. Coleman , who happened to be visiting her . 
He was a great scholar , and was in the habit of rising early . 
Who are you , my man ? he added . 
Little Diamond , answered the boy . 
Oh ! I have heard of you . 
How do you come to be up so early ? Because the sham Apostles talked such nonsense , they waked me up . 
Diamond saw that he had better have held his tongue , for he could not explain things . 
You must have been dreaming , my little man , said he . 
Dear ! dear ! he went on , looking at the tree , there has been terrible work here . 
This is the north wind's doing . 
What a pity ! I wish we lived at the back of it , I'm sure . 
Where is that sir ? asked Diamond . 
Away in the Hyperborean regions , answered the clergyman , smiling . 
I never heard of the place , returned Diamond . 
I daresay not , answered the clergyman but if this tree had been there now , it would not have been blown down , for there is no wind there . 
But , please , sir , if it had been there , said Diamond , we should not have had to be sorry for it . 
Then we shouldn't have had to be glad for it , either . 
You're quite right , my boy , said the clergyman , looking at him very kindly , as he turned away to the house , with his eyes bent towards the earth . 
But Diamond thought within himself , I will ask North Wind next time I see her to take me to that country . 
I think she did speak about it once before . 
CHAPTER IX HOW DIAMOND GOT TO THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND WHEN Diamond went home to breakfast , he found his father and mother already seated at the table . 
They were both busy with their bread and butter , and Diamond sat himself down in his usual place . 
His mother looked up at him , and , after watching him for a moment , said I don't think the boy is looking well , husband . 
Don't you ? Well , I don't know . 
I think he looks pretty bobbish . 
How do you feel yourself , Diamond , my boy ? Quite well , thank you , father at least , I think I've got a little headache . 
There ! I told you , said his father and mother both at once . 
The child's very poorly added his mother . 
The child's quite well , added his father . 
And then they both laughed . 
You see , said his mother , I've had a letter from my sister at Sandwich . 
Sleepy old hole ! said his father . 
Don't abuse the place there's good people in it , said his mother . 
Right , old lady , returned his father only I don't believe there are more than two pair of carriage horses in the whole blessed place . 
Well , people can get to heaven without carriages or coachmen either , husband . 
Not that I should like to go without my coachman , you know . 
But about the boy ? What boy ? That boy , there , staring at you with his goggle eyes . 
Have I got goggle eyes , mother ? asked Diamond , a little dismayed . 
Not too goggle , said his mother , who was quite proud of her boy's eyes , only did not want to make him vain . 
Not too goggle only you need not stare so . 
Well , what about him ? said his father . 
I told you I had got a letter . 
Yes , from your sister not from Diamond . 
La , husband ! you've got out of bed the wrong leg first this morning , I do believe . 
I always get out with both at once , said his father , laughing . 
His aunt wants the boy to go down and see her . 
And that's why you want to make out that he ain't looking well . 
I think he had better go . 
Well , I don't care , if you can find the money , said his father . 
I'll manage that , said his mother and so it was agreed that Diamond should go to Sandwich . 
I will not describe the preparations Diamond made . 
You would have thought he had been going on a three months' voyage . 
Nor will I describe the journey , for our business is now at the place . 
He was met at the station by his aunt , a cheerful middle aged woman , and conveyed in safety to the sleepy old town , as his father called it . 
And no wonder that it was sleepy , for it was nearly dead of old age . 
Diamond went about staring with his beautiful goggle eyes , at the quaint old streets , and the shops , and the houses . 
Everything looked very strange , indeed for here was a town abandoned by its nurse , the sea , like an old oyster left on the shore till it gaped for weariness . 
Of course it went to sleep , and had no more to do with ships . 
That's what comes to cities and nations , and boys and girls , who say , I can do without your help . 
One afternoon he had been wandering rather wearily about the streets for some time . 
It was a hot day , and he felt tired . 
As he passed the toyshop , he stepped in . 
Please may I sit down for a minute on this box ? he said , thinking the old woman was somewhere in the shop . 
But he got no answer , and sat down without one . 
Around him were a great many toys of all prices , from a penny up to shillings . 
All at once he heard a gentle whirring somewhere amongst them . 
It made him start and look behind him . 
There were the sails of a windmill going round and round almost close to his ear . 
But the wonder was that there was no one at the whistle end blowing , and yet the sails were turning round and round now faster , now slower , now faster again . 
What can it mean ? said Diamond , aloud . 
It means me , said the tiniest voice he had ever heard . 
Who are you , please ? asked Diamond . 
Well , really , I begin to be ashamed of you , said the voice . 
I wonder how long it will be before you know me or how often I might take you in before you got sharp enough to suspect me . 
You are as bad as a baby that doesn't know his mother in a new bonnet . 
Do grow a little , please . 
Not a hair's breadth , said the voice , and it was the smallest voice that ever spoke . 
What are you doing here ? I am come to see my aunt . 
But , please , North Wind , why didn't you come back for me in the church that night ? I did . 
I carried you safe home . 
All the time you were dreaming about the glass Apostles , you were lying in my arms . 
I'm so glad , said Diamond . 
I thought that must be it , only I wanted to hear you say so . 
Did you sink the ship , then ? Yes . 
And drown everybody ? Not quite . 
One boat got away with six or seven men in it . 
How could the boat swim when the ship couldn't ? Of course I had some trouble with it . 
I had to contrive a bit , and manage the waves a little . 
When they're once thoroughly waked up , I have a good deal of trouble with them sometimes . 
They're apt to get stupid with tumbling over each other's heads . 
That's when they're fairly at it . 
However , the boat got to a desert island before noon next day . 
And what good will come of that ? I don't know . 
Oh ! stay , North Wind , do stay ! cried Diamond , dismayed to see the windmill get slower and slower . 
What is it , my dear child ? said North Wind , and the windmill began turning again so swiftly that Diamond could scarcely see it . 
I want you to take me to the country at the back of the north wind . 
That's not so easy , said North Wind , and was silent for so long that Diamond thought she was gone indeed . 
But after he had quite given her up , the voice began again . 
I almost wish old Herodotus had held his tongue about it . 
Much he knew of it ! Why do you wish that , North Wind ? Because then that clergyman would never have heard of it , and set you wanting to go . 
You must go home now , my dear , for you don't seem very well , and I'll see what can be done for you . 
I've got to break a few of old Goody's toys she's thinking too much of her new stock . 
Two or three will do . 
Diamond rose , quite sorry , and without a word left the shop , and went home . 
It soon appeared that his mother had been right about him , for that same afternoon his head began to ache very much , and he had to go to bed . 
He awoke in the middle of the night . 
The lattice window of his room had blown open , and the curtains of his little bed were swinging about in the wind . 
If that should be North Wind now ! thought Diamond . 
But the next moment he heard some one closing the window , and his aunt came to his bedside . 
She put her hand on his face , and said How's your head , dear ? Better , auntie , I think . 
Would you like something to drink ? Oh , yes ! I should , please . 
And so he did , but only to come awake again , as a fresh burst of wind blew the lattice open a second time . 
The same moment he found himself in a cloud of North Wind's hair , with her beautiful face , set in it like a moon , bending over him . 
Quick , Diamond ! she said . 
I have found such a chance ! But I'm not well , said Diamond . 
I know that , but you will be better for a little fresh air . 
You shall have plenty of that . 
You want me to go , then ? Yes , I do . 
Very well , said Diamond and getting out of the bed clothes , he jumped into North Wind's arms . 
We must make haste before your aunt comes , said she , as she glided out of the open lattice and left it swinging . 
The moment Diamond felt her arms fold around him he began to feel better . 
It was a moonless night , and very dark , with glimpses of stars when the clouds parted . 
I used to dash the waves about here , said North Wind , where cows and sheep are feeding now but we shall soon get to them . 
And Diamond , looking down , saw the white glimmer of breaking water far below him . 
Why not ? asked Diamond . 
You little silly ! said North Wind . 
I sit on the doorstep , and hear the voices inside . 
I am nobody there , Diamond . 
Why ? That you should be nobody . 
Oh , I don't mind it . 
Dear little man ! you will be very glad some day to be nobody yourself . 
Then I won't , said Diamond . 
It will all come in good time . 
But you haven't told me how you get to the doorstep , you know . 
It is easy enough for me . 
I have only to consent to be nobody , and there I am . 
I draw into myself and there I am on the doorstep . 
Oh , I'm so sorry ! said Diamond . 
What for now , pet ? That I'm so heavy for you . 
I would be lighter if I could , but I don't know how . 
You silly darling ! Why , I could toss you a hundred miles from me if I liked . 
It is only when I am going home that I shall find you heavy . 
Then you are going home with me ? Of course . 
Did I not come to fetch you just for that ? But all this time you must be going southwards . 
How can you be taking me northwards , then ? A very sensible question . 
I will get rid of a few of these clouds only they do come up so fast ! It's like trying to blow a brook dry . 
There ! What do you see now ? I think I see a little boat , away there , down below . 
I've helped him many a time when he little thought it . 
I've heard him grumbling at me , when I was doing the very best I could for him . 
Why , I've carried him eighty miles a day , again and again , right north . 
He must have dodged for that , said Diamond , who had been watching the vessels , and had seen that they went other ways than the wind blew . 
But don't you see , it was the best I could do ? I couldn't be South Wind . 
And besides it gave him a share in the business . 
It is not good at all mind that , Diamond to do everything for those you love , and not give them a share in the doing . 
It's making too much of yourself , my child . 
If I had been South Wind , he would only have smoked his pipe all day , and made himself stupid . 
You do understand , then , that a captain may sail north In spite of a north wind yes , supplemented Diamond . 
Now , I do think you must be stupid , my , dear said North Wind . 
Suppose the north wind did not blow where would he be then ? Why then the south wind would carry him . 
So you think that when the north wind stops the south wind blows . 
If I didn't blow , the captain couldn't sail his eighty miles a day . 
No doubt South Wind would carry him faster , but South Wind is sitting on her doorstep then , and if I stopped there would be a dead calm . 
So you are all wrong to say he can sail north in spite of me he sails north by my help , and my help alone . 
You see that , Diamond ? Yes , I do , North Wind . 
I am stupid , but I don't want to be stupid . 
Good boy ! I am going to blow you north in that little craft , one of the finest that ever sailed the sea . 
Here we are , right over it . 
I shall be blowing against you you will be sailing against me and all will be just as we want it . 
The captain won't get on so fast as he would like , but he will get on , and so shall we . 
I'm just going to put you on board . 
Below that is where they keep their spare sails , and some stores of that sort . 
I am going to blow that cover off . 
The same moment I will drop you on deck , and you must tumble in . 
Don't be afraid , it is of no depth , and you will fall on sail cloth . 
You will find it nice and warm and dry only dark and you will know I am near you by every roll and pitch of the vessel . 
Coil yourself up and go to sleep . 
The yacht shall be my cradle and you shall be my baby . 
Thank you , dear North Wind . 
I am not a bit afraid , said Diamond . 
In a moment they were on a level with the bulwarks , and North Wind sent the hatch of the after store rattling away over the deck to leeward . 
The next , Diamond found himself in the dark , for he had tumbled through the hole as North Wind had told him , and the cover was replaced over his head . 
Away he went rolling to leeward , for the wind began all at once to blow hard . 
Diamond felt about until he had found what seemed the most comfortable place , and there he snuggled down and lay . 
Hours after hours , a great many of them , went by and still Diamond lay there . 
He never felt in the least tired or impatient , for a strange pleasure filled his heart . 
How long this lasted Diamond had no idea . 
He seemed to fall asleep sometimes , only through the sleep he heard the sounds going on . 
At length the weather seemed to get worse . 
All at once arose a terrible uproar . 
The hatch was blown off a cold fierce wind swept in upon him and a long arm came with it which laid hold of him and lifted him out . 
The same moment he saw the little vessel far below him righting herself . 
She had taken in all her sails and lay now tossing on the waves like a sea bird with folded wings . 
A short distance to the south lay a much larger vessel , with two or three sails set , and towards it North Wind was carrying Diamond . 
It was a German ship , on its way to the North Pole . 
That vessel down there will give us a lift now , said North Wind and after that I must do the best I can . 
She managed to hide him amongst the flags of the big ship , which were all snugly stowed away , and on and on they sped towards the north . 
At length one night she whispered in his ear , Come on deck , Diamond and he got up at once and crept on deck . 
Here and there on all sides were huge masses of floating ice , looking like cathedrals , and castles , and crags , while away beyond was a blue sea . 
Is the sun rising or setting ? asked Diamond . 
Neither or both , which you please . 
I can hardly tell which myself . 
If he is setting now , he will be rising the next moment . 
What a strange light it is ! said Diamond . 
I have heard that the sun doesn't go to bed all the summer in these parts . 
Miss Coleman told me that . 
I suppose he feels very sleepy , and that is why the light he sends out looks so like a dream . 
That will account for it well enough for all practical purposes , said North Wind . 
Some of the icebergs were drifting northwards one was passing very near the ship . 
North Wind seized Diamond , and with a single bound lighted on one of them a huge thing , with sharp pinnacles and great clefts . 
The same instant a wind began to blow from the south . 
She brought him to a cave near the water , where she entered , and , letting Diamond go , sat down as if weary on a ledge of ice . 
Diamond seated himself on the other side , and for a while was enraptured with the colour of the air inside the cave . 
It was a deep , dazzling , lovely blue , deeper than the deepest blue of the sky . 
The blue seemed to be in constant motion , like the blackness when you press your eyeballs with your fingers , boiling and sparkling . 
But when he looked across to North Wind he was frightened her face was worn and livid . 
What is the matter with you , dear North Wind ? he said . 
But you mustn't mind it , for I can bear it quite well . 
South Wind always blows me faint . 
If it were not for the cool of the thick ice between me and her , I should faint altogether . 
Indeed , as it is , I fear I must vanish . 
He could see the side of the blue cave through her very heart . 
And she melted away till all that was left was a pale face , like the moon in the morning , with two great lucid eyes in it . 
I am going , Diamond , she said . 
Does it hurt you ? asked Diamond . 
It's very uncomfortable , she answered but I don't mind it , for I shall come all right again before long . 
I thought I should be able to go with you all the way , but I cannot . 
You must not be frightened though . 
Just go straight on , and you will come all right . 
You'll find me on the doorstep . 
As she spoke , her face too faded quite away , only Diamond thought he could still see her eyes shining through the blue . 
When he went closer , however , he found that what he thought her eyes were only two hollows in the ice . 
North Wind was quite gone and Diamond would have cried , if he had not trusted her so thoroughly . 
It was an excellent craft to go with the current , for there was twice as much of it below water as above . 
But a light south wind was blowing too , and so it went fast . 
After a little while Diamond went out and sat on the edge of his floating island , and looked down into the ocean beneath him . 
The white sides of the berg reflected so much light below the water , that he could see far down into the green abyss . 
Sometimes he fancied he saw the eyes of North Wind looking up at him from below , but the fancy never lasted beyond the moment of its birth . 
And the time passed he did not know how , for he felt as if he were in a dream . 
But he chiefly gazed northwards , to see whether any land were appearing . 
All this time he never wanted to eat . 
He broke off little bits of the berg now and then and sucked them , and he thought them very nice . 
As it went on the peak rose and rose higher and higher above the horizon and other peaks rose after it , with sharp edges and jagged ridges connecting them . 
The berg floated slowly up to a projecting rock . 
Diamond stepped on shore , and without looking behind him began to follow a natural path which led windingly towards the top of the precipice . 
When he reached it , he found himself on a broad table of ice , along which he could walk without much difficulty . 
Before him , at a considerable distance , rose a lofty ridge of ice , which shot up into fantastic pinnacles and towers and battlements . 
The air was very cold , and seemed somehow dead , for there was not the slightest breath of wind . 
In the centre of the ridge before him appeared a gap like the opening of a valley . 
It is North Wind on her doorstep , said Diamond joyfully , and hurried on . 
Then Diamond grew frightened , because she did not move nor speak . 
He was sure it was North Wind , but he thought she must be dead at last . 
Her face was white as the snow , her eyes were blue as the air in the ice cave , and her hair hung down straight , like icicles . 
She had on a greenish robe , like the colour in the hollows of a glacier seen from far off . 
He stood up before her , and gazed fearfully into her face for a few minutes before he ventured to speak . 
At length , with a great effort and a trembling voice , he faltered out North Wind ! Well , child ? said the form , without lifting its head . 
Are you ill , dear North Wind ? No. I am waiting . 
What for ? Till I'm wanted . 
You don't care for me any more , said Diamond , almost crying now . 
Only I can't show it . 
All my love is down at the bottom of my heart . 
But I feel it bubbling there . 
What do you want me to do next , dear North Wind ? said Diamond , wishing to show his love by being obedient . 
What do you want to do yourself ? I want to go into the country at your back . 
Then you must go through me . 
I don't know what you mean . 
I mean just what I say . 
You must walk on as if I were an open door , and go right through me . 
But that will hurt you . 
It will hurt you , though . 
I don't mind that , if you tell me to do it . 
Do it , said North Wind . 
Diamond walked towards her instantly . 
When he reached her knees , he put out his hand to lay it on her , but nothing was there save an intense cold . 
Then all grew white about him and the cold stung him like fire . 
He walked on still , groping through the whiteness . 
At last , it got into his heart , and he lost all sense . 
I would say that he fainted only whereas in common faints all grows black about you , he felt swallowed up in whiteness . 
It was when he reached North Wind's heart that he fainted and fell . 
But as he fell , he rolled over the threshold , and it was thus that Diamond got to the back of the north wind . 
CHAPTER X AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND I HAVE now come to the most difficult part of my story . 
And why ? Because I do not know enough about it . 
Things there are so different from things here ! The people there do not speak the same language for one thing . 
Indeed , Diamond insisted that there they do not speak at all . 
I do not think he was right , but it may well have appeared so to Diamond . 
The fact is , we have different reports of the place from the most trustworthy people . 
Therefore we are bound to believe that it appears somewhat different to different people . 
All , however , agree in a general way about it . 
I will tell you something of what two very different people have reported , both of whom knew more about it , I believe , than Herodotus . 
The former was a great Italian of noble family , who died more than five hundred years ago the latter a Scotch shepherd who died not forty years ago . 
The Italian , then , informs us that he had to enter that country through a fire so hot that he would have thrown himself into boiling glass to cool himself . 
The peasant girl , on the other hand , fell fast asleep in a wood , and woke in the same country . 
He seems to imply that it is always the month of May in that country . 
The last two lines are the shepherd's own remark , and a matter of opinion . 
Now I must give you such fragments of recollection as Diamond was able to bring back with him . 
When he came to himself after he fell , he found himself at the back of the north wind . 
North Wind herself was nowhere to be seen . 
Neither was there a vestige of snow or of ice within sight . 
The sun too had vanished but that was no matter , for there was plenty of a certain still rayless light . 
Where it came from he never found out but he thought it belonged to the country itself . 
Sometimes he thought it came out of the flowers , which were very bright , but had no strong colour . 
Nothing went wrong at the back of the north wind . 
Neither was anything quite right , he thought . 
Only everything was going to be right some day . 
His account disagreed with that of Durante , and agreed with that of Kilmeny , in this , that he protested there was no wind there at all . 
I fancy he missed it . 
At all events we could not do without wind . 
It all depends on how big our lungs are whether the wind is too strong for us or not . 
Did you talk to her , Diamond ? No. Nobody talks there . 
They only look at each other , and understand everything . 
Is it cold there ? No. Is it hot ? No. What is it then ? You never think about such things there . 
What a queer place it must be ! It's a very good place . 
Do you want to go back again ? No I don't think I have left it I feel it here , somewhere . 
Did the people there look pleased ? Yes quite pleased , only a little sad . 
Then they didn't look glad ? They looked as if they were waiting to be gladder some day . 
This was how Diamond used to answer questions about that country . 
And now I will take up the story again , and tell you how he got back to this country . 
In a few minutes , if he kept very still , he would see something at least of what was going on with the people he loved . 
One day when Diamond was sitting in this tree , he began to long very much to get home again , and no wonder , for he saw his mother crying . 
Durante says that the people there may always follow their wishes , because they never wish but what is good . 
Diamond's wish was to get home , and he would fain follow his wish . 
He had never seen her back . 
She might be sitting on her doorstep still , looking southwards , and waiting , white and thin and blue eyed , until she was wanted . 
Or she might have again become a mighty creature , with power to do that which was demanded of her , and gone far away upon many missions . 
She must be somewhere , however . 
He could not go home without her , and therefore he must find her . 
She could never have intended to leave him always away from his mother . 
If there had been any danger of that , she would have told him , and given him his choice about going . 
For North Wind was right honest . 
How to find North Wind , therefore , occupied all his thoughts . 
In his anxiety about his mother , he used to climb the tree every day , and sit in its branches . 
Far away was a blue shining sea , dotted with gleaming and sparkling specks of white . 
He thought he could distinguish the vapoury form of North Wind , seated as he had left her , on the other side . 
Hastily he descended the tree , and to his amazement found that the map or model of the country still lay at his feet . 
For there she sat on her doorstep . 
The peaks of the great ridge of ice were as lofty as ever behind her , and the country at her back had vanished from Diamond's view . 
North Wind was as still as Diamond had left her . 
Her pale face was white as the snow , and her motionless eyes were as blue as the caverns in the ice . 
But the instant Diamond touched her , her face began to change like that of one waking from sleep . 
Light began to glimmer from the blue of her eyes . 
A moment more , and she laid her hand on Diamond's head , and began playing with his hair . 
Diamond took hold of her hand , and laid his face to it . 
She gave a little start . 
How very alive you are , child ! she murmured . 
By the help of the stones all around he clambered up beside her , and laid himself against her bosom . 
She gave a great sigh , slowly lifted her arms , and slowly folded them about him , until she clasped him close . 
Yet a moment , and she roused herself , and came quite awake and the cold of her bosom , which had pierced Diamond's bones , vanished . 
Have you been sitting here ever since I went through you , dear North Wind ? asked Diamond , stroking her hand . 
Yes , she answered , looking at him with her old kindness . 
Ain't you very tired ? No I've often had to sit longer . 
Do you know how long you have been ? Oh ! years and years , answered Diamond . 
You have just been seven days , returned North Wind . 
I thought I had been a hundred years ! exclaimed Diamond . 
Yes , I daresay , replied North Wind . 
You've been away from here seven days but how long you may have been in there is quite another thing . 
Behind my back and before my face things are so different ! They don't go at all by the same rule . 
I'm very glad , said Diamond , after thinking a while . 
Why ? asked North Wind . 
Because I've been such a long time there , and such a little while away from mother . 
Why , she won't be expecting me home from Sandwich yet ! No. But we mustn't talk any longer . 
I've got my orders now , and we must be off in a few minutes . 
Next moment Diamond found himself sitting alone on the rock . 
A creature like a great humble bee or cockchafer flew past his face but it could be neither , for there were no insects amongst the ice . 
But she was no longer vapoury and thin . 
She was solid , although tiny . 
A moment more , and she perched on his shoulder . 
Come along , Diamond , she said in his ear , in the smallest and highest of treble voices it is time we were setting out for Sandwich . 
Won't you take me in your arms and carry me ? he said in a whisper , for he knew she did not like a loud voice when she was small . 
It ran very fast indeed for a spider , but Diamond ran a long way before it , and then waited for it . 
It was up with him sooner than he had expected , however , and it had grown a good deal . 
And the weasel grew , and grew , and grew , till all at once Diamond saw that the weasel was not a weasel but a cat . 
And away went the cat , and Diamond after it . 
And when he had run half a mile , he found the cat waiting for him , sitting up and washing her face not to lose time . 
And away went the cat again , and Diamond after it . 
But the next time he came up with the cat , the cat was not a cat , but a hunting leopard . 
And the hunting leopard grew to a jaguar , all covered with spots like eyes . 
And the jaguar grew to a Bengal tiger . 
And at none of them was Diamond afraid , for he had been at North Wind's back , and he could be afraid of her no longer whatever she did or grew . 
And now Diamond felt that he would rather not run any farther , and that the ice had got very rough . 
You dear boy ! It was only in fun . 
Here I am ! said North Wind's voice behind him . 
Diamond turned , and saw her as he liked best to see her , standing beside him , a tall lady . 
Where's the tiger ? he asked , for he knew all the creatures from a picture book that Miss Coleman had given him . 
But , of course , he added , you were the tiger . 
I was puzzled and forgot . 
I saw it such a long way off before me , and there you were behind me . 
It's so odd , you know . 
It must look very odd to you , Diamond I see that . 
But it is no more odd to me than to break an old pine in two . 
Well , that's odd enough , remarked Diamond . 
So it is ! I forgot . 
Well , none of these things are odder to me than it is to you to eat bread and butter . 
Well , that's odd too , when I think of it , persisted Diamond . 
Come then , said North Wind , stooping and holding out her arms . 
You shall have some bread and butter very soon . 
I am glad to find you want some . 
Diamond held up his arms to meet hers , and was safe upon her bosom . 
North Wind bounded into the air . 
They went so fast that the stars themselves appeared to sail away past them overhead , like golden boats , on a blue sea turned upside down . 
And they went so fast that Diamond himself went the other way as fast I mean he went fast asleep in North Wind's arms . 
When he woke , a face was bending over him but it was not North Wind's it was his mother's . 
He put out his arms to her , and she clasped him to her bosom and burst out crying . 
Diamond kissed her again and again to make her stop . 
Perhaps kissing is the best thing for crying , but it will not always stop it . 
What is the matter , mother ? he said . 
Oh , Diamond , my darling ! you have been so ill ! she sobbed . 
I've only been at the back of the north wind , returned Diamond . 
I thought you were dead , said his mother . 
But that moment the doctor came in . 
Oh ! there ! said the doctor with gentle cheerfulness we're better to day , I see . 
Then he drew the mother aside , and told her not to talk to Diamond , or to mind what he might say for he must be kept as quiet as possible . 
They may have forgotten that Miss Coleman was in a very poor state of health . 
Now there were three reasons for this . 
In the first place , her lungs were not strong . 
In the second place , there was a gentleman somewhere who had not behaved very well to her . 
In the third place , she had not anything particular to do . 
These three nots together are enough to make a lady very ill indeed . 
Her fault lay in this , that she had not tried . 
But , to be sure , her father and mother were to blame that they had never set her going . 
Only then again , nobody had told her father and mother that they ought to set her going in that direction . 
So as none of them would find it out of themselves , North Wind had to teach them . 
We know that North Wind was very busy that night on which she left Diamond in the cathedral . 
She had in a sense been blowing through and through the Colemans' house the whole of the night . 
She was considerably worse the next morning . 
Again , the ship which North Wind had sunk that very night belonged to Mr. Coleman . 
Nor will my readers understand what a heavy loss this was to him until I have informed them that he had been getting poorer and poorer for some time . 
He was not so successful in his speculations as he had been , for he speculated a great deal more than was right , and it was time he should be pulled up . 
So North Wind had to look after Mr. Coleman , and try to make an honest man of him . 
So she sank the ship which was his last venture , and he was what himself and his wife and the world called ruined . 
Nor was this all yet . 
Of course , the trouble did not end with Mr. Coleman and his family . 
Before Diamond was well enough to be taken home , there was no home for him to go to . 
Mr. Coleman or his creditors , for I do not know the particulars had sold house , carriage , horses , furniture , and everything . 
For he was not an old man , and hoped yet to retrieve his fortunes . 
Let us hope that he lived to retrieve his honesty , the tail of which had slipped through his fingers to the very last joint , if not beyond it . 
Of course , Diamond's father had nothing to do for a time , but it was not so hard for him to have nothing to do as it was for Miss Coleman . 
Meantime , the gentleman who had bought the house had allowed his furniture to remain where it was for a little while . 
Diamond's aunt was quite willing to keep them as long as she could . 
And indeed Diamond was not yet well enough to be moved with safety . 
He had some business to do further on at Ramsgate , and would pick them up as he returned . 
CHAPTER XIII THE SEASIDE DIAMOND and his mother sat down upon the edge of the rough grass that bordered the sand . 
The sun was just far enough past its highest not to shine in their eyes when they looked eastward . 
A sweet little wind blew on their left side , and comforted the mother without letting her know what it was that comforted her . 
On each hand the shore rounded outwards , forming a little bay . 
There were no white cliffs here , as further north and south , and the place was rather dreary , but the sky got at them so much the better . 
Not a house , not a creature was within sight . 
Dry sand was about their feet , and under them thin wiry grass , that just managed to grow out of the poverty stricken shore . 
Oh dear ! said Diamond's mother , with a deep sigh , it's a sad world ! Is it ? said Diamond . 
How should you know , child ? You've been too well taken care of , I trust . 
Oh yes , I have , returned Diamond . 
I'm sorry ! I thought you were taken care of too . 
I thought my father took care of you . 
I will ask him about it . 
I think he must have forgotten . 
Dear boy ! said his mother . 
your father's the best man in the world . 
So I thought ! returned Diamond with triumph . 
I was sure of it ! Well , doesn't he take very good care of you ? Yes , yes , he does , answered his mother , bursting into tears . 
No , no , child . 
He's not come to that yet . 
But what's to become of us , I don't know . 
Are you very hungry , mother ? There's the basket . 
I thought you put something to eat in it . 
O you darling stupid ! I didn't say I was hungry , returned his mother , smiling through her tears . 
Then I don't understand you at all , said Diamond . 
Do tell me what's the matter . 
There are people in the world who have nothing to eat , Diamond . 
Then I suppose they don't stop in it any longer . 
They they what you call die don't they ? Yes , they do . 
How would you like that ? I don't know . 
But I suppose they go where they get something to eat . 
Like enough they don't want it , said his mother , petulantly . 
That's all right then , said Diamond , thinking I daresay more than he chose to put in words . 
Are you sure , mother ? Sure of what ? Sure that we shall have nothing to eat . 
No , thank Heaven ! I'm not sure of it . 
Then I can't understand it , mother . 
There's a piece of gingerbread in the basket , I know . 
O you little bird ! You have no more sense than a sparrow that picks what it wants , and never thinks of the winter and the frost and , the snow . 
But the birds get through the winter , don't they ? Some of them fall dead on the ground . 
They must die some time . 
They wouldn't like to be birds always . 
Would you , mother ? What a child it is ! thought his mother , but she said nothing . 
Oh ! now I remember , Diamond went on . 
Yes that's all very true . 
So you see the birds are provided for . 
But there are no such barns for you and me , Diamond . 
Ain't there ? No. We've got to work for our bread . 
Then let's go and work , said Diamond , getting up . 
We've not got anything to do . 
Do you know , mother , I think I shall call that basket the barn . 
It's not a very big one . 
And when it's empty where are we then ? At auntie's cupboard , returned Diamond promptly . 
But we can't eat auntie's things all up and leave her to starve . 
We'll go back to father before that . 
He'll have found a cupboard somewhere by that time . 
How do you know that ? I don't know it . 
But I haven't got even a cupboard , and I've always had plenty to eat . 
I've heard you say I had too much , sometimes . 
But I tell you that's because I've had a cupboard for you , child . 
And when yours was empty , auntie opened hers . 
But that can't go on . 
How do you know ? I think there must be a big cupboard somewhere , out of which the little cupboards are filled , you know , mother . 
Well , I wish I could find the door of that cupboard , said his mother . 
But the same moment she stopped , and was silent for a good while . 
I cannot tell whether Diamond knew what she was thinking , but I think I know . 
So , instead of saying anything more , she stretched out her hand for the basket , and she and Diamond had their dinner . 
And Diamond did enjoy it . 
For the drive and the fresh air had made him quite hungry and he did not , like his mother , trouble himself about what they should dine off that day week . 
His mother did not speak much during their dinner . 
After it was over she helped him to walk about a little , but he was not able for much and soon got tired . 
He did not get fretful , though . 
He was too glad of having the sun and the wind again , to fret because he could not run about . 
He lay down on the dry sand , and his mother covered him with a shawl . 
She then sat by his side , and took a bit of work from her pocket . 
But Diamond felt rather sleepy , and turned on his side and gazed sleepily over the sand . 
A few yards off he saw something fluttering . 
What is that , mother ? he said . 
Only a bit of paper , she answered . 
It flutters more than a bit of paper would , I think , said Diamond . 
I'll go and see if you like , said his mother . 
My eyes are none of the best . 
So she rose and went and found that they were both right , for it was a little book , partly buried in the sand . 
But several of its leaves were clear of the sand , and these the wind kept blowing about in a very flutterful manner . 
She took it up and brought it to Diamond . 
What is it , mother ? he asked . 
Some nursery rhymes , I think , she answered . 
I'm too sleepy , said Diamond . 
Do read some of them to me . 
Yes , I will , she said , and began one . 
But this is such nonsense ! she said again . 
I will try to find a better one . 
She turned the leaves searching , but three times , with sudden puffs , the wind blew the leaves rustling back to the same verses . 
Do read that one , said Diamond , who seemed to be of the same mind as the wind . 
I am sure it is a good one . 
So his mother thought it might amuse him , though she couldn't find any sense in it . 
She never thought he might understand it , although she could not . 
Now I do not exactly know what the mother read , but this is what Diamond heard , or thought afterwards that he had heard . 
He was , however , as I have said , very sleepy . 
And when he thought he understood the verses he may have been only dreaming better ones . 
Why don't you go on , mother dear ? he asked . 
It's such nonsense ! said his mother . 
I believe it would go on for ever . 
That's just what it did , said Diamond . 
What did ? she asked . 
That's almost the very tune it used to sing . 
His mother was frightened , for she thought the fever was coming on again . 
So she did not contradict him . 
Who made that poem ? asked Diamond . 
I don't know , she answered . 
Some silly woman for her children , I suppose and then thought it good enough to print . 
She must have been at the back of the north wind some time or other , anyhow , said Diamond . 
She couldn't have got a hold of it anywhere else . 
That's just how it went . 
They lifted Diamond in , and got up themselves , and away they went , home again , home again , home again , as Diamond sang . 
But he soon grew quiet , and before they reached Sandwich he was fast asleep and dreaming of the country at the back of the north wind . 
Now his father having saved a little money , and finding that no situation offered itself , had been thinking over a new plan . 
A strange occurrence it was which turned his thoughts in that direction . 
He had a friend in the Bloomsbury region , who lived by letting out cabs and horses to the cabmen . 
You must have saved a goodish bit , I should think . 
Just come home with me now and look at a horse I can let you have cheap . 
I bought him only a few weeks ago , thinking he'd do for a Hansom , but I was wrong . 
He's got bone enough for a waggon , but a waggon ain't a Hansom . 
He ain't got go enough for a Hansom . 
You see parties as takes Hansoms wants to go like the wind , and he ain't got wind enough , for he ain't so young as he once was . 
But for a four wheeler as takes families and their luggages , he's the very horse . 
He'd carry a small house any day . 
I bought him cheap , and I'll sell him cheap . 
Oh , I don't want him , said Diamond's father . 
A body must have time to think over an affair of so much importance . 
And there's the cab too . 
That would come to a deal of money . 
I could fit you there , I daresay , said his friend . 
But come and look at the animal , anyhow . 
It's a thousand pities to part man and horse . 
So it is , returned his friend sympathetically . 
He ain't handsome , but he's a good un said his owner . 
But the coachman had a lump in his throat and tears in his eyes . 
The coachman's arms were round the horse's neck in a moment , and he fairly broke down and cried . 
The cab master had never been so fond of a horse himself as to hug him like that , but he saw in a moment how it was . 
Diamond's father , as soon as he came to himself , turned and asked how much he wanted for the horse . 
I see you're old friends , said the owner . 
It's my own old Diamond . 
I liked him far the best of the pair , though the other was good . 
You ain't got him too , have you ? No nothing in the stable to match him there . 
I believe you , said the coachman . 
But you'll be wanting a long price for him , I know . 
No , not so much . 
I bought him cheap , and as I say , he ain't for my work . 
The end of it was that Diamond's father bought old Diamond again , along with a four wheeled cab . 
And as there were some rooms to be had over the stable , he took them , wrote to his wife to come home , and set up as a cabman . 
CHAPTER XV THE MEWS IT WAS late in the afternoon when Diamond and his mother and the baby reached London . 
I was so full of Diamond that I forgot to tell you a baby had arrived in the meantime . 
But instead of that , he said to himself it was a fine thing all the old furniture was there . 
Certainly the weather was depressing , for a thick , dull , persistent rain was falling by the time they reached home . 
And with a good fire , and tea and bread and butter , things cannot be said to be miserable . 
Diamond's father and mother were , notwithstanding , rather miserable , and Diamond began to feel a kind of darkness beginning to spread over his own mind . 
But the same moment he said to himself , This will never do . 
I can't give in to this . 
I've been to the back of the north wind . 
Things go right there , and so I must try to get things to go right here . 
I've got to fight the miserable things . 
They shan't make me miserable if I can help it . 
I do not mean that he thought these very words . 
They are perhaps too grown up for him to have thought , but they represent the kind of thing that was in his heart and his head . 
And when heart and head go together , nothing can stand before them . 
What nice bread and butter this is ! said Diamond . 
I'm glad you like it , my dear said his father . 
I bought the butter myself at the little shop round the corner . 
It's very nice , thank you , father . 
Oh , there's baby waking ! I'll take him . 
Sit still , Diamond , said his mother . 
Go on with your bread and butter . 
You're not strong enough to lift him yet . 
So she took the baby herself , and set him on her knee . 
Then Diamond began to amuse him , and went on till the little fellow was shrieking with laughter . 
For the baby's world was his mother's arms and the drizzling rain , and the dreary mews , and even his father's troubled face could not touch him . 
What cared baby for the loss of a hundred situations ? Yet neither father nor mother thought him hard hearted because he crowed and laughed in the middle of their troubles . 
On the contrary , his crowing and laughing were infectious . 
His little heart was so full of merriment that it could not hold it all , and it ran over into theirs . 
Father and mother began to laugh too , and Diamond laughed till he had a fit of coughing which frightened his mother , and made them all stop . 
His father took the baby , and his mother put him to bed . 
And there was no garden more for Diamond to run into when he pleased , with gay flowers about his feet , and solemn sun filled trees over his head . 
Neither was there a wooden wall at the back of his bed with a hole in it for North Wind to come in at when she liked . 
It was dreadful to Diamond to hear the scolding and the crying . 
But it could not make him miserable , because he had been at the back of the north wind . 
If my reader find it hard to believe that Diamond should be so good , he must remember that he had been to the back of the north wind . 
We shall see how he got on . 
CHAPTER XVI DIAMOND MAKES A BEGINNING THE wind blew loud , but Diamond slept a deep sleep , and never heard it . 
My own impression is that every time when Diamond slept well and remembered nothing about it in the morning , he had been all that night at the back of the north wind . 
I am almost sure that was how he woke so refreshed , and felt so quiet and hopeful all the day . 
When he went into her room he found her lighting the fire , and his father just getting out of bed . 
They had only the one room , besides the little one , not much more than a closet , in which Diamond slept . 
He began at once to set things to rights , but the baby waking up , he took him , and nursed him till his mother had got the breakfast ready . 
For our Selves will always do pretty well if we don't pay them too much attention . 
Could Diamond have had greater praise or greater pleasure ? You see when he forgot his Self his mother took care of his Self , and loved and praised his Self . 
Our own praises poison our Selves , and puff and swell them up , till they lose all shape and beauty , and become like great toadstools . 
But the praises of father or mother do our Selves good , and comfort them and make them beautiful . 
They never do them any harm . 
If they do any harm , it comes of our mixing some of our own praises with them , and that turns them nasty and slimy and poisonous . 
Won't you come and see the cab , Diamond ? he said . 
Yes , please , father if mother can spare me a minute , answered Diamond . 
Bless the child ! I don't want him , said his mother cheerfully . 
But as he was following his father out of the door , she called him back . 
Diamond , just hold the baby one minute . 
I have something to say to your father . 
His mother had been listening at the door to the last few lines of his song , and came in with the tears in her eyes . 
She took the baby from him , gave him a kiss , and told him to run to his father . 
By the time Diamond got into the yard , the horse was between the shafts , and his father was looping the traces on . 
Diamond went round to look at the horse . 
The sight of him made him feel very queer . 
He did not know much about different horses , and all other horses than their own were very much the same to him . 
But he could not make it out . 
This was Diamond and it wasn't Diamond . 
Diamond didn't hang his head like that yet the head that was hanging was very like the one that Diamond used to hold so high . 
Ain't it jolly , father ? he said . 
Was there ever anybody so lucky as me ? Dear old Diamond ! And he hugged the horse again , and kissed both his big hairy cheeks . 
He could only manage one at a time , however the other cheek was so far off on the other side of his big head . 
Oh , father , do let me drive a bit , said Diamond , jumping up on the box beside him . 
His father changed places with him at once , putting the reins into his hands . 
Diamond gathered them up eagerly . 
Don't pull at his mouth , said his father . 
just feel , at it gently to let him know you're there and attending to him . 
That's what I call talking to him through the reins . 
Yes , father , I understand , said Diamond . 
Then to the horse he said , Go on Diamond . 
And old Diamond's ponderous bulk began at once to move to the voice of the little boy . 
Diamond ! Diamond ! it cried and Diamond pulled the reins , and the horse stood still as a stone . 
I see already he's a born coachman , said his father proudly . 
Besides , you see , old Diamond's as proud of him as we are our own selves , wife . 
Well , but , husband , I can't do without him to day . 
Everything's got to be done , you know . 
It's my first day here . 
And there's that baby ! Bless you , wife ! I never meant to take him away only to the bottom of Endell Street . 
He can watch his way back . 
No thank you , father not to day , said Diamond . 
Perhaps she'll let me go another day . 
Very well , my man , said his father , and took the reins which Diamond was holding out to him . 
Diamond got down , a little disappointed of course , and went with his mother , who was too pleased to speak . 
She only took hold of his hand as tight as if she had been afraid of his running away instead of glad that he would not leave her . 
And this was the beginning of what came of it . 
The same evening , just as Diamond was feeling tired of the day's work , and wishing his father would come home , Mr. Stonecrop knocked at the door . 
His mother went and opened it . 
Good evening , ma'am , said he . 
Is the little master in ? Yes , to be sure he is at your service , I'm sure , Mr. Stonecrop , said his mother . 
No , no , ma'am it's I'm at his service . 
I'm just a going out with my own cab , and if he likes to come with me , he shall drive my old horse till he's tired . 
It's getting rather late for him , said his mother thoughtfully . 
You see he's been an invalid . 
Oh , well , said Mr. Stonecrop , I can just let him drive through Bloomsbury Square , and then he shall run home again . 
And I'm much obliged to you , said his mother . 
And Diamond , dancing with delight , got his cap , put his hand in Mr. Stonecrop's , and went with him to the yard where the cab was waiting . 
He did not think the horse looked nearly so nice as Diamond , nor Mr. Stonecrop nearly so grand as his father but he was none , the less pleased . 
He got up on the box , and his new friend got up beside him . 
What's the horse's name ? whispered Diamond , as he took the reins from the man . 
It's not a nice name , said Mr. Stonecrop . 
You needn't call him by it . 
I didn't give it him . 
He'll go well enough without it . 
Give the boy a whip , Jack . 
I never carries one when I drive old He didn't finish the sentence . 
Jack handed Diamond a whip , with which , by holding it half down the stick , he managed just to flack the haunches of the horse and away he went . 
Diamond learned to drive all the sooner that he had been accustomed to do what he was told , and could obey the smallest hint in a moment . 
Nothing helps one to get on like that . 
With an obedient mind one learns the rights of things fast enough for it is the law of the universe , and to obey is to understand . 
Look out ! cried Mr. Stonecrop , as they were turning the corner into Bloomsbury Square . 
It was getting dusky now . 
A cab was approaching rather rapidly from the opposite direction , and Diamond pulling aside , and the other driver pulling up , they only just escaped a collision . 
Then they knew each other . 
Why , Diamond , it's a bad beginning to run into your own father , cried the driver . 
But , father , wouldn't it have been a bad ending to run into your own son ? said Diamond in return and the two men laughed heartily . 
This is very kind of you , I'm sure , Stonecrop , said his father . 
He's a brave fellow , and'll be fit to drive on his own hook in a week or two . 
Come along then , Diamond , said his father , as he brought his cab up to the other , and moved off the box to the seat beside it . 
Nor did his father find it necessary to give him a single hint as to his driving . 
Only I suspect the fact that it was old Diamond , and old Diamond on his way to his stable , may have had something to do with young Diamond's success . 
Well , child , said his mother , when he entered the room , you've not been long gone . 
No , mother here I am . 
The baby's asleep , said his mother . 
Then give him to me , and I'll lay him down . 
But as Diamond took him , he woke up and began to laugh . 
For he was indeed one of the merriest children . 
And no wonder , for he was as plump as a plum pudding , and had never had an ache or a pain that lasted more than five minutes at a time . 
Diamond sat down with him and began to sing to him . 
CHAPTER XVII DIAMOND GOES ON DIAMOND became a great favourite with all the men about the mews . 
Some may think it was not the best place in the world for him to be brought up in but it must have been , for there he was . 
At first , he heard a good many rough and bad words but he did not like them , and so they did him little harm . 
So they did not even stick to him , not to say get inside him . 
He never took any notice of them , and his face shone pure and good in the middle of them , like a primrose in a hailstorm . 
And before long the bad words found themselves ashamed to come out of the men's mouths when Diamond was near . 
The one would nudge the other to remind him that the boy was within hearing , and the words choked themselves before they got any farther . 
When they talked to him nicely he had always a good answer , sometimes a smart one , ready , and that helped much to make them change their minds about him . 
One day Jack gave him a curry comb and a brush to try his hand upon old Diamond's coat . 
He used them so deftly , so gently , and yet so thoroughly , as far as he could reach , that the man could not help admiring him . 
You must make haste and , grow he said . 
It won't do to have a horse's belly clean and his back dirty , you know . 
Give me a leg , said Diamond , and in a moment he was on the old horse's back with the comb and brush . 
When that was done he asked for a dressing comb , and combed his mane thoroughly . 
Then he pushed himself on to his back , and did his shoulders as far down as he could reach . 
Then he sat on his croup , and did his back and sides then he turned around like a monkey , and attacked his hind quarters , and combed his tail . 
But that was all a pretence , for he knew very well who it was that was perched on his back , and rubbing away at him with the comb and the brush . 
I won't vouch for what the old horse was thinking , for it is very difficult to find out what any old horse is thinking . 
Oh dear ! said Diamond when he had done , I'm so tired ! And he laid himself down at full length on old Diamond's back . 
By this time all the men in the stable were gathered about the two Diamonds , and all much amused . 
One of them lifted him down , and from that time he was a greater favourite than before . 
His mother , however , was a little shy of the company for him , and besides she could not always spare him . 
Also his father liked to have him himself when he could so that he was more desired than enjoyed among the cabmen . 
But one way and another he did learn to drive all sorts of horses , and to drive them well , and that through the most crowded streets in London City . 
Of course there was the man always on the box seat beside him , but before long there was seldom the least occasion to take the reins from out of his hands . 
For one thing he never got frightened , and consequently was never in too great a hurry . 
Yet when the moment came for doing something sharp , he was always ready for it . 
I must once more remind my readers that he had been to the back of the north wind . 
After a stray job or two by the way , they drew up in the row upon the stand between Cockspur Street and Pall Mall . 
They waited a long time , but nobody seemed to want to be carried anywhere . 
By and by ladies would be going home from the Academy exhibition , and then there would be a chance of a job . 
To be sure it's the law but mayhap they may get more law than they like some day themselves . 
As it was very hot , Diamond's father got down to have a glass of beer himself , and give another to the old waterman . 
He left Diamond on the box . 
A sudden noise got up , and Diamond looked round to see what was the matter . 
There was a crossing near the cab stand , where a girl was sweeping . 
Some rough young imps had picked a quarrel with her , and were now hauling at her broom to get it away from her . 
But as they did not pull all together , she was holding it against them , scolding and entreating alternately . 
Diamond was off his box in a moment , and running to the help of the girl . 
He got hold of the broom at her end and pulled along with her . 
But presently his father came back , and missing Diamond , looked about . 
He had to look twice , however , before he could be sure that that was his boy in the middle of the tumult . 
He rushed in , and sent the assailants flying in all directions . 
The girl thanked Diamond , and began sweeping as if nothing had happened , while his father led him away . 
I couldn't let them behave so to a poor girl could I , father ? he said . 
Certainly not , Diamond , said his father , quite pleased , for Diamond's father was a gentleman . 
When they reached the curbstone who should it be waiting for the cab but Mrs. and Miss Coleman ! They did not look at the cabman , however . 
The girl opened the door for them they gave her the address , and a penny she told the cabman , and away they drove . 
When they reached the house , Diamond's father got down and rang the bell . 
As he opened the door of the cab , he touched his hat as he had been wont to do . 
It's a lucky day which I see you once more upon it . 
Who would have thought it ? said Mrs. Coleman . 
But to think we should have fallen upon you , of all the cabmen in London ! I didn't know you had got a cab . 
Well , you see , ma'am , I had a chance of buying the old horse , and I couldn't resist him . 
There he is , looking at you , ma'am . 
Nobody knows the sense in that head of his . 
The two ladies went near to pat the horse , and then they noticed Diamond on the box . 
Why , you've got both Diamonds with you , said Miss Coleman . 
How do you do , Diamond ? Diamond lifted his cap , and answered politely . 
He'll be fit to drive himself before long , said his father , proudly . 
The old horse is a teaching of him . 
Well , he must come and see us , now you've found us out . 
It was your own old horse as took you and me you paid long ago . 
It was a long time now since Diamond had seen North Wind , or even thought much about her . 
But he could not quite satisfy himself whether the whole affair was not a dream which he had dreamed when he was a very little boy . 
They were just clearing the rubbish away . 
Diamond's father turned , and made for Charing Cross . 
That night the father and mother had a great deal to talk about . 
Poor things ! said the mother . 
it's worse for them than it is for us . 
You see they've been used to such grand things , and for them to come down to a little poky house like that it breaks my heart to think of it . 
I don't know said Diamond thoughtfully , whether Mrs. Coleman had bells on her toes . 
What do you mean , child ? said his mother . 
She had rings on her fingers , anyhow , returned Diamond . 
Of course she had , as any lady would . 
Bless the child he forgets nothing , said his mother . 
Really , Diamond , a body would need to mind what they say to you . 
I only think about it . 
That's just why , said the mother . 
Mrs. Coleman is none so poor as all that yet . 
No , thank Heaven ! she's not come to that . 
Is it a great disgrace to be poor ? asked Diamond , because of the tone in which his mother had spoken . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE DRUNKEN CABMAN A FEW nights after this , Diamond woke up suddenly , believing he heard North Wind thundering along . 
But it was something quite different . 
South Wind was moaning round the chimneys , to be sure , for she was not very happy that night , but it was not her voice that had wakened Diamond . 
Her voice would only have lulled him the deeper asleep . 
It was anything but pleasant to hear , but he could not help hearing it . 
At length there came a cry from the woman , and then a scream from the baby . 
Thereupon Diamond thought it time that somebody did something , and as himself was the only somebody at hand , he must go and see whether he could not do something . 
This , fortunately , the cabman , being drunk , had left open . 
By the time he reached their stair , all was still except the voice of the crying baby , which guided him to the right door . 
He opened it softly , and peeped in . 
His wife lay in her clothes upon the bed , sobbing , and the baby was wailing in the cradle . 
It was very miserable altogether . 
Now the way most people do when they see anything very miserable is to turn away from the sight , and try to forget it . 
But Diamond began as usual to try to destroy the misery . 
The little boy was just as much one of God's messengers as if he had been an angel with a flaming sword , going out to fight the devil . 
The devil he had to fight just then was Misery . 
And the way he fought him was the very best . 
I have known people who would have begun to fight the devil in a very different and a very stupid way . 
But Diamond had him out of the cradle in a moment , set him up on his knee , and told him to look at the light . 
It was that he had struck his wife . 
He had forgotten it , but was miserable about it , notwithstanding . 
For that great Love speaks in the most wretched and dirty hearts only the tone of its voice depends on the echoes of the place in which it sounds . 
On Mount Sinai , it was thunder in the cabman's heart it was misery in the soul of St . 
John it was perfect blessedness . 
By and by he became aware that there was a voice of singing in the room . 
At length Diamond grew tired of singing , and began to talk to the baby instead . 
And as soon as he stopped singing , the cabman began to wake up . 
His brain was a little clearer now , his temper a little smoother , and his heart not quite so dirty . 
Baby's daddy would never hit baby's mammy if he didn't take too much beer . 
And they put nasty stuff in beer , I've heard my daddy say , that drives all the good out , and lets all the bad in . 
Daddy says when a man takes a drink , there's a thirsty devil creeps into his inside , because he knows he will always get enough there . 
And the devil is always crying out for more drink , and that makes the man thirsty , and so he drinks more and more , till he kills himself with it . 
That's what my daddy says , baby . 
For Diamond's face was always rather pale , and now it was paler than usual with sleeplessness , and the light of the street lamp upon it . 
At length he found himself nodding , and he knew then it was time to put the baby down , lest he should let him fall . 
Wife , said the cabman , turning towards the bed , I do somehow believe that wur a angel just gone . 
Did you see him , wife ? He warn't wery big , and he hadn't got none o' them wingses , you know . 
It wur one o' them baby angels you sees on the gravestones , you know . 
Nonsense , hubby ! said his wife but it's just as good . 
I might say better , for you can ketch hold of him when you like . 
That's little Diamond as everybody knows , and a duck o' diamonds he is ! No woman could wish for a better child than he be . 
I ha' heerd on him in the stable , but I never see the brat afore . 
Come , old girl , let bygones be bygones , and gie us a kiss , and we'll go to bed . 
The cabman kept his cab in another yard , although he had his room in this . 
He was often late in coming home , and was not one to take notice of children , especially when he was tipsy , which was oftener than not . 
Hence , if he had ever seen Diamond , he did not know him . 
But his wife knew him well enough , as did every one else who lived all day in the yard . 
She was a good natured woman . 
It was she who had got the fire lighted and the tea ready for them when Diamond and his mother came home from Sandwich . 
Indeed , he was never quite so bad after that , though it was some time before he began really to reform . 
And first of all he strolled with his hands in his pockets up to the crossing , where the girl and her broom were to be found in all weathers . 
Just as he was going to speak to her , a tall gentleman stepped upon the crossing . 
Whom do you live with ? he asked . 
My wicked old grannie , she replied . 
You shouldn't call your grannie wicked , said the gentleman . 
But she is , said the girl , looking up confidently in his face . 
If you don't believe me , you can come and take a look at her . 
The words sounded rude , but the girl's face looked so simple that the gentleman saw she did not mean to be rude , and became still more interested in her . 
Still you shouldn't say so , he insisted . 
Shouldn't I ? Everybody calls her wicked old grannie even them that's as wicked as her . 
You should hear her swear . 
There's nothing like it in the Row . 
Indeed , I assure you , sir , there's ne'er a one of them can shut my grannie up once she begins and gets right a going . 
You must put her in a passion first , you know . 
It's no good till you do that she's so old now . 
How she do make them laugh , to be sure ! Although she called her wicked , the child spoke so as plainly to indicate pride in her grannie's pre eminence in swearing . 
The gentleman looked very grave to hear her , for he was sorry that such a nice little girl should be in such bad keeping . 
But he did not know what to say next , and stood for a moment with his eyes on the ground . 
When he lifted them , he saw the face of Diamond looking up in his . 
Please , sir , said Diamond , her grannie's very cruel to her sometimes , and shuts her out in the streets at night , if she happens to be late . 
Is this your brother ? asked the gentleman of the girl . 
How does he know your grandmother , then ? He does not look like one of her sort . 
Oh no , sir ! He's a good boy quite . 
Here she tapped her forehead with her finger in a significant manner . 
What do you mean by that ? asked the gentleman , while Diamond looked on smiling . 
The cabbies call him God's baby , she whispered . 
He's not right in the head , you know . 
Still Diamond , though he heard every word , and understood it too , kept on smiling . 
Drive a cab , said Diamond . 
Nurse a baby , said Diamond . 
Well and what else ? Clean father's boots , and make him a bit of toast for his tea . 
You're a useful little man , said the gentleman . 
What else can you do ? Not much that I know of , said Diamond . 
I can't curry a horse , except somebody puts me on his back . 
So I don't count that . 
Can you read ? No. But mother can and father can , and they're going to teach me some day soon . 
Well , here's a penny for you . 
And when you have learned to read , come to me , and I'll give you sixpence and a book with fine pictures in it . 
You're no such silly ! thought he , as he put his hand in his pocket , and brought out a card . 
There , he said , your father will be able to read that , and tell you where to go . 
Thank you , sir , said Diamond , and put the card in his pocket . 
You may have my penny . 
The girl put it beside the other in her pocket , the only trustworthy article of dress she wore . 
Her grandmother always took care that she had a stout pocket . 
Is she as cruel as ever ? asked Diamond . 
But I gets more coppers now than I used to , and I can get summats to eat , and take browns enough home besides to keep her from grumbling . 
It's a good thing she's so blind , though . 
Doesn't she watch you , then ? O' course she do . 
Don't she just ! But I make believe and drop it in my lap , and then hitch it into my pocket . 
What would she do if she found you out ? She never give me no more . 
But you don't want it ! Yes , I do want it . 
What do you do with it , then ? Give it to cripple Jim . 
Who's cripple Jim ? A boy in the Row . 
His mother broke his leg when he wur a kid , so he's never come to much but he's a good boy , is Jim , and I love Jim dearly . 
I always keeps off a penny for Jim leastways as often as I can . 
But there I must sweep again , for them busses makes no end o' dirt . 
Diamond ! Diamond ! cried his father , who was afraid he might get no good by talking to the girl and Diamond obeyed , and got up again upon the box . 
He told his father about the gentleman , and what he had promised him if he would learn to read , and showed him the gentleman's card . 
Why , it's not many doors from the Mews ! said his father , giving him back the card . 
Take care of it , my boy , for it may lead to something . 
God knows , in these hard times a man wants as many friends as he's ever likely to get . 
Haven't you got friends enough , father ? asked Diamond . 
Well , I have no right to complain but the more the better , you know . 
Just let me count , said Diamond . 
And he took his hands from his pockets , and spreading out the fingers of his left hand , began to count , beginning at the thumb . 
There's mother , first , and then baby , and then me . 
Next there's old Diamond and the cab no , I won't count the cab , for it never looks at you , and when Diamond's out of the shafts , it's nobody . 
Then there's the man that drinks next door , and his wife , and his baby . 
They're no friends of mine , said his father . 
Well , they're friends of mine , said Diamond . 
Much good they'll do you ! he said . 
How do you know they won't ? returned Diamond . 
Well , go on , said his father . 
Then there's Jack and Mr. Stonecrop , and , deary me ! not to have mentioned Mr. Coleman and Mrs. Coleman , and Miss Coleman , and Mrs. Crump . 
And then there's the clergyman that spoke to me in the garden that day the tree was blown down . 
What's his name ! I don't know his name . 
Where does he live ? I don't know . 
How can you count him , then ? He did talk to me , and very kindlike too . 
Why , child , you're just counting everybody you know . 
That don't make 'em friends . 
Don't it ? I thought it did . 
Well , but they shall be my friends . 
How will you do that ? They can't help themselves then , if they would . 
If I choose to be their friend , you know , they can't prevent me . 
Then there's that girl at the crossing . 
A fine set of friends you do have , to be sure , Diamond ! Surely she's a friend anyhow , father . 
If it hadn't been for her , you would never have got Mrs. Coleman and Miss Coleman to carry home . 
His father was silent , for he saw that Diamond was right , and was ashamed to find himself more ungrateful than he had thought . 
Then there's the new gentleman , Diamond went on . 
If he do as he say , interposed his father . 
And why shouldn't he ? I daresay sixpence ain't too much for him to spare . 
But I don't quite understand , father is nobody your friend but the one that does something for you ? No , I won't say that , my boy . 
You would have to leave out baby then . 
Oh no , I shouldn't . 
Baby can laugh in your face , and crow in your ears , and make you feel so happy . 
Call you that nothing , father ? The father's heart was fairly touched now . 
Within a month he was able to spell out most of the verses for himself . 
But he had never come upon the poem he thought he had heard his mother read from it that day . 
So he wisely gave up the search till he could really read . 
Then he resolved to begin at the beginning , and read them all straight through . 
This took him nearly a fortnight . 
LITTLE BOY BLUE Little Boy Blue lost his way in a wood . 
Sing apples and cherries , roses and honey He said , I would not go back if I could , It's all so jolly and funny . 
A little snake crept out of the tree , Apples and cherries , roses and honey Lie down at my feet , little snake , said he , All so jolly and funny . 
A little bird sang in the tree overhead , Apples and cherries , roses and honey Come and sing your song on my finger instead , All so jolly and funny . 
The snake coiled up and the bird flew down , And sang him the song of Birdie Brown . 
Little Boy Blue found it tiresome to sit , And he thought he had better walk on a bit . 
So up he got , his way to take , And he said , Come along , little bird and snake . 
He came where the apples grew red and sweet Tree , drop me an apple down at my feet . 
He came where the cherries hung plump and red Come to my mouth , sweet kisses , he said . 
And the boughs bow down , and the apples they dapple The grass , too many for him to grapple . 
And the cheeriest cherries , with never a miss , Fall to his mouth , each a full grown kiss . 
He met a little brook singing a song . 
He said , Little brook , you are going wrong . 
You must follow me , follow me , follow , I say Do as I tell you , and come this way . 
And the song singing , sing songing forest brook Leaped from its bed and after him took , Followed him , followed . 
And pale and wan , The dead leaves rustled as the water ran . 
The spider forgot and followed him spinning , And lost all his thread from end to beginning . 
The gay wasp forgot his rings and his waist , He never had made such undignified haste . 
The dragon flies melted to mist with their hurrying . 
The mole in his moleskins left his barrowing burrowing . 
The bees went buzzing , so busy and beesy , And the midges in columns so upright and easy . 
And he said to the wind , Come , follow come , follow , With whistle and pipe , and rustle and hollo . 
And the wind wound round at his desire , As if he had been the gold cock on the spire . 
And the cock itself flew down from the church , And left the farmers all in the lurch . 
They run and they fly , they creep and they come , Everything , everything , all and some . 
Little Boy Blue sat down on a stone , And the creatures came round him every one . 
And he said to the clouds , I want you there . 
And down they sank through the thin blue air . 
And he said to the sunset far in the West , Come here I want you I know best . 
And the sunset came and stood up on the wold , And burned and glowed in purple and gold . 
Then Little Boy Blue began to ponder What's to be done with them all , I wonder . 
Then Little Boy Blue , he said , quite low , What to do with you all I am sure I don't know . 
No , no no , no no , yes , and no , no , Sang Birdie Brown , it mustn't be so . 
We cannot for nothing come here , and away . 
Give us some work , or else we stay . 
Oh dear ! and oh dear ! with sob and with sigh , Said Little Boy Blue , and began to cry . 
But before he got far , he thought of a thing And up he stood , and spoke like a king . 
Why do you hustle and jostle and bother ? Off with you all ! Take me back to my mother . 
The sunset stood at the gates of the west . 
Follow me , follow me came from Birdie Brown's breast . 
I am going that way as fast as I can , Said the brook , as it sank and turned and ran . 
Back to the woods fled the shadows like ghosts If we stay , we shall all be missed from our posts . 
Said the wind with a voice that had changed its cheer , I was just going there , when you brought me here . 
That's where I live , said the sack backed squirrel , And he turned his sack with a swing and a swirl . 
Said the cock of the spire , His father's churchwarden . 
Said the brook running faster , I run through his garden . 
Said the mole , Two hundred worms there I caught 'em Last year , and I'm going again next autumn . 
If that you won't do , I'll get up at once , and go home without you . 
I think I will I begin to doubt you . 
He rose and up rose the snake on its tail , And hissed three times , half a hiss , half a wail . 
Little Boy Blue he tried to go past him But wherever he turned , sat the snake and faced him . 
If you don't get out of my way , he said , I tell you , snake , I will break your head . 
The snake he neither would go nor come So he hit him hard with the stick of his drum . 
The snake fell down as if he were dead , And Little Boy Blue set his foot on his head . 
And all the creatures they marched before him , And marshalled him home with a high cockolorum . 
And Birdie Brown sang Twirrrr twitter twirrrr twee Apples and cherries , roses and honey Little Boy Blue has listened to me All so jolly and funny . 
CHAPTER XXI SAL'S NANNY DIAMOND managed with many blunders to read this rhyme to his mother . 
Isn't it nice , mother ? he said . 
Yes , it's pretty , she answered . 
I think it means something , returned Diamond . 
I'm sure I don't know what , she said . 
I wonder if it's the same boy yes , it must be the same Little Boy Blue , you know . 
He had a drum too . 
Little Boy Blue , come blow me your horn The sheep's in the meadow , the cow's in the corn , He had to keep them out , you know . 
But he wasn't minding his work . 
It goes Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep ? He's under the haystack , fast asleep . 
There , you see , mother ! And then , let me see Who'll go and wake him ? No , not I For if I do , he'll be sure to cry . 
So I suppose nobody did wake him . 
He was a rather cross little boy , I daresay , when woke up . 
Don't you think that's very likely , mother ? I shouldn't wonder , she answered . 
So you see he was naughty for even when he lost himself he did not want to go home . 
Any of the creatures would have shown him the way if he had asked it all but the snake . 
He followed the snake , you know , and he took him farther away . 
I suppose it was a young one of the same serpent that tempted Adam and Eve . 
Father was telling us about it last Sunday , you remember . 
Bless the child ! said his mother to herself and then added aloud , finding that Diamond did not go on , Well , what next ? I don't know , mother . 
I'm sure there's a great deal more , but what it is I can't say . 
I only know that he killed the snake . 
I suppose that's what he had a drumstick for . 
He couldn't do it with his horn . 
But surely you're not such a silly as to take it all for true , Diamond ? I think it must be . 
That killing of the snake looks true . 
It's what I've got to do so often . 
Diamond smiled full in her face , and added When baby cries and won't be happy , and when father and you talk about your troubles , I mean . 
Finding she made no reply , Diamond went on In a week or so , I shall be able to go to the tall gentleman and tell him I can read . 
And I'll ask him if he can help me to understand the rhyme . 
But before the week was out , he had another reason for going to Mr. Raymond . 
All right , said his father . 
Only take care of yourself , Diamond . 
So saying he climbed on his box and drove off . 
He had great confidence in his boy , you see , and would trust him anywhere . 
But if he had known the kind of place in which the girl lived , he would perhaps have thought twice before he allowed him to go alone . 
Diamond , who did know something of it , had not , however , any fear . 
That's a long way off , said the policeman . 
Yes , it's a good distance , answered Diamond but I find my way about pretty well . 
Policemen are always kind to me . 
But what on earth do you want here ? Diamond told him plainly what he was about , and of course the man believed him , for nobody ever disbelieved Diamond . 
People might think he was mistaken , but they never thought he was telling a story . 
It's an ugly place , said the policeman . 
Is it far off ? asked Diamond . 
No. It's next door almost . 
Nobody hurts me , said Diamond . 
I must go with you , I suppose . 
Oh , no ! please not , said Diamond . 
They might think I was going to meddle with them , and I ain't , you know . 
Well , do as you please , said the man , and gave him full directions . 
He's a sharp little kid , anyhow , for as simple as he looks , said the man to himself . 
Not a wrong turn does he take ! But old Sal's a rum un for such a child to pay a morning visit to . 
She's worse when she's sober than when she's half drunk . 
I've seen her when she'd have torn him in pieces . 
Happily then for Diamond , old Sal had gone out to get some gin . 
When he came to her door at the bottom of the area stair and knocked , he received no answer . 
He laid his ear to the door , and thought he heard a moaning within . 
And the smell in the place was dreadful . 
He went up to her and spoke but she made him no answer . 
Indeed , she was not in the least aware of his presence , and Diamond saw that he could do nothing for her without help . 
By the time he got up the area steps , three or four women who had seen him go down were standing together at the top waiting for him . 
They wanted his clothes for their children but they did not follow him down lest Sal should find them there . 
The moment he appeared , they laid their hands on him , and all began talking at once , for each wanted to get some advantage over her neighbours . 
He told them quite quietly , for he was not frightened , that he had come to see what was the matter with Nanny . 
What do you know about Nanny ? said one of them fiercely . 
Wait till old Sal comes home , and you'll catch it , for going prying into her house when she's out . 
If you don't give me your jacket directly , I'll go and fetch her . 
I can't give you my jacket , said Diamond . 
It belongs to my father and mother , you know . 
It's not mine to give . 
But if the jacket ain't yours , what right have you to keep it ? Here , Cherry , make haste . 
It'll be one go apiece . 
They all began to tug at the jacket , while Diamond stooped and kept his arms bent to resist them . 
You had better have let me come with you , little man , he said , looking down in Diamond's face , which was flushed with his resistance . 
You came just in the right time , thank you , returned Diamond . 
They've done me no harm . 
They would have if I hadn't been at hand , though . 
Yes but you were at hand , you know , so they couldn't . 
Perhaps the answer was deeper in purport than either Diamond or the policeman knew . 
They walked away together , Diamond telling his new friend how ill poor Nanny was , and that he was going to let the tall gentleman know . 
The policeman put him in the nearest way for Bloomsbury , and stepping out in good earnest , Diamond reached Mr. Raymond's door in less than an hour . 
When he asked if he was at home , the servant , in return , asked what he wanted . 
I want to tell him something . 
But I can't go and trouble him with such a message as that . 
He told me to come to him that is , when I could read and I can . 
How am I to know that ? Diamond stared with astonishment for one moment , then answered Why , I've just told you . 
That's how you know it . 
He had not waited long before the door opened again but when he looked round , it was only the servant once more . 
Get , away he said . 
What are you doing on the doorstep ? Waiting for Mr. Raymond , answered Diamond , getting up . 
Then I'll wait till he comes , returned Diamond , sitting down again with a smile . 
What the man would have done next I do not know , but a step sounded from the hall , and when Diamond looked round yet again , there was the tall gentleman . 
Who's this , John ? he asked . 
I don't know , sir . 
An imperent little boy as will sit on the doorstep . 
Please sir said Diamond , he told me you weren't at home , and I sat down to wait for you . 
Eh , what ! said Mr. Raymond . 
John ! John ! This won't do . 
Come in , my little man . 
I suppose you've come to claim your sixpence ? No , sir , not that . 
What ! can't you read yet ? Yes , I can now , a little . 
But I'll come for that next time . 
I came to tell you about Sal's Nanny . 
Who's Sal's Nanny ? The girl at the crossing you talked to the same day . 
Oh , yes I remember . 
What's the matter ? Has she got run over ? Then Diamond told him all . 
Now Mr. Raymond was one of the kindest men in London . 
He sent at once to have the horse put to the brougham , took Diamond with him , and drove to the Children's Hospital . 
There he was well known to everybody , for he was not only a large subscriber , but he used to go and tell the children stories of an afternoon . 
One of the doctors promised to go and find Nanny , and do what could be done have her brought to the hospital , if possible . 
So she was soon lying in the fever ward for the first time in her life in a nice clean bed . 
But she knew nothing of the whole affair . 
She was too ill to know anything . 
RAYMOND took Diamond home with him , stopping at the Mews to tell his mother that he would send him back soon . 
Diamond ran in with the message himself , and when he reappeared he had in his hand the torn and crumpled book which North Wind had given him . 
Ah ! I see , said Mr. Raymond you are going to claim your sixpence now . 
I wasn't thinking of that so much as of another thing , said Diamond . 
There's a rhyme in this book I can't quite understand . 
I want you to tell me what it means , if you please . 
I will if I can , answered Mr. Raymond . 
You shall read it to me when we get home , and then I shall see . 
Still with a good many blunders , Diamond did read it after a fashion . 
Mr. Raymond took the little book and read it over again . 
Now Mr. Raymond was a poet himself , and so , although he had never been at the back of the north wind , he was able to understand the poem pretty well . 
But before saying anything about it , he read it over aloud , and Diamond thought he understood it much better already . 
I'll tell you what I think it means , he then said . 
It means that people may have their way for a while , if they like , but it will get them into such troubles they'll wish they hadn't had it . 
I know , I know ! said Diamond . 
Like the poor cabman next door . 
Just so , returned Mr. Raymond . 
But when people want to do right , things about them will try to help them . 
Only they must kill the snake , you know . 
I was sure the snake had something to do with it , cried Diamond triumphantly . 
A good deal more talk followed , and Mr. Raymond gave Diamond his sixpence . 
What will you do with it ? he asked . 
Take it home to my mother , he answered . 
She has a teapot such a black one ! with a broken spout , and she keeps all her money in it . 
It ain't much but she saves it up to buy shoes for me . 
And there's baby coming on famously , and he'll want shoes soon . 
And every sixpence is something ain't it , sir ? To be sure , my man . 
I hope you'll always make as good a use of your money . 
I hope so , sir , said Diamond . 
And here's a book for you , full of pictures and stories and poems . 
I wrote it myself , chiefly for the children of the hospital where I hope Nanny is going . 
I don't mean I printed it , you know . 
I made it , added Mr. Raymond , wishing Diamond to understand that he was the author of the book . 
I know what you mean . 
They're awfully silly , but they please baby , and that's all they're meant for . 
Couldn't you let me hear one of them now ? said Mr. Raymond . 
No , sir , I couldn't . 
I forget them as soon as I've done with them . 
Besides , I couldn't make a line without baby on my knee . 
We make them together , you know . 
They're just as much baby's as mine . 
It's he that pulls them out of me . 
I suspect the child's a genius , said the poet to himself , and that's what makes people think him silly . 
God makes a few such now and then to teach the rest of us . 
Do you like riddles ? asked Mr. Raymond , turning over the leaves of his own book . 
I don't know what a riddle is , said Diamond . 
It's something that means something else , and you've got to find out what the something else is . 
Mr. Raymond liked the old fashioned riddle best , and had written a few one of which he now read . 
I have only one foot , but thousands of toes My one foot stands , but never goes . 
I have many arms , and they're mighty all And hundreds of fingers , large and small . 
From the ends of my fingers my beauty grows . 
I breathe with my hair , and I drink with my toes . 
I grow bigger and bigger about the waist , And yet I am always very tight laced . 
None e'er saw me eat I've no mouth to bite Yet I eat all day in the full sunlight . 
In the summer with song I shave and quiver , But in winter I fast and groan and shiver . 
Do you know what that means , Diamond ? he asked , when he had finished . 
No , indeed , I don't , answered Diamond . 
Then you can read it for yourself , and think over it , and see if you can find out , said Mr. Raymond , giving him the book . 
And now you had better go home to your mother . 
When you've found the riddle , you can come again . 
If Diamond had had to find out the riddle in order to see Mr. Raymond again , I doubt if he would ever have seen him . 
Oh then , I think I hear some little reader say , he could not have been a genius , for a genius finds out things without being told . 
I answer , Genius finds out truths , not tricks . 
And if you do not understand that , I am afraid you must be content to wait till you grow older and know more . 
The next day he was forced to keep his bed , and his wife nursed him , and Diamond attended to the baby . 
But long before his father got well , his mother's savings were all but gone . 
She thought Diamond was asleep , but he was not . 
Then what are you crying for , mother ? Because my money is almost all gone , she replied . 
O mammy , you make me think of a little poem baby and I learned out of North Wind's book to day . 
Don't you remember how I bothered you about some of the words ? Yes , child , said his mother heedlessly , thinking only of what she should do after to morrow . 
Diamond began and repeated the poem , for he had a wonderful memory . 
She had filled her own just over full , And hence she was feeling a little dull . 
There's five in my crop , said a wee , wee bird , Which woke at the voice of his mother's pain I know where there's five . 
And with the word He tucked in his head , and went off again . 
The folly of childhood , sighed his mother , Has always been my especial bother . 
For she never can tell the night before , Where she shall find one red worm more . 
Diamond lay awake for a few minutes , thinking what he could do to catch worms . 
It was very little trouble to make up his mind , however , and still less to go to sleep after it . 
CHAPTER XXIV ANOTHER EARLY BIRD HE GOT up in the morning as soon as he heard the men moving in the yard . 
When he got into the yard he found the stable door just opened . 
I'm the early bird , I think , he said to himself . 
I hope I shall catch the worm . 
He would not ask any one to help him , fearing his project might meet with disapproval and opposition . 
With great difficulty , but with the help of a broken chair he brought down from his bedroom , he managed to put the harness on Diamond . 
He fastened the cheek strap very carefully , just in the usual hole , for fear of choking his friend , or else letting the bit get amongst his teeth . 
It was a job to get the saddle on but with the chair he managed it . 
The collar was almost the worst part of the business but there Diamond could help Diamond . 
He held his head very low till his little master had got it over and turned it round , and then he lifted his head , and shook it on to his shoulders . 
The yoke was rather difficult but when he had laid the traces over the horse's neck , the weight was not too much for him . 
He got him right at last , and led him out of the stable . 
By this time there were several of the men watching him , but they would not interfere , they were so anxious to see how he would get over the various difficulties . 
Then he got his whip . 
The moment he mounted the box , the men broke into a hearty cheer of delight at his success . 
The cheer brought his mother to the window , and there she saw her little boy setting out alone with the cab in the gray of morning . 
She called Diamond ! Diamond ! but there was no answer except from Jack . 
Never fear for him , ma'am , said Jack . 
It 'ud be only a devil as would hurt him , and there ain't so many o' them as some folk 'ud have you believe . 
But he won't upset the cab , will he , Jack ? Not he , ma'am . 
Leastways he won't go for to do it . 
I know as much as that myself . 
What do you mean ? I mean he's a little likely to do it as the oldest man in the stable . 
He knew pretty well , however , what his boy was capable of , and although not quite easy was less anxious than his mother . 
Diamond had resolved to go straight to the cab stand where he was best known , and never to crawl for fear of getting annoyed by idlers . 
Having carried him to King's Cross in good time , and got a good fare in return , he set off again in great spirits , and reached the stand in safety . 
He was the first there after all . 
As the men arrived they all greeted him kindly , and inquired after his father . 
Ain't you afraid of the old 'oss running away with you ? asked one . 
No , he wouldn't run away with me , answered Diamond . 
He knows I'm getting the shillings for father . 
Or if he did he would only run home . 
Well , you're a plucky one , for all your girl's looks ! said the man and I wish ye luck . 
Thank you , sir , said Diamond . 
I'll do what I can . 
I came to the old place , you see , because I knew you would let me have my turn here . 
Once , in a block , a policeman came up to him , and asked him for his number . 
Diamond showed him his father's badge , saying with a smile Father's ill at home , and so I came out with the cab . 
There's no fear of me . 
Besides , the old horse could go alone . 
Just as well , I daresay . 
You're a pair of 'em . 
But you are a rum 'un for a cabby ain't you now ? said the policeman . 
I don't know as I ought to let you go . 
I ain't done nothing , said Diamond . 
It's not my fault I'm no bigger . 
I'm big enough for my age . 
That's where it is , said the man . 
How do you know that ? asked Diamond , with his usual smile , and turning his head like a little bird . 
There , that van's a moving now . 
The policeman did as Diamond told him , and was soon satisfied that the little fellow could drive . 
Well , he said , as he got down again , I don't know as I should be right to interfere . 
Good luck to you , my little man ! Thank you , sir , said Diamond , and drove away . 
In a few minutes a gentleman hailed him . 
Are you the driver of this cab ? he asked . 
Yes , sir said Diamond , showing his badge , of which , he was proud . 
You're the youngest cabman I ever saw . 
How am I to know you won't break all my bones ? I would rather break all my own , said Diamond . 
But if you're afraid , never mind me I shall soon get another fare . 
I'll risk it , said the gentleman and , opening the door himself , he jumped in . 
He was going a good distance , and soon found that Diamond got him over the ground well . 
He had given up all hope of finding it out for himself , and he could not plague his father about it when he was ill . 
He had thought of the answer himself , but fancied it could not be the right one , for to see how it all fitted required some knowledge of physiology . 
Oh ! that's easy enough , he returned . 
Its breath is its food . 
And it can't do it except in the daylight . 
Thank you , sir , thank you , returned Diamond . 
I'm sorry I couldn't find it out myself Mr. Raymond would have been better pleased with me . 
But you needn't tell him any one told you . 
Diamond gave him a stare which came from the very back of the north wind , where that kind of thing is unknown . 
That would be cheating , he said at last . 
Ain't you a cabby , then ? Cabbies don't cheat . 
Don't they ? I am of a different opinion . 
I'm sure my father don't . 
What's your fare , young innocent ? Well , I think the distance is a good deal over three miles that's two shillings . 
Only father says sixpence a mile is too little , though we can't ask for more . 
But I think you're wrong . 
It's over four miles not much , but it is . 
Then that's half a crown , said Diamond . 
Well , here's three shillings . 
Will that do ? Thank you kindly , sir . 
I'll tell my father how good you were to me first to tell me my riddle , then to put me right about the distance , and then to give me sixpence over . 
It'll help father to get well again , it will . 
I hope it may , my man . 
I shouldn't wonder if you're as good as you look , after all . 
As Diamond returned , he drew up at a stand he had never been on before it was time to give Diamond his bag of chopped beans and oats . 
The men got about him , and began to chaff him . 
That he could not bear , and the tears came in his eyes . 
Diamond endeavoured to persuade him , and was very civil , but he would have his fun out of him , as he said . 
In a few minutes a group of idle boys had assembled , and Diamond found himself in a very uncomfortable position . 
Another cab drew up at the stand , and the driver got off and approached the assemblage . 
What's up here ? he asked , and Diamond knew the voice . 
It was that of the drunken cabman . 
Do you see this young oyster ? He pretends to drive a cab , said his enemy . 
Yes , I do see him . 
And I sees you too . 
You'd better leave him alone . 
He's a angel come down on his own business . 
You be off , or I'll be nearer you than quite agreeable . 
The drunken cabman was a tall , stout man , who did not look one to take liberties with . 
Oh ! if he's a friend of yours , said the other , drawing back . 
Diamond got out the nose bag again . 
Old Diamond should have his feed out now . 
Yes , he is a friend o' mine . 
One o' the best I ever had . 
It's a pity he ain't a friend o' yourn . 
You'd be the better for it , but it ain't no fault of hisn . 
When Diamond went home at night , he carried with him one pound one shilling and sixpence , besides a few coppers extra , which had followed some of the fares . 
When he drew up at the stable door , Jack came out , and after a good many friendly questions and congratulations , said You go in to your mother , Diamond . 
I'll put up the old 'oss . 
I'll take care on him . 
He do deserve some small attention , he do . 
Thank you , Jack , said Diamond , and bounded into the house , and into the arms of his mother , who was waiting him at the top of the stair . 
The poor , anxious woman led him into his own room , sat down on his bed , took him on her lap as if he had been a baby , and cried . 
How's father ? asked Diamond , almost afraid to ask . 
Better , my child , she answered , but uneasy about you , my dear . 
That or something else , answered Diamond , so very quietly that his mother held his head back and stared in his face . 
Well ! of all the children ! she said , and said no more . 
And here's my worm , resumed Diamond . 
And how pleased he was ! It did him no end of good . 
And then he began to sing to him as usual . 
And what he sang was this , for he was too happy either to make a song of his own or to sing sense . 
It was one out of Mr. Raymond's book . 
But then , don't you see ? Before that could be , The moon had come down and listened . 
The little dog hearkened , So loud that he barkened , There's nothing like it , there isn't . 
The dish got excited , The spoon was delighted , And the dish waltzed away with the spoon . 
But Ho ! ho ! said the man in the moon No more in the South Shall I burn my mouth , For I've found a dish and a spoon . 
CHAPTER XXV DIAMOND'S DREAM THERE , baby ! said Diamond I'm so happy that I can only sing nonsense . 
We should have all starved , my precious Diamond , said his mother , whose pride in her boy was even greater than her joy in the shillings . 
Both of them together made her heart ache , for pleasure can do that as well as pain . 
Oh no ! we shouldn't , said Diamond . 
I could have taken Nanny's crossing till she came back and then the money , instead of going for Old Sal's gin , would have gone for father's beef tea . 
I wonder what Nanny will do when she gets well again . 
Somebody else will be sure to have taken the crossing by that time . 
I wonder if she will fight for it , and whether I shall have to help her . 
I won't bother my head about that . 
Time enough yet ! Hey diddle ! hey diddle ! hey diddle diddle ! I wonder whether Mr. Raymond would take me to see Nanny . 
Hey diddle ! hey diddle ! hey diddle diddle ! The baby and fiddle ! O , mother , I'm such a silly ! But I can't help it . 
Do you think they ever sing nonsense , mother ? I daresay they've got their own sort of it , answered his mother , else they wouldn't be like other people . 
But Diamond found her answer all right . 
Yes , to be sure , he replied . 
They wouldn't be like other people if they hadn't their nonsense sometimes . 
But it must be very pretty nonsense , and not like that silly hey diddle diddle ! the cat and the fiddle ! I wish I could get it out of my head . 
I wonder what the angels' nonsense is like . 
What rose in his happy little heart ran out of his mouth , and did his father and mother good . 
But before coming to any conclusion he fell fast asleep . 
And no wonder , for it must be acknowledged a difficult question . 
That night he had a very curious dream which I think my readers would like to have told them . 
They would , at least , if they are as fond of nice dreams as I am , and don't have enough of them of their own . 
He dreamed that he was running about in the twilight in the old garden . 
He thought he was waiting for North Wind , but she did not come . 
So he would run down to the back gate , and see if she were there . 
It was a good long garden out of his dream , but in his dream it had grown so long and spread out so wide that the gate he wanted was nowhere . 
He ran and ran , but instead of coming to the gate found himself in a beautiful country , not like any country he had ever been in before . 
There were no trees of any size nothing bigger in fact than hawthorns , which were full of may blossom . 
The place in which they grew was wild and dry , mostly covered with grass , but having patches of heath . 
It extended on every side as far as he could see . 
On every side , far and near , roses were glowing . 
He wandered on and on , wondering when it would come to an end . 
It was of no use going back , for there was no house to be seen anywhere . 
But he was not frightened , for you know Diamond was used to things that were rather out of the way . 
He threw himself down under a rose bush , and fell asleep . 
The rose bushes were pouring out their odours in clouds . 
But again came the voice calling him , and it seemed to come from over his head . 
While he gazed up , again he heard the cry . 
At the same moment he saw one of the biggest stars over his head give a kind of twinkle and jump , as if it went out and came in again . 
He threw himself on his back , and fixed his eyes upon it . 
Nor had he gazed long before it went out , leaving something like a scar in the blue . 
But as he went on gazing he saw a face where the star had been a merry face , with bright eyes . 
The eyes appeared not only to see Diamond , but to know that Diamond had caught sight of them , for the face withdrew the same moment . 
Again came the voice , calling Diamond , Diamond and in jumped the star to its place . 
Diamond called as loud as he could , right up into the sky Here's Diamond , down below you . 
We're so jolly ! Diamond ! Diamond ! This was followed by a peal of the merriest , kindliest laughter , and all the stars jumped into their places again . 
How am I to come up ? shouted Diamond . 
Go round the rose bush . 
It's got its foot in it , said the first voice . 
Diamond got up at once , and walked to the other side of the rose bush . 
There he found what seemed the very opposite of what he wanted a stair down into the earth . 
It was of turf and moss . 
It did not seem to promise well for getting into the sky , but Diamond had learned to look through the look of things . 
The voice must have meant that he was to go down this stair and down this stair Diamond went , without waiting to think more about it . 
It would have been odd here . 
It made a merry tune as it came , and its voice was like the laughter he had heard from the sky . 
And as the stream bubbled up , the stone shook and swayed with its force and Diamond thought he would try to lift it . 
But he avoided it , and when it fell , got upon it . 
One after another they extricated themselves , and each as he got free threw his arms round Diamond and kissed him . 
Diamond's heart was ready to melt within him from clear delight . 
They kept constantly coming back to Diamond , however , as the centre of their enjoyment , rejoicing over him as if they had found a lost playmate . 
There was a wind on the hillside which blew like the very embodiment of living gladness . 
It blew into Diamond's heart , and made him so happy that he was forced to sit down and cry . 
Now let's go and dig for stars , said one who seemed to be the captain of the troop . 
They all scurried away , but soon returned , one after another , each with a pickaxe on his shoulder and a spade in his hand . 
As soon as they were gathered , the captain led them in a straight line to another part of the hill . 
Here is where we begin our lesson for to night , he said . 
There was no more fun . 
Each went by himself , walking slowly with bent shoulders and his eyes fixed on the ground . 
Every now and then one would stop , kneel down , and look intently , feeling with his hands and parting the grass . 
Now one would sorrowfully shovel the earth into the hole again , trample it down with his little bare white feet , and walk on . 
Gold and blue were the commoner colours the jubilation was greater over red or green or purple . 
And every time a star was dug up all the little angels dropped their tools and crowded about it , shouting and dancing and fluttering their wing buds . 
When they had examined it well , they would kneel down one after the other and peep through the hole but they always stood back to give Diamond the first look . 
At length one dug up a small star of a most lovely colour a colour Diamond had never seen before . 
They crowded about him , hugging and kissing him then stood back with a solemn stillness , their wings lying close to their shoulders . 
The little fellow looked round on them once with a smile , and then shot himself headlong through the star hole . 
Diamond , as privileged , threw himself on the ground to peep after him , but he saw nothing . 
It's no use , said the captain . 
I never saw anything more of one that went that way . 
His wings can't be much use , said Diamond , concerned and fearful , yet comforted by the calm looks of the rest . 
That's true , said the captain . 
He's lost them by this time . 
They all do that go that way . 
You haven't got any , you see . 
I never did have any . 
Oh ! didn't you ? said the captain . 
Some people say , he added , after a pause , that they come again . 
I've never found the colour I care about myself . 
I suppose I shall some day . 
Then they looked again at the star , put it carefully into its hole , danced around it and over it but solemnly , and called it by the name of the finder . 
Will you know it again ? asked Diamond . 
We never forget a star that's been made a door of . 
Then they went on with their searching and digging . 
Diamond having neither pickaxe nor spade , had the more time to think . 
I don't see any little girls , he said at last . 
I've never seen any of them , of course but I suppose that's the sort you mean . 
I suppose with our shovelling and handling we spoil them a bit and I daresay the clouds that come up from below make them smoky and dull sometimes . 
How jolly ! thought Diamond . 
I should like to see them at their work too . 
When do you go to sleep ? he asked the captain . 
When we grow sleepy , answered the captain . 
They live on the west side of the hill . 
None of us have ever been to the top of it yet . 
Even as he spoke , he dropped his spade . 
He tumbled down beside it , and lay fast asleep . 
One after the other each of the troop dropped his pickaxe or shovel from his listless hands , and lay fast asleep by his work . 
But the same moment he felt himself growing sleepy . 
He struggled hard with the invading power . 
He put up his fingers to his eyelids and pulled them open . 
But it was of no use . 
He thought he saw a glimmer of pale rosy light far up the green hill , and ceased to know . 
When he awoke , all the angels were starting up wide awake too . 
He expected to see them lift their tools , but no , the time for play had come . 
They looked happier than ever , and each began to sing where he stood . 
He had not heard them sing before . 
Now , he thought , I shall know what kind of nonsense the angels sing when they are merry . 
They don't drive cabs , I see , but they dig for stars , and they work hard enough to be merry after it . 
And he did hear some of the angels' nonsense for if it was all sense to them , it had only just as much sense to Diamond as made good nonsense of it . 
He tried hard to set it down in his mind , listening as closely as he could , now to one , now to another , and now to all together . 
But while they were yet singing he began , to his dismay , to find that he was coming awake faster and faster . 
And as he came awake , he found that , for all the goodness of his memory , verse after verse of the angels' nonsense vanished from it . 
He felt as if the effort to keep from forgetting that one verse of the vanishing song nearly killed him . 
And yet by the time he was wide awake he could not be sure of that even . 
It was something like this White hands of whiteness Wash the stars' faces , Till glitter , glitter , glit , goes their brightness Down to poor places . 
This , however , was so near sense that he thought it could not be really what they did sing . 
CHAPTER XXVI DIAMOND TAKES A FARE THE WRONG WAY RIGHT THE next morning Diamond was up almost as early as before . 
He had nothing to fear from his mother now , and made no secret of what he was about . 
By the time he reached the stable , several of the men were there . 
They asked him a good many questions as to his luck the day before , and he told them all they wanted to know . 
But when he proceeded to harness the old horse , they pushed him aside with rough kindness , called him a baby , and began to do it all for him . 
But he did not really mind it . 
There are not many people who can think about beautiful things and do common work at the same time . 
But then there are not many people who have been to the back of the north wind . 
There was not much business doing . 
And Diamond felt rather cold , notwithstanding his mother had herself put on his comforter and helped him with his greatcoat . 
But he was too well aware of his dignity to get inside his cab as some do . 
A cabman ought to be above minding the weather at least so Diamond thought . 
At length he was called to a neighbouring house , where a young woman with a heavy box had to be taken to Wapping for a coast steamer . 
He did not find it at all pleasant , so far east and so near the river for the roughs were in great force . 
However , there being no block , not even in Nightingale Lane , he reached the entrance of the wharf , and set down his passenger without annoyance . 
But as he turned to go back , some idlers , not content with chaffing him , showed a mind to the fare the young woman had given him . 
Now , my little man , he said , get on while you can . 
This is not a place for you . 
But Diamond was not in the habit of thinking only of himself . 
He saw that his new friend looked weary , if not ill , and very poor . 
Won't you jump in , sir ? he said . 
I will take you wherever you like . 
Thank you , my man but I have no money so I can't . 
Oh ! I don't want any money . 
I shall be much happier if you will get in . 
You have saved me all I had . 
I owe you a lift , sir . 
Which way are you going ? To Charing Cross but I don't mind where I go . 
Well , I am very tired . 
If you will take me to Charing Cross , I shall be greatly obliged to you . 
I have walked from Gravesend , and had hardly a penny left to get through the tunnel . 
So saying , he opened the door and got in , and Diamond drove away . 
But as he drove , he could not help fancying he had seen the gentleman for Diamond knew he was a gentleman before . 
Do all he could , however , he could not recall where or when . 
If you didn't mind taking me to Chiswick , I should be able to pay you when we got there . 
It's a long way , but you shall have the whole fare from the Docks and something over . 
Very well , sir said Diamond . 
I shall be most happy . 
It flashed upon Diamond who he was . 
But he got upon his box to arrange his thoughts before making any reply . 
The gentleman was Mr. Evans , to whom Miss Coleman was to have been married , and Diamond had seen him several times with her in the garden . 
I have said that he had not behaved very well to Miss Coleman . 
He had put off their marriage more than once in a cowardly fashion , merely because he was ashamed to marry upon a small income , and live in a humble way . 
When a man thinks of what people will say in such a case , he may love , but his love is but a poor affair . 
Mr. Coleman took him into the firm as a junior partner , and it was in a measure through his influence that he entered upon those speculations which ruined him . 
So his love had not been a blessing . 
The ship which North Wind had sunk was their last venture , and Mr. Evans had gone out with it in the hope of turning its cargo to the best advantage . 
He was one of the single boat load which managed to reach a desert island , and he had gone through a great many hardships and sufferings since then . 
So he had come back a more humble man , and longing to ask Miss Coleman to forgive him . 
But he had no idea what ruin had fallen upon them , for he had never made himself thoroughly acquainted with the firm's affairs . 
Few speculative people do know their own affairs . 
Hence he never doubted he should find matters much as he left them , and expected to see them all at The Wilderness as before . 
But if he had not fallen in with Diamond , he would not have thought of going there first . 
What was Diamond to do ? He had heard his father and mother drop some remarks concerning Mr. Evans which made him doubtful of him . 
He understood that he had not been so considerate as he might have been . 
So he went rather slowly till he should make up his mind . 
It was , of course , of no use to drive Mr. Evans to Chiswick . 
He was pretty sure also that the best thing in any case was to bring them together , and let them set matters right for themselves . 
The moment he came to this conclusion , he changed his course from westward to northward , and went straight for Mr. Coleman's poor little house in Hoxton . 
By this time the wind had increased almost to a hurricane , and as they had often to head it , it was no joke for either of the Diamonds . 
The distance , however , was not great . 
In five minutes after , Diamond drew up at the door . 
Would you mind stepping in here for a few minutes ? They're friends of mine . 
I'll take you where you like after I've got it mended . 
I shan't be many minutes , but you can't stand in this wind . 
Half stupid with fatigue and want of food , Mr. Evans yielded to the boy's suggestion , and walked in at the door which the maid held with difficulty against the wind . 
She took Mr. Evans for a visitor , as indeed he was , and showed him into the room on the ground floor . 
Diamond , who had followed into the hall , whispered to her as she closed the door Tell Miss Coleman . 
It's Miss Coleman he wants to see . 
I don't know said the maid . 
He don't look much like a gentleman . 
He is , though and I know him , and so does Miss Coleman . 
The maid could not but remember Diamond , having seen him when he and his father brought the ladies home . 
So she believed him , and went to do what he told her . 
What passed in the little parlour when Miss Coleman came down does not belong to my story , which is all about Diamond . 
If he had known that Miss Coleman thought Mr. Evans was dead , perhaps he would have managed differently . 
There was a cry and a running to and fro in the house , and then all was quiet again . 
Almost as soon as Mr. Evans went in , the wind began to cease , and was now still . 
In a little while Mr. Evans came out , and asked him to come in . 
He left them nearly as happy as they were themselves . 
The rest of the day he did better , and , although he had not so much to take home as the day before , yet on the whole the result was satisfactory . 
For a fortnight Diamond went on driving his cab , and keeping his family . 
He had begun to be known about some parts of London , and people would prefer taking his cab because they liked what they heard of him . 
Between the two , however , he did make a success of it . 
After that fortnight , his father was able to go out again . 
Then Diamond went to make inquiries about Nanny , and this led to something else . 
CHAPTER XXVII THE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL THE first day his father resumed his work , Diamond went with him as usual . 
In the afternoon , however , his father , having taken a fare to the neighbourhood , went home , and Diamond drove the cab the rest of the day . 
It was hard for old Diamond to do all the work , but they could not afford to have another horse . 
They contrived to save him as much as possible , and fed him well , and he did bravely . 
The next morning his father was so much stronger that Diamond thought he might go and ask Mr. Raymond to take him to see Nanny . 
He found him at home . 
His servant had grown friendly by this time , and showed him in without any cross questioning . 
Mr. Raymond received him with his usual kindness , consented at once , and walked with him to the Hospital , which was close at hand . 
There are regions in London where a hospital in every other street might be full of such children , whose fathers and mothers are dead , or unable to take care of them . 
In others there were more of the signs of winter left . 
Diamond looked all round , but could see no Nanny . 
He turned to Mr. Raymond with a question in his eyes . 
Well ? said Mr. Raymond . 
Nanny's not here , said Diamond . 
Oh , yes , she is . 
He pointed to a bed right in front of where Diamond was standing . 
That's not Nanny , he said . 
I have seen her many times since you have . 
Illness makes a great difference . 
The old Nanny , though a good girl , and a friendly girl , had been rough , blunt in her speech , and dirty in her person . 
And Diamond could not help thinking of words which he had heard in the church the day before Surely it is good to be afflicted or something like that . 
North Wind , somehow or other , must have had to do with her ! She had grown from a rough girl into a gentle maiden . 
He went up to her . 
He had heard her laugh , but had never seen her smile before . 
Nanny , do you know me ? said Diamond . 
She only smiled again , as if the question was amusing . 
Nor was it much wonder , for he was the only boy except Joe who had ever shown her kindness . 
Meantime Mr. Raymond was going from bed to bed , talking to the little people . 
Every one knew him , and every one was eager to have a look , and a smile , and a kind word from him . 
Diamond sat down on a stool at the head of Nanny's bed . 
She laid her hand in his . 
No one else of her old acquaintance had been near her . 
Very well , said Mr. Raymond , I will . 
What sort of a story shall it be ? A true story , said one little girl . 
A fairy tale , said a little boy . 
Well , said Mr. Raymond , I suppose , as there is a difference , I may choose . 
I can't think of any true story just at this moment , so I will tell you a sort of a fairy one . 
Oh , jolly ! exclaimed the little boy who had called out for a fairy tale . 
Then nobody ever heard it before ? asked one older child . 
Mr. Raymond stood in the middle of the room , that he might turn from side to side , and give each a share of seeing him . 
Diamond kept his place by Nanny's side , with her hand in his . 
But they all listened with apparent satisfaction , and certainly with great attention . 
Mr. Raymond wrote it down afterwards , and here it is somewhat altered no doubt , for a good story teller tries to make his stories better every time he tells them . 
I cannot myself help thinking that he was somewhat indebted for this one to the old story of The Sleeping Beauty . 
The king and his courtiers often hunted , however , and this kept the wild beasts far away from the palace . 
But there is one disadvantage of living near a wood you do not know quite who your neighbours may be . 
But there was another fairy who had lately come to the place , and nobody even knew she was a fairy except the other fairies . 
The people about thought she was a witch , and those who knew her by sight were careful to avoid offending her . 
She lived in a mud house , in a swampy part of the forest . 
In all history we find that fairies give their remarkable gifts to prince or princess , or any child of sufficient importance in their eyes , always at the christening . 
But I never knew of any interference on the part of the wicked fairy that did not turn out a good thing in the end . 
It would be happier for them , and more agreeable to their friends . 
Of course all the known fairies were invited to the christening . 
But the king and queen never thought of inviting an old witch . 
For the power of the fairies they have by nature whereas a witch gets her power by wickedness . 
The other fairies , however , knowing the danger thus run , provided as well as they could against accidents from her quarter . 
But they could neither render her powerless , nor could they arrange their gifts in reference to hers beforehand , for they could not tell what those might be . 
Of course the old hag was there without being asked . 
Not to be asked was just what she wanted , that she might have a sort of reason for doing what she wished to do . 
For somehow even the wickedest of creatures likes a pretext for doing the wrong thing . 
And little daylight it shall be , cried the fairy , in the tone of a dry axle , and little good shall any of her gifts do her . 
For I bestow upon her the gift of sleeping all day long , whether she will or not . 
If she sleep all day , she said , mournfully , she shall , at least , wake all night . 
You spoke before I had done , said the wicked fairy . 
It gives me another chance . 
I beg your pardon , said the other fairies , all together . 
I hadn't done laughing , said the crone . 
And what that may mean I hope her royal parents will live to see . 
Until , said the seventh fairy , a prince comes who shall kiss her without knowing it . 
The wicked fairy made a horrid noise like an angry cat , and hobbled away . 
The meaning will come with the thing itself , said she . 
I will not attempt to describe what they had to go through for some time . 
But at last the household settled into a regular system a very irregular one in some respects . 
But her merriment was of short duration . 
When the moon was at the full , she was in glorious spirits , and as beautiful as it was possible for a child of her age to be . 
Then in her sleep she would smile the faintest , most pitiful smile . 
For a long time very few people ever saw her awake . 
But she soon began to take every chance of getting away from her nurses and enjoying her moonlight alone . 
And thus things went on until she was nearly seventeen years of age . 
Her father and mother had by that time got so used to the odd state of things that they had ceased to wonder at them . 
All their arrangements had reference to the state of the Princess Daylight , and it is amazing how things contrive to accommodate themselves . 
But how any prince was ever to find and deliver her , appeared inconceivable . 
But so much more painful and sad was the change as her bad time came on . 
The more beautiful she was in the full moon , the more withered and worn did she become as the moon waned . 
At the time at which my story has now arrived , she looked , when the moon was small or gone , like an old woman exhausted with suffering . 
This was the more painful that her appearance was unnatural for her hair and eyes did not change . 
Her wan face was both drawn and wrinkled , and had an eager hungry look . 
Her skinny hands moved as if wishing , but unable , to lay hold of something . 
Her shoulders were bent forward , her chest went in , and she stooped as if she were eighty years old . 
At last she had to be put to bed , and there await the flow of the tide of life . 
But she grew to dislike being seen , still more being touched by any hands , during this season . 
A little way from the palace there was a great open glade , covered with the greenest and softest grass . 
Here she had a little rustic house built for her , and here she mostly resided . 
At length one night they thought they had lost her altogether . 
It was morning before they found her . 
Feeble as she was , she had wandered into a thicket a long way from the glade , and there she lay fast asleep , of course . 
There were serious objections to such a relation . 
He did not abandon his disguise , however . 
One tolerable reason was that he had no other clothes to put on , and another that he had very little money , and did not know where to get any more . 
He had read of princes setting out upon adventure and here he was out in similar case , only without having had a choice in the matter . 
He would go on , and see what would come of it . 
This was one of the good fairies . 
The old woman pressed him to stay all night . 
When he awoke he was amazed to find how well and strong he felt . 
She would not take any of the money he offered , but begged him , if he found occasion of continuing in the neighbourhood , to return and occupy the same quarters . 
Thank you much , good mother , answered the prince but there is little chance of that . 
The sooner I get out of this wood the better . 
I don't know that , said the fairy . 
What do you mean ? asked the prince . 
Why , how should I know ? returned she . 
I can't tell , said the prince . 
Very well , said the fairy . 
How strangely you talk ! said the prince . 
Do I ? said the fairy . 
Yes , you do , said the prince . 
Very well , said the fairy . 
The prince was not used to be spoken to in this fashion , so he felt a little angry , and turned and walked away . 
But this did not offend the fairy . 
She stood at the door of her little house looking after him till the trees hid him quite . 
Then she said At last ! and went in . 
The prince wandered and wandered , and got nowhere . 
The sun sank and sank and went out of sight , and he seemed no nearer the end of the wood than ever . 
The moon shone very bright , and he thought he had never seen a more lovely spot . 
Still it looked dreary because of its loneliness , for he could not see the house at the other side . 
He sat down , weary again , and gazed into the glade . 
He had not seen so much room for several days . 
All at once he spied something in the middle of the grass . 
What could it be ? It moved it came nearer . 
Was it a human creature , gliding across a girl dressed in white , gleaming in the moonshine ? She came nearer and nearer . 
He crept behind a tree and watched , wondering . 
It must be some strange being of the wood a nymph whom the moonlight and the warm dusky air had enticed from her tree . 
All at once she began singing like a nightingale , and dancing to her own music , with her eyes ever turned towards the moon . 
But when he feared it would vanish quite , the spot grew , and became a figure once more . 
She approached him again , singing and dancing , and waving her arms over her head , until she had completed the circle . 
Just opposite his tree she stood , ceased her song , dropped her arms , and broke out into a long clear laugh , musical as a brook . 
Then , as if tired , she threw herself on the grass , and lay gazing at the moon . 
The prince was almost afraid to breathe lest he should startle her , and she should vanish from his sight . 
As to venturing near her , that never came into his head . 
She had lain for a long hour or longer , when the prince began again to doubt concerning her . 
Perhaps she was but a vision of his own fancy . 
He would build him a hut in the forest , and there he would live for the pure chance of seeing her again . 
Upon nights like this at least she would come out and bask in the moonlight , and make his soul blessed . 
She looked more beautiful than ever . 
Again she began dancing to her own music , and danced away into the distance . 
When he awoke it was broad daylight , and the princess was nowhere . 
He could not leave the place . 
What if she should come the next night ! He would gladly endure a day's hunger to see her yet again he would buckle his belt quite tight . 
He walked round the glade to see if he could discover any prints of her feet . 
But the grass was so short , and her steps had been so light , that she had not left a single trace behind her . 
He walked half way round the wood without seeing anything to account for her presence . 
Then he spied a lovely little house , with thatched roof and low eaves , surrounded by an exquisite garden , with doves and peacocks walking in it . 
Of course this must be where the gracious lady who loved the moonlight lived . 
There he knocked , and asked for a piece of bread . 
The good natured cook brought him in , and gave him an excellent breakfast , which the prince found nothing the worse for being served in the kitchen . 
While he ate , he talked with his entertainer , and learned that this was the favourite retreat of the Princess Daylight . 
She said she knew it well enough , adding with a smile It's there you're going , is it ? Yes , if it's not far off . 
It's not more than three miles . 
But mind what you are about , you know . 
Why do you say that ? If you're after any mischief , she'll make you repent it . 
The best thing that could happen under the circumstances , remarked the prince . 
What do you mean by that ? asked the cook . 
Why , it stands to reason , answered the prince that if you wish to do anything wrong , the best thing for you is to be made to repent of it . 
I see , said the cook . 
Well , I think you may venture . 
She's a good old soul . 
Which way does it lie from here ? asked the prince . 
She gave him full instructions and he left her with many thanks . 
Nor was he disappointed , for , directly the moon rose , he spied a glimmering shape far across the glade . 
As it drew nearer , he saw it was she indeed not dressed in white as before in a pale blue like the sky , she looked lovelier still . 
He thought it was that the blue suited her yet better than the white he did not know that she was really more beautiful because the moon was nearer the full . 
In fact the next night was full moon , and the princess would then be at the zenith of her loveliness . 
He was entranced with her loveliness , for it was indeed a marvellous thing . 
All night long he watched her , but dared not go near her . 
He would have been ashamed of watching her too , had he not become almost incapable of thinking of anything but how beautiful she was . 
He watched the whole night long , and saw that as the moon went down she retreated in smaller and smaller circles , until at last he could see her no more . 
Weary as he was , he set out for the old woman's cottage , where he arrived just in time for her breakfast , which she shared with him . 
He then went to bed , and slept for many hours . 
When he awoke the sun was down , and he departed in great anxiety lest he should lose a glimpse of the lovely vision . 
I shall not attempt to describe his misery when the moon rose , and he saw nothing but trees , trees , trees . 
She was high in the heavens before he reached the glade . 
She was of course still more beautiful than before . 
Like an embodied sunbeam she passed him , and danced away into the distance . 
Before she returned in her circle , the clouds had begun to gather about the moon . 
The wind rose , the trees moaned , and their lighter branches leaned all one way before it . 
The prince feared that the princess would go in , and he should see her no more that night . 
The prince could hardly believe she was not a creature of the elements , after all . 
By the time she had completed another circle , the clouds had gathered deep , and there were growlings of distant thunder . 
He darted to her , thinking she had been struck but when she heard him coming , she was on her feet in a moment . 
What do you want ? she asked . 
I thought the lightning said the prince , hesitating . 
There's nothing the matter , said the princess , waving him off rather haughtily . 
The poor prince turned and walked towards the wood . 
Come back , said Daylight I like you . 
You do what you are told . 
Are you good ? Not so good as I should like to be , said the prince . 
Then go and grow better , said the princess . 
Again the disappointed prince turned and went . 
Come back , said the princess . 
He obeyed , and stood before her waiting . 
Can you tell me what the sun is like ? she asked . 
But where's the good of asking what you know ? But I don't know , she rejoined . 
That's the very thing I'm not everybody . 
I've never seen the sun . 
Then you can't know what it's like till you do see it . 
I think you must be a prince , said the princess . 
Do I look like one ? said the prince . 
I can't quite say that . 
Then why do you think so ? Because you both do what you are told and speak the truth . 
Is the sun so very bright ? As bright as the lightning . 
But it doesn't go out like that , does it ? Oh , no . 
But I would look at it , said the princess . 
But you couldn't , said the prince . 
But I could , said the princess . 
Why don't you , then ? Because I can't . 
Why can't you ? Because I can't wake . 
And I never shall wake until Here she hid her face in her hands , turned away , and walked in the slowest , stateliest manner towards the house . 
The prince ventured to follow her at a little distance , but she turned and made a repellent gesture , which , like a true gentleman prince , he obeyed at once . 
It was long past midnight when he reached it , but , to his surprise , the old woman was paring potatoes at the door . 
Fairies are fond of doing odd things . 
Indeed , however they may dissemble , the night is always their day . 
And so it is with all who have fairy blood in them . 
Getting your supper ready , my son , she answered . 
Oh , I don't want any supper , said the prince . 
Ah ! you've seen Daylight , said she . 
I've seen a princess who never saw it , said the prince . 
Do you like her ? asked the fairy . 
Oh ! don't I ? said the prince . 
More than you would believe , mother . 
A fairy can believe anything that ever was or ever could be , said the old woman . 
Then are you a fairy ? asked the prince . 
Then what do you do for things not to believe ? asked the prince . 
There's plenty of them everything that never was nor ever could be . 
Plenty , I grant you , said the prince . 
She was too old a fairy , however , to be caught so easily . 
Of all people , fairies must not tell secrets . 
Besides , she's a princess . 
Well , I'll tell you a secret . 
How do you know it ? By the curl of the third eyelash on your left eyelid . 
Which corner do you count from ? That's a secret . 
Another secret ? Well , at least , if I am a prince , there can be no harm in telling me about a princess . 
It's just the princes I can't tell . 
There ain't any more of them are there ? said the prince . 
What ! you don't think you're the only prince in the world , do you ? Oh , dear , no ! not at all . 
But I know there's one too many just at present , except the princess Yes , yes , that's it , said the fairy . 
What's it ? asked the prince . 
But he could get nothing more out of the fairy , and had to go to bed unanswered , which was something of a trial . 
But it is all of no consequence , for what they do never succeeds nay , in the end it brings about the very thing they are trying to prevent . 
She will try the bad thing just as they all did before her and succeeds no better of course . 
The prince had so far stolen a march upon the swamp fairy that she did not know he was in the neighbourhood until after he had seen the princess those three times . 
But there was even less danger than the wicked fairy thought for , however much the princess might desire to be set free , she was dreadfully afraid of the wrong prince . 
Now , however , the fairy was going to do all she could . 
She so contrived it by her deceitful spells , that the next night the prince could not by any endeavour find his way to the glade . 
It would take me too long to tell her tricks . 
They would be amusing to us , who know that they could not do any harm , but they were something other than amusing to the poor prince . 
He wandered about the forest till daylight , and then fell fast asleep . 
The same thing occurred for seven following days , during which neither could he find the good fairy's cottage . 
So the first day of the fourth quarter he did find the cottage , and the next day he found the glade . 
For nearly another week he haunted it . 
But the princess never came . 
Nor would he have known her if he had seen her . 
This he managed with a tinder box , which the good fairy had given him . 
It was just beginning to blaze up , when he heard a moan , which seemed to come from the other side of the tree . 
He sprung to his feet , but his heart throbbed so that he had to lean for a moment against the tree before he could move . 
When he got round , there lay a human form in a little dark heap on the earth . 
There was light enough from his fire to show that it was not the princess . 
He lifted it in his arms , hardly heavier than a child , and carried it to the flame . 
The countenance was that of an old woman , but it had a fearfully strange look . 
A black hood concealed her hair , and her eyes were closed . 
In a little while she opened her eyes and looked at him so pitifully ! The tears rose and flowed from her grey wrinkled cheeks , but she said never a word . 
She closed her eyes again , but the tears kept on flowing , and her whole appearance was so utterly pitiful that the prince was near crying too . 
He begged her to tell him what was the matter , promising to do all he could to help her but still she did not speak . 
When he lifted her , the tears flowed yet faster , and she gave such a sad moan that it went to his very heart . 
Mother , mother ! he said . 
Poor mother ! and kissed her on the withered lips . 
But she stood upright on her feet . 
Her hood had dropped , and her hair fell about her . 
The first gleam of the morning was caught on her face that face was bright as the never aging Dawn , and her eyes were lovely as the sky of darkest blue . 
The prince recoiled in overmastering wonder . 
It was Daylight herself whom he had brought from the forest ! He fell at her feet , nor dared to look up until she laid her hand upon his head . 
You kissed me when I was an old woman there ! I kiss you when I am a young princess , murmured Daylight . 
Is that the sun coming ? CHAPTER XXIX RUBY THE children were delighted with the story , and made many amusing remarks upon it . 
Mr. Raymond promised to search his brain for another , and when he had found one to bring it to them . 
Diamond having taken leave of Nanny , and promised to go and see her again soon , went away with him . 
Now Mr. Raymond had been turning over in his mind what he could do both for Diamond and for Nanny . 
He had therefore made some acquaintance with Diamond's father , and had been greatly pleased with him . 
But he had come to the resolution , before he did anything so good as he would like to do for them , to put them all to a certain test . 
So as they walked away together , he began to talk with Diamond as follows Nanny must leave the hospital soon , Diamond . 
I'm glad of that , sir . 
Why ? Don't you think it's a nice place ? Yes , very . 
But it's better to be well and doing something , you know , even if it's not quite so comfortable . 
But they can't keep Nanny so long as they would like . 
They can't keep her till she's quite strong . 
There are always so many sick children they want to take in and make better . 
Her crossing was taken long ago , and I couldn't bear to see Nanny fighting for it , especially with such a poor fellow as has taken it . 
He's quite lame , sir . 
She doesn't look much like fighting , now , does she , Diamond ? No , sir . 
She looks too like an angel . 
Angels don't fight do they , sir ? Not to get things for themselves , at least , said Mr. Raymond . 
Besides , added Diamond , I don't quite see that she would have any better right to the crossing than the boy who has got it . 
Nobody gave it to her she only took it . 
And now he has taken it . 
If she were to sweep a crossing soon at least after the illness she has had , she would be laid up again the very first wet day , said Mr. Raymond . 
And there's hardly any money to be got except on the wet days , remarked Diamond reflectively . 
Is there nothing else she could do , sir ? Not without being taught , I'm afraid . 
Well , couldn't somebody teach her something ? Couldn't you teach her , Diamond ? I don't know anything myself , sir . 
I could teach her to dress the , baby but nobody would give her anything for doing things like that they are so easy . 
There wouldn't be much good in teaching her to drive a cab , for where would she get the cab to drive ? There ain't fathers and old Diamonds everywhere . 
At least poor Nanny can't find any of them , I doubt . 
Perhaps if she were taught to be nice and clean , and only speak gentle words Mother could teach her that , interrupted Diamond . 
And to dress babies , and feed them , and take care of them , Mr. Raymond proceeded , she might get a place as a nurse somewhere , you know . 
People do give money for that . 
Then I'll ask mother , said Diamond . 
But you'll have to give her her food then and your father , not being strong , has enough to do already without that . 
But here's me , said Diamond I help him out with it . 
When he's tired of driving , up I get . 
It don't make any difference to old Diamond . 
I don't mean he likes me as well as my father of course he can't , you know nobody could but he does his duty all the same . 
Don't you think he will go to heaven , sir ? That I don't know anything about , said Mr. Raymond . 
I confess I should be glad to think so , he added , smiling thoughtfully . 
I'm sure he'll get to the back of the north wind , anyhow , said Diamond to himself but he had learned to be very careful of saying such things aloud . 
Isn't it rather too much for him to go in the cab all day and every day ? resumed Mr. Raymond . 
So father says , when he feels his ribs of a morning . 
Some horses , sir ! they won't lie down all night long , but go to sleep on their four pins , like a haystack , father says . 
I think it's very stupid of them , and so does old Diamond . 
But then I suppose they don't know better , and so they can't help it . 
We mustn't be too hard upon them , father says . 
Your father must be a good man , Diamond . 
Diamond looked up in Mr. Raymond's face , wondering what he could mean . 
I said your father must be a good man , Diamond . 
Of course , said Diamond . 
How could he drive a cab if he wasn't ? There are some men who drive cabs who are not very good , objected Mr. Raymond . 
Diamond remembered the drunken cabman , and saw that his friend was right . 
Ah , but , he returned , he must be , you know , with such a horse as old Diamond . 
That does make a difference , said Mr. Raymond . 
But it is quite enough that he is a good man without our trying to account for it . 
Now , if you like , I will give you a proof that I think him a good man . 
Now , it has come into my head that perhaps your father would take charge of him , and work him under certain conditions . 
My father will do what's right , said Diamond . 
Well , so I think . 
Will you ask him when he comes home to call and have a little chat with me to day , some time ? He must have his dinner first , said Diamond . 
No , he's got his dinner with him to day . 
It must be after he's had his tea . 
Of course , of course . 
I shall be at home all day . 
You may be sure he will come . 
My father thinks you a very kind gentleman , and I know he is right , for I know your very own self , sir . 
Mr. Raymond smiled , and as they had now reached his door , they parted , and Diamond went home . 
As soon as his father entered the house , Diamond gave him Mr. Raymond's message , and recounted the conversation that had preceded it . 
It would be a grand thing to get a little more money . 
Diamond accompanied his father to Mr. Raymond's door , and there left him . 
Diamond's father could not help thinking it a pretty close bargain . 
He should have both the girl and the horse to feed , and only six hours' work out of the horse . 
It will save your own horse , said Mr. Raymond . 
I am in no hurry before then . 
So Joseph went home and recounted the proposal to his wife , adding that he did not think there was much advantage to be got out of it . 
Not much that way , husband , said Diamond's mother but there would be an advantage , and what matter who gets it ! I don't see it , answered her husband . 
Mr. Raymond is a gentleman of property , and I don't discover any much good in helping him to save a little more . 
He won't easily get one to make such a bargain , and I don't mean he shall get me . 
It would be a loss rather than a gain I do think at least if I took less work out of our own horse . 
One hour would make a difference to old Diamond . 
But that's not the main point . 
You must think what an advantage it would be to the poor girl that hasn't a home to go to ! She is one of Diamond's friends , thought his father . 
I won't hear of that , said her husband . 
Have the girl by all means . 
I'm ashamed I did not think of both sides of the thing at once . 
I wonder if the horse is a great eater . 
That would give Diamond something to do every day . 
He could drive old Diamond after dinner , and I could take the other horse out for six hours after tea , or in the morning , as I found best . 
It might pay for the keep of both of them , that is , if I had good luck . 
I should like to oblige Mr. Raymond , though he be rather hard , for he has been very kind to our Diamond , wife . 
Hasn't he now ? He has indeed , Joseph , said his wife , and there the conversation ended . 
Oddly enough , the name of the new horse was Ruby , for he was a very red chestnut . 
Diamond's name came from a white lozenge on his forehead . 
Young Diamond said they were rich now , with such a big diamond and such a big ruby . 
CHAPTER XXX NANNY'S DREAM NANNY was not fit to be moved for some time yet , and Diamond went to see her as often as he could . 
One evening , as he sat by her bedside , she said to him I've had such a beautiful dream , Diamond ! I should like to tell it you . 
Oh ! do , said Diamond I am so fond of dreams ! She must have been to the back of the north wind , he said to himself . 
It was a very foolish dream , you know . 
She had never been to school , and had heard very little else than vulgar speech until she came to the hospital . 
I will tell you all I know about it , said Nanny . 
The day before yesterday , a lady came to see us a very beautiful lady , and very beautifully dressed . 
I heard the matron say to her that it was very kind of her to come in blue and gold and she answered that she knew we didn't like dull colours . 
She had such a lovely shawl on , just like redness dipped in milk , and all worked over with flowers of the same colour . 
It didn't shine much , it was silk , but it kept in the shine . 
When she came to my bedside , she sat down , just where you are sitting , Diamond , and laid her hand on the counterpane . 
I was sitting up , with my table before me ready for my tea . 
Her hand looked so pretty in its blue glove , that I was tempted to stroke it . 
I thought she wouldn't be angry , for everybody that comes to the hospital is kind . 
It's only in the streets they ain't kind . 
But she drew her hand away , and I almost cried , for I thought I had been rude . 
I wasn't sure , but I ventured to put out my ugly hand . 
And she drew it off , and put it upon one of my fingers . 
It was a red stone , and she told me they called it a ruby . 
Oh , that is funny ! said Diamond . 
Our new horse is called Ruby . 
We've got another horse a red one such a beauty ! But Nanny went on with her story . 
I looked at the ruby all the time the lady was talking to me , it was so beautiful ! And as she talked I kept seeing deeper and deeper into the stone . 
Only you must take care of it . 
I can't give it you , for some one gave it to me but you may keep it till to morrow . 
By degrees I began to dream . 
I was dressed in rags as I used to be , and I had great holes in my shoes , at which the nasty mud came through to my feet . 
I didn't use to mind it before , but now I thought it horrid . 
And there was the great red sunset , with streaks of green and gold between , standing looking at me . 
Then a cold wind began to blow , and flutter all my rags about That was North Wind herself , said Diamond . 
Eh ? said Nanny , and went on with her story . 
I turned my back to it , and wandered away . 
I did not know where I was going , only it was warmer to go that way . 
I don't think it was a north wind , for I found myself in the west end at last . 
But it doesn't matter in a dream which wind it was . 
I don't know that , said Diamond . 
I believe North Wind can get into our dreams yes , and blow in them . 
Sometimes she has blown me out of a dream altogether . 
I don't know what you mean , Diamond , said Nanny . 
Never mind , answered Diamond . 
Two people can't always understand each other . 
They'd both be at the back of the north wind directly , and what would become of the other places without them ? You do talk so oddly ! said Nanny . 
I sometimes think they must have been right about you . 
What did they say about me ? asked Diamond . 
They called you God's baby . 
How kind of them ! But I knew that . 
Did you know what it meant , though ? It meant that you were not right in the head . 
I feel all right , said Diamond , putting both hands to his head , as if it had been a globe he could take off and set on again . 
Well , as long as you are pleased I am pleased , said Nanny . 
Do go on with your story . 
I think I like dreams even better than fairy tales . 
But they must be nice ones , like yours , you know . 
Well , I went on , keeping my back to the wind , until I came to a fine street on the top of a hill . 
That's why North Wind blew you there , said Diamond . 
It came of Mr. Raymond's story about Princess Daylight , returned Nanny . 
Well , I lay down upon the grass in the moonlight without thinking how I was to get out again . 
Somehow the moon suited me exactly . 
There was not a breath of the north wind you talk about it was quite gone . 
You didn't want her any more , just then . 
She never goes where she's not wanted , said Diamond . 
But she blew you into the moonlight , anyhow . 
Well , we won't dispute about it , said Nanny you've got a tile loose , you know . 
Suppose I have , returned Diamond , don't you see it may let in the moonlight , or the sunlight for that matter ? Perhaps yes , perhaps no , said Nanny . 
And you've got your dreams , too , Nanny . 
Yes , but I know they're dreams . 
So do I. But I know besides they are something more as well . 
Oh ! do you ? rejoined Nanny . 
All right , said Diamond . 
Perhaps you will some day . 
Perhaps I won't , said Nanny . 
Diamond held his peace , and Nanny resumed her story . 
I lay a long time , and the moonlight got in at every tear in my clothes , and made me feel so happy There , I tell you ! said Diamond . 
What do you tell me ? returned Nanny . 
North Wind It was the moonlight , I tell you , persisted Nanny , and again Diamond held his peace . 
All at once I felt that the moon was not shining so strong . 
I looked up , and there was a cloud , all crapey and fluffy , trying to drown the beautiful creature . 
But the moon was so round , just like a whole plate , that the cloud couldn't stick to her . 
She shook it off , and said there and shone out clearer and brighter than ever . 
I knew her ways , for I've always been used to watch her . 
She's the only thing worth looking at in our street at night . 
Don't call it your street , said Diamond . 
You're not going back to it . 
You're coming to us , you know . 
That's too good to be true , said Nanny . 
There are very few things good enough to be true , said Diamond but I hope this is . 
Too good to be true it can't be . 
Isn't true good ? and isn't good good ? And how , then , can anything be too good to be true ? That's like old Sal to say that . 
Don't abuse Grannie , Diamond . 
She's a horrid old thing , she and her gin bottle but she'll repent some day , and then you'll be glad not to have said anything against her . 
Because you'll be sorry for her . 
I am sorry for her now . 
And there'll be an end of it . 
You come to us , said Diamond . 
Where was I ? said Nanny . 
Telling me how the moon served the clouds . 
But it wouldn't do , all of it . 
Up came the clouds and the clouds , and they came faster and faster , until the moon was covered up . 
You couldn't expect her to throw off a hundred of them at once could you ? Certainly not , said Diamond . 
So it grew very dark and a dog began to yelp in the house . 
I looked and saw that the door to the garden was shut . 
Presently it was opened not to let me out , but to let the dog in yelping and bounding . 
I thought if he caught sight of me , I was in for a biting first , and the police after . 
So I jumped up , and ran for a little summer house in the corner of the garden . 
The dog came after me , but I shut the door in his face . 
It was well it had a door wasn't it ? You dreamed of the door because you wanted it , said Diamond . 
No , I didn't it came of itself . 
It was there , in the true dream . 
There I've caught you ! said Diamond . 
I knew you believed in the dream as much as I do . 
Oh , well , if you will lay traps for a body ! said Nanny . 
Anyhow , I was safe inside the summer house . 
And what do you think ? There was the moon beginning to shine again but only through one of the panes and that one was just the colour of the ruby . 
Wasn't it funny ? No , not a bit funny , said Diamond . 
If you will be contrary ! said Nanny . 
No , no , said Diamond I only meant that was the very pane I should have expected her to shine through . 
Oh , very well ! returned Nanny . 
What Diamond meant , I do not pretend to say . 
He had curious notions about things . 
And now , said Nanny , I didn't know what to do , for the dog kept barking at the door , and I couldn't get out . 
But the moon was so beautiful that I couldn't keep from looking at it through the red pane . 
The dog stopped barking , and I heard a gentle tapping at the door , like the wind blowing a little branch against it . 
Just like her , said Diamond , who thought everything strange and beautiful must be done by North Wind . 
So I turned from the window and opened the door and what do you think I saw ? A beautiful lady , said Diamond . 
No the moon itself , as big as a little house , and as round as a ball , shining like yellow silver . 
We're come to fetch you . 
I wasn't a bit frightened . 
She seemed rather sad , and I was sorry for her , and stood staring at her . 
You didn't think I had such a beautiful mistress as that ! said the queer little man . 
No , indeed ! I answered who would have thought it ? Ah ! who indeed ? But you see you don't know everything . 
The little man closed the door , and began to pull at a rope which hung behind it with a weight at the end . 
After he had pulled a while , he said There , that will do we're all right now . 
Don't be frightened , said the tittle man . 
Put your face down and look through . 
I did as he told me , and there was the garden and the summer house , far away , lying at the bottom of the moonlight . 
Can you see anything so small and so far off ? I said . 
Bless you , child ! said the little man I could pick up a needle out of the grass if I had only a long enough arm . 
There's one lying by the door of the summer house now . 
I looked at his eyes . 
They were very small , but so bright that I think he saw by the light that went out of them . 
What nonsense you do talk ! said Nanny . 
But my nonsense is just as good as yours , Nanny . 
When you have done , I'll tell you my dream . 
The stars are in it not the moon , though . 
Perhaps she was gone to fetch you then . 
I don't think that , though , for my dream was longer ago than yours . 
She might have been to fetch some one else , though for we can't fancy it's only us that get such fine things done for them . 
But do tell me what came next . 
Perhaps one of my child readers may remember whether the moon came down to fetch him or her the same night that Diamond had his dream . 
I cannot tell , of course . 
I know she did not come to fetch me , though I did think I could make her follow me when I was a boy not a very tiny one either . 
The little man took me all round the house , and made me look out of every window . 
You won't find it very difficult , for there ain't much dust up here . 
Only , the frost settles on them sometimes , and the drops of rain leave marks on them . 
I can easily clean them inside , I said but how am I to get the frost and rain off the outside of them ? Oh ! he said , it's quite easy . 
There are ladders all about . 
You've only got to go out at the door , and climb about . 
There are a great many windows you haven't seen yet , and some of them look into places you don't know anything about . 
I used to clean them myself , but I'm getting rather old , you see . 
Ain't I now ? I can't tell , I answered . 
You see I never saw you when you were younger . 
Never saw the man in the moon ? said he . 
Not very near , I answered , not to tell how young or how old he looked . 
I have seen the bundle of sticks on his back . 
For Jim had pointed that out to me . 
Jim was very fond of looking at the man in the moon . 
Poor Jim ! I wonder he hasn't been to see me . 
I'm afraid he's ill too . 
I'll try to find out , said Diamond , and let you know . 
Thank you , said Nanny . 
You and Jim ought to be friends . 
But what did the man in the moon say , when you told him you had seen him with the bundle of sticks on his back ? He laughed . 
But I thought he looked offended too . 
His little nose turned up sharper , and he drew the corners of his mouth down from the tips of his ears into his neck . 
But he didn't look cross , you know . 
Didn't he say anything ? Oh , yes ! He said That's all nonsense . 
What you saw was my bundle of dusters . 
I was going to clean the windows . 
It takes a good many , you know . 
Really , what they do say of their superiors down there ! It's only because they don't know better , I ventured to say . 
Of course , of course , said the little man . 
Nobody ever does know better . 
Well , I forgive them , and that sets it all right , I hope . 
It's very good of you , I said . 
No ! said he , it's not in the least good of me . 
I couldn't be comfortable otherwise . 
After this he said nothing for a while , and I laid myself on the floor of his garret , and stared up and around at the great blue beautifulness . 
I had forgotten him almost , when at last he said Ain't you done yet ? Done what ? I asked . 
Done saying your prayers , says he . 
'I wasn't saying my prayers , I answered . 
Oh , yes , you were , said he , though you didn't know it ! And now I must show you something else . 
He took my hand and led me down the stair again , and through a narrow passage , and through another , and another , and another . 
I don't know how there could be room for so many passages in such a little house . 
The heart of it must be ever so much farther from the sides than they are from each other . 
How could it have an inside that was so independent of its outside ? There's the point . 
It was funny wasn't it , Diamond ? No , said Diamond . 
He was going to say that that was very much the sort of thing at the back of the north wind but he checked himself and only added , All right . 
I don't see why the inside should depend on the outside . 
It ain't so with the crabs . 
They creep out of their outsides and make new ones . 
Mr. Raymond told me so . 
I don't see what that has got to do with it , said Nanny . 
Then go on with your story , please , said Diamond . 
What did you come to , after going through all those winding passages into the heart of the moon ? I didn't say they were winding passages . 
I said they were long and narrow . 
That's worth knowing , remarked Diamond . 
The little man told me to put my ear against it . 
I did so , and heard a noise something like the purring of a cat , only not so loud , and much sweeter . 
What is it ? I asked . 
Don't you know the sound ? returned the little man . 
Don't you know the sound of bees ? he said . 
I had never heard bees , and could not know the sound of them . 
Those are my lady's bees , he went on . 
I had heard that bees gather honey from the flowers . 
But where are the flowers for them ? I asked . 
My lady's bees gather their honey from the sun and the stars , said the little man . 
Do let me see them , I said . 
No. I daren't do that , he answered . 
I have no business with them . 
Besides , they are so bright that if one were to fly into your eye , it would blind you altogether . 
Then you have seen them ? Oh , yes ! Once or twice , I think . 
But I don't quite know they are so very bright like buttons of lightning . 
Now I've showed you all I can to night , and we'll go back to the room . 
I followed him , and he made me sit down under a lamp that hung from the roof , and gave me some bread and honey . 
The lady had never moved . 
She sat with her forehead leaning on her hand , gazing out of the little window , hung like the rest with white cloudy curtains . 
From where I was sitting I looked out of it too , but I could see nothing . 
Her face was very beautiful , and very white , and very still , and her hand was as white as the forehead that leaned on it . 
I did not see her whole face only the side of it , for she never moved to turn it full upon me , or even to look at me . 
How long I sat after I had eaten my bread and honey , I don't know . 
The little man was busy about the room , pulling a string here , and a string there , but chiefly the string at the back of the door . 
I was thinking with some uneasiness that he would soon be wanting me to go out and clean the windows , and I didn't fancy the job . 
At last he came up to me with a great armful of dusters . 
It's time you set about the windows , he said for there's rain coming , and if they're quite clean before , then the rain can't spoil them . 
I got up at once . 
You needn't be afraid , he said . 
Only you must be careful . 
Always hold on with one hand while you rub with the other . 
As he spoke , he opened the door . 
I started back in a terrible fright , for there was nothing but blue air to be seen under me , like a great water without a bottom at all . 
The little man showed me how and where to lay hold while I put my foot round the edge of the door on to the first round of a ladder . 
Once you're up , he said , you'll see how you have to go well enough . 
I did as he told me , and crept out very carefully . 
Then the little man handed me the bundle of dusters , saying , I always carry them on my reaping hook , but I don't think you could manage it properly . 
You shall have it if you like . 
I wouldn't take it , however , for it looked dangerous . 
I did the best I could with the dusters , and crawled up to the top of the moon . 
But what a grand sight it was ! The stars were all over my head , so bright and so near that I could almost have laid hold of them . 
The round ball to which I clung went bobbing and floating away through the dark blue above and below and on every side . 
It was so beautiful that all fear left me , and I set to work diligently . 
I cleaned window after window . 
At length I came to a very little one , in at which I peeped . 
There was the room with the box of bees in it ! I laid my ear to the window , and heard the musical hum quite distinctly . 
A great longing to see them came upon me , and I opened the window and crept in . 
The little box had a door like a closet . 
No sooner had I reached the room , than the three bees , which had followed me , flew at once to the lady , and settled upon her hair . 
Then first I saw her move . 
She started , put up her hand , and caught them then rose and , having held them into the flame of the lamp one after the other , turned to me . 
Her face was not so sad now as stern . 
Nanny , you have got me into trouble , she said . 
You have been letting out my bees , which it is all I can do to manage . 
You have forced me to burn them . 
It is a great loss , and there will be a storm . 
As she spoke , the clouds had gathered all about us . 
I could see them come crowding up white about the windows . 
I am sorry to find , said the lady , that you are not to be trusted . 
You must go home again you won't do for us . 
Then came a great clap of thunder , and the moon rocked and swayed . 
All grew dark about me , and I fell on the floor and lay half stunned . 
I could hear everything but could see nothing . 
Shall I throw her out of the door , my lady ? said the little man . 
No , she answered she's not quite bad enough for that . 
I don't think there's much harm in her only she'll never do for us . 
She would make dreadful mischief up here . 
She's only fit for the mud . 
I am sorry for her . 
Just take that ring off her finger . 
I am sadly afraid she has stolen it . 
The little man caught hold of my hand , and I felt him tugging at the ring . 
I tried to speak what was true about it , but , after a terrible effort , only gave a groan . 
Other things began to come into my head . 
Somebody else had a hold of me . 
The little man wasn't there . 
I opened my eyes at last , and saw the nurse . 
I had cried out in my sleep , and she had come and waked me . 
But , Diamond , for all it was only a dream , I cannot help being ashamed of myself yet for opening the lady's box of bees . 
You woudn't do it again would you if she were to take you back ? said Diamond . 
No. I don't think anything would ever make me do it again . 
But where's the good ? I shall never have the chance . 
I don't know that , said Diamond . 
You silly baby ! It was only a dream , said Nanny . 
I know that , Nanny , dear . 
But how can you tell you mayn't dream it again ? That's not a bit likely . 
I don't know that , said Diamond . 
You're always saying that , said Nanny . 
Then I won't say it again if I don't forget . 
Do try to go again , Nanny . 
I do so want to hear more . 
It would be tiresome to lie there all day and all night too without dreaming . 
She was not very strong yet , but Diamond's mother was very considerate of her , and took care that she should have nothing to do she was not quite fit for . 
It was great fun to see Diamond teaching her how to hold the baby , and wash and dress him , and often they laughed together over her awkwardness . 
But she had not many such lessons before she was able to perform those duties quite as well as Diamond himself . 
Things however did not go well with Joseph from the very arrival of Ruby . 
It almost seemed as if the red beast had brought ill luck with him . 
The fares were fewer , and the pay less . 
Ruby's services did indeed make the week's income at first a little beyond what it used to be , but then there were two more to feed . 
After the first month he fell lame , and for the whole of the next Joseph dared not attempt to work him . 
I cannot say that he never grumbled , for his own health was far from what it had been but I can say that he tried to do his best . 
Nor was it much better after Ruby was able to work again , for it was a season of great depression in business , and that is very soon felt amongst the cabmen . 
City men look more after their shillings , and their wives and daughters have less to spend . 
It was besides a wet autumn , and bread rose greatly in price . 
For Diamond had taken her education in hand , and as she was a clever child , she was very soon able to put letters and words together . 
Thus the three months passed away , but Mr. Raymond did not return . 
Where the difference in his songs lay , however , I do not pretend to be able to point out . 
How they managed to get through the long dreary expensive winter , I can hardly say . 
Sometimes things were better , sometimes worse . 
But at last the spring came , and the winter was over and gone , and that was much . 
One week at last was worse than they had yet had . 
They were almost without bread before it was over . 
But the sadder he saw his father and mother looking , the more Diamond set himself to sing to the two babies . 
One thing which had increased their expenses was that they had been forced to hire another little room for Nanny . 
CHAPTER XXXII DIAMOND AND RUBY IT WAS Friday night , and Diamond , like the rest of the household , had had very little to eat that day . 
The mother would always pay the week's rent before she laid out anything even on food . 
His father had been very gloomy so gloomy that he had actually been cross to his wife . 
It is a strange thing how pain of seeing the suffering of those we love will sometimes make us add to their suffering by being cross with them . 
Diamond in consequence had gone to bed very quiet and thoughtful a little troubled indeed . 
It had been a very stormy winter . 
and even now that the spring had come , the north wind often blew . 
His heart beat very fast , it was such a long time since he had heard that voice . 
He jumped out of bed , and looked everywhere , but could not see her . 
Diamond , come here , she said again and again but where the here was he could not tell . 
To be sure the room was all but quite dark , and she might be close beside him . 
Dear North Wind , said Diamond , I want so much to go to you , but I can't tell where . 
Come here , Diamond , was all her answer . 
Diamond opened the door , and went out of the room , and down the stair and into the yard . 
His little heart was in a flutter , for he had long given up all thought of seeing her again . 
Neither now was he to see her . 
When he got out , a great puff of wind came against him , and in obedience to it he turned his back , and went as it blew . 
It blew him right up to the stable door , and went on blowing . 
She wants me to go into the stable , said Diamond to himself . 
but the door is locked . 
He knew where the key was , in a certain hole in the wall far too high for him to get at . 
He ran to the place , however just as he reached it there came a wild blast , and down fell the key clanging on the stones at his feet . 
He picked it up , and ran back and opened the stable door , and went in . 
The light showed the white mark on Diamond's forehead , but Ruby's eye shone so bright , that he thought more light came out of it than went in . 
This is what he saw . 
The first words he heard were from Diamond , who apparently had been already quarrelling with Ruby . 
Look how fat you are Ruby ! said old Diamond . 
You are so plump and your skin shines so , you ought to be ashamed of yourself . 
There's no harm in being fat , said Ruby in a deprecating tone . 
No , nor in being sleek . 
I may as well shine as not . 
No harm ? retorted Diamond . 
Your master's not mine , said Ruby . 
I must attend to my own master's interests , and eat all that is given me , and be sleek and fat as I can , and go no faster than I need . 
Now really if the rest of the horses weren't all asleep , poor things they work till they're tired I do believe they would get up and kick you out of the stable . 
You make me ashamed of being a horse . 
If I were his own horse , he would work me as hard as he does you . 
And I'm proud to be so worked . 
I wouldn't be as fat as you not for all you're worth . 
You're a disgrace to the stable . 
Look at the horse next you . 
He's something like a horse all skin and bone . 
And his master ain't over kind to him either . 
He put a stinging lash on his whip last week . 
But that old horse knows he's got the wife and children to keep as well as his drunken master and he works like a horse . 
I daresay he grudges his master the beer he drinks , but I don't believe he grudges anything else . 
Well , I don't grudge yours what he gets by me , said Ruby . 
What he gets isn't worth grudging . 
It comes to next to nothing what with your fat and shine . 
Well , at least you ought to be thankful you're the better for it . 
You get a two hours' rest a day out of it . 
I thank my master for that not you , you lazy fellow ! You go along like a buttock of beef upon castors you do . 
Ain't you afraid I'll kick , if you go on like that , Diamond ? Kick ! You couldn't kick if you tried . 
It's my belief , once out , they'd stick out for ever . 
Talk of kicking ! Why don't you put one foot before the other now and then when you're in the cab ? The abuse master gets for your sake is quite shameful . 
No decent horse would bring it on him . 
Depend upon it , Ruby , no cabman likes to be abused any more than his fare . 
But his fares , at least when you are between the shafts , are very much to be excused . 
Well , you see , Diamond , I don't want to go lame again . 
I don't believe you were so very lame after all there ! Oh , but I was . 
Then I believe it was all your own fault . 
I never was lame in all my life . 
You don't take care of your legs . 
You never lay them down at night . 
There you are with your huge carcass crushing down your poor legs all night long . 
You don't even care for your own legs so long as you can eat , eat , and sleep , sleep . 
You a horse indeed ! But I tell you I was lame . 
I'm not denying there was a puffy look about your off pastern . 
But my belief is , it wasn't even grease it was fat . 
I tell you I put my foot on one of those horrid stones they make the roads with , and it gave my ankle such a twist . 
Ankle indeed ! Why should you ape your betters ? Horses ain't got any ankles they're only pasterns . 
It's not your lively horse that comes to grief in that way . 
I tell you I believe it wasn't much , and if it was , it was your own fault . 
I'll try to think as well of you as I can . 
I say , Diamond , I can't bear to have an honest old horse like you think of me like that . 
I will tell you the truth it was my own fault that I fell lame . 
I told you so , returned the other , tumbling against the partition as he rolled over on his side to give his legs every possible privilege in their narrow circumstances . 
I meant to do it , Diamond . 
You a horse ! Why did you do that ? Because I wanted to grow fat . 
You ain't fit to be a horse . 
Because once I am fat , my nature is to keep fat for a long time and I didn't know when master might come home and want to see me . 
You conceited , good for nothing brute ! You're only fit for the knacker's yard . 
You wanted to look handsome , did you ? Hold your tongue , or I'll break my halter and be at you with your handsome fat ! Never mind , Diamond . 
Can't hurt you ! Just let me once try . 
Why then ? Because I'm an angel . 
What's that ? Of course you don't know . 
An ignorant , rude old human horse , like you , couldn't know it . 
The horses the angels ride , must be angel horses , else the angels couldn't ride upon them . 
Well , I'm one of them . 
Did you ever know a horse tell a lie ? Never before . 
But you've confessed to shamming lame . 
It was necessary I should grow fat , and necessary that good Joseph , your master , should grow lean . 
I could have pretended to be lame , but that no horse , least of all an angel horse would do . 
Old Diamond made no reply . 
When young Diamond found this , he thought he might venture to take up the dropt shuttlecock of the conversation . 
I'm good enough to believe it , Ruby , he said . 
But Ruby never turned his head , or took any notice of him . 
I suppose he did not understand more of English than just what the coachman and stableman were in the habit of addressing him with . 
I declare the old horse is fast asleep ! Diamond ! No I won't . 
Ruby turned away , and began pulling at his hayrack in silence . 
Diamond gave a shiver , and looking round saw that the door of the stable was open . 
CHAPTER XXXIII THE PROSPECT BRIGHTENS THE next morning , Diamond's mother said to his father , I'm not quite comfortable about that child again . 
Which child , Martha ? asked Joseph . 
You've got a choice now . 
Well , Diamond I mean . 
I'm afraid he's getting into his queer ways again . 
He's been at his old trick of walking in his sleep . 
I saw him run up the stair in the middle of the night . 
Didn't you go after him , wife ? Of course I did and found him fast asleep in his bed . 
It's because he's had so little meat for the last six weeks , I'm afraid . 
And after all I don't know . 
I don't see why he shouldn't get on as well as the rest of us . 
There I'm nursing baby all this time , and I get along pretty well . 
I'm sure , to hear the little man singing , you wouldn't think there was much amiss with him . 
For at that moment Diamond was singing like a lark in the clouds . 
He had the new baby in his arms , while his mother was dressing herself . 
He had groomed both horses , and had got old Diamond harnessed ready to put to . 
Think of a fat angel , Dulcimer ! said Diamond . 
He sprained his ankle and got fat on purpose . 
What purpose , Diamond ? asked his father . 
Ah ! that I can't tell . 
I suppose to look handsome when his master comes , answered Diamond . 
What do you think , Dulcimer ? It must be for some good , for Ruby's an angel . 
I wish I were rid of him , anyhow , said his father for he weighs heavy on my mind . 
No wonder , father he's so fat , said Diamond . 
But you needn't be afraid , for everybody says he's in better condition than when you had him . 
Yes , but he may be as thin as a tin horse before his owner comes . 
It was too bad to leave him on my hands this way . 
Perhaps he couldn't help it , suggested Diamond . 
I daresay he has some good reason for it . 
So I should have said , returned his father , if he had not driven such a hard bargain with me at first . 
But we don't know what may come of it yet , husband , said his wife . 
Mr. Raymond may give a little to boot , seeing you've had more of the bargain than you wanted or reckoned upon . 
I'm afraid not he's a hard man , said Joseph , as he rose and went to get his cab out . 
For some time he carolled snatches of everything or anything but at last it settled down into something like what follows . 
I cannot tell where or how he got it . 
Where did you come from , baby dear ? Out of the everywhere into here . 
Where did you get your eyes so blue ? Out of the sky as I came through . 
What makes the light in them sparkle and spin ? Some of the starry spikes left in . 
Where did you get that little tear ? I found it waiting when I got here . 
What makes your forehead so smooth and high ? A soft hand stroked it as I went by . 
What makes your cheek like a warm white rose ? I saw something better than any one knows . 
Whence that three cornered smile of bliss ? Three angels gave me at once a kiss . 
Where did you get this pearly ear ? God spoke , and it came out to hear . 
Where did you get those arms and hands ? Love made itself into hooks and bands . 
Feet , whence did you come , you darling things ? From the same box as the cherubs' wings . 
How did they all just come to be you ? God thought about me , and so I grew . 
But how did you come to us , you dear ? God thought about you , and so I am here . 
You never made that song , Diamond , said his mother . 
That would be to take it from somebody else . 
But it's mine for all that . 
What makes it yours ? I love it so . 
Does loving a thing make it yours ? I think so , mother at least more than anything else can . 
If I didn't love baby she wouldn't be mine a bit . 
But I do love baby , and baby is my very own Dulcimer . 
The baby's mine , Diamond . 
That makes her the more mine , mother . 
How do you make that out ? Because you're mine , mother . 
Is that because you love me ? Yes , just because . 
Love makes the only myness , said Diamond . 
We shall all have to go to the workhouse , wife , he said . 
It would be better to go to the back of the north wind , said Diamond , dreamily , not intending to say it aloud . 
So it would , answered his father . 
But how are we to get there , Diamond ? We must wait till we're taken , returned Diamond . 
Before his father could speak again , a knock came to the door , and in walked Mr. Raymond with a smile on his face . 
Joseph got up and received him respectfully , but not very cordially . 
Martha set a chair for him , but he would not sit down . 
You are not very glad to see me , he said to Joseph . 
You don't want to part with the old horse . 
Indeed , sir , you are mistaken there . 
What with anxiety about him , and bad luck , I've wished I were rid of him a thousand times . 
It was only to be for three months , and here it's eight or nine . 
I'm sorry to hear such a statement , said Mr. Raymond . 
Hasn't he been of service to you ? Not much , not with his lameness Ah ! said Mr. Raymond , hastily you've been laming him have you ? That accounts for it . 
I see , I see . 
It wasn't my fault , and he's all right now . 
I don't know how it happened , but He did it on purpose , said Diamond . 
He put his foot on a stone just to twist his ankle . 
How do you know that , Diamond ? said his father , turning to him . 
I never said so , for I could not think how it came . 
I heard it in the stable , answered Diamond . 
Let's have a look at him , said Mr. Raymond . 
If you'll step into the yard , said Joseph , I'll bring him out . 
They went , and Joseph , having first taken off his harness , walked Ruby into the middle of the yard . 
Why , said Mr. Raymond , you've not been using him well . 
I don't know what you mean by that , sir . 
I didn't expect to hear that from you . 
He's sound in wind and limb as sound as a barrel . 
And as big , you might add . 
Why , he's as fat as a pig ! You don't call that good usage ! Joseph was too angry to make any answer . 
You've not worked him enough , I say . 
That's not making good use of him . 
That's not doing as you'd be done by . 
I shouldn't be sorry if I was served the same , sir . 
He's too fat , I say . 
There was a whole month I couldn't work him at all , and he did nothing but eat his head off . 
I declare to you , sir , when he's between the shafts , I sit on the box as miserable as if I'd stolen him . 
He looks all the time as if he was a bottling up of complaints to make of me the minute he set eyes on you again . 
I'm glad to hear it . 
He never did want the whip . 
I didn't say that , sir . 
If ever a horse wanted the whip , he do . 
He's brought me to beggary almost with his snail's pace . 
I'm very glad you've come to rid me of him . 
I don't know that , said Mr. Raymond . 
Suppose I were to ask you to buy him of me cheap . 
I wouldn't have him in a present , sir . 
And I wouldn't drive a horse that I didn't like no , not for gold . 
It can't come to good where there's no love between 'em . 
Just bring out your own horse , and let me see what sort of a pair they'd make . 
Joseph laughed rather bitterly as he went to fetch Diamond . 
When the two were placed side by side , Mr. Raymond could hardly keep his countenance , but from a mingling of feelings . 
Beside the great , red , round barrel , Ruby , all body and no legs , Diamond looked like a clothes horse with a skin thrown over it . 
There was hardly a spot of him where you could not descry some sign of a bone underneath . 
Gaunt and grim and weary he stood , kissing his master , and heeding no one else . 
You haven't been using him well , said Mr. Raymond . 
I must say , returned Joseph , throwing an arm round his horse's neck , that the remark had better have been spared , sir . 
The horse is worth three of the other now . 
I think they make a very nice pair . 
If the one's too fat , the other's too lean so that's all right . 
And if you won't buy my Ruby , I must buy your Diamond . 
Thank you , sir , said Joseph , in a tone implying anything but thanks . 
You don't seem to like the proposal , said Mr. Raymond . 
I don't , returned Joseph . 
I wouldn't part with my old Diamond for his skin as full of nuggets as it is of bones . 
Who said anything about parting with him ? You did now , sir . 
I only spoke of buying him to make a pair with Ruby . 
We could pare Ruby and patch Diamond a bit . 
And for height , they are as near a match as I care about . 
Of course you would be the coachman if only you would consent to be reconciled to Ruby . 
Joseph stood bewildered , unable to answer . 
I've bought a small place in Kent , continued Mr. Raymond , and I must have a pair to my carriage , for the roads are hilly thereabouts . 
I don't want to make a show with a pair of high steppers . 
I think these will just do . 
Suppose , for a week or two , you set yourself to take Ruby down and bring Diamond up . 
If we could only lay a pipe from Ruby's sides into Diamond's , it would be the work of a moment . 
But I fear that wouldn't answer . 
A strong inclination to laugh intruded upon Joseph's inclination to cry , and made speech still harder than before . 
I beg your pardon , sir , he said at length . 
I've been so miserable , and for so long , that I never thought you was only a chaffing of me when you said I hadn't used the horses well . 
I could not part with him , sir . 
Well , there's a cheque for twenty pounds , which I wrote to offer you for him , in case I should find you had done the handsome thing by Ruby . 
Will that be enough ? It's too much , sir . 
His body ain't worth it shoes and all . 
It's only his heart , sir that's worth millions but his heart'll be mine all the same so it's too much , sir . 
It won't be , at least , by the time we've got him fed up again . 
You take it and welcome . 
Diamond set you down for a friend , sir , the moment he saw you . 
I do believe that child of mine knows more than other people . 
I think so , too , said Mr. Raymond as he walked away . 
He had meant to test Joseph when he made the bargain about Ruby , but had no intention of so greatly prolonging the trial . 
He had been taken ill in Switzerland , and had been quite unable to return sooner . 
He went away now highly gratified at finding that he had stood the test , and was a true man . 
Joseph rushed in to his wife who had been standing at the window anxiously waiting the result of the long colloquy . 
When she heard that the horses were to go together in double harness , she burst forth into an immoderate fit of laughter . 
Diamond came up with the baby in his arms and made big anxious eyes at her , saying What is the matter with you , mother dear ? Do cry a little . 
It will do you good . 
When father takes ever so small a drop of spirits , he puts water to it . 
I think it's very good for different sorts to go together . 
Now Ruby will have a chance of teaching Diamond better manners . 
How dare you say such a thing , Diamond ? said his father , angrily . 
To compare the two for manners , there's no comparison possible . 
I don't mean to say he isn't , father for I daresay some gentlemen judge their neighbours unjustly . 
Diamond shouldn't have thought such bad things of Ruby . 
He didn't try to make the best of him . 
How do you know that , pray ? I heard them talking about it one night . 
Who ? Why Diamond and Ruby . 
Joseph stared and said no more . 
For all his new gladness , he was very gloomy as he re harnessed the angel , for he thought his darling Diamond was going out of his mind . 
He could not help thinking rather differently , however , when he found the change that had come over Ruby . 
Considering his fat , he exerted himself amazingly , and got over the ground with incredible speed . 
So willing , even anxious , was he to go now , that Joseph had to hold him quite tight . 
CHAPTER XXXIV IN THE COUNTRY BEFORE the end of the month , Ruby had got respectably thin , and Diamond respectably stout . 
They really began to look fit for double harness . 
As for Nanny , she had been so happy ever since she left the hospital , that she expected nothing better , and saw nothing attractive in the notion of the country . 
At the same time , she had not the least idea of what the word country meant , for she had never seen anything about her but streets and gas lamps . 
Now that she could manage the baby as well as he , she judged herself altogether his superior . 
Towards his father and mother , she was all they could wish . 
But when at length she went to live with Diamond's family , Jim was willing enough to go and see her . 
It was after one of his visits , during which they had been talking of her new prospects , that Nanny expressed to Diamond her opinion of the country . 
There ain't nothing in it but the sun and moon , Diamond . 
There's trees and flowers , said Diamond . 
Well , they ain't no count , returned Nanny . 
Ain't they ? They're so beautiful , they make you happy to look at them . 
That's because you're such a silly . 
Diamond smiled with a far away look , as if he were gazing through clouds of green leaves and the vision contented him . 
Ah ! how do you do , Diamond ? said Mr. Raymond I am glad to see you . 
And he was indeed , for he had grown very fond of him . 
His opinion of him was very different from Nanny's . 
What do you want now , my child ? he asked . 
I'm always wanting something , sir , answered Diamond . 
Well , that's quite right , so long as what you want is right . 
Everybody is always wanting something only we don't mention it in the right place often enough . 
What is it now ? There's a friend of Nanny's , a lame boy , called Jim . 
I've heard of him , said Mr. Raymond . 
Well ? Nanny doesn't care much about going to the country , sir . 
Well , what has that to do with Jim ? You couldn't find a corner for Jim to work in could you , sir ? I don't know that I couldn't . 
That is , if you can show good reason for it . 
He's a good boy , sir . 
Well , so much the better for him . 
I know he can shine boots , sir . 
So much the better for us . 
You want your boots shined in the country don't you , sir ? Yes , to be sure . 
It wouldn't be nice to walk over the flowers with dirty boots would it , sir ? No , indeed . 
They wouldn't like it would they ? No , they wouldn't . 
Then Nanny would be better pleased to go , sir . 
If the flowers didn't like dirty boots to walk over them , Nanny wouldn't mind going to the country ? Is that it ? I don't quite see it . 
No , sir I didn't mean that . 
I meant , if you would take Jim with you to clean your boots , and do odd jobs , you know , sir , then Nanny would like it better . 
She's so fond of Jim ! Now you come to the point , Diamond . 
I see what you mean , exactly . 
I will turn it over in my mind . 
Could you bring Jim to see me ? I'll try , sir . 
But they don't mind me much . 
They think I'm silly , added Diamond , with one of his sweetest smiles . 
What Mr. Raymond thought , I dare hardly attempt to put down here . 
But one part of it was , that the highest wisdom must ever appear folly to those who do not possess it . 
I think he would come though after dark , you know , Diamond continued . 
He does well at shining boots . 
People's kind to lame boys , you know , sir . 
But after dark , there ain't so much doing . 
Diamond succeeded in bringing Jim to Mr. Raymond , and the consequence was that he resolved to give the boy a chance . 
I will not describe the varied feelings of the party as they went , or when they arrived . 
All I will say is , that Diamond , who is my only care , was full of quiet delight a gladness too deep to talk about . 
Joseph returned to town the same night , and the next morning drove Ruby and Diamond down , with the carriage behind them , and Mr. Raymond and a lady in the carriage . 
For Mr. Raymond was an old bachelor no longer he was bringing his wife with him to live at The Mound . 
The moment Nanny saw her , she recognised her as the lady who had lent her the ruby ring . 
That ring had been given her by Mr. Raymond . 
The weather was very hot , and the woods very shadowy . 
So they have their fun over , and are ready to go to bed again by the time the trees are dressed . 
But there was plenty of the loveliest grass and daisies about the house , and Diamond's chief pleasure seemed to be to lie amongst them , and breathe the pure air . 
But all the time , he was dreaming of the country at the back of the north wind , and trying to recall the songs the river used to sing . 
For this was more like being at the back of the north wind than anything he had known since he left it . 
These were very different times from those when he used to drive the cab , but you must not suppose that Diamond was idle . 
Mr. Raymond advised his father to give him plenty of liberty . 
A boy like that , he said , ought not to be pushed . 
Joseph assented heartily , smiling to himself at the idea of pushing Diamond . 
After doing everything that fell to his share , the boy had a wealth of time at his disposal . 
And a happy , sometimes a merry time it was . 
Only for two months or so , he neither saw nor heard anything of North Wind . 
CHAPTER XXXV I MAKE DIAMOND'S ACQUAINTANCE MR . 
RAYMOND'S house was called The Mound , because it stood upon a little steep knoll , so smooth and symmetrical that it showed itself at once to be artificial . 
The mound had been cast up to give a good basement advantage over the neighbouring heights and woods . 
Joseph and his wife lived in a little cottage a short way from the house . 
So he was dressed in a suit of blue , from which his pale face and fair hair came out like the loveliest blossom , and took up his abode in the house . 
Would you be afraid to sleep alone , Diamond ? asked his mistress . 
I don't know what you mean , ma'am , said Diamond . 
I never was afraid of anything that I can recollect not much , at least . 
Near the top they entered a tiny little room , with two windows from which you could see over the whole country . 
Diamond clapped his hands with delight . 
You would like this room , then , Diamond ? said his mistress . 
It's the grandest room in the house , he answered . 
I shall be near the stars , and yet not far from the tops of the trees . 
That's just what I like . 
I daresay he thought , also , that it would be a nice place for North Wind to call at in passing but he said nothing of that sort . 
Below him spread a lake of green leaves , with glimpses of grass here and there at the bottom of it . 
As he looked down , he saw a squirrel appear suddenly , and as suddenly vanish amongst the topmost branches . 
Aha ! little squirrel , he cried , my nest is built higher than yours . 
You can be up here with your books as much as you like , said his mistress . 
I will have a little bell hung at the door , which I can ring when I want you . 
Half way down the stair is the drawing room . 
So Diamond was installed as page , and his new room got ready for him . 
It was very soon after this that I came to know Diamond . 
I was then a tutor in a family whose estate adjoined the little property belonging to The Mound . 
He was sitting at the foot of a great beech tree , a few yards from the road , with a book on his knees . 
He did not see me . 
I walked up behind the tree , and peeping over his shoulder , saw that he was reading a fairy book . 
What are you reading ? I said , and spoke suddenly , with the hope of seeing a startled little face look round at me . 
Diamond turned his head as quietly as if he were only obeying his mother's voice , and the calmness of his face rebuked my unkind desire and made me ashamed of it . 
I am reading the story of the Little Lady and the Goblin Prince , said Diamond . 
I am sorry I don't know the story , I returned . 
Who is it by ? Mr. Raymond made it . 
Is he your uncle ? I asked at a guess . 
What do you do for him ? I asked respectfully . 
Anything he wishes me to do , he answered . 
I am busy for him now . 
He gave me this story to read . 
He wants my opinion upon it . 
Don't you find it rather hard to make up your mind ? Oh dear no ! Any story always tells me itself what I'm to think about it . 
Mr. Raymond doesn't want me to say whether it is a clever story or not , but whether I like it , and why I like it . 
I never can tell what they call clever from what they call silly , but I always know whether I like a story or not . 
And can you always tell why you like it or not ? No. Very often I can't at all . 
I always know , but I can't always tell why . 
Mr. Raymond writes the stories , and then tries them on me . 
Mother does the same when she makes jam . 
She's made such a lot of jam since we came here ! And she always makes me taste it to see if it'll do . 
Mother knows by the face I make whether it will or not . 
At this moment I caught sight of two more children approaching . 
One was a handsome girl , the other a pale faced , awkward looking boy , who limped much on one leg . 
I withdrew a little , to see what would follow , for they seemed in some consternation . 
From them I learned something of Diamond , and was in consequence the more glad to find him , when I returned , seated in the same place as before . 
What did the boy and girl want with you , Diamond ? I asked . 
They had seen a creature that frightened them . 
And they came to tell you about it ? They couldn't get water out of the well for it . 
So they wanted me to go with them . 
They're both bigger than you . 
Yes , but they were frightened at it . 
And weren't you frightened at it ? No. Why ? Because I'm silly . 
I'm never frightened at things . 
I could not help thinking of the old meaning of the word silly . 
And what was it ? I asked . 
I think it was a kind of an angel a very little one . 
It had a long body and great wings , which it drove about it so fast that they grew a thin cloud all round it . 
And what did you do to drive it away ? I didn't drive it away . 
I knew , whatever the creature was , the well was to get water out of . 
So I took the jug , dipped it in , and drew the water . 
And what did the creature do ? Flew about . 
And it didn't hurt you ? No. Why should it ? I wasn't doing anything wrong . 
What did your companions say then ? They said Thank you , Diamond . 
I don't mind it much , though . 
The other creatures are friendly . 
They don't run away from me . 
Only they're all so busy with their own work , they don't mind me much . 
Do you feel lonely , then ? Oh , no ! When nobody minds me , I get into my nest , and look up . 
And then the sky does mind me , and thinks about me . 
Where is your nest ? He rose , saying , I will show you , and led me to the other side of the tree . 
There hung a little rope ladder from one of the lower boughs . 
The boy climbed up the ladder and got upon the bough . 
Then he climbed farther into the leafy branches , and went out of sight . 
After a little while , I heard his voice coming down out of the tree . 
I am in my nest now , said the voice . 
I can't see you , I returned . 
I can't see you either , but I can see the first star peeping out of the sky . 
I should like to get up into the sky . 
Don't you think I shall , some day ? Yes , I do . 
Tell me what more you see up there . 
I don't see anything more , except a few leaves , and the big sky over me . 
The earth is all behind my back . 
There comes another star ! The wind is like kisses from a big lady . 
When I get up here I feel as if I were in North Wind's arms . 
This was the first I heard of North Wind . 
A gush of reverence came over me , and with a single goodnight , I turned and left him in his nest . 
I saw him often after this , and gained so much of his confidence that he told me all I have told you . 
I cannot pretend to account for it . 
I leave that for each philosophical reader to do after his own fashion . 
The easiest way is that of Nanny and Jim , who said often to each other that Diamond had a tile loose . 
It was plainer to others than to himself that he felt the desertion of Nanny and Jim . 
They appeared to regard him as a mere toy , except when they found he could minister to the scruple of using him generally with success . 
One very strange thing is that I could never find out where he got some of his many songs . 
At times they would be but bubbles blown out of a nursery rhyme , as was the following , which I heard him sing one evening to his little Dulcimer . 
There were about a score of sheep feeding in a paddock near him , their white wool dyed a pale rose in the light of the setting sun . 
Those in the long shadows from the trees were dead white those in the sunlight were half glorified with pale rose . 
Little Bo Peep , she lost her sheep , And didn't know where to find them They were over the height and out of sight , Trailing their tails behind them . 
And day's eyes and butter cups , cow's lips and crow's feet Were glittering in the sun . 
She threw down her book , and caught up her crook , And after her sheep did run . 
She ran , and she ran , and ever as she ran , The grass grew higher and higher Till over the hill the sun began To set in a flame of fire . 
And as she slept the dew fell fast , And the wind blew from the sky And strange things took place that shun the day's face , Because they are sweet and shy . 
Nibble , nibble , crop ! she heard as she woke A hundred little lambs Did pluck and eat the grass so sweet That grew in the trails of their dams . 
Little Bo Peep caught up her crook , And wiped the tears that did blind her . 
And nibble , nibble crop ! without a stop ! The lambs came eating behind her . 
Home , home she came , both tired and lame , With three times as many sheep . 
In a month or more , they'll be as big as before , And then she'll laugh in her sleep . 
I confess again to having touched up a little , but it loses far more in Diamond's sweet voice singing it than it gains by a rhyme here and there . 
Some of them were out of books Mr. Raymond had given him . 
These he always knew , but about the others he could seldom tell . 
Sometimes he would say , I made that one . 
but generally he would say , I don't know I found it somewhere or I got it at the back of the north wind . 
One evening I found him sitting on the grassy slope under the house , with his Dulcimer in his arms and his little brother rolling on the grass beside them . 
He was chanting in his usual way , more like the sound of a brook than anything else I can think of . 
When I went up to them he ceased his chant . 
Do go on , Diamond . 
Don't mind me , I said . 
He began again at once . 
While he sang , Nanny and Jim sat a little way off , one hemming a pocket handkerchief , and the other reading a story to her , but they never heeded Diamond . 
This is as near what he sang as I can recollect , or reproduce rather . 
What would you see if I took you up To my little nest in the air ? You would see the sky like a clear blue cup Turned upside downwards there . 
What would you do if I took you there To my little nest in the tree ? My child with cries would trouble the air , To get what she could but see . 
What would you get in the top of the tree For all your crying and grief ? Not a star would you clutch of all you see You could only gather a leaf . 
But when you had lost your greedy grief , Content to see from afar , You would find in your hand a withering leaf , In your heart a shining star . 
As Diamond went on singing , it grew very dark , and just as he ceased there came a great flash of lightning , that blinded us all for a moment . 
Dulcimer crowed with pleasure but when the roar of thunder came after it , the little brother gave a loud cry of terror . 
Nanny and Jim came running up to us , pale with fear . 
Diamond's face , too , was paler than usual , but with delight . 
Some of the glory seemed to have clung to it , and remained shining . 
You're not frightened are you , Diamond ? I said . 
No. Why should I be ? he answered with his usual question , looking up in my face with calm shining eyes . 
He ain't got sense to be frightened , said Nanny , going up to him and giving him a pitying hug . 
Perhaps there's more sense in not being frightened , Nanny , I returned . 
Do you think the lightning can do as it likes ? It might kill you , said Jim . 
Oh , no , it mightn't ! said Diamond . 
As he spoke there came another great flash , and a tearing crack . 
There ! cried Nanny I told you so . 
If you had been up there you see what would have happened , you little silly ! No , I don't , said Diamond , and began to sing to Dulcimer . 
All I could hear of the song , for the other children were going on with their chatter , was The clock struck one , And the mouse came down . 
Dickery , dickery , dock ! Then there came a blast of wind , and the rain followed in straight pouring lines , as if out of a watering pot . 
Diamond jumped up with his little Dulcimer in his arms , and Nanny caught up the little boy , and they ran for the cottage . 
Jim vanished with a double shuffle , and I went into the house . 
I saw the bough torn from the stem , and that was all the twilight would allow me to see . 
And then the voice ceased . 
Good night , Diamond , I said . 
Good night , sir , answered Diamond . 
CHAPTER XXXVI DIAMOND QUESTIONS NORTH WIND MY READERS will not wonder that , after this , I did my very best to gain the friendship of Diamond . 
Nor did I find this at all difficult , the child was so ready to trust . 
Upon one subject alone was he reticent the story of his relations with North Wind . 
I fancy he could not quite make up his mind what to think of them . 
At all events it was some little time before he trusted me with this , only then he told me everything . 
I let him see plainly enough , that whatever might be the explanation of the marvellous experience , I would have given much for a similar one myself . 
What are you always going up there for , Diamond ? I heard Nanny ask , rather rudely , I thought . 
Sometimes for one thing , sometimes for another , Nanny , answered Diamond , looking skywards as he climbed . 
You'll break your neck some day , she said . 
I'm going up to look at the moon to night , he added , without heeding her remark . 
You'll see the moon just as well down here , she returned . 
You'll be no nearer to her up there . 
Oh , yes ! I shall . 
I must be nearer her , you know . 
I wish I could dream as pretty dreams about her as you can , Nanny . 
You silly ! you never have done about that dream . 
I never dreamed but that one , and it was nonsense enough , I'm sure . 
It was a beautiful dream and a funny one too , both in one . 
But what's the good of talking about it that way , when you know it was only a dream ? Dreams ain't true . 
That one was true , Nanny . 
I went into the house , where I visited often in the evenings . 
When I came out , there was a little wind blowing , very pleasant after the heat of the day , for although it was late summer now , it was still hot . 
The tree tops were swinging about in it . 
I took my way past the beech , and called up to see if Diamond were still in his nest in its rocking head . 
Are you there , Diamond ? I said . 
Yes , sir , came his clear voice in reply . 
Isn't it growing too dark for you to get down safely ? Oh , no , sir if I take time to it . 
I know my way so well , and never let go with one hand till I've a good hold with the other . 
Do be careful , I insisted foolishly , seeing the boy was as careful as he could be already . 
I'm coming , he returned . 
I've got all the moon I want to night . 
I heard a rustling and a rustling drawing nearer and nearer . 
Three or four minutes elapsed , and he appeared at length creeping down his little ladder . 
I took him in my arms , and set him on the ground . 
Thank you , sir , he said . 
That's the north wind blowing , isn't it , sir ? I can't tell , I answered . 
It feels cool and kind , and I think it may be . 
But I couldn't be sure except it were stronger , for a gentle wind might turn any way amongst the trunks of the trees . 
I shall know when I get up to my own room , said Diamond . 
I think I hear my mistress's bell . 
He ran to the house , and I went home . 
His mistress had rung for him only to send him to bed , for she was very careful over him and I daresay thought he was not looking well . 
When he reached his own room , he opened both his windows , one of which looked to the north and the other to the east , to find how the wind blew . 
It blew right in at the northern window . 
Diamond was very glad , for he thought perhaps North Wind herself would come now a real north wind had never blown all the time since he left London . 
He was so full of quietness that he could go to sleep almost any time , if he only composed himself and let the sleep come . 
This time he went fast asleep as usual . 
But he woke in the dim blue night . 
He thought he heard a knocking at his door . 
Somebody wants me , he said to himself , and jumping out of bed , ran to open it . 
But there was no one there . 
He closed it again , and , the noise still continuing , found that another door in the room was rattling . 
It belonged to a closet , he thought , but he had never been able to open it . 
The wind blowing in at the window must be shaking it . 
He would go and see if it was so . 
The door now opened quite easily , but to his surprise , instead of a closet he found a long narrow room . 
The moon , which was sinking in the west , shone in at an open window at the further end . 
The room was low with a coved ceiling , and occupied the whole top of the house , immediately under the roof . 
The yellow light of the half moon streamed over the dark floor . 
He was so delighted at the discovery of the strange , desolate , moonlit place close to his own snug little room , that he began to dance and skip about the floor . 
The wind came in through the door he had left open , and blew about him as he danced , and he kept turning towards it that it might blow in his face . 
She was , as so often before , of the height of a rather tall lady . 
She did not stoop in order to dance with him , but held his hands high in hers . 
When he saw her , he gave one spring , and his arms were about her neck , and her arms holding him to her bosom . 
Please , dear North Wind , he said , I am so happy that I'm afraid it's a dream . 
How am I to know that it's not a dream ? What does it matter ? returned North Wind . 
I should , cry said Diamond . 
But why should you cry ? The dream , if it is a dream , is a pleasant one is it not ? That's just why I want it to be true . 
You would be nobody then , and I could not bear that . 
You ain't a dream , are you , dear North Wind ? Do say No , else I shall cry , and come awake , and you'll be gone for ever . 
I daren't dream about you once again if you ain't anybody . 
I'm either not a dream , or there's something better that's not a dream , Diamond , said North Wind , in a rather sorrowful tone , he thought . 
But it's not something better it's you I want , North Wind , he persisted , already beginning to cry a little . 
She made no answer , but rose with him in her arms and sailed away over the tree tops till they came to a meadow , where a flock of sheep was feeding . 
Oh yes , I do , well enough , answered Diamond but I never just quite liked that rhyme . 
Why not , child ? Because it seems to say one's as good as another , or two new ones are better than one that's lost . 
Somehow , when once you've looked into anybody's eyes , right deep down into them , I mean , nobody will do for that one any more . 
Nobody , ever so beautiful or so good , will make up for that one going out of sight . 
So you see , North Wind , I can't help being frightened to think that perhaps I am only dreaming , and you are nowhere at all . 
Do tell me that you are my own , real , beautiful North Wind . 
This frightened him still more . 
Do speak , North Wind , he said at last . 
I never speak when I have nothing to say , she replied . 
Then I do think you must be a real North Wind , and no dream , said Diamond . 
But I'm looking for something to say all the time . 
But I don't want you to say what's hard to find . 
But she mightn't know how to say what she had to say , so that a little boy like you would understand it , said North Wind . 
Here , let us get down again , and I will try to tell you what I think . 
You musn't suppose I am able to answer all your questions , though . 
There are a great many things I don't understand more than you do . 
She descended on a grassy hillock , in the midst of a wild furzy common . 
They would , Diamond thought , have leaped upon her lap , but that he was there already . 
You love me when you are not with me , don't you ? Indeed I do , answered Diamond , stroking her hand . 
You might have loved me in a dream , dreamily , and forgotten me when you woke , I daresay , but not loved me like a real being as you love me . 
Even then , I don't think you could dream anything that hadn't something real like it somewhere . 
But you've seen me in many shapes , Diamond you remember I was a wolf once don't you ? Oh yes a good wolf that frightened a naughty drunken nurse . 
Well , suppose I were to turn ugly , would you rather I weren't a dream then ? Yes for I should know that you were beautiful inside all the same . 
You would love me , and I should love you all the same . 
I shouldn't like you to look ugly , you know . 
But I shouldn't believe it a bit . 
Not if you saw it ? No , not if I saw it ever so plain . 
There's my Diamond ! I will tell you all I know about it then . 
I don't think I am just what you fancy me to be . 
I have to shape myself various ways to various people . 
But the heart of me is true . 
People call me by dreadful names , and think they know all about me . 
Sometimes they call me Bad Fortune , sometimes Evil Chance , sometimes Ruin and they have another name for me which they think the most dreadful of all . 
What is that ? asked Diamond , smiling up in her face . 
I won't tell you that name . 
Do you remember having to go through me to get into the country at my back ? Oh yes , I do . 
You were very near knowing what they call me then . 
You've never seen it yet . 
Haven't I , North Wind ? Oh ! I'm so sorry ! I thought I had . 
What did I see then ? Only a picture of it . 
The real country at my real back is ever so much more beautiful than that . 
You shall see it one day perhaps before very long . 
Do they sing songs there ? Don't you remember the dream you had about the little boys that dug for the stars ? Yes , that I do . 
I thought you must have had something to do with that dream , it was so beautiful . 
Yes I gave you that dream . 
Did you give Nanny her dream too about the moon and the bees ? Yes . 
I was the lady that sat at the window of the moon . 
I was almost sure you had something to do with that too . 
And did you tell Mr. Raymond the story about the Princess Daylight ? I believe I had something to do with it . 
At all events he thought about it one night when he couldn't sleep . 
But I want to ask you whether you remember the song the boy angels sang in that dream of yours . 
No. I couldn't keep it , do what I would , and I did try . 
How could that be , North Wind ? Because I didn't know it properly myself , and so I couldn't teach it to you . 
I could only make a rough guess at something like what it would be , and so I wasn't able to make you dream it hard enough to remember it . 
Nor would I have done so if I could , for it was not correct . 
I made you dream pictures of it , though . 
And now we've settled all this for the time , at least , said North Wind . 
But I can't feel quite sure yet , said Diamond . 
You must wait a while for that . 
Meantime you may be hopeful , and content not to be quite sure . 
Come now , I will take you home again , for it won't do to tire you too much . 
Oh , no , no . 
I'm not the least tired , pleaded Diamond . 
It is better , though . 
Very well if you wish it , yielded Diamond with a sigh . 
You are a dear good , boy said North Wind . 
I will come for you again to morrow night and take you out for a longer time . 
We shall make a little journey together , in fact . 
and as the moon will be , later , we shall have a little moonlight all the way . 
She rose , and swept over the meadow and the trees . 
In a few moments the Mound appeared below them . 
She sank a little , and floated in at the window of Diamond's room . 
There she laid him on his bed , covered him over , and in a moment he was lapt in a dreamless sleep . 
But he started suddenly , and found that he had been already asleep . 
He rose , and looking out of the window saw something white against his beech tree . 
She was holding by one hand to a top branch . 
Her hair and her garments went floating away behind her over the tree , whose top was swaying about while the others were still . 
Are you ready , Diamond ? she asked . 
Yes , answered Diamond , quite ready . 
In a moment she was at the window , and her arms came in and took him . 
She sailed away so swiftly that he could at first mark nothing but the speed with which the clouds above and the dim earth below went rushing past . 
At length they descended on the side of an open earthy hill , just where , from beneath a stone , a spring came bubbling out . 
I am going to take you along this little brook , said North Wind . 
I am not wanted for anything else to night , so I can give you a treat . 
She stooped over the stream and holding Diamond down close to the surface of it , glided along level with its flow as it ran down the hill . 
And the song of the brook came up into Diamond's ears , and grew and grew and changed with every turn . 
It seemed to Diamond to be singing the story of its life to him . 
It began with a musical tinkle which changed to a babble and then to a gentle rushing . 
Sometimes its song would almost cease , and then break out again , tinkle , babble , and rush , all at once . 
At the bottom of the hill they came to a small river , into which the brook flowed with a muffled but merry sound . 
Sometimes she would hold Diamond over a deep hollow curving into the bank , that he might look far into the cool stillness . 
Sometimes she would leave the river and sweep across a clover field . 
The bees were all at home , and the clover was asleep . 
Then she would return and follow the river . 
It grew wider and wider as it went . 
Wider and wider grew the stream , until they came upon boats lying along its banks , which rocked a little in the flutter of North Wind's garments . 
Then they would leave the river and float about and over the houses , one after another beautiful rich houses , which , like fine trees , had taken centuries to grow . 
There was scarcely a light to be seen , and not a movement to be heard all the people in them lay fast asleep . 
What a lot of dreams they must be dreaming ! said Diamond . 
Yes , returned North Wind . 
They can't surely be all lies can they ? I should think it depends a little on who dreams them , suggested Diamond . 
Yes , said North Wind . 
The people who think lies , and do lies , are very likely to dream lies . 
But the people who love what is true will surely now and then dream true things . 
But then something depends on whether the dreams are home grown , or whether the seed of them is blown over somebody else's garden wall . 
Ah ! there's some one awake in this house ! They were floating past a window in which a light was burning . 
Diamond heard a moan , and looked up anxiously in North Wind's face . 
It's a lady , said North Wind . 
She can't sleep for pain . 
Couldn't you do something for her ? said Diamond . 
What could I do ? Sing a little song to her . 
I will take you in , and then she will hear you . 
But that would be rude , wouldn't it ? You can go where you please , of course , but I should have no business in her room . 
You may trust me , Diamond . 
I shall take as good care of the lady as of you . 
By a shaded lamp , a lady was seated in a white wrapper , trying to read , but moaning every minute . 
North Wind floated behind her chair , set Diamond down , and told him to sing something . 
The flower is asleep But it is not dead When the morning shines , It will lift its head . 
When winter comes , It will die no , no It will only hide From the frost and the snow . 
Sure is the summer , Sure is the sun The night and the winter Are shadows that run . 
The lady never lifted her eyes from her book , or her head from her hand . 
As soon as Diamond had finished , North Wind lifted him and carried him away . 
Didn't the lady hear me ? asked Diamond when they were once more floating down the river . 
Oh , yes , she heard you , answered North Wind . 
Was she frightened then ? Oh , no . 
Why didn't she look to see who it was ? She didn't know you were there . 
How could she hear me then ? She didn't hear you with her ears . 
What did she hear me with ? With her heart . 
Where did she think the words came from ? She thought they came out of the book she was reading . 
She will search all through it to morrow to find them , and won't be able to understand it at all . 
Oh , what fun ! said Diamond . 
What will she do ? I can tell you what she won't do she'll never forget the meaning of them and she'll never be able to remember the words of them . 
If she sees them in Mr. Raymond's book , it will puzzle her , won't it ? Yes , that it will . 
She will never be able to understand it . 
Until she gets to the back of the north wind , suggested Diamond . 
Until she gets to the back of the north wind , assented the lady . 
Oh ! cried Diamond , I know now where we are . 
Oh ! do let me go into the old garden , and into mother's room , and Diamond's stall . 
I wonder if the hole is at the back of my bed still . 
I should like to stay there all the rest of the night . 
It won't take you long to get home from here , will it , North Wind ? No , she answered you shall stay as long as you like . 
Oh , how jolly , cried Diamond , as North Wind sailed over the house with him , and set him down on the lawn at the back . 
Diamond ran about the lawn for a little while in the moonlight . 
He found part of it cut up into flower beds , and the little summer house with the coloured glass and the great elm tree gone . 
He did not like this , and ran into the stable . 
There were no horses there at all . 
The only thing left that he cared about was the hole in the wall where his little bed had stood and that was not enough to make him wish to stop . 
He ran down the stair again , and out upon the lawn . 
There he threw himself down and began to cry . 
It was all so dreary and lost ! I thought I liked the place so much , said Diamond to himself , but I find I don't care about it . 
I suppose it's only the people in it that make you like a place , and when they're gone , it's dead , and you don't care a bit about it . 
North Wind told me I might stop as long as I liked , and I've stopped longer already . 
North Wind ! he cried aloud , turning his face towards the sky . 
The moon was under a cloud , and all was looking dull and dismal . 
A star shot from the sky , and fell in the grass beside him . 
The moment it lighted , there stood North Wind . 
Oh ! cried Diamond , joyfully , were you the shooting star ? Yes , my child . 
Did you hear me call you then ? Yes . 
So high up as that ? Yes I heard you quite well . 
Have you had enough of your old home already ? Yes , more than enough . 
It isn't a home at all now . 
I thought that would be it , said North Wind . 
Everything , dreaming and all , has got a soul in it , or else it's worth nothing , and we don't care a bit about it . 
Some of our thoughts are worth nothing , because they've got no soul in them . 
The brain puts them into the mind , not the mind into the brain . 
But how can you know about that , North Wind ? You haven't got a body . 
If I hadn't you wouldn't know anything about me . 
No creature can know another without the help of a body . 
But I don't care to talk about that . 
It is time for you to go home . 
So saying , North Wind lifted Diamond and bore him away . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND I DID not see Diamond for a week or so after this , and then he told me what I have now told you . 
When a child like that dies , instead of having a silly book written about him , he should be stuffed like one of those awful big headed fishes you see in museums . 
But Diamond never troubled his head about what people thought of him . 
He never set up for knowing better than others . 
The wisest things he said came out when he wanted one to help him with some difficulty he was in . 
He was not even offended with Nanny and Jim for calling him a silly . 
He supposed there was something in it , though he could not quite understand what . 
I suspect however that the other name they gave him , God's Baby , had some share in reconciling him to it . 
Could it be all dreaming , do you think , sir ? he asked anxiously . 
I daren't say , Diamond , I answered . 
But at least there is one thing you may be sure of , that there is a still better love than that of the wonderful being you call North Wind . 
Even if she be a dream , the dream of such a beautiful creature could not come to you by chance . 
Yes , I know , returned Diamond I know . 
Then he was silent , but , I confess , appeared more thoughtful than satisfied . 
The next time I saw him , he looked paler than usual . 
Have you seen your friend again ? I asked him . 
Yes , he answered , solemnly . 
Did she take you out with her ? No. She did not speak to me . 
She looked at me , but never moved or spoke . 
Weren't you afraid ? I asked . 
No. Why should I have been ? he answered . 
I only felt a little cold . 
Did she stay long ? I don't know . 
I think I have been rather cold ever since though , he added with a smile . 
I did not quite like this , but I said nothing . 
Four days after , I called again at the Mound . 
The maid who opened the door looked grave , but I suspected nothing . 
When I reached the drawing room , I saw Mrs. Raymond had been crying . 
Haven't you heard ? she said , seeing my questioning looks . 
I've heard nothing , I answered . 
This morning we found our dear little Diamond lying on the floor of the big attic room , just outside his own door fast asleep , as we thought . 
But when we took him up , we did not think he was asleep . 
We saw that Here the kind hearted lady broke out crying afresh . 
May I go and see him ? I asked . 
You know your way to the top of the tower . 
I walked up the winding stair , and entered his room . 
A lovely figure , as white and almost as clear as alabaster , was lying on the bed . 
I saw at once how it was . 
They thought he was dead . 
I knew that he had gone to the back of the north wind . 
End of the Project Gutenberg Etext of At the Back of the North Wind . 
