An old timer could not have moved with greater confidence . 
No detail seemed to have escaped his cunning calculation . 
Stooping low the youth passed along the verandah to a window of the darkened library a French window which swung open without noise to his light touch . 
Step ping within he crossed the room to a door which opened at the foot of a narrow stairway a convenient little stair way which had often let the Hon . 
Jonas Prim to pass from his library to his second floor bed room unnoticed when Mrs. Prim chanced to be entertaining the femi nine elite of Oakdale across the hall . 
A convenient little stairway for retiring husbands and diffident burglars yes , indeed ! The darkness of the upper hallway offered no obstacle to this familiar housebreaker . 
A fat roll of bills and a handful of jewelry he trans ferred to the pockets of his coat . 
Some papers which his hand brushed within the safe he pushed aside as though preadvised of their inutility to one of his calling . 
Then he closed the safe door , closed the tapestry upon it and turned toward a dainty dressing table . 
His knowledge of the apartment of the daughter of the house of Prim was little short of uncanny . 
Doubtless the fellow was some plumber's apprentice who had made good use of an opportunity to study the lay of the land against a contemplated invasion of these holy pre cincts . 
The noise of the falling candlestick sounded to the taut nerved house breaker as might the explosion of a stick of dynamite during prayer in a meeting house . 
That all Oakdale had heard it seemed quite possible , while that those below stairs were already turning ques tioning ears , and probably inquisitive footsteps , upward was almost a foregone conclusion . 
A profound sigh of relief es caped the beardless lips for that laugh assured the youth that , after all , the noise of the fallen candlestick had not alarmed the household . 
With knees that still trembled a bit he crossed the room and passed out into the hallway , descended the stairs , and stood again in the library . 
Here he paused a moment listening to the voices which came from the dining room . 
I feel quite re lieved about Abigail , she was saying . 
I am positive that a week or two of companionship with him will impress upon her the fine qualities of his nature . 
We are to be congratulated , Jonas , upon settling our daughter so advantageously both in the matter of family and wealth . 
Sam Benham is old enough to be the girl's father , he growled . 
If she wants him , all right but I can't imagine Abbie wanting a bald headed husband with rheumatism . 
I wish you'd let her alone , Pudgy , to find her own mate in her own way someone nearer her own age . 
The child is not old enough to judge wisely for her self , replied Mrs. Prim . 
The burglar did not hear Mr. Prim's reply for he had moved across the library and passed out onto the ve randah . 
At last he found himself upon a country road with the odors of Spring in his nostrils and the world before him . 
The night noises of the open country fell strangely upon his ears accentuating rather than relieving the my riad noted silence of Nature . 
Familiar sounds became unreal and weird , the deep bass of innumerable bull frogs took on an uncanny humanness which sent a half shudder through the slender frame . 
The burglar felt a sad loneliness creeping over him . 
He ceased his whistling and went warily upon the balls of his feet , lest he unnecessarily call attention to his presence . 
If the truth were to be told it would chron icle the fact that a very nervous and frightened burglar sneaked along the quiet and peaceful country road out side of Oakdale . 
In leaving the city the youth had given little thought to the practicalities of the open road . 
A half mile further on a straw stack loomed large within a fenced enclosure . 
The youth wormed his way between the barbed wires determined at last to let nothing prevent him from making a cozy bed in the deep straw beside the stack . 
With courage radiating from every pore he strode toward the stack . 
His walk was almost a swagger , for thus does youth dissemble the bravery it yearns for but does not possess . 
He al most whistled again but not quite , since it seemed an unnecessary provocation to disaster to call particular attention to himself at this time . 
The burglar tore the inside of one trousers' leg and the back of his coat in his haste to pass through the barbed wire fence onto the open road . 
There he paused to mop the per spiration from his forehead , though the night was now far from warm . 
For another mile the now tired and discouraged house breaker plodded , heavy footed , the unending road . 
What they saw was a small fire built upon the earth floor in the center of the building and around the warming blaze the figures of six men . 
Some reclined at length upon old straw others squatted , Turk fash ion . 
All were smoking either disreputable pipes or rolled cigarets . 
Blear eyed and foxy eyed , bearded and stub bled cheeked , young and old , were the men the youth looked upon . 
All were more or less dishevelled and filthy but they were human . 
They were not dogs , or bulls , or croaking frogs . 
The boy's heart went out to them . 
For several seconds he stood there looking at the men around the fire . 
None of them had noticed him . 
Tramps ! thought the youth . 
He wondered that they had not seen him , and then , clear ing his throat , he said Hello , tramps ! Six heads snapped up or around . 
Six pairs of eyes , blear or foxy , were riveted upon the boyish figure of the housebreaker . 
Wotinel ! ejaculated a frowzy gentle man in a frock coat and golf cap . 
Wheredju blow from ? inquired another . 
'Hello , tramps' ! mimicked a third . 
The youth came slowly toward the fire . 
I saw your fire , he said , and I thought I'd stop . 
I'm a tramp , too , you know . 
Oh , sighed the elderly person in the frock coat . 
He's a tramp , he is . 
An' does he think gents like us has any time for tramps ? An' where might he be trampin' , sonny , without his maw ? The youth flushed . 
Oh say ! he cried you needn't kid me just because I'm new at it . 
You all had to start sometime . 
Beat it , kid ! he com manded . 
We ain't runnin' no day nursery . 
These you see here is all the real thing . 
Maybe we asks fer a hand out now and then but that ain't our reg'lar lay . 
You ain't swift enough to travel with this bunch , kid , so you'd better duck . 
The boy had stood with his straight , black eyebrows puckered into a studious frown , drinking in every word . 
I guess I made a mistake , he said , apologetically . 
You ain't tramps at all . 
You're thieves and murderers and things like that . 
His eyes opened a bit wider and his voice sank to a whisper as the words passed his lips . 
The eyes of the six registered astonishment , mixed with craft and greed . 
I just robbed a house in Oakdale , explained the boy . 
I usually rob one every night . 
Nor was the fistful of currency in the other hand to be sneezed at . 
There were greenbacks , it is true but there were also yellowbacks with the reddish gold of large denominations . 
The Sky Pilot sighed a sigh that was more than half gasp . 
Can't yuh take a kid ? he inquired . 
I knew youse all along . 
Yuh can't fool an old bird like The Sky Pilot eh , boys ? and he turned to his comrades for confirma tion . 
He's The Oskaloosa Kid , exclaimed one of the com pany . 
Pull up and set down , invited another . 
The boy stuffed his loot back into his pockets and came closer to the fire . 
Its warmth felt most comfort able , for the Spring night was growing chill . 
Shake hands with Dopey Charlie , said The Sky Pi lot , whose age and corpulency appeared to stamp him with the hall mark of authority . 
The youth did as he was bid , smiling into the sullen , chalk white face and taking the clammy hand extended toward him . 
A battered wreck half rose and extended a pudgy hand . 
Red whiskers , matted in little tangled wisps which sug gested the dried ingredients of an infinite procession of semi liquid refreshments , rioted promiscuously over a scarlet countenance . 
Pleased to meetcha , sprayed Soup Face . 
It was a strained smile which twisted the rather too perfect mouth of The Oskaloosa Kid , an appellation which we must , perforce , accept since the youth did not deny it . 
Columbus Blackie , The General , and Dirty Eddie were formally presented . 
The Oskaloosa Kid , self con fessed 'tramp' and burglar , flushed at the lurid obscenity of Dirty Eddie's remarks . 
Sit down , bo , invited Soup Face . 
I guess you're a regular all right . 
Here , have a snifter ? and he pulled a flask from his side pocket , holding it toward The Os kaloosa Kid . 
Thank you , but er I'm on the wagon , you know , declined the youth . 
Have a smoke ? suggested Columbus Blackie . 
The change in the attitude of the men toward him pleased The Oskaloosa Kid immensely . 
Dopey Charlie and The General , alone of all the company , waxed not enthusiastic over the advent of The Oskaloosa Kid and his priceless loot . 
These two sat scowling and whispering in the back ground . 
Dat's a wrong guy , muttered the former to the latter . 
He's a stool pigeon or one of dese amatoor mugs . 
It's the pullin' of that punk graft that got my goat , replied The General . 
I don't see wot The Sky Pi lot's cozyin' up to him fer . 
You don't ? scoffed Dopey Charlie . 
Didn't you lamp de oyster harness ? To say nothin' of de mitful of rocks and kale . 
That 'ud be all right , too , replied the other , if we could put the guy to sleep but The Sky Pilot won't never stand for croakin' nobody . 
He's too scared of his neck . 
We'll look like a bunch o' wise ones , won't we ? lettin' a stranger sit in now after last night . 
Hell ! he suddenly exploded . 
Get a plum ber first if you want to kiss me you leak . 
He thinks you need a shower bath , said Dirty Ed die , laughing . 
The trouble with Soup Face , explained The Sky Pi lot , is that he's got a idea he's a human atomizer an' that the rest of us has colds . 
Well , I don't want no atomizer loaded with rot gut and garlic shot in my mug , growled Blackie . 
What Soup Face needs is to be learned ettyket , an' if he comes that on me again I'm goin' to push his mush through the back of his bean . 
An ugly light came into the blear eyes of Soup Face . 
Once again he leaned close to Columbus Blackie . 
Not a cent less 'n fifty thou , you tinhorn ! he bellowed , belligerent and sprayful . 
Blackie leaped to his feet , with an oath a frightful , hideous oath and as he rose he swung a heavy fist to Soup Face's purple nose . 
With a sound that was more bestial than human he ran toward Blackie but there was another there who had anticipated his in tentions . 
A quick wrench brought a howl of pain to the would be assassin , and the knife fell to the floor . 
The rough stuff don't go with me , see ? He hurled Soup Face to the floor and resumed his seat by the fire . 
Dirty Eddie rose , yawned and stretched . 
Me fer the hay , he announced , and lay down again with his feet toward the fire . 
Some of the others followed his example . 
You'll find some hay in the loft there , said The Sky Pilot to The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Bring it down an' make your bed here by me , there's plenty room . 
A half hour later all were stretched out upon the hard dirt floor upon improvised beds of rotted hay but not all slept . 
The Oskaloosa Kid , though tired , found him self wider awake than he ever before had been . 
Appar ently sleep could never again come to those heavy eyes . 
There passed before his mental vision a panorama of the events of the night . 
He smiled as he inaudibly voiced the name they had given him , the right to which he had not seen fit to deny . 
The boy smiled again as be felt the 'swag' hard and lumpy in his pockets . 
It had given him prestige here that he could not have gained by any other means but he mistook the nature of the interest which his display of stolen wealth had aroused . 
It is true that he puzzled them . 
Even The Sky Pilot , the most astute and intelligent of them all , was at a loss to fathom The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Innocence and unsophisti cation flaunted their banners in almost every act and speech of The Oskaloosa Kid . 
But the concrete evidence of the valuable loot comported not with The Sky Pilot's idea of a Sunday school boy's lark . 
The young fellow was , unquestionably , a thief but that he had ever before consorted with thieves his speech and manners belied . 
He's got me , murmured The Sky Pilot but he's got the stuff on him , too and all I want is to get it off of him without a painful operation . 
Tomorrow'll do , and he shifted his position and fell asleep . 
Dopey Charlie and The General did not , however , follow the example of their chief . 
They remained very wide awake , a little apart from the others , where their low whispers could not be overheard . 
You better do it , urged The General , in a soft , in sinuating voice . 
You're pretty slick with the toad stab ber , an' any way one more or less won't count . 
We can go to Sout' America on dat stuff an' live like gents , muttered Dopey Charlie . 
I'm goin' to cut out de Hop an' buy a farm an' a ottymobeel and Come out of it , admonished The General . 
If we're lucky we'll get as far as Cincinnati , get a stew on and get pinched . 
Den one of us'll hang an' de other get stir fer life . 
The General was a weasel faced person of almost any age between thirty five and sixty . 
Sometimes he could have passed for a hundred and ten . 
You're a cheerful guy , commented Dopey Charlie but you may be right at dat . 
Dey can't hang a guy any higher fer two 'an they can fer one an' dat's no pipe so wots de use . 
From a pile of mouldy hay across the barn the youth , heavy eyed but sleepless , watched the two through half closed lids . 
A qualm of disgust sent a sudden shudder through his slight frame . 
For the first time he almost re gretted having embarked upon a life of crime . 
And so he lay watching them not that he was afraid , he kept reassuring himself , but through curiosity . 
Why should he be afraid ? Was it not a well known truth that there was honor among thieves ? But the longer he watched the heavier grew his lids . 
Several times they closed to be dragged open again only by painful effort . 
Finally came a time that they remained closed and the young chest rose and fell in the regular breathing of slumber . 
The two ragged , rat hearted creatures rose silently and picked their way , half crouched , among the sleepers sprawled between them and The Oskaloosa Kid . 
In the hand of Dopey Charlie gleamed a bit of shiny steel and in his heart were fear and greed . 
The fear was engend ered by the belief that the youth might be an amateur detective . 
Beside the boy kneeled the man with the knife . 
He did not raise his hand and strike a sudden , haphazard blow . 
Instead he placed the point carefully , though lightly , above the victim's heart , and then , suddenly , bore his weight upon the blade . 
Abigail Prim always had been a thorn in the flesh of her stepmother a well meaning , unimaginative , ambitious , and rather common woman . 
She had tried to 'do right by her' but she had never given the child what a child most needs and most craves love and understanding . 
Jonas Prim loved his daughter . 
Being misunderstood and , to all outward appearances of sentiment and affection , unloved had not in any way embittered Abigail's remarkably joyous temperament . 
But recently the first real sorrow had been thrust into her young life since the half forgotten mother had been taken from her . 
The second Mrs. Prim had decided that it was her 'duty' to see that Abigail , having finished school and college , was properly married . 
As a match maker the second Mrs. Prim was as a Texas steer in a ten cent store . 
He was a prosaic old bachelor who had amassed a fortune by the simple means of inheriting three farms upon which an indus trial city subsequently had been built . 
A French window and its screen opening upon the verandah from the library she found open . 
The house will be full of mosquitoes ! she ejaculated men tally as she closed them both with a bang and made them fast . 
I should just like to know who left them open . 
Upon my word , I don't know what would become of this place if it wasn't for me . 
Of all the shiftlessness ! and she turned and flounced upstairs . 
The first thing amiss that her eagle eye noted was the candlestick lying on the floor beside the dressing table . 
A moment's investigation revealed the startling fact that the safe was unlocked and practically empty . 
It was then that Mrs. Jonas Prim screamed . 
Her scream brought Jonas and several servants upon the scene . 
Mrs. Prim scowled suspiciously upon the servants . 
Who else , indeed , could have possessed the intimate knowledge which the thief had displayed . 
Mrs. Prim saw it all . 
The open library window had been but a clever blind to hide the fact that the thief had worked from the inside and was now doubtless in the house at that very moment . 
Shucks , Pudgy ! exclaimed Mr. Prim . 
You don't mean he hesitated . 
Why , Pudgy , you don't mean you suspect one of the servants ? Who else could have known ? asked Mrs. Prim . 
The servants present looked uncomfortable and cast sheep ish eyes of suspicion at one another . 
It's all tommy rot ! ejaculated Mr. Prim but I'll call the police , because I got to report the theft . 
It's some slick outsider , that's who it is , and he started down stairs toward the telephone . 
Before he reached it the bell rang , and when he had hung up the receiver after the conversation the theft seemed a trivial matter . 
In fact he had almost forgotten it , for the message had been from the local telegraph office relaying a wire they had just received from Mr. Samuel Benham . 
Impossible ! ejaculated Mrs. Prim . 
I certainly saw her aboard the train myself . 
Impossible ! Jonas Prim was a man of action . 
The following morning all Oakdale was thrilled as its fascinated eves devoured the front page of Oakdale's or dinarily dull daily . 
Never had Oakdale experienced a plethora of home grown thrills but it came as near to it that morning , doubtless , as it ever had or ever will . 
There was , first , the mysterious disappearance of Abi gail Prim , the only daughter of Oakdale's wealthiest cit izen there was the equally mysterious robbery of the Prim home . 
Either one of these would have been suffi cient to have set Oakdale's multitudinous tongues wag ging for days but they were not all . 
That robbery had been the motive was amply indicated by the topsy turvy condition of the contents of the three rooms which Baggs called home . 
As the victim still was unconscious no details of the crime were obtainable . 
Yet even this atrocious deed had been capped by one yet more hideous . 
Reginald Paynter had for years been looked upon half askance and yet with a certain secret pride by Oak dale . 
He was her sole bon vivant in the true sense of the word , whatever that may be . 
He was always spoken of in the columns of The Oakdale Tribune as 'that well known man about town , or 'one of Oakdale's most prom inent clubmen . 
Reginald Paynter had been , if not the only , at all events the best dressed man in town . 
His clothes were made in New York . 
This in itself had been sufficient to have set him apart from all the other males of Oakdale . 
He was widely travelled , had an indepen dent fortune , and was far from unhandsome . 
For years he had been the hope and despair of every Oakdale mother with marriageable daughters . 
The Oakdale fathers , however , had not been so keen about Reginald . 
Men usually know more about the morals of men than do women . 
There were those who , if pressed , would have conceded that Reginald had no morals . 
But what place has an obituary in a truthful tale of adventure and mystery ! Reginald Paynter was dead . 
His body had been found beside the road just outside the city limits at mid night by a party of automobilists re turning from a fishing trip . 
The skull was crushed back of the left ear . 
The position of the body as well as the marks in the road beside it indicated that the man had been hurled from a rapidly moving automobile . 
The fact that his pockets had been rifled led to the assumption that he had been killed and robbed before being dumped upon the road . 
Now there were those in Oakdale , and they were many , who endeavored to connect in some way these several events of horror , mystery , and crime . 
Possibly it was only Abigail's added misfortune to have disappeared upon the eve of the night of Reginald's murder . 
The tongues ceased wagging in order that they might turn hand springs . 
Find Abigail Prim , whispered some , and the mystery will be solved . 
There were others charitable enough to assume that Abigail had been kidnapped by the same men who had murdered Paynter and wrought the other lesser deeds of crime in peaceful Oakdale . 
Even fear of old Jonas Prim and his millions had not been enough to entirely squelch the newspaper instinct of the Trib une's editor . 
Jonas Prim was too busy and too worried to pay any attention to the Tribune or its editor . 
He already had the best operative that the best detective agency in the nearest metropolis could furnish . 
The man had come to Oakdale , learned all that was to be learned there , and forthwith departed . 
This , then , will be about all concerning Oakdale for the present . 
We must leave her to bury her own dead . 
The commotion of the attack and escape brought the other sleepers to heavy eyed wakefulness . 
They saw Dopey Charlie advancing upon the Kid , a knife in his hand . 
Behind him slunk The General , urging the other on . 
The youth was backing toward the doorway . 
The tableau persisted but for an instant . 
In the same instant The Oskaloosa Kid wheeled and vanished into the night . 
It had all happened so quickly that the other members of the gang , awakened from deep slumber , had only time to stumble to their feet before it was over . 
The Sky Pilot , ignoring the screaming Charlie , thought only of the loot which had vanished with the Oskaloosa Kid . 
Come on ! We gotta get him , he cried , as he ran from the barn after the fugitive . 
The others , all but Dopey Charlie , followed in the wake of their leader . 
The wounded man , his audience departed , ceased screaming and , sitting up , fell to examining himself . 
To his surprise he discovered that he was not dead . 
A fur ther and more minute examination disclosed the addi tional fact that he was not even badly wounded . 
The bullet of The Kid had merely creased the flesh over the ribs beneath his right arm . 
With a grunt that might have been either disgust or relief he stumbled to his feet and joined in the pursuit . 
Down the road toward the south ran The Oskaloosa Kid with all the fleetness of youth spurred on by terror . 
In five minutes he had so far outdistanced his pursuers that The Sky Pilot leaped to the conclusion that the quarry had left the road to hide in an adjoining field . 
They no longer ran but puffed arduously along the smooth road , searching with troubled and angry eyes to right and left and ahead of them as they went . 
For an hour he continued walking rapidly along the winding country road . 
He was very tired but he dared not pause to rest . 
Always behind him he expected the sudden onslaught of the bearded , blear eyed followers of The Sky Pilot . 
Terror goaded him to supreme physical effort . 
Recollection of the screaming man sinking to the earthen floor of the hay barn haunted him . 
He was a murderer ! He had slain a fellow man . 
And Nature drew upon her sinister forces to add to the fear which the youth already felt . 
The wind soughed with gloomy and in creasing menace , a sudden light flared across the south ern sky followed by the reverberation of distant thunder . 
The fugitive paused , undecided . 
Yet still he hesitated , for the right hand road was black and forbid ding suggesting the entrance to a pit of unknown hor rors . 
The youth turned to flee but the thought of the men tracking him from that direction brought him to a sud den halt . 
There was only the road to the right , then , after all . 
Cautiously he moved toward it , and at the same time the words of the voice came clearly through the night . 
as , swinging heel and toe , 'We tramped the road to Anywhere , the magic road to Anywhere , 'The tragic road to Anywhere , such dear , dim years ago . 
The voice seemed reassuring its quality and the an nunciation of the words bespoke for its owner consider able claim to refinement . 
The youth saw a slight though well built man in ragged clothes and disreputable soft hat . 
Once more darkness enveloped them . 
Lovely evening for a stroll , remarked the man . 
James is very trying sometimes . 
Now he never showed up this evening and I had to start out alone , and he knows perfectly well that I detest driving after dark in the rain . 
The youth found himself smiling . 
His fear had sud denly vanished . 
No one could harbor suspicion of the owner of that cheerful voice . 
I didn't know which road to take , he ventured , in explanation of his presence at the cross road . 
Oh , exclaimed the man , are there two roads here ? I was looking for this fork and came near passing it in the dark . 
It was a year ago since I came this way but I recall a deserted house about a mile up the dirt road . 
It will shelter us from the inclemencies of the weather . 
Oh ! cried the youth . 
Now I know where I am . 
In the dark and the storm and after all that has happened to me tonight nothing seemed natural . 
It was just as though I was in some strange land but I know now . 
Yes , there is a deserted house a little less than a mile from here but you wouldn't want to stop there at night . 
They tell some frightful stories about it . 
It hasn't been occupied for over twenty years not since the Squibbs were found murdered there the father , mother three sons , and a daughter . 
They never discovered the mur derer , and the house has stood vacant and the farm un worked almost continuously since . 
A couple of men tried working it but they didn't stay long . 
A night or so was enough for them and their families . 
Oh , I wouldn't even pass that place on a night like this . 
I slept there alone one rainy night about a year ago , he said . 
I didn't see or hear any thing unusual . 
Such stories are ridiculous and even if there was a little truth in them , noises can't harm you as much as sleeping out in the storm . 
I'm going to en croach once more upon the ghostly hospitality of the Squibbs . 
The youth shuddered and drew back . 
From far be hind came faintly the shout of a man . 
Yes , I'll go , exclaimed the boy . 
Let's hurry , and he started off at a half run toward the dirt road . 
The man followed more slowly . 
The darkness hid the quizzical expression of his eyes . 
He , too , had heard the faint shout far to the rear . 
When he had finally come abreast of the youth after the latter , his first panic of flight subsided , had reduced his speed , he spoke to him in his kindly tones . 
What was it that happened to you to night ? he asked . 
Is someone following you ? You needn't be afraid of me . 
I'll help you if you've been on the square . 
If you haven't , you still needn't fear me , for I won't peach on you . 
What is it ? Tell me . 
The youth was on the point of unburdening his soul to this stranger with the kindly voice and the honest eyes but a sudden fear stayed his tongue . 
Briefly he told of the attack upon him , of his shooting of Dopey Charlie , of the flight and pursuit . 
There was almost a sob in his voice , so real was his terror . 
The man threw an arm across his companion's shoul der . 
Don't worry , kid , he said . 
You're not a murderer even if you did kill Dopey Charlie , which I hope you did . 
You're a benefactor of the human race . 
I have known Charles for years . 
He should have been killed long since . 
Furthermore , as you shot in self defence no jury would convict you . 
I fear , however , that you didn't kill him . 
You say you could hear his screams as long as you were within earshot of the barn dead men don't scream , you know . 
How did you know my name ? asked the youth . 
I don't , replied the man . 
But you called me 'Kid' and that's my name I'm The Oskaloosa Kid . 
The man was glad that the darkness hid his smile of amusement . 
He knew The Oskaloosa Kid well , and he knew him as an ex pug with a pock marked face , a bul let head , and a tin ear . 
The flash of lightning had re vealed , upon the contrary , a slender boy with smooth skin , an oval face , and large dark eyes . 
Ah , he said , so you are The Oskaloosa Kid ! I am delighted , sir , to make your acquaintance . 
Permit me to introduce myself my name is Bridge . 
If James were here I should ask him to mix one of his famous cock tails that we might drink to our mutual happiness and the longevity of our friendship . 
I am glad to know you , Mr. Bridge , said the youth . 
Oh , I can't tell you how glad I am to know you . 
Talking together the two moved on along the dark road . 
The storm had settled now into a steady rain with infrequent flashes of lightning and peals of thun der . 
And it's a bad bunch , too , he continued . 
I've known them all for years . 
The Sky Pilot has the reputa tion of never countenancing a murder but that is be cause be is a sly one . 
His gang kills but when they kill under The Sky Pilot they do it so cleverly that no trace of the crime remains . 
Their victim disappears that is all . 
You won't let them get me ? he pleaded , pressing closer to the man . 
The only response was a pressure of the arm about the shoulders of The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Over a low hill they followed the muddy road and down into a dark and gloomy ravine . 
Here we are ! cried Bridge , and spooks or no spooks we'll find a dry spot in that old ruin . 
There was a stove there last year and it's doubtless there yet . 
A clump of trees sur rounded the house , their shade adding to the almost ut ter blackness of the night . 
The purr of a rapidly moving motor rose above the rain , the light rose , fell , swerved to the right and to the left . 
Someone must be in a hurry , commented Bridge . 
I suppose it is James , anxious to find you and ex plain his absence , suggested The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Bridge started on a run toward the gateway , followed by the frightened Kid . 
In the ditch beside the road they found in a dishevelled heap the body of a young woman . 
The man lifted the still form in his arms . 
The youth wondered at the great strength of the slight figure . 
Let me help you carry her , he volunteered but Bridge needed no assistance . 
Run ahead and open the door for me , he said , as he bore his burden toward the house . 
Behind him came Bridge as the youth entered the dark interior . 
A half dozen steps he took when his foot struck against a soft and yielding mass . 
Stumbling , he tried to regain his equilibrium only to drop full upon the thing be neath him . 
One open palm , extended to ease his fall , fell upon the upturned features of a cold and clammy face . 
With a shriek of horror The Kid leaped to his feet and shrank , trembling , back . 
What is it ? What's the matter ? cried Bridge , with whom The Kid had collided in his precipitate retreat . 
O o o ! groaned The Kid , shuddering . 
It's dead ! It's dead ! What's dead ? demanded Bridge . 
There's a dead man on the floor , right ahead of us , moaned The Kid . 
You'll find a flash lamp in the right hand pocket of my coat , directed Bridge . 
Take it and make a light . 
His eyes were wide and , even in death , terror filled , his fea tures were distorted with fear and horror . 
His fingers , clenched in the rigidity of death , clutched wisps of dark brown hair . 
To their right , in the faint light of the flash lamp , a narrow stairway was revealed leading to the second story . 
Straight ahead was a door opening upon the black ness of a rear apartment . 
Beside the foot of the stair way was another door leading to the cellar steps . 
Bridge nodded toward the rear room . 
The stove is in there , he said . 
We'd better go on and make a fire . 
Draw your pistol whoever did this has probably beat it but it's just as well to he on the safe side . 
I'm afraid , said The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Let's leave this frightful place . 
It's just as I told you it was just as I always heard . 
We can't leave this woman , my boy , replied Bridge . 
We can't leave her , and we can't take her out into the storm in her condition . 
There's nothing to fear from a dead man , and He never finished the sentence . 
From the depths of the cellar came the sound of a clanking chain . 
Some thing scratched heavily upon the wooden steps . 
What ever it was it was evidently ascending , while behind it clanked the heavy links of a dragged chain . 
The Oskaloosa Kid cast a wide eyed glance of terror at Bridge . 
His lips moved in an attempt to speak but fear rendered him inarticulate . 
Slowly , ponderously the THING ascended the dark stairs from the gloom ridden cellar of the deserted ruin . 
Even Bridge paled a trifle . 
The man upon the floor appeared to have met an un natural death the frightful expression frozen upon the dead face might even indicate something verging upon the supernatural . 
The sound of the THING climbing out of the cellar was indeed uncanny so uncanny that Bridge discovered himself looking about for some means of escape . 
His eyes fell upon the stairway leading to the second floor . 
Up the stairs ! You go first I'll follow . 
The Kid needed no second invitation . 
With a bound he was half way up the rickety staircase but a glance ahead at the darkness above gave him pause while he waited for Bridge to catch up with him . 
Flash the lamp down there , directed Bridge . 
Let's have a look at it , whatever it is . 
With trembling hands The Oskaloosa Kid directed the lens over the edge of the swaying and rotting bannister , his finger slipped from the lighting button plunging them all into darkness . 
In stantly the sound of the dragging chain ceased but the silence was even more horrible than the noise which had preceded it . 
For a long minute the two at the head of the stairs stood in tense silence listening for a repetition of the gruesome sounds from below . 
The youth was frankly terrified he made no effort to conceal the fact but pressed close to his companion , again clutching his arm tightly . 
Bridge could feel the trembling of the slight fig ure , the spasmodic gripping of the slender fingers and hear the quick , short , irregular breathing . 
He bent toward the youth . 
There are matches in my coat pocket , he whispered , the same pocket in which you found the flash lamp . 
Strike one and we'll look for a room here where we can lay the girl . 
The boy fumbled gropingly in search of the matches . 
Beneath them the stairs creaked now and the chain thumped slowly from one to another as it was dragged upward toward them . 
Straight down the hall and into the room at the end . 
With an exclamation of chagrin the man dropped the girl and swung quickly toward the door . 
Halfway down the hall he could hear the chain rattling over loose plank ing , the THING , whatever it might be , was close upon them . 
Bridge slammed to the door and with a shoulder against it drew a match from his pocket and lighted it . 
An in stant later it was shot just as the sound of the dragging chain ceased outside . 
Doubtless it was the call of youth and weakness which find , always , an answering assur ance in the strength of a strong man . 
As Bridge groped toward the spot where the boy had fallen his eyes , now become accustomed to the dark ness of the room , saw that the youth was sitting up . 
Feeling better ? Where is it ? Oh , God ! Where is it ? cried the boy . 
It will come in here and kill us as it killed that that down stairs . 
It can't get in , Bridge assured him . 
I've locked the door and pushed the bed in front of it . 
Gad ! I feel like an old maid looking under the bed for burglars . 
From the hall came a sudden clanking of the chain accompanied by a loud pounding upon the bare floor . 
With a scream the youth leaped to his feet and almost threw himself upon Bridge . 
His arms were about the man's neck , his face buried in his shoulder . 
Oh , don't don't let it get me ! he cried . 
Brace up , son , Bridge admonished him . 
Didn't I tell you that it can't get in ? How do you know it can't get in ? whimpered the youth . 
It's the thing that murdered the man down stairs it's the thing that murdered the Squibbs right here in this room . 
It got in to them what is to prevent its get ting in to us . 
What are doors to such a THING ? Come ! come ! now , Bridge tried to soothe him . 
You have a case of nerves . 
Lie down here on this bed and try to sleep . 
Nothing shall harm you , and when you wake up it will be morning and you'll laugh at your fears . 
Lie on THAT bed ! The voice was almost a shriek . 
That is the bed the Squibbs were murdered in the old man and his wife . 
No one would have it , and so it has remained here all these years . 
I would rather die than touch the thing . 
Their blood is still upon it . 
I wish , said Bridge a trifle sternly , that you would try to control yourself a bit . 
Hysteria won't help us any . 
Here we are , and we've to make the best of it . 
Besides we must look after this young woman she may be dy ing , and we haven't done a thing to help her . 
The boy , evidently shamed , released his hold upon Bridge and moved away . 
I am sorry , he said . 
I'll try to do better but , Oh ! I was so frightened . 
You can not imagine how frightened I was . 
The darkness hid the scarlet flush which mantled The Kid's face . 
There was a moment's silence as Bridge crossed to where the young woman still lay upon the floor where he had deposited her . 
I'm sorry , he said , that I made a fool of myself . 
You have been so brave , and I have not helped at all . 
I shall do better now . 
Good , said Bridge , and stooped to raise the young woman in his arms and deposit her upon the bed . 
Then he struck another match and leaned close to ex amine her . 
Bridge felt the youth close beside him as he bent above the girl upon the bed . 
Is she dead ? the lad whispered . 
No , replied Bridge , and I doubt if she's badly hurt . 
I can't find a scratch on her , be said at last . 
She's suffering from shock alone , as far as I can judge . 
Say , she's pretty , isn't she ? The youth drew himself rather stiffly erect . 
Her fea tures are rather coarse , I think , he replied . 
There was a peculiar quality to the tone which caused Bridge to turn a quick look at the boy's face , just as the match flick ered and went out . 
The darkness hid the expression upon Bridge's face , but his conviction that the girl was pretty was unaltered . 
The light of the match had re vealed an oval face surrounded by dark , dishevelled tresses , red , full lips , and large , dark eyes . 
Further discussion of the young woman was discour aged by a repetition of the clanking of the chain with out . 
Now it was receding along the hallway toward the stairs and presently , to the infinite relief of The Os kaloosa Kid , the two heard it descending to the lower floor . 
What was it , do you think ? asked the boy , his voice still trembling upon the verge of hysteria . 
I don't know , replied Bridge . 
As they listened for a repetition of the sound there came another that of the creaking of the old bed slats as the girl moved upon the mildewed mattress . 
Dimly , through the darkness , Bridge saw that the victim of the recent murderous assault was attempt ing to sit up . 
He moved closer and leaned above her . 
I wouldn't exert myself , he said . 
You've just suf fered an accident , and it's better that you remain quiet . 
Who are you ? asked the girl , a note of suppressed terror in her voice . 
You are not ? I am no one you know , replied Bridge . 
The girl was silent for a moment . 
Where is 'here' ? she asked presently . 
They drove so fast and it was so dark that I had no idea where we were , though I know that we left the turnpike . 
We are at the old Squibbs place , replied the man . 
He could see that the girl was running one hand gin gerly over her head and face , so that her next question did not surprise him . 
Am I badly wounded ? she asked . 
Do you think that I am going to die ? The tremor in her voice was pathetic it was the voice of a frightened and wondering child . 
Bridge heard the boy behind him move impulsively for ward and saw him kneel on the bed beside the girl . 
You are not badly hurt , volunteered The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Bridge couldn't find a mark on you the bullet must have missed you . 
He was holding me over the edge of the car when he fired . 
The girl's voice reflected the physical shudder which ran through her frame at the recollection . 
Then he threw me out almost simultaneously . 
I suppose he thought that he could not miss at such close range . 
For a time she was silent again , sitting stiffly erect . 
Bridge could feel rather than see wide , tense eyes star ing out through the darkness upon scenes , horrible per haps , that were invisible to him and the Kid . 
Suddenly the girl turned and threw herself face down ward upon the bed . 
O , God ! she moaned . 
Father ! Father ! It will kill you no one will believe me they will think that I am bad . 
Again she sat up , and when she spoke there was no tremor in her voice . 
I may die , she said . 
It was the little one who murdered him the one they called 'Jimmie' and 'The Oskaloosa Kid . 
The big one drove the car his name was 'Terry . 
Bridge heard the boy at his side gulp . 
Oh , I can't face it ! I want to die . 
I will die ! I come of a good family . 
My father is a prominent man . 
I can't go back and stand the dis grace and see him suffer , as he will suffer , for I was all he had his only child . 
If you are telling us the truth , he said , you have only a silly escapade with strange men upon your conscience . 
You must not talk of dying now your duty is to your father . 
The only way in which you can atone for your error is to go back and face the conse quences with him do not throw it all upon him that would be cowardly . 
The girl did not reply but that the man's words had impressed her seemed evident . 
Pipe the stiff , exclaimed a voice which The Oska loosa Kid recognized immediately as that of Soup Face . 
The Kid musta croaked him , said another . 
A laugh followed this evidently witty sally . 
The guy probably lamped the swag an' died of heart failure , suggested another . 
The men were still laughing when the sound of a clanking chain echoed dismally from the cellar . 
In stantly silence fell upon the newcomers upon the first floor , followed by a Wotinel's that ? Two of the men had approached the staircase and started to ascend it . 
Slowly the uncanny clanking drew closer to the first floor . 
The girl on the bed turned toward Bridge . 
What is it ? she gasped . 
We don't know , replied the man . 
It followed us up here , or rather it chased us up and then went down again just before you regained consciousness . 
I imagine we shall hear some interesting developments from be low . 
It's The Sky Pilot and his gang , whispered The Os kaloosa Kid . 
It's The Oskaloosa Kid , came a voice from below . 
But wot was that light upstairs then ? queried an other . 
An' wot croaked this guy here ? asked a third . 
It wasn't nothin' nice did you get the expression on his mug an' the red foam on his lips ? I tell youse there's something in this house beside human bein's . 
I know the joint its hanted they's spooks in it . 
They had remained too long and now , their retreat cut off , they scrambled , cursing and screaming , to the second floor . 
Who are you and what do you want ? cried Bridge . 
Let us in ! Let us in ! screamed two voices . 
Fer God's sake let us in . 
Can't you hear IT ? It'll be comin' up here in a minute . 
The sound of the dragging chain could be heard at in tervals upon the floor below . 
The mills of the Gods grind slowly , quoted Bridge . 
Oh , don't ! pleaded The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Let us in , screamed the men without . 
She was , herself , trembling with terror . 
No funny business , now , if I let you in , commanded Bridge . 
On the square , came the quick and earnest reply . 
The THING had reached the head of the stairs when Bridge dragged the bed aside and drew the bolt . 
In stantly two figures hurled themselves into the room but turned immediately to help Bridge resecure the door way . 
Just as it had done before , when Bridge and The Oskaloosa Kid had taken refuge there with the girl , the THING moved down the hallway to the closed door . 
The dragging chain marked each foot of its advance . 
If it made other sounds they were drowned by the clanking of the links over the time roughened flooring . 
Bridge seized the boy's arm and wrenched the weapon from him . 
Be careful ! he cried . 
You didn't miss the girl much that time she's on the bed right in front of the door . 
The Oskaloosa Kid pressed closer to the man as though he sought protection from the unknown men ace without . 
The girl sprang from the bed and crossed to the opposite side of the room . 
A flash of lightning illumi nated the chamber for an instant and the roof of the ve randah without . 
The girl noted the latter and the open window . 
Suppose it went out of another window upon this porch . 
It could get us so easily that way ! Shut up , you fool ! whispered one of the two new comers . 
The girl subsided into si lence . 
There was no sound from the hallway . 
Sighs of relief escaped more than a single pair of lips . 
IT didn't hear me , whispered the girl . 
We're a nice lot of babies seeing things at night , he scoffed . 
If you're so nervy why don't you go down an' see wot it is ? asked one of the late arrivals . 
I believe I shall , replied Bridge and pulled the bed away from the door . 
Instantly a chorus of protests arose , the girl and The Oskaloosa Kid being most insistent . 
For two hours the five sat about the room waiting for daylight . 
There could be no sleep for any of them . 
Occa sionally they spoke , usually advancing and refuting sug gestions as to the identity of the nocturnal prowler be low stairs . 
The THING seemed to have retreated again to the cellar , leaving the upper floor to the five strangely assorted prisoners and the first floor to the dead man . 
During the brief intervals of conversation the girl re peated snatches of her story and once she mentioned The Oskaloosa Kid as the murderer of the unnamed vic tim . 
The two men who had come last pricked up their ears at this and Bridge felt the boy's hand just touch his arm as though in mute appeal for belief and protection . 
We seen The Oskaloosa Kid this evenin' volun teered one of the newcomers . 
You did ? exclaimed the girl . 
Where ? He'd just pulled off a job in Oakdale an' had his pockets bulgin' wid sparklers an' kale . 
We was follerin' him an' when we seen your light up here we t'ought it was him . 
The Oskaloosa Kid shrank closer to Bridge . 
At last he recognized the voice of the speaker . 
The Oskaloosa Kid gasped once more for the thousandth time that night . 
It had been Dopey Charlie who lighted the cigaret and in the brief illumination his friend The General had grasped the opportunity to scan the features of the other members of the party . 
Schooled by long years of repression he betrayed none of the surprise or elation he felt when he recognized the features of The Oska loosa Kid . 
If The General was elated The Oskaloosa Kid was at once relieved and terrified . 
Relieved by ocular proof that he was not a murderer and terrified by the immedi ate presence of the two who had sought his life . 
His cigaret drawing well Dopey Charlie resumed This Oskaloosa Kid's a bad actor , he volunteered . 
The little shrimp tried to croak me but he only creased my ribs . 
I'd like to lay my mits on him . 
I'll bet there won't be no more Oskaloosa Kid when I get done wit him . 
The boy drew Bridge's ear down toward his own lips . 
Let's go , he said . 
I don't hear anything more down stairs , or maybe we could get out on this roof and slide down the porch pillars . 
Bridge laid a strong , warm hand on the small , cold one of his new friend . 
Don't worry , Kid , he said . 
The two other men turned quickly in the direction of the speaker . 
Is de Kid here ? asked Dopey Charlie . 
He is , my degenerate friend , replied Bridge and furthermore he's going to stay here and be perfectly safe . 
Do you grasp me ? Who are you ? asked The General . 
Yes ? Well , I am the side partner . 
Before the yeggman could make reply the girl spoke up quickly . 
This man cannot be The Oskaloosa Kid , she said . 
It was The Oskaloosa Kid who threw me from the car . 
How do you know he ain't ? queried The General . 
Youse was knocked out when these guys picks you up . 
It's so dark in here you couldn't reco'nize no one . 
If one of them is The Oskaloosa Kid then there must be two men called that . 
Strike a match and you will see that you are mistaken . 
The General fumbled in an inside pocket for a pack age of matches carefully wrapped against possible dam age by rain . 
Presently he struck one and held the light in the direction of The Kid's face while he and the girl and Dopey Charlie leaned forward to scrutinize the youth's features . 
It's him all right , said Dopey Charlie . 
You bet it is , seconded The General . 
Why he's only a boy , ejaculated the girl . 
The one who threw me from the machine was a man . 
Well , this one said he was The Oskaloosa Kid , per sisted The General . 
An' he shot me up , growled Dopey Charlie . 
It's too bad he didn't kill you , remarked Bridge pleasantly . 
You're a thief and probably a murderer into the bargain you tried to kill this boy just before he shot you . 
Well wots he ? demanded Dopey Charlie . 
He's a thief he said he was look in his pockets they're crammed wid swag , an' he's a gun man , too , or he wouldn't be packin' a gat . 
I guess he ain't got nothin' on me . 
The darkness hid the scarlet flush which mounted to the boy's cheeks so hot that he thought it must surely glow redly through the night . 
He waited in dumb misery for Bridge to demand the proof of his guilt . 
And while we're here together in this room you two must sit over near the window , he concluded . 
You've tried to kill the boy once to night but you're not going to try it again I'm taking care of him now . 
You gotta crust , bo , observed Dopey Charlie , bellig erently . 
I guess me an' The General'll sit where we damn please , an' youse can take it from me on the side that we're goin' to have ours out of The Kid's haul . 
If you tink you're goin' to cop the whole cheese you got another tink comin' . 
Cheese it , The General advised his companion and the two removed themselves to the opposite side of the apartment , where they whispered , grumblingly , to one another . 
The girl , the boy , and Bridge waited as patiently as they could for the coming of the dawn , talking of the events of the night and planning against the future . 
The youth begged that he might accompany Bridge upon the road , pleading that his mother was dead and that he could not return home after his escapade . 
And Bridge could not find it in his heart to refuse him , for the man realized that the boyish waif possessed a sub tile attraction , as forceful as it was inexplicable . 
In the youth Bridge found an intellectual equal with the added charm of a physical dependent . 
It was as the questioning fall of a child's feet upon the uncarpeted boards in the room beneath them . 
Up , up , up it came toward the first floor . 
The patter ing of the feet ceased . 
The clanking rose until the five heard the scraping of the chain against the door frame at the head of the cellar stairs . 
They heard it pass across the floor toward the center of the room and then , loud and piercing , there rang out against the silence of the awful night a woman's shriek . 
Instantly Bridge leaped to his feet . 
Without a word he tore the bed from before the door . 
What are you doing ? cried the girl in a muffled scream . 
I am going down to that woman , said Bridge , and he drew the bolt , rusty and complaining , from its cor roded seat . 
No ! screamed the girl , and seconding her the youth sprang to his feet and threw his arms about Bridge . 
Please ! Please ! he cried . 
Oh , please don't leave me . 
The girl also ran to the man's side and clutched him by the sleeve . 
Don't go ! she begged . 
Oh , for God's sake , don't leave us here alone ! You heard a woman scream didn't you ? asked Bridge . 
Come ! Come ! expostulated Bridge . 
Wait ! begged the girl . 
Wait until you know that it is a human voice that screams through this horrible place . 
The youth only strained his hold tighter about the man's legs . 
Bridge felt a soft cheek pressed to his knee and , for some unaccountable reason , the appeal was stronger than the pleading of the girl . 
Slowly Bridge re alized that he could not leave this defenseless youth alone even though a dozen women might be menaced by the uncanny death below . 
With a firm hand he shot the bolt . 
Leave go of me , he said I shan't leave you unless she calls for help in articulate words . 
The boy rose and , trembling , pressed close to the man who , involuntarily , threw a protecting arm about the slim figure . 
The girl , too , drew nearer , while the two yeggmen rose and stood in rigid silence by the window . 
From below came an occasional rattle of the chain , fol lowed after a few minutes by the now familiar clanking as the iron links scraped across the flooring . 
Mingled with the sound of the chain there rose to them what might have been the slow and ponderous footsteps of a heavy man , dragging painfully across the floor . 
For a few moments they heard it , and then all was silent . 
For a dozen tense minutes the five listened but there was no repetition of any sound from below . 
Suddenly the girl breathed a deep sigh , and the spell of terror was broken . 
The other vagabond fumbled with his hypodermic needle and the narcotic which would quickly give his fluttering nerves the quiet they craved . 
You've caught cold , said Bridge , his tone almost self reproachful , as though he were entirely responsible for the boy's condition . 
Once again rose a chorus of pleas and objections . 
Oh , wouldn't he wait until daylight ? See ! the dawn was even then commencing to break . 
They didn't dare go down and they begged him not to leave them up there alone . 
At this Dopey Charlie spoke up . 
The 'hop' had com menced to assert its dominion over his shattered nervous system instilling within him a new courage and a feel ing of utter well being . 
Go on down , said he to Bridge . 
The General an' I'll look after the kids won't we bo ? Sure , assented The General we'll take care of 'em . 
I'll tell you what we'll do , said Bridge we'll leave the kids up here and we three'll go down . 
They won't go , and I wouldn't leave them up here with you two morons on a bet . 
Both the boy and the girl insisted upon accom panying him . 
For the first time each had an opportunity to study the features of his companions of the night . 
Bridge found in the girl and the youth two dark eyed , good looking young people . 
In the girl's face was , per haps , just a trace of weakness but it was not the face of one who consorts habitually with criminals . 
The boy , too , looked anything other than the role he had been playing . 
Aloud , he said I'll go first , and if the spook ma terializes you two can beat it back into the room . 
Down the hall they went , Bridge leading with the boy and girl close at his heels while the two yeggs brought up the rear . 
Their footsteps echoed through the deserted house but brought forth no answering clank ing from the cellar . 
The stairs creaked beneath the unaccustomed weight of so many bodies as they de scended toward the lower floor . 
Near the bottom Bridge came to a questioning halt . 
The front room lay entirely within his range of vision , and as his eyes swept it he gave voice to a short exclamation of surprise . 
The youth and the girl , shivering with cold and ner vous excitement , craned their necks above the man's shoulder . 
O h h ! gasped The Oskaloosa Kid . 
He's gone , and , sure enough , the dead man had vanished . 
All were empty then he turned and re entering the front room bent his steps toward the cellar stairs . 
At the foot of the stair way leading to the second floor lay the flash lamp that the boy had dropped the night before . 
Bridge stooped , picked it up and examined it . 
It was uninjured and with it in his hand he continued toward the cellar door . 
Where are you going ? asked The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I'm going to solve the mystery of that infernal clank ing , he replied . 
You are not going down into that dark cellar ! It was an appeal , a question , and a command and it quivered gaspingly upon the verge of hysteria . 
Bridge turned and looked into the youth's face . 
What was there about this slender stripling which so disarmed criticism ? Yes , he replied , I am going down . 
If there is to be any hunting I prefer to be hunter rather than hunted . 
He wheeled and placed a foot upon the cellar stairs . 
What are you going to do ? asked the man . 
I am going with you , said the boy . 
You think I am a coward because I am afraid but there is a vast differ ence between cowardice and fear . 
He felt a strange elation that this youth should choose voluntarily to share his danger with him , for in his roaming life Bridge had known few associates for whom he cared . 
The beams of the little electric lamp , moving from side to side , revealed a small cellar littered with refuse and festooned with cob webs . 
At one side tottered the remains of a series of wooden racks upon which pans of milk had doubtless stood to cool in a long gone , happier day . 
Some of the uprights had rotted away so that a part of the frail structure had collapsed to the earthen floor . 
The boy breathed a heartfelt sigh of relief and Bridge laughed , not without a note of relief either . 
You see there is nothing , he said nothing except some firewood which we can use to advantage . 
The girl was awaiting them at the head of the stairs while the two tramps whispered together at the opposite side of the room . 
With the physical relaxation which the heat in duced came a like relaxation of their tongues and tem porary forgetfulness of their antagonisms and individual apprehensions . 
Bridge was the only member of the group whose conscience was entirely free . 
He was not 'wanted' anywhere , he bad no unexpiated crimes to harry his mind , and with the responsibilities of the night removed he fell naturally into his old , carefree manner . 
He hazarded foolish explanations of the uncanny noises of the night and suggested various theories to account for the presence and the mysterious disappearance of the dead man . 
I wouldn't spend anudder night in this dump , he concluded , for both them pockets full of swag The Oskaloosa Kid's packin' around . 
Immediately all eyes turned upon the flushing youth . 
He's a bad one , interjected Dopey Charlie , a glint of cunning in his ordinarily glassy eyes . 
He flashes a couple o' mitsful of sparklers , chesty like , and allows as how he's a regular burglar . 
Then he pulls a gun on me , as wasn't doin' nothin' to him , and 'most croaks me . 
It's even money that if anyone's been croaked in Oakdale last night they won't have to look far for the guy that done it . 
Least wise they won't have to look far if he doesn't come across , and Dopey Charlie looked mean ingly and steadily at the side pockets of The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I think , said Bridge , after a moment of general si lence , that you two crooks had better beat it . 
Do you get me ? and he looked from Dopey Charlie to The Gen eral and back again . 
We don't go , said Dopey Charlie , belligerently , un til we gets half the Kid's swag . 
You go now , said Bridge , without anybody's swag , and he drew the boy's automatic from his side pocket . 
You go now and you go quick beat it ! The two rose and shuffled toward the door . 
We'll get you , you colledge Lizzy , threatened Dopey Charlie , an' we'll get that phoney punk , too . 
'And speed the parting guest , quoted Bridge , firing a shot that splintered the floor at the crook's feet . 
At the suggestion the kid started for the door . 
Oh , no , he insisted it isn't worth while . 
I am almost dry now , and as soon as we get out on the road I'll be all right . 
I I I like wet clothes , he ended , lamely . 
Bridge looked at him questioningly but did not urge the matter . 
Very well , he said you probably know what you like but as for me , I'm going to pull off every rag and get good and dry . 
The girl had already quitted the room and now The Kid turned and followed her . 
Outside the house he came upon the girl and the youth standing in the sunshine of a bright , new day . 
The two looked up , smiling . 
You're a funny kind of tramp , to be quoting poetry , said The Oskaloosa Kid , even if it is Knibbs' . 
Almost as funny , replied Bridge , as a burglar who recognizes Knibbs when he hears him . 
He wrote for us of the open road , he replied quickly . 
I don't know of any other class of men who should enjoy him more . 
Or any other class that is less familiar with him , re torted Bridge but the burning question just now is pots , not poetry flesh pots . 
I could eat a cow . 
The girl pointed to an adjacent field . 
Help yourself , she said . 
That happens to be a bull , said Bridge . 
I was particular to mention cow , which , in this instance , is proverbially less dangerous than the male , and much better eating . 
'We kept a rambling all the time . 
I rustled grub , he rustled rhyme 'Blind baggage , hoof it , ride or climb we always put it through . 
Who's going to rustle the grub ? The girl looked at The Oskaloosa Kid . 
You don't seem like a tramp at all , to talk to , she said but I suppose you are used to asking for food . 
I couldn't do it I should die if I had to . 
The Oskaloosa Kid looked uncomfortable . 
So should he commenced , and then suddenly subsided . 
Of course I'd just as soon , he said . 
You two stay here I'll be back in a minute . 
They watched him as be walked down to the road and until he disappeared over the crest of the hill a short distance from the Squibbs' house . 
I like him , said the girl , turning toward Bridge . 
So do I , replied the man . 
There must be some good in him , she continued , even if he is such a desperate character but I know he's not The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Do you really suppose he robbed a house last night and then tried to kill that Dopey person ? Bridge shook his head . 
I don't know , he said but I am inclined to believe that he is more imaginative than criminal . 
He certainly shot up the Dopey person but I doubt if he ever robbed a house . 
While they waited , The Oskaloosa Kid trudged along the muddy road to the nearest farm house . 
which lay a full mile beyond the Squibbs' home . 
As he approached the door a lank , sallow man confronted him with a sus picious eye . 
Good morning , greeted The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I want to get something to eat , explained the youth . 
If the boy had hurled a dynamite bomb at him the result could have been no more surprising . 
The lank , sallow man went up into the air , figuratively . 
He went up a mile or more , and on the way down he reached his hand inside the kitchen door and brought it forth en veloping the barrel of a shot gun . 
Durn ye ! he cried . 
I'll lam ye ! Get offen here . 
The Oskaloosa Kid quailed but he held his ground . 
I wasn't here last night , he cried , and I'm not begging for food I want to buy some . 
I've got plenty of money , in proof of which assertion he dug into a side pocket and brought forth a large roll of bills . 
The man lowered his gun . 
Wy didn't ye say so in the first place then ? he growled . 
What do ye want to buy , eh ? How much money ye got ? Looks suspicious . 
You're in the wrong pasture , bub , he remarked feelingly . 
What yer lookin' fer is Sears , Roebuck Company . 
The Oskaloosa Kid flushed up to the tips of his ears . 
But can't you sell me something ? he begged . 
A frowsy , rat faced woman and a gawky youth of four teen stuck their heads out the doorway at either side of the man . 
I ain't got nothin' to sell , snapped the woman but as she spoke her eyes fell upon the fat bank roll in the youth's hand . 
'Bout what did ye figger on wantin' ? Anything you can spare , said the youth . 
There are three of us and we're awful hungry . 
Where yew stoppin' ? asked the woman . 
We're at the old Squibbs' place , replied The Kid . 
We got caught by the storm last night and had to put up there . 
The Squibbs' place ! ejaculated the woman . 
Yew didn't stop there over night ? Yes we did , replied the youth . 
See anything funny ? asked Mrs. Case . 
We didn't SEE anything , replied The Oskaloosa Kid but we heard things . 
At least we didn't see what we heard but we saw a dead man on the floor when we went in and this morning he was gone . 
A dead man ! ejaculated Jeb Case . 
Yew seen him ? The Kid nodded . 
I never tuk much stock in them stories , said Jeb , with a shake of his head but ef you SEEN it ! Gosh ! Thet beats me . 
Come on M'randy , les see what we got to spare , and he turned into the kitchen with his wife . 
The lanky boy stepped , out and planting himself in front of The Oskaloosa Kid proceeded to stare at him . 
Yew seen it ? be asked in awestruck tone . 
Yes , said the Kid in a low voice , and bending close toward the other it had bloody froth on its lips ! The Case boy shrank back . 
An' what did yew hear ? he asked , a glutton for thrills . 
Something that dragged a chain behind it and came up out of the cellar and tried to get in our room on the second floor , explained the youth . 
It almost got us , too , he added , and it did it all night . 
Whew , whistled the Case boy . 
Gosh ! Then he scratched his head and looked admiringly at the youth . 
What mought yer name be ? he asked . 
I'm The Oskaloosa Kid , replied the youth , unable to resist the admiration of the other's fond gaze . 
Look here ! and he fished a handful of jewelry from one of his side pockets this is some of the swag I stole last night when I robbed a house . 
, opened his mouth and eyes so wide that there was little left of his face . 
But that's nothing , bragged The Kid . 
I shot a man , too . 
Last night ? whispered the boy . 
Yep , replied the bad man , tersely . 
Say , said The Kid , after a moment's strained silence . 
Don't tell anyone , will you ? If you'll promise I'll give you a dollar , and he hunted through his roll of bills for one of that lowly denomination . 
All right , agreed the Case boy . 
I won't say a word where's the dollar ? The youth drew a bill from his roll and handed it to the other . 
At this moment Case pere and mere emerged from the kitchen loaded with provender . 
Here's enough an' more'n enough , I reckon , said Jeb Case . 
We got eggs , butter , bread , bacon , milk , an' a mite o' garden sass . 
But we ain't goin' to charge you nothin' fer the gar den sass , interjected Mrs. Case . 
That's awfully nice of you , replied The Kid . 
The Oskaloosa Kid peeled a five dollar bill from his roll and proffered it to the farmer . 
I'm ever so much obliged , he said , and you needn't mind about any change . 
I thank you so much . 
With which he took the several packages and pails and turned toward the road . 
Yew gotta return them pails ! shouted Mrs. Case af ter him . 
Oh , of course , replied The Kid . 
Gosh ! exclaimed Mr. Case , feelingly . 
I wisht I'd asked six bits more I mought jest as well o' got it as not . 
Gosh , eh ? Gosh ! murmured Willie Case , fervently . 
Back down the sticky road plodded The Oskaloosa Kid , his arms heavy and his heart light , for , was he not 'bringing home the bacon , literally as well as figuratively . 
Some artist ! cried the man . 
How in the world did you do it ? asked the girl , rapturously . 
The youth he sent to the nearby brook for water after selecting the least dirty of the several empty tin cans lying about the floor of the summer kitchen . 
He warned against the use of the water from the old well and while the boy was away cut a generous portion of the bacon into long , thin strips . 
Instantly the room was filled with the delicious odor of frying bacon . 
M m m m ! gloated The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I wish I had bo asked for more . 
My ! but I never smelled any thing so good as that in all my life . 
Are you going to boil only three eggs ? I could eat a dozen . 
The can'll only hold three at a time , explained Bridge . 
We'll have some more boiling while we are eating these . 
But we have no cups ! exclaimed The Oskaloosa Kid , in sudden despair . 
Knock an end off your egg and the shell will answer in place of a cup . 
Got a knife ? The Kid didn't . 
You must have done most of your burgling near home , he commented . 
I'm not a burglar ! cried the youth indignantly . 
Bridge made no reply , but his eyes wandered to the right hand side pocket of the boy's coat . 
Instantly the latter glanced guiltily downward to flush redly at the sight of several inches of pearl necklace protruding ac cusingly therefrom . 
The girl , a silent witness of the oc currence , was brought suddenly and painfully to a realization of her present position and recollection of the happenings of the preceding night . 
For the time she had forgotten that she was alone in the company of a tramp and a burglar how much worse either might be she could only guess . 
The breakfast , commenced so auspiciously , continued in gloomy silence . 
At least the girl and The Oskaloosa Kid were silent and gloom steeped . 
Bridge was thought ful but far from morose . 
I am afraid , he said , that I shall have to replace James . 
His defection is unforgivable , and he has mis placed the finger bowls . 
The youth and the girl forced wan smiles but neither spoke . 
Bridge drew a pouch of tobacco and some papers from an inside pocket . 
'I had the makings and I smoked 'And wondered over different things , 'Thinkin' as how this old world joked 'In callin' only some men kings 'While I sat there a blowin' rings . 
He paused to kindle a sliver of wood at the stove . 
In these parlous times , he spoke as though to himself , one must economize . 
Even these papers seem thinner than of yore and they will only sell one book to a customer at that . 
'Havin' no pet , particular care 'Havin' no trouble , or no pard Just me , filled up my callin' card . 
Say , do you know I've learned to love this Knibbs per son . 
His attic covers all God's coun try that is out of doors and he knows the road from La Bajada hill to Barstow a darned sight better than he knows Broadway . 
There was no answering sympathy awakened in either of his listeners they remained mute . 
He picked up his knife , wiped off the blade , closed it and slipped it into a trousers' pocket . 
Then he walked toward the door . 
At the threshold he paused and turned . 
'Good bye girls ! I'm through , he quoted and passed out into the sunlight . 
Instantly the two within were on their feet and follow ing him . 
Where are you going ? cried The Oskaloosa Kid . 
You're not going to leave us , are you ? Oh , please don't ! pleaded the girl . 
I don't know , said Bridge , solemnly , whether I'm safe in remaining in your society or not . 
This Oskaloosa Kid is a bad proposition and as for you , young lady , I rather imagine that the town constable is looking for you right now . 
Please don't , she begged . 
I haven't done anything wicked , honestly ! But I want to get away so that they can't question me . 
I was in the car when they killed him but I had nothing to do with it . 
It is just because of my father that I don't want them to find me . 
It would break his heart . 
As the three stood back of the Squibbs' summer kitchen Fate , in the guise of a rural free delivery carrier and a Ford , passed by the front gate . 
Mornin' Jeb , he called , as he swerved his light car from the road and drew up in front of the Case gate . 
Mornin' , Jim ! returned Mr. Case . 
Nice rain we had last night . 
What's the news ? Plenty ! Plenty ! exclaimed the carrier . 
Lived here nigh onto forty year , man an' boy , an' never seen such work before in all my life . 
How's that ? questioned the farmer , scenting some thing interesting . 
Ol' man Baggs's murdered last night , announced the carrier , watching eagerly for the effect of his announce ment . 
Gosh ! gasped Willie Case . 
Was he shot ? It was almost a scream . 
I dunno , replied Jim . 
He's up to the horspital now , an' the doc says he haint one chance in a thousand . 
Gosh ! exclaimed Mr. Case . 
But thet ain't all , continued Jim . 
Reggie Paynter was murdered last night , too right on the pike south of town . 
They threw his corpse outen a ottymobile . 
By gol ! cried Jeb Case I hearn them devils go by last night 'bout midnight er after . 
They must o' ben goin' sixty mile an hour . 
Er say , he stopped to scratch his head . 
They must a ben a score on 'em round here yesterday and las' night an' agin this mornin' . 
I never seed so dum many bums in my life . 
An' thet ain't all , went on the carrier , ignoring the others comments . 
Abbie Prim's disappeared and Jonas Prim's house was robbed jest about the same time Ol' man Baggs 'uz murdered , er most murdered chances is he's dead by this time any how . 
Doc said he hadn't no chance . 
Gosh ! It was a pater filius duet . 
But thet ain't all , gloated Jim . 
By gum , I'll bet they get 'em in no time . 
I know but then he paused . 
If he told all he knew he saw plainly that either the carrier or his father would profit by it and collect the reward . 
Fifty dollars ! ! Willie gasped . 
Well , said Jim , I gotta be on my way . 
Here's the Tribune there ain't nothin' more fer ye . 
So long ! Gid dap ! and he was gone . 
I don' see why he don't carry a whip , mused Jeb Case . 
A gidappin' to that there tin lizzie , he muttered disgustedly , jes' like it was as good as a hoss . 
But I mind the time , the fust day he got the dinged thing , he gets out an' tries to lead it by Lem Smith's threshin' ma chine . 
If Jeb had but known it his young hopeless was already in the loft of the hay barn deep in a small , red covered book entitled HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE . 
Bridge , who had had no intention of deserting his help less companions , appeared at last to yield reluctantly to their pleas . 
For the girl he felt a deep pity . 
In the past he had had knowledge of more than one other small town girl led into wrong doing through the deadly monotony and flagrant hypocrisy of her environment . 
As the three held a council of war at the rear of the deserted house they were startled by the loud squeaking of brake bands on the road in front . 
Bridge ran quickly into the kitchen and through to the front room where he saw three men alighting from a large touring car which had drawn up before the sagging gate . 
We've got to beat it ! he whispered they've brought Burton himself down here . 
Who's Burton ? demanded the youth . 
He's the best operative west of New York City , replied Bridge , as he moved rapidly toward an out house directly in rear of the main building . 
Once behind the small , dilapidated structure which had once probably housed farm implements , Bridge paused and looked about . 
They'll search here , he prophesied , and then Those woods look good to me . 
The Squibbs' woods , growing rank in the damp ravine at the bottom of the little valley , ran to within a hun dred feet of the out building . 
Dense undergrowth choked the ground to a height of eight or ten feet around the boles of the close set trees . 
We'd better make a break for it , advised Bridge , and a moment later the three moved cautiously toward the wood , keeping the out house between themselves and the farm house . 
Almost in front of them as they neared the wood they saw a well defined path leading into the thicket . 
Bridge was in the lead , moving steadily forward that they might put as much distance as possible between themselves and the detective should the latter chance to explore the wood . 
They had advanced a few hundred yards when the path crossed through a small clearing the center of which was destitute of fallen leaves . 
Here the path was beaten into soft mud and as Bridge came to it he stopped and bent his gaze incredulously upon the ground . 
The girl and the youth , halting upon either side , followed the direction of his eyes with theirs . 
The girl gave a little , involuntary gasp , and the boy grasped Bridge's hand as though fearful of losing him . 
The man turned a quizzical glance at each of them and smiled , though a bit ruefully . 
It beats me , he said . 
What can it be ? whispered the boy . 
Oh , let's go back , begged the girl . 
And go along to father with Burton ? asked Bridge . 
The girl trembled and shook her head . 
I would rather die , she said , firmly . 
Come , let's go on . 
'N'ere it sez 'If your man gets into a carriage don't run up an' jump on the back of it but simply hire an other carriage and follow . 
How in hek kin I foller this book ? wailed Willie . 
They ain't no street cars 'round here . 
Instantly Willie dropped his irksome labor and slouched lazily toward the machine , the occupants of which were descending and heading for the Case front door . 
Jeb Case met them before they reached the porch and Willie lolled against a pillar listening eagerly to all that was said . 
The most imposing figure among the strangers was the same whom Bridge had seen approaching the Squibbs' house a short time before . 
It was he who acted as spokesman for the newcomers . 
As you may know , he said , after introducing him self , a number of crimes were committed in and around Oakdale last night . 
We are searching for clews to the perpetrators , some of whom must still be in the neigh borhood . 
Have you seen any strange or suspicious char acters around lately ? I should say we hed , exclaimed Jeb emphatically . 
I seen the wo'st lookin' gang o' bums come outen my hay barn this mornin' thet I ever seed in my life . 
They must o' ben upward of a dozen on 'em . 
They waz makin' fer the house when I steps in an' grabs my ol' shot gun . 
I hollered at 'em not to come a step nigher 'n' I guess they seed it wa'n't safe monkeyin' with me so they skidaddled . 
Which way did they go ? asked Burton . 
Off down the road yonder but I don't know which way they turned at the crossin's , er ef they kept straight on toward Millsville . 
Willie , on the contrary , realized the importance of their morning customer , yet just how he was to cash in on his knowledge was not yet entirely clear . 
He thought of going at once to the Squibbs' house and placing the desperate criminals under arrest but as fear throttled the idea in its infancy he cast about for some other plan . 
Even as he stood there thinking the great detective and his companions were entering the automobile to drive away . 
In a moment they would be gone . 
Were they not , after all , the very men , the only men , in fact , to assist him in his dilemma ? At least he could test them out . 
If necessary he would divide the reward with them ! Running toward the road Willie shouted to the departing sleuth . 
The car , moving slowly forward in low , came again to rest . 
Willie leaped to the running board . 
If I tell you where the murderer is , he whispered hoarsely , do I git the . 
? Detective Burton was too old a hand to ignore even the most seemingly impossible of aids . 
He laid a kindly hand on Willie's shoulder . 
You bet you do , he replied heartily , and what's more I'll add another fifty to it . 
What do you know ? I seen the murderer this mornin' , Willie was gasp ing with excitement and elation . 
Already the one hun dred dollars was as good as his . 
One hundred dollars ! Willie Goshed ! mentally even as he told his tale . 
He come to our house an' bought some vittles an' stuff . 
Willie pulled at the detective's sleeve . 
Don't tell Paw about the reward , he begged he'll keep it all hisself . 
Sure , replied Jeb but he didn't 'mount to nothin' . 
One o' these here summer camper pests . 
He paid fer all he got . 
Had a roll o' bills 's big as ye fist . 
Little feller he were , not much older 'n' Willie . 
Did you know that he told your son that he was The Oskaloosa Kid and that he had robbed a house and killed a man last night ? Huh ? exclaimed Jeb . 
Then he turned and cast one awful look at Willie a look large with menace . 
Honest , Paw , pleaded the boy . 
I was a scairt to tell you , 'cause he said he'd kill me ef I told . 
Yew know what you'll get ef you're lyin' to me , he threatened . 
I believe he's telling the truth , said detective Bur ton . 
Where is the man now ? he asked Willie . 
Down to the Squibbs' place , and Willie jerked a dirty thumb toward the east . 
Not now , said Burton we just came from there but there has been someone there this morning , for there is still a fire in the kitchen range . 
Does anyone live there ? I should say not , said Willie emphatically the place is haunted . 
Thet's right , interjected Jeb . 
But I don't take no stock in what Willie's ben tellin' ye , she continued , 'n' ef his paw don't lick him I will . 
I told him tell I'm good an' tired o' talkin' thet one liar 'round a place wuz all I could stand , and she cast a meaning glance at her husband . 
Honest , Maw , I ain't a lyin' , insisted Willie . 
Wot do you suppose he give me this fer , if it wasn't to keep me from talkin' , and the boy drew a crumpled one dol lar bill from his pocket . 
It was worth the dollar to escape a thrashing . 
He give you thet ? asked his mother . 
'N' thet ain't all he had neither , he said . 
Detective Burton raised his eyebrows . 
Miss Prim's pearl necklace , he commented to the man at his side . 
Don't punish your son , Mrs. Case , he said to the woman . 
I believe he has discovered a great deal that will help us in locating the man we want . 
Only thus could he account for their turning off the main pike . 
The latter was now well guarded all the way to Payson while the Millsville road was still open . 
No sooner had he departed than Willie Case disap peared , nor did he answer at noon to the repeated ringing of the big , farm dinner bell . 
When they came abreast of the spot he ordered the driver to stop but though he scanned the open field carefully he saw no sign of living thing . 
There are two men hiding behind those bushes , he said to his companions in a low whisper . 
One of you walk ahead about fifty yards and the other go back the same distance and then climb the fence . 
When I see you getting over I'll climb it here . 
They can't get away from us . 
To the driver he said You have a gun . 
If they make a break go after 'em . 
You can shoot if they don't stop when you tell 'em to . 
He had scarcely alighted upon the other side when his eyes fell upon the disreputable figures of two tramps stretched out upon their backs and snoring audibly . 
You two sure can go to sleep in a hurry , he said . 
One of the men opened his eyes and sat up . 
When he saw who it was that stood over him he grinned sheep ishly . 
Can't a guy lie down fer a minute in de bushes wid out bein' pinched ? he asked . 
The other man now sat up and viewed the newcomer , while from either side Bur ton's companions closed in on the three . 
Wot's de noise ? inquired the second tramp , looking from one to another of the intruders . 
Of course not , Charlie , Burton assured him gaily . 
Put your hands up ! We . 
Put 'em up ! snapped Burton , and when the four grimy fists had been elevated he signalled to his com panions to search the two men . 
Nothing more formidable than knives , dope , and a needle were found upon them . 
Say , drawled Dopey Charlie . 
We knows wot we knows but hones' to gawd we didn't have nothin' to do wid it . 
We knows the guy that pulled it off we spent las' night wid him an' his pal an' a skoit . 
He creased me , here , and Charlie unbuttoned his clothing and ex posed to view the bloody scratch of The Oskaloosa Kid's bullet . 
On de level , Burton , we wern't in on it . 
Dis guy was at dat Squibbs' place wen we pulls in dere outen de rain . 
He has a pocket full o' kale an' sparklers an' tings , and he goes fer to shoot me up wen I tries to get away . 
Who was he ? asked Burton . 
He called hisself de Oskaloosa Kid , replied Charlie . 
A guy called Bridge was wid him . 
You know him ? I've heard of him but he's straight , replied Burton . 
Mebby he ain't a bad 'un though ! Where are they now ? asked Burton . 
We got away from 'em at the Squibbs' place this mornin' , said Charlie . 
Well , said Burton , you boes come along with me . 
If you ain't done nothing the worst you'll get'll be three squares and a place to sleep for a few days . 
I want you where I can lay my hands on you when I need a couple of witnesses , and he herded them over the fence and into the machine . 
As he himself was about to step in he felt suddenly of his breast pocket . 
What's the matter ? asked one of his companions . 
I've lost my note book , replied Burton it must have dropped out of my pocket when I jumped the fence . 
Just wait a minute while I go look for it , and be returned to the fence , vaulted it and disappeared be hind the bushes . 
It was fully five minutes before he returned but when he did there was a look of satisfaction on his face . 
Find it ? asked his principal lieutenant . 
I wouldn't have lost it for anything . 
Bridge and his companions had made their way along the wooded path for perhaps a quarter of a mile when the man halted and drew back behind the foliage of a flowering bush . 
With raised finger he motioned the oth ers to silence and then pointed through the branches ahead . 
The thing wrapped in an old quilt lay silently waiting for the making of its last bed . 
And as they watched , their over wrought nerves sud denly shuddered to the grewsome clanking of a chain from the dark interior of the hovel . 
The youth , holding tight to Bridge's sleeve , strove to pull him away . 
Let's go back , he whispered in a voice that trembled so that he could scarce control it . 
Yes , please , urged the girl . 
Here is another path leading toward the north . 
We must be close to a road . 
Let's get away from here . 
The digger paused and raised her head , listening , as though she had caught the faint , whispered note of hu man voices . 
She was a black haired girl of nineteen or twenty , dressed in a motley of flowered calico and silk , with strings of gold and silver coins looped around her olive neck . 
Her bare arms were encircled by bracelets some cheap and gaudy , others well wrought from gold and silver . 
From her ears depended ornaments fash ioned from gold coins . 
Her whole appearance was bar baric , her occupation cast a sinister haze about her and yet her eyes seemed fashioned for laughter and her lips for kissing . 
The watchers remained motionless as the girl peered first in one direction and then in another , seeking an ex planation of the sounds which had disturbed her . 
At last the grave was dug . 
The girl climbed out and stood looking down upon the quilt wrapped thing at her feet . 
For a moment she stood there as silent and motionless as the dead . 
Only the twittering of birds dis turbed the quiet of the wood . 
Involuntarily the man's hand closed tightly upon the youth's . 
And as they stood thus the silence was shattered by a loud and human sneeze from the thicket not fifty feet from where they stood . 
Instantly the girl in the clearing was electrified into action . 
Like a tigress charging those who stalked her she leaped swiftly across the clearing toward the point from which the disturbance had come . 
There was an answering commotion in the underbrush as the girl crashed through , a slender knife gleaming in her hand . 
Beside the dead man the girl halted and then turned on her captive . 
In her right hand she still held the menacing blade . 
What you do there watching me for ? she demanded . 
Tell me the truth , or I kill you , and she half raised the knife that he might profit in his decision by this most potent of arguments . 
I didn't come fer to watch you , he whimpered . 
I'm lookin' for somebody else . 
I'm goin' to be a dee tectiff , an' I'm shadderin' a murderer and he gasped and stammered But not you . 
I'm lookin' for another murderer . 
For the first time the watchers saw a faint smile touch the girl's lips . 
What other murderer ? she asked . 
Who has been murdered ? Two an' mebby three in Oakdale last night , said Willie Case more glibly now that a chance for dissemi nating gossip momentarily outweighed his own fears . 
Reginald Paynter was murdered an' ol' man Baggs an' Abigail Prim's missin' . 
Like es not she's been murdered too , though they do say as she had a hand in it , bein' seen with Paynter an' The Oskaloosie Kid jest afore the murder . 
As the boy's tale reached the ears of the three hidden in the underbrush Bridge glanced quickly at his com panions . 
He saw the boy's horror stricken expression fol low the announcement of the name of the murdered Paynter , and he saw the girl flush crimson . 
Without urging , Willie Case proceeded with his story . 
Bridge looked down at the youth beside him but the other's face was averted and his eyes upon the ground . 
As he reached the end of his narrative he leaned close to the girl , whispering in her ear the while his furtive gaze wandered toward the spot where the three lay concealed . 
Bridge shrugged his shoulders as the palpable infer ence of that cunning glance was borne in upon him . 
The eyes of the girl widened in surprise and fear as she learned that three watchers lay concealed at the verge of the clearing . 
She bent a long , searching look in the direction indicated by the boy and then turned her eyes quickly toward the hut as though to summon aid . 
At the same moment Bridge stepped from hiding into the clearing . 
His pleasant 'Good morning ! brought the girl around , facing him . 
What you want ? she snapped . 
I want you and this young man , said Bridge , his voice now suddenly stern . 
We have been watching you and followed you from the Squibbs house . 
We found the dead man there last night Bridge nodded toward the quilt enveloped thing upon the ground and we sus pect that you had an accomplice . 
Here he frowned meaningly upon Willie Case . 
The youth trembled and stammered . 
I never seen her afore , he cried . 
I don' know nothin' about it . 
But the girl did not quail . 
You get out , she commanded . 
He know he tell me . 
You get out or I call Beppo . 
Come , come , now , my dear , urged Bridge , be calm . 
Let us get at the root of this thing . 
Your young friend accuses me of being a murderer , does he ? And he tells about murders in Oakdale that I have not even heard of . 
It seems to me that he must have some guilty knowl edge himself of these affairs . 
Look at him and look at me . 
Notice his ears , his chin , his forehead , or rather the places where his chin and forehead should be , and then look once more at me . 
Which of us might be a murderer and which a detective ? I ask you . 
I find you here in the depths of the wood digging a lonely grave for a human corpse . 
I ask myself was this man murdered ? but I do not say that he was murdered . 
I wait for an explanation from you , for you do not look a murderer , though I cannot say as much for your desperate companion . 
The girl looked straight into Bridge's eyes for a full minute before she replied as though endeavoring to read his inmost soul . 
I do not know this boy , she said . 
He was spying on me , and when I found him he told me that you and your companions were thieves and murderers and that you were hiding there watching me . 
You tell me the truth , all the truth , and I will tell you the truth . 
I have nothing to fear . 
If you do not tell me the truth I shall know it . 
Willie Case's eyes went wide as they fell upon the Oskaloosa Kid . 
And then , he said in conclusion , when the searchers arrived we followed the foot prints of yourself and the bear until we came upon you digging this grave . 
Bridge's companions and Willie Case looked their sur prise at his mention of a bear but the gypsy girl only nodded her head as she had occasionally during his nar rative . 
I believe you , said the girl . 
It is not easy to de ceive Giova . 
This here , she pointed toward the dead man , he my father . 
Steal kill drink fight but always good to Giova . 
Good to no one else but Beppo . 
Even our people drive us out he , my father , so bad man . 
We wan der 'round country mak leetle money when Beppo dance mak lot money when HE steal . 
Two days he no come home . 
I go las' night look for him . 
Sometimes he too drunk come home he sleep Squeebs . 
He have fits , six , seven year . 
Giova strong , he no very large man . 
No one know we leeve here . 
Pretty soon I go way with Beppo . 
Why tell people he dead . 
Who care ? Mak lot trouble for Giova whose heart already ache plenty . 
No one love heem , only Beppo and Giova . 
No one love Giova , only Beppo but some day Beppo he keel Giova now HE is dead , for Beppo vera large , strong bear fierce bear ogly bear . 
Even Giova who love Bep po is afraid Beppo . 
Beppo devil bear ! Beppo got evil eye . 
Well , said Bridge , I guess , Giova , that you and we are in the same boat . 
Suppose we form a defensive alli ance , eh ? We'll help you and you help us . 
What do you say ? All right , acquiesced Giova but what we do with this ? and she jerked her thumb toward Willie Case . 
If he don't behave we'll feed him to Beppo , sug gested Bridge . 
Willie shook in his boots , figuratively speaking , for in reality he shook upon his bare feet . 
Lemme go , he wailed , an' I won't tell nobody nothin' . 
No , said Bridge , you don't go until we're safely out of here . 
I wouldn't trust that vanishing chin of yours as far as I could throw Beppo by the tail . 
Wait ! exclaimed The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I have it ! What have you ? asked Bridge . 
Listen ! cried the boy excitedly . 
This boy has been offered a hundred dollars for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the men who robbed and mur dered in Oakdale last night . 
I'll give him a hundred dollars if he'll go away and say nothing about us . 
Look here , son , said Bridge , every time you open your mouth you put your foot in it . 
The less you adver tise the fact that you have a hundred dollars the better off you'll be . 
Somehow I have faith in you but I doubt if any minion of the law would be similarly impressed . 
The Oskaloosa Kid appeared hurt and crestfallen . 
Giova shot a suspicious glance at him . 
The other girl in voluntarily drew away . 
Bridge noted the act and shook his head . 
I would rather not say who I am , please , she said . 
Well , said the man , let's take one another at face value for a while , without digging too deep into the past and now for our plans . 
So we might as well make the best of it here for the rest of the day . 
I think we're reasonably safe for the time being if we keep Willie with us . 
Willie had been an interested auditor of all that passed between his captors . 
He was obviously terrified but his terror did not prevent him from absorbing all that he heard , nor from planning how he might utilize the information . 
He saw not only one reward but sev eral and a glorious publicity which far transcended the most sanguine of his former dreams . 
He saw his picture not only in the Oakdale Tribune but in the newspapers of every city of the country . 
Gol durn , ef I don't hold out fer thirty ! Gee ! Words , thoughts even , failed him . 
As the others planned they rather neglected Willie and when they came to assisting Giova in lowering her father into the grave and covering him over with earth they quite forgot Willie entirely . 
It was The Oskaloosa Kid who first thought of him . 
Where's the boy ? he cried suddenly . 
The others looked quickly about the clearing , but no Willie was to be seen . 
Bridge shook his head ruefully . 
We'll have to get out of this in a hurry now , he said . 
That little defective will have the whole neighborhood on us in an hour . 
Oh , what can we do ? cried the girl . 
I didn't know what I was saying . 
You have all been good to me . 
I tell you what we do . 
It was Giova speaking in the masterful voice of one who has perfect confidence in his own powers . 
I know fine way out . 
This wood circle back south through swamp mile , mile an' a half . 
The road past Squeebs an' Case's go right through it . 
I know path there I fin' myself . 
We on'y have to cross road , that only danger . 
Then we reach leetle stream south of woods , stream wind down through Payson . 
I got lot clothing in house . 
We all go Gypsies , an' when we reach Payson we no try hide jus' come out on street with Beppo . 
No one think we try hide . 
Then come night we go 'way . 
Find more wood an' leetle lake other side Payson . 
We hide there long time . 
No one ever fin' us there . 
We tell two , three , four people in Payson we go Oakdale . 
They look Oakdale for us if they wan' fin' us . 
They no think look where we go . 
See ? Oh , I can't go to Payson , exclaimed the other girl . 
Someone would be sure to recognize me . 
You come in house with me , Giova assured her , I feex you so your own mother no know you . 
I geeve you what to wear like Gypsy mens . 
My father , him he steal many things from our people after they drive us out . 
He go back by nights an' steal . 
The three followed her toward the little hovel since there seemed no better plan than that which she had offered . 
Giova and the other girl were in the lead , fol lowed by Bridge and the boy . 
The latter turned to the man and placed a hand upon his arm . 
Why don't you leave us , he asked . 
No one is looking for you . 
Why don't you go your way and save yourself from suspicion . 
I believe , the youth went on , that you are doing it for me but why I can't guess . 
Maybe I am , Bridge half acknowledged . 
You're a good little kid , but you need someone to look after you . 
It would be easier though if you'd tell me the truth about yourself , which you certainly haven't up to now . 
Please don't ask me , begged the boy . 
I can't hon estly I can't . 
Is it as bad as that ? asked the man . 
Oh , its worse , cried The Oskaloosa Kid . 
It's a thou sand times worse . 
Before them was a small room in which a large , vicious looking brown bear was chained . 
Behold our ghost of last night ! exclaimed Bridge . 
By George ! though , I'd as soon have hunted a real ghost in the dark as to have run into this fellow . 
Did you know last night that it was a bear ? asked the Kid . 
You told Giova that you followed the foot prints of herself and her bear but you had not said any thing about a bear to us . 
There were two facts which argued that such was the case . 
Then when I saw the Gypsy girl I was sure that what we had heard last night was nothing more nor less than a trained bear . 
The dress and appearance of the dead man lent themselves to a furtherance of my belief and the wisp of brown hair clutched in his fingers added still further proof . 
Within the room the bear was now straining at his collar and growling ferociously at the strangers . 
It was a breathless Willie who broke into his mother's kitchen wide eyed and gasping from the effects of ex citement and a long , hard run . 
Fer lan' sakes ! exclaimed Mrs. Case . 
Whatever in the world ails you ? I got 'em I got 'em ! cried Willie , dashing for the telephone . 
Fer lan' sakes ! I should think you did hev 'em , re torted his mother as she trailed after him in the direc tion of the front hall . 
'N' whatever you got , you got 'em bad . 
Now you stop right where you air 'n' tell me what ever you got . 
'Taint likely its measles , fer you've hed them three times , 'n' whoopin' cough ain't 'them , it's 'it , 'n' . 
Mrs. Case paused and gasped horrified . 
Fer lan' sakes , Willie Case , you come right out o' this house this minute ef you got anything in your head . 
She made a grab for Willie's arm but the boy dodged and reached the telephone . 
I ain't got nothin' in my head , nor did either sense the unconscious humor of the state ment . 
What I got is a gang o' thieves an' murderers , an' I'm callin' up thet big city deetectiff to come arter 'em . 
Mrs. Case sank into a chair , prostrated by the weight of her emotions , while Willie took down the receiver af ter ringing the bell to attract central . 
Finally he ob tained his connection , which was with Jonas Prim's bank where detective Burton was making his headquarters . 
What Willie Case told Jonas Prim had the latter in a machine , with half a dozen deputy sheriffs and speed ing southward from Oakdale inside of ten minutes . 
A short distance out from town they met detective Burton with his two prisoners . 
He told a wild story about seeing them burying a dead man in the woods back of Squibbs' place . 
I don't know how much to believe , or whether to believe any of it but we can't afford not to run down every clew . 
I can't believe that my daugh ter is wilfully consorting with such men . 
She always has been full of life and spirit but she's got a clean mind , and her little escapades have always been en tirely harmless at worst some sort of boyish prank . 
I simply won't believe it until I see it with my own eyes . 
If she's with them she's being held by force . 
He was not a man to jump to conclusions . 
His success was largely due to the fact that he assumed nothing but merely ran down each clew quickly yet painstakingly until he had a foundation of fact upon which to operate . 
His theory was that the simplest way is always the best way and so he never be fogged the main issue with any elaborate system of de ductive reasoning based on guesswork . 
He assumed that it was his business to KNOW , nor was he on any case long before he did know . 
He was employed now to find Abigail Prim . 
When Burton had found them simulating sleep behind the bushes beside the road his observant eyes had noticed something that resem bled a hurried cache . 
When Burton and Jonas Prim arrived at the Case farm they were met by a new Willie . 
A puffed and important young man swaggered before them as he retold his tale and led them through the woods toward the spot where they were to bag their prey . 
They must be inside , whispered Willie to the detec tive . 
Burton passed a whispered word to his followers . 
Stealthily they crept through the underbrush until the cabin was surrounded then , at a signal from their leader they rose and advanced upon the structure . 
No evidence of life indicated their presence had been noted , and Burton came to the very door of the cabin unchallenged . 
The others saw him pause an instant upon the threshold and then pass in . 
They closed be hind him . 
Three minutes later he emerged , shaking his head . 
There is no one here , he announced . 
But they must be , he pleaded . 
I saw 'em here just a leetle while back . 
Burton turned and eyed the boy sternly . 
I seen 'em , he cried . 
They was here just a few minutes ago . 
Here's where they bur rit the dead man , and he pointed to the little mound of earth near the center of the clearing . 
We'll see , commented Burton , tersely , and he sent two of his men back to the Case farm for spades . 
Willie's stock rose once more to par . 
In an improvised litter they carried the dead man back to Case's farm where they left him after notifying the coroner by telephone . 
Half of Burton's men were sent to the north side of the woods and half to the road upon the south of the Squibbs' farm . 
There they sep arated and formed a thin line of outposts about the entire area north of the road . 
If the quarry was within it could not escape without being seen . 
In the mean time Burton telephoned to Oakdale for reinforcements , as it would require fifty men at least to properly beat the tangled underbrush of the wood . 
o o o In a clump of willows beside the little stream which winds through the town of Payson a party of four halted on the outskirts of the town . 
There were two men , two young women and a huge brown bear . 
The men and women were , obviously , Gypsies . 
Their clothing , their head dress , their barbaric ornamentation proclaimed the fact to whoever might pass but no one passed . 
I think , said Bridge , that we will just stay where we are until after dark . 
We haven't passed or seen a human being since we left the cabin . 
If we do meet anyone to night we'll stop them and inquire the way to Oakdale that'll throw them off the track . 
The others acquiesced in his suggestion but there were queries about food to be answered . 
It seemed that all were hungry and that the bear was ravenous . 
What does he eat ? Bridge asked of Giova . 
Mos' anything , replied the girl . 
Often I take him into towns late , ver' late at night an' he eat swill . 
I do that to night . 
Beppo , he got to be fed or he eat Giova . 
I go feed Beppo , you go get food for us then we all meet at edge of wood just other side town near old mill . 
During the remainder of the afternoon and well after dark the party remained hidden in the willows . 
In his years of vagabondage Bridge had never crossed that in visible line which separates honest men from thieves and murderers and which , once crossed , may never be re crossed . 
Chance and necessity had thrown him often among such men and women but never had he been of them . 
The police of more than one city knew Bridge they knew him , though , as a character and not as a criminal . 
The police who knew him knew that he was straight and they knew , too , that he would give no information against another man . 
For this they admired him as did the majority of the crim inals with whom he had come in contact during his rovings . 
The present crisis , however , appeared most unprom ising to Bridge . 
Grave crimes had been committed in Oakdale , and here was Bridge conniving in the escape of at least two people who might readily be under po lice suspicion . 
Bridge shook his head wearily . 
But why should he permit it ? What were they to him ? A freight train was puffing into the siding at the Pay son station . 
Bridge could hear the complaining brakes a mile away . 
It was recollection of the boy's words Oh , Bridge , I don't want to leave you ever . 
I couldn't do it , mused Bridge . 
I don't know just why but I couldn't . 
That kid has certainly got me . 
The first thing someone knows I'll be starting a foundlings' home . 
Now if it was a girl I could understand it . 
Bridge stopped suddenly in the middle of the road . 
From his attitude he might have been startled either by a surprising noise or by a surpris ing thought . 
As he entered the store to make his purchases a fox eyed man saw him and stepped quickly behind the huge stove which had not as yet been taken down for the summer . 
When Bridge departed the other followed him , keeping in the shadow of the trees which bordered the street . 
Around the edge of town and down a road which led southward the two went until Bridge passed through a broken fence and halted beside an abandoned mill . 
The watcher saw his quarry set down his burden , seat himself beside it and proceed to roll a cigaret then he faded away in the darkness and Bridge was alone . 
Five or ten minutes later two slender figures ap peared dimly out of the north . 
They approached timidly , stopping often and looking first this way and then that and always listening . 
When they arrived opposite the mill Bridge saw them and gave a low whistle . 
Immedi ately the two passed through the fence and approached him . 
My ! exclaimed one , I thought we never would get here but we didn't see a soul on the road . 
Where is Giova ? She hadn't come yet , replied Bridge , and she may not . 
At least I hope she won't . 
What's that ? exclaimed The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Each stood in silence , listening . 
Even now that I know what it is it makes me creep , she whispered , as the faint clank ing of a distant chain came to their ears . 
We ought to be used to it by this time , Miss Prim , said Bridge . 
We heard it all last night and a good part of to day . 
As the three stood waiting in silence Giova came pres ently among them , the beast Beppo lumbering awk wardly at her side . 
Did he find anything to eat ? asked the man . 
Oh , yes , exclaimed Giova . 
That mak him better nature . 
Beppo not so ugly now . 
Well , I'm glad of that , said Bridge . 
I haven't been looking forward much to his company through the woods to night especially while he was hungry ! Giova laughed a low , musical little laugh . 
I don' think he no hurt you anyway , she said . 
Now he know you my frien' . 
I hope you are quite correct in your surmise , re plied Bridge . 
But even so I'm not taking any chances . 
Immediately Willie snatched back the offending hand and glared ferociously at the ceiling . 
He could feel the roots of his hair being consumed in the heat of his skin . 
Never had Willie Case spent so frightful a half hour as that within the brilliant interior of The Elite Restau rant . 
Twenty three minutes of this eternity was con sumed in waiting for his order to be served and seven minutes in disposing of the meal and paying his check . 
Willie's method of eating was in itself a sermon on efficiency there was no lost motion no waste of time . 
In addition to the meat and potatoes there was one vegetable in a side dish and as dessert four prunes . 
The meat course gone Willie placed the vegetable dish on the empty plate , seized a spoon in lieu of knife and fork and presto ! the side dish was empty . 
Whereupon the prune dish was set in the empty side dish four deft motions and there were no prunes in the dish . 
The en tire feat had been accomplished in , setting a new world's record for red headed farmer boys with one splay foot . 
Clutched tightly in Willie's hand was thirty five cents and his check with a like amount written upon it . 
Amid the crash of crockery which followed the collision Willie slammed check and money upon the cashier's desk and fled . 
Nor did he pause until in the reassuring seclusion of a dark side street . 
A mo tion picture theater arrested his attention and pres ently , parting with one of his two remaining dimes , he entered . 
The feature of the bill was a detective melo drama . 
Nothing in the world could have better suited Willie's psychic needs . 
The show over Willie set forth afoot for home . 
A long walk lay ahead of him . 
He was ap proaching the entrance to an alley . 
Old trees grew in the parkway at his side . 
Willie recognized her at the first glance she was the very girl he had seen burying the dead man in the Squibbs woods . 
Instantly Willie Case was trans formed again into the shrewd and death defying sleuth . 
At a safe distance he followed the girl and the bear through one alley after another until they came out upon the road which leads south from Payson . 
He was across the road when she joined Bridge and his companions . 
When they turned toward the old mill he followed them , listening close to the rotting clapboards for any chance remark which might indicate their future plans . 
The objection to remaining here , said Bridge , is that we can't make a fire to cook by it would be too plainly visible from the road . 
But I can no fin' road by dark , explained Giova . 
It bad road by day , ver' much worse by night . 
Beppo no come 'cross swamp by night . 
No , we got stay here til morning . 
This disguise makes me feel too con spicuous . 
Willie Case had heard enough . 
His quarry would re main where it was over night , and a moment later Willie was racing toward Payson and a telephone as fast as his legs would carry him . 
I tell you I seen him , asserted one of the party . 
I follered this Bridge guy from town to the mill . 
He was got up like a Gyp but I knew him all right , all right . 
An' I sticks aroun' a minute until I hears this here Bridge guy call the first skirt 'Miss Prim . 
He ceased speaking to note the effect of his words on his hearers . 
The Sky Pilot sat up straight and slapped his thigh . 
Soup Face opened his mouth , letting his pipe fall out into his lap , setting fire to his ragged trousers . 
Dirty Eddie voiced a characteris tic obscenity . 
So you sees , went on Columbus Blackie , we got a chanct to get both the dame and The Kid . 
Two of us can take her to Oakdale an' claim the reward her old man's offerin' an' de odder two can frisk de Kid , an' an' . 
An' wot ? queried The Sky Pilot . 
Dere's de swamp handy , suggested Soup Face . 
I was tinkin' of de swamp , said Columbus Blackie . 
Eddie and I will return Miss Prim to her bereaved parents , interrupted The Sky Pilot . 
You , Blackie , and Soup Face can arrange matters with The Oskaloosa Kid . 
I don't care for details . 
We will all meet in Toledo as soon as possible and split the swag . 
We ought to make a cleaning on this job , boes . 
You split a mout'ful then , said Columbus Blackie . 
They fell to discussing way and means . 
We'd better wait until they're asleep , counseled The Sky Pilot . 
Two of us can tackle this Bridge and hand him the k . 
Eddie and Soup Face had better attend to that . 
Blackie can nab The Kid an' I'll annex Miss Abigail Prim . 
The lady with the calf we don't want . 
o o o Detective Burton was at the county jail in Oakdale administering the third degree to Dopey Charlie and The General when there came a long distance telephone call for him . 
Hello ! said the voice at the other end of the line I'm Willie Case , an' I've found Miss Abigail Prim . 
I know where she's goin' to be all night . 
I heard 'em say so . 
The Oskaloosie Kid's with her an' annuder guy an' the girl I seen with the dead man in Squibbs' woods an' they got a BEAR ! It was almost a shriek . 
You'd better come right away an' bring Mr. Prim . 
You say there are two men and two women are you sure that is all ? And the bear , corrected Willie . 
All right , keep quiet and wait for me , cautioned Burton . 
You'll know me by the spot light on my car I'll have it pointed straight up into the air . 
When you see it coming get into the middle of the road and wave your hands to stop us . 
Do you understand ? Yes , said Willie . 
And don't talk to anyone , Burton again cautioned him . 
o o o It was after midnight when four men cautiously ap proached the old mill . 
There was no light nor any sign of life within as they crept silently through the doorless doorway . 
Columbus Blackie was in the lead . 
He flashed a quick light around the interior revealing four forms stretched upon the floor , deep in slumber . 
Into the blacker shadows of the far end of the room the man failed to shine his light for the first flash had shown him those whom he sought . 
Picking out their quarry the intruders made a sudden rush upon the sleepers . 
Bridge awoke to find two men attempting to rain murderous blows upon his head . 
Wiry , strong and full of the vigor of a clean life , he pitted against their greater numbers and cowardly attack a defense which was infinitely more strenuous than they had expected . 
Columbus Blackie leaped for The Oskaloosa Kid , while The Sky Pilot seized upon Abigail Prim . 
Soup Face entangling himself about Bridge's legs suc ceeded in throwing the latter to the floor while Dirty Eddie kicked viciously at the prostrate man's head . 
Co lumbus Blackie found his hands full with The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Simultaneously a series of frightful growls reverber ated through the deserted mill . 
A huge body cata pulted into the midst of the fighters . 
The bear ! she cried . 
The bear is loose ! Dirty Eddie was the first to feel the weight of Beppo's wrath . 
His foot drawn back to implant a vicious kick in Bridge's face he paused at the girl's scream and at the same moment a huge thing reared up before him . 
Soup Face , giving voice to a scream more bestial than human , rose to his feet and fled in the oppo site direction . 
Beppo paused and looked about . 
He discovered Bridge lying upon the floor and sniffed at him . 
The man lay perfectly quiet . 
He had heard that often times a bear will not molest a creature which it thinks dead . 
Be that as it may Beppo chanced at that moment to glance toward the doorway . 
There , silhouetted against the lesser darkness without , he saw the figures of Co lumbus Blackie and The Oskaloosa Kid and with a growl he charged them . 
The two were but a few paces outside the doorway when the full weight of the great bear struck Columbus Blackie between the shoulders . 
Down went the man and as he fell he released his hold upon the youth who immediately turned and ran for the road . 
Columbus Blackie , casting a terrified glance rear ward , saw his Nemesis flashing toward him , and dodged around a large tree . 
Again Beppo shot past the man while the latter , now shrieking for help , raced madly in a new direction . 
Bridge had arisen and come out of the mill . 
He called aloud for The Oskaloosa Kid . 
Giova answered him from a small tree . 
Climb a tree ! Ever'one climb a small tree . 
Run ! Climb ! He keel me . 
Beppo he got evil eye . 
Along the road from the north came a large touring car , swinging from side to side in its speed . 
Its brilliant headlights illuminated the road far ahead . 
They picked out The Sky Pilot and Abigail Prim , they found The Oskaloosa Kid climbing a barbed wire fence and then with complaining brakes the car came to a sudden stop . 
Six men leaped from the machine and rounded up the three they had seen . 
Another came running toward them . 
It was Soup Face , so thoroughly terrified that he would gladly have embraced a policeman in uniform , could the latter have offered him protection . 
A boy accompanied the newcomers . 
There he is ! he screamed , pointing at The Oskaloosa Kid . 
There he is ! And you've got Miss Prim , too , and when do I get the reward ? Shut up ! said one of the men . 
Watch this bunch , said Burton to one of his lieuten ants , while we go after the rest of them . 
There are some over by the mill . 
From the woods came a fearfilled scream mingled with the savage growls of a beast . 
It's the bear , shrilled Willie Case , and ran toward the automobile . 
Bridge ran forward to meet Burton . 
Get that girl and the kid into your machine and beat it ! he cried . 
There's a bear loose here , a regular devil of a bear . 
You can't do a thing unless you have rifles . 
Have you ? Who are you ? asked the detective . 
He's one of the gang , yelled Willie Case from the fancied security of the tonneau . 
Seize him ! He wanted to add My men but somehow his nerve failed him at the last moment however he had the satisfaction of thinking it . 
Bridge was placed in the car with Abigail Prim , The Oskaloosa Kid , Soup Face and The Sky Pilot . 
Burton sent the driver back to assist in guarding them then he with the remaining three , two of whom were armed with rifles , advanced toward the mill . 
Beyond it they heard the growling of the bear at a little distance in the wood but the man no longer made any outcry . 
From a tree Giova warned them back . 
Come down ! commanded Burton , and sent her back to the car . 
The driver turned his spot light upon the wood be yond the mill and presently there came slowly forward into its rays the lumbering bulk of a large bear . 
The light bewildered him and he paused , growling . 
His left shoulder was partially exposed . 
Aim for his chest , on the left side , whispered Bur ton . 
The two men raised their rifles . 
There were two re ports in close succession . 
Beppo fell forward without a sound and then rolled over on his side . 
Giova covered her face with her hands and sobbed . 
He ver' bad , ugly bear , she said brokenly but he all I have to love . 
Bridge extended a hand and patted her bowed head . 
In the eyes of The Oskaloosa Kid there glistened some thing perilously similar to tears . 
He was also partially influenced in this decision by the fear that mob violence would be done the principals by Oakdale's outraged citizens . 
He then tele phoned Jonas Prim that his daughter was safe and would be returned to him in less than an hour . 
By the time Bridge and The Oskaloosa Kid reached Payson the town was in an uproar . 
A threatening crowd met them a block from the jail but Burton's men were armed with rifles which they succeeded in convincing the mob they would use if their prisoners were molested . 
The telephone , however , had carried the word to Oak dale so that before Burton arrived there a dozen auto mobile loads of indignant citizens were racing south to ward Payson . 
Bridge and The Oskaloosa Kid were hustled into the single cell of the Payson jail . 
A bench ran along two sides of the room . 
A single barred window let out upon the yard behind the structure . 
The floor was littered with papers , and a single electric light bulb relieved the gloom of the unsavory place . 
The Oskaloosa Kid sank , trembling , upon one of the hard benches . 
At his feet lay a copy of that day's Oakdale Tribune . 
A face looked up from the printed page into his eyes . 
He stooped and took up the paper . 
The entire front page was devoted to the various crimes which had turned peaceful Oakdale inside out in the past twenty four hours . 
As Bridge examined the various pictures an odd expression en tered his eyes it was a mixture of puzzlement , incredu lity , and relief . 
Tossing the paper aside he turned to ward The Oskaloosa Kid . 
They could hear the sullen murmur of the crowd in front of the jail . 
If they get any booze , he said , they'll take us out of here and string us up . 
Beppo was an angel of mercy by comparison with one . 
Could you convince them that you had no part in any of these crimes ? asked the boy . 
I know that you didn't but could you prove it to a mob ? No , said Bridge . 
A mob is not open to reason . 
If they get us I shall hang , unless someone happens to think of the stake . 
Will you tell the truth ? asked the man . 
I will go with you , replied the boy , and take what ever you get . 
The youth flushed but did not reply , for there came from without a sudden augmentation of the murmur ings of the mob . 
Automobile horns screamed out upon the night . 
The two heard the chugging of motors , the sound of brakes and the greetings of new arrivals . 
The reinforcements had arrived from Oakdale . 
A guard came to the grating of the cell door . 
The bunch from Oakdale has come , he said . 
If I was you I'd say my prayers . 
Old man Baggs is dead . 
No one never had no use for him while he was alive , but the whole county's het up now over his death . 
They're bound to get you , an' while I didn't count 'em all I seen about a score o' ropes . 
Bridge turned toward the boy . 
Tell the truth , he said . 
The youth shook his head . 
I have killed no one , said he . 
What is it ? asked Bridge . 
The Oskaloosa Kid shook his head , and once more he flushed . 
Well , said the guard , with a shrug of his shoulders , it's up to you guys . 
If you want to hang , why hang and be damned . 
The uproar in front of the jail had risen in volume until it was difficult for those within to make themselves heard without shouting . 
The Kid sat upon his bench and buried his face in his hands . 
The sound of a shot came from the front room of the jail , immediately followed by a roar of rage from the mob and a deafening hammering upon the jail door . 
A moment later this turned to the heavy booming of a battering ram and the splintering of wood . 
The frail structure quivered beneath the onslaught . 
Burton's car drew up before the doorway of the Prim home in Oakdale . 
The great detective alighted and handed down the missing Abigail . 
Then be directed that the other prisoners be taken to the county jail . 
Jonas Prim and his wife awaited Abigail's return in the spacious living room at the left of the reception hall . 
He paced to and fro the length of the room . 
Mrs. Prim fanned herself vigorously although the heat was far from excessive . 
They heard the motor draw up in front of the house but they did not venture into the reception hall or out upon the porch , though for different reasons . 
They heard the closing of an automobile door and the sound of foot steps coming up the concrete walk . 
The Prim butler was already waiting at the doorway with the doors swung wide to receive the prodigal daughter of the house of Prim . 
A slender figure with bowed head ascended the steps , guided and assisted by the detective . 
She did not look up at the expectant but ler waiting for the greeting he was sure Abigail would have for him but passed on into the reception hall . 
Your father and Mrs. Prim are in the living room , announced the butler , stepping forward to draw aside the heavy hangings . 
The girl , followed by Burton , entered the brightly lighted room . 
I am very glad , Mr. Prim , said the latter , to be able to return Miss Prim to you so quickly and un harmed . 
The girl looked up into the face of Jonas Prim . 
The man voiced an exclamation of surprise and annoyance . 
Mrs. Prim gasped and sank upon a sofa . 
The girl stood motionless , her eyes once again bent upon the floor . 
What's the matter ? asked Burton . 
What's wrong ? Everything is wrong , Mr. Burton , Jonas Prim's voice was crisp and cold . 
This is not my daughter . 
Burton looked his surprise and discomfiture . 
He turned upon the girl . 
What do you mean he started but she interrupted him . 
You are going to ask what I mean by posing as Miss Prim , she said . 
I have never said that I was Miss Prim . 
I wanted to ask him to help me . 
I have never met him , or his daughter either but my father and Mr. Prim have been friends for many years . 
I am Hettie Penning , she continued , addressing Jonas Prim . 
My father has always admired you and from what he has told me I knew that you would listen to me and do what you could for me . 
I could not bear to think of going to the jail in Payson , for Payson is my home . 
Everybody would have known me . 
It would have killed my father . 
Then I wanted to come myself and tell you , after reading the reports and insinuations in the paper , that your daughter was not with Reginald Payn ter when he was killed . 
She had no knowledge of the crime and as far as I know may not have yet . 
I have not seen her and do not know where she is but I was present when Mr. Paynter was killed . 
I have known him for years and have often driven with him . 
He stopped me yesterday afternoon on the street in Payson and talked with me . 
He was sitting in a car in front of the bank . 
After we had talked a few minutes two men came out of the bank . 
Mr. Paynter introduced them to me . 
He asked me if I wouldn't like to come along he kind of dared me to , because , as you know , The Crossroads has rather a bad reputation . 
Father had gone to Toledo on business , and very foolishly I took his dare . 
Both of them were drunk . 
After that it all happened so quickly that I could scarcely follow it . 
After that the other two men seemed quite sobered . 
They discussed what would be the best thing to do and at last decided to throw Mr. Paynter's body out of the machine , for it was quite evident that he was dead . 
They took his watch , jewelry , and a large roll of bills . 
We passed around the east side of Oakdale and came back into the Toledo road . 
A little way out of town they turned the machine around and ran back for about half a mile then they turned about a second time . 
I don't know why they did this . 
They threw the body out while the machine was moving rapidly but I was so frightened that I can't say whether it was before or after they turned about the second time . 
In front of the old Squibbs place they shot at me and threw me out but the bullet missed me . 
I have not seen them since and do not know where they went . 
I am ready and willing to aid in their conviction but , please Mr. Prim , won't you keep me from being sent back to Payson or to jail . 
I have done nothing criminal and I won't run away . 
How about the robbery of Miss Prim's room and the murder of Old Man Baggs ? asked Burton . 
And the rest of the gang , those that were arrested with you , continued the detective , how about them ? All angels , I suppose . 
The others were tramps who came into the old mill and attacked us while we were asleep . 
I don't know who they were . 
The girl could have had nothing to do with any of the crimes . 
We came upon her this morning burying her father in the woods back of the Squibbs' place . 
The man died of epilepsy last night . 
Bridge and the boy were taking refuge from the storm at the Squibbs place when I was thrown from the car . 
They heard the shot and came to my rescue . 
I am sure they had nothing to do with with she hesi tated . 
Tell the truth , commanded Burton . 
It will go hard with you if you don't . 
What made you hesitate ? You know something about those two now out with it . 
The boy robbed Mr. Prim's home I saw some of the money and jewelry but Bridge was not with him . 
They just happened to meet by accident during the storm and came to the Squibbs place together . 
They were kind to me , and I hate to tell anything that would get the boy in trouble . 
That is the reason I hesitated . 
He seemed such a nice boy ! It is hard to believe that he is a criminal , and Bridge was always so considerate . 
He looks like a tramp but he talks and acts like a gentle man . 
The telephone bell rang briskly , and a moment later the butler stepped into the room to say that Mr. Burton was wanted on the wire . 
He returned to the living room in two or three minutes . 
That clears up some of it , he said as be entered . 
The sheriff just had a message from the chief at Toledo saying that The Oskaloosa Kid is dying in a hospital there following an automobile accident . 
He knew he was done for and sent for the police . 
When they came he told them he had killed a man by the name of Paynter at Oakdale last night and the chief called up to ask what we knew about it . 
The Kid confessed to clear his pal who was only slightly injured in the smash up . 
His story corroborates Miss Penning's in every detail , he also said that after killing Paynter he had shot a girl witness and thrown her from the car to prevent her squealing . 
Once again the telephone bell rang , long and insist ently . 
The butler almost ran into the room . 
Payson wants you , sir , he cried to Burton , in a hurry , sir , it's a matter of life and death , sir ! Burton sprang to the phone . 
I'm going to Payson , and dashed from the house . 
Wait , cried Jonas Prim , I'm going with you , and without waiting to find a hat he ran quickly after the de tective . 
Once in the car he leaned forward urging the driver to greater speed . 
God in heaven ! he almost cried , the fools are go ing to kill the only man who can tell me anything about Abigail . 
The single guard was brushed away . 
A dozen men wielding three railroad ties battered upon the grat ing of the door , swinging the ties far back and then in unison bringing them heavily forward against the puny iron . 
Bridge spoke to them once . 
What are you going to do with us ? he asked . 
We're goin' to hang you higher 'n' Haman , you damned kidnappers an' murderers , yelled a man in the crowd . 
Why don't you give us a chance ? asked Bridge in an even tone , unaltered by fear or excitement . 
As a matter of fact we are both inno cent Oh , shut your damned mouth , interrupted another of the crowd . 
Bridge shrugged his shoulders and turned toward the youth who stood very white but very straight in a far corner of the cell . 
He crossed to the youth's side and put his arm around the slender figure . 
There's no use arguing with them , he said . 
They've made up their minds , or what they think are minds , that we're guilty but principally they're out for a sensation . 
They want to see something die , and we're it . 
I doubt if anything could stop them now they'd think we'd cheated them if we suddenly proved beyond doubt that we were innocent . 
The boy pressed close to the man . 
God help me to be brave , he said , as brave as you are . 
We'll go together , Bridge , and on the other side you'll learn something that'll surprise you . 
A gawky farmer seized the boy and struck him cruelly across the mouth . 
You beast ! cried Bridge . 
Can't you see that that that's only a child ? If I don't live long enough to give you yours here , I'll come back and haunt you to your grave . 
Eh ? ejaculated Jeb Case but his sallow face turned white , and after that he was less rough with his prisoner . 
The two were dragged roughly from the jail . 
Through town they haled them and out along the road toward Oakdale . 
There was some talk of taking them to the scene of Paynter's supposed murder but wiser heads counselled against it lest the sheriff come with a posse of deputies and spoil their fun . 
Beneath a great tree they halted them , and two ropes were thrown over a stout branch . 
By gum ! he cried , I reckon we ain't made no mis take here , boys . 
Look ahere ! and he displayed two handsful of money and jewelry . 
Thet's Abbie Prim's stuff , cried one . 
The boy beside Bridge turned wide eyes upon the man . 
Where did you get it ? he cried . 
Oh , Bridge , why did you do it ? Now they will kill you , and he turned to the crowd . 
Oh , please listen to me , he begged . 
He didn't steal those things . 
They have always belonged to me . 
It was too late , and Bridge knew it . 
Men were adjusting ropes about their necks . 
Be fore you hang us , said Bridge quietly , would you mind explaining just what we're being hanged for it's sort of comforting to know , you see . 
Thet's right , spoke up one of the crowd . 
We want to do things fair and square . 
Tell 'em the charges , an' then ask 'em ef they got anything to say afore they're hung . 
This appealed to the crowd the last statements of the doomed men might add another thrill to the eve ning's entertainment . 
Well , said the man who had searched them . 
There might o' been some doubts about you before , but they aint none now . 
You're bein' hung fer abductin' of an' most likely murderin' Miss Abigail Prim . 
The boy screamed and tried to interrupt but Jeb Case placed a heavy and soiled hand over his mouth . 
This slicker admitted he was The Oskaloosa Kid , 'n' thet he robbed a house an' shot a man las' night 'n' they ain't no tellin' what more he's ben up to . 
He tole Jeb Case's Willie 'bout it an' bragged on it , by gum . 
'Nenny way we know Paynter and Abi gail Prim was last seed with this here Oskaloosa Kid , durn him . 
Thanks , said Bridge politely , and now may I make my final statement before going to meet my maker ? Go on , growled the man . 
You won't interrupt me ? Naw , go on . 
All right ! You damn fools have made up your minds to hang us . 
The reason I could not have murdered Miss Prim is because Miss Prim is not dead . 
These jewels were not stolen from Miss Prim , she took them herself from her own home . 
This boy whom you are about to hang is not a boy at all it is Miss Prim , herself . 
I guessed her secret a few minutes ago and was convinced when she cried that the jewels and money were her own . 
I don't know why she wishes to conceal her identity but I can't stand by and see her lynched without trying to save her . 
The crowd scoffed in incredulity . 
There are some women here , said Bridge . 
Turn her over to them . 
They'll tell you , at least that she is not a man . 
Some voices were raised in protest , saying that it was a ruse to escape , while others urged that the women take the youth . 
Jeb Case stepped toward the subject of dispute . 
I'll settle it durned quick , he announced and reached forth to seize the slim figure . 
Almost simultaneously a car sped around a curve from the north and stopped suddenly in rear of the mob . 
Two men leaped out and shouldered their way through . 
One was the detective , Burton the other was Jonas Prim . 
Where are they ? cried the latter . 
God help you if you've killed either of them , for one of them must know what became of Abigail . 
He pushed his way up until he faced the prisoners . 
The Oskaloosa Kid gave him a single look of surprise and then sprang toward him with outstretched arms . 
Oh , daddy , daddy ! she cried , don't let them kill him . 
The crowd melted away from the immediate vicinity of the prisoners . 
None seemed anxious to appear in the forefront as a possible leader of a mob that had so nearly lynched the only daughter of Jonas Prim . 
Bur ton slipped the noose from about the girl's neck and then turned toward her companion . 
You ? he almost shouted . 
Gad , man ! where have you been ? Your father's spent twenty thousand dollars trying to find you . 
I'm sorry , Dick , he said , but I'm afraid it's too late . 
The open road's gotten into my blood , and there's only one thing that well he shook his head and smiled ruefully but there ain't a chance . 
His eyes travelled to the slim figure sitting so straight in the rear seat of Jonas Prim's car . 
Suddenly the little head turned in his direction . 
Hurry , Bridge , admonished The Oskaloosa Kid , you're coming home with us . 
The man stepped toward the car , shaking his head . 
Oh , no , Miss Prim , he said , I can't do that . 
And he smiled as he passed over her jewels and money . 
Mr. Prim's eyes widened he looked suspiciously at Bridge . 
The picture in the paper gave me the first inkling that you were a girl , for you looked so much like the one of Miss Prim . 
And now good by , and may God bless you ! His voice trembled ever so little , and he extended his hand . 
I want you to come with us , she said . 
I want Father to know you and to know how you have cared for me . 
Wont you come for me ? I couldn't refuse , if you put it that way , replied Bridge and he climbed into the car . 
As the machine started off a boy leaped to the running board . 
Hey ! he yelled , where's my reward ? I want my re ward . 
I gave your reward to your father maybe he'll split it with you . 
And the car moved off . 
You see , said Burton , with a wry smile , how simple is the detective's job . 
Willie is a natural born detective . 
He got everything wrong from A to Izzard , yet if it hadn't been for Willie we might not have cleared up the mystery so soon . 
It isn't all cleared up yet , said Jonas Prim . 
Who murdered Baggs ? Two yeggs known as Dopey Charlie and the Gen eral , replied Burton . 
They are in the jail at Oakdale but they don't know yet that I know they are guilty . 
Good ! exclaimed Mr. Prim . 
But the man didn't know you were a girl , suggested Mr. Prim . 
There were two other girls with us , both very pretty , replied Abigail , and he was as courteous and kindly to them as a man could be to a woman . 
I don't care any thing about his clothes , Daddy Bridge is a gentleman born and raised anyone could tell it after half an hour with him . 
You are right , he said . 
Bridge , as you call him , is a gentleman . 
He comes of one of the finest families of Vir ginia and one of the wealthiest . 
You need have no hesitancy , Mr. Prim , in inviting him into your home . 
For a while the three sat in silence and then Jonas Prim turned to his daughter . 
Gail , he said , before we get home I wish you'd tell me why you did this thing . 
I think you'd rather tell me before we see Mrs. P. It was Sam Benham , Daddy , whispered the girl . 
I'd rather die , and so I ran away . 
I was going to be a tramp but I had no idea a tramp's existence was so adventurous . 
You won't make me marry him , Daddy , will you ? I wouldn't be happy , Daddy . 
I should say not , Gail you can be an old maid all your life if you want to . 
But I don't want to I only want to choose my own husband , replied Abigail . 
Mrs. Prim met them all in the living room . 
He smiled ruefully as Burton looked him over . 
I ven ture to say , he drawled , that there are other things in the world besides the open road . 
It was midnight when the Prims and their guests arose from the table . 
Hettie Penning was with them , and ev eryone present had been sworn to secrecy about her share in the tragedy of the previous night . 
Tell me , demanded the girl , why you were so kind to me when you thought me a worthless little scamp of a boy who had robbed some one's home . 
I couldn't have told you a few hours ago , said Bridge . 
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Oakdale Affair PAGE PARA . 
can knab can nab an upraor . 
we aint we ain't had all drank had all drunk Squibb's place . 
