In starting out from the ranch house that morning , he had forgotten his watch , and was now perplexed to know whether the whistle was blowing for twelve or for one o'clock . 
As he was leaving the house after breakfast , Mrs. Derrick had asked him to go for the mail at Bonneville , and he had not been able to refuse . 
He took a firmer hold of the cork grips of his handlebars the road being in a wretched condition after the recent hauling of the crop and quickened his pace . 
There had not been much of a crop to haul that year . 
Half of the wheat on the Broderson ranch had failed entirely , and Derrick himself had hardly raised more than enough to supply seed for the winter's sowing . 
Since the day of its completion , the storekeepers and retailers of Bonneville had painted their advertisements upon it . 
In that reach of level fields , the white letters upon it could be read for miles . 
A watering trough stood near by , and , as he was very thirsty , Presley resolved to stop for a moment to get a drink . 
He drew abreast of the tank and halted there , leaning his bicycle against the fence . 
A couple of men in white overalls were repainting the surface of the tank , seated on swinging platforms that hung by hooks from the roof . 
They were painting a sign an advertisement . 
It was all but finished and read , S. Behrman , Real Estate , Mortgages , Main Street , Bonneville , Opposite the Post Office . 
On the horse trough that stood in the shadow of the tank was another freshly painted inscription S. Behrman Has Something To Say To You . 
As Presley straightened up after drinking from the faucet at one end of the horse trough , the watering cart itself laboured into view around the turn of the Lower Road . 
Hello , Bismarck , said Presley , as Hooven brought his team to a standstill by the tank , preparatory to refilling . 
Yoost der men I look for , Mist'r Praicely , cried the other , twisting the reins around the brake . 
Yoost one minute , you wait , hey ? I wanta talk mit you . 
Presley was impatient to be on his way again . 
A little more time wasted , and the day would be lost . 
He had nothing to do with the management of the ranch , and if Hooven wanted any advice from him , it was so much breath wasted . 
These uncouth brutes of farmhands and petty ranchers , grimed with the soil they worked upon , were odious to him beyond words . 
Never could he feel in sympathy with them , nor with their lives , their ways , their marriages , deaths , bickerings , and all the monotonous round of their sordid existence . 
Well , you must be quick about it , Bismarck , he answered sharply . 
I'm late for dinner , as it is . 
Two minuten , und I be mit you . 
He drew down the overhanging spout of the tank to the vent in the circumference of the cart and pulled the chain that let out the water . 
Then he climbed down from the seat , jumping from the tire of the wheel , and taking Presley by the arm led him a few steps down the road . 
Say , I want to hef some converzations mit you . 
Yoost der men I want to see . 
Say , Caraher , he tole me dis morgen say , he tole me Mist'r Derrick gowun to farm der whole demn rench hisseluf der next yahr . 
Do I alzoh You'll have to see Derrick himself or Harran about that , Bismarck , interrupted Presley , trying to draw away . 
That's something outside of me entirely . 
But Hooven was not to be put off . 
No doubt he had been meditating his speech all the morning , formulating his words , preparing his phrases . 
Say , no , no , he continued . 
Me , I wanta stay bei der place seven yahr I hef stay . 
Mist'r Derrick , he doand want dot I should be ge sacked . 
Who , den , will der ditch ge tend ? Say , you tell 'um Bismarck hef gotta sure stay bei der place . 
Say , you hef der pull mit der Governor . 
You speak der gut word for me . 
Harran is the man that has the pull with his father , Bismarck , answered Presley . 
You get Harran to speak for you , and you're all right . 
Say , you hef hear about dose ting ? I don't hear about anything , Bismarck . 
I don't know the first thing about how the ranch is run . 
UND DER PIPE LINE GE MEND , Hooven burst out , suddenly remembering a forgotten argument . 
Ach , der pipe line bei der Mission Greek , und der waater hole for dose cettles . 
Say , he doand doo ut HIMSELLUF , berhaps , I doand tink . 
Well , talk to Harran about it . 
Say , he doand farm der whole demn rench bei hisseluf . 
Me , I gotta stay . 
But on a sudden the water in the cart gushed over the sides from the vent in the top with a smart sound of splashing . 
Hooven was forced to turn his attention to it . 
Presley got his wheel under way . 
I hef some converzations mit Herran , Hooven called after him . 
He doand doo ut bei hisseluf , den , Mist'r Derrick ach , no . 
I stay bei der rench to drive dose cettles . 
Git oop , you mule you , hoop ! Meanwhile Presley had turned into the Lower Road . 
He was now on Derrick's land , division No. I , or , as it was called , the Home ranch , of the great Los Muertos Rancho . 
On the lawn at the side of the house . 
he saw Harran in the act of setting out the automatic sprinkler . 
Presley wheeled up the driveway and met Harran by the horse block . 
Harran was Magnus Derrick's youngest son , a very well looking young fellow of twenty three or twenty five . 
He was blond , and incessant exposure to the sun had , instead of tanning him brown , merely heightened the colour of his cheeks . 
His yellow hair had a tendency to curl in a forward direction , just in front of the ears . 
Beside him , Presley made the sharpest of contrasts . 
Presley seemed to have come of a mixed origin appeared to have a nature more composite , a temperament more complex . 
Unlike Harran Derrick , he seemed more of a character than a type . 
The sun had browned his face till it was almost swarthy . 
The impression conveyed by his mouth and chin was that of a delicate and highly sensitive nature , the lips thin and loosely shut together , the chin small and rather receding . 
One guessed that Presley's refinement had been gained only by a certain loss of strength . 
It could be foreseen that morally he was of that sort who avoid evil through good taste , lack of decision , and want of opportunity . 
His temperament was that of the poet when he told himself he had been thinking , he deceived himself . 
He had , on such occasions , been only brooding . 
It was his insatiable ambition to write verse . 
But up to this time , his work had been fugitive , ephemeral , a note here and there , heard , appreciated , and forgotten . 
had been done to catch at that life in passing , but its poet had not yet arisen . 
The few sporadic attempts , thus he told himself , had only touched the keynote . 
As Harran came up , Presley reached down into the pouches of the sun bleached shooting coat he wore and drew out and handed him the packet of letters and papers . 
I think I shall go on . 
But dinner is ready , said Harran we are just sitting down . 
No , I'm in a hurry . 
Perhaps I shall have something to eat at Guadalajara . 
I shall be gone all day . 
What case ? Oh , in the matter of rates ? Harran nodded , his eyes flashing , his face growing suddenly scarlet . 
Ulsteen gave his decision yesterday , he continued , reading from his father's letter . 
That's our friend S. Behrman again , added Harran , grinding his teeth . 
He was up in the city the whole of the time the new schedule was being drawn , and he and Ulsteen and the Railroad Commission were as thick as thieves . 
He has been up there all this last week , too , doing the railroad's dirty work , and backing Ulsteen up . 
'Legitimate profit , legitimate profit , he broke out . 
By the way , Presley called after him , Hooven wants to see you . 
He asked me about this idea of the Governor's of getting along without the tenants this year . 
Hooven wants to stay to tend the ditch and look after the stock . 
I told him to see you . 
Harran , his mind full of other things , nodded to say he understood . 
These matters , these eternal fierce bickerings between the farmers of the San Joaquin and the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad irritated him and wearied him . 
He cared for none of these things . 
They did not belong to his world . 
It was material , sordid , deadly commonplace . 
But , however he strove to shut his eyes to it or his ears to it , the thing persisted and persisted . 
The romance seemed complete up to that point . 
There it broke , there it failed , there it became realism , grim , unlovely , unyielding . 
To be true and it was the first article of his creed to be unflinchingly true he could not ignore it . 
All the noble poetry of the ranch the valley seemed in his mind to be marred and disfigured by the presence of certain immovable facts . 
Just what he wanted , Presley hardly knew . 
On one hand , it was his ambition to portray life as he saw it directly , frankly , and through no medium of personality or temperament . 
But , on the other hand , as well , he wished to see everything through a rose coloured mist a mist that dulled all harsh outlines , all crude and violent colours . 
His heart went out to the people , and his groping hand met that of a slovenly little Dutchman , whom it was impossible to consider seriously . 
He searched for the True Romance , and , in the end , found grain rates and unjust freight tariffs . 
But the stuff is HERE , he muttered , as he sent his wheel rumbling across the bridge over Broderson Creek . 
The romance , the real romance , is here somewhere . 
I'll get hold of it yet . 
He shot a glance about him as if in search of the inspiration . 
By now he was not quite half way across the northern and narrowest corner of Los Muertos , at this point some eight miles wide . 
He was still on the Home ranch . 
The road over which Presley was travelling ran almost diametrically straight . 
In front of him , but at a great distance , he could make out the giant live oak and the red roof of Hooven's barn that stood near it . 
All about him the country was flat . 
In all directions he could see for miles . 
The harvest was just over . 
Nothing but stubble remained on the ground . 
With the one exception of the live oak by Hooven's place , there was nothing green in sight . 
The wheat stubble was of a dirty yellow the ground , parched , cracked , and dry , of a cheerless brown . 
And that was all that and the burnt out blue of the sky and the steady shimmer of the heat . 
After the harvest , small though that harvest had been , the ranches seemed asleep . 
It was the period between seasons , when nothing was being done , when the natural forces seemed to hang suspended . 
There was no rain , there was no wind , there was no growth , no life the very stubble had no force even to rot . 
Toward two o'clock , Presley reached Hooven's place , two or three grimy frame buildings , infested with a swarm of dogs . 
A hog or two wandered aimlessly about . 
Under a shed by the barn , a broken down seeder lay rusting to its ruin . 
But overhead , a mammoth live oak , the largest tree in all the country side , towered superb and magnificent . 
Grey bunches of mistletoe and festoons of trailing moss hung from its bark . 
From its lowest branch hung Hooven's meat safe , a square box , faced with wire screens . 
Besides this , the ditch was a natural boundary between two divisions of the Los Muertos ranch , the first and fourth . 
Presley now had the choice of two routes . 
His objective point was the spring at the headwaters of Broderson Creek , in the hills on the eastern side of the Quien Sabe ranch . 
The trail afforded him a short cut thitherward . 
As he passed the house , Mrs. Hooven came to the door , her little daughter Hilda , dressed in a boy's overalls and clumsy boots , at her skirts . 
She nodded to Presley , watching him with a stolid gaze from under her arm , which she held across her forehead to shade her eyes . 
But now Presley exerted himself in good earnest . 
He resolved that after all he would go to Guadalajara . 
He was on the fourth division of the ranch now , the only one whereon the wheat had been successful , no doubt because of the Little Mission Creek that ran through it . 
But he no longer occupied himself with the landscape . 
His only concern was to get on as fast as possible . 
But now he would do well if he arrived there by the middle of the afternoon . 
In a few moments he had reached the line fence that marked the limits of the ranch . 
Here were the railroad tracks , and just beyond a huddled mass of roofs , with here and there an adobe house on its outskirts the little town of Guadalajara . 
No trains passed at this hour . 
From the direction of the ticket window , Presley heard the unsteady chittering of the telegraph key . 
In the shadow of one of the baggage trucks upon the platform , the great yellow cat that belonged to the agent dozed complacently , her paws tucked under her body . 
Hello , there , Mr. Presley . 
What's the good word ? Presley looked up quickly , and saw Dyke , the engineer , leaning on his folded arms from the cab window of the freight engine . 
But at the prospect of this further delay , Presley was less troubled . 
Dyke and he were well acquainted and the best of friends . 
The picturesqueness of the engineer's life was always attractive to Presley , and more than once he had ridden on Dyke's engine between Guadalajara and Bonneville . 
Once , even , he had made the entire run between the latter town and San Francisco in the cab . 
Dyke's home was in Guadalajara . 
He lived in one of the remodelled 'dobe cottages , where his mother kept house for him . 
His wife had died some five years before this time , leaving him a little daughter , Sidney , to bring up as best he could . 
Dyke himself was a heavy built , well looking fellow , nearly twice the weight of Presley , with great shoulders and massive , hairy arms , and a tremendous , rumbling voice . 
Hello , old man , answered Presley , coming up to the engine . 
What are you doing about here at this time of day ? I thought you were on the night service this month . 
We've changed about a bit , answered the other . 
Come up here and sit down , and get out of the sun . 
They've held us here to wait orders , he explained , as Presley , after leaning his bicycle against the tender , climbed to the fireman's seat of worn green leather . 
They are changing the run of one of the crack passenger engines down below , and are sending her up to Fresno . 
There was a smash of some kind on the Bakersfield division , and she's to hell and gone behind her time . 
I suppose when she comes , she'll come a humming . 
It will be stand clear and an open track all the way to Fresno . 
They have held me here to let her go by . 
He took his pipe , an old T. D. clay , but coloured to a beautiful shiny black , from the pocket of his jumper and filled and lit it . 
Well , I don't suppose you object to being held here , observed Presley . 
Gives you a chance to visit your mother and the little girl . 
And precisely they choose this day to go up to Sacramento , answered Dyke . 
Went up to visit my brother's people . 
By the way , my brother may come down here locate here , I mean and go into the hop raising business . 
He's got an option on five hundred acres just back of the town here . 
He says there is going to be money in hops . 
I don't know may be I'll go in with him . 
Why , what's the matter with railroading ? Dyke drew a couple of puffs on his pipe , and fixed Presley with a glance . 
There's this the matter with it , he said I'm fired . 
Fired ! You ! exclaimed Presley , turning abruptly toward him . 
That's what I'm telling you , returned Dyke grimly . 
Why , what for , Dyke ? Now , YOU tell me what for , growled the other savagely . 
Boy and man , I've worked for the P. and S. W. for over ten years , and never one yelp of a complaint did I ever hear from them . 
They know damn well they've not got a steadier man on the road . 
And more than that , more than that , I don't belong to the Brotherhood . 
And when the strike came along , I stood by them stood by the company . 
To hell with their gold watches ! I want ordinary justice and fair treatment . 
Cut me along with listen to this cut me along with men that they had BLACK LISTED strikers that they took back because they were short of hands . 
He drew fiercely on his pipe . 
I went to them , yes , I did I went to the General Office , and ate dirt . 
The swine told me that it wouldn't be fair to discriminate in favour of one man , and that the cut must apply to all their employees alike . 
Fair ! he shouted with laughter . 
Fair ! Hear the P. and S. W. talking about fairness and discrimination . 
That's good , that is . 
Well , I got furious . 
I was a fool , I suppose . 
I told them that , in justice to myself , I wouldn't do first class work for third class pay . 
And they said , 'Well , Mr. Dyke , you know what you can do . 
Well , I did know . 
I said , 'I'll ask for my time , if you please , and they gave it to me just as if they were glad to be shut of me . 
So there you are , Presley . 
That's the P. S. W. Railroad Company of California . 
I am on my last run now . 
Shameful , declared Presley , his sympathies all aroused , now that the trouble concerned a friend of his . 
But , he added , an idea occurring to him , that don't shut you out from work . 
There are other railroads in the State that are not controlled by the P. and S. W. Dyke smote his knee with his clenched fist . 
The station agent came to the door of the depot , stretching and yawning . 
On ahead of the engine , the empty rails of the track , reaching out toward the horizon , threw off visible layers of heat . 
The telegraph key clicked incessantly . 
So I'm going to quit , Dyke remarked after a while , his anger somewhat subsided . 
My brother and I will take up this hop ranch . 
I've saved a good deal in the last ten years , and there ought to be money in hops . 
Presley went on , remounting his bicycle , wheeling silently through the deserted streets of the decayed and dying Mexican town . 
It was the hour of the siesta . 
There was no business in the town . 
It was too close to Bonneville for that . 
Before the railroad came , and in the days when the raising of cattle was the great industry of the country , it had enjoyed a fierce and brilliant life . 
and an old fellow ! the centenarian of the town , decrepit beyond belief , sang an interminable love song to the accompaniment of a guitar and an accordion . 
These Spanish Mexicans , decayed , picturesque , vicious , and romantic , never failed to interest Presley . 
Upon this occasion , Presley offered the old man a drink of mescal , and excited him to talk of the things he remembered . 
Their talk was in Spanish , a language with which Presley was familiar . 
De La Cuesta held the grant of Los Muertos in those days , the centenarian said a grand man . 
He had the power of life and death over his people , and there was no law but his word . 
There was no thought of wheat then , you may believe . 
Wheat , olives , and the vine the Fathers planted those , to provide the elements of the Holy Sacrament bread , oil , and wine , you understand . 
I remember when De La Cuesta was married . 
But he fell in love with that , and marry her he would . 
The affair was arranged between him and the girl's parents . 
But when the time came that De La Cuesta was to go to Monterey to meet and marry the girl , behold , Jesus Tejeda broke in upon the small rancheros near Terrabella . 
It was no time for De La Cuesta to be away , so he sent his brother Esteban to Monterey to marry the girl by proxy for him . 
We were a company , nearly a hundred men . 
Well , there was a ceremony in the Monterey Mission , and Esteban , in the name of his brother , was married to the girl . 
On our way back , De La Cuesta rode out to meet us . 
His company met ours at Agatha dos Palos . 
Never will I forget De La Cuesta's face as his eyes fell upon the girl . 
It was a look , a glance , come and gone like THAT , he snapped his fingers . 
No one but I saw it , but I was close by . 
There was no mistaking that look . 
De La Cuesta was disappointed . 
And the girl ? demanded Presley . 
Ah , he was a grand gentleman , De La Cuesta . 
Always he treated her as a queen . 
Never was husband more devoted , more respectful , more chivalrous . 
But love ? The old fellow put his chin in the air , shutting his eyes in a knowing fashion . 
They were married over again at the Mission San Juan de Guadalajara OUR Mission and for a week all the town of Guadalajara was in fete . 
Ah , those were days . 
That was a gay life . 
This he made a comprehensive gesture with his left hand this is stupid . 
You may well say that , observed Presley moodily , discouraged by the other's talk . 
All his doubts and uncertainty had returned to him . 
Never would he grasp the subject of his great poem . 
To day , the life was colourless . 
He had lived too late . 
To write of the past was not what he desired . 
Reality was what he longed for , things that he had seen . 
Yet how to make this compatible with romance . 
He rose , putting on his hat , offering the old man a cigarette . 
The centenarian accepted with the air of a grandee , and extended his horn snuff box . 
I was born too late for that , he declared , for that , and for many other things . 
You are travelling to day , senor ? A little turn through the country , to get the kinks out of the muscles , Presley answered . 
I go up into the Quien Sabe , into the high country beyond the Mission . 
Ah , the Quien Sabe rancho . 
The sheep are grazing there this week . 
Solotari , the keeper of the restaurant , explained Young Annixter sold his wheat stubble on the ground to the sheep raisers off yonder he motioned eastward toward the Sierra foothills . 
Since Sunday the herd has been down . 
Very clever , that young Annixter . 
He gets a price for his stubble , which else he would have to burn , and also manures his land as the sheep move from place to place . 
A true Yankee , that Annixter , a good gringo . 
In its centre were Annixter's ranch house and barns , topped by the skeleton like tower of the artesian well that was to feed the irrigating ditch . 
Annixter after the two had exchanged greetings complained of terrific colics all the preceding night . 
HE knew prunes were what he needed , and by the pound . 
He looked never a year older than he was . 
He was smooth shaven and lean built . 
But his youthful appearance was offset by a certain male cast of countenance , the lower lip thrust out , the chin large and deeply cleft . 
His university course had hardened rather than polished him . 
He was a ferocious worker , allowing himself no pleasures , and exacting the same degree of energy from all his subordinates . 
He was widely hated , and as widely trusted . 
Every one spoke of his crusty temper and bullying disposition , invariably qualifying the statement with a commendation of his resources and capabilities . 
The devil of a driver , a hard man to get along with , obstinate , contrary , cantankerous but brains ! No doubt of that brains to his boots . 
One would like to see the man who could get ahead of him on a deal . 
At college , he had specialised on finance , political economy , and scientific agriculture . 
he had returned and obtained the degree of civil engineer . 
Then suddenly he had taken a notion that a practical knowledge of law was indispensable to a modern farmer . 
In eight months he did the work of three years , studying for his bar examinations . 
His method of study was characteristic . 
He reduced all the material of his text books to notes . 
At intervals , he drank great cupfuls of unsweetened , black coffee . 
When the bar examinations were held , he was admitted at the very head of all the applicants , and was complimented by the judge . 
He had taken a trip to Europe after this sickness to put himself completely to rights . 
He intended to be gone a year , but returned at the end of six weeks , fulminating abuse of European cooking . 
For Presley , Annixter professed a great admiration , holding in deep respect the man who could rhyme words , deferring to him whenever there was question of literature or works of fiction . 
No doubt , there was not much use in poetry , and as for novels , to his mind , there were only Dickens's works . 
Everything else was a lot of lies . 
But just the same , it took brains to grind out a poem . 
It wasn't every one who could rhyme brave and glaive , and make sense out of it . 
But Presley's case was a notable exception . 
On no occasion was Annixter prepared to accept another man's opinion without reserve . 
In conversation with him , it was almost impossible to make any direct statement , however trivial , that he would accept without either modification or open contradiction . 
He had a passion for violent discussion . 
He would argue upon every subject in the range of human knowledge , from astronomy to the tariff , from the doctrine of predestination to the height of a horse . 
Never would he admit himself to be mistaken when cornered , he would intrench himself behind the remark , Yes , that's all very well . 
In some ways , it is , and then , again , in some ways , it ISN'T . 
Singularly enough , he and Presley were the best of friends . 
More than once , Presley marvelled at this state of affairs , telling himself that he and Annixter had nothing in common . 
In all his circle of acquaintances , Presley was the one man with whom Annixter had never quarrelled . 
The two men were diametrically opposed in temperament . 
Presley was easy going Annixter , alert . 
As a last characteristic , Annixter pretended to be a woman hater , for no other reason than that he was a very bull calf of awkwardness in feminine surroundings . 
Feemales ! Rot ! There was a fine way for a man to waste his time and his good money , lally gagging with a lot of feemales . 
No , thank you none of it in HIS , if you please . 
Once only he had an affair a timid , little creature in a glove cleaning establishment in Sacramento , whom he had picked up , Heaven knew how . 
He furthermore made carbon copies of all his letters , filing them away in a compartment of his safe . 
Ah , it would be a clever feemale who would get him into a mess . 
Then , suddenly smitten with a panic terror that he had committed himself , that he was involving himself too deeply , he had abruptly sent the little woman about her business . 
It was his only love affair . 
After that , he kept himself free . 
No petticoats should ever have a hold on him . 
What are you doing up this way ? he demanded . 
Oh , just having a look around , answered Presley . 
I've heard nothing else myself since morning . 
I suppose it must be so . 
Huh ! grunted Annixter , spitting out a prune stone . 
You give Magnus Derrick my compliments and tell him he's a fool . 
What do you mean ? I suppose Derrick thinks he's still running his mine , and that the same principles will apply to getting grain out of the earth as to getting gold . 
Oh , let him go on and see where he brings up . 
That's right , there's your Western farmer , he exclaimed contemptuously . 
Get the guts out of your land work it to death never give it a rest . 
Never alternate your crop , and then when your soil is exhausted , sit down and roar about hard times . 
I suppose Magnus thinks the land has had rest enough these last two dry seasons , observed Presley . 
He has raised no crop to speak of for two years . 
The land has had a good rest . 
Ah , yes , that sounds well , Annixter contradicted , unwilling to be convinced . 
In a way , the land's been rested , and then , again , in a way , it hasn't . 
But Presley , scenting an argument , refrained from answering , and bethought himself of moving on . 
I'm going to leave my wheel here for a while , Buck , he said , if you don't mind . 
I'm going up to the spring , and the road is rough between here and there . 
Stop in for dinner on your way back , said Annixter . 
There'll be a venison steak . 
One of the boys got a deer over in the foothills last week . 
Out of season , but never mind that . 
This stomach of mine wouldn't digest sweet oil to day . 
Well , maybe I will , thank you , said Presley , moving off . 
By the way , he added , I see your barn is about done . 
You bet , answered Annixter . 
In about a fortnight now she'll be all ready . 
It's a big barn , murmured Presley , glancing around the angle of the house toward where the great structure stood . 
Guess we'll have to have a dance there before we move the stock in , observed Annixter . 
That's the custom all around here . 
They are right off here to the east of the road , about half a mile from here . 
I guess that's the biggest lot of sheep YOU ever saw . 
You might write a poem about 'em . 
Lamb ram sheep graze sunny days . 
Just beyond the Mission , the road bent abruptly eastward , striking off across the Seed ranch . 
But Presley left the road at this point , going on across the open fields . 
There was no longer any trail . 
It was toward three o'clock . 
The sun still spun , a silent , blazing disc , high in the heavens , and tramping through the clods of uneven , broken plough was fatiguing work . 
The slope of the lowest foothills begun , the surface of the country became rolling , and , suddenly , as he topped a higher ridge , Presley came upon the sheep . 
Already he had passed the larger part of the herd an intervening rise of ground having hidden it from sight . 
Now , as he turned half way about , looking down into the shallow hollow between him and the curve of the creek , he saw them very plainly . 
The fringe of the herd was some two hundred yards distant , but its farther side , in that illusive shimmer of hot surface air , seemed miles away . 
But the number seemed incalculable . 
Hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of grey , rounded backs , all exactly alike , huddled , close packed , alive , hid the earth from sight . 
It was no longer an aggregate of individuals . 
All the colours of the scene were sombre the brown of the earth , the faded yellow of the dead stubble , the grey of the myriad of undulating backs . 
For a few moments , Presley stood , watching . 
Then , as he started to move on , a curious thing occurred . 
At first , he thought he had heard some one call his name . 
He paused , listening there was no sound but the vague noise of the moving sheep . 
Then , as this first impression passed , it seemed to him that he had been beckoned to . 
Yet nothing stirred except for the lonely figure beyond the herd there was no one in sight . 
He started on again , and in half a dozen steps found himself looking over his shoulder . 
Without knowing why , he looked toward the shepherd then halted and looked a second time and a third . 
Had the shepherd called to him ? Presley knew that he had heard no voice . 
Brusquely , all his attention seemed riveted upon this distant figure . 
He put one forearm over his eyes , to keep off the sun , gazing across the intervening herd . 
Surely , the shepherd had called him . 
But at the next instant he started , uttering an exclamation under his breath . 
The far away speck of black became animated . 
Presley remarked a sweeping gesture . 
Though the man had not beckoned to him before , there was no doubt that he was beckoning now . 
But the shepherd came forward to meet Presley , followed by one of his dogs . 
As the two men approached each other , Presley , closely studying the other , began to wonder where he had seen him before . 
It must have been a very long time ago , upon one of his previous visits to the ranch . 
Certainly , however , there was something familiar in the shepherd's face and figure . 
When they came closer to each other , and Presley could see him more distinctly , this sense of a previous acquaintance was increased and sharpened . 
The shepherd was a man of about thirty five . 
He was very lean and spare . 
His brown canvas overalls were thrust into laced boots . 
A cartridge belt without any cartridges encircled his waist . 
A grey flannel shirt , open at the throat , showed his breast , tanned and ruddy . 
His hair was very black and rather long . 
A pointed beard covered his chin , growing straight and fine from the hollow cheeks . 
To Presley's morbidly keen observation , the general impression of the shepherd's face was intensely interesting . 
It was uncommon to an astonishing degree . 
Presley's vivid imagination chose to see in it the face of an ascetic , of a recluse , almost that of a young seer . 
Suddenly , at some twenty paces distant from the approaching shepherd , Presley stopped short , his eyes riveted upon the other . 
The shepherd smiled and came forward , holding out his hands , saying , I thought it was you . 
When I saw you come over the hill , I called you . 
But not with your voice , returned Presley . 
I knew that some one wanted me . 
I should have remembered that you could do that kind of thing . 
I have never known it to fail . 
It helps with the sheep . 
With the sheep ? In a way . 
I can't tell exactly how . 
We don't understand these things yet . 
There are times when , if I close my eyes and dig my fists into my temples , I can hold the entire herd for perhaps a minute . 
Perhaps , though , it's imagination , who knows ? But it's good to see you again . 
How long has it been since the last time ? Two , three , nearly five years . 
It was more than that . 
During a week he and Presley had been much together , for the two were devoted friends . 
Then , as abruptly , as mysteriously as he had come , Vanamee disappeared . 
Presley awoke one morning to find him gone . 
Thus , it had been with Vanamee for a period of sixteen years . 
He lived his life in the unknown , one could not tell where in the desert , in the mountains , throughout all the vast and vague South west , solitary , strange . 
Three , four , five years passed . 
The shepherd would be almost forgotten . 
Never the most trivial scrap of information as to his whereabouts reached Los Muertos . 
He had melted off into the surface shimmer of the desert , into the mirage he sank below the horizons he was swallowed up in the waste of sand and sage . 
Then , without warning , he would reappear , coming in from the wilderness , emerging from the unknown . 
No one knew him well . 
In all that countryside he had but three friends , Presley , Magnus Derrick , and the priest at the Mission of San Juan de Guadalajara , Father Sarria . 
He remained always a mystery , living a life half real , half legendary . 
In all those years he did not seem to have grown older by a single day . 
At this time , Presley knew him to be thirty six years of age . 
But since the first day the two had met , the shepherd's face and bearing had , to his eyes , remained the same . 
At this moment , Presley was looking into the same face he had first seen many , many years ago . 
It was a face stamped with an unspeakable sadness , a deathless grief , the permanent imprint of a tragedy long past , but yet a living issue . 
Where have you come from this time ? Presley had asked . 
Where have you kept yourself ? The other swept the horizon to the south and east with a vague gesture . 
Off there , down to the south , very far off . 
So many places that I can't remember . 
I went the Long Trail this time a long , long ways . 
Arizona , The Mexicos , and , then , afterwards , Utah and Nevada , following the horizon , travelling at hazard . 
Then on and on through The Mexicos , all through the Southwest , then back again in a great circle by Chihuahua and Aldama to Laredo , to Torreon , and Albuquerque . 
From there across the Uncompahgre plateau into the Uintah country then at last due west through Nevada to California and to the valley of the San Joaquin . 
He ignored Presley for the moment , but , on the other hand , Presley himself gave him but half his attention . 
The return of Vanamee had stimulated the poet's memory . 
Of a temperament similar in many ways to Presley's , there were capabilities in Vanamee that were not ordinarily to be found in the rank and file of men . 
It was when he was eighteen or nineteen , at the formative and most impressionable period of his life , that he had met Angele Varian . 
Presley barely remembered her as a girl of sixteen , beautiful almost beyond expression , who lived with an aged aunt on the Seed ranch back of the Mission . 
He remembered the Egyptian fulness of the lips , the strange balancing movement of her head upon her slender neck , the same movement that one sees in a snake at poise . 
Never had he seen a girl more radiantly beautiful , never a beauty so strange , so troublous , so out of all accepted standards . 
It was small wonder that Vanamee had loved her , and less wonder , still , that his love had been so intense , so passionate , so part of himself . 
Angele had loved him with a love no less than his own . 
At the time of his meeting with Angele , Vanamee was living on the Los Muertos ranch . 
It was there he had chosen to spend one of his college vacations . 
College bred though he was , the life pleased him . 
He believed in an existence passed in this fashion in the country , working hard , eating full , drinking deep , sleeping dreamlessly . 
But every night , after supper , he saddled his pony and rode over to the garden of the old Mission . 
Through all one summer the enchantment of that new found , wonderful love , pure and untainted , filled the lives of each of them with its sweetness . 
The summer passed , the harvest moon came and went . 
The nights were very dark . 
In the deep shade of the pear trees they could no longer see each other . 
When they met at the rendezvous , Vanamee found her only with his groping hands . 
They did not speak , mere words were useless between them . 
Silently as his reaching hands touched her warm body , he took her in his arms , searching for her lips with his . 
Then one night the tragedy had suddenly leaped from out the shadow with the abruptness of an explosion . 
It was impossible afterwards to reconstruct the manner of its occurrence . 
To Angele's mind what there was left of it the matter always remained a hideous blur , a blot , a vague , terrible confusion . 
No doubt they two had been watched the plan succeeded too well for any other supposition . 
One moonless night , Angele , arriving under the black shadow of the pear trees a little earlier than usual , found the apparently familiar figure waiting for her . 
The whole county rose , raging , horror struck . 
Posse after posse was formed , sent out , and returned , without so much as a clue . 
Upon no one could even the shadow of suspicion be thrown . 
The Other had withdrawn into an impenetrable mystery . 
He never was found he never was so much as heard of . 
Within the year , in giving birth to the child , Angele had died . 
The little babe was taken by Angele's parents , and Angele was buried in the Mission garden near to the aged , grey sun dial . 
Vanamee stood by during the ceremony , but half conscious of what was going forward . 
The last clods were filling the grave at a time when he was already far away , his horse's head turned toward the desert . 
For two years no syllable was heard of him . 
It was believed that he had killed himself . 
But Vanamee had no thought of that . 
For two years he wandered through Arizona , living in the desert , in the wilderness , a recluse , a nomad , an ascetic . 
But , doubtless , all his heart was in the little coffin in the Mission garden . 
Once in so often he must come back thither . 
One day he was seen again in the San Joaquin . 
The priest , Father Sarria , returning from a visit to the sick at Bonneville , met him on the Upper Road . 
Eighteen years had passed since Angele had died , but the thread of Vanamee's life had been snapped . 
Nothing remained now but the tangled ends . 
The long , dull ache , the poignant grief had now become a part of him . 
Presley knew this to be so . 
While Presley had been reflecting upon all this , Vanamee had continued to speak . 
Presley , however , had not been wholly inattentive . 
The music of the unfamiliar names that occurred in his recital was a stimulant to the poet's imagination . 
Presley had the poet's passion for expressive , sonorous names . 
As these came and went in Vanamee's monotonous undertones , like little notes of harmony in a musical progression , he listened , delighted with their resonance . 
Navajo , Quijotoa , Uintah , Sonora , Laredo , Uncompahgre to him they were so many symbols . 
Abruptly his great poem , his Song of the West , leaped up again in his imagination . 
For the moment , he all but held it . 
It was there , close at hand . 
In another instant he would grasp it . 
Yes , yes , he exclaimed , I can see it all . 
The desert , the mountains , all wild , primordial , untamed . 
How I should have loved to have been with you . 
Then , perhaps , I should have got hold of my idea . 
Your idea ? The great poem of the West . 
It's that which I want to write . 
Oh , to put it all into hexameters strike the great iron note sing the vast , terrible song the song of the People the forerunners of empire ! Vanamee understood him perfectly . 
Yes , it is there . 
It is Life , the primitive , simple , direct Life , passionate , tumultuous . 
Yes , there is an epic there . 
Presley caught at the word . 
It had never before occurred to him . 
Epic , yes , that's it . 
It is the epic I'm searching for . 
And HOW I search for it . 
It is sometimes almost an agony . 
Often and often I can feel it right there , there , at my finger tips , but I never quite catch it . 
I was born too late . 
Ah , to get back to that first clear eyed view of things , to see as Homer saw , as Beowulf saw , as the Nibelungen poets saw . 
It is the man who is lacking , the poet we have been educated away from it all . 
We are out of touch . 
We are out of tune . 
Vanamee heard him to the end , his grave , sad face thoughtful and attentive . 
I am going over to the Mission , he said , to see Father Sarria . 
I have not seen him yet . 
How about the sheep ? The dogs will keep them in hand , and I shall not be gone long . 
Besides that , I have a boy here to help . 
He is over yonder on the other side of the herd . 
We can't see him from here . 
Presley wondered at the heedlessness of leaving the sheep so slightly guarded , but made no comment , and the two started off across the field in the direction of the Mission church . 
Well , yes , it is there your epic , observed Vanamee , as they went along . 
As you have done , for instance ? Vanamee nodded . 
No , I could not do that , declared Presley I want to go back , but not so far as you . 
I feel that I must compromise . 
I could not lose myself like that in your desert . 
When its vastness overwhelmed me , or its beauty dazzled me , or its loneliness weighed down upon me , I should have to record my impressions . 
Otherwise , I should suffocate . 
Each to his own life , observed Vanamee . 
A covered colonnade , paved with round , worn bricks , from whence opened the doors of the abandoned cells , once used by the monks , adjoined it on the left . 
The roof was of tiled half cylinders , split longitudinally , and laid in alternate rows , now concave , now convex . 
Beyond the church was the Mission garden and the graveyard that overlooked the Seed ranch in a little hollow beyond . 
The place , but for this noise , was shrouded in a Sunday stillness , an absolute repose . 
Only at intervals , one heard the trickle of the unseen fountain , and the liquid cooing of doves in the garden . 
Father Sarria opened the door . 
He was a small man , somewhat stout , with a smooth and shiny face . 
He wore a frock coat that was rather dirty , slippers , and an old yachting cap of blue cloth , with a broken leather vizor . 
He was smoking a cheap cigar , very fat and black . 
But instantly he recognised Vanamee . 
His face went all alight with pleasure and astonishment . 
He was voluble in his welcome , talking partly in Spanish , partly in English . 
So he had come back again , this great fellow , tanned as an Indian , lean as an Indian , with an Indian's long , black hair . 
But he had not changed , not in the very least . 
His beard had not grown an inch . 
Aha ! The rascal , never to give warning , to drop down , as it were , from out the sky . 
Such a hermit ! To live in the desert ! A veritable Saint Jerome . 
He had made a salad from his own lettuce . 
The two would dine with him , eh ? For this , my son , that was lost is found again . 
Instinctively , he felt that Sarria and Vanamee wanted to talk of things concerning which he was an outsider . 
It was not at all unlikely that Vanamee would spend half the night before the high altar in the church . 
He took himself away , his mind still busy with Vanamee's extraordinary life and character . 
The place was not without its charm . 
Innumerable live oaks overhung the canyon , and Broderson Creek there a mere rivulet , running down from the spring gave a certain coolness to the air . 
It was one of the few spots thereabouts that had survived the dry season of the last year . 
A delightful numbness invaded his mind and his body . 
He was not asleep , he was not awake , stupefied merely , lapsing back to the state of the faun , the satyr . 
Abruptly the drama of the story roused him from all his languor . 
In an instant he was the poet again , his nerves tingling , alive to every sensation , responsive to every impression . 
The desire of creation , of composition , grew big within him . 
Hexameters of his own clamoured , tumultuous , in his brain . 
Not for a long time had he felt his poem , as he called this sensation , so poignantly . 
For an instant he told himself that he actually held it . 
It was , no doubt , Vanamee's talk that had stimulated him to this point . 
The epic defiled before his vision like a pageant . 
Once more , he shot a glance about him , as if in search of the inspiration , and this time he all but found it . 
He rose to his feet , looking out and off below him . 
As from a pinnacle , Presley , from where he now stood , dominated the entire country . 
The sun had begun to set , everything in the range of his vision was overlaid with a sheen of gold . 
Beyond that was the Mission itself , its venerable campanile , in whose arches hung the Spanish King's bells , already glowing ruddy in the sunset . 
Far to the west and north , he saw Bonneville very plain , and the dome of the courthouse , a purple silhouette against the glare of the sky . 
But all this seemed to be only foreground , a mere array of accessories a mass of irrelevant details . 
Near at hand were hills , but on that far southern horizon only the curve of the great earth itself checked the view . 
Adjoining Los Muertos , and widening to the west , opened the Broderson ranch . 
The Osterman ranch to the northwest carried on the great sweep of landscape ranch after ranch . 
Then , as the imagination itself expanded under the stimulus of that measureless range of vision , even those great ranches resolved themselves into mere foreground , mere accessories , irrelevant details . 
The whole gigantic sweep of the San Joaquin expanded , Titanic , before the eye of the mind , flagellated with heat , quivering and shimmering under the sun's red eye . 
At long intervals , a faint breath of wind out of the south passed slowly over the levels of the baked and empty earth , accentuating the silence , marking off the stillness . 
It seemed to exhale from the land itself , a prolonged sigh as of deep fatigue . 
Ha ! there it was , his epic , his inspiration , his West , his thundering progression of hexameters . 
A sudden uplift , a sense of exhilaration , of physical exaltation appeared abruptly to sweep Presley from his feet . 
As from a point high above the world , he seemed to dominate a universe , a whole order of things . 
He was dizzied , stunned , stupefied , his morbid supersensitive mind reeling , drunk with the intoxication of mere immensity . 
Stupendous ideas for which there were no names drove headlong through his brain . 
Terrible , formless shapes , vague figures , gigantic , monstrous , distorted , whirled at a gallop through his imagination . 
He tramped steadily on through the wheat stubble , walking fast , his head in a whirl . 
Never had he so nearly grasped his inspiration as at that moment on the hilltop . 
Even now , though the sunset was fading , though the wide reach of valley was shut from sight , it still kept him company . 
Now the details came thronging back the component parts of his poem , the signs and symbols of the West . 
It was there , close at hand , he had been in touch with it all day . 
Abruptly , as if in confirmation , Presley heard the sound of a bell from the direction of the Mission itself . 
By now , however , it was dark . 
He came to the line fence of the Quien Sabe ranch . 
The stars were all out . 
There was not a sound other than the de Profundis , still sounding from very far away . 
At long intervals the great earth sighed dreamily in its sleep . 
All about , the feeling of absolute peace and quiet and security and untroubled happiness and content seemed descending from the stars like a benediction . 
The beauty of his poem , its idyl , came to him like a caress that alone had been lacking . 
It was that , perhaps , which had left it hitherto incomplete . 
At last he was to grasp his song in all its entity . 
But suddenly there was an interruption . 
Presley had climbed the fence at the limit of the Quien Sabe ranch . 
Beyond was Los Muertos , but between the two ran the railroad . 
All at once this ceased . 
Prolonged cries of agony , sobbing wails of infinite pain , heart rending , pitiful . 
The noises came from a little distance . 
In some way , the herd of sheep Vanamee's herd had found a breach in the wire fence by the right of way and had wandered out upon the tracks . 
A band had been crossing just at the moment of the engine's passage . 
The pathos of it was beyond expression . 
It was a slaughter , a massacre of innocents . 
The iron monster had charged full into the midst , merciless , inexorable . 
To the right and left , all the width of the right of way , the little bodies had been flung backs were snapped against the fence posts brains knocked out . 
Caught in the barbs of the wire , wedged in , the bodies hung suspended . 
Under foot it was terrible . 
The black blood , winking in the starlight , seeped down into the clinkers between the ties with a prolonged sucking murmur . 
Presley turned away , horror struck , sick at heart , overwhelmed with a quick burst of irresistible compassion for this brute agony he could not relieve . 
The sweetness was gone from the evening , the sense of peace , of security , and placid contentment was stricken from the landscape . 
The hideous ruin in the engine's path drove all thought of his poem from his mind . 
The inspiration vanished like a mist . 
The de Profundis had ceased to ring . 
He hurried on across the Los Muertos ranch , almost running , even putting his hands over his ears till he was out of hearing distance of that all but human distress . 
Not until he was beyond ear shot did he pause , looking back , listening . 
The night had shut down again . 
For a moment the silence was profound , unbroken . 
Then , faint and prolonged , across the levels of the ranch , he heard the engine whistling for Bonneville . 
He scented a hard day's work ahead of him , and was anxious to be at it betimes . 
For the last three weeks little had been done . 
The crop such as it was had been harvested and sold , and there had been a general relaxation of activity for upwards of a month . 
Two days before this , Harran had notified his superintendents on Three and Four to send in such grain as they had reserved for seed . 
It was Harran's intention to commence blue stoning his seed that day , a delicate and important process which prevented rust and smut appearing in the crop when the wheat should come up . 
But , furthermore , he wanted to find time to go to Guadalajara to meet the Governor on the morning train . 
His day promised to be busy . 
I thought I'd speak to you about the seed from Four , sir , he said . 
That hasn't been brought in yet . 
Put them in the buggy . 
The bays , you understand . 
The office was the nerve centre of the entire ten thousand acres of Los Muertos , but its appearance and furnishings were not in the least suggestive of a farm . 
But , no doubt , the most significant object in the office was the ticker . 
At such moments they no longer felt their individuality . 
Harran crossed over to the telephone and rang six bells , the call for the division house on Four . 
By the road it was eleven miles distant from the office , and by the trail to Hooven's and the Lower Road all of nine . 
How about that seed ? demanded Harran when he had got Cutter on the line . 
The other made excuses for an unavoidable delay , and was adding that he was on the point of starting out , when Harran cut in with You had better go the trail . 
It will save a little time and I am in a hurry . 
Put your sacks on the horses' backs . 
See how they are getting along there and if Billy wants anything . 
Tell him we are expecting those new scoops down to morrow or next day and to get along with what he has until then . 
How's everything on Four ? . 
Give your seed to Phelps when you get here if I am not about . 
I am going to Guadalajara to meet the Governor . 
He's coming down to day . 
And that makes me think we lost the case , you know . 
I had a letter from the Governor yesterday . 
S. Behrman did us up . 
Well , good bye , and don't lose any time with that seed . 
I want to blue stone to day . 
After telephoning Cutter , Harran put on his hat , went over to the barns , and found Phelps . 
Phelps had already cleaned out the vat which was to contain the solution of blue stone , and was now at work regrading the seed . 
Against the wall behind him ranged the row of sacks . 
The seed was all of the white varieties of wheat and of a very high grade , the berries hard and heavy , rigid and swollen with starch . 
If it was all like that , sir , hey ? observed Phelps . 
Harran put his chin in the air . 
Bread would be as good as cake , then , he answered , going from sack to sack , inspecting the contents and consulting the tags affixed to the mouths . 
Hello , he remarked , here's a red wheat . 
Where did this come from ? That's that red Clawson we sowed to the piece on Four , north the Mission Creek , just to see how it would do here . 
We didn't get a very good catch . 
We can't do better than to stay by White Sonora and Propo , remarked Harran . 
We've got our best results with that , and European millers like it to mix with the Eastern wheats that have more gluten than ours . 
That is , if we have any wheat at all next year . 
A feeling of discouragement for the moment bore down heavily upon him . 
At intervals this came to him and for the moment it was overpowering . 
The idea of what's the use was upon occasion a veritable oppression . 
Everything seemed to combine to lower the price of wheat . 
The extension of wheat areas always exceeded increase of population competition was growing fiercer every year . 
The farmer's profits were the object of attack from a score of different quarters . 
Steadily the Liverpool buyers cut and cut and cut . 
Everything , every element of the world's markets , tended to force down the price to the lowest possible figure at which it could be profitably farmed . 
Now it was down to eighty seven . 
So narrow had the margin of profit shrunk that a dry season meant bankruptcy to the smaller farmers throughout all the valley . 
He knew very well how widespread had been the distress the last two years . 
With their own tenants on Los Muertos , affairs had reached the stage of desperation . 
Derrick had practically been obliged to carry Hooven and some of the others . 
The Governor himself had made almost nothing during the last season a third year like the last , with the price steadily sagging , meant nothing else but ruin . 
But here he checked himself . 
Two consecutive dry seasons in California were almost unprecedented a third would be beyond belief , and the complete rest for nearly all the land was a compensation . 
They had made no money , that was true but they had lost none . 
Thank God , the homestead was free of mortgage one good season would more than make up the difference . 
This lawn flanked all one side of the house , and it was on this side that the family elected to spend most of its time . 
The other side , looking out upon the Home ranch toward Bonneville and the railroad , was but little used . 
To the left of the ranch house itself , toward the County Road , was the bunk house and kitchen for some of the hands . 
From the steps of the porch the view to the southward expanded to infinity . 
There was not so much as a twig to obstruct the view . 
In one leap the eye reached the fine , delicate line where earth and sky met , miles away . 
Cutter's house on Four was not even in sight . 
That was below the horizon . 
As Harran came up he saw his mother at breakfast . 
The table had been set on the porch and Mrs. Derrick , stirring her coffee with one hand , held open with the other the pages of Walter Pater's Marius . 
Harran kissed his mother and sat down in a wicker chair on the porch , removing his hat , running his fingers through his yellow hair . 
Magnus Derrick's wife looked hardly old enough to be the mother of two such big fellows as Harran and Lyman Derrick . 
She was not far into the fifties , and her brown hair still retained much of its brightness . 
She could yet be called pretty . 
Her eyes were large and easily assumed a look of inquiry and innocence , such as one might expect to see in a young girl . 
By disposition she was retiring she easily obliterated herself . 
She was not made for the harshness of the world , and yet she had known these harshnesses in her younger days . 
She overworked herself here continually , loathing the strain of teaching , yet clinging to it with a tenacity born of the knowledge that it was her only means of support . 
Both her parents were dead she was dependent upon herself . 
Her one ambition was to see Italy and the Bay of Naples . 
The Marble Faun , Raphael's Madonnas and Il Trovatore were her beau ideals of literature and art . 
She dreamed of Italy , Rome , Naples , and the world's great art centres . 
She had followed his fortunes unquestioningly . 
She had lived here now for nearly ten years . 
But never for one moment since the time her glance first lost itself in the unbroken immensity of the ranches had she known a moment's content . 
Continually there came into her pretty , wide open eyes the eyes of a young doe a look of uneasiness , of distrust , and aversion . 
To her mind there was something inordinate about it all something almost unnatural . 
The direct brutality of ten thousand acres of wheat , nothing but wheat as far as the eye could see , stunned her a little . 
The one time writing teacher of a young ladies' seminary , with her pretty deer like eyes and delicate fingers , shrank from it . 
She did not want to look at so much wheat . 
The monotony of the ranch ate into her heart hour by hour , year by year . 
And with it all , when was she to see Rome , Italy , and the Bay of Naples ? It was a different prospect truly . 
Magnus had given her his promise that once the ranch was well established , they two should travel . 
She obliterated herself , only allowing , from time to time , her pretty , questioning eyes to meet his . 
In the meantime she retired within herself . 
She surrounded herself with books . 
Her taste was of the delicacy of point lace . 
She knew her Austin Dobson by heart . 
She read poems , essays , the ideas of the seminary at Marysville persisting in her mind . 
When Presley had appeared on Los Muertos , she had welcomed his arrival with delight . 
Here at last was a congenial spirit . 
She looked forward to long conversations with the young man on literature , art , and ethics . 
But Presley had disappointed her . 
That he outside of his few chosen deities should care little for literature , shocked her beyond words . 
His indifference to style , to elegant English , was a positive affront . 
His savage abuse and open ridicule of the neatly phrased rondeaux and sestinas and chansonettes of the little magazines was to her mind a wanton and uncalled for cruelty . 
She found his Homer , with its slaughters and hecatombs and barbaric feastings and headstrong passions , violent and coarse . 
She could not see with him any romance , any poetry in the life around her she looked to Italy for that . 
But , Presley , she had murmured , that is not literature . 
No , he had cried between his teeth , no , thank God , it is not . 
There was a certain indefinite cast to the landscape that to Harran's eye was not to be mistaken . 
Rain , the first of the season , was not far off . 
That's good , he muttered , touching the bays with the whip , we can't get our ploughs to hand any too soon . 
However , there had been exasperating and unexpected delays in their shipment . 
Now there was likelihood of rain within the week . 
Ploughing could be undertaken immediately afterward , so soon as the ground was softened , but there was a fair chance that the ranch would lie idle for want of proper machinery . 
It was ten minutes before train time when Harran reached the depot at Guadalajara . 
The San Francisco papers of the preceding day had arrived on an earlier train . 
He bought a couple from the station agent and looked them over till a distant and prolonged whistle announced the approach of the down train . 
In one of the four passengers that alighted from the train , he recognised his father . 
He half rose in his seat , whistling shrilly between his teeth , waving his hand , and Magnus Derrick , catching sight of him , came forward quickly . 
Magnus the Governor was all of six feet tall , and though now well toward his sixtieth year , was as erect as an officer of cavalry . 
He was broad in proportion , a fine commanding figure , imposing an immediate respect , impressing one with a sense of gravity , of dignity and a certain pride of race . 
His hair was thick and iron grey , and had a tendency to curl in a forward direction just in front of his ears . 
He wore a top hat of grey , with a wide brim , and a frock coat , and carried a cane with a yellowed ivory head . 
As a young man it had been his ambition to represent his native State North Carolina in the United States Senate . 
Calhoun was his great man , but in two successive campaigns he had been defeated . 
His career checked in this direction , he had come to California in the fifties . 
Once he had been put forward as the Democratic candidate for governor , but failed of election . 
After this Magnus had definitely abandoned politics and had invested all his money in the Corpus Christi mines . 
Practically it amounted to a discovery . 
Glenn's first harvest of wheat in Colusa County , quietly undertaken but suddenly realised with dramatic abruptness , gave a new matter for reflection to the thinking men of the New West . 
California suddenly leaped unheralded into the world's market as a competitor in wheat production . 
Wherever he had gone , Magnus had taken his family with him . 
Lyman had been born at Sacramento during the turmoil and excitement of Derrick's campaign for governor , and Harran at Shingle Springs , in El Dorado County , six years later . 
But Magnus was in every sense the prominent man . 
In whatever circle he moved he was the chief figure . 
Instinctively other men looked to him as the leader . 
He himself was proud of this distinction he assumed the grand manner very easily and carried it well . 
As a public speaker he was one of the last of the followers of the old school of orators . 
He even carried the diction and manner of the rostrum into private life . 
It was said of him that his most colloquial conversation could be taken down in shorthand and read off as an admirable specimen of pure , well chosen English . 
He loved to do things upon a grand scale , to preside , to dominate . 
In his good humour there was something Jovian . 
When angry , everybody around him trembled . 
But he had not the genius for detail , was not patient . 
The certain grandiose lavishness of his disposition occupied itself more with results than with means . 
He was always ready to take chances , to hazard everything on the hopes of colossal returns . 
In the mining days at Placerville there was no more redoubtable poker player in the county . 
He had been as lucky in his mines as in his gambling , sinking shafts and tunnelling in violation of expert theory and finding pay in every case . 
Without knowing it , he allowed himself to work his ranch much as if he was still working his mine . 
The old time spirit of , hap hazard , unscientific , persisted in his mind . 
Everything was a gamble who took the greatest chances was most apt to be the greatest winner . 
The idea of manuring Los Muertos , of husbanding his great resources , he would have scouted as niggardly , Hebraic , ungenerous . 
Magnus climbed into the buggy , helping himself with Harran's outstretched hand which he still held . 
The two were immensely fond of each other , proud of each other . 
They were constantly together and Magnus kept no secrets from his favourite son . 
I am very pleased you came yourself , Harran . 
I feared that you might be too busy and send Phelps . 
Harran was ahout to reply , but at that moment Magnus caught sight of the three flat cars loaded with bright painted farming machines which still remained on the siding above the station . 
He laid his hands on the reins and Harran checked the team . 
Harran , observed Magnus , fixing the machinery with a judicial frown , Harran , those look singularly like our ploughs . 
The train had by this time gone on its way and Harran brought the team up to the siding . 
Ah , I was right , said the Governor . 
'Magnus Derrick , Los Muertos , Bonneville , from Ditson Co . 
These are ours , boy . 
Harran breathed a sigh of relief . 
At last , he answered , and just in time , too . 
We'll have rain before the week is out . 
I think , now that I am here , I will telephone Phelps to send the wagon right down for these . 
I started blue stoning to day . 
Magnus nodded a grave approval . 
That was shrewd , boy . 
As to the rain , I think you are well informed we will have an early season . 
The ploughs have arrived at a happy moment . 
It means money to us , Governor , remarked Harran . 
Harran's eyes flashed on the instant and through his nostrils he drew a sharp , quick breath , while a certain rigour of carriage stiffened the set of Magnus Derrick's shoulders and back . 
Magnus had not yet got into the buggy , but stood with the team between him and S. Behrman , eyeing him calmly across the horses' backs . 
S. Behrman came around to the other side of the buggy and faced Magnus . 
He wore a heavy black moustache . 
On his head was a round topped hat of stiff brown straw , highly varnished . 
S. Behrman was the banker of Bonneville . 
But besides this he was many other things . 
He was a real estate agent . 
He bought grain he dealt in mortgages . 
He was one of the local political bosses , but more important than all this , he was the representative of the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad in that section of Tulare County . 
He had returned to Bonneville only recently , a decision adverse to the ranchers being foreseen . 
But for all that , the ranchers about Bonneville knew whom to look to as a source of trouble . 
There was no denying the fact that for Osterman , Broderson , Annixter and Derrick , S. Behrman was the railroad . 
Mr. Derrick , good morning , he cried as he came up . 
Glad to see you back , Mr. Derrick . 
He held out a thick hand . 
Magnus , head and shoulders above the other , tall , thin , erect , looked down upon S. Behrman , inclining his head , failing to see his extended hand . 
Good morning , sir , he observed , and waited for S. Behrman's further speech . 
Well , Mr. Derrick , continued S. Behrman , wiping the back of his neck with his handkerchief , I saw in the city papers yesterday that our case had gone against you . 
I guess it wasn't any great news to YOU , commented Harran , his face scarlet . 
I guess you knew which way Ulsteen was going to jump after your very first interview with him . 
You don't like to be surprised in this sort of thing , S. Behrman . 
Now , you know better than that , Harran , remonstrated S. Behrman blandly . 
I know what you mean to imply , but I ain't going to let it make me get mad . 
Your side made a good fight , but it was in a mistaken cause . 
Why , you could have figured out before you ever went into the case that such rates are confiscation of property . 
You must allow us must allow the railroad a fair interest on the investment . 
Whether Ulsteen is a tool of yours or not , he had to put the rates back to what they were originally . 
The lowest rates , continued S. Behrman , that the legislature can establish must be such as will secure us a fair interest on our investment . 
Well , what's your standard ? Come , let's hear it . 
Who is to say what's a fair rate ? The railroad has its own notions of fairness sometimes . 
The laws of the State , returned S. Behrman , fix the rate of interest at seven per cent . 
That's a good enough standard for us . 
There is no reason , Mr. Harran , why a dollar invested in a railroad should not earn as much as a dollar represented by a promissory note seven per cent . 
By applying your schedule of rates we would not earn a cent we would be bankrupt . 
Interest on your investment ! cried Harran , furious . 
It's fine to talk about fair interest . 
I know and you know that the total earnings of the P. and S. W. their main , branch and leased lines for last year was between nineteen and twenty millions of dollars . 
Do you mean to say that twenty million dollars is seven per cent . 
of the original cost of the road ? S. Behrman spread out his hands , smiling . 
It makes a difference , S. Behrman , on which of these two figures you are basing your seven per cent . 
That all may show obstinacy , Harran , observed S. Behrman vaguely , but it don't show common sense . 
We are threshing out old straw , I believe , gentlemen , remarked Magnus . 
The question was thoroughly sifted in the courts . 
Quite right , assented S. Behrman . 
The best way is that the railroad and the farmer understand each other and get along peaceably . 
We are both dependent on each other . 
Your ploughs , I believe , Mr. Derrick . 
S. Behrman nodded toward the flat cars . 
They are consigned to me , admitted Magnus . 
It looks a trifle like rain , observed S. Behrman , easing his neck and jowl in his limp collar . 
I suppose you will want to begin ploughing next week . 
I'll see that your ploughs are hurried through for you then , Mr. Derrick . 
We will route them by fast freight for you and it won't cost you anything extra . 
What do you mean ? demanded Harran . 
We have nothing more to do with the railroad . 
I am going to have my wagons down here this afternoon . 
I am sorry , answered S. Behrman , but the cars are going north , not , as you thought , coming FROM the north . 
They have not been to San Francisco yet . 
Magnus made a slight movement of the head as one who remembers a fact hitherto forgotten . 
But Harran was as yet unenlightened . 
To San Francisco ! he answered , we want them here what are you talking about ? Well , you know , of course , the regulations , answered S. Behrman . 
Freight of this kind coming from the Eastern points into the State must go first to one of our common points and be reshipped from there . 
Harran did remember now , but never before had the matter so struck home . 
He leaned back in his seat in dumb amazement for the instant . 
Even Magnus had turned a little pale . 
Then , abruptly , Harran broke out violent and raging . 
Here we bring our ploughs from the East over your lines , but you're not content with your long haul rate between Eastern points and Bonneville . 
You want to get us under your ruinous short haul rate between Bonneville and San Francisco , AND RETURN . 
And we have to pay it all or go without . 
Here are the ploughs right here , in sight of the land they have got to be used on , the season just ready for them , and we can't touch them . 
It don't do any good to let loose like that , Harran , he said at length . 
I am willing to do what I can for you . 
I'll hurry the ploughs through , but I can't change the freight regulation of the road . 
What's your blackmail for this ? vociferated Harran . 
I see you are trying to make me angry , Harran , returned S. Behrman , but you won't succeed . 
Better give up trying , my boy . 
As I said , the best way is to have the railroad and the farmer get along amicably . 
It is the only way we can do business . 
Well , s'long , Governor , I must trot along . 
But before leaving Guadalajara Magnus dropped into the town's small grocery store to purchase a box of cigars of a certain Mexican brand , unprocurable elsewhere . 
Harran remained in the buggy . 
While he waited , Dyke appeared at the end of the street , and , seeing Derrick's younger son , came over to shake hands with him . 
He explained his affair with the P. and S. W. , and asked the young man what he thought of the expected rise in the price of hops . 
Hops ought to be a good thing , Harran told him . 
They ought to go to a dollar next year . 
Sure , hops ought to be a good thing . 
How's the old lady and Sidney , Dyke ? Why , fairly well , thank you , Harran . 
They're up to Sacramento just now to see my brother . 
I was thinking of going in with my brother into this hop business . 
But I had a letter from him this morning . 
He may not be able to meet me on this proposition . 
He's got other business on hand . 
If he pulls out and he probably will I'll have to go it alone , but I'll have to borrow . 
I had thought with his money and mine we would have enough to pull off the affair without mortgaging anything . 
As it is , I guess I'll have to see S. Behrman . 
I'll be cursed if I would ! exclaimed Harran . 
I guess we'll try it on , Harran . 
I can get a good foreman that knows all about hops just now , and if the deal pays well , I want to send Sid to a seminary up in San Francisco . 
Well , mortgage the crops , but don't mortgage the homestead , Dyke , said Harran . 
You be sure to have a clear understanding with the railroad first about the rate , Harran warned him . 
When Magnus came out of the grocery store and once more seated himself in the buggy , he said to Harran , Boy , drive over here to Annixter's before we start home . 
I want to ask him to dine with us to night . 
Osterman and Broderson are to drop in , I believe , and I should like to have Annixter as well . 
Los Muertos's doors invariably stood open to all the Derricks' neighbours , and once in so often Magnus had a few of his intimates to dinner . 
As Harran and his father drove along the road toward Annixter's ranch house , Magnus asked about what had happened during his absence . 
He inquired after his wife and the ranch , commenting upon the work on the irrigating ditch . 
It needed only Harran's recommendation that the German should remain to have Magnus consent upon the instant . 
You know more about it than I , boy , he said , and whatever you think is wise shall be done . 
Harran touched the bays with the whip , urging them to their briskest pace . 
They were not yet at Annixter's and he was anxious to get back to the ranch house to supervise the blue stoning of his seed . 
By the way , Governor , he demanded suddenly , how is Lyman getting on ? Lyman , Magnus's eldest son , had never taken kindly toward ranch life . 
He resembled his mother more than he did Magnus , and had inherited from her a distaste for agriculture and a tendency toward a profession . 
At a time when Harran was learning the rudiments of farming , Lyman was entering the State University , and , graduating thence , had spent three years in the study of law . 
But later on , traits that were particularly his father's developed . 
But with these small achievements he was by no means satisfied . 
The largeness of his father's character , modified in Lyman by a counter influence of selfishness , had produced in him an inordinate ambition . 
Where his father during his political career had considered himself only as an exponent of principles he strove to apply , Lyman saw but the office , his own personal aggrandisement . 
He belonged to the new school , wherein objects were attained not by orations before senates and assemblies , but by sessions of committees , caucuses , compromises and expedients . 
His goal was to be in fact what Magnus was only in name governor . 
Lyman , with shut teeth , had resolved that some day he would sit in the gubernatorial chair in Sacramento . 
Lyman is doing well , answered Magnus . 
I could wish he was more pronounced in his convictions , less willing to compromise , but I believe him to be earnest and to have a talent for government and civics . 
But I am not afraid . 
The time will come when the State will be proud of him . 
He will be glad to come , I know , but if you seem to want him too much , it is just like his confounded obstinacy to make objections . 
There is something in that , observed Magnus , as Harran drew up at the porch of the house . 
He is a queer , cross grained fellow , but in many ways sterling . 
Annixter was lying in the hammock on the porch , precisely as Presley had found him the day before , reading David Copperfield and stuffing himself with dried prunes . 
When he recognised Magnus , however , he got up , though careful to give evidence of the most poignant discomfort . 
He explained his difficulty at great length , protesting that his stomach was no better than a spongebag . 
Would Magnus and Harran get down and have a drink ? There was whiskey somewhere about . 
Magnus , however , declined . 
He stated his errand , asking Annixter to come over to Los Muertos that evening for seven o'clock dinner . 
Osterman and Broderson would be there . 
At once Annixter , even to Harran's surprise , put his chin in the air , making excuses , fearing to compromise himself if he accepted too readily . 
No , he did not think he could get around was sure of it , in fact . 
There were certain businesses he had on hand that evening . 
No , they must get along without him . 
Magnus , knowing with whom he had to deal , did not urge the point , being convinced that Annixter would argue over the affair the rest of the morning . 
He re settled himself in the buggy and Harran gathered up the reins . 
Well , he observed , you know your business best . 
I hear you are going to farm the whole of Los Muertos this season , remarked Annixter , with a certain note of challenge in his voice . 
We are thinking of it , replied Magnus . 
Did you get the message I sent you by Presley ? he began . 
Tactless , blunt , and direct , Annixter was quite capable of calling even Magnus a fool to his face . 
But before he could proceed , S. Behrman in his single buggy turned into the gate , and driving leisurely up to the porch halted on the other side of Magnus's team . 
Good morning , gentlemen , he remarked , nodding to the two Derricks as though he had not seen them earlier in the day . 
Mr. Annixter , how do you do ? What in hell do YOU want ? demanded Annixter with a stare . 
S. Behrman hiccoughed slightly and passed a fat hand over his waistcoat . 
The sheep were all over the track last night , this side the Long Trestle , and I am afraid they have seriously disturbed our ballast along there . 
We the railroad can't fence along our right of way . 
The farmers have the prescriptive right of that , so we have to look to you to keep your fence in repair . 
He thrust out his jaw aggressively , clenching his teeth . 
You , he vociferated , I'll tell you what you are . 
You're a a a PIP ! To his mind it was the last insult , the most outrageous calumny . 
He had no worse epithet at his command . 
may show obstinacy , pursued S. Behrman , bent upon finishing the phrase , but it don't show common sense . 
I'll mend my fence , and then , again , maybe I won't mend my fence , shouted Annixter . 
I know what you mean that wild engine last night . 
Well , you've no right to run at that speed in the town limits . 
How the town limits ? The sheep were this side the Long Trestle . 
Well , that's in the town limits of Guadalajara . 
Why , Mr. Annixter , the Long Trestle is a good two miles out of Guadalajara . 
Annixter squared himself , leaping to the chance of an argument . 
Two miles ! It's not a mile and a quarter . 
No , it's not a mile . 
I'll leave it to Magnus here . 
Oh , I know nothing about it , declared Magnus , refusing to be involved . 
Yes , you do , too . 
Any fool knows how far it is from Guadalajara to the Long Trestle . 
It's about five eighths of a mile . 
From the depot of the town , remarked S. Behrman placidly , to the head of the Long Trestle is about two miles . 
That's a lie and you know it's a lie , shouted the other , furious at S. Behrman's calmness , and I can prove it's a lie . 
When at length S. Behrman as well took himself away , Annixter returned to his hammock , finished the rest of his prunes and read another chapter of Copperfield . 
Then he put the book , open , over his face and went to sleep . 
An hour later , toward noon , his own terrific snoring woke him up suddenly , and he sat up , rubbing his face and blinking at the sunlight . 
As he did so , an idea occurred to him . 
He wondered if Hilma Tree would bring up his dinner and wait on the table while he ate it . 
In connection with his ranch , Annixter ran a dairy farm on a very small scale , making just enough butter and cheese for the consumption of the ranch's PERSONNEL . 
Old man Tree , his wife , and his daughter Hilma looked after the dairy . 
But there was not always work enough to keep the three of them occupied and Hilma at times made herself useful in other ways . 
For the last summer she had been away visiting with relatives in one of the towns on the coast . 
Annixter had carried away with him a clear cut recollection of these smooth white arms of hers , bare to the shoulder , very round and cool and fresh . 
He would not have believed that a girl so young should have had arms so big and perfect . 
He had had his experience with the timid little creature in the glove cleaning establishment in Sacramento . 
Feemales ! Rot ! None of them in HIS , thank you . 
HE had seen Hilma Tree give him a look in the dairy . 
Aha , he saw through her ! She was trying to get a hold on him , was she ? He would show her . 
Wait till he saw her again . 
He would send her about her business in a hurry . 
While true to his convictions as a woman hater and genuinely despising Hilma both as a girl and as an inferior , the idea of her worried him . 
Most of all , he was angry with himself because of his inane sheepishness when she was about . 
Certainly he had not the remotest idea of any affection , but Hilma was a fine looking girl . 
He imagined an affair with her . 
That meant that Hilma would take her place . 
He turned to the mirror of the sideboard , scrutinising his reflection with grim disfavour . 
He crossed over into his bedroom and peeped around the edge of the lowered curtain . 
The window looked out upon the skeleton like tower of the artesian well and the cook house and dairy house close beside it . 
As he watched , he saw Hilma come out from the cook house and hurry across toward the kitchen . 
Evidently , she was going to see about his dinner . 
No doubt , he had been mending the break in the line fence by the Long Trestle . 
Annixter saw him take off his wide brimmed hat as he met Hilma , and the two stood there for some moments talking together . 
Annixter even heard Hilma laughing very gayly at something Delaney was saying . 
She patted his horse's neck affectionately , and Delaney , drawing the nippers from his belt , made as if to pinch her arm with them . 
She caught at his wrist and pushed him away , laughing again . 
To Annixter's mind the pair seemed astonishingly intimate . 
Brusquely his anger flamed up . 
Ah , that was it , was it ? Delaney and Hilma had an understanding between themselves . 
They carried on their affair right out there in the open , under his very eyes . 
Had they no sense of decency , those two ? Well , this ended it . 
He would stop that sort of thing short off none of that on HIS ranch if he knew it . 
He would pack that girl off before he was a day older . 
He wouldn't have that kind about the place . 
Not much ! She'd have to get out . 
He would talk to old man Tree about it this afternoon . 
Whatever happened , HE insisted upon morality . 
And my dinner ! he suddenly exclaimed . 
I've got to wait and go hungry and maybe get sick again while they carry on their disgusting love making . 
He turned about on the instant , and striding over to the electric bell , rang it again with all his might . 
When that feemale gets up here , he declared , I'll just find out why I've got to wait like this . 
I'll take her down , to the Queen's taste . 
I'm lenient enough , Lord knows , but I don't propose to be imposed upon ALL the time . 
A few moments later , while Annixter was pretending to read the county newspaper by the window in the dining room , Hilma came in to set the table . 
Over the top of the paper he glanced at her covertly from time to time . 
Though Hilma was only nineteen years old , she was a large girl with all the development of a much older woman . 
She was , one knew at a glance , warm blooded , full blooded , with an even , comfortable balance of temperament . 
This colour on her temples was just touched with a certain blueness where the flesh was thin over the fine veining underneath . 
While these lashes were not long , they were thick and rimmed her eyes with a fine , thin line . 
Deep in between the coils and braids it was of a bitumen brownness , but in the sunlight it vibrated with a sheen like tarnished gold . 
Almost unconsciously she dressed in harmony with this note of simplicity , and on this occasion wore a skirt of plain dark blue calico and a white shirt waist crisp from the laundry . 
And yet , for all the dignity of this rigourous simplicity , there were about Hilma small contradictory suggestions of feminine daintiness , charming beyond words . 
She was on the ranch more for the sake of being with her parents than from any necessity of employment . 
It was the original , intended and natural delicacy of an elemental existence , close to nature , close to life , close to the great , kindly earth . 
Oh , it's you , is it , Miss Hilma ? he remarked , for the sake of saying something . 
How do you do ? Good morning , sir , she answered , looking up , resting for a moment on her outspread palms . 
I hope you are better . 
Her voice was low in pitch and of a velvety huskiness , seeming to come more from her chest than from her throat . 
Well , I'm some better , growled Annixter . 
Annixter had no particular interest in the dog . 
For weeks at a time he ignored its existence . 
It was not his dog . 
But to day it seemed as if he could not let the subject rest . 
For no reason that he could explain even to himself , he recurred to it continually . 
He questioned Hilma minutely all about the dog . 
If that dog turns up again you let me know . 
Annixter returned to the dining room and sat down in the chair he had just vacated . 
To hell with the dog ! he muttered , enraged , he could not tell why . 
But the barometer suggested the present condition of the weather and the likelihood of rain . 
In such case , much was to be done in the way of getting the seed ready and overhauling his ploughs and drills . 
He had not been away from the house in two days . 
It was time to be up and doing . 
He determined to put in the afternoon taking a look around , and have a late supper . 
He would not go to Los Muertos he would ignore Magnus Derrick's invitation . 
Possibly , though , it might be well to run over and see what was up . 
If I do , he said to himself , I'll ride the buckskin . 
The buckskin was a half broken broncho that fought like a fiend under the saddle until the quirt and spur brought her to her senses . 
Huh ! grunted Annixter under his breath , I should like to see that fool Delaney try to bust that bronch . 
That's what I'D like to see . 
Evidently the expected rain was close at hand . 
Annixter crossed over to the stables reflecting that he could ride the buckskin to the Trees' cottage and tell Hilma that he would not be home to supper . 
The conference at Los Muertos would be an admirable excuse for this , and upon the spot he resolved to go over to the Derrick ranch house , after all . 
As he passed the Trees' cottage , he observed with satisfaction that Hilma was going to and fro in the front room . 
If he busted the buckskin in the yard before the stable she could not help but see . 
Annixter found the stableman in the back of the barn greasing the axles of the buggy , and ordered him to put the saddle on the buckskin . 
Why , I don't think she's here , sir , answered the stableman , glancing into the stalls . 
No , I remember now . 
Delaney took her out just after dinner . 
His other horse went lame and he wanted to go down by the Long Trestle to mend the fence . 
He started out , but had to come back . 
Oh , Delaney got her , did he ? Yes , sir . 
He had a circus with her , but he busted her right enough . 
When it comes to horse , Delaney can wipe the eye of any cow puncher in the county , I guess . 
He can , can he ? observed Annixter . 
Then after a silence , Well , all right , Billy put my saddle on whatever you've got here . 
I'm going over to Los Muertos this afternoon . 
Want to look out for the rain , Mr. Annixter , remarked Billy . 
Guess we'll have rain before night . 
I'll take a rubber coat , answered Annixter . 
Bring the horse up to the ranch house when you're ready . 
Annixter returned to the house to look for his rubber coat in deep disgust , not permitting himself to glance toward the dairy house and the Trees' cottage . 
But as he reached the porch he heard the telephone ringing his call . 
It was Presley , who rang up from Los Muertos . 
He had heard from Harran that Annixter was , perhaps , coming over that evening . 
If he came , would he mind bringing over his Presley's bicycle . 
He had left it at the Quien Sabe ranch the day before and had forgotten to come back that way for it . 
Well , objected Annixter , a surly note in his voice , I WAS going to RIDE over . 
Oh , never mind , then , returned Presley easily . 
I was to blame for forgetting it . 
I'll come over some of these days and get it myself . 
Annixter hung up the transmitter with a vehement wrench and stamped out of the room , banging the door . 
He found his rubber coat hanging in the hallway and swung into it with a fierce movement of the shoulders that all but started the seams . 
Everything seemed to conspire to thwart him . 
It was just like that absent minded , crazy poet , Presley , to forget his wheel . 
Well , he could come after it himself . 
He , Annixter , would ride SOME horse , anyhow . 
When he came out upon the porch he saw the wheel leaning against the fence where Presley had left it . 
If it stayed there much longer the rain would catch it . 
Annixter ripped out an oath . 
At every moment his ill humour was increasing . 
Yet , for all that , he went back to the stable , pushing the bicycle before him , and countermanded his order , directing the stableman to get the buggy ready . 
He himself carefully stowed Presley's bicycle under the seat , covering it with a couple of empty sacks and a tarpaulin carriage cover . 
While he was doing this , the stableman uttered an exclamation and paused in the act of backing the horse into the shafts , holding up a hand , listening . 
There's your rain , announced the stableman . 
The first of the season . 
And I got to be out in it , fumed Annixter , and I suppose those swine will quit work on the big barn now . 
She was so absorbed that she did not see Annixter , and his clumsy nod in her direction passed unnoticed . 
She did it on purpose , Annixter told himself , chewing fiercely on his cigar . 
Cuts me now , hey ? Well , this DOES settle it . 
She leaves this ranch before I'm a day older . 
He decided that he would put off his tour of inspection till the next day . 
Travelling in the buggy as he did , he must keep to the road which led to Derrick's , in very roundabout fashion , by way of Guadalajara . 
This rain would reduce the thick dust of the road to two feet of viscid mud . 
It would take him quite three hours to reach the ranch house on Los Muertos . 
He thought of Delaney and the buckskin and ground his teeth . 
And all this trouble , if you please , because of a fool feemale girl . 
A fine way for him to waste his time . 
Well , now he was done with it . 
His decision was taken now . 
The thick veil of wet descended straight from sky to earth , blurring distant outlines , spreading a vast sheen of grey over all the landscape . 
Its volume became greater , the prolonged murmuring note took on a deeper tone . 
At the gate to the road which led across Dyke's hop fields toward Guadalajara , Annixter was obliged to descend and raise the top of the buggy . 
In doing so he caught the flesh of his hand in the joint of the iron elbow that supported the top and pinched it cruelly . 
It was the last misery , the culmination of a long train of wretchedness . 
On the instant he hated Hilma Tree so fiercely that his sharply set teeth all but bit his cigar in two . 
Yah h h you ! he shouted , inarticulate with exasperation . 
You you Gor r r , wait till I get hold of you . 
WHOA , you ! But there was an interruption . 
Delaney , riding the buckskin , came around a bend in the road at a slow trot and Annixter , getting into the buggy again , found himself face to face with him . 
Why , hello , Mr. Annixter , said he , pulling up . 
But I guess it's all right . 
Oh , you guess it's all right , do you ? observed Annixter through his teeth . 
Why why yes , returned the other , bewildered at the truculent ring in Annixter's voice . 
I mended that break by the Long Trestle just now and Well , why didn't you mend it a week ago ? shouted Annixter wrathfully . 
And don't TALK to me , vociferated the other , exciting himself with his own noise . 
Don't you say a word to me even to apologise . 
If I've spoken to you once about that break , I've spoken fifty times . 
Why , sir , declared Delaney , beginning to get indignant , the sheep did it themselves last night . 
I told you not to TALK to me , clamoured Annixter . 
But , say , look here Get off the ranch . 
You get off the ranch . 
And taking that buckskin against my express orders . 
I won't have your kind about the place , not much . 
I'm easy going enough , Lord knows , but I don't propose to be imposed on ALL the time . 
Pack off , you understand and do it lively . 
Go to the foreman and tell him I told him to pay you off and then clear out . 
Now , then , get out of the way and let me pass . 
Angry beyond the power of retort , Delaney drove the spurs into the buckskin and passed the buggy in a single bound . 
Huh , grunted Annixter with grim satisfaction , a certain sense of good humour at length returning to him , that just about takes the saleratus out of YOUR dough , my friend . 
A little farther on , Annixter got out of the buggy a second time to open another gate that let him out upon the Upper Road , not far distant from Guadalajara . 
It was the road that connected that town with Bonneville and that ran parallel with the railroad tracks . 
The hard , sun baked clods were decomposing , the crevices between drinking the wet with an eager , sucking noise . 
The poles themselves were dark and swollen and glistening with wet , while the little cones of glass on the transverse bars reflected the dull grey light of the end of the afternoon . 
As Annixter was about to drive on , a freight train passed , coming from Guadalajara , going northward toward Bonneville , Fresno and San Francisco . 
It was a long train , moving slowly , methodically , with a measured coughing of its locomotive and a rhythmic cadence of its trucks over the interstices of the rails . 
Annixter halted , watching the train file past , carrying Derrick's ploughs away from his ranch , at this very time of the first rain , when they would be most needed . 
He watched it , silent , thoughtful , and without articulate comment . 
Even after it passed he sat in his place a long time , watching it lose itself slowly in the distance , its prolonged rumble diminishing to a faint murmur . 
Soon he heard the engine sounding its whistle for the Long Trestle . 
But the moving train no longer carried with it that impression of terror and destruction that had so thrilled Presley's imagination the night before . 
CHAPTER III When Annixter arrived at the Los Muertos ranch house that same evening , he found a little group already assembled in the dining room . 
Magnus Derrick , wearing the frock coat of broadcloth that he had put on for the occasion , stood with his back to the fireplace . 
Harran sat close at hand , one leg thrown over the arm of his chair . 
Presley lounged on the sofa , in corduroys and high laced boots , smoking cigarettes . 
As Annixter entered he heard Genslinger observe I'll have a leader in the 'Mercury' to morrow that will interest you people . 
There's some talk of your ranch lands being graded in value this winter . 
I suppose you will all buy ? In an instant the editor's words had riveted upon him the attention of every man in the room . 
Annixter broke the moment's silence that followed with the remark Well , it's about time they graded these lands of theirs . 
The question in issue in Genslinger's remark was of the most vital interest to the ranchers around Bonneville and Guadalajara . 
Neither Magnus Derrick , Broderson , Annixter , nor Osterman actually owned all the ranches which they worked . 
But this had not prevented the farmers from coming in upon that part of the San Joaquin . 
Long before this the railroad had thrown open these lands , and , by means of circulars , distributed broadcast throughout the State , had expressly invited settlement thereon . 
The price of these lands was to be fixed by the price the government put upon its own adjoining lands about two dollars and a half per acre . 
With cultivation and improvement the ranches must inevitably appreciate in value . 
There was every chance to make fortunes . 
As soon as the railroad wants to talk business with me , observed Annixter , about selling me their interest in Quien Sabe , I'm ready . 
The land has more than quadrupled in value . 
For two and a half ! exclaimed Genslinger . 
They are pledged to that . 
Even the P. and S. W. couldn't break such a pledge as that . 
You are new in the country , Mr. Genslinger . 
You don't remember the conditions upon which we took up this land . 
And our improvements , exclaimed Annixter . 
Why , Magnus and I have put about five thousand dollars between us into that irrigating ditch already . 
I guess we are not improving the land just to make it valuable for the railroad people . 
No matter how much we improve the land , or how much it increases in value , they have got to stick by their agreement on the basis of two fifty per acre . 
Here's one case where the P. and S. W. DON'T get everything in sight . 
I AM new in the country , as Harran says , he answered , but it seems to me that there's no fairness in that proposition . 
The presence of the railroad has helped increase the value of your ranches quite as much as your improvements . 
Why should you get all the benefit of the rise in value and the railroad nothing ? The fair way would be to share it between you . 
I don't care anything about that , declared Annixter . 
They agreed to charge but two fifty , and they've got to stick to it . 
Well , murmured Genslinger , from what I know of the affair , I don't believe the P. and S. W. intends to sell for two fifty an acre , at all . 
The managers of the road want the best price they can get for everything in these hard times . 
Times aren't ever very hard for the railroad , hazards old Broderson . 
Broderson was the oldest man in the room . 
He was about sixty five years of age , venerable , with a white beard , his figure bent earthwards with hard work . 
He had no sooner uttered his remark about hard times than he was moved to qualify it . 
Hard times , he repeated , a troubled , perplexed note in his voice well , yes yes . 
I suppose the road DOES have hard times , maybe . 
I didn't mean that exactly . 
I believe in being just and fair to everybody . 
I mean that we've got to use their lines and pay their charges good years AND bad years , the P. and S. W. being the only road in the State . 
That is well , when I say the only road no , I won't say the ONLY road . 
Of course there are other roads . 
There's the D. P. and M. and the San Francisco and North Pacific , that runs up to Ukiah . 
I got a brother in law in Ukiah . 
That's not much of a wheat country round Ukiah though they DO grow SOME wheat there , come to think . 
But I guess it's too far north . 
Well , of course there isn't MUCH . 
Perhaps sixty thousand acres in the whole county if you include barley and oats . 
I don't know maybe it's nearer forty thousand . 
I don't remember very well . 
That's a good many years ago . 
Look to them , then , Mr. Annixter , retorted Genslinger significantly , look to them . 
Be sure that you are protected . 
Soon after this Genslinger took himself away , and Derrick's Chinaman came in to set the table . 
What do you suppose he meant ? asked Broderson , when Genslinger was gone . 
About this land business ? said Annixter . 
Oh , I don't know . 
Haven't we got their terms printed in black and white in their circulars ? There's their pledge . 
Oh , as to pledges , murmured Broderson , the railroad is not always TOO much hindered by those . 
Where's Osterman ? demanded Annixter , abruptly changing the subject as if it were not worth discussion . 
Isn't that goat Osterman coming down here to night ? You telephoned him , didn't you , Presley ? inquired Magnus . 
Yes , sir , returned Presley . 
He said he would be here . 
And as he spoke , young Osterman arrived . 
He was a young fellow , but singularly inclined to baldness . 
His cheeks were of a brownish red , the cheek bones a little salient . 
His face was that of a comic actor , a singer of songs , a man never at a loss for an answer , continually striving to make a laugh . 
But he took no great interest in ranching and left the management of his land to his superintendents and foremen , he , himself , living in Bonneville . 
He was a poser , a wearer of clothes , forever acting a part , striving to create an impression , to draw attention to himself . 
At one moment his mania would be fencing the next , sleight of hand tricks the next , archery . 
It was his policy never to make an enemy . 
He was liked far better than he was respected . 
People spoke of him as that goat Osterman , or that fool Osterman kid , and invited him to dinner . 
He was of the sort who somehow cannot be ignored . 
If only because of his clamour he made himself important . 
He was glib , voluble , dexterous , ubiquitous , a teller of funny stories , a cracker of jokes . 
Naturally enough , he was heavily in debt , but carried the burden of it with perfect nonchalance . 
The year before S. Behrman had held mortgages for fully a third of his crop and had squeezed him viciously for interest . 
But for all that , Osterman and S. Behrman were continually seen arm in arm on the main street of Bonneville . 
Osterman saluted her with effusive cordiality and with ingratiating blandness . 
Hello , boys and girls . 
Sort of a gathering of the clans to night . 
Well , if here isn't that man Annixter . 
What do you know ? Kind of dusty out to night . 
But he was angry with Osterman , muttering imprecations to himself , horribly vexed that the young fellow should call him Buck before Magnus's wife . 
This goat Osterman ! Hadn't he any sense , that fool ? Couldn't he ever learn how to behave before a feemale ? Calling him Buck like that while Mrs. Derrick was there . 
Why a stable boy would know better a hired man would have better manners . 
No doubt , it would restore all his good humour , and he believed his stomach was so far recovered as to be able to stand it . 
But , unfortunately , the pudding was served with a sauce that he abhorred a thick , gruel like , colourless mixture , made from plain water and sugar . 
Before he could interfere , the Chinaman had poured a quantity of it upon his plate . 
I'll have mine straight , if you don't mind . 
That's good for your stomach , Buck , observed young Osterman makes it go down kind of sort of slick don't you see ? Sloop , hey ? That's a good name . 
Look here , don't you call me Buck . 
You don't seem to have any sense , and , besides , it ISN'T good for my stomach . 
What do YOU know about my stomach , anyhow ? Just looking at sloop like that makes me sick . 
A little while after this the Chinaman cleared away the dessert and brought in coffee and cigars . 
The whiskey bottle and the syphon of soda water reappeared . 
The men eased themselves in their places , pushing back from the table , lighting their cigars , talking of the beginning of the rains and the prospects of a rise in wheat . 
Broderson began an elaborate mental calculation , trying to settle in his mind the exact date of his visit to Ukiah , and Osterman did sleight of hand tricks with bread pills . 
But Princess Nathalie , the cat , was uneasy . 
Annixter was occupying her own particular chair in which she slept every night . 
She could not go to sleep , but spied upon him continually , watching his every movement with her lambent , yellow eyes , clear as amber . 
Then , at length , Magnus , who was at the head of the table , moved in his place , assuming a certain magisterial attitude . 
Well , gentlemen , he observed , I have lost my case against the railroad , the grain rate case . 
Ulsteen decided against me , and now I hear rumours to the effect that rates for the hauling of grain are to be advanced . 
When Magnus had finished , there was a moment's silence , each member of the group maintaining his attitude of attention and interest . 
It was Harran who first spoke . 
S. Behrman manipulated the whole affair . 
Shelgrim ! The name fell squarely in the midst of the conversation , abrupt , grave , sombre , big with suggestion , pregnant with huge associations . 
I don't think , however , he has moved yet , said Magnus . 
The thing for us , then , exclaimed Osterman , is to stand from under before he does . 
Moved yet ! snorted Annixter . 
He's probably moved so long ago that we've never noticed it . 
In any case , hazarded Magnus , it is scarcely probable that the deal whatever it is to be has been consummated . 
If we act quickly , there may be a chance . 
Act quickly ! How ? demanded Annixter . 
Good Lord ! what can you do ? We're cinched already . 
It all amounts to just this YOU CAN'T BUCK AGAINST THE RAILROAD . 
We've tried it and tried it , and we are stuck every time . 
You , yourself , Derrick , have just lost your grain rate case . 
S. Behrman did you up . 
He's got men like Ulsteen in his pocket . 
He's got the Railroad Commission in his pocket . 
He's got the Governor of the State in his pocket . 
He keeps a million dollar lobby at Sacramento every minute of the time the legislature is in session he's got his own men on the floor of the United States Senate . 
He has the whole thing organised like an army corps . 
What ARE you going to do ? He sits in his office in San Francisco and pulls the strings and we've got to dance . 
But well but , hazarded Broderson , but there's the Interstate Commerce Commission . 
It's almost as good as the Railroad Commission . 
That is our only hope . 
Once elect Commissioners who would be loyal to the people , and the whole system of excessive rates falls to the ground . 
Well , why not HAVE a Railroad Commission of our own , then ? suddenly declared young Osterman . 
Because it can't be done , retorted Annixter . 
YOU CAN'T BUCK AGAINST THE RAILROAD and if you could you can't organise the farmers in the San Joaquin . 
We tried it once , and it was enough to turn your stomach . 
The railroad quietly bought delegates through S. Behrman and did us up . 
Well , that's the game to play , said Osterman decisively , buy delegates . 
It's the only game that seems to win , admitted Harran gloomily . 
Or ever will win , exclaimed Osterman , a sudden excitement seeming to take possession of him . 
His face the face of a comic actor , with its great slit of mouth and stiff , red ears went abruptly pink . 
Look here , he cried , this thing is getting desperate . 
We've fought and fought in the courts and out and we've tried agitation and and all the rest of it and S. Behrman sacks us every time . 
Now comes the time when there's a prospect of a big crop we've had no rain for two years and the land has had a long rest . 
And now here's the primaries coming off and a new Railroad Commission going in . 
That's why Shelgrim chose this time to make his deal . 
If we wait till Shelgrim pulls it off , we're done for , that's flat . 
I tell you we're in a fix if we don't keep an eye open . 
Magnus has just said that the key to the whole thing is the Railroad Commission . 
Well , why not have a Commission of our own ? Never mind how we get it , let's get it . 
If it's got to be bought , let's buy it and put our own men on it and dictate what the rates will be . 
Suppose it costs a hundred thousand dollars . 
Well , we'll get back more than that in cheap rates . 
Mr. Osterman , said Magnus , fixing the young man with a swift glance , Mr. Osterman , you are proposing a scheme of bribery , sir . 
I am proposing , repeated Osterman , a scheme of bribery . 
And a crazy , wild eyed scheme at that , said Annixter gruffly . 
Even supposing you bought a Railroad Commission and got your schedule of low rates , what happens ? The P. and S. W. crowd get out an injunction and tie you up . 
They would tie themselves up , too . 
Hauling at low rates is better than no hauling at all . 
The wheat has got to be moved . 
Oh , rot ! cried Annixter . 
I don't know but what there's something in what Osterman says . 
We'd have the naming of the Commission and we'd name honest men . 
Annixter struck the table with his fist in exasperation . 
Honest men ! he shouted the kind of men you could get to go into such a scheme would have to be DIS honest to begin with . 
That is , he hastened to add , ALMOST a certainty pretty near a certainty . 
Of course , it would be a chance , exclaimed Osterman . 
But it's come to the point where we've got to take chances , risk a big stake to make a big strike , and risk is better than sure failure . 
I can be no party to a scheme of avowed bribery and corruption , Mr. Osterman , declared Magnus , a ring of severity in his voice . 
I am surprised , sir , that you should even broach the subject in my hearing . 
And , cried Annixter , it can't be done . 
I don't know , muttered Harran , maybe it just wants a little spark like this to fire the whole train . 
Magnus glanced at his son in considerable surprise . 
He had not expected this of Harran . 
He in no way countenanced it . 
At any moment he was prepared to rise in his place and denounce it and Osterman both . 
And abruptly the discussion began . 
Annixter , who led the argument against him loving argument though he did appeared to poor advantage , unable to present his side effectively . 
He called Osterman a fool , a goat , a senseless , crazy headed jackass , but was unable to refute his assertions . 
His debate was the clumsy heaving of brickbats , brutal , direct . 
But suddenly Osterman discovered a new argument . 
If we swing this deal , he cried , we've got old jelly belly Behrman right where we want him . 
He's the man that does us every time , cried Harran . 
If there is dirty work to be done in which the railroad doesn't wish to appear , it is S. Behrman who does it . 
If the freight rates are to be 'adjusted' to squeeze us a little harder , it is S. Behrman who regulates what we can stand . 
If there's a judge to be bought , it is S. Behrman who does the bargaining . 
If there is a jury to be bribed , it is S. Behrman who handles the money . 
If there is an election to be jobbed , it is S. Behrman who manipulates it . 
It's Behrman here and Behrman there . 
It is Behrman we come against every time we make a move . 
It is Behrman who has the grip of us and will never let go till he has squeezed us bone dry . 
Why , when I think of it all sometimes I wonder I keep my hands off the man . 
He took the floor , creating an impression , attracting all attention to himself , playing to the gallery , gesticulating , clamourous , full of noise . 
Well , now is your chance to get even , he vociferated . 
It is now or never . 
You can take it and save the situation for yourselves and all California or you can leave it and rot on your own ranches . 
Buck , I know you . 
I know you're not afraid of anything that wears skin . 
Governor , you're a brave man . 
You know the advantage of prompt and fearless action . 
You are not the sort to shrink from taking chances . 
To play for big stakes is just your game to stake a fortune on the turn of a card . 
You didn't get the reputation of being the strongest poker player in El Dorado County for nothing . 
Now , here's the biggest gamble that ever came your way . 
If we stand up to it like men with guts in us , we'll win out . 
If we hesitate , we're lost . 
I know as well as you that we are in a hole . 
But I knew that before I came here to night . 
YOU'VE not done anything to make me change my mind . 
But just what do you propose ? Let's hear it . 
Well , I say the first thing to do is to see Disbrow . 
He's the political boss of the Denver , Pueblo , and Mojave road . 
We will have to get in with the machine some way and that's particularly why I want Magnus with us . 
He knows politics better than any of us and if we don't want to get sold again we will have to have some one that's in the know to steer us . 
The only politics I understand , Mr. Osterman , answered Magnus sternly , are honest politics . 
You must look elsewhere for your political manager . 
I refuse to have any part in this matter . 
If the Railroad Commission can be nominated legitimately , if your arrangements can be made without bribery , I am with you to the last iota of my ability . 
Well , you can't get what you want without paying for it , contradicted Annixter . 
Broderson was about to speak when Osterman kicked his foot under the table . 
He , himself , held his peace . 
This was precisely what happened . 
In a few moments Annixter was declaring at top voice his readiness to mortgage the crop of Quien Sabe , if necessary , for the sake of busting S. Behrman . 
He could see no great obstacle in the way of controlling the nominating convention so far as securing the naming of two Railroad Commissioners was concerned . 
Two was all they needed . 
Probably it WOULD cost money . 
You didn't get something for nothing . 
It would cost them all a good deal more if they sat like lumps on a log and played tiddledy winks while Shelgrim sold out from under them . 
Then there was this , too the P. and S. W. were hard up just then . 
The shortage on the State's wheat crop for the last two years had affected them , too . 
They were retrenching in expenditures all along the line . 
Hadn't they just cut wages in all departments ? There was this affair of Dyke's to prove it . 
The railroad didn't always act as a unit , either . 
There was always a party in it that opposed spending too much money . 
He would bet that party was strong just now . 
He was kind of sick himself of being kicked by S. Behrman . 
Harran had the right idea . 
Somebody had got to be busted mighty soon now and he didn't propose that it should be he . 
Now you are talking something like sense , observed Osterman . 
I thought you would see it like that when you got my idea . 
Your idea , YOUR idea ! cried Annixter . 
Why , I've had this idea myself for over three years . 
What about Disbrow ? asked Harran , hastening to interrupt . 
Their terminus is way to the south of us , and they don't care anything about grain rates through the San Joaquin . 
They don't care how anti railroad the Commission is , because the Commission's rulings can't affect them . 
But they divide traffic with the P. and S. W. in the southern part of the State and they have a good deal of influence with that road . 
Who , for instance ? Darrell , that Los Angeles man remember ? Well , Darrell is no particular friend of Disbrow , said Annixter . 
Why should Disbrow take him up ? PREE cisely , cried Osterman . 
We make it worth Disbrow's while to do it . 
We go to him and say , 'Mr . 
Disbrow , you manage the politics for the Mojave railroad , and what you say goes with your Board of Directors . 
We want you to adopt our candidate for Railroad Commissioner for the third district . 
How much do you want for doing it ? I KNOW we can buy Disbrow . 
That gives us one Commissioner . 
We need not bother about that any more . 
In the first district we don't make any move at all . 
We let the political managers of the P. and S. W. nominate whoever they like . 
Then we concentrate all our efforts to putting in our man in the second district . 
There is where the big fight will come . 
I see perfectly well what you mean , Mr. Osterman , observed Magnus , but make no mistake , sir , as to my attitude in this business . 
You may count me as out of it entirely . 
Well , suppose we win , put in Annixter truculently , already acknowledging himself as involved in the proposed undertaking suppose we win and get low rates for hauling grain . 
No , nor any of the expense , either . 
Stop right where you are , sir , he exclaimed . 
You forget yourself , Mr. Annixter . 
Please understand that I tolerate such words as you have permitted yourself to make use of from no man , not even from my guest . 
I shall ask you to apologise . 
In an instant he dominated the entire group , imposing a respect that was as much fear as admiration . 
For the moment he was the Master again , the Leader . 
Like so many delinquent school boys , the others cowered before him , ashamed , put to confusion , unable to find their tongues . 
For a few seconds no one answered . 
Then , Annixter , moving abruptly and uneasily in his place , muttered I spoke upon provocation . 
If you like , we'll consider it unsaid . 
I don't know what's going to become of us go out of business , I presume . 
I understand Magnus all right , put in Osterman . 
He don't have to go into this thing , if it's against his conscience . 
Magnus can stay out if he wants to , but that won't prevent us going ahead and seeing what we can do . 
Only there's this about it . 
He turned again to Magnus , speaking with every degree of earnestness , every appearance of conviction . 
I did not deny , Governor , from the very start that this would mean bribery . 
But you don't suppose that I like the idea either . 
If there was one legitimate hope that was yet left untried , no matter how forlorn it was , I would try it . 
It is literally and soberly true that every means of help every honest means has been attempted . 
Shelgrim is going to cinch us . 
Grain rates are increasing , while , on the other hand , the price of wheat is sagging lower and lower all the time . 
If we don't do something we are ruined . 
Osterman paused for a moment , allowing precisely the right number of seconds to elapse , then altering and lowering his voice , added I respect the Governor's principles . 
They do him every degree of credit . 
I won't ask you for an answer to night , but what I do ask of you is to consider this matter seriously and think over the whole business . 
Will you do it ? Osterman ceased definitely to speak , leaning forward across the table , his eves fixed on Magnus's face . 
Outside , the rain fell continually with an even , monotonous murmur . 
In the group of men around the table no one stirred nor spoke . 
They looked steadily at Magnus , who , for the moment , kept his glance fixed thoughtfully upon the table before him . 
In another moment he raised his head and looked from face to face around the group . 
After all , these were his neighbours , his friends , men with whom he had been upon the closest terms of association . 
In a way they represented what now had come to be his world . 
His single swift glance took in the men , one after another . 
His blue eyes looked straight into his father's with what Magnus could fancy a glance of appeal . 
Magnus could see that expression in the faces of the others very plainly . 
I will think of it , he said , then hastened to add , but I can tell you beforehand that you may expect only a refusal . 
After Magnus had spoken , there was a prolonged silence . 
The conference seemed of itself to have come to an end for that evening . 
But Annixter was irritated at the Princess's attentions , misunderstanding their motive . 
Get out ! he exclaimed , lifting his feet to the rung of the chair . 
Lord love me , but I sure do hate a cat . 
By the way , observed Osterman , I passed Genslinger by the gate as I came in to night . 
Had he been here ? Yes , he was here , said Harran , and but Annixter took the words out of his mouth . 
He says there's some talk of the railroad selling us their sections this winter . 
Oh , he did , did he ? exclaimed Osterman , interested at once . 
Where did he hear that ? Where does a railroad paper get its news ? From the General Office , I suppose . 
I hope he didn't get it straight from headquarters that the land was to be graded at twenty dollars an acre , murmured Broderson . 
What's that ? demanded Osterman . 
Twenty dollars ! Here , put me on , somebody . 
What's all up ? What did Genslinger say ? Oh , you needn't get scared , said Annixter . 
Genslinger don't know , that's all . 
He thinks there was no understanding that the price of the land should not be advanced when the P. and S. W. came to sell to us . 
Oh , muttered Osterman relieved . 
Here is the circular , he remarked , drawing out one of the pamphlets . 
The conditions of settlement to which the railroad obligated itself are very explicit . 
Settlers are thus insured that in addition to being accorded the first privilege of purchase , at the graded price , they will also be protected in their improvements . 
And here , he commented , in Section IX . 
it reads , 'The lands are not uniform in price , but are offered at various figures from . 
Usually land covered with tall timber is held at . 
per acre , and that with pine at . 
Most is for sale at . 
When you come to read that carefully , hazarded old Broderson , it it's not so VERY REASSURING . 
'MOST is for sale at two fifty an acre , it says . 
That don't mean 'ALL , that only means SOME . 
At least , he he he is in TOUCH with them . 
Those , I mean , who are subsidised by the General Office . 
But , perhaps , Genslinger isn't subsidised , I don't know . 
I I am not sure . 
Maybe perhaps Oh , you don't know and you do know , and maybe and perhaps , and you're not so sure , vociferated Annixter . 
How about ignoring the value of our improvements ? Nothing hazy about THAT statement , I guess . 
Well , one thing at a time , said Harran . 
The thing for us now is to get into this primary election and the convention and see if we can push our men for Railroad Commissioners . 
He rose , stretching his arms above his head . 
I've about talked all the wind out of me , he said . 
Think I'll be moving along . 
The fields and roads were veritable seas of viscid mud , the night absolutely black dark assuredly not a night in which to venture out . 
Magnus insisted that the three ranchers should put up at Los Muertos . 
Osterman accepted at once , Annixter , after an interminable discussion , allowed himself to be persuaded , in the end accepting as though granting a favour . 
Broderson protested that his wife , who was not well , would expect him to return that night and would , no doubt , fret if he did not appear . 
Furthermore , he lived close by , at the junction of the County and Lower Road . 
Fool ! muttered Annixter when the old man had gone . 
Imagine farming a ranch the size of his without a foreman . 
Harran showed Osterman and Annixter where they were to sleep , in adjoining rooms . 
Osterman found an excuse for going to bed , but Annixter and Harran remained in the latter's room , in a haze of blue tobacco smoke , talking , talking . 
But at length , at the end of all argument , Annixter got up , remarking Well , I'm going to turn in . 
The darkness was profound , impenetrable the rain fell with an uninterrupted roar . 
But suddenly he was aware of a commotion , issuing from the direction of Annixter's room , and the voice of Annixter himself upraised in expostulation and exasperation . 
The door banged to so that all the windows of the house rattled in their frames . 
Harran hurried out into the dining room and there met Presley and his father , who had been aroused as well by Annixter's clamour . 
Osterman was there , too , his bald head gleaming like a bulb of ivory in the light of the lamp that Magnus carried . 
What's all up ? demanded Osterman . 
Whatever in the world is the matter with Buck ? Confused and terrible sounds came from behind the door of Annixter's room . 
A prolonged monologue of grievance , broken by explosions of wrath and the vague noise of some one in a furious hurry . 
All at once and before Harran had a chance to knock on the door , Annixter flung it open . 
Without a moment's pause he gave vent to his indignation in a torrent of words . 
Funny , isn't it ? Oh , yes , too funny for any use . 
I'd laugh a little louder if I was you . 
Well , Buck , protested Harran , as he noticed the hat in Annixter's hand , you're not going home just for Annixter turned on him with a shout . 
I'll get plumb out of here , he trumpeted . 
I won't stay here another minute . 
He swung into his waistcoat and coat , scrabbling at the buttons in the violence of his emotions . 
And I don't know but what it will make me sick again to go out in a night like this . 
NO , I won't stay . 
Some things are funny , and then , again , there are some things that are not . 
Ah , yes , sloop ! Well , that's all right . 
I can be funny , too , when you come to that . 
You don't get a cent of money out of me . 
You can do your dirty bribery in your own dirty way . 
I won't come into this scheme at all . 
I wash my hands of the whole business . 
It's rotten and it's wild eyed it's dirt from start to finish and you'll all land in State's prison . 
You can count me out . 
I know who put it in , clamoured the other , shaking his fists , and don't call me Buck and I'll do as I please . 
I WILL go back home . 
I'll get plumb out of here . 
Sorry I ever lent myself to such a disgusting , dishonest , dirty bribery game as this all to night . 
I won't put a dime into it , no , not a penny . 
He stormed to the door leading out upon the porch , deaf to all reason . 
Harran and Presley followed him , trying to dissuade him from going home at that time of night and in such a storm , but Annixter was not to be placated . 
What's the use of making a fool of yourself , Annixter ? remonstrated Presley , as Annixter backed the horse from the stall . 
You act just like a ten year old boy . 
If Osterman wants to play the goat , why should you help him out ? He's a PIP , vociferated Annixter . 
You don't understand , Presley . 
It runs in my family to hate anything sticky . 
How would you like to get into bed at two in the morning and jam your feet down into a slimy mess like that ? Oh , no . 
It's not so funny then . 
He cut the horse across the back with the whip and drove out into the pelting rain . 
In a few seconds the sound of his buggy wheels was lost in the muffled roar of the downpour . 
Harran and Presley closed the barn and returned to the house , sheltering themselves under a tarpaulin carriage cover . 
Once inside , Harran went to remonstrate with Osterman , who was still up . 
The house had fallen quiet again . 
As Presley crossed the dining room on the way to his own apartment in the second story of the house , he paused for a moment , looking about him . 
In the dull light of the lowered lamps , the redwood panelling of the room showed a dark crimson as though stained with blood . 
Promptly discharged from the employ of the sheep raisers after the lamentable accident near the Long Trestle , Vanamee had presented himself to Harran , asking for employment . 
The season was beginning on all the ranches work was being resumed . 
The rain had put the ground into admirable condition for ploughing , and Annixter , Broderson , and Osterman all had their gangs at work . 
It could not be said definitely when the new ploughs would arrive . 
He could afford to lose the money better than he could afford to lose the season . 
Failing of work on Los Muertos , Vanamee had gone to Quien Sabe . 
But an hour after daylight the next morning the work was resumed . 
After breakfast , Vanamee , riding one horse and leading the others , had returned to the line of ploughs together with the other drivers . 
Now he was busy harnessing the team . 
At the division blacksmith shop temporarily put up he had been obliged to wait while one of his lead horses was shod , and he had thus been delayed quite five minutes . 
Nearly all the other teams were harnessed , the drivers on their seats , waiting for the foreman's signal . 
All ready here ? inquired the foreman , driving up to Vanamee's team in his buggy . 
All ready , sir , answered Vanamee , buckling the last strap . 
Since the first rain of the season , there had been no other . 
Now the sky was without a cloud , pale blue , delicate , luminous , scintillating with morning . 
The great brown earth turned a huge flank to it , exhaling the moisture of the early dew . 
The atmosphere , washed clean of dust and mist , was translucent as crystal . 
The campanile of the ancient Mission of San Juan seemed as fine as frost work . 
All about between the horizons , the carpet of the land unrolled itself to infinity . 
But now it was no longer parched with heat , cracked and warped by a merciless sun , powdered with dust . 
The rain had done its work not a clod that was not swollen with fertility , not a fissure that did not exhale the sense of fecundity . 
One could not take a dozen steps upon the ranches without the brusque sensation that underfoot the land was alive roused at last from its sleep , palpitating with the desire of reproduction . 
Each of these ploughs held five shears , so that when the entire company was in motion , one hundred and seventy five furrows were made at the same instant . 
At a distance , the ploughs resembled a great column of field artillery . 
Each driver was in his place , his glance alternating between his horses and the foreman nearest at hand . 
Other foremen , in their buggies or buckboards , were at intervals along the line , like battery lieutenants . 
Annixter himself , on horseback , in boots and campaign hat , a cigar in his teeth , overlooked the scene . 
The division superintendent , on the opposite side of the line , galloped past to a position at the head . 
For a long moment there was a silence . 
A sense of preparedness ran from end to end of the column . 
All things were ready , each man in his place . 
The day's work was about to begin . 
Suddenly , from a distance at the head of the line came the shrill trilling of a whistle . 
At once the foreman nearest Vanamee repeated it , at the same time turning down the line , and waving one arm . 
The signal was repeated , whistle answering whistle , till the sounds lost themselves in the distance . 
At once the line of ploughs lost its immobility , moving forward , getting slowly under way , the horses straining in the traces . 
The ploughing thus commenced , continued . 
Steadily the hundred iron hands kneaded and furrowed and stroked the brown , humid earth , the hundred iron teeth bit deep into the Titan's flesh . 
But while one part of his brain , alert and watchful , took cognisance of these matters , all the greater part was lulled and stupefied with the long monotony of the affair . 
The ploughing , now in full swing , enveloped him in a vague , slow moving whirl of things . 
At intervals , from the tops of one of the rare , low swells of the land , Vanamee overlooked a wider horizon . 
On the other divisions of Quien Sabe the same work was in progress . 
There , too , moving specks indicated that the ploughing was under way . 
Everywhere throughout the great San Joaquin , unseen and unheard , a thousand ploughs up stirred the land , tens of thousands of shears clutched deep into the warm , moist soil . 
It was the long stroking caress , vigorous , male , powerful , for which the Earth seemed panting . 
From time to time the gang in which Vanamee worked halted on the signal from foreman or overseer . 
The horses came to a standstill , the vague clamour of the work lapsed away . 
The whole work hung suspended . 
All up and down the line one demanded what had happened . 
The division superintendent galloped past , perplexed and anxious . 
He had ridden farther on to the other divisions of his ranch , to watch the work in progress there . 
At half past twelve , Vanamee and the rest of the drivers ate their lunch in the field , the tin buckets having been distributed to them that morning after breakfast . 
It was between six and seven o'clock . 
Overhead a half dozen kerosene lamps flared and smoked . 
The table was taken as if by assault the clatter of iron knives upon the tin plates was as the reverberation of hail upon a metal roof . 
At every moment one or another of the men demanded a fresh portion of beef , another pint of wine , another half loaf of bread . 
For upwards of an hour the gang ate . 
It was no longer a supper . 
It was a veritable barbecue , a crude and primitive feasting , barbaric , homeric . 
But in all this scene Vanamee saw nothing repulsive . 
Presley would have abhorred it this feeding of the People , this gorging of the human animal , eager for its meat . 
Vanamee , simple , uncomplicated , living so close to nature and the rudimentary life , understood its significance . 
Work , food , and sleep , all life reduced to its bare essentials , uncomplex , honest , healthy . 
For a brief moment immediately after the meal , pipes were lit , and the air grew thick with fragrant tobacco smoke . 
On a corner of the dining room table , a game of poker was begun . 
But soon the men began to turn in , stretching themselves at full length on the horse blankets in the racklike bunks . 
The sounds of heavy breathing increased steadily , lights were put out , and before the afterglow had faded from the sky , the gang was asleep . 
Vanamee , however , remained awake . 
The night was fine , warm the sky silver grey with starlight . 
By and by there would be a moon . 
In the first watch after the twilight , a faint puff of breeze came up out of the south . 
From all around , the heavy penetrating smell of the new turned earth exhaled steadily into the darkness . 
After a while , when the moon came up , he could see the vast brown breast of the earth turn toward it . 
Thitherward , like homing pigeons , Vanamee's thoughts turned irresistibly . 
Near to that tower , just beyond , in the little hollow , hidden now from his sight , was the Seed ranch where Angele Varian had lived . 
Straining his eyes , peering across the intervening levels , Vanamee fancied he could almost see the line of venerable pear trees in whose shadow she had been accustomed to wait for him . 
On many such a night as this he had crossed the ranches to find her there . 
To that they had been born . 
God had not meant it , after all . 
The whole matter had been a mistake . 
That vast , wonderful love that had come upon them had been only the flimsiest mockery . 
He knew the night that was before him . 
Then he must fight out the night , wrestling with his sorrow , praying sometimes , incoherent , hardly conscious , asking Why of the night and of the stars . 
Such another night had come to him now . 
Until dawn he knew he must struggle with his grief , torn with memories , his imagination assaulted with visions of a vanished happiness . 
If this paroxysm of sorrow was to assail him again that night , there was but one place for him to be . 
He would go to the Mission he would see Father Sarria he would pass the night in the deep shadow of the aged pear trees in the Mission garden . 
He struck out across Quien Sabe , his face , the face of an ascetic , lean , brown , infinitely sad , set toward the Mission church . 
He climbed the hill and halted , out of breath from his brisk wall , at the end of the colonnade of the Mission itself . 
Until this moment Vanamee had not trusted himself to see the Mission at night . 
In the daylight , the place had seemed strange to him . 
None of his associations with the old building and its surroundings were those of sunlight and brightness . 
But as yet he had not entered the garden . 
That lay on the other side of the Mission . 
At the foot of the stairs was a door opening into the church . 
The servant admitted Vanamee , closing the door behind her . 
All around the walls was the inevitable series of pictures representing the Stations of the Cross . 
They were of a hideous crudity of design and composition , yet were wrought out with an innocent , unquestioning sincerity that was not without its charm . 
Each picture framed alike in gilt , bore its suitable inscription in staring black letters . 
Simon , The Cyrenean , Helps Jesus to Carry His Cross . 
Saint Veronica Wipes the Face of Jesus . 
Jesus Falls for the Fourth Time , and so on . 
Between the pews , in the aisle , the violent vermilion of a strip of ingrain carpet assaulted the eye . 
The air of the place was cool and damp , and heavy with the flat , sweet scent of stale incense smoke . 
It was of a vault like stillness , and the closing of the door behind Vanamee reechoed from corner to corner with a prolonged reverberation of thunder . 
However , Father Sarria was not in the church . 
Vanamee took a couple of turns the length of the aisle , looking about into the chapels on either side of the chancel . 
But the building was deserted . 
The priest had been there recently , nevertheless , for the altar furniture was in disarray , as though he had been rearranging it but a moment before . 
On both sides of the church and half way up their length , the walls were pierced by low archways , in which were massive wooden doors , clamped with iron bolts . 
Vanamee did not call to the priest . 
Putting a finger to either temple , he fixed his eyes steadily upon him for a moment as he moved about at his work . 
In a few seconds he closed his eyes , but only part way . 
The pupils contracted his forehead lowered to an expression of poignant intensity . 
Soon afterward he saw the priest pause abruptly in the act of drawing the cover over the crucifix , looking about him from side to side . 
He turned again to his work , and again came to a stop , perplexed , curious . 
With uncertain steps , and evidently wondering why he did so , he came to the door of the room and opened it , looking out into the night . 
Vanamee , hidden in the deep shadow of the archway , did not move , but his eyes closed , and the intense expression deepened on his face . 
Sarria gave a great start , catching his breath . 
Oh oh , it's you . 
Was it you I heard calling ? No , I could not have heard I remember now . 
What a strange power ! I am not sure that it is right to do this thing , Vanamee . 
I I HAD to come . 
I do not know why . 
It is a great force a power I don't like it . 
Vanamee , sometimes it frightens me . 
Vanamee put his chin in the air . 
If I had wanted to , sir , I could have made you come to me from back there in the Quien Sabe ranch . 
The priest shook his head . 
It troubles me , he said , to think that my own will can count for so little . 
Just now I could not resist . 
If a deep river had been between us , I must have crossed it . 
Suppose I had been asleep now ? It would have been all the easier , answered Vanamee . 
I understand as little of these things as you . 
But I think if you had been asleep , your power of resistance would have been so much the more weakened . 
Perhaps I should not have waked . 
Perhaps I should have come to you in my sleep . 
It is occult , he hazarded . 
No I do not like it . 
Dear fellow , he put his hand on Vanamee's shoulder , don't call me that way again promise . 
See , he held out his hand , I am all of a tremble . 
There , we won't speak of it further . 
Wait for me a moment . 
I have only to put the cross in its place , and a fresh altar cloth , and then I am done . 
To morrow is the feast of The Holy Cross , and I am preparing against it . 
We will smoke a cigar in the cloister garden . 
A few moments later the two passed out of the door on the other side of the church , opposite the pulpit , Sarria adjusting a silk skull cap on his tonsured head . 
He wore his cassock now , and was far more the churchman in appearance than when Vanamee and Presley had seen him on a former occasion . 
They were now in the cloister garden . 
Everywhere grew clumps of palms and magnolia trees . 
A grapevine , over a century old , occupied a trellis in one angle of the walls which surrounded the garden on two sides . 
Small gravelled walks , well kept , bordered with mignonette , twisted about among the flower beds , and underneath the magnolia trees . 
Two of Sarria's predecessors were buried here three of the graves were those of Mission Indians . 
But the quiet , the repose , the isolation of the little cloister garden was infinitely delicious . 
It was a tiny corner of the great valley that stretched in all directions around it shut off , discreet , romantic , a garden of dreams , of enchantments , of illusions . 
All about them widened the vast calm night . 
All the stars were out . 
The moon was coming up . 
There was no wind , no sound . 
The insistent flowing of the fountain seemed only as the symbol of the passing of time , a thing that was understood rather than heard , inevitable , prolonged . 
From where he sat , Vanamee , turning his head , could look out underneath the pear trees to the north . 
Close at hand , a little valley lay between the high ground on which the Mission was built , and the line of low hills just beyond Broderson Creek on the Quien Sabe . 
This had been the vocation of Angele's parents raising flowers for their seeds . 
All over the country the Seed ranch was known . 
When an east wind blew , men on the streets of Bonneville , nearly twelve miles away , could catch the scent of this valley of flowers , this chaos of perfume . 
And into this life of flowers , this world of colour , this atmosphere oppressive and clogged and cloyed and thickened with sweet odour , Angele had been born . 
There she had lived her sixteen years . 
Her hands disengaged the odour of the heliotropes . 
The folds of her dress gave off the enervating scent of poppies . 
Her feet were redolent of hyacinths . 
For a long time after sitting down upon the bench , neither the priest nor Vanamee spoke . 
But after a while Sarria took his cigar from his lips , saying How still it is ! This is a beautiful old garden , peaceful , very quiet . 
Some day I shall be buried here . 
I like to remember that and you , too , Vanamee . 
Quien sabe ? Yes , you , too . 
Where else ? No , it is better here , yonder , by the side of the little girl . 
I am not able to look forward yet , sir . 
The things that are to be are somehow nothing to me at all . 
For me they amount to nothing . 
They amount to everything , my boy . 
Yes , to one part of me , but not to the part of me that belonged to Angele the best part . 
Oh , you don't know , he exclaimed with a sudden movement , no one can understand . 
What do I believe ? I don't know . 
I believe , or I don't believe . 
I can remember what she WAS , but I cannot hope what she will be . 
Hope , after all , is only memory seen reversed . 
It's that , that I want , he exclaimed . 
I don't want her changed . 
I don't want her spiritualised , exalted , glorified , celestial . 
I think it is only this feeling that has kept me from killing myself . 
I would rather be unhappy in the memory of what she actually was , than be happy in the realisation of her transformed , changed , made celestial . 
Her soul ! That was beautiful , no doubt . 
But , again , it was something very vague , intangible , hardly more than a phrase . 
But the touch of her hand was real , the sound of her voice was real , the clasp of her arms about my neck was real . 
Oh , he cried , shaken with a sudden wrench of passion , give those back to me . 
But when you meet her again , he observed , in Heaven , you , too , will be changed . 
You will see her spiritualised , with spiritual eyes . 
As she is now , she does not appeal to you . 
It is because , as you say , you are only human , while she is divine . 
Vanamee , your talk is that of a foolish child . 
You are like one of the Corinthians to whom Paul wrote . 
Do you remember ? Listen now . 
I can recall the words , and such words , beautiful and terrible at the same time , such a majesty . 
They march like soldiers with trumpets . 
It may chance of wheat , or of some other grain . 
But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him , and to every seed his own body . 
It is sown a natural body it is raised a spiritual body . 
Your grain of wheat is your symbol of immortality . 
You bury it in the earth . 
It dies , and rises again a thousand times more beautiful . 
Vanamee , your dear girl was only a grain of humanity that we have buried here , and the end is not yet . 
But all this is so old , so old . 
Vanamee was silent for a moment , looking off with unseeing eyes between the trunks of the pear trees , over the little valley . 
That may all be as you say , he answered after a while . 
I have not learned it yet , in any case . 
Now , I only know that I love her oh , as if it all were yesterday and that I am suffering , suffering , always . 
He leaned forward , his head supported on his clenched fists , the infinite sadness of his face deepening like a shadow , the tears brimming in his deep set eyes . 
A question that he must ask , which involved the thing that was scarcely to be thought of , occurred to him at this moment . 
After hesitating for a long moment , he said I have been away a long time , and I have had no news of this place since I left . 
Is there anything to tell , Father ? Has any discovery been made , any suspicion developed , as to the Other ? The priest shook his head . 
Not a word , not a whisper . 
Vanamee clasped his head between his clenched fists , rocking himself to and fro . 
Oh , the terror of it , he murmured . 
And to be struck down like that , while your God looked down from Heaven and would not take her part . 
All at once he seemed to lose control of himself . 
One of those furies of impotent grief and wrath that assailed him from time to time , blind , insensate , incoherent , suddenly took possession of him . 
No , your God would not take her part . 
Why did God make her so divinely pure if He permitted that abomination ? Ha ! he exclaimed bitterly , your God ! Why , an Apache buck would have been more merciful . 
Your God ! There is no God . 
There is only the Devil . 
The Heaven you pray to is only a joke , a wretched trick , a delusion . 
It is only Hell that is real . 
Sarria caught him by the arm . 
You are a fool and a child , he exclaimed , and it is blasphemy that you are saying . 
You understand ? I forbid it . 
Vanamee turned on him with a sudden cry . 
Then , tell your God to give her back to me ! Sarria started away from him , his eyes widening in astonishment , surprised out of all composure by the other's outburst . 
Vanamee's swarthy face was pale , the sunken cheeks and deep set eyes were marked with great black shadows . 
The priest no longer recognised him . 
The face , that face of the ascetic , lean , framed in its long black hair and pointed beard , was quivering with the excitement of hallucination . 
In a brief second of thought , Sarria understood . 
Out into the wilderness , the vast arid desert of the Southwest , Vanamee had carried his grief . 
Tell your God to give her back to me , he repeated with fierce insistence . 
He can give her back to me if He only will , Vanamee cried . 
Sarria , you must help me . 
I tell you I warn you , sir , I can't last much longer under it . 
My head is all wrong with it I've no more hold on my mind . 
Something must happen or I shall lose my senses . 
I am breaking down under it all , my body and my mind alike . 
Bring her to me make God show her to me . 
If all tales are true , it would not be the first time . 
If I cannot have her , at least let me see her as she was , real , earthly , not her spirit , her ghost . 
I want her real self , undefiled again . 
If this is dementia , then let me be demented . 
But help me , you and your God create the delusion , do the miracle . 
Stop ! cried the priest again , shaking him roughly by the shoulder . 
This is dementia but I shall NOT let you be demented . 
Think of what you are saying . 
Bring her back to you ! Is that the way of God ? I thought you were a man this is the talk of a weak minded girl . 
Vanamee stirred abruptly in his place , drawing a long breath and looking about him vaguely , as if he came to himself . 
You are right , he muttered . 
I hardly know what I am saying at times . 
Perhaps that is what I mean . 
Perhaps I want only the delusion , after all . 
Sarria did not reply , and there was a long silence . 
In the damp south corners of the walls a frog began to croak at exact intervals . 
Otherwise the stillness was profound . 
A little later , the priest's cigar , long since out , slipped from his fingers to the ground . 
He began to nod gently . 
Asleep , sir ? The other started , rubbing his eyes . 
Upon my word , I believe I was . 
Better go to bed , sir . 
I think I shall sit out here a little longer . 
Well , perhaps I would be better off in bed . 
YOUR bed is always ready for you here whenever you want to use it . 
No I shall go back to Quien Sabe later . 
Good night , my boy . 
For a long time he sat motionless in his place , his elbows on his knees , his chin propped in his hands . 
The minutes passed then the hours . 
The moon climbed steadily higher among the stars . 
Vanamee rolled and smoked cigarette after cigarette , the blue haze of smoke hanging motionless above his head , or drifting in slowly weaving filaments across the open spaces of the garden . 
Now that the priest had left him , the same exaltation of spirit that had seized upon Vanamee earlier in the evening , by degrees grew big again in his mind and imagination . 
On the bench he had quitted he and Angele had often sat . 
Here by the crumbling sun dial , he recalled the night when he had kissed her for the first time . 
Brusquely Vanamee turned away from the prospect . 
The Seed ranch was dark at this time of the year , and flowerless . 
Far off toward its centre , he had caught a brief glimpse of the house where Angele had lived , and a faint light burning in its window . 
But he turned from it sharply . 
The deep seated travail of his grief abruptly reached the paroxysm . 
With long strides he crossed the garden and reentered the Mission church itself , plunging into the coolness of its atmosphere as into a bath . 
What he searched for he did not know , or , rather , did not define . 
Before the chancel rail of the altar , under the sanctuary lamp , Vanamee sank upon his knees , his arms folded upon the rail , his head bowed down upon them . 
He prayed , with what words he could not say for what he did not understand for help , merely , for relief , for an Answer to his cry . 
It was upon that , at length , that his disordered mind concentrated itself , an Answer he demanded , he implored an Answer . 
But the Answer was not in the church . 
The Christ in agony on the Cross was but a lamentable vision of tormented anatomy , grey flesh , spotted with crimson . 
Vanamee rose , turning his back upon the altar with a vague gesture of despair . 
He crossed the church , and issuing from the low arched door opposite the pulpit , once more stepped out into the garden . 
Here , at least , was reality . 
The warm , still air descended upon him like a cloak , grateful , comforting , dispelling the chill that lurked in the damp mould of plaster and crumbling adobe . 
But now he found his way across the garden on the other side of the fountain , where , ranged against the eastern wall , were nine graves . 
Here Angele was buried , in the smallest grave of them all , marked by the little headstone , with its two dates , only sixteen years apart . 
To this spot , at last , he had returned , after the years spent in the desert , the wilderness after all the wanderings of the Long Trail . 
Here , if ever , he must have a sense of her nearness . 
He bent down , dropping upon one knee , a hand upon the headstone , and read again the inscription . 
The pent up grief of nearly twenty years rose again within his heart , and overflowed , irresistible , violent , passionate . 
There was no one to see , no one to hear . 
Vanamee had no thought of restraint . 
He no longer wrestled with his pain strove against it . 
There was even a sense of relief in permitting himself to be overcome . 
But the reaction from this outburst was equally violent . 
Vanamee was no longer master of himself no longer knew what he was doing . 
He no longer reckoned with Heaven . 
He arrogated their powers to himself struggled to be , of his own unaided might , stronger than death , more powerful than the grave . 
He had demanded of Sarria that God should restore Angele to him , but now he appealed directly to Angele herself . 
As he lay there , his arms clasped about her grave , she seemed so near to him that he fancied she MUST hear . 
But the Answer was not in the Grave . 
Vanamee lifted his head , looking about him with unseeing eyes , trembling with the exertion of his vain effort . 
But he could not as yet allow himself to despair . 
Never before had that curious power of attraction failed him . 
If it was only a self delusion , an hallucination , he told himself that he would be content . 
Almost of its own accord , his distorted mind concentrated itself again , every thought , all the power of his will riveting themselves upon Angele . 
As if she were alive , he summoned her to him . 
His eyes , fixed upon the name cut into the headstone , contracted , the pupils growing small , his fists shut tight , his nerves braced rigid . 
For a few seconds he stood thus , breathless , expectant , awaiting the manifestation , the Miracle . 
Then , without knowing why , hardly conscious of what was transpiring , he found that his glance was leaving the headstone , was turning from the grave . 
Not only this , but his whole body was following the direction of his eyes . 
At first , he thought this was because he had allowed his will to weaken , the concentrated power of his mind to grow slack . 
And once more turning toward the grave , he banded all his thoughts together in a consummate effort , his teeth grinding together , his hands pressed to his forehead . 
Instead of the Answer he demanded , that inexplicable counter influence cut across the current of his thought . 
Strive as he would against it , he must veer to the north , toward the pear trees . 
Obeying it , he turned , and , still wondering , took a step in that direction , then another and another . 
He could no longer keep his eyes upon the headstone , could no longer think of the grave and what it held . 
He must face the north he must be drawn toward the pear trees , and there left standing in their shadow , looking out aimlessly over the Seed ranch , wondering , bewildered . 
Farther than this the influence never drew him , but up to this point the line of pear trees it was not to be resisted . 
But Vanamee's unhappiness was too keen this night for him to dwell long upon the vagaries of his mind . 
To his fancy , she came to him again . 
He put himself back many years . 
He saw himself as another person , arriving at this , their rendezvous . 
All day long she had been in his mind . 
All day long he had looked forward to this quiet hour that belonged to her . 
He could see nothing , but , by and by , he heard a step , a gentle rustle of the grass on the slope of the hill pressed under an advancing foot . 
His glance shot swiftly out across the night , unconsciously following the direction from which Angele used to come to him . 
Come to me now , he exclaimed under his breath , tense and rigid with the vast futile effort of his will . 
Come to me now , now . 
Don't you hear me , Angele ? You must , you must come . 
Suddenly Vanamee returned to himself with the abruptness of a blow . 
He half raised himself from the ground . 
Swiftly his scattered wits readjusted themselves . 
Never more sane , never more himself , he rose to his feet and stood looking off into the night across the Seed ranch . 
What was it ? he murmured , bewildered . 
He looked around him from side to side , as if to get in touch with reality once more . 
He looked at his hands , at the rough bark of the pear tree next which he stood , at the streaked and rain eroded walls of the Mission and garden . 
The exaltation of his mind calmed itself the unnatural strain under which he laboured slackened . 
He became thoroughly master of himself again , matter of fact , practical , keen . 
It was vague , intangible , appealing only to some strange , nameless sixth sense , but none the less perceptible . 
It had not returned to him empty handed . 
It had come back , but now there was a change mysterious , illusive . 
There were no words for this that had transpired . 
But for the moment , one thing only was certain . 
The night was no longer voiceless , the dark was no longer empty . 
The night shut down once more . 
There was no sound nothing stirred . 
For the moment , Vanamee stood transfixed , struck rigid in his place , stupefied , his eyes staring , breathless with utter amazement . 
Then , step by step , he shrank back into the deeper shadow , treading with the infinite precaution of a prowling leopard . 
A qualm of something very much like fear seized upon him . 
But immediately on the heels of this first impression came the doubt of his own senses . 
Whatever had happened had been so ephemeral , so faint , so intangible , that now he wondered if he had not deceived himself , after all . 
Surely , there had been Something . 
And from that moment began for him the most poignant uncertainty of mind . 
Gradually he drew back into the garden , holding his breath , listening to every faintest sound , walking upon tiptoe . 
He reached the fountain , and wetting his hands , passed them across his forehead and eyes . 
Once more he stood listening . 
Troubled , disturbed , Vanamee went away , passing out of the garden , descending the hill . 
On the wooden chair at the bed head , stood the kerosene lamp , by the light of which he had been reading the previous evening . 
Beside it was a paper bag of dried prunes , and the limp volume of Copperfield , the place marked by a slip of paper torn from the edge of the bag . 
Annixter slept soundly , making great work of the business , unable to take even his rest gracefully . 
His eyes were shut so tight that the skin at their angles was drawn into puckers . 
Under his pillow , his two hands were doubled up into fists . 
His first act was to take down the alarm clock and stifle its prolonged whirring under the pillows and blankets . 
For upwards of three minutes he alternately dozed and woke , his head and the whole upper half of his body sagging abruptly sideways from moment to moment . 
On the floor , at the bedside and before the bureau , were two oval rag carpet rugs . 
In the corners of the room were muddy boots , a McClellan saddle , a surveyor's transit , an empty coal hod and a box of iron bolts and nuts . 
Strangely enough , Annixter's clothes were disposed of on the single chair with the precision of an old maid . 
The Quien Sabe ranch house was a six room affair , all on one floor . 
By no excess of charity could it have been called a home . 
Annixter was a wealthy man he could have furnished his dwelling with quite as much elegance as that of Magnus Derrick . 
While he was thus occupied , the butcher's cart from Bonneville drove into the yard with the day's supply of meat . 
This cart also brought the Bonneville paper and the mail of the previous night . 
In the bundle of correspondence that the butcher handed to Annixter that morning , was a telegram from Osterman , at that time on his second trip to Los Angeles . 
It read Flotation of company in this district assured . 
Have secured services of desirable party . 
Am now in position to sell you your share stock , as per original plan . 
Annixter grunted as he tore the despatch into strips . 
Well , he muttered , that part is settled , then . 
He made a little pile of the torn strips on the top of the unlighted stove , and burned them carefully , scowling down into the flicker of fire , thoughtful and preoccupied . 
He knew very well what Osterman referred to by Flotation of company , and also who was the desirable party he spoke of . 
A committee had been formed to finance the affair Osterman , old Broderson , Annixter himself , and , with reservations , hardly more than a looker on , Harran Derrick . 
Of this committee , Osterman was considered chairman . 
Magnus Derrick had formally and definitely refused his adherence to the scheme . 
He was trying to steer a middle course . 
His position was difficult , anomalous . 
If freight rates were cut through the efforts of the members of the committee , he could not very well avoid taking advantage of the new schedule . 
He would be the gainer , though sharing neither the risk nor the expense . 
But , meanwhile , the days were passing the primary elections were drawing nearer . 
He had put himself in touch with Disbrow , the political man of the Denver , Pueblo and Mojave road , and had had two interviews with him . 
It needs no seventh daughter of a seventh daughter to foresee that these gentlemen will be disappointed . 
Rot ! vociferated Annixter to himself as he finished . 
He rolled the paper into a wad and hurled it from him . 
And my improvements ! I made the land valuable by improving it , irrigating it , draining it , and cultivating it . 
The most abiding impression that Genslinger's editorial made upon him was , that possibly the Mercury was not subsidised by the corporation after all . 
If it was Genslinger would not have been led into making his mistake as to the value of the land . 
Annixter called to mind the explicit terms of the agreement between himself and the railroad , and dismissed the matter from his mind . 
He lit a cigar , put on his hat and went out . 
The morning was fine , the air nimble , brisk . 
On the summit of the skeleton like tower of the artesian well , the windmill was turning steadily in a breeze from the southwest . 
The water in the irrigating ditch was well up . 
There was no cloud in the sky . 
But on his way to the barns , Annixter was obliged to pass by the open door of the dairy house . 
Annixter turned into the dairy house , pausing on the threshold , looking about him . 
Hilma stood bathed from head to foot in the torrent of sunlight that poured in upon her from the three wide open windows . 
She was charming , delicious , radiant of youth , of health , of well being . 
The whiteness of her skin under the caress of this hale , vigorous morning light was dazzling , pure , of a fineness beyond words . 
Beneath the sweet modulation of her chin , the reflected light from the burnished copper vessel she was carrying set a vibration of pale gold . 
On the threshold , Annixter took off his hat . 
Good morning , Miss Hilma . 
Hilma , who had set down the copper can on top of the vat , turned about quickly . 
Well , began Annixter vaguely , how are you getting along down here ? Oh , very fine . 
To day , there is not so much to do . 
We drew the whey hours ago , and now we are just done putting the curd to press . 
Wouldn't they do for mirrors , sir ? And the copper things . 
I have scrubbed and scrubbed . 
Oh , you can look into the tiniest corners , everywhere , you won't find so much as the littlest speck of dirt or grease . 
I love CLEAN things , and this room is my own particular place . 
You know , I never see the sun set that it don't make me a little sad yes , always , just a little . 
Isn't it funny ? I should want it to be day all the time . 
And when the day is gloomy and dark , I am just as sad as if a very good friend of mine had left me . 
I was afraid in the dark . 
Just imagine , and now I am nineteen a young lady . 
You were , hey ? observed Annixter , for the sake of saying something . 
Afraid in the dark ? What of ghosts ? N no I don't know what . 
I wanted the light , I wanted She drew a deep breath , turning towards the window and spreading her pink finger tips to the light . 
See , put your hand there here on the top of the vat like that . 
It's only wicked people that love the dark . 
And the wicked things are always done and planned in the dark , I think . 
Perhaps , too , that's why I hate things that are mysterious things that I can't see , that happen in the dark . 
She wrinkled her nose with a little expression of aversion . 
Maybe that's why I am afraid in the dark or was . 
I shouldn't like to think that anything could happen around me that I couldn't see or understand or explain . 
She was yet a great child , ignoring the fact that she had ever grown up , taking a child's interest in her immediate surroundings , direct , straightforward , plain . 
Obliquely , and from between his narrowed lids , Annixter scrutinised her from time to time , more and more won over by her adorable freshness , her clean , fine youth . 
The clumsiness that he usually experienced in the presence of women was wearing off . 
Hilma Tree's direct simplicity put him at his ease . 
He began to wonder if he dared to kiss Hilma , and if he did dare , how she would take it . 
A spark of suspicion flickered up in his mind . 
Did not her manner imply , vaguely , an invitation ? One never could tell with feemales . 
That was why she was talking so much , no doubt , holding him there , affording the opportunity . 
Aha ! She had best look out , or he would take her at her word . 
Oh , I had forgotten , suddenly exclaimed Hilma , the very thing I wanted to show you the new press . 
You remember I asked for one last month ? This is it . 
See , this is how it works . 
Here is where the curds go look . 
And this cover is screwed down like this , and then you work the lever this way . 
My , but that takes strength , she panted , looking up at him and smiling . 
But isn't it a fine press ? Just what we needed . 
And , Annixter cleared his throat , and where do you keep the cheeses and the butter ? He thought it very likely that these were in the cellar of the dairy . 
In the cellar , answered Hilma . 
Down here , see ? She raised the flap of the cellar door at the end of the room . 
Would you like to see ? Come down I'll show you . 
She went before him down into the cool obscurity underneath , redolent of new cheese and fresh butter . 
Annixter followed , a certain excitement beginning to gain upon him . 
He was almost sure now that Hilma wanted him to kiss her . 
At all events , one could but try . 
But , as yet , he was not absolutely sure . 
Suppose he had been mistaken in her suppose she should consider herself insulted and freeze him with an icy stare . 
Annixter winced at the very thought of it . 
Better let the whole business go , and get to work . 
He was wasting half the morning . 
He afraid ! He , Annixter , afraid of a fool , feemale girl . 
Why , he owed it to himself as a man to go as far as he could . 
He told himself that that goat Osterman would have kissed Hilma Tree weeks ago . 
At the same time , his courage remained with him . 
He was not afraid to try . 
He felt a greater respect for himself because of this . 
The thing was a failure , and at once he realised that nothing had been further from Hilma's mind than the idea of his kissing her . 
Her eyes opened wide with a childlike look , more of astonishment than anger . 
She was surprised , out of all measure , discountenanced , taken all aback , and when she found her breath , gave voice to a great Oh of dismay and distress . 
Then , suddenly , with a quick , indefinite gesture of one arm , he exclaimed Good bye , I I'm sorry . 
He turned away , striding up the stairs , crossing the dairy room , and regained the open air , raging and furious . 
He turned toward the barns , clapping his hat upon his head , muttering the while under his breath Oh , you goat ! You beastly fool PIP . 
Good LORD , what an ass you've made of yourself now ! Suddenly he resolved to put Hilma Tree out of his thoughts . 
The matter was interfering with his work . 
This kind of thing was sure not earning any money . 
He shook himself as though freeing his shoulders of an irksome burden , and turned his entire attention to the work nearest at hand . 
And a precious long time you've been at it , too , Annixter declared . 
Well , you know the rain Oh , rot the rain ! I work in the rain . 
You and your unions make me sick . 
But , Mr. Annixter , we couldn't have begun painting in the rain . 
The job would have been spoiled . 
Hoh , yes , spoiled . 
Maybe it would , and then , again , maybe it wouldn't . 
But when the foreman had left him , Annixter could not forbear a growl of satisfaction . 
It could not be denied that the barn was superb , monumental even . 
Almost any one of the other barns in the county could be swung , bird cage fashion , inside of it , with room to spare . 
In every sense , the barn was precisely what Annixter had hoped of it . 
In his pleasure over the success of his idea , even Hilma for the moment was forgotten . 
And , now , murmured Annixter , I'll give that dance in it . 
I'll make 'em sit up . 
It occurred to him that he had better set about sending out the invitations for the affair . 
He was puzzled to decide just how the thing should be managed , and resolved that it might be as well to consult Magnus and Mrs. Derrick . 
He turned about on his heel with a last look at the barn , and set off toward the stable . 
He had decided to have his horse saddled and ride over to Bonneville by way of Los Muertos . 
He would make a day of it , would see Magnus , Harran , old Broderson and some of the business men of Bonneville . 
He crossed the irrigating ditch and gained the trail the short cut over into Los Muertos , by way of Hooven's . 
On the other side of the right of way , Annixter was obliged to open the gate in Derrick's line fence . 
He managed this without dismounting , swearing at the horse the while , and spurring him continually . 
But once inside the gate he cantered forward briskly . 
Hello , Bismarck , said Annixter , drawing up beside him . 
What are YOU doing here ? I thought the Governor was going to manage without his tenants this year . 
Ach , Meest'r Ennixter , cried the other , straightening up . 
Ach , dat's you , eh ? Ach , you bedt he doand menege mitout me . 
Me , I gotta stay . 
I talk der straighd talk mit der Governor . 
Sieben yahr I hef bei der rench ge stopped yais , sir . 
Efery oder sohn of a guhn bei der plaice ged der sach bud me . 
Eh ? Wat you tink von dose ting ? I think that's a crazy looking monkey wrench you've got there , observed Annixter , glancing at the instrument in Hooven's hand . 
Ach , dot wrainch , returned Hooven . 
Soh ! Wail , I tell you dose ting now whair I got 'em . 
Say , you see dot wrainch . 
Dat's not Emericen wrainch at alle . 
I got 'em at Gravelotte der day we licked der stuffun oudt der Frainch , ach , you bedt . 
Me , I pelong to der Wurtemberg redgimend , dot dey use to suppord der batterie von der Brince von Hohenlohe . 
Den vhen der night come dey say we hev der great victorie made . 
Vhat do I see von der bettle ? Noddun . 
Den we gedt oop und maerch und maerch alle night , und in der morgen we hear dose cennon egain , hell oaf der way , far off , I doand know vhair . 
Bretty qnick , ach , Gott his face flamed scarlet , Ach , du lieber Gott ! Bretty zoon , dere wass der Kaiser , glose bei , und Fritz , Unzer Fritz . 
And the monkey wrench ? Ach , I pick 'um oop vhen der batterie go . 
Der cennoniers hef forgedt und leaf 'um . 
I carry 'um in der sack . 
I tink I use 'um vhen I gedt home in der business . 
I was maker von vagons in Carlsruhe , und I nef'r gedt home again . 
Vhen der war hef godt over , I go beck to Ulm und gedt marriet , und den I gedt demn sick von der armie . 
Vhen I gedt der release , I clair oudt , you bedt . 
First , New Yor ruk den Milwaukee den Sbringfieldt Illinoy den Galifornie , und heir I stay . 
And the Fatherland ? Ever want to go back ? Wail , I tell you dose ting , Meest'r Ennixter . 
Alle ways , I tink a lot oaf Shairmany , und der Kaiser , und nef'r I forgedt Gravelotte . 
Budt , say , I tell you dose ting . 
Vhair der wife is , und der kinder der leedle girl Hilda DERE IS DER VATERLAND . 
Eh ? Emerica , dat's my gountry now , und dere , he pointed behind him to the house under the mammoth oak tree on the Lower Road , dat's my home . 
Dat's goot enough Vaterland for me . 
Annixter gathered up the reins , about to go on . 
So you like America , do you , Bismarck ? he said . 
Who do you vote for ? Emerica ? I doand know , returned the other , insistently . 
Alle von we Shairmens yoost like dot . 
Shairmany , dot's hell oaf some fine plaice , sure . 
Budt der Vaterland iss vhair der home und der wife und kinder iss . 
Eh ? Yes ? Voad ? Ach , no . 
Me , I nef'r voad . 
I doand bodder der haid mit dose ting . 
I maig der wheat grow , und ged der braid fur der wife und Hilda , dot's all . 
Good bye , commented Annixter , moving off . 
Hooven , the washer replaced , turned to his work again , starting up the horses . 
The seeder advanced , whirring . 
Ach , Hilda , leedle girl , he cried , hold tight bei der shdrap on . 
Hey MULE ! Hoop ! Gedt oop , you . 
In a few moments , he had crossed Broderson Creek and had entered upon the Home ranch of Los Muertos . 
Nothing else was in sight . 
The brown earth , smooth , unbroken , was as a limitless , mud coloured ocean . 
Annixter turned his horse from the road and rode across the ranch land to meet this new object of interest . 
As the spot grew larger , it resolved itself into constituents , a collection of units its shape grew irregular , fragmentary . 
A disintegrated , nebulous confusion advanced toward Annixter , preceded , as he discovered on nearer approach , by a medley of faint sounds . 
Now it was no longer a spot , but a column , a column that moved , accompanied by spots . 
As Annixter lessened the distance , these spots resolved themselves into buggies or men on horseback that kept pace with the advancing column . 
There were horses in the column itself . 
At first glance , it appeared as if there were nothing else , a riderless squadron tramping steadily over the upturned plough land of the ranch . 
The horses were in lines , six abreast , harnessed to machines . 
The noise increased , defined itself . 
There was a shout or two occasionally a horse blew through his nostrils with a prolonged , vibrating snort . 
The click and clink of metal work was incessant , the machines throwing off a continual rattle of wheels and cogs and clashing springs . 
The column approached nearer was close at hand . 
The noises mingled to a subdued uproar , a bewildering confusion the impact of innumerable hoofs was a veritable rumble . 
When the drills had passed , Annixter turned and rode back to the Lower Road , over the land now thick with seed . 
He did not wonder that the seeding on Los Muertos seemed to be hastily conducted . 
Magnus and Harran Derrick had not yet been able to make up the time lost at the beginning of the season , when they had waited so long for the ploughs to arrive . 
They had been behindhand all the time . 
On Annixter's ranch , the land had not only been harrowed , as well as seeded , but in some cases , cross harrowed as well . 
The labour of putting in the vast crop was over . 
Now there was nothing to do but wait , while the seed silently germinated nothing to do but watch for the wheat to come up . 
She had been washing her hair , and the light brown locks that yet retained so much of their brightness , were carefully spread in the sun over the back of her chair . 
Annixter could not but remark that , spite of her more than fifty years , Annie Derrick was yet rather pretty . 
The night before this , after Magnus and his wife had gone to bed , they had lain awake for hours , staring up into the dark , talking , talking . 
He had told her of Osterman's scheme of a fraudulent election to seat a Board of Railroad Commissioners , who should be nominees of the farming interests . 
Magnus and his wife had talked this matter over and over again and the same discussion , begun immediately after supper the evening before , had lasted till far into the night . 
None better than she knew the iron integrity of her husband's character . 
Now , at last , there seemed to be a change . 
Long continued oppression , petty tyranny , injustice and extortion had driven him to exasperation . 
S. Behrman's insults still rankled . 
He seemed nearly ready to countenance Osterman's scheme . 
The very fact that he was willing to talk of it to her so often and at such great length , was proof positive that it occupied his mind . 
Time was when Magnus would have forbidden his son to so much as recognise a dishonourable man . 
Always it had issued triumphant from the fight always S. Behrman , the Corporation's champion , remained upon the field as victor , placid , unperturbed , unassailable . 
Success , to her mind , was almost impossible . 
Annie Derrick feared the railroad . 
No , it was better to submit , to resign oneself to the inevitable . 
She obliterated herself , shrinking from the harshness of the world , striving , with vain hands , to draw her husband back with her . 
The earth , hitherto grey with dust , was now upturned and brown . 
The terror of sheer bigness grew slowly in her mind loneliness beyond words gradually enveloped her . 
She was lost in all these limitless reaches of space . 
Had she been abandoned in mid ocean , in an open boat , her terror could hardly have been greater . 
She felt vividly that certain uncongeniality which , when all is said , forever remains between humanity and the earth which supports it . 
Such thoughts as these did not take shape distinctly in her mind . 
She could not have told herself exactly what it was that disquieted her . 
She only received the vague sensation of these things , as it were a breath of wind upon her face , confused , troublous , an indefinite sense of hostility in the air . 
But the sight of him only diverted her mind to the other trouble . 
She could not but regard him with aversion . 
However , there was little trace of enmity in her greeting . 
Her hair was still spread , like a broad patch of back , and she made that her excuse for not getting up . 
Is Harran anywhere about ? he asked . 
I'd like to see Harran , too . 
No , said Mrs. Derrick , Harran went to Bonneville early this morning . 
She glanced toward Annixter nervously , without turning her head , lest she should disturb her outspread hair . 
What is it you want to see Mr. Derrick about ? she inquired hastily . 
Is it about this plan to elect a Railroad Commission ? Magnus does not approve of it , she declared with energy . 
He told me so last night . 
Annixter moved about awkwardly where he sat , smoothing down with his hand the one stiff lock of yellow hair that persistently stood up from his crown like an Indian's scalp lock . 
At once his suspicions were all aroused . 
Ah ! this feemale woman was trying to get a hold on him , trying to involve him in a petticoat mess , trying to cajole him . 
Upon the instant , he became very crafty an excess of prudence promptly congealed his natural impulses . 
In an actual spasm of caution , he scarcely trusted himself to speak , terrified lest he should commit himself to something . 
He glanced about apprehensively , praying that Magnus might join them speedily , relieving the tension . 
I came to see about giving a dance in my new barn , he answered , scowling into the depths of his hat , as though reading from notes he had concealed there . 
I wanted to ask how I should send out the invites . 
I thought of just putting an ad . 
But as he spoke , Presley had come up behind Annixter in time to get the drift of the conversation , and now observed That's nonsense , Buck . 
You're not giving a public ball . 
You MUST send out invitations . 
Hello , Presley , you there ? exclaimed Annixter , turning round . 
Send out invitations ? repeated Annixter uneasily . 
Why must I ? Because that's the only way to do . 
It is , is it ? answered Annixter , perplexed and troubled . 
No other man of his acquaintance could have so contradicted Annixter without provoking a quarrel upon the instant . 
Why the young rancher , irascible , obstinate , belligerent , should invariably defer to the poet , was an inconsistency never to be explained . 
It was with great surprise that Mrs. Derrick heard him continue Well , I suppose you know what you're talking about , Pres . 
Must have written invites , hey ? Of course . 
Typewritten ? Why , what an ass you are , Buck , observed Presley calmly . 
However , before Annixter could reply , Magnus came out on the porch , erect , grave , freshly shaven . 
Without realising what he was doing , Annixter instinctively rose to his feet . 
It was as though Magnus was a commander in chief of an unseen army , and he a subaltern . 
There was some little conversation as to the proposed dance , and then Annixter found an excuse for drawing the Governor aside . 
Annixter came at once to the main point . 
I got a wire from Osterman this morning , Governor , and , well we've got Disbrow . 
That means that the Denver , Pueblo and Mojave is back of us . 
There's half the fight won , first off . 
Osterman bribed him , I suppose , observed Magnus . 
Annixter raised a shoulder vexatiously . 
You've got to pay for what you get , he returned . 
You don't get something for nothing , I guess . 
Governor , he went on , I don't see how you can stay out of this business much longer . 
You see how it will be . 
We're going to win , and I don't see how you can feel that it's right of you to let us do all the work and stand all the expense . 
There's never been a movement of any importance that went on around you that you weren't the leader in it . 
All Tulare County , all the San Joaquin , for that matter , knows you . 
They want a leader , and they are looking to you . 
I know how you feel about politics nowadays . 
But , Governor , standards have changed since your time everybody plays the game now as we are playing it the most honourable men . 
You can't play it any other way , and , pshaw ! if the right wins out in the end , that's the main thing . 
We want you in this thing , and we want you bad . 
You've been chewing on this affair now a long time . 
Have you made up your mind ? Do you come in ? I tell you what , you've got to look at these things in a large way . 
You've got to judge by results . 
Well , now , what do you think ? Do you come in ? Magnus's glance left Annixter's face , and for an instant sought the ground . 
His frown lowered , but now it was in perplexity , rather than in anger . 
His mind was troubled , harassed with a thousand dissensions . 
But one of Magnus's strongest instincts , one of his keenest desires , was to be , if only for a short time , the master . 
To control men had ever been his ambition submission of any kind , his greatest horror . 
His energy stirred within him , goaded by the lash of his anger , his sense of indignity , of insult . 
To be once more powerful , to command , to dominate . 
His thin lips pressed themselves together the nostrils of his prominent hawk like nose dilated , his erect , commanding figure stiffened unconsciously . 
What if this were his chance , after all , come at last after all these years . 
His chance ! The instincts of the old time gambler , the most redoubtable poker player of El Dorado County , stirred at the word . 
Was this his Chance ? All of a sudden , it seemed to him that it was . 
To seize it meant achievement , fame , influence , prestige , possibly great wealth . 
I am so sorry to interrupt , said Mrs. Derrick , as she came up . 
I hope Mr. Annixter will excuse me , but I want Magnus to open the safe for me . 
I have lost the combination , and I must have some money . 
Phelps is going into town , and I want him to pay some bills for me . 
Can't you come right away , Magnus ? Phelps is ready and waiting . 
Annixter struck his heel into the ground with a suppressed oath . 
Always these fool feemale women came between him and his plans , mixing themselves up in his affairs . 
Magnus had been on the very point of saying something , perhaps committing himself to some course of action , and , at precisely the wrong moment , his wife had cut in . 
Presley met him at the porch . 
He was going into town with Phelps , and proposed to Annixter that he should accompany them . 
I want to go over and see old Broderson , Annixter objected . 
But Presley informed him that Broderson had gone to Bonneville earlier in the morning . 
He had seen him go past in his buckboard . 
The three men set off , Phelps and Annixter on horseback , Presley on his bicycle . 
When they had gone , Mrs. Derrick sought out her husband in the office of the ranch house . 
She was at her prettiest that morning , her cheeks flushed with excitement , her innocent , wide open eyes almost girlish . 
What was it he was saying to you just now , she exclaimed , as she came through the gate in the green painted wire railing of the office . 
What was Mr. Annixter saying ? I know . 
He was trying to get you to join him , trying to persuade you to be dishonest , wasn't that it ? Tell me , Magnus , wasn't that it ? Magnus nodded . 
His wife drew close to him , putting a hand on his shoulder . 
Why , before this , you would have been insulted if any one thought you would even consider anything like dishonesty . 
Magnus , it would break my heart if you joined Mr. Annixter and Mr. Osterman . 
Why , you couldn't be the same man to me afterward you , who have kept yourself so clean till now . 
At length , he said , drawing a deep breath I am troubled , Annie . 
These are the evil days . 
I have much upon my mind . 
Evil days or not , she insisted , promise me this one thing , that you will not join Mr. Annixter's scheme . 
She had taken his hand in both of hers and was looking into his face , her pretty eyes full of pleading . 
Promise me , she repeated give me your word . 
Whatever happens , let me always be able to be proud of you , as I always have been . 
I know you never seriously thought of joining Mr. Annixter , but I am so nervous and frightened sometimes . 
Just to relieve my mind , Magnus , give me your word . 
Why you are right , he answered . 
No , I never thought seriously of it . 
Only for a moment , I was ambitious to be I don't know what what I had hoped to be once well , that is over now . 
Annie , your husband is a disappointed man . 
Give me your word , she insisted . 
We can talk about other things afterward . 
Again Magnus wavered , about to yield to his better instincts and to the entreaties of his wife . 
He began to see how perilously far he had gone in this business . 
He was drifting closer to it every hour . 
Already he was entangled , already his foot was caught in the mesh that was being spun . 
Again all his instincts of honesty revolted . 
No , whatever happened , he would preserve his integrity . 
Always she had influenced his better side . 
At that moment , Magnus's repugnance of the proposed political campaign was at its pitch of intensity . 
He wondered how he had ever allowed himself to so much as entertain the idea of joining with the others . 
Now , he would wrench free , would , in a single instant of power , clear himself of all compromising relations . 
He turned to his wife . 
Upon his lips trembled the promise she implored . 
But suddenly there came to his mind the recollection of his new made pledge to Annixter . 
He had given his word that before arriving at a decision he would have a last interview with him . 
To Magnus , his given word was sacred . 
Though now he wanted to , he could not as yet draw back , could not promise his wife that he would decide to do right . 
The matter must be delayed a few days longer . 
Lamely , he explained this to her . 
Annie Derrick made but little response when he had done . 
Meanwhile , Annixter , Phelps , and Presley continued on their way toward Bonneville . 
But as they drew near to Caraher's saloon and grocery , about half a mile outside of Bonneville , they recognised Harran's horse tied to the railing in front of it . 
Annixter left the others and went in to see Harran . 
It's a mean position for me , Buck . 
I want to help you others , but I do want to play fair . 
I don't know how to play any other way . 
I should like to have a line from the Governor as to how to act , but there's no getting a word out of him these days . 
He seems to want to let me decide for myself . 
Well , look here , put in Annixter . 
Suppose you keep out of the thing till it's all over , and then share and share alike with the Committee on campaign expenses . 
Harran fell thoughtful , his hands in his pockets , frowning moodily at the toe of his boot . 
Then I don't like to go it blind , he hazarded . 
I'm sort of sharing the responsibility of what you do , then . 
And , then I don't want to have any difficulties with the Governor . 
We've always got along well together . 
He wouldn't like it , you know , if I did anything like that . 
Let's stand in with each other in ONE fight . 
Without knowing it , Annixter had touched the right spring . 
I don't know but what you're right , Harran murmured vaguely . 
His sense of discouragement , that feeling of what's the use , was never more oppressive . 
All fair means had been tried . 
The wheat grower was at last with his back to the wall . 
If he chose his own means of fighting , the responsibility must rest upon his enemies , not on himself . 
It's the only way to accomplish anything , he continued , standing in with each other . 
go ahead and see what you can do . 
If the Governor is willing , I'll come in for my share of the campaign fund . 
That's some sense , exclaimed Annixter , shaking him by the hand . 
Half the fight is over already . 
We've got Disbrow you know and the next thing is to get hold of some of those rotten San Francisco bosses . 
Osterman will But Harran interrupted him , making a quick gesture with his hand . 
Don't tell me about it , he said . 
I don't want to know what you and Osterman are going to do . 
If I did , I shouldn't come in . 
Harran went on toward Los Muertos . 
Annixter mounted and rode into Bonneville . 
Bonneville was very lively at all times . 
It was well governed , beautifully clean , full of the energy and strenuous young life of a new city . 
An air of the briskest activity pervaded its streets and sidewalks . 
The business portion of the town , centring about Main Street , was always crowded . 
Annixter , arriving at the Post Office , found himself involved in a scene of swiftly shifting sights and sounds . 
Here and there , on the edge of the sidewalk , were bicycles , wedged into bicycle racks painted with cigar advertisements . 
Upon the asphalt sidewalk itself , soft and sticky with the morning's heat , was a continuous movement . 
Men with large stomachs , wearing linen coats but no vests , laboured ponderously up and down . 
A Chinaman went by , teetering under the weight of his market baskets slung on a pole across his shoulders . 
The Yosemite 'bus and City 'bus passed up the street , on the way from the morning train , each with its two or three passengers . 
On the stone bulkheads of the grass plat around the new City Hall , the usual loafers sat , chewing tobacco , swapping stories . 
In the park were the inevitable array of nursemaids , skylarking couples , and ragged little boys . 
But in the centre of the best business block of the street was a three story building of rough brown stone , set off with plate glass windows and gold lettered signs . 
One of these latter recognised him and came forward . 
Hello , said Annixter abruptly , scowling the while . 
Inside , a man in a frock coat , shoestring necktie , and Stetson hat , sat writing at a roller top desk . 
Over this desk was a vast map of the railroad holdings in the country about Bonneville and Guadalajara , the alternate sections belonging to the Corporation accurately plotted . 
Ruggles was cordial in his welcome of Annixter . 
I want to see about those lands of mine I mean of yours of the railroad's , Annixter commenced at once . 
I want to know when I can buy . 
I'm sick of fooling along like this . 
You have an option on them indefinitely , and , as it is , you don't have to pay the taxes . 
Rot your option ! I want to own them , Annixter declared . 
What have you people got to gain by putting off selling them to us . 
Here this thing has dragged along for over eight years . 
When I came in on Quien Sabe , the understanding was that the lands your alternate sections were to be conveyed to me within a few months . 
The land had not been patented to us then , answered Ruggles . 
Well , it has been now , I guess , retorted Annixter . 
I'm sure I couldn't tell you , Mr. Annixter . 
Annixter crossed his legs weariedly . 
Oh , what's the good of lying , Ruggles ? You know better than to talk that way to me . 
Ruggles's face flushed on the instant , but he checked his answer and laughed instead . 
Oh , if you know so much about it he observed . 
Well , when are you going to sell to me ? I'm only acting for the General Office , Mr. Annixter , returned Ruggles . 
Whenever the Directors are ready to take that matter up , I'll be only too glad to put it through for you . 
As if you didn't know . 
Look here , you're not talking to old Broderson . 
I don't own the 'Mercury , he said . 
Well , your company does . 
If it does , I don't know anything about it . 
Oh , rot ! As if you and Genslinger and S. Behrman didn't run the whole show down here . 
Come on , let's have it , Ruggles . 
What does S. Behrman pay Genslinger for inserting that three inch ad . 
Instead of replying , Annixter drew his check book from his inside pocket . 
Let me take that fountain pen of yours , he said . 
Holding the book on his knee he wrote out a check , tore it carefully from the stub , and laid it on the desk in front of Ruggles . 
What's this ? asked Ruggles . 
Three fourths payment for the sections of railroad land included in my ranch , based on a valuation of two dollars and a half per acre . 
You can have the balance in sixty day notes . 
Ruggles shook his head , drawing hastily back from the check as though it carried contamination . 
I can't touch it , he declared . 
I've no authority to sell to you yet . 
I don't understand you people , exclaimed Annixter . 
I offered to buy of you the same way four years ago and you sang the same song . 
Why , it isn't business . 
You lose the interest on your money . 
of that capital for four years you can figure it out . 
Well , then , I don't see why you're so keen on parting with it . 
You can get seven per cent . 
I want to own my own land , returned Annixter . 
I want to feel that every lump of dirt inside my fence is my personal property . 
Why , the very house I live in now the ranch house stands on railroad ground . 
But , you've an option I tell you I don't want your cursed option . 
I want ownership and it's the same with Magnus Derrick and old Broderson and Osterman and all the ranchers of the county . 
We want to own our land , want to feel we can do as we blame please with it . 
Suppose I should want to sell Quien Sabe . 
I can't sell it as a whole till I've bought of you . 
I can't give anybody a clear title . 
The land has doubled in value ten times over again since I came in on it and improved it . 
It's worth easily twenty an acre now . 
But I can't take advantage of that rise in value so long as you won't sell , so long as I don't own it . 
But , according to you , the railroad can't take advantage of the rise in any case . 
According to you , you can sell for twenty dollars , but we can only get two and a half . 
Who made it worth twenty ? cried Annixter . 
I've improved it up to that figure . 
Genslinger seems to have that idea in his nut , too . 
You ask your boss , you ask S. Behrman , he knows . 
The General Office is pledged to sell to us in preference to any one else , for two and a half . 
Well , observed Ruggles decidedly , tapping the end of his pencil on his desk and leaning forward to emphasise his words , we're not selling NOW . 
That's said and signed , Mr. Annixter . 
Why not ? Come , spit it out . 
What's the bunco game this time ? Because we're not ready . 
No. Oh , go to the devil ! I don't like your tone , Mr. Annixter , returned Ruggles , flushing angrily . 
That's my tip to you and be damned to you , Mr. Cyrus Blackleg Ruggles . 
Annixter liked Dyke , as did every one else in and about Bonneville . 
He paused now to shake hands with the discharged engineer and to ask about his little daughter , Sidney , to whom he knew Dyke was devotedly attached . 
Smartest little tad in Tulare County , asserted Dyke . 
She's getting prettier every day , Mr. Annixter . 
THERE'S a little tad that was just born to be a lady . 
Can recite the whole of 'Snow Bound' without ever stopping . 
You don't believe that , maybe , hey ? Well , it's true . 
She'll be just old enough to enter the Seminary up at Marysville next winter , and if my hop business pays two per cent . 
on the investment , there's where she's going to go . 
How's it coming on ? inquired Annixter . 
The hop ranch ? Prime . 
I've about got the land in shape , and I've engaged a foreman who knows all about hops . 
Everybody will go into the business next year when they see hops go to a dollar , and they'll overstock the market and bust the price . 
But I'm going to get the cream of it now . 
I say two per cent . 
Why , Lord love you , it will pay a good deal more than that . 
Through here ? inquired Annixter , making ready to move off . 
In just a minute , answered Dyke . 
Wait for me and I'll walk down the street with you . 
Annixter grumbled that he was in a hurry , but waited , nevertheless , while Dyke again approached the clerk . 
I shall want some empty cars of you people this fall , he explained . 
I'm a hop raiser now , and I just want to make sure what your rates on hops are . 
I've been told , but I want to make sure . 
Savvy ? There was a long delay while the clerk consulted the tariff schedules , and Annixter fretted impatiently . 
Dyke , growing uneasy , leaned heavily on his elbows , watching the clerk anxiously . 
If the tariff was exorbitant , he saw his plans brought to naught , his money jeopardised , the little tad , Sidney , deprived of her education . 
He began to blame himself that he had not long before determined definitely what the railroad would charge for moving his hops . 
He told himself he was not much of a business man that he managed carelessly . 
Two cents , suddenly announced the clerk with a certain surly indifference . 
Two cents a pound ? Yes , two cents a pound that's in car load lots , of course . 
I won't give you that rate on smaller consignments . 
Yes , car load lots , of course . 
He turned away with a great sigh of relief . 
He sure did have me scared for a minute , he said to Annixter , as the two went down to the street , fiddling and fussing so long . 
Two cents is all right , though . 
That fiddling of his was all put on . 
I know 'em , these railroad heelers . 
He knew I was a discharged employee first off , and he played the game just to make me seem small because I had to ask favours of him . 
I don't suppose the General Office tips its slavees off to act like swine , but there's the feeling through the whole herd of them . 
'Ye got to come to us . 
We let ye live only so long as we choose , and what are ye going to do about it ? If ye don't like it , git out . 
Before the salesman had wrapped them up , Dyke slipped a dime into the toe of each with a wink at Annixter . 
Let the little tad find 'em there , he said behind his hand in a hoarse whisper . 
That'll be one on Sid . 
Where to now ? demanded Annixter as they regained the street . 
I'm going down to the Post Office and then pull out for the ranch . 
Going my way ? Dyke hesitated in some confusion , tugging at the ends of his fine blonde beard . 
I guess I'll leave you here . 
I've got got other things to do up the street . 
The two separated , and Annixter hurried through the crowd to the Post Office , but the mail that had come in on that morning's train was unusually heavy . 
It was nearly half an hour before it was distributed . 
Naturally enough , Annixter placed all the blame of the delay upon the railroad , and delivered himself of some pointed remarks in the midst of the waiting crowd . 
He was irritated to the last degree when he finally emerged upon the sidewalk again , cramming his mail into his pockets . 
One cause of his bad temper was the fact that in the bundle of Quien Sabe letters was one to Hilma Tree in a man's handwriting . 
Huh ! Annixter had growled to himself , that pip Delaney . 
Seems now that I'm to act as go between for 'em . 
Well , maybe that feemale girl gets this letter , and then , again , maybe she don't . 
But suddenly his attention was diverted . 
Directly opposite the Post Office , upon the corner of the street , stood quite the best business building of which Bonneville could boast . 
It was built of Colusa granite , very solid , ornate , imposing . 
Upon the heavy plate of the window of its main floor , in gold and red letters , one read the words Loan and Savings Bank of Tulare County . 
It was of this bank that S. Behrman was president . 
But Annixter promptly discovered that he was not reading at all . 
From time to time the former engineer shot a swift glance out of the corner of his eye up and down the street . 
Annixter jumped at a conclusion . 
An idea suddenly occurred to him . 
Dyke was watching to see if he was observed was waiting an opportunity when no one who knew him should be in sight . 
Annixter stepped back a little , getting a telegraph pole somewhat between him and the other . 
Very interested , he watched what was going on . 
Pretty soon Dyke thrust the paper into his pocket and sauntered slowly to the windows of a stationery store , next the street entrance of S. Behrman's offices . 
Annixter came from behind the telegraph pole with a flush of actual shame upon his face . 
Circumstances were such that a simple business transaction was to Dyke almost culpable , a degradation , a thing to be concealed . 
Borrowing money of S. Behrman , commented Annixter , mortgaging your little homestead to the railroad , putting your neck in the halter . 
Poor fool ! The pity of it . 
Good Lord , your hops must pay you big , now , old man . 
About half way between the two places he overtook Father Sarria trudging back to San Juan , his long cassock powdered with dust . 
He had a wicker crate in one hand , and in the other , in a small square valise , the materials for the Holy Sacrament . 
But he had returned by way of Bonneville to get a crate that had come for him from San Diego . 
He had been notified of its arrival the day before . 
Annixter pulled up and passed the time of day with the priest . 
I don't often get up your way , he said , slowing down his horse to accommodate Sarria's deliberate plodding . 
Sarria wiped the perspiration from his smooth , shiny face . 
You ? Well , with you it is different , he answered . 
But there are a great many Catholics in the county some on your ranch . 
And so few come to the Mission . 
You Americans are not good churchmen . 
Sundays you sleep you read the newspapers . 
Well , there's Vanamee , observed Annixter . 
I suppose he's there early and late . 
Sarria made a sharp movement of interest . 
Ah , Vanamee a strange lad a wonderful character , for all that . 
If there were only more like him . 
I am troubled about him . 
You know I am a very owl at night . 
I come and go about the Mission at all hours . 
Within the week , three times I have seen Vanamee in the little garden by the Mission , and at the dead of night . 
He had come without asking for me . 
He did not see me . 
Once , when I had got up at dawn to ring for early matins , I saw him stealing away out of the garden . 
He must have been there all the night . 
He is pale his cheeks are more sunken than ever . 
There is something wrong with him . 
I can't make it out . 
Suppose you ask him ? Not I. I've enough to bother myself about . 
Vanamee is crazy in the head . 
Some morning he will turn up missing again , and drop out of sight for another three years . 
Best let him alone , Sarria . 
How is that greaser of yours up on Osterman's stock range ? Ah , the poor fellow the poor fellow , returned the other , the tears coming to his eyes . 
He died this morning as you might say , in my arms , painfully , but in the faith , in the faith . 
A lazy , cattle stealing , knife in his boot Dago . 
A really good fellow on better acquaintance . 
Sarria's kindness and good will toward the most outrageous reprobates of the ranches was proverbial . 
He practically supported some half dozen families that lived in forgotten cabins , lost and all but inaccessible , in the far corners of stock range and canyon . 
This particular greaser was the laziest , the dirtiest , the most worthless of the lot . 
But in Sarria's mind , the lout was an object of affection , sincere , unquestioning . 
Of late , during the rascal's sickness , these visits had been almost daily . 
Hardly once did the priest leave the bedside that he did not slip a half dollar into the palm of his wife or oldest daughter . 
And this was but one case out of many . 
His kindliness toward animals was the same . 
A horde of mange corroded curs lived off his bounty , wolfish , ungrateful , often marking him with their teeth , yet never knowing the meaning of a harsh word . 
They were obliged to proceed in single file here , and Annixter , who had allowed the priest to go in front , promptly took notice of the wicker basket he carried . 
Upon his inquiry , Sarria became confused . 
It was a basket that he had had sent down to him from the city . 
Well , I know but what's in it ? Why I'm sure ah , poultry a chicken or two . 
Fancy breed ? Yes , yes , that's it , a fancy breed . 
At the ranch house , where they arrived toward five o'clock , Annixter insisted that the priest should stop long enough for a glass of sherry . 
Annixter brought out the decanter of sherry and glasses , and the two drank to each other's health . 
A second , similarly hooded , followed . 
The pair , stupefied in their headgear , stood rigid and bewildered in their tracks , clucking uneasily . 
Their tails were closely sheared . 
Their legs , thickly muscled , and extraordinarily long , were furnished with enormous cruel looking spurs . 
Annixter looked once at the pair , then shouted with laughter . 
'Poultry' 'a chicken or two' 'fancy breed' ho ! yes , I should think so . 
Oh , Lord ! Why , Sarria , this is as good a grind as I ever heard . 
There's the Spanish cropping out , after all . 
As Annixter turned about to reenter the house , he found himself almost face to face with Hilma Tree . 
She had come to set the table for Annixter's supper . 
Taken all aback by the suddenness of the encounter , Annixter ejaculated an abrupt and senseless , Excuse me . 
Resolutely , and taking a quick advantage of his opportunity , he followed her into the dining room . 
I see that dog has turned up , he announced with brisk cheerfulness . 
That Irish setter I was asking about . 
Hilma , a swift , pink flush deepening the delicate rose of her cheeks , did not reply , except by nodding her head . 
She flung the table cloth out from under her arms across the table , spreading it smooth , with quick little caresses of her hands . 
There was a moment's silence . 
Then Annixter said Here's a letter for you . 
He laid it down on the table near her , and Hilma picked it up . 
And see here , Miss Hilma , Annixter continued , about that this morning I suppose you think I am a first class mucker . 
If it will do any good to apologise , why , I will . 
I want to be friends with you . 
I made a bad mistake , and started in the wrong way . 
I don't know much about women people . 
I want you to forget about that this morning , and not think I am a galoot and a mucker . 
Will you do it ? Will you be friends with me ? Hilma set the plate and coffee cup by Annixter's place before answering , and Annixter repeated his question . 
Then she drew a deep , quick breath , the flush in her cheeks returning . 
I think it was it was so wrong of you , she murmured . 
Oh ! you don't know how it hurt me . 
I cried oh , for an hour . 
Well , that's just it , returned Annixter vaguely , moving his head uneasily . 
I didn't know what kind of a girl you were I mean , I made a mistake . 
I thought it didn't make much difference . 
I thought all feemales were about alike . 
I hope you know now , murmured Hilma ruefully . 
I've paid enough to have you find out . 
I cried you don't know . 
Why , it hurt me worse than anything I can remember . 
I hope you know now . 
Well , I do know now , he exclaimed . 
It wasn't so much that you tried to do what you did , answered Hilma , the single deep swell from her waist to her throat rising and falling in her emotion . 
It was that you thought that you could that anybody could that wanted to that I held myself so cheap . 
Oh ! she cried , with a sudden sobbing catch in her throat , I never can forget it , and you don't know what it means to a girl . 
Well , that's just what I do want , he repeated . 
I want you to forget it and have us be good friends . 
In his embarrassment , Annixter could think of no other words . 
He kept reiterating again and again during the pauses of the conversation I want you to forget it . 
Will you ? Will you forget it that this morning , and have us be good friends ? He could see that her trouble was keen . 
He was astonished that the matter should be so grave in her estimation . 
After all , what was it that a girl should be kissed ? But he wanted to regain his lost ground . 
Will you forget it , Miss Hilma ? I want you to like me . 
She took a clean napkin from the sideboard drawer and laid it down by the plate . 
I I do want you to like me , persisted Annixter . 
I want you to forget all about this business and like me . 
Annixter saw the tears in her eyes . 
How about that ? Will you forget it ? Will you will will you LIKE me ? She shook her head . 
No what ? You won't like me ? Is that it ? Hilma , blinking at the napkin through her tears , nodded to say , Yes , that was it . 
Annixter hesitated a moment , frowning , harassed and perplexed . 
You don't like me at all , hey ? At length Hilma found her speech . 
In her low voice , lower and more velvety than ever , she said No I don't like you at all . 
Then , as the tears suddenly overpowered her , she dashed a hand across her eyes , and ran from the room and out of doors . 
Annixter stood for a moment thoughtful , his protruding lower lip thrust out , his hands in his pocket . 
I suppose she'll quit now , he muttered . 
Suppose she'll leave the ranch if she hates me like that . 
Well , she can go that's all she can go . 
Fool feemale girl , he muttered between his teeth , petticoat mess . 
He was about to sit down to his supper when his eye fell upon the Irish setter , on his haunches in the doorway . 
There was an expectant , ingratiating look on the dog's face . 
No doubt , he suspected it was time for eating . 
Get out YOU ! roared Annixter in a tempest of wrath . 
It was the one thing to drive Annixter to a fury . 
He kicked the dog off the porch in a rolling explosion of oaths , and flung himself down to his seat before the table , fuming and panting . 
Oh , it only lacked that to wind up the whole day . 
Let her go , I don't care , and the sooner the better . 
For upward of an hour he read the novel , methodically swallowing one prune every time he reached the bottom of a page . 
About nine o'clock he blew out the lamp and , punching up his pillow , settled himself for the night . 
The adobe walls and sparse brick sidewalks of the drowsing town radiated the heat in an oily , quivering shimmer . 
The leaves of the eucalyptus trees around the Plaza drooped motionless , limp and relaxed under the scorching , searching blaze . 
The shadows of these trees had shrunk to their smallest circumference , contracting close about the trunks . 
The shade had dwindled to the breadth of a mere line . 
The heat exhaling from brick and plaster and metal met the heat that steadily descended blanketwise and smothering , from the pale , scorched sky . 
Somewhere in the interior of one of the 'dobe houses a guitar snored and hummed sleepily . 
In a corner of the Plaza three hens wallowed in the baking hot dust their wings fluttering , clucking comfortably . 
A Sunday repose prevailed the whole moribund town , peaceful , profound . 
A certain pleasing numbness , a sense of grateful enervation exhaled from the scorching plaster . 
There was no movement , no sound of human business . 
They were the sole occupants of the place . 
It was the day that Annixter had chosen for his barn dance and , in consequence , Quien Sabe was in fete and work suspended . 
Presley and Vanamee had arranged to spend the day in each other's company , lunching at Solotari's and taking a long tramp in the afternoon . 
For the moment they sat back in their chairs , their meal all but finished . 
Solotari brought black coffee and a small carafe of mescal , and retiring to a corner of the room , went to sleep . 
All through the meal Presley had been wondering over a certain change he observed in his friend . 
He looked at him again . 
Vanamee's lean , spare face was of an olive pallor . 
His long , black hair , such as one sees in the saints and evangelists of the pre Raphaelite artists , hung over his ears . 
Presley again remarked his pointed beard , black and fine , growing from the hollow cheeks . 
But now , as Presley took more careful note of him , he was surprised to observe a certain new look in Vanamee's deep set eyes . 
He remembered now that all through the morning Vanamee had been singularly reserved . 
He was continually drifting into reveries , abstracted , distrait . 
Indubitably , something of moment had happened . 
Leaning back in his chair , his thumbs in his belt , his bearded chin upon his breast , his voice was the even monotone of one speaking in his sleep . 
At first I would not trust my own senses . 
I was sure I had deceived myself , but on a second night it happened again . 
Then I was afraid or no , not afraid , but disturbed oh , shaken to my very heart's core . 
I resolved to go no further in the matter , never again to put it to test . 
For a long time I stayed away from the Mission , occupying myself with my work , keeping it out of my mind . 
But the temptation was too strong . 
One night I found myself there again , under the black shadow of the pear trees calling for Angele , summoning her from out the dark , from out the night . 
This time the Answer was prompt , unmistakable . 
I cannot explain to you what it was , nor how it came to me , for there was no sound . 
I saw absolutely nothing but the empty night . 
Three times since then I have gone to the Mission garden at night . 
Last night was the third time . 
He paused , his eyes shining with excitement . 
Presley leaned forward toward him , motionless with intense absorption . 
Well and last night , he prompted . 
Vanamee stirred in his seat , his glance fell , he drummed an instant upon the table . 
Last night , he answered , there was there was a change . 
The Answer was he drew a deep breath nearer . 
You are sure ? The other smiled with absolute certainty . 
It was not that I found the Answer sooner , easier . 
I could not be mistaken . 
No , that which has troubled the darkness , that which has entered into the empty night is coming nearer to me physically nearer , actually nearer . 
His face like the face of younger prophets , the seers , took on a half inspired expression . 
He looked vaguely before him with unseeing eyes . 
With a sharp cry and a violent uncertain gesture of the hand Vanamee came to himself . 
Something neither heard nor seen , appealing to a sixth sense only . 
Listen , it is something like this On Quien Sabe , all last week , we have been seeding the earth . 
The grain is there now under the earth buried in the dark , in the black stillness , under the clods . 
He paused again , dreaming , lost in a reverie , then , just above a whisper , murmured 'That which thou sowest is not quickened except it die , . 
You could not have been mistaken ? said Presley . 
You were sure that there was something ? Imagination can do so much and the influence of the surroundings was strong . 
How impossible it would be that anything SHOULD happen . 
And you say you heard nothing , saw nothing . 
I believe , answered Vanamee , in a sixth sense , or , rather , a whole system of other unnamed senses beyond the reach of our understanding . 
People who live much alone and close to nature experience the sensation of it . 
Perhaps it is something fundamental that we share with plants and animals . 
The same thing that sends the birds south long before the first colds , the same thing that makes the grain of wheat struggle up to meet the sun . 
And this sense never deceives . 
You may see wrong , hear wrong , but once touch this sixth sense and it acts with absolute fidelity , you are certain . 
No , I hear nothing in the Mission garden . 
I see nothing , nothing touches me , but I am CERTAIN for all that . 
Presley hesitated for a moment , then he asked Shall you go back to the garden again ? Make the test again ? I don't know . 
Strange enough , commented Presley , wondering . 
Vanamee sank back in his chair , his eyes growing vacant again Strange enough , he murmured . 
There was a long silence . 
It was , no doubt , this jarring sound that at length roused Presley from his lethargy . 
They were bound for the hills in the northeastern corner of Quien Sabe . 
It was the same walk which Presley had taken on the previous occasion when he had first met Vanamee herding the sheep . 
This encompassing detour around the whole country side was a favorite pastime of his and he was anxious that Vanamee should share his pleasure in it . 
But soon after leaving Guadalajara , they found themselves upon the land that Dyke had bought and upon which he was to raise his famous crop of hops . 
All about were evidences that the former engineer had already been hard at work . 
The ground had been put in readiness to receive the crop and a bewildering , innumerable multitude of poles , connected with a maze of wire and twine , had been set out . 
Farther on at a turn of the road , they came upon Dyke himself , driving a farm wagon loaded with more poles . 
He was in his shirt sleeves , his massive , hairy arms bare to the elbow , glistening with sweat , red with heat . 
In his bell like , rumbling voice , he was calling to his foreman and a boy at work in stringing the poles together . 
His mother had only the day before returned from Marysville , where she had been looking up a seminary for the little tad . 
Presley and Vanamee could not well refuse . 
They climbed into the wagon and jolted over the uneven ground through the bare forest of hop poles to the house . 
The two men were presented and the beer was had from off the ice . 
Mother , said Dyke , as he wiped the froth from his great blond beard , ain't Sid anywheres about ? I want Mr. Vanamee to see how she has grown . 
Smartest little tad in Tulare County , boys . 
Can recite the whole of 'Snow Bound , end to end , without skipping or looking at the book . 
Maybe you don't believe that . 
Mother , ain't I right without skipping a line , hey ? Mrs. Dyke nodded to say that it was so , but explained that Sidney was in Guadalajara . 
Was it for licorice to make her licorice water ? inquired Dyke gravely . 
Yes , said Mrs. Dyke . 
I made her tell me what she was going to get before she went , and it was licorice . 
Dyke , though his mother protested that he was foolish and that Presley and Vanamee had no great interest in young ones , insisted upon showing the visitors Sidney's copy books . 
They were monuments of laborious , elaborate neatness , the trite moralities and ready made aphorisms of the philanthropists and publicists , repeated from page to page with wearying insistence . 
I , too , am an American Citizen . 
My motto Public Control of Public Franchises , and The P. and S. W. is an Enemy of the State . 
I see , commented Presley , you mean the little tad to understand 'the situation' early . 
I told him he was foolish to give that to Sid to copy , said Mrs. Dyke , with indulgent remonstrance . 
And don't you make any mistake , mother , he went on , about the little tad not knowing who her dad's enemies are . 
What do you think , boys ? Listen , here . 
She'd brought her doll rags down and she was playing house behind a pile of hop poles . 
What do you THINK of THAT ? But I correct her every time , protested Mrs. Dyke seriously . 
Where she picked up the trick of hissing I don't know . 
No , it's not funny . 
It seems dreadful to see a little girl who's as sweet and gentle as can be in every other way , so venomous . 
She says the other little girls at school and the boys , too , are all the same way . 
They don't care whether the people hate them or love them , just so long as they are afraid of them . 
It's not right and God will punish them sooner or later . 
A little after this the two young men took themselves away , Dyke obligingly carrying them in the wagon as far as the gate that opened into the Quien Sabe ranch . 
I , personally , haven't got the right to kick . 
With you wheat growing people I guess it's different , but hops , you see , don't count for much in the State . 
It's such a little business that the road don't want to bother themselves to tax it . 
It's the wheat growers that the road cinches . 
The rates on hops ARE FAIR . 
I've got to admit that I was in to Bonneville a while ago to find out . 
It's two cents a pound , and Lord love you , that's reasonable enough to suit any man . 
No , he concluded , I'm on the way to make money now . 
The road sacking me as they did was , maybe , a good thing for me , after all . 
It came just at the right time . 
I had a bit of money put by and here was the chance to go into hops with the certainty that hops would quadruple and quintuple in price inside the year . 
At once they were aware of a vast and unwonted bustle that revolved about the place . 
They stopped a few moments looking on , amused and interested in what was going forward . 
The colossal barn was finished . 
A crowd of men Annixter's farm hands were swarming all about it . 
Some were balanced on the topmost rounds of ladders , hanging festoons of Japanese lanterns from tree to tree , and all across the front of the barn itself . 
Two of the larger evergreen trees were placed on either side the barn door and their tops bent over to form an arch . 
In the middle of this arch it was proposed to hang a mammoth pasteboard escutcheon with gold letters , spelling the word WELCOME . 
There was a strenuous gayety in the air everybody was in the best of spirits . 
Notes of laughter continually interrupted the conversation on every hand . 
At every moment a group of men involved themselves in uproarious horse play . 
They passed oblique jokes behind their hands to each other grossly veiled double meanings meant for the women and bellowed with laughter thereat , stamping on the ground . 
The relations between the sexes grew more intimate , the women and girls pushing the young fellows away from their sides with vigorous thrusts of their elbows . 
Annixter , in execrable temper , appeared from time to time , hatless , his stiff yellow hair in wild disorder . 
He hurried between the barn and the ranch house , carrying now a wickered demijohn , now a case of wine , now a basket of lemons and pineapples . 
The harness room of the barn he had set apart for himself and intimates . 
It would be no fault of his , he declared , if half the number of his men friends were not uproarious before they left . 
His barn dance would be the talk of all Tulare County for years to come . 
For this one day he had resolved to put all thoughts of business out of his head . 
For the matter of that , things were going well enough . 
Osterman was back from Los Angeles with a favourable report as to his affair with Disbrow and Darrell . 
There had been another meeting of the committee . 
Though he had taken no part in the discussion , Annixter was satisfied . 
Hello , Pres , he called . 
Come over here and see how she looks he indicated the barn with a movement of his head . 
Well , we're getting ready for you tonight , he went on as the two friends came up . 
But how we are going to get straightened out by eight o'clock I don't know . 
STOLE her , by jingo . 
It's enough to make a dog sick . 
There's nothing done that you don't do yourself , unless you stand over these loafers with a club . 
I'm sick of the whole business and I've lost my hat wish to God I'd never dreamed of givin' this rotten fool dance . 
Clutter the whole place up with a lot of feemales . 
I sure did lose my presence of mind when I got THAT idea . 
Then , ignoring the fact that it was he , himself , who had called the young men to him , he added Well , this is my busy day . 
Sorry I can't stop and talk to you longer . 
He shouted a last imprecation at the Chinaman and turned back into the barn . 
Annixter was at last driven to confess to himself that he could not get the thought of Hilma Tree out of his mind . 
Finally she had got a hold on him . 
The thing that of all others he most dreaded had happened . 
A feemale girl had got a hold on him , and now there was no longer for him any such thing as peace of mind . 
The idea of the young woman was with him continually . 
He went to bed with it he got up with it . 
At every moment of the day he was pestered with it . 
It interfered with his work , got mixed up in his business . 
What a miserable confession for a man to make a fine way to waste his time . 
He was running after her he , Annixter ! He ripped out a furious oath , striking the table with his boot heel . 
Again and again he had resolved to put the whole affair from out his mind . 
Once he had been able to do so , but of late it was becoming harder and harder with every successive day . 
With the exception of the timid little creature in the glove cleaning establishment in Sacramento , he had had no acquaintance with any woman . 
His world was harsh , crude , a world of men only men who were to be combatted , opposed his hand was against nearly every one of them . 
Women he distrusted with the instinctive distrust of the overgrown schoolboy . 
Now , at length , a young woman had come into his life . 
Promptly he was struck with discomfiture , annoyed almost beyond endurance , harassed , bedevilled , excited , made angry and exasperated . 
At length , Annixter cast his cigar from him and plunged again into the work of the day . 
The afternoon wore to evening , to the accompaniment of wearying and clamorous endeavour . 
In some unexplained fashion , the labour of putting the great barn in readiness for the dance was accomplished the last bolt of cambric was hung in place from the rafters . 
The last evergreen tree was nailed to the joists of the walls the last lantern hung , the last nail driven into the musicians' platform . 
There was a great scurry to have supper and dress . 
Annixter , last of all the other workers , left the barn in the dusk of twilight . 
He was alone he had a saw under one arm , a bag of tools was in his hand . 
He was in his shirt sleeves and carried his coat over his shoulder a hammer was thrust into one of his hip pockets . 
He was in execrable temper . 
The day's work had fagged him out . 
He had not been able to find his hat . 
And the buckskin with sixty dollars' worth of saddle gone , too , he groaned . 
Oh , ain't it sweet ? At his house , Mrs. Tree had set out a cold supper for him , the inevitable dish of prunes serving as dessert . 
After supper Annixter bathed and dressed . 
He decided at the last moment to wear his usual town going suit , a sack suit of black , made by a Bonneville tailor . 
But his hat was gone . 
For over a quarter of an hour he pottered about the barn , going from stall to stall , rummaging the harness room and feed room , all to no purpose . 
At last he came out again upon the main floor , definitely giving up the search , looking about him to see if everything was in order . 
A dull half light pervaded the vast interior , hollow , echoing , leaving the corners and roof thick with impenetrable black shadows . 
There was a sound of hurried footsteps . 
Annixter , with recollections of the stolen buckskin in his mind , cried out sharply Who's there ? There was no answer . 
In a second his pistol was in his hand . 
Who's there ? Quick , speak up or I'll shoot . 
No , no , no , don't shoot , cried an answering voice . 
Annixter slid the pistol into his pocket with a great qualm of apprehension . 
He came forward and met Hilma in the doorway . 
Good Lord , he murmured , that sure did give me a start . 
If I HAD shot Hilma stood abashed and confused before him . 
She was dressed in a white organdie frock of the most rigorous simplicity and wore neither flower nor ornament . 
The severity of her dress made her look even larger than usual , and even as it was her eyes were on a level with Annixter's . 
There was a certain fascination in the contradiction of stature and character of Hilma a great girl , half child as yet , but tall as a man for all that . 
There was a moment's awkward silence , then Hilma explained I I came back to look for my hat . 
I thought I left it here this afternoon . 
And I was looking for my hat , cried Annixter . 
Funny enough , hey ? They laughed at this as heartily as children might have done . 
Well , dislike me , then I know you said that . 
I I disliked what you did TRIED to do . 
It made me angry and it hurt me . 
I shouldn't have said what I did that time , but it was your fault . 
You mean you shouldn't have said you didn't like me ? asked Annixter . 
Why ? Well , well , I don't I don't DISlike anybody , admitted Hilma . 
Then I can take it that you don't dislike ME ? Is that it ? I don't dislike anybody , persisted Hilma . 
Well , I asked you more than that , didn't I ? queried Annixter uneasily . 
I asked you to like me , remember , the other day . 
I'm asking you that again , now . 
I want you to like me . 
Hilma lifted her eyes inquiringly to his . 
In her words was an unmistakable ring of absolute sincerity . 
Innocently she inquired Why ? Annixter was struck speechless . 
In the face of such candour , such perfect ingenuousness , he was at a loss for any words . 
Well well , he stammered , well I don't know , he suddenly burst out . 
That is , he went on , groping for his wits , I can't quite say why . 
The idea of a colossal lie occurred to him , a thing actually royal . 
I like to have the people who are around me like me , he declared . 
I I like to be popular , understand ? Yes , that's it , he continued , more reassured . 
I don't like the idea of any one disliking me . 
That's the way I am . 
Oh , then , returned Hilma , you needn't bother . 
No , I don't dislike you . 
Well , that's good , declared Annixter judicially . 
But hold on , he interrupted , I'm forgetting . 
It's not enough to not dislike me . 
I want you to like me . 
How about THAT ? Hilma paused for a moment , glancing vaguely out of the doorway toward the lighted window of the dairy house , her head tilted . 
I don't know that I ever thought about that , she said . 
Well , think about it now , insisted Annixter . 
But I never thought about liking anybody particularly , she observed . 
I talk like a galoot when I get talking to feemale girls and I can't lay my tongue to anything that sounds right . 
And look here , I lied when I said I liked to have people like me to be popular . 
Rot ! I don't care a curse about people's opinions of me . 
But there's a few people that are more to me than most others that chap Presley , for instance and those people I DO want to have like me . 
Pshaw ! I know I've got enemies piles of them . 
I could name you half a dozen men right now that are naturally itching to take a shot at me . 
Think I care ? Why , I LIKE it . 
I run my ranch to suit myself and I play my game my own way . 
I'm a 'driver , I know it , and a 'bully , too . 
They say all that , but they've got to say , too , that I'm cleverer than any man jack in the running . 
There's nobody can get ahead of me . 
Let 'em grind their teeth . 
When I shut my fist there's not one of them can open it . 
No , not with a CHISEL . 
He turned to Hilma again . 
I'd put my hand in the fire to do him a real service . 
The cayuse isn't foaled yet here on Quien Sabe that can throw me , nor the dog whelped that would dare show his teeth at me . 
The flame in the lamp on the wall in front of Hilma stretched upward tall and thin and began to smoke . 
She went over to where the lamp hung and , standing on tip toe , lowered the wick . 
As she reached her hand up , Annixter noted how the sombre , lurid red of the lamp made a warm reflection on her smooth , round arm . 
Do you understand ? he queried . 
Yes , why , yes , she answered , turning around . 
It's very good of you to want to be a friend of mine . 
I didn't think so , though , when you tried to kiss me . 
But maybe it's all right since you've explained things . 
You see I'm different from you . 
I like everybody to like me and I like to like everybody . 
It makes one so much happier . 
You wouldn't believe it , but you ought to try it , sir , just to see . 
It's so good to be good to people and to have people good to you . 
And everybody has always been so good to me . 
You and he were pretty good friends , were you ? Oh , yes , she answered . 
He was just as GOOD to me . 
We were the best of friends . 
There's another lamp smoking , growled Annixter . 
Turn it down , will you ? and see that somebody sweeps this floor here . 
It's all littered up with pine needles . 
I've got a lot to do . 
Annixter returned to the ranch house , his teeth clenched , enraged , his face flushed . 
Ah , he muttered , Delaney , hey ? Throwing it up to me that I fired him . 
His teeth gripped together more fiercely than ever . 
The best of friends , hey ? By God , I'll have that girl yet . 
I'll show that cow puncher . 
Ain't I her employer , her boss ? I'll show her and Delaney , too . 
It would be easy enough and then Delaney can have her if he wants her after me . 
An evil light flashing from under his scowl , spread over his face . 
The male instincts of possession , unreasoned , treacherous , oblique , came twisting to the surface . 
All the lower nature of the man , ignorant of women , racked at one and the same time with enmity and desire , roused itself like a hideous and abominable beast . 
A little after half past seven , the first carry all , bearing the druggist of Bonneville and his women folk , arrived in front of the new barn . 
Immediately afterward an express wagon loaded down with a swarming family of Spanish Mexicans , gorgeous in red and yellow colours , followed . 
Billy , the stableman , and his assistant took charge of the teams , unchecking the horses and hitching them to a fence back of the barn . 
It looked as if the whole array of invited guests was to arrive in one unbroken procession , but for a long half hour nobody else appeared . 
Annixter and Caraher withdrew to the harness room and promptly involved themselves in a wrangle as to the make up of the famous punch . 
From time to time their voices could be heard uplifted in clamorous argument . 
Two quarts and a half and a cupful of chartreuse . 
Rot , rot , I know better . 
Champagne straight and a dash of brandy . 
The druggist's wife and sister retired to the feed room , where a bureau with a swinging mirror had been placed for the convenience of the women . 
These members of the City Band repaired at once to their platform in the corner . 
At every instant they laughed uproariously among themselves , joshing one of their number , a Frenchman , whom they called Skeezicks . 
Their hilarity reverberated in a hollow , metallic roll among the rafters overhead . 
The druggist observed to young Vacca as he passed by that he thought them pretty fresh , just the same . 
I'm busy , I'm very busy , returned the young man , continuing on his way , still frowning and paring the stump of candle . 
Two quarts 'n' a half . 
Two quarts 'n' a half . 
Ah , yes , in a way , that's so and then , again , in a way , it ISN'T . 
Deliberately the druggist went from one to the other , pausing contemplatively before each . 
He returned down the line and again took up his position by the door of the feed room , nodding his head judicially , as if satisfied . 
He decided to put on his gloves . 
By now it was quite dark . 
Outside , between the barn and the ranch houses one could see a group of men on step ladders lighting the festoons of Japanese lanterns . 
In the darkness , only their faces appeared here and there , high above the ground , seen in a haze of red , strange , grotesque . 
Gradually as the multitude of lanterns were lit , the light spread . 
The grass underfoot looked like green excelsior . 
Another group of men invaded the barn itself , lighting the lamps and lanterns there . 
Soon the whole place was gleaming with points of light . 
Young Vacca , who had disappeared , returned with his pockets full of wax candles . 
He resumed his whittling , refusing to answer any questions , vociferating that he was busy . 
Outside there was a sound of hoofs and voices . 
The druggist , seized with confusion , terrified lest he had put on his gloves too soon , thrust his hands into his pockets . 
It was Cutter , Magnus Derrick's division superintendent , who came , bringing his wife and her two girl cousins . 
They had come fifteen miles by the trail from the far distant division house on Four of Los Muertos and had ridden on horseback instead of driving . 
Mrs. Cutter could be heard declaring that she was nearly dead and felt more like going to bed than dancing . 
The two girl cousins , in dresses of dotted Swiss over blue sateen , were doing their utmost to pacify her . 
She could be heard protesting from moment to moment . 
One distinguished the phrases straight to my bed , back nearly broken in two , never wanted to come in the first place . 
The druggist , observing Cutter take a pair of gloves from Mrs. Cutter's reticule , drew his hands from his pockets . 
But abruptly there was an interruption . 
In the musicians' corner a scuffle broke out . 
There was a noise of imprecations mingled with shouts of derision . 
Skeezicks , the Frenchman , had turned upon the joshers . 
Ah , no , he was heard to exclaim , at the end of the end it is too much . 
Kind of a bad canary we will go to see about that . 
Aha , let him close up his face before I demolish it with a good stroke of the fist . 
The men who were lighting the lanterns were obliged to intervene before he could be placated . 
Hooven and his wife and daughters arrived . 
Minna was carrying little Hilda , already asleep , in her arms . 
Minna looked very pretty , striking even , with her black hair , pale face , very red lips and greenish blue eyes . 
She was dressed in what had been Mrs. Hooven's wedding gown , a cheap affair of farmer's satin . 
Mrs. Hooven had pendent earrings of imitation jet in her ears . 
Hooven was wearing an old frock coat of Magnus Derrick's , the sleeves too long , the shoulders absurdly too wide . 
He and Cutter at once entered into an excited conversation as to the ownership of a certain steer . 
Why , the brand Ach , Gott , der brendt , Hooven clasped his head , ach , der brendt , dot maks me laugh some laughs . 
Dot's goot der brendt doand I see um shoor der boole mit der bleck star bei der vore head in der middle oaf . 
Any someones you esk tell you dot is mein boole . 
Der brendt ? To hell mit der brendt . 
You aindt got some memorie aboudt does ting I guess nodt . 
Please step aside , gentlemen , said young Vacca , who was still making the rounds of the floor . 
Eh ? What den , he exclaimed , still excited , willing to be angry at any one for the moment . 
Doand you push soh , you . 
I tink berhapz you doand OWN dose barn , hey ? I'm busy , I'm very busy . 
The young man pushed by with grave preoccupation . 
Two quarts 'n' a half . 
Two quarts 'n' a half . 
But the barn was filling up rapidly . 
At every moment there was a rattle of a newly arrived vehicle from outside . 
Guest after guest appeared in the doorway , singly or in couples , or in families , or in garrulous parties of five and six . 
Sarria arrived , his smooth , shiny face glistening with perspiration . 
He wore a new cassock and carried his broad brimmed hat under his arm . 
His appearance made quite a stir . 
He passed from group to group , urbane , affable , shaking hands right and left he assumed a set smile of amiability which never left his face the whole evening . 
But abruptly there was a veritable sensation . 
From out the little crowd that persistently huddled about the doorway came Osterman . 
He wore a dress suit with a white waistcoat and patent leather pumps what a wonder ! A little qualm of excitement spread around the barn . 
One exchanged nudges of the elbow with one's neighbour , whispering earnestly behind the hand . 
The musicians began to tune up . 
A sense of gayety began to spread throughout the assembly . 
At every moment the crowd increased . 
The aroma of new sawn timber and sawdust began to be mingled with the feminine odour of sachet and flowers . 
There was a babel of talk in the air male baritone and soprano chatter varied by an occasional note of laughter and the swish of stiffly starched petticoats . 
On the row of chairs that went around three sides of the wall groups began to settle themselves . 
The conversation grew louder as the timidity of the early moments wore off . 
Groups at a distance called back and forth conversations were carried on at top voice . 
Once , even a whole party hurried across the floor from one side of the barn to the other . 
Annixter emerged from the harness room , his face red with wrangling . 
He took a position to the right of the door , shaking hands with newcomers , inviting them over and over again to cut loose and whoop it along . 
Into the ears of his more intimate male acquaintances he dropped a word as to punch and cigars in the harness room later on , winking with vast intelligence . 
Between eight and half past , Magnus Derrick and his family were seen . 
Magnus's entry caused no little impression . 
Some said There's the Governor , and called their companions' attention to the thin , erect figure , commanding , imposing , dominating all in his immediate neighbourhood . 
Harran came with him , wearing a cut away suit of black . 
He took his mother upon his arm and conducted her to a seat by the side of Mrs. Broderson . 
Annie Derrick was very pretty that evening . 
She was dressed in a grey silk gown with a collar of pink velvet . 
Her light brown hair that yet retained so much of its brightness was transfixed by a high , shell comb , very Spanish . 
But the look of uneasiness in her large eyes the eyes of a young girl was deepening every day . 
The expression of innocence and inquiry which they so easily assumed , was disturbed by a faint suggestion of aversion , almost of terror . 
All at once Annixter , who had just shaken hands with Dyke , his mother and the little tad , moved abruptly in his place , drawing in his breath sharply . 
In the dusky light of the barn earlier in the evening , Annixter had not been able to see Hilma plainly . 
Now , however , as she passed before his eyes in the glittering radiance of the lamps and lanterns , he caught his breath in astonishment . 
Never had she appeared more beautiful in his eyes . 
Now he could not take his eyes from her . 
Hilma , for the first time , was wearing her hair done high upon her head . 
The thick , sweet smelling masses , bitumen brown in the shadows , corruscated like golden filaments in the light . 
Her organdie frock was long , longer than any she had yet worn . 
It left a little of her neck and breast bare and all of her arm . 
Such arms ! How did she manage to keep them hid on ordinary occasions . 
Big at the shoulder , tapering with delicious modulations to the elbow and wrist , overlaid with a delicate , gleaming lustre . 
The pretty rose colour of her cheek had deepened to a pale carnation . 
Annixter , his hands clasped behind him , stood watching . 
In a few moments Hilma was surrounded by a group of young men , clamouring for dances . 
They came from all corners of the barn , leaving the other girls precipitately , almost rudely . 
There could be little doubt as to who was to be the belle of the occasion . 
Hilma's little triumph was immediate , complete . 
Annixter could hear her voice from time to time , its usual velvety huskiness vibrating to a note of exuberant gayety . 
All at once the orchestra swung off into a march the Grand March . 
There was a great rush to secure partners . 
Young Vacca , still going the rounds , was pushed to one side . 
The gayly apparelled clerk from the Bonneville store lost his head in the confusion . 
He could not find his partner . 
He roamed wildly about the barn , bewildered , his eyes rolling . 
He resolved to prepare an elaborate programme card on the back of an old envelope . 
Rapidly the line was formed , Hilma and Harran Derrick in the lead , Annixter having obstinately refused to engage in either march , set or dance the whole evening . 
Soon the confused shuffling of feet settled to a measured cadence the orchestra blared and wailed , the snare drum , rolling at exact intervals , the cornet marking the time . 
It was half past eight o'clock . 
Annixter drew a long breath Good , he muttered , the thing is under way at last . 
Singularly enough , Osterman also refused to dance . 
The week before he had returned from Los Angeles , bursting with the importance of his mission . 
He had Disbrow in his pocket . 
He was impatient to pose before the others of the committee as a skilful political agent , a manipulator . 
He forgot his attitude of the early part of the evening when he had drawn attention to himself with his wonderful clothes . 
Now his comic actor's face , with its brownish red cheeks , protuberant ears and horizontal slit of a mouth , was overcast with gravity . 
His bald forehead was seamed with the wrinkles of responsibility . 
I managed I schemed I kept dark I lay low But Annixter refused to listen . 
Oh , rot your schemes . 
There's a punch in the harness room that will make the hair grow on the top of your head in the place where the hair ought to grow . 
Come on , we'll round up some of the boys and walk into it . 
They edged their way around the hall outside The Grand March , toward the harness room , picking up on their way Caraher , Dyke , Hooven and old Broderson . 
Once in the harness room , Annixter shot the bolt . 
That affair outside , he observed , will take care of itself , but here's a little orphan child that gets lonesome without company . 
Annixter began ladling the punch , filling the glasses . 
Osterman proposed a toast to Quien Sabe and the Biggest Barn . 
Their elbows crooked in silence . 
Old Broderson set down his glass , wiping his long beard and remarking That that certainly is very very agreeable . 
I don't drink myself , observed Dyke , but just a taste of that with a lot of water wouldn't be bad for the little tad . 
She'd think it was lemonade . 
He was about to mix a glass for Sidney , but thought better of it at the last moment . 
It's the chartreuse that's lacking , commented Caraher , lowering at Annixter . 
The other flared up on the instant . 
In some punches it goes and then , again , in others it don't . 
But it was left to Hooven to launch the successful phrase Gesundheit , he exclaimed , holding out his second glass . 
After drinking , he replaced it on the table with a long breath . 
Ach Gott ! he cried , dat poonsch , say I tink dot poonsch mek some demn goot vertilizer , hey ? Fertiliser ! The others roared with laughter . 
Good eye , Bismarck , commented Annixter . 
The name had a great success . 
Thereafter throughout the evening the punch was invariably spoken of as the Fertiliser . 
Osterman , having spilt the bottom of a glassful on the floor , pretended that he saw shoots of grain coming up on the spot . 
Suddenly he turned upon old Broderson . 
I'm bald , ain't I ? Want to know how I lost my hair ? Promise you won't ask a single other question and I'll tell you . 
Promise your word of honour . 
Eh ? What wh I I don't understand . 
Your hair ? Yes , I'll promise . 
How did you lose it ? It was bit off . 
The other gazed at him stupefied his jaw dropped . 
The company shouted , and old Broderson , believing he had somehow accomplished a witticism , chuckled in his beard , wagging his head . 
But suddenly he fell grave , struck with an idea . 
He demanded Yes I know but but what bit it off ? Ah , vociferated Osterman , that's JUST what you promised not to ask . 
The company doubled up with hilarity . 
Vertilizer , hey ? Dots some fine joke , hey ? You bedt . 
What with the noise of their talk and laughter , it was some time before Dyke , first of all , heard a persistent knocking on the bolted door . 
He called Annixter's attention to the sound . 
Cursing the intruder , Annixter unbolted and opened the door . 
But at once his manner changed . 
Come in , come in , Pres . 
There was a shout of welcome from the others . 
A spirit of effusive cordiality had begun to dominate the gathering . 
Annixter caught sight of Vanamee back of Presley , and waiving for the moment the distinction of employer and employee , insisted that both the friends should come in . 
Any friend of Pres is my friend , he declared . 
But when the two had entered and had exchanged greetings , Presley drew Annixter aside . 
Vanamee and I have just come from Bonneville , he explained . 
He's got the buckskin , and he's full of bad whiskey and dago red . 
He says he wasn't invited to your barn dance but that he's coming over to shoot up the place . 
Knowing Annixter's irascibility , he had expected to produce a more dramatic effect . 
He began to explain the danger of the business . 
Delaney had once knifed a greaser in the Panamint country . 
He was known as a bad man . 
But Annixter refused to be drawn . 
All right , he said , that's all right . 
You might scare the girls off . 
Outside the dancing was by this time in full swing . 
The orchestra was playing a polka . 
Young Vacca , now at his fiftieth wax candle , had brought the floor to the slippery surface of glass . 
Hilma Tree was dancing for the second time with Harran Derrick . 
She danced with infinite grace . 
Her cheeks were bright red , her eyes half closed , and through her parted lips she drew from time to time a long , tremulous breath of pure delight . 
She was in a dreamy lethargy of happiness . 
It was her first ball . 
She could have danced without stopping until morning . 
Minna Hooven and Cutter were promenading . 
Mrs. Hooven , with little Hilda already asleep on her knees , never took her eyes from her daughter's gown . 
As often as Minna passed near her she vented an energetic pst ! pst ! The metal tip of a white draw string was showing from underneath the waist of Minna's dress . 
Mrs. Hooven was on the point of tears . 
The solitary gayly apparelled clerk from Bonneville was in a fever of agitation . 
He had lost his elaborate programme card . 
Abruptly the orchestra ceased playing with a roll of the snare drum , a flourish of the cornet and a prolonged growl of the bass viol . 
The dance broke up , the couples hurrying to their seats , leaving the gayly apparelled clerk suddenly isolated in the middle of the floor , rolling his eyes . 
The druggist released the Spanish Mexican girl with mechanical precision out amidst the crowd of dancers . 
He bowed , dropping his chin upon his cravat throughout the dance neither had hazarded a word . 
The girl found her way alone to a chair , but the druggist , sick from continually revolving in the same direction , walked unsteadily toward the wall . 
All at once the barn reeled around him he fell down . 
A little crowd formed around the musicians' platform voices were raised there was a commotion . 
Skeezicks , who played the big horn , accused the cornet and the snare drum of stealing his cold lunch . 
You are going to play me there a bad farce . 
The sandwiches and one sausage were produced the other had disappeared . 
In the end Skeezichs allowed himself to be appeased . 
Half an hour later the gathering in the harness room was considerably reinforced . 
It was the corner of the barn toward which the male guests naturally gravitated . 
Harran Derrick , who only cared to dance with Hilma Tree , was admitted . 
Garnett from the Ruby rancho and Gethings from the San Pablo , came in a little afterwards . 
A fourth bowl of punch was mixed , Annixter and Caraher clamouring into each other's face as to its ingredients . 
Soon the air of the room became blue with an acrid haze of smoke . 
Ranged in their chairs around the side of the room , the guests emptied glass after glass . 
Vanamee alone refused to drink . 
He sat a little to one side , disassociating himself from what was going forward , watching the others calmly , a little contemptuously , a cigarette in his fingers . 
Hooven , after drinking his third glass , however , was afflicted with a great sadness his breast heaved with immense sighs . 
He asserted that he was obbressed Cutter had taken his steer . 
He retired to a corner and seated himself in a heap on his chair , his heels on the rungs , wiping the tears from his eyes , refusing to be comforted . 
Old Broderson startled Annixter , who sat next to him , out of all measure by suddenly winking at him with infinite craftiness . 
Though keeping pace with the others , glass for glass , the punch left him solid upon his feet , clear headed . 
The tough , cross grained fibre of him seemed proof against alcohol . 
Never in his life had he been drunk . 
He prided himself upon his power of resistance . 
Say ! exclaimed old Broderson , gravely addressing the company , pulling at his beard uneasily say ! I I listen ! I'm a devil of a fellow with the girls . 
He wagged his head doggedly , shutting his eyes in a knowing fashion . 
Yes , sir , I am . 
There was a young lady in Ukiah that was when I was a lad of seventeen . 
We used to meet in the cemetery in the afternoons . 
I was to go away to school at Sacramento , and the afternoon I left we met in the cemetery and we stayed so long I almost missed the train . 
The others waited for the rest of the story . 
And afterwards ? prompted Annixter . 
I never saw her again . 
The company raised a chorus of derision , and Osterman cried ironically Say ! THAT'S a pretty good one ! Tell us another . 
The old man laughed with the rest , believing he had made another hit . 
He called Osterman to him , whispering in his ear Sh ! Look here ! Some night you and I will go up to San Francisco hey ? We'll go skylarking . 
Oh , I'm a a a rare old BUCK , I am ! I ain't too old . 
He left him wrangling with Caraher , who still persisted in adding chartreuse , and stepped out into the dance to see how things were getting on . 
It was the interval between two dances . 
In and around a stall at the farther end of the floor , where lemonade was being served , was a great throng of young men . 
A babel of talk was in the air , mingled with gusts of laughter . 
Everybody seemed having a good time . 
In the increasing heat the decorations of evergreen trees and festoons threw off a pungent aroma that suggested a Sunday school Christmas festival . 
By the doorway , Annixter met Sarria , who had stepped out to smoke a fat , black cigar . 
The set smile of amiability was still fixed on the priest's smooth , shiny face the cigar ashes had left grey streaks on the front of his cassock . 
Annixter was saluted right and left as he slowly went the round of the floor . 
At every moment he had to pause to shake hands and to listen to congratulations upon the size of his barn and the success of his dance . 
He sent them about their business harshly , abominably rude , leaving a wake of angry disturbance behind him , sowing the seeds of future quarrels and renewed unpopularity . 
He was looking for Hilma Tree . 
His old time confusion and embarrassment returned to him . 
But he had had a single distinct glimpse of her , definite , precise , and this glimpse was enough . 
The change was subtle , evanescent , hard to define , but not the less unmistakable . 
The excitement , the enchanting delight , the delicious disturbance of the first ball , had produced its result . 
Perhaps there had only been this lacking . 
It was hard to say , but for that brief instant of time Annixter was looking at Hilma , the woman . 
She was no longer the young girl upon whom he might look down , to whom he might condescend , whose little , infantile graces were to be considered with amused toleration . 
When Annixter returned to the harness room , he let himself into a clamour of masculine hilarity . 
Osterman had , indeed , made a marvellous fertiliser , whiskey for the most part , diluted with champagne and lemon juice . 
The first round of this drink had been welcomed with a salvo of cheers . 
But , abruptly , Annixter discovered that the liquors the champagne , whiskey , brandy , and the like were running low . 
He felt that he would stand disgraced if it could be said afterward that he had not provided sufficient drink at his entertainment . 
However , when this matter had been attended to , Annixter did not immediately return to the harness room . 
On the floor of the barn a square dance was under way , the leader of the City Band calling the figures . 
The druggist had returned indoors , and leaned dejected and melancholy against the wall near the doorway , unable to dance , his evening's enjoyment spoiled . 
The gayly apparelled clerk from Bonneville had just involved himself in a deplorable incident . 
There was a tremendous scene . 
The clerk was ejected forcibly , Mrs. Hooven filling all the neighbourhood with shrill expostulation . 
But the square dance was over . 
The City Band was just beginning to play a waltz . 
Having a good time , Miss Hilma ? he demanded , pausing for a moment . 
Oh , am I , JUST ! she exclaimed . 
The best time but I don't know what has become of my partner . 
See ! I'm left all alone the only time this whole evening , she added proudly . 
Have you seen him my partner , sir ? I forget his name . 
I only met him this evening , and I've met SO many I can't begin to remember half of them . 
Suddenly an idea occurred to him . 
He took his resolution in both hands . 
Say ! look here , Miss Hilma . 
What's the matter with you and I stealing this one for ourselves ? I don't mean to dance . 
I don't propose to make a jumping jack of myself for some galoot to give me the laugh , but we'll walk around . 
Will you ? What do you say ? Hilma consented . 
I'm not so VERY sorry I missed my dance with that that little clerk , she said guiltily . 
I suppose that's very bad of me , isn't it ? Annixter fulminated a vigorous protest . 
Hilma overwhelmed him with a burst of gratitude which he gruffly pretended to deprecate . 
Oh , that was all right . 
It hadn't cost him much . 
He liked to see people having a good time himself , and the crowd did seem to be enjoying themselves . 
Hilma protested volubly she would never forget this night , adding Dance ! Oh , you don't know how I love it ! I didn't know myself . 
I could dance all night and never stop once ! Annixter was smitten with uneasiness . 
No doubt this promenading was not at all to her taste . 
Wondering what kind of a spectacle he was about to make of himself , he exclaimed Want to dance now ? Oh , yes ! she returned . 
They paused in their walk , and Hilma , facing him , gave herself into his arms . 
Annixter shut his teeth , the perspiration starting from his forehead . 
For five years he had abandoned dancing . 
Never in his best days had it been one of his accomplishments . 
They hesitated a moment , waiting to catch the time from the musicians . 
Another couple bore down upon them at precisely the wrong moment , jostling them out of step . 
Annixter swore under his breath . 
His arm still about the young woman , he pulled her over to one corner . 
Now , he muttered , we'll try again . 
A second time , listening to the one two three , one two three cadence of the musicians , they endeavoured to get under way . 
Annixter waited the fraction of a second too long and stepped on Hilma's foot . 
He was in a rage . 
He came with the suddenness of an explosion . 
He had ridden the buckskin at a gallop straight through the doorway and out into the middle of the floor of the barn . 
It was the running buck , and had not Delaney been the hardest buster in the county , would have flung him headlong like a sack of sand . 
Delaney had arrayed himself with painful elaboration , determined to look the part , bent upon creating the impression , resolved that his appearance at least should justify his reputation of being bad . 
In a second of time the dance was a bedlam . 
The musicians stopped with a discord , and the middle of the crowded floor bared itself instantly . 
There was a second's respite afforded while Delaney occupied himself in quieting the buckskin , and in that second of time , at this moment of crisis , the wonderful thing occurred . 
Never more alive to his surroundings , never more observant , he suddenly understood . 
For the briefest lapse of time he and Hilma looked deep into each other's eyes , and from that moment on , Annixter knew that Hilma cared . 
The whole matter was brief as the snapping of a finger . 
Two words and a glance and all was done . 
But as though nothing had occurred , Annixter pushed Hilma from him , repeating harshly Get back , I tell you . 
But the cow puncher was not ready to come to grapples yet . 
Fearless , his wits gambolling under the lash of the alcohol , he wished to make the most of the occasion , maintaining the suspense , playing for the gallery . 
Gives a dance , does he , high falutin' hoe down in his barn and forgets to invite his old broncho bustin' friend . 
But his friend don't forget him no , he don't . 
He remembers little things , does his broncho bustin' friend . 
Likes to see a dance hisself on occasion , his friend does . 
A little dance for the ladies , Buck . 
This feature of the entertainment is alone worth the price of admission . 
Attention now ! I'll give you the key . 
He fanned his revolver , spinning it about his index finger by the trigger guard with incredible swiftness , the twirling weapon a mere blur of blue steel in his hand . 
Suddenly and without any apparent cessation of the movement , he fired , and a little splinter of wood flipped into the air at Annixter's feet . 
Time ! he shouted , while the buckskin reared to the report . 
Hold on wait a minute . 
This place is too light to suit . 
That big light yonder is in my eyes . 
Look out , I'm going to throw lead . 
A second shot put out the lamp over the musicians' stand . 
The assembled guests shrieked , a frantic , shrinking quiver ran through the crowd like the huddling of frightened rabbits in their pen . 
He stood some thirty paces from the buster , his hands still in his coat pockets , his eyes glistening , watchful . 
Excitable and turbulent in trifling matters , when actual bodily danger threatened he was of an abnormal quiet . 
I'm watching you , cried the other . 
Don't make any mistake about that . 
When I'm bad , I'm called the Undertaker's Friend , so I am , and I'm that bad to night that I'm scared of myself . 
They'll have to revise the census returns before I'm done with this place . 
Come on , now , I'm getting tired waiting . 
I come to see a dance . 
Hand over that horse , Delaney , said Annixter , without raising his voice , and clear out . 
The other affected to be overwhelmed with infinite astonishment , his eyes staring . 
He peered down from the saddle . 
Wh a a t ! he exclaimed wh a a t did you say ? Why , I guess you must be looking for trouble that's what I guess . 
There's where you're wrong , m'son , muttered Annixter , partly to Delaney , partly to himself . 
If I was looking for trouble there wouldn't be any guess work about it . 
With the words he began firing . 
Delaney had hardly entered the barn before Annixter's plan had been formed . 
Long since his revolver was in the pocket of his coat , and he fired now through the coat itself , without withdrawing his hands . 
Until that moment Annixter had not been sure of himself . 
There was no doubt that for the first few moments of the affair he would have welcomed with joy any reasonable excuse for getting out of the situation . 
But the sound of his own revolver gave him confidence . 
He whipped it from his pocket and fired again . 
It was quite probable that no thought of killing each other suggested itself to either Annixter or Delaney . 
Both fired without aiming very deliberately . 
To empty their revolvers and avoid being hit was the desire common to both . 
They no longer vituperated each other . 
The revolvers spoke for them . 
Long after , Annixter could recall this moment . 
Annixter's revolver contained but six cartridges . 
Already it seemed to him as if he had fired twenty times . 
Without doubt the next shot was his last . 
Then what ? He peered through the blue haze that with every discharge thickened between him and the buster . 
For his own safety he must place at least one shot . 
Delaney's chest and shoulders rose suddenly above the smoke close upon him as the distraught buckskin reared again . 
Delaney was scrambling off the floor . 
There was blood on the buster's wrist and he no longer carried his revolver . 
Suddenly he turned and ran . 
The crowd parted right and left before him as he made toward the doorway . 
She brought up against the wall with cruel force and with impact of a sack of stones her head was cut . 
She turned and charged again , bull like , the blood streaming from her forehead . 
The crowd , shrieking , melted before her rush . 
An old man was thrown down and trampled . 
But a crowd of men fell upon her , tugging at the bit , sitting on her head , shouting , gesticulating . 
At last she lay quiet . 
The men allowed her to struggle to her feet . 
And an hour later the dance was progressing as evenly as though nothing in the least extraordinary had occurred . 
In another minute , just another second , they would have shown him yes , sir , by jingo ! ah , you bet ! On all sides the reminiscences began to circulate . 
At least one man in every three had been involved in a gun fight at some time of his life . 
Osterman solemnly asserted that he had seen a greaser sawn in two in a Nevada sawmill . 
Old Broderson had witnessed a Vigilante lynching in on California Street in San Francisco . 
Dyke recalled how once in his engineering days he had run over a drunk at a street crossing . 
Gethings of the San Pablo had taken a shot at a highwayman . 
Hooven had bayonetted a French Chasseur at Sedan . 
An old Spanish Mexican , a centenarian from Guadalajara , remembered Fremont's stand on a mountain top in San Benito County . 
The druggist had fired at a burglar trying to break into his store one New Year's eve . 
Young Vacca had seen a dog shot in Guadalajara . 
Father Sarria had more than once administered the sacraments to Portuguese desperadoes dying of gunshot wounds . 
Even the women recalled terrible scenes . 
Mrs. Dyke had been in a stage hold up , when the shotgun messenger was murdered . 
Stories by the hundreds went the round of the company . 
The air was surcharged with blood , dying groans , the reek of powder smoke , the crack of rifles . 
But the affair had aroused a combative spirit amongst the men of the assembly . 
Instantly a spirit of aggression , of truculence , swelled up underneath waistcoats and starched shirt bosoms . 
More than one offender was promptly asked to step outside . 
It was like young bucks excited by an encounter of stags , lowering their horns upon the slightest provocation , showing off before the does and fawns . 
One sought laboriously for slights and insults , veiled in ordinary conversation . 
The sense of personal honour became refined to a delicate , fine point . 
Upon the slightest pretext there was a haughty drawing up of the figure , a twisting of the lips into a smile of scorn . 
Caraher spoke of shooting S. Behrman on sight before the end of the week . 
Twice it became necessary to separate Hooven and Cutter , renewing their quarrel as to the ownership of the steer . 
But Annixter , bursting with pride , his chest thrown out , his chin in the air , reigned enthroned in a circle of adulation . 
To shake him by the hand was an honour to be struggled for . 
One clapped him on the back with solemn nods of approval . 
Took a steady eye and a sure hand to make a shot like that . 
There was a shot that would be told about in Tulare County fifty years to come . 
Annixter had refrained from replying , all ears to this conversation , wondering just what had happened . 
He knew only that Delaney had run , leaving his revolver and a spatter of blood behind him . 
By degrees , however , he ascertained that his last shot but one had struck Delaney's pistol hand , shattering it and knocking the revolver from his grip . 
He was overwhelmed with astonishment . 
Why , after the shooting began he had not so much as seen Delaney with any degree of plainness . 
The whole affair was a whirl . 
Well , where did YOU learn to shoot THAT way ? some one in the crowd demanded . 
Annixter moved his shoulders with a gesture of vast unconcern . 
Oh , he observed carelessly , it's not my SHOOTING that ever worried ME , m'son . 
The crowd gaped with delight . 
There was a great wagging of heads . 
Well , I guess not . 
No , sir , not much . 
Ah , no , you bet not . 
He delivered himself of a remembered phrase , very elegant , refined . 
It was Lancelot after the tournament , Bayard receiving felicitations after the battle . 
Oh , don't say anything about it , he murmured . 
I only did what any man would have done in my place . 
To restore completely the equanimity of the company , he announced supper . 
This he had calculated as a tremendous surprise . 
It was to have been served at mid night , but the irruption of Delaney had dislocated the order of events , and the tables were brought in an hour ahead of time . 
The advent of this supper was received with a volley of applause . 
The musicians played a quick step . 
The company threw themselves upon the food with a great scraping of chairs and a vast rustle of muslins , tarletans , and organdies soon the clatter of dishes was a veritable uproar . 
The tables were taken by assault . 
One ate whatever was nearest at hand , some even beginning with oranges and nuts and ending with beef and chicken . 
At the end the paper caps were brought on , together with the ice cream . 
All up and down the tables the pulled crackers snapped continually like the discharge of innumerable tiny rifles . 
The harness room crowd had a table to themselves , at the head of which sat Annixter and at the foot Harran . 
The gun fight had sobered Presley thoroughly . 
At a corner of the table , speechless , unobserved , ignored , sat Dabney , of whom nothing was known but his name , the silent old man who made no friends . 
He ate and drank quietly , dipping his sandwich in his lemonade . 
Osterman ate all the olives he could lay his hands on , a score of them , fifty of them , a hundred of them . 
He touched no crumb of anything else . 
Old Broderson stared at him , his jaw fallen . 
Osterman declared he had once eaten a thousand on a bet . 
The men called each others' attention to him . 
Delighted to create a sensation , Osterman persevered . 
The contents of an entire bowl disappeared in his huge , reptilian slit of a mouth . 
His cheeks of brownish red were extended , his bald forehead glistened . 
It was all one with him . 
He was satisfied , contented . 
He was astonishing the people . 
Once I swallowed a tree toad . 
he told old Broderson , by mistake . 
I was eating grapes , and the beggar lived in me three weeks . 
In rainy weather he would sing . 
You don't believe that , he vociferated . 
Haven't I got the toad at home now in a bottle of alcohol . 
And the old man , never doubting , his eyes starting , wagged his head in amazement . 
Oh , yes , cried Caraher , the length of the table , that's a pretty good one . 
Eh wh what ? murmured Broderson , looking about him . 
You you you mix me all up . 
As soon as supper was over , the floor was cleared again . 
The guests clamoured for a Virginia reel . 
The last quarter of the evening , the time of the most riotous fun , was beginning . 
The young men caught the girls who sat next to them . 
The orchestra dashed off into a rollicking movement . 
The two lines were formed . 
In a second of time the dance was under way again the guests still wearing the Phrygian bonnets and liberty caps of pink and blue tissue paper . 
But the group of men once more adjourned to the harness room . 
Fresh boxes of cigars were opened the seventh bowl of fertiliser was mixed . 
Osterman poured the dregs of a glass of it upon his bald head , declaring that he could feel the hair beginning to grow . 
But suddenly old Broderson rose to his feet . 
Aha , he cackled , I'M going to have a dance , I am . 
Think I'm too old ? I'll show you young fellows . 
I'm a regular old ROOSTER when I get started . 
He marched out into the barn , the others following , holding their sides . 
He found an aged Mexican woman by the door and hustled her , all confused and giggling , into the Virginia reel , then at its height . 
Every one crowded around to see . 
Old Broderson stepped off with the alacrity of a colt , snapping his fingers , slapping his thigh , his mouth widening in an excited grin . 
The entire company of the guests shouted . 
The City Band redoubled their efforts and the old man , losing his head , breathless , gasping , dislocated his stiff joints in his efforts . 
Annixter shouted Nice eye , Santa Claus . 
He searched for Hilma Tree , having still in mind the look in her eyes at that swift moment of danger . 
He had not seen her since then . 
At last he caught sight of her . 
Annixter was about to go to her when he was interrupted by a cry . 
Old Broderson , in the midst of a double shuffle , had clapped his hand to his side with a gasp , which he followed by a whoop of anguish . 
He had got a stitch or had started a twinge somewhere . 
With a gesture of resignation , he drew himself laboriously out of the dance , limping abominably , one leg dragging . 
He was heard asking for his wife . 
Old Mrs. Broderson took him in charge . 
She jawed him for making an exhibition of himself , scolding as though he were a ten year old . 
He'd better be thinking of his coffin . 
The dance drew towards its close in a storm of jubilation . 
The perspiring musicians toiled like galley slaves the guests singing as they danced . 
The group of men reassembled in the harness room . 
Even Magnus Derrick condescended to enter and drink a toast . 
Presley and Vanamee , still holding themselves aloof , looked on , Vanamee more and more disgusted . 
Dabney , standing to one side , overlooked and forgotten , continued to sip steadily at his glass , solemn , reserved . 
Old Broderson , whom every one had believed had gone home , returned , though much sobered , and took his place , refusing , however , to drink another spoonful . 
Both assemblies had been increased . 
Even the older people had joined in the dance , while nearly every one of the men who did not dance had found their way into the harness room . 
The two groups rivalled each other in their noise . 
Out on the floor of the barn was a very whirlwind of gayety , a tempest of laughter , hand clapping and cries of amusement . 
He set down the punch bowl . 
Well , where did YOU come from ? he demanded . 
It was a messenger from Bonneville , the uniformed boy that the telephone company employed to carry messages . 
He had just arrived from town on his bicycle , out of breath and panting . 
Message for you , sir . 
Will you sign ? He held the book to Annixter , who signed the receipt , wondering . 
The boy departed , leaving a thick envelope of yellow paper in Annixter's hands , the address typewritten , the word Urgent written in blue pencil in one corner . 
Still puzzled , Annixter distributed the envelopes , muttering to himself What's up now ? The incident had attracted attention . 
A comparative quiet followed , the guests following the letters with their eyes as they were passed around the table . 
They fancied that Annixter had arranged a surprise . 
Magnus Derrick , who sat next to Annixter , was the first to receive his letter . 
With a word of excuse he opened it . 
Read it , read it , Governor , shouted a half dozen voices . 
No secrets , you know . 
Everything above board here to night . 
Magnus cast a glance at the contents of the letter , then rose to his feet and read Magnus Derrick , Bonneville , Tulare Co . 
Dear Sir By regrade of October st , the value of the railroad land you occupy , included in your ranch of Los Muertos , has been fixed at . 
The land is now for sale at that price to any one . 
But for a long moment this was the only remark . 
They were all to the same effect , almost word for word like the Governor's . 
Only the figures and the proper names varied . 
In some cases the price per acre was twenty two dollars . 
In Annixter's case it was thirty . 
And and the company promised to sell to me , to to all of us , gasped old Broderson , at TWO DOLLARS AND A HALF an acre . 
It was not alone the ranchers immediately around Bonneville who would be plundered by this move on the part of the Railroad . 
The alternate section system applied throughout all the San Joaquin . 
By striking at the Bonneville ranchers a terrible precedent was established . 
Of the crowd of guests in the harness room alone , nearly every man was affected , every man menaced with ruin . 
All of a million acres was suddenly involved . 
Then suddenly the tempest burst . 
A dozen men were on their feet in an instant , their teeth set , their fists clenched , their faces purple with rage . 
Oaths , curses , maledictions exploded like the firing of successive mines . 
Voices quivered with wrath , hands flung upward , the fingers hooked , prehensile , trembled with anger . 
The sense of wrongs , the injustices , the oppression , extortion , and pillage of twenty years suddenly culminated and found voice in a raucous howl of execration . 
For a second there was nothing articulate in that cry of savage exasperation , nothing even intelligent . 
The roar subsided to intermittent clamour , in the pauses of which the sounds of music and dancing made themselves audible once more . 
S. Behrman again , vociferated Harran Derrick . 
Chose his moment well , muttered Annixter . 
Hits his hardest when we're all rounded up having a good time . 
Gentlemen , this is ruin . 
What's to be done now ? FIGHT ! My God ! do you think we are going to stand this ? Do you think we CAN ? The uproar swelled again . 
The clearer the assembly of ranchers understood the significance of this move on the part of the Railroad , the more terrible it appeared , the more flagrant , the more intolerable . 
Fight ! How fight ? What ARE you going to do ? If there's a law in this land If there is , it is in Shelgrim's pocket . 
Who owns the courts in California ? Ain't it Shelgrim ? God damn him . 
Why , it is a question of my home . 
Am I to be turned out ? Why , I have put eight thousand dollars into improving this land . 
And I six thousand , and now that I have , the Railroad grabs it . 
And the system of irrigating ditches that Derrick and I have been laying out . 
There's thousands of dollars in that ! I'll fight this out till I've spent every cent of my money . 
Nor I. Nor I. Nor I. This is the last . 
Legal means first if those fail the shotgun . 
They can shoot me down , but I'll die die fighting for my home before I'll give in to this . 
At length Annixter made himself heard All out of the room but the ranch owners , he shouted . 
Hooven , Caraher , Dyke , you'll have to clear out . 
This is a family affair . 
Presley , you and your friend can remain . 
Reluctantly the others filed through the door . 
But the men who had been asked to leave the harness room spread the news throughout the barn . 
It was repeated from lip to lip . 
One by one the guests dropped out of the dance . 
By swift degrees the gayety lapsed away . 
The Virginia reel broke up . 
The dance came to an abrupt end . 
A sense of impending calamity , oppressive , foreboding , gloomy , passed through the air overhead in the night , a long shiver of anguish and of terror , mysterious , despairing . 
In the harness room , however , the excitement continued unchecked . 
One rancher after another delivered himself of a torrent of furious words . 
There was no order , merely the frenzied outcry of blind fury . 
One spirit alone was common to all resistance at whatever cost and to whatever lengths . 
Like the hero of a melodrama , he took stage with a great sweeping gesture . 
ORGANISATION , he shouted , that must be our watch word . 
The curse of the ranchers is that they fritter away their strength . 
Now , we must stand together , now , NOW . 
Here's the crisis , here's the moment . 
Shall we meet it ? I CALL FOR THE LEAGUE . 
Not next week , not to morrow , not in the morning , but now , now , now , this very moment , before we go out of that door . 
Are you ready ? Is it now or never ? I call for the League . 
Instantly there was a shout . 
With an actor's instinct , Osterman had spoken at the precise psychological moment . 
He carried the others off their feet , glib , dexterous , voluble . 
Just what was meant by the League the others did not know , but it was something , a vague engine , a machine with which to fight . 
Osterman had not done speaking before the room rang with outcries , the crowd of men shouting , for what they did not know . 
The League ! The League ! Now , to night , this moment sign our names before we leave . 
Organisation ! The League ! We have a committee at work already , Osterman vociferated . 
I am a member , and also Mr. Broderson , Mr. Annixter , and Mr. Harran Derrick . 
What our aims are we will explain to you later . 
Let this committee be the nucleus of the League temporarily , at least . 
We are working for you and with you . 
The Governor's name was received with a storm of cheers . 
The harness room reechoed with shouts of Derrick ! Derrick ! Magnus for President ! Derrick , our natural leader . 
Derrick , Derrick , Derrick for President . 
Magnus rose to his feet . 
Erect as a cavalry officer , tall , thin , commanding , he dominated the crowd in an instant . 
There was a moment's hush . 
Gentlemen , he said , if organisation is a good word , moderation is a better one . 
The matter is too grave for haste . 
As for the honour with which you would inform me , I must affirm that that , too , is a matter for grave deliberation . 
This League is but a name as yet . 
To accept control of an organisation whose principles are not yet fixed is a heavy responsibility . 
I shrink from it But he was allowed to proceed no farther . 
A storm of protest developed . 
There were shouts of No , no . 
The League to night and Derrick for President . 
We have been moderate too long . 
The League first , principles afterward . 
We can't wait , declared Osterman . 
Many of us cannot attend a meeting to morrow . 
Our business affairs would prevent it . 
Now we are all together . 
I propose a temporary chairman and secretary be named and a ballot be taken . 
He subsided amidst vigorous applause . 
The next quarter of an hour was a vague confusion , every one talking at once , conversations going on in low tones in various corners of the room . 
Ink , pens , and a sheaf of foolscap were brought from the ranch house . 
A set of resolutions was draughted , having the force of a pledge , organising the League of Defence . 
Annixter was the first to sign . 
Others followed , only a few holding back , refusing to join till they had thought the matter over . 
The roll grew the paper circulated about the table each signature was welcomed by a salvo of cheers . 
At length , it reached Harran Derrick , who signed amid tremendous uproar . 
He released the pen only to shake a score of hands . 
Gentlemen , began the Governor , once more rising , I beg of you to allow me further consideration . 
Gentlemen He was interrupted by renewed shouting . 
No , no , now or never . 
Sign , join the League . 
We look to you to help . 
But presently the excited throng that turned their faces towards the Governor were aware of a new face at his elbow . 
Trembling , she clung to Magnus's arm , her pretty light brown hair in disarray , her large young girl's eyes wide with terror and distrust . 
She seized her husband's arm imploring , distraught with terror . 
No , no , she murmured no , don't sign . 
She was the feather caught in the whirlwind . 
En masse , the crowd surged toward the erect figure of the Governor , the pen in one hand , his wife's fingers in the other , the roll of signatures before him . 
The clamour was deafening the excitement culminated brusquely . 
Half a hundred hands stretched toward him thirty voices , at top pitch , implored , expostulated , urged , almost commanded . 
The reverberation of the shouting was as the plunge of a cataract . 
It was the uprising of The People the thunder of the outbreak of revolt the mob demanding to be led , aroused at last , imperious , resistless , overwhelming . 
No , no , implored Annie Derrick . 
No , Magnus , don't sign . 
He must , declared Harran , shouting in her ear to make himself heard , he must . 
Don't you understand ? Again the crowd surged forward , roaring . 
Mrs. Derrick was swept back , pushed to one side . 
Her husband no longer belonged to her . 
She paid the penalty for being the wife of a great man . 
The world , like a colossal iron wedge , crushed itself between . 
She was thrust to the wall . 
The throng of men , stamping , surrounded Magnus she could no longer see him , but , terror struck , she listened . 
There was a moment's lull , then a vast thunder of savage jubilation . 
Harran found his mother leaning against the wall , her hands shut over her ears her eyes , dilated with fear , brimming with tears . 
Already the balloting was in progress , Osterman acting as temporary chairman on the very first ballot he was made secretary of the League pro tem . 
, and Magnus unanimously chosen for its President . 
An executive committee was formed , which was to meet the next day at the Los Muertos ranch house . 
It was half past one o'clock . 
In the barn outside the greater number of the guests had departed . 
Long since the musicians had disappeared . 
There only remained the families of the ranch owners involved in the meeting in the harness room . 
For a long half hour the loud hum of eager conversation continued to issue from behind the door of the harness room . 
Then , at length , there was a prolonged scraping of chairs . 
The men came out in groups , searching for their families . 
At once the homeward movement began . 
Every one was worn out . 
Some of the ranchers' daughters had gone to sleep against their mothers' shoulders . 
Billy , the stableman , and his assistant were awakened , and the teams were hitched up . 
The stable yard was full of a maze of swinging lanterns and buggy lamps . 
The horses fretted , champing the bits the carry alls creaked with the straining of leather and springs as they received their loads . 
At every instant one heard the rattle of wheels . 
as vehicle after vehicle disappeared in the night . 
A fine , drizzling rain was falling , and the lamps began to show dim in a vague haze of orange light . 
Magnus Derrick was the last to go . 
At the doorway of the barn he found Annixter , the roll of names which it had been decided he was to keep in his safe for the moment under his arm . 
Silently the two shook hands . 
For a moment the beat of the horses' hoofs made itself heard on the roadway . 
Suddenly there was a great silence . 
Annixter , in the doorway of the great barn , stood looking about him for a moment , alone , thoughtful . 
That astonishing evening had come to an end . 
Time enough in the morning to think it all over . 
By now it was raining sharply . 
He put the roll of names into his inside pocket , threw a sack over his head and shoulders , and went down to the ranch house . 
At length , they rose , and came out upon the floor of the barn and stood for a moment looking about them . 
Billy , the stableman , was going the rounds of the walls , putting out light after light . 
By degrees , the vast interior was growing dim . 
Upon the roof overhead the rain drummed incessantly , the eaves dripping . 
The floor was littered with pine needles , bits of orange peel , ends and fragments of torn organdies and muslins and bits of tissue paper from the Phrygian Bonnets and Liberty Caps . 
The buckskin mare in the stall , dozing on three legs , changed position with a long sigh . 
The sweat stiffening the hair upon her back and loins , as it dried , gave off a penetrating , ammoniacal odour that mingled with the stale perfume of sachet and wilted flowers . 
Presley and Vanamee stood looking at the deserted barn . 
There was a long silence . 
what do you think of it all ? I think , answered Vanamee slowly , I think that there was a dance in Brussels the night before Waterloo . 
The subdued monotone of his voice proceeded evenly from sentence to sentence , regular , precise , businesslike . 
, I would say His voice continued , expressionless , measured , distinct . 
That's all for the present , he said at length . 
Without reply , the typewriter rose and withdrew , thrusting her pencil into the coil of her hair , closing the door behind her , softly , discreetly . 
When she had gone , Lyman rose , stretching himself putting up three fingers to hide his yawn . 
He was between thirty one and thirty five years of age . 
He was dressed carefully , his trousers creased , a pink rose in his lapel . 
His shoes were of patent leather , his cutaway coat was of very rough black cheviot , his double breasted waistcoat of tan covered cloth with buttons of smoked pearl . 
An Ascot scarf a great puff of heavy black silk was at his neck , the knot transfixed by a tiny golden pin set off with an opal and four small diamonds . 
Below him the city swarmed tumultuous through its grooves , the cable cars starting and stopping with a gay jangling of bells and a strident whirring of jostled glass windows . 
Drays and carts clattered over the cobbles , and an incessant shuffling of thousands of feet rose from the pavement . 
But to Lyman's notion the general impression of this centre of the city's life was not one of strenuous business activity . 
As Lyman turned from the window , about to resume his work , the office boy appeared at the door . 
The man from the lithograph company , sir , announced the boy . 
Well , what does he want ? demanded Lyman , adding , however , upon the instant Show him in . 
What is ? Don't know , replied the other . 
I don't want any maps . 
Who sent them ? I guess you're mistaken . 
Lyman tore the cover from the top of the package , drawing out one of a great many huge sheets of white paper , folded eight times . 
Suddenly , he uttered an exclamation Ah , I see . 
But these should not have come here . 
They are to go to the regular office for distribution . 
He wrote a new direction on the label of the package Take them to that address , he went on . 
I'll keep this one here . 
The others go to that address . 
The young man departed with the package and Lyman , spreading out the map upon the table , remained for some time studying it thoughtfully . 
It was a commissioner's official railway map of the State of California , completed to March th of that year . 
Upon it the different railways of the State were accurately plotted in various colours , blue , green , yellow . 
However , the blue , the yellow , and the green were but brief traceries , very short , isolated , unimportant . 
At a little distance these could hardly be seen . 
Darrell was rabidly against the P. and S. W. , McNish rabidly for it . 
Osterman's dexterity had at last succeeded in entangling Magnus inextricably in the new politics . 
The famous League , organised in the heat of passion the night of Annixter's barn dance , had been consolidated all through the winter months . 
Its executive committee , of which Magnus was chairman , had been , through Osterman's manipulation , merged into the old committee composed of Broderson , Annixter , and himself . 
Promptly thereat he had resigned the chairmanship of this committee , thus leaving Magnus at its head . 
Precisely as Osterman had planned , Magnus was now one of them . 
The land cases were promptly taken to the courts and the new grading fixing the price of the lands at twenty and thirty dollars an acre instead of two bitterly and stubbornly fought . 
It was Harran who first suggested that his brother , Lyman , be put forward as the candidate for this district . 
At once the proposition had a great success . 
Lyman seemed made for the place . 
While allied by every tie of blood to the ranching interests , he had never been identified with them . 
The Railroad would not be over suspicious of him . 
More than all , he was the son of Magnus Derrick he could be relied upon , could be trusted implicitly to remain loyal to the ranchers' cause . 
The campaign for Railroad Commissioner had been very interesting . 
At the very outset Magnus's committee found itself involved in corrupt politics . 
The primaries had to be captured at all costs and by any means , and when the convention assembled it was found necessary to buy outright the votes of certain delegates . 
The campaign fund raised by contributions from Magnus , Annixter , Broderson , and Osterman was drawn upon to the extent of five thousand dollars . 
Only the committee knew of this corruption . 
The League , ignoring ways and means , supposed as a matter of course that the campaign was honorably conducted . 
The shame of the business , the loathing of what he had done , were to him things unspeakable . 
He could no longer look Harran in the face . 
He began a course of deception with his wife . 
More than once , he had resolved to break with the whole affair , resigning his position , allowing the others to proceed without him . 
But now it was too late . 
He had joined the League . 
He was its chief , and his defection might mean its disintegration at the very time when it needed all its strength to fight the land cases . 
More than a mere deal in bad politics was involved . 
There was the land grab . 
His withdrawal from an unholy cause would mean the weakening , perhaps the collapse , of another cause that he believed to be righteous as truth itself . 
He was hopelessly caught in the mesh . 
Wrong seemed indissolubly knitted into the texture of Right . 
He was blinded , dizzied , overwhelmed , caught in the current of events , and hurried along he knew not where . 
In the end , and after much ostentatious opposition on the part of the railroad heelers , Lyman was nominated and subsequently elected . 
When this consummation was reached Magnus , Osterman , Broderson , and Annixter stared at each other . 
Their wildest hopes had not dared to fix themselves upon so easy a victory as this . 
It was not believable that the corporation would allow itself to be fooled so easily , would rush open eyed into the trap . 
How had it happened ? Osterman , however , threw his hat into the air with wild whoops of delight . 
Old Broderson permitted himself a feeble cheer . 
The other members of the League , present at the time , shook hands all around and spoke of opening a few bottles on the strength of the occasion . 
It's too easy , he declared . 
No , I'm not satisfied . 
Where's Shelgrim in all this ? Why don't he show his hand , damn his soul ? The thing is yellow , I tell you . 
There's a big fish in these waters somewheres . 
I don't know his name , and I don't know his game , but he's moving round off and on , just out of sight . 
If you think you've netted him , I DON'T , that's all I've got to say . 
But he was jeered down as a croaker . 
He couldn't get around that , could he ? There was Darrell and Lyman Derrick , both pledged to the ranches . 
Good Lord , he was never satisfied . 
He'd be obstinate till the very last gun was fired . 
Why , if he got drowned in a river he'd float upstream just to be contrary . 
In the course of time , the new board was seated . 
For the first few months of its term , it was occupied in clearing up the business left over by the old board and in the completion of the railway map . 
But now , the decks were cleared . 
It was about to address itself to the consideration of a revision of the tariff for the carriage of grain between the San Joaquin Valley and tide water . 
Both Lyman and Darrell were pledged to an average ten per cent . 
cut of the grain rates throughout the entire State . 
But towards noon , at the moment when Lyman was drawing off a glass of mineral water from the siphon that stood at his elbow , there was an interruption . 
Some one rapped vigorously upon the door , which was immediately after opened , and Magnus and Harran came in , followed by Presley . 
Hello , hello ! cried Lyman , jumping up , extending his hands , why , here's a surprise . 
I didn't expect you all till to night . 
Come in , come in and sit down . 
Have a glass of sizz water , Governor . 
The offer had been angrily rejected , and the Railroad had put up the lands for sale at Ruggles's office in Bonneville . 
Prominent among them , and bidding for the railroad's holdings included on Annixter's ranch , was Delaney . 
The farce of deeding the corporation's sections to these fictitious purchasers was solemnly gone through with at Ruggles's office , the Railroad guaranteeing them possession . 
During the time the cases were on trial at Visalia , S. Behrman was much in evidence in and about the courts . 
The trial itself , after tedious preliminaries , was brief . 
The test cases were immediately carried up to the United States Circuit Court in San Francisco . 
At the moment the decision of this court was pending . 
Why , this is news , exclaimed Lyman , in response to the Governor's announcement I did not expect them to be so prompt . 
I was in court only last week and there seemed to be no end of business ahead . 
I suppose you are very anxious ? Magnus nodded . 
He had seated himself in one of Lyman's deep chairs , his grey top hat , with its wide brim , on the floor beside him . 
His coat of black broad cloth that had been tightly packed in his valise , was yet wrinkled and creased his trousers were strapped under his high boots . 
As he spoke , he stroked the bridge of his hawklike nose with his bent forefinger . 
Leaning back in his chair , he watched his two sons with secret delight . 
To his eye , both were perfect specimens of their class , intelligent , well looking , resourceful . 
He was intensely proud of them . 
He was never happier , never more nearly jovial , never more erect , more military , more alert , and buoyant than when in the company of his two sons . 
He honestly believed that no finer examples of young manhood existed throughout the entire nation . 
I think we should win in this court , Harran observed , watching the bubbles break in his glass . 
The investigation has been much more complete than in the Visalia trial . 
Our case this time is too good . 
It has made too much talk . 
The court would not dare render a decision for the Railroad . 
Why , there's the agreement in black and white and the circulars the Railroad issued . 
How CAN one get around those ? Well , well , we shall know in a few hours now , remarked Magnus . 
Oh , exclaimed Lyman , surprised , it is for this morning , then . 
Why aren't you at the court ? It seemed undignified , boy , answered the Governor . 
We shall know soon enough . 
Good God ! exclaimed Harran abruptly , when I think of what is involved . 
And it is not only us . 
There are over half a million acres of the San Joaquin involved . 
In some cases of the smaller ranches , it is the confiscation of the whole of the rancher's land . 
If this thing goes through , it will absolutely beggar nearly a hundred men . 
Broderson wouldn't have a thousand acres to his name . 
But the corporations offered to lease these lands , remarked Lyman . 
None of the LEAGUERS are doing it , I know . 
That would be the rankest treachery . 
It's a make or break for the wheat growers of the State now , no mistake . 
Here are the land cases and the new grain tariff drawing to a head at about the same time . 
If we win our land cases , there's your new freight rates to be applied , and then all is beer and skittles . 
Won't the San Joaquin go wild if we pull it off , and I believe we will . 
How we wheat growers are exploited and trapped and deceived at every turn , observed Magnus sadly . 
The courts , the capitalists , the railroads , each of them in turn hoodwinks us into some new and wonderful scheme , only to betray us in the end . 
Well , he added , turning to Lyman , one thing at least we can depend on . 
We will cut their grain rates for them , eh , Lyman ? Lyman crossed his legs and settled himself in his office chair . 
I have wanted to have a talk with you about that , sir , he said . 
Yes , we will cut the rates an average per cent . 
cut throughout the State , as we are pledged . 
But I am going to warn you , Governor , and you , Harran don't expect too much at first . 
I respect you for it , my son . 
I know you will be fair to the railroad . 
That is all we want . 
Fairness to the corporation is fairness to the farmer , and we won't expect you to readjust the whole matter out of hand . 
We can afford to wait . 
By then it will be too late . 
We will , all of us , have made our fortunes by then . 
The remark left Presley astonished out of all measure He never could accustom himself to these strange lapses in the Governor's character . 
At the very bottom , when all was said and done , Magnus remained the Forty niner . 
Deep down in his heart the spirit of the Adventurer yet persisted . 
We will all of us have made fortunes by then . 
It was in this frame of mind that Magnus and the multitude of other ranchers of whom he was a type , farmed their ranches . 
They had no love for their land . 
They were not attached to the soil . 
They worked their ranches as a quarter of a century before they had worked their mines . 
To husband the resources of their marvellous San Joaquin , they considered niggardly , petty , Hebraic . 
To get all there was out of the land , to squeeze it dry , to exhaust it , seemed their policy . 
When , at last , the land worn out , would refuse to yield , they would invest their money in something else by then , they would all have made fortunes . 
Lyman , however , was obviously uneasy , willing to change the subject . 
He rose to his feet , pulling down his cuffs . 
By the way , he observed , I want you three to lunch with me to day at my club . 
You can wait there for news of the court's decision as well as anywhere else , and I should like to show you the place . 
At the club , when the four men were seated at a small table in the round window of the main room , Lyman's popularity with all classes was very apparent . 
Hardly a man entered that did not call out a salutation to him , some even coming over to shake his hand . 
He seemed to be every man's friend , and to all he seemed equally genial . 
His affability , even to those whom he disliked , was unfailing . 
How he got in here is a mystery to me . 
Yet , when this Hartrath came across to say How do you do to Lyman , Lyman was as eager in his cordiality as his warmest friend could have expected . 
Why the devil are you so chummy with him , then ? observed Harran when Hartrath had gone away . 
The truth of the matter was , that Magnus's oldest son was consumed by inordinate ambition . 
Political preferment was his dream , and to the realisation of this dream popularity was an essential . 
Every man who could vote , blackguard or gentleman , was to be conciliated , if possible . 
He made it his study to become known throughout the entire community to put influential men under obligations to himself . 
He never forgot a name or a face . 
With everybody he was the hail fellow well met . 
His ambition was not trivial . 
In his disregard for small things , he resembled his father . 
Municipal office had no attraction for him . 
He had planned his life twenty years ahead . 
Already Sheriff's Attorney , Assistant District Attorney and Railroad Commissioner , he could , if he desired , attain the office of District Attorney itself . 
Just now , it was a question with him whether or not it would be politic to fill this office . 
He wanted to be , in fact , what his father was only in name to succeed where Magnus had failed . 
He wanted to be governor of the State . 
After luncheon was over , Lyman ordered cigars and liqueurs , and with the three others returned to the main room of the club . 
However , their former place in the round window was occupied . 
At sight of him , Presley became animated . 
He uttered a mild exclamation Why , isn't that Mr. Cedarquist ? Cedarquist ? repeated Lyman Derrick . 
Yes , of course , it is , he continued . 
Governor , you must know him . 
He is one of our representative men . 
You would enjoy talking to him . 
He was the head of the big Atlas Iron Works . 
They have shut down recently , you know . 
Not failed exactly , but just ceased to be a paying investment , and Cedarquist closed them out . 
He has other interests , though . 
He's a rich man a capitalist . 
Lyman brought the group up to the gentleman in question and introduced them . 
Mr. Magnus Derrick , of course , observed Cedarquist , as he took the Governor's hand . 
I've known you by repute for some time , sir . 
This is a great pleasure , I assure you . 
Then , turning to Presley , he added Hello , Pres , my boy . 
How is the great , the very great Poem getting on ? It's not getting on at all , sir , answered Presley , in some embarrassment , as they all sat down . 
In fact , I've about given up the idea . 
There's so much interest in what you might call 'living issues' down at Los Muertos now , that I'm getting further and further from it every day . 
I should say as much , remarked the manufacturer , turning towards Magnus . 
I'm watching your fight with Shelgrim , Mr. Derrick , with every degree of interest . 
He raised his drink of whiskey and soda . 
As he replaced his glass , the artist Hartrath joined the group uninvited . 
As a pretext , he engaged Lyman in conversation . 
Lyman , he believed , was a man with a pull at the City Hall . 
In the matter of this Fair and Flower Festival , Hartrath was not lacking in enthusiasm . 
He addressed the others with extravagant gestures , blinking his inflamed eyelids . 
A million dollars , he exclaimed . 
Hey ! think of that . 
Why , do you know that we have five hundred thousand practically pledged already ? Talk about public spirit , gentlemen , this is the most public spirited city on the continent . 
And the money is not thrown away . 
We will have Eastern visitors here by the thousands capitalists men with money to invest . 
The million we spend on our fair will be money in our pockets . 
Ah , you should see how the women of this city are taking hold of the matter . 
It is splendid , splendid , to see a community so patriotic . 
The manufacturer , Cedarquist , fixed the artist with a glance of melancholy interest . 
We don't want public statues , and fountains , and park extensions and gingerbread fetes . 
Isn't it like us ? Isn't it like us ? he exclaimed sadly . 
What a melancholy comment ! San Francisco ! It is not a city it is a Midway Plaisance . 
California likes to be fooled . 
Do you suppose Shelgrim could convert the whole San Joaquin Valley into his back yard otherwise ? Indifference to public affairs absolute indifference , it stamps us all . 
Our State is the very paradise of fakirs . 
You and your Million Dollar Fair ! He turned to Hartrath with a quiet smile . 
It is just such men as you , Mr. Hartrath , that are the ruin of us . 
Your ginger bread fete yes , I saw it in full blast the other night on the grounds of one of your women's places on Sutter Street . 
I was on my way home from the last board meeting of the Atlas Company . 
A gingerbread fete , my God ! and the Atlas plant shutting down for want of financial backing . 
A million dollars spent to attract the Eastern investor , in order to show him an abandoned rolling mill , wherein the only activity is the sale of remnant material and scrap steel . 
Lyman , however , interfered . 
The situation was becoming strained . 
He tried to conciliate the three men the artist , the manufacturer , and the farmer , the warring elements . 
But Hartrath , unwilling to face the enmity that he felt accumulating against him , took himself away . 
A picture of his A Study of the Contra Costa Foot hills was to be raffled in the club rooms for the benefit of the Fair . 
He , himself , was in charge of the matter . 
Cedarquist looked after him with contemplative interest . 
Then , turning to Magnus , excused himself for the acridity of his words . 
He's no worse than many others , and the people of this State and city are , after all , only a little more addle headed than other Americans . 
It was his favourite topic . 
Sure of the interest of his hearers , he unburdened himself . 
If I were to name the one crying evil of American life , Mr. Derrick , he continued , it would be the indifference of the better people to public affairs . 
It is so in all our great centres . 
There are other great trusts , God knows , in the United States besides our own dear P. and S. W. Railroad . 
Every State has its own grievance . 
The indifference of the People is the opportunity of the despot . 
It is as true as that the whole is greater than the part , and the maxim is so old that it is trite it is laughable . 
The People have but to say 'No , and not the strongest tyranny , political , religious , or financial , that was ever organised , could survive one week . 
The others , absorbed , attentive , approved , nodding their heads in silence as the manufacturer finished . 
That's one reason , Mr. Derrick , the other resumed after a moment , why I have been so glad to meet you . 
You and your League are trying to say 'No' to the trust . 
I hope you will succeed . 
If your example will rally the People to your cause , you will . 
Otherwise he shook his head . 
One stage of the fight is to be passed this very day , observed Magnus . 
My sons and myself are expecting hourly news from the City Hall , a decision in our case is pending . 
We are both of us fighters , it seems , Mr. Derrick , said Cedarquist . 
Each with his particular enemy . 
Pres , my boy , there is your epic poem ready to hand . 
But Cedarquist was full of another idea . 
Rarely did so favourable an opportunity present itself for explaining his theories , his ambitions . 
Addressing himself to Magnus , he continued Fortunately for myself , the Atlas Company was not my only investment . 
The building of ships steel sailing ships has been an ambition of mine , for this purpose , Mr. Derrick , to carry American wheat . 
For years , I have studied this question of American wheat , and at last , I have arrived at a theory . 
At present , all our California wheat goes to Liverpool , and from that port is distributed over the world . 
But a change is coming . 
I am sure of it . 
You young men , he turned to Presley , Lyman , and Harran , will live to see it . 
Our century is about done . 
The great word of this nineteenth century has been Production . 
The great word of the twentieth century will be listen to me , you youngsters Markets . 
As a market for our Production or let me take a concrete example as a market for our WHEAT , Europe is played out . 
Population in Europe is not increasing fast enough to keep up with the rapidity of our production . 
In some cases , as in France , the population is stationary . 
WE , however , have gone on producing wheat at a tremendous rate . 
The result is over production . 
We supply more than Europe can eat , and down go the prices . 
The remedy is NOT in the curtailing of our wheat areas , but in this , we MUST HAVE NEW MARKETS , GREATER MARKETS . 
For years we have been sending our wheat from East to West , from California to Europe . 
But the time will come when we must send it from West to East . 
We must march with the course of empire , not against it . 
I mean , we must look to China . 
Rice in China is losing its nutritive quality . 
The Asiatics , though , must be fed if not on rice , then on wheat . 
Why , Mr. Derrick , if only one half the population of China ate a half ounce of flour per man per day all the wheat areas in California could not feed them . 
Ah , if I could only hammer that into the brains of every rancher of the San Joaquin , yes , and of every owner of every bonanza farm in Dakota and Minnesota . 
Send your wheat to China handle it yourselves do away with the middleman break up the Chicago wheat pits and elevator rings and mixing houses . 
When in feeding China you have decreased the European shipments , the effect is instantaneous . 
Prices go up in Europe without having the least effect upon the prices in China . 
We hold the key , we have the wheat , infinitely more than we ourselves can eat . 
Asia and Europe must look to America to be fed . 
The manufacturer's idea was new to the Governor . 
He withdrew from the conversation . 
Thoughtful , he leaned back in his place , stroking the bridge of his beak like nose with a crooked forefinger . 
Cedarquist turned to Harran and began asking details as to the conditions of the wheat growers of the San Joaquin . 
Lyman still maintained an attitude of polite aloofness , yawning occasionally behind three fingers , and Presley was left to the company of his own thoughts . 
There had been a day when the affairs and grievances of the farmers of his acquaintance Magnus , Annixter , Osterman , and old Broderson had filled him only with disgust . 
His mind full of a great , vague epic poem of the West , he had kept himself apart , disdainful of what he chose to consider their petty squabbles . 
But the scene in Annixter's harness room had thrilled and uplifted him . 
He was palpitating with excitement all through the succeeding months . 
He abandoned the idea of an epic poem . 
In six months he had not written a single verse . 
Day after day he trembled with excitement as the relations between the Trust and League became more and more strained . 
He saw the matter in its true light . 
But , as he had once explained to Vanamee , he must find expression . 
He felt that he would suffocate otherwise . 
He had begun to keep a journal . 
As the inclination spurred him , he wrote down his thoughts and ideas in this , sometimes every day , sometimes only three or four times a month . 
Also he flung aside his books of poems Milton , Tennyson , Browning , even Homer and addressed himself to Mill , Malthus , Young , Poushkin , Henry George , Schopenhauer . 
He attacked the subject of Social Inequality with unbounded enthusiasm . 
The butt of his cigarette scorched his fingers and roused him from his brooding . 
Presley uttered a murmur of surprise . 
He , himself , was a member of the club , and the presence of women within its doors , except on special occasions , was not tolerated . 
He turned to Lyman Derrick for an explanation , but this other had also seen the women and abruptly exclaimed I declare , I had forgotten about it . 
Why , this is Ladies' Day , of course . 
Why , yes , interposed Cedarquist , glancing at the women over his shoulder . 
Didn't you know ? They let 'em in twice a year , you remember , and this is a double occasion . 
They are going to raffle Hartrath's picture , for the benefit of the Gingerbread Fair . 
Why , you are not up to date , Lyman . 
This is a sacred and religious rite , an important public event . 
Of course , of course , murmured Lyman . 
He found means to survey Harran and Magnus . 
Certainly , neither his father nor his brother were dressed for the function that impended . 
But there was no help for it . 
He wondered what were the club regulations in the matter of bringing in visitors on Ladies' Day . 
Sure enough , Ladies' Day , he remarked , I am very glad you struck it , Governor . 
We can sit right where we are . 
I guess this is as good a place as any to see the crowd . 
It's a good chance to see all the big guns of the city . 
Do you expect your people here , Mr. Cedarquist ? My wife may come , and my daughters , said the manufacturer . 
Ah , murmured Presley , so much the better . 
I was going to give myself the pleasure of calling upon your daughters , Mr. Cedarquist , this afternoon . 
You can save your carfare , Pres , said Cedarquist , you will see them here . 
No doubt , the invitations for the occasion had appointed one o'clock as the time , for between that hour and two , the guests arrived in an almost unbroken stream . 
From their point of vantage in the round window of the main room , Magnus , his two sons , and Presley looked on very interested . 
Cedarquist had excused himself , affirming that he must look out for his women folk . 
Of every ten of the arrivals , seven , at least , were ladies . 
Fresh from his recollections of Bonneville , Guadalajara , and the dance in Annixter's barn , Presley was astonished at the beauty of these women and the elegance of their toilettes . 
A murmur of conversation arose , subdued , gracious , mingled with the soft rustle of silk , grenadines , velvet . 
The scent of delicate perfumes spread in the air , Violet de Parme , Peau d'Espagne . 
Colours of the most harmonious blends appeared and disappeared at intervals in the slowly moving press , touches of lavender tinted velvets , pale violet crepes and cream coloured appliqued laces . 
There seemed to be no need of introductions . 
Everybody appeared to be acquainted . 
There was no awkwardness , no constraint . 
The assembly disengaged an impression of refined pleasure . 
On every hand , innumerable dialogues seemed to go forward easily and naturally , without break or interruption , witty , engaging , the couple never at a loss for repartee . 
A third party was gracefully included , then a fourth . 
At a distance , and not too loud , a stringed orchestra sent up a pleasing hum . 
Waiters , with brass buttons on their full dress coats , went from group to group , silent , unobtrusive , serving salads and ices . 
But the focus of the assembly was the little space before Hartrath's painting . 
It was called A Study of the Contra Costa Foothills , and was set in a frame of natural redwood , the bark still adhering . 
It was conspicuously displayed on an easel at the right of the entrance to the main room of the club , and was very large . 
They spoke of atmospheric effects , of middle distance , of chiaro oscuro , of fore shortening , of the decomposition of light , of the subordination of individuality to fidelity of interpretation . 
This verdict had an immediate success . 
It was passed from group to group . 
It seemed to imply a delicate distinction that carried conviction at once . 
He was suddenly aware of Cedarquist's voice in his ear , and , turning about , found himself face to face with the manufacturer , his wife and his two daughters . 
Mrs. Cedarquist and her two daughters declared that the air of Los Muertos must certainly have done him a world of good . 
He was stouter , there could be no doubt of it . 
A little pale , perhaps . 
He was fatiguing himself with his writing , no doubt . 
Ah , he must take care . 
Health was everything , after all . 
Had he been writing any more verse ? Every month they scanned the magazines , looking for his name . 
Mrs. Cedarquist was a fashionable woman , the president or chairman of a score of clubs . 
And all these people had a veritable mania for declamation and fancy dress . 
The widow of India , in the costume of her caste , described the social life of her people at home . 
The bearded poet , perspiring in furs and boots of reindeer skin , declaimed verses of his own composition about the wild life of the Alaskan mining camps . 
The Christian Scientist , in funereal , impressive black , discussed the contra will and pan psychic hylozoism . 
The Cherokee , arrayed in fringed buckskin and blue beads , rented from a costumer , intoned folk songs of his people in the vernacular . 
The elocutionist in cheese cloth toga and tin bracelets , rendered The Isles of Greece , where burning Sappho loved and sung . 
The Chinaman , in the robes of a mandarin , lectured on Confucius . 
The Armenian , in fez and baggy trousers , spoke of the Unspeakable Turk . 
The mandolin player , dressed like a bull fighter , held musical conversaziones , interpreting the peasant songs of Andalusia . 
The attention the Fake received , the time devoted to it , the money which it absorbed , were incredible . 
It was all one that impostor after impostor was exposed it was all one that the clubs , the circles , the societies were proved beyond doubt to have been swindled . 
The more the Philistine press of the city railed and guyed , the more the women rallied to the defence of their protege of the hour . 
That their favourite was persecuted , was to them a veritable rapture . 
Promptly they invested the apostle of culture with the glamour of a martyr . 
The decayed professors , virtuosi , litterateurs , and artists thronged to the place en masse . 
Their clamour filled all the air . 
Money to the extent of hundreds of thousands was set in motion . 
Mrs. Cedarquist was busy from morning until night . 
One after another , she was introduced to newly arrived fakirs . 
She was in the movement . 
The people of the city were awakening to a Realisation of the Beautiful , to a sense of the higher needs of life . 
This was Art , this was Literature , this was Culture and Refinement . 
The Renaissance had appeared in the West . 
She was a short , rather stout , red faced , very much over dressed little woman of some fifty years . 
She was rich in her own name , even before her marriage , being a relative of Shelgrim himself and on familiar terms with the great financier and his family . 
Her husband , while deploring the policy of the railroad , saw no good reason for quarrelling with Shelgrim , and on more than one occasion had dined at his house . 
On this occasion , delighted that she had come upon a minor poet , she insisted upon presenting him to Hartrath . 
You two should have so much in common , she explained . 
Presley shook the flaccid hand of the artist , murmuring conventionalities , while Mrs. Cedarquist hastened to say I am sure you know Mr. Presley's verse , Mr. Hartrath . 
You should , believe me . 
You two have much in common . 
I can see so much that is alike in your modes of interpreting nature . 
Oh , my dear Madame , murmured the artist , interrupting Presley's impatient retort I am a mere bungler . 
You don't mean quite that , I am sure . 
Beauty , he closed his sore eyes with a little expression of pain , beauty unmans me . 
But Mrs. Cedarquist was not listening . 
Her eyes were fixed on the artist's luxuriant hair , a thick and glossy mane , that all but covered his coat collar . 
Leonine ! she murmured leonine ! Like Samson of old . 
However , abruptly bestirring herself , she exclaimed a second later But I must run away . 
I am selling tickets for you this afternoon , Mr. Hartrath . 
I am having such success . 
Mr. Presley , you will take two chances , I am sure , and , oh , by the way , I have such good news . 
You know I am one of the lady members of the subscription committee for our Fair , and you know we approached Mr. Shelgrim for a donation to help along . 
Oh , such a liberal patron , a real Lorenzo di' Medici . 
In the name of the Pacific and Southwestern he has subscribed , think of it , five thousand dollars and yet they will talk of the meanness of the railroad . 
Possibly it is to his interest , murmured Presley . 
The fairs and festivals bring people to the city over his railroad . 
But the others turned on him , expostulating . 
Ah , you Philistine , declared Mrs. Cedarquist . 
The group turned about and saw Cedarquist , who had come up unobserved in time to catch the drift of the talk . 
But he spoke without bitterness there was even a good humoured twinkle in his eyes . 
Does your work progress ? Oh , most famously , I assure you , she said . 
Such a movement as we have started . 
The photographs of them are simply dreadful . 
I had the committee to luncheon the other day and we passed them around . 
We are getting subscriptions from all over the State , and Mr. Cedarquist is to arrange for the ship . 
The whole world had been struck with horror at the reports of suffering and mortality in the affected districts , and had hastened to send aid . 
Shortly afterward a mild commotion spread throughout the assemblage of the club's guests . 
The drawing of the numbers in the raffle was about to be made . 
Hartrath , in a flurry of agitation , excused himself . 
Cedarquist took Presley by the arm . 
Pres , let's get out of this , he said . 
Come into the wine room and I will shake you for a glass of sherry . 
They had some difficulty in extricating themselves . 
The main room where the drawing was to take place suddenly became densely thronged . 
All the guests pressed eagerly about the table near the picture , upon which one of the hall boys had just placed a ballot box containing the numbers . 
The ladies , holding their tickets in their hands , pushed forward . 
A staccato chatter of excited murmurs arose . 
What became of Harran and Lyman and the Governor ? inquired Presley . 
Lyman had disappeared , alleging a business engagement , but Magnus and his younger son had retired to the library of the club on the floor above . 
They were deep in earnest conversation . 
Harran , said the Governor , with decision , there is a deal , there , in what Cedarquist says . 
Our wheat to China , hey , boy ? It is certainly worth thinking of , sir . 
It appeals to me , boy it appeals to me . 
It's big and there's a fortune in it . 
Boy , the whole East is opening , disintegrating before the Anglo Saxon . 
It is time that bread stuffs , as well , should make markets for themselves in the Orient . 
Just at this moment , too , when Lyman will scale down freight rates so we can haul to tidewater at little cost . 
I believe it's worth looking into , Governor , asserted Harran . 
Magnus rose , and , his hands behind him , paced the floor of the library a couple of times , his imagination all stimulated and vivid . 
The great gambler perceived his Chance , the kaleidoscopic shifting of circumstances that made a Situation . 
It had come silently , unexpectedly . 
He had not seen its approach . 
Abruptly he woke one morning to see the combination realised . 
But also he saw a vision . 
A sudden and abrupt revolution in the Wheat . 
A new world of markets discovered , the matter as important as the discovery of America . 
Himself , Annixter , Broderson and Osterman would pool their issues . 
He would convince them of the magnificence of the new movement . 
They would be its pioneers . 
Harran would be sent to Hong Kong to represent the four . 
It would mark a new era it would make an epoch . 
With this vision still expanding before the eye of his mind , Magnus , with Harran at his elbow , prepared to depart . 
Near the head of the stairs they encountered Presley and Cedarquist , who had just come out of the wine room . 
Magnus , still on fire with the new idea , pressed a few questions upon the manufacturer before bidding him good bye . 
He wished to talk further upon the great subject , interested as to details , but Cedarquist was vague in his replies . 
He was no farmer , he hardly knew wheat when he saw it , only he knew the trend of the world's affairs he felt them to be setting inevitably eastward . 
However , his very vagueness was a further inspiration to the Governor . 
He saw his wheat , like the crest of an advancing billow , crossing the Pacific , bursting upon Asia , flooding the Orient in a golden torrent . 
It was the new era . 
He had lived to see the death of the old and the birth of the new first the mine , now the ranch first gold , now wheat . 
Once again he became the pioneer , hardy , brilliant , taking colossal chances , blazing the way , grasping a fortune a million in a single day . 
All the bigness of his nature leaped up again within him . 
At last he could achieve . 
Abruptly Magnus was aware that some one had spoken his name . 
He looked about and saw behind him , at a little distance , two gentlemen , strangers to him . 
They had withdrawn from the crowd into a little recess . 
Evidently having no women to look after , they had lost interest in the afternoon's affair . 
Magnus realised that they had not seen him . 
One of them was reading aloud to his companion from an evening edition of that day's newspaper . 
It was in the course of this reading that Magnus caught the sound of his name . 
He paused , listening , and Presley , Harran and Cedarquist followed his example . 
They were listening to the report of the judge's decision , for which Magnus was waiting the decision in the case of the League vs . 
For the moment , the polite clamour of the raffle hushed itself the winning number was being drawn . 
The guests held their breath , and in the ensuing silence Magnus and the others heard these words distinctly . 
It follows that the title to the lands in question is in the plaintiff the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad , and the defendants have no title , and their possession is wrongful . 
There must be findings and judgment for the plaintiff , and it is so ordered . 
In spite of himself , Magnus paled . 
Harran shut his teeth with an oath . 
Their exaltation of the previous moment collapsed like a pyramid of cards . 
The vision of the new movement of the wheat , the conquest of the East , the invasion of the Orient , seemed only the flimsiest mockery . 
With a brusque wrench , they were snatched back to reality . 
But abruptly , while the four men stood there , gazing into each other's faces , a vigorous hand clapping broke out . 
Then Mrs. Cedarquist raised her voice and cried I've won . 
At once the orchestra struck into a lively air . 
II Underneath the Long Trestle where Broderson Creek cut the line of the railroad and the Upper Road , the ground was low and covered with a second growth of grey green willows . 
Along the borders of the creek were occasional marshy spots , and now and then Hilma Tree came here to gather water cresses , which she made into salads . 
The place was picturesque , secluded , an oasis of green shade in all the limitless , flat monotony of the surrounding wheat lands . 
She had spent the afternoon with Minna Hooven , who , for the time being , was kept indoors because of a wrenched ankle . 
As Hilma descended into the gravel flats and thickets of willows underneath the trestle , she decided that she would gather some cresses for her supper that night . 
For all the change that Annixter had noted in her upon the occasion of the barn dance , Hilma remained in many things a young child . 
She was never at loss for enjoyment , and could always amuse herself when left alone . 
She had nowhere to go . 
She would apply at a hut for shelter . 
Abruptly , the temptation to dabble her feet in the creek presented itself to her . 
Always she had liked to play in the water . 
At times , she felt the grit and grey sand on the soles of her feet , and the sensation had set her teeth on edge . 
What a delicious alternative the cold , clean water suggested , and how easy it would be to do as she pleased just then , if only she were a little girl . 
In the end , it was stupid to be grown up . 
Sitting upon the bank , one finger tucked into the heel of her shoe , Hilma hesitated . 
The blood throbbed in her temples . 
Since the famous evening of the barn dance , Annixter had spoken to her but twice . 
Hilma no longer looked after the ranch house these days . 
The thought of setting foot within Annixter's dining room and bed room terrified her , and in the end her mother had taken over that part of her work . 
But this last time was a veritable ordeal . 
No sooner had Annixter appeared than her heart leaped and quivered like that of the hound harried doe . 
That Annixter had been overwhelmed with business all through the winter was an inexpressible relief to Hilma . 
His affairs took him away from the ranch continually . 
He was absent sometimes for weeks , making trips to San Francisco , or to Sacramento , or to Bonneville . 
Perhaps he was forgetting her , overlooking her and while , at first , she told herself that she asked nothing better , the idea of it began to occupy her mind . 
She began to wonder if it was really so . 
The news of the sudden forward movement of the Railroad's forces , inaugurating the campaign , had flared white hot and blazing all over the country side . 
To Hilma's notion , Annixter's attitude was heroic beyond all expression . 
His courage in facing the Railroad , as he had faced Delaney in the barn , seemed to her the pitch of sublimity . 
She refused to see any auxiliaries aiding him in his fight . 
To her imagination , the great League , which all the ranchers were joining , was a mere form . 
Single handed , Annixter fronted the monster . 
But for him the corporation would gobble Quien Sabe , as a whale would a minnow . 
He was a hero who stood between them all and destruction . 
He was a protector of her family . 
The quivering of the trestle's supports set a tremble in the ground underfoot . 
He was looking at her , smiling as he rarely did , the firm line of his out thrust lower lip relaxed good humouredly . 
Hello , it's you , is it , Miss Hilma ? he exclaimed , getting down from the buckskin , and allowing her to drink . 
Hilma nodded , scrambling to her feet , dusting her skirt with nervous pats of both hands . 
Annixter sat down on a great rock close by and , the loop of the bridle over his arm , lit a cigar , and began to talk . 
Miss Hilma , he said abruptly , never you marry a ranchman . 
He's never out of trouble . 
Hilma gasped , her eyes widening till the full round of the pupil was disclosed . 
Instantly , a certain , inexplicable guiltiness overpowered her with incredible confusion . 
Her hands trembled as she pressed the bundle of cresses into a hard ball between her palms . 
He was disturbed and excited himself at this unexpected meeting . 
That dumb confession of Hilma's wide open eyes had been enough for him . 
Yet , somehow , he never had had a chance to act upon it . 
During the short period when he could be on his ranch Hilma had always managed to avoid him . 
Once , even , she had spent a month , about Christmas time , with her mother's father , who kept a hotel in San Francisco . 
Now , to day , however , he had her all to himself . 
He would put an end to the situation that troubled him , and vexed him , day after day , month after month . 
Beyond question , the moment had come for something definite , he could not say precisely what . 
Readjusting his cigar between his teeth , he resumed his speech . 
It suited his humour to take the girl into his confidence , following an instinct which warned him that this would bring about a certain closeness of their relations , a certain intimacy . 
Oh , no , indeed not . 
Well , what then ? Hilma made a little uncertain movement of ignorance . 
Well , the League agreed to day that if the test cases were lost in the Supreme Court you know we've appealed to the Supreme Court , at Washington we'd fight . 
Fight ? Yes , fight . 
Fight like like you and Mr. Delaney that time with oh , dear with guns ? I don't know , grumbled Annixter vaguely . 
What do YOU think ? Hilma's low pitched , almost husky voice trembled a little as she replied , Fighting with guns that's so terrible . 
Oh , those revolvers in the barn ! I can hear them yet . 
Every shot seemed like the explosion of tons of powder . 
You wouldn't like to have S. Behrman and the rest of 'em turn you out ? N no , she murmured . 
No , I shouldn't like that . 
There's mamma and Well , do you think for one second I'm going to let 'em ? cried Annixter , his teeth tightening on his cigar . 
You stay right where you are . 
I'll take care of you , right enough . 
Look here , he demanded abruptly , you've no use for that roaring lush , Delaney , have you ? I think he is a wicked man , she declared . 
I know the Railroad has pretended to sell him part of the ranch , and he lets Mr. S. Behrman and Mr. Ruggles just use him . 
I thought you wouldn't be keen on him . 
There was a long pause . 
The buckskin began blowing among the pebbles , nosing for grass , and Annixter shifted his cigar to the other corner of his mouth . 
Pretty place , he muttered , looking around him . 
Then he added Miss Hilma , see here , I want to have a kind of talk with you , if you don't mind . 
Straight , I have , and I guess you know it . 
You're about the only girl that I ever knew well , and I guess , he declared deliberately , you're about the only one I want to know . 
Well , I felt just that way about you . 
I would rather have had him shoot any other girl in the room than you yes , or in the whole State . 
Why , if anything should happen to you , Miss Hilma well , I wouldn't care to go on with anything . 
S. Behrman could jump Quien Sabe , and welcome . 
And Delaney could shoot me full of holes whenever he got good and ready . 
I wouldn't care a whoop about anything any more . 
You are the only girl for me in the whole world . 
I didn't think so at first . 
While you were away that Christmas time , why , I was as lonesome as oh , you don't know anything about it . 
I just scratched off the days on the calendar every night , one by one , till you got back . 
And it just comes to this , I want you with me all the time . 
I want you should have a home that's my home , too . 
I want to take care of you , and have you all for myself , you understand . 
What do you say ? Hilma , standing up before him , retied a knot in her handkerchief bundle with elaborate precaution , blinking at it through her tears . 
What do you say , Miss Hilma ? Annixter repeated . 
How about that ? What do you say ? Just above a whisper , Hilma murmured I I don't know . 
Don't know what ? Don't you think we could hit it off together ? I don't know . 
I know we could , Hilma . 
I don't mean to scare you . 
What are you crying for ? I don't know . 
Annixter got up , cast away his cigar , and dropping the buckskin's bridle , came and stood beside her , putting a hand on her shoulder . 
Hilma did not move , and he felt her trembling . 
She still plucked at the knot of the handkerchief . 
I can't do without you , little girl , Annixter continued , and I want you . 
I don't get much fun out of life ever . 
It , sure , isn't my nature , I guess . 
Everybody is trying to down me , and now I'm up against the Railroad . 
If I win out , I want somebody to be glad with me . 
If I don't I want somebody to be sorry for me , sorry with me , and that somebody is you . 
I am dog tired of going it alone . 
I want some one to back me up . 
I want to feel you alongside of me , to give me a touch of the shoulder now and then . 
I'm tired of fighting for THINGS land , property , money . 
I want to fight for some PERSON somebody beside myself . 
Like what , Hilma ? he insisted . 
Like like this ? she questioned . 
With a movement of infinite tenderness and affection she slid her arms around his neck , still crying a little . 
He bent his head and kissed her upon the nape of her neck , where the delicate amber tint melted into the thick , sweet smelling mass of her dark brown hair . 
She shivered a little , holding him closer , ashamed as yet to look up . 
Without speech , they stood there for a long minute , holding each other close . 
Then Hilma pulled away from him , mopping her tear stained cheeks with the little moist ball of her handkerchief . 
What do you say ? Is it a go ? demanded Annixter jovially . 
I thought I hated you all the time , she said , and the velvety huskiness of her voice never sounded so sweet to him . 
And I thought it was that crockery smashing goat of a lout of a cow puncher . 
Delaney ? The idea ! Oh , dear ! I think it must always have been you . 
Since when , Hilma ? he asked , putting his arm around her . 
Ah , but it is good to have you , my girl , he exclaimed , delighted beyond words that she permitted this freedom . 
Since when ? Tell us all about it . 
It was ever so long before I came to think of you to , well , to think about I mean to remember oh , you know what I mean . 
But when I did , oh , THEN ! Then what ? I don't know I haven't thought that way long enough to know . 
But you said you thought it must have been me always . 
I know but that was different oh , I'm all mixed up . 
I'm so nervous and trembly now . 
I don't know how it happened or why . 
Sometimes I think I didn't wish it , but now it's done , and I am glad and happy . 
But NOW if you weren't good to me oh , think of how it would be with me . 
Be good to me and be gentle and kind to me in LITTLE things , in everything , or you will break my heart . 
Annixter took her in his arms . 
No words that he had at his command seemed adequate . 
All he could say was That's all right , little girl . 
I'll take care of you . 
That's all right , that's all right . 
For a long time they sat there under the shade of the great trestle , their arms about each other , speaking only at intervals . 
The buckskin , finding no feed to her taste , took the trail stablewards , the bridle dragging . 
Rather than to take his arm from around Hilma's waist he would have lost his whole stable . 
At last , however , he bestirred himself and began to talk . 
He thought it time to formulate some plan of action . 
Well , now , Hilma , what are we going to do ? Do ? she repeated . 
Why , must we do anything ? Oh , isn't this enough ? There's better ahead , he went on . 
I want to fix you up somewhere where you can have a bit of a home all to yourself . 
Let's see Bonneville wouldn't do . 
There's always a lot of yaps about there that know us , and they would begin to cackle first off . 
We might go up next week and have a look around . 
I would find rooms you could take somewheres , and we would fix 'em up as lovely as how do you do . 
Oh , but why go away from Quien Sabe ? she protested . 
And , then , so soon , too . 
I wouldn't even want a single servant . 
Annixter heard and his face grew troubled . 
Hum , he said , I see . 
He gathered up a handful of pebbles and began snapping them carefully into the creek . 
Here was a phase of the affair he had not planned in the least . 
He had supposed all the time that Hilma took his meaning . 
His old suspicion that she was trying to get a hold on him stirred again for a moment . 
There was no good of such talk as that . 
Always these feemale girls seemed crazy to get married , bent on complicating the situation . 
Isn't that best ? said Hilma , glancing at him . 
I don't know , he muttered gloomily . 
Well , then , let's not . 
Let's come right back to Quien Sabe without going to Monterey . 
Anything that you want I want . 
I hadn't thought of it in just that way , he observed . 
In what way , then ? Can't we can't we wait about this marrying business ? That's just it , she said gayly . 
I said it was too soon . 
There would be so much to do between whiles . 
Why not say at the end of the summer ? Say what ? Our marriage , I mean . 
Why get married , then ? What's the good of all that fuss about it ? I don't go anything upon a minister puddling round in my affairs . 
What's the difference , anyhow ? We understand each other . 
Isn't that enough ? Pshaw , Hilma , I'M no marrying man . 
She looked at him a moment , bewildered , then slowly she took his meaning . 
She rose to her feet , her eyes wide , her face paling with terror . 
He did not look at her , but he could hear the catch in her throat . 
Oh ! she exclaimed , with a long , deep breath , and again Oh ! the back of her hand against her lips . 
It was a quick gasp of a veritable physical anguish . 
Annixter rose , looking at her . 
There was as yet no sense of insult in her mind , no outraged modesty . 
It was as though searching for wild flowers she had come suddenly upon a snake . 
Abruptly Annixter found himself alone . 
He had no sight of Hilma again that evening , and the next morning he was up early and did not breakfast at the ranch house . 
Business of the League called him to Bonneville to confer with Magnus and the firm of lawyers retained by the League to fight the land grabbing cases . 
An appeal was to be taken to the Supreme Court at Washington , and it was to be settled that day which of the cases involved should be considered as test cases . 
The conference was long and complicated , the business transacted of the utmost moment , and it was not until two o'clock that Annixter found himself at liberty . 
Dyke was there even at a distance they could hear the reverberation of his deep toned voice , uplifted in wrath and furious expostulation . 
Magnus and Annixter joined the group wondering , and all at once fell full upon the first scene of a drama . 
That same morning Dyke's mother had awakened him according to his instructions at daybreak . 
He would have a busy day . 
Hello , hello , he said , as his mother pulled his ear to arouse him morning , mamma . 
It's time , she said , after five already . 
Your breakfast is on the stove . 
He took her hand and kissed it with great affection . 
He loved his mother devotedly , quite as much as he did the little tad . 
Dyke , himself , was a big hearted , jovial man who spread an atmosphere of good humour wherever he went . 
In the evenings he played with Sidney like a big boy , an older brother , lying on the bed , or the sofa , taking her in his arms . 
Between them they had invented a great game . 
At this point Mrs. Dyke was called in , both father and daughter , children both , crying out that she was to come in and look , look . 
She arrived out of breath from the kitchen , the potato masher in her hand . 
Such children , she murmured , shaking her head at them , amused for all that , tucking the potato masher under her arm and clapping her hands . 
Gasping , his eyes shut , he pretended to be in the extreme of dissolution perhaps he was dying . 
He winked all to himself and went out again , closing the door with exaggerated carefulness . 
The morning was fine , the sun just coming up . 
He was in great spirits , looking about him over the brown fields , ruddy with the dawn . 
As he proceeded , the great farm horses jogging forward , placid , deliberate , the country side waked to another day . 
Crossing the irrigating ditch further on , he met a gang of Portuguese , with picks and shovels over their shoulders , just going to work . 
Hooven , already abroad , shouted him a Goot mornun from behind the fence of Los Muertos . 
Without knowing exactly why , Dyke received the impression that the young man had not been in bed all of that night . 
As the two approached each other , Dyke eyed the young fellow . 
He was distrustful of Vanamee , having the country bred suspicion of any person he could not understand . 
Vanamee was , beyond doubt , no part of the life of ranch and country town . 
He was an alien , a vagabond , a strange fellow who came and went in mysterious fashion , making no friends , keeping to himself . 
Dyke was right in his suspicion . 
Vanamee's bed had not been disturbed for three nights . 
On the Monday of that week he had passed the entire night in the garden of the Mission , overlooking the Seed ranch , in the little valley . 
The fact of the matter was that the old restlessness had once more seized upon Vanamee . 
Something began tugging at him the spur of some unseen rider touched his flank . 
The instinct of the wanderer woke and moved . 
For some time now he had been a part of the Los Muertos staff . 
On Quien Sabe , as on the other ranches , the slack season was at hand . 
While waiting for the wheat to come up no one was doing much of anything . 
Vanamee had come over to Los Muertos and spent most of his days on horseback , riding the range , rounding up and watching the cattle in the fourth division of the ranch . 
But if the vagabond instinct now roused itself in the strange fellow's nature , a counter influence had also set in . 
As the days went by , he became more reticent than ever . 
Presley often came to find him on the stock range , a lonely figure in the great wilderness of bare , green hillsides , but Vanamee no longer took him into his confidence . 
Father Sarria alone heard his strange stories . 
Dyke drove on toward Bonneville , thinking over the whole matter . 
No doubt , the fellow's wits were turned . 
That was the long and short of it . 
The ex engineer reached the Post Office in Bonneville towards eleven o'clock , but he did not at once present his notice of the arrival of his consignment at Ruggles's office . 
It entertained him to indulge in an hour's lounging about the streets . 
It was seldom he got into town , and when he did he permitted himself the luxury of enjoying his evident popularity . 
He met friends everywhere , in the Post Office , in the drug store , in the barber shop and around the court house . 
With each one he held a moment's conversation almost invariably this ended in the same way Come on 'n have a drink . 
Well , I don't care if I do . 
And the friends proceeded to the Yosemite bar , pledging each other with punctilious ceremony . 
Dyke , however , was a strictly temperate man . 
His life on the engine had trained him well . 
Alcohol he never touched , drinking instead ginger ale , sarsaparilla and iron soft drinks . 
Think I'll have to take it with me . 
How's Sidney getting along ? the other asked , while wrapping up the package . 
Dyke's enthusiasm had made of his little girl a celebrity throughout Bonneville . 
The ex engineer promptly became voluble , assertive , doggedly emphatic . 
Smartest little tad in all Tulare County , and more fun ! A regular whole show in herself . 
And the hops ? inquired the other . 
Bully , declared Dyke , with the good natured man's readiness to talk of his private affairs to any one who would listen . 
I'm dead sure of a bonanza crop by now . 
The rain came JUST right . 
I actually don't know as I can store the crop in those barns I built , it's going to be so big . 
That foreman of mine was a daisy . 
Jim , I'm going to make money in that deal . 
I KNEW there was boodle in hops . 
You know the crop is contracted for already . 
Sure , the foreman managed that . 
Chap in San Francisco will take it all and at the advanced price . 
I wanted to hang on , to see if it wouldn't go to six cents , but the foreman said , 'No , that's good enough . 
Ain't it bully , hey ? Then what'll you do ? Well , I don't know . 
Catch on ? I suppose you'll stay right by hops now ? Right you are , m'son . 
I know a good thing when I see it . 
There's plenty others going into hops next season . 
I set 'em the example . 
Wouldn't be surprised if it came to be a regular industry hereabouts . 
I'm planning ahead for next year already . 
I'm going to make MONEY , Jim . 
He emerged once more into the street and went up the block leisurely , planting his feet squarely . 
He fancied that he could feel he was considered of more importance nowadays . 
He was no longer a subordinate , an employee . 
He was his own man , a proprietor , an owner of land , furthering a successful enterprise . 
No one had helped him he had followed no one's lead . 
He had struck out unaided for himself , and his success was due solely to his own intelligence , industry , and foresight . 
He squared his great shoulders till the blue gingham of his jumper all but cracked . 
Of late , his great blond beard had grown and the work in the sun had made his face very red . 
Under the visor of his cap relic of his engineering days his blue eyes twinkled with vast good nature . 
He felt that he made a fine figure as he went by a group of young girls in lawns and muslins and garden hats on their way to the Post Office . 
He wondered if they looked after him , wondered if they had heard that he was in a fair way to become a rich man . 
But the chronometer in the window of the jewelry store warned him that time was passing . 
The figure was that of a middle aged man , fat , with a great stomach , which he stroked from time to time . 
As he turned about , addressing a remark to the clerk , Dyke recognised S. Behrman . 
The banker , railroad agent , and political manipulator seemed to the ex engineer's eyes to be more gross than ever . 
His great stomach , covered with a light brown linen vest , stamped with innumerable interlocked horseshoes , protruded far in advance , enormous , aggressive . 
Dyke looked at him with attention . 
There was the enemy , the representative of the Trust with which Derrick's League was locking horns . 
The great struggle had begun to invest the combatants with interest . 
Daily , almost hourly , Dyke was in touch with the ranchers , the wheat growers . 
He heard their denunciations , their growls of exasperation and defiance . 
The League was clamorous , ubiquitous , its objects known to every urchin on the streets , but the Trust was silent , its ways inscrutable , the public saw only results . 
It worked on in the dark , calm , disciplined , irresistible . 
Abruptly Dyke received the impression of the multitudinous ramifications of the colossus . 
I suppose , he added , you'll be able to give 'em to me . 
There'll be a big wheat crop to move this year and I don't want to be caught in any car famine . 
Oh , you'll get your cars , murmured the other . 
I'll be the means of bringing business your way , Dyke went on I've done so well with my hops that there are a lot of others going into the business next season . 
A cent and a half ! Say FOUR cents and a half and maybe I'll talk business with you . 
Four cents and a half , returned Dyke , I don't see it . 
Why , the regular rate is only two cents . 
No , it isn't , answered the clerk , looking him gravely in the eye , it's five cents . 
Well , there's where you are wrong , m'son , Dyke retorted , genially . 
You'll find the freight on hops from Bonneville to 'Frisco is two cents a pound for car load lots . 
You told me that yourself last fall . 
That was last fall , observed the clerk . 
Dyke shot a glance of suspicion at the other . 
Then , reassured , he remarked You look it up . 
S. Behrman came forward and shook hands politely with the ex engineer . 
Anything I can do for you , Mr. Dyke ? Dyke explained . 
When he had done speaking , the clerk turned to S. Behrman and observed , respectfully Our regular rate on hops is five cents . 
Yes , answered S. Behrman , pausing to reflect yes , Mr. Dyke , that's right five cents . 
The clerk brought forward a folder of yellow paper and handed it to Dyke . 
It was inscribed at the top Tariff Schedule No. , and underneath these words , in brackets , was a smaller inscription , SUPERSEDES NO . 
See for yourself , said S. Behrman . 
He indicated an item under the head of Miscellany . 
The following rates for carriage of hops in car load lots , read Dyke , take effect June , and will remain in force until superseded by a later tariff . 
Those quoted beyond Stockton are subject to changes in traffic arrangements with carriers by water from that point . 
In the list that was printed below , Dyke saw that the rate for hops between Bonneville or Guadalajara and San Francisco was five cents . 
For a moment Dyke was confused . 
Then swiftly the matter became clear in his mind . 
The Railroad had raised the freight on hops from two cents to five . 
All his calculations as to a profit on his little investment he had based on a freight rate of two cents a pound . 
He was under contract to deliver his crop . 
He could not draw back . 
The new rate ate up every cent of his gains . 
Why , what do you mean ? he burst out . 
You promised me a rate of two cents and I went ahead with my business with that understanding . 
What do you mean ? S. Behrman and the clerk watched him from the other side of the counter . 
The rate is five cents , declared the clerk doggedly . 
Well , that ruins me , shouted Dyke . 
Do you understand ? I won't make fifty cents . 
MAKE ! Why , I will OWE , I'll be be That ruins me , do you understand ? The other , raised a shoulder . 
We don't force you to ship . 
You can do as you like . 
The rate is five cents . 
Well but damn you , I'm under contract to deliver . 
What am I going to do ? Why , you told me you promised me a two cent rate . 
I don't remember it , said the clerk . 
I don't know anything about that . 
But I know this I know that hops have gone up . 
I know the German crop was a failure and that the crop in New York wasn't worth the hauling . 
Hops have gone up to nearly a dollar . 
We're not doing business for our health . 
My orders are to raise your rate to five cents , and I think you are getting off easy . 
Dyke stared in blank astonishment . 
For the moment , the audacity of the affair was what most appealed to him . 
He forgot its personal application . 
Good Lord , he murmured , good Lord ! What will you people do next ? Look here . 
What's your basis of applying freight rates , anyhow ? he suddenly vociferated with furious sarcasm . 
What's your rule ? What are you guided by ? But at the words , S. Behrman , who had kept silent during the heat of the discussion , leaned abruptly forward . 
For the only time in his knowledge , Dyke saw his face inflamed with anger and with the enmity and contempt of all this farming element with whom he was contending . 
Yes , what's your rule ? What's your basis ? demanded Dyke , turning swiftly to him . 
S. Behrman emphasised each word of his reply with a tap of one forefinger on the counter before him All the traffic will bear . 
The ex engineer stepped back a pace , his fingers on the ledge of the counter , to steady himself . 
He felt himself grow pale , his heart became a mere leaden weight in his chest , inert , refusing to beat . 
In a second the whole affair , in all its bearings , went speeding before the eye of his imagination like the rapid unrolling of a panorama . 
Every cent of his earnings was sunk in this hop business of his . 
More than that , he had borrowed money to carry it on , certain of success borrowed of S. Behrman , offering his crop and his little home as security . 
Once he failed to meet his obligations , S. Behrman would foreclose . 
Not only would the Railroad devour every morsel of his profits , but also it would take from him his home at a blow he would be left penniless and without a home . 
What would then become of his mother and what would become of the little tad ? She , whom he had been planning to educate like a veritable lady . 
For all that year he had talked of his ambition for his little daughter to every one he met . 
All Bonneville knew of it . 
What a mark for gibes he had made of himself . 
He should have known better than that . 
The blow merely crushed , staggered , confused . 
He stepped aside to give place to a coatless man in a pink shirt , who entered , carrying in his hands an automatic door closing apparatus . 
Where does this go ? inquired the man . 
Dyke sat down for a moment on a seat that had been removed from a worn out railway car to do duty in Ruggles's office . 
On the back of a yellow envelope he made some vague figures with a stump of blue pencil , multiplying , subtracting , perplexing himself with many errors . 
S. Behrman , the clerk , and the man with the door closing apparatus involved themselves in a long argument , gazing intently at the top panel of the door . 
This sign would cost fifteen cents extra . 
But you didn't say anything about this when the thing was ordered , declared S. Behrman . 
No , I won't pay it , my friend . 
You needn't think , observed the clerk , that just because you are dealing with the Railroad you are going to work us . 
Genslinger came in , accompanied by Delaney . 
S. Behrman and the clerk , abruptly dismissing the man with the door closing machine , put themselves behind the counter and engaged in conversation with these two . 
The buster had a string of horses he was shipping southward . 
No doubt he had come to make arrangements with the Railroad in the matter of stock cars . 
The conference of the four men was amicable in the extreme . 
Dyke , studying the figures on the back of the envelope , came forward again . 
Absorbed only in his own distress , he ignored the editor and the cow puncher . 
Say , he hazarded , how about this ? I make out We've told you what our rates are , Mr. Dyke , exclaimed the clerk angrily . 
That's all the arrangement we will make . 
Take it or leave it . 
He turned again to Genslinger , giving the ex engineer his back . 
Dyke moved away and stood for a moment in the centre of the room , staring at the figures on the envelope . 
I don't see , he muttered , just what I'm going to do . 
No , I don't see what I'm going to do at all . 
Ruggles came in , bringing with him two other men in whom Dyke recognised dummy buyers of the Los Muertos and Osterman ranchos . 
They brushed by him , jostling his elbow , and as he went out of the door he heard them exchange jovial greetings with Delaney , Genslinger , and S. Behrman . 
Dyke went down the stairs to the street and proceeded onward aimlessly in the direction of the Yosemite House , fingering the yellow envelope and looking vacantly at the sidewalk . 
There was a stoop to his massive shoulders . 
His great arms dangled loosely at his sides , the palms of his hands open . 
As he went along , a certain feeling of shame touched him . 
Surely his predicament must be apparent to every passer by . 
No doubt , every one recognised the unsuccessful man in the very way he slouched along . 
Then brusquely his tardy rage flamed up . 
By God , NO , it was not his fault he had made no mistake . 
His energy , industry , and foresight had been sound . 
For a moment he thought of the courts , but instantly laughed at the idea . 
His fists gripped tight together , his teeth clenched . 
A group formed about him . 
In his immediate vicinity business for the instant was suspended . 
One after another of his friends added themselves to it . 
Magnus Derrick joined it , and Annixter . 
Again and again , Dyke recounted the matter , beginning with the time when he was discharged from the same corporation's service for refusing to accept an unfair wage . 
From all points of view , the story was discussed by those who listened to him , now in the heat of excitement , now calmly , judicially . 
One verdict , however , prevailed . 
It was voiced by Annixter You're stuck . 
You can roar till you're black in the face , but you can't buck against the Railroad . 
There's nothing to be done . 
You can shoot the ruffian , you can shoot S. Behrman , clamoured one of the group . 
Yes , sir by the Lord , you can shoot him . 
Poor fool , commented Annixter , turning away . 
No , there was nothing to be done not one thing . 
Dyke , at last alone and driving his team out of the town , turned the business confusedly over in his mind from end to end . 
Advice , suggestion , even offers of financial aid had been showered upon him from all directions . 
Friends were not wanting who heatedly presented to his consideration all manner of ingenious plans , wonderful devices . 
By degrees , as his wagon carried him farther out into the country , and open empty fields , his anger lapsed , and the numbness of bewilderment returned . 
He could not look one hour ahead into the future could formulate no plans even for the next day . 
He did not know what to do . 
What did he care ? What was the use of going on ? He was stuck . 
The team he was driving had once belonged to the Los Muertos stables and unguided as the horses were , they took the county road towards Derrick's ranch house . 
Dyke , all abroad , was unaware of the fact till , drawn by the smell of water , the horses halted by the trough in front of Caraher's saloon . 
The ex engineer dismounted , looking about him , realising where he was . 
So much the worse it did not matter . 
Now that he had come so far it was as short to go home by this route as to return on his tracks . 
Slowly he unchecked the horses and stood at their heads , watching them drink . 
I don't see , he muttered , just what I am going to do . 
Caraher appeared at the door of his place , his red face , red beard , and flaming cravat standing sharply out from the shadow of the doorway . 
He called a welcome to Dyke . 
Dyke looked up , nodding his head listlessly . 
Hello , Caraher , he answered . 
Well , continued the saloonkeeper , coming forward a step , what's the news in town ? Dyke told him . 
Caraher's red face suddenly took on a darker colour . 
The red glint in his eyes shot from under his eyebrows . 
Furious , he vented a rolling explosion of oaths . 
And now it's your turn , he vociferated . 
They ain't after only the big wheat growers , the rich men . 
By God , they'll even pick the poor man's pocket . 
Oh , they'll get their bellies full some day . 
He raised his clenched fists in the air . 
So help me , God , he cried , when I think it all over I go crazy , I see red . 
Oh , if the people only knew their strength . 
Oh , if I could wake 'em up . 
There's not only Shelgrim , but there's others . 
All the magnates , all the butchers , all the blood suckers , by the thousands . 
Their day will come , by God , it will . 
By now , the ex engineer and the bar keeper had retired to the saloon back of the grocery to talk over the details of this new outrage . 
In the saloon , on the other side of the narrow partition , he overheard the conversation between Dyke and Caraher . 
He caught every word distinctly . 
Tell us all about it , Dyke , urged Caraher . 
For the fiftieth time Dyke told the story . 
Already it had crystallised into a certain form . 
He used the same phrases with each repetition , the same sentences , the same words . 
In his mind it became set . 
Caraher , sure now of winning a disciple , replenished his glass . 
Do you blame us now , he cried , us others , the Reds ? Ah , yes , it's all very well for your middle class to preach moderation . 
I could do it , too . 
You could do it , too , if your belly was fed , if your property was safe , if your wife had not been murdered if your children were not starving . 
Easy enough then to preach law abiding methods , legal redress , and all such rot . 
But how about US ? he vociferated . 
That talk is just what the Trust wants to hear . 
It ain't frightened of that . 
There's one thing only it does listen to , one thing it is frightened of the people with dynamite in their hands , six inches of plugged gaspipe . 
He filled another pony of whiskey and drank it in two gulps . 
Presley forgot his black lead . 
Through the open door he caught a glimpse of Dyke's back , broad , muscled , bowed down , the great shoulders stooping . 
The whole drama of the doubled freight rate leaped salient and distinct in the eye of his mind . 
And this was but one instance , an isolated case . 
Because he was near at hand he happened to see it . 
He went away without a word , his head bent , his hands clutched tightly on the cork grips of the handle bars of his bicycle . 
In his heart a blind demon of revolt raged tumultuous , shrieking blasphemies . 
At Los Muertos , Presley overtook Annixter . 
As he guided his wheel up the driveway to Derrick's ranch house , he saw the master of Quien Sabe and Harran in conversation on the steps of the porch . 
Magnus stood in the doorway , talking to his wife . 
He found her waiting there for him , but before going on , delayed a few moments to tell Harran of Dyke's affair . 
I wonder what he will do now ? observed Harran when his first outburst of indignation had subsided . 
That eats up every cent of Dyke's earnings , Harran went on . 
He has been ten years saving them . 
Oh , I told him to make sure of the Railroad when he first spoke to me about growing hops . 
I've just seen him , said Presley , as he joined the others . 
I only saw his back . 
He was drinking at a table and his back was towards me . 
But the man looked broken absolutely crushed . 
It is terrible , terrible . 
He was at Caraher's , was he ? demanded Annixter . 
Drinking , hey ? I think so . 
Yes , I saw a bottle . 
Drinking at Caraher's , exclaimed Annixter , rancorously I can see HIS finish . 
It seemed as if nothing more was to be said . 
They paused , looking thoughtfully on the ground . 
I see his finish , repeated Annixter . 
Exit Dyke , and score another tally for S. Behrman , Shelgrim and Co . 
He moved away impatiently , loosening the tie rope with which the buckskin was fastened . 
God for us all , he declared as he rode away , and the devil take the hindmost . 
Good bye , I'm going home . 
I still have one a little longer . 
It was late in the day , already his shadow was long upon the padded dust of the road in front of him . 
Annixter spurred the buck skin forward . 
He feared he might be late to his supper . 
He wondered if it would be brought to him by Hilma . 
Hilma ! The name struck across in his brain with a pleasant , glowing tremour . 
At last he was alone . 
He could put all other things behind him and occupy himself solely with her . 
In that glory of the day's end , in that chaos of sunshine , he saw her again . 
Unimaginative , crude , direct , his fancy , nevertheless , placed her before him , steeped in sunshine , saturated with glorious light , brilliant , radiant , alluring . 
The buckskin's hoofs clattered upon the gravelly flats of Broderson's Creek underneath the Long Trestle . 
Annixter's mind went back to the scene of the previous evening , when he had come upon her at this place . 
He set his teeth with anger and disappointment . 
Did she think she was going to be mistress of Quien Sabe ? Ah , that was it . 
She was after his property , was for marrying him because of his money . 
His unconquerable suspicion of the woman , his innate distrust of the feminine element would not be done away with . 
What fathomless duplicity was hers , that she could appear so innocent . 
It was almost unbelievable in fact , was it believable ? For the first time doubt assailed him . 
Suppose Hilma was indeed all that she appeared to be . 
Suppose she had been sincere . 
But he caught himself up . 
Was he to be fooled by a feemale girl at this late date ? He , Buck Annixter , crafty , hard headed , a man of affairs ? Not much . 
Whatever transpired he would remain the master . 
He reached Quien Sabe in this frame of mind . 
But at this hour , Annixter , for all his resolutions , could no longer control his thoughts . 
It was growing dark , but covertly he glanced here and there out of the corners of his eyes to see if she was anywhere about . 
Annixter how , he could not tell had become possessed of the idea that Hilma would not inform her parents of what had passed between them the previous evening under the Long Trestle . 
He had no idea that matters were at an end between himself and the young woman . 
He must apologise , he saw that clearly enough , must eat crow , as he told himself . 
Well , he would eat crow . 
He was not afraid of her any longer , now that she had made her confession to him . 
He would see her as soon as possible and get this business straightened out , and begin again from a new starting point . 
What he wanted with Hilma , Annixter did not define clearly in his mind . 
At one time he had known perfectly well what he wanted . 
Now , the goal of his desires had become vague . 
He could not say exactly what it was . 
The Chinese cook served his supper in silence . 
Annixter ate and drank and lighted a cigar , and after his meal sat on the porch of his house , smoking and enjoying the twilight . 
The evening was beautiful , warm , the sky one powder of stars . 
From the direction of the stables he heard one of the Portuguese hands picking a guitar . 
But he wanted to see Hilma . 
The idea of going to bed without at least a glimpse of her became distasteful to him . 
Annixter got up and descending from the porch began to walk aimlessly about between the ranch buildings , with eye and ear alert . 
Possibly he might meet her somewheres . 
The Trees' little house , toward which inevitably Annixter directed his steps , was dark . 
Had they all gone to bed so soon ? He made a wide circuit about it , listening , but heard no sound . 
The door of the dairy house stood ajar . 
He pushed it open , and stepped into the odorous darkness of its interior . 
The pans and deep cans of polished metal glowed faintly from the corners and from the walls . 
The smell of new cheese was pungent in his nostrils . 
As he waited there , his foreman came out of the men's bunk house , on the other side of the kitchens , and crossed over toward the barn . 
Hello , Billy , muttered Annixter as he passed . 
Oh , good evening , Mr. Annixter , said the other , pausing in front of him . 
I didn't know you were back . 
By the way , he added , speaking as though the matter was already known to Annixter , I see old man Tree and his family have left us . 
Are they going to be gone long ? Have they left for good ? What's that ? Annixter exclaimed . 
When did they go ? Did all of them go , all three ? Why , I thought you knew . 
Sure , they all left on the afternoon train for San Francisco . 
Cleared out in a hurry took all their trunks . 
Yes , all three went the young lady , too . 
They gave me notice early this morning . 
They ain't ought to have done that . 
I don't know who I'm to get to run the dairy on such short notice . 
Do you know any one , Mr. Annixter ? Well , why in hell did you let them go ? vociferated Annixter . 
Why didn't you keep them here till I got back ? Why didn't you find out if they were going for good ? I can't be everywhere . 
He tramped out from the group of ranch buildings holding on over the open reach of his ranch , his teeth set , his heels digging furiously into the ground . 
He walked on swiftly , muttering to himself from time to time . 
Gone , by the Lord . 
Gone , by the Lord . 
By the Lord Harry , she's cleared out . 
As yet his head was empty of all thought . 
He could not steady his wits to consider this new turn of affairs . 
He did not even try . 
Gone , by the Lord , he exclaimed . 
By the Lord , she's cleared out . 
There he sat down , and leaning forward , rested his elbows on his knees , and looked out vaguely into the night , his thoughts swiftly readjusting themselves . 
The silence of the night , the infinite repose of the flat , bare earth two immensities widened around and above him like illimitable seas . 
A grey half light , mysterious , grave , flooded downward from the stars . 
Now , there could be no longer any doubt now it was Hilma or nothing . 
Once out of his reach , once lost to him , and the recollection of her assailed him with unconquerable vehemence . 
Much as she had occupied his mind , he had never realised till now how vast had been the place she had filled in his life . 
He had told her as much , but even then he did not believe it . 
Suddenly , a bitter rage against himself overwhelmed him as he thought of the hurt he had given her the previous evening . 
He should have managed differently . 
How , he did not know , but the sense of the outrage he had put upon her abruptly recoiled against him with cruel force . 
Now , he was sorry for it , infinitely sorry , passionately sorry . 
He had brought the tears to her eyes . 
He had so flagrantly insulted her that she could no longer bear to breathe the same air with him . 
She had told her parents all . 
She had left Quien Sabe had left him for good , at the very moment when he believed he had won her . 
Brute , beast that he was , he had driven her away . 
An hour went by then two , then four , then six . 
Annixter still sat in his place , groping and battling in a confusion of spirit , the like of which he had never felt before . 
He did not know what was the matter with him . 
He could not find his way out of the dark and out of the turmoil that wheeled around him . 
He had had no experience with women . 
There was no precedent to guide him . 
How was he to get out of this ? What was the clew that would set everything straight again ? That he would give Hilma up , never once entered his head . 
She had given herself to him . 
It was true , he might have Hilma , even now , if he was willing to marry her . 
He had never faced the question of his marriage . 
He had kept it at an immense distance from him . 
It had never been a part of his order of things . 
He was not a marrying man . 
But Hilma was an ever present reality , as near to him as his right hand . 
Marriage was a formless , far distant abstraction . 
Hilma a tangible , imminent fact . 
Slowly , by imperceptible degrees , the imagination , unused , unwilling machine , began to work . 
The brain's activity lapsed proportionately . 
He began to think less , and feel more . 
But as the intellect moved slower , its functions growing numb , the idea of self dwindled . 
Annixter no longer considered himself no longer considered the notion of marriage from the point of view of his own comfort , his own wishes , his own advantage . 
He realised that in his newfound desire to make her happy , he was sincere . 
There was something in that idea , after all . 
To make some one happy how about that now ? It was worth thinking of . 
Far away , low down in the east , a dim belt , a grey light began to whiten over the horizon . 
The tower of the Mission stood black against it . 
The baffling obscurity of the night was passing . 
Hidden things were coming into view . 
Annixter , his eyes half closed , his chin upon his fist , allowed his imagination full play . 
He had gone about the whole affair wrongly . 
He had been mistaken from the very first . 
She was infinitely above him . 
He did not want he should not desire to be the master . 
It was she , his servant , poor , simple , lowly even , who should condescend to him . 
Abruptly there was presented to his mind's eye a picture of the years to come , if he now should follow his best , his highest , his most unselfish impulse . 
Out of the dark furrows of his soul , up from the deep rugged recesses of his being , something rose , expanding . 
He opened his arms wide . 
An immense happiness overpowered him . 
Actual tears came to his eyes . 
Without knowing why , he was not ashamed of it . 
The little seed , long since planted , gathering strength quietly , had at last germinated . 
Then as the realisation of this hardened into certainty , in the growing light of the new day that had just dawned for him , Annixter uttered a cry . 
Now at length , he knew the meaning of it all . 
Why I I , I LOVE her , he cried . 
Never until then had it occurred to him . 
Never until then , in all his thoughts of Hilma , had that great word passed his lips . 
By now it was almost day . 
All about him Annixter saw the land inundated with light . 
But there was a change . 
In his perturbation the change seemed to him , at first , elusive , almost fanciful , unreal . 
But now as the light spread , he looked again at the gigantic scroll of ranch lands unrolled before him from edge to edge of the horizon . 
The change was not fanciful . 
The earth was no longer bare . 
The land was no longer barren , no longer empty , no longer dull brown . 
All at once Annixter shouted aloud . 
The wheat had come up . 
It was there before him , around him , everywhere , illimitable , immeasurable . 
The winter brownness of the ground was overlaid with a little shimmer of green . 
The promise of the sowing was being fulfilled . 
The earth , the loyal mother , who never failed , who never disappointed , was keeping her faith again . 
Once more the strength of nations was renewed . 
Once more the force of the world was revivified . 
III Presley's room in the ranch house of Los Muertos was in the second story of the building . 
It was a corner room one of its windows facing the south , the other the east . 
Its appointments were of the simplest . 
In one angle was the small white painted iron bed , covered with a white counterpane . 
The walls were hung with a white paper figured with knots of pale green leaves , very gay and bright . 
There was a straw matting on the floor . 
By the east window stood the plainest of deal tables , innocent of any cloth or covering , such as might have been used in a kitchen . 
It was Presley's work table , and was invariably littered with papers , half finished manuscripts , drafts of poems , notebooks , pens , half smoked cigarettes , and the like . 
Near at hand , upon a shelf , were his books . 
Presley was immensely fond of this room . 
It amused and interested him to maintain its air of rigorous simplicity and freshness . 
He abhorred cluttered bric a brac and meaningless objets d'art . 
His writing had by this time undergone a complete change . 
The notes for his great Song of the West , the epic poem he once had hoped to write he had flung aside , together with all the abortive attempts at its beginning . 
Also he had torn up a great quantity of fugitive verses , preserving only a certain half finished poem , that he called The Toilers . 
This poem was a comment upon the social fabric , and had been inspired by the sight of a painting he had seen in Cedarquist's art gallery . 
He had written all but the last verse . 
His wrath was little short of even Caraher's . 
He too saw red a mighty spirit of revolt heaved tumultuous within him . 
It did not seem possible that this outrage could go on much longer . 
The oppression was incredible the plain story of it set down in truthful statement of fact would not be believed by the outside world . 
As his prose grew more exalted , it passed easily into the domain of poetry . 
Soon the cadence of his paragraphs settled to an ordered beat and rhythm , and in the end Presley had thrust aside his journal and was once more writing verse . 
Presley laid down his pen and leaned back in his chair , with the certainty that for one moment he had touched untrod heights . 
His hands were cold , his head on fire , his heart leaping tumultuous in his breast . 
Now at last , he had achieved . 
He saw why he had never grasped the inspiration for his vast , vague , IMPERSONAL Song of the West . 
At the time when he sought for it , his convictions had not been aroused he had not then cared for the People . 
His sympathies had not been touched . 
Small wonder that he had missed it . 
Now he was of the People he had been stirred to his lowest depths . 
His earnestness was almost a frenzy . 
He BELIEVED , and so to him all things were possible at once . 
Then the artist in him reasserted itself . 
He became more interested in his poem , as such , than in the cause that had inspired it . 
He went over it again , retouching it carefully , changing a word here and there , and improving its rhythm . 
For the moment , he forgot the People , forgot his rage , his agitation of the previous hour , he remembered only that he had written a great poem . 
By now , Presley could not tell whether what he had written was true poetry or doggerel . 
He distrusted profoundly his own judgment . 
He must have the opinion of some one else , some one competent to judge . 
He could not wait to morrow would not do . 
He must know to a certainty before he could rest that night . 
He found Phelps there , washing down the buckboard . 
Do you know where Vanamee is to day ? he asked the latter . 
Phelps put his chin in the air . 
Ask me something easy , he responded . 
He might be at Guadalajara , or he might be up at Osterman's , or he might be a hundred miles away from either place . 
I know where he ought to be , Mr. Presley , but that ain't saying where the crazy gesabe is . 
He OUGHT to be range riding over east of Four , at the head waters of Mission Creek . 
I'll try for him there , at all events , answered Presley . 
If you see Harran when he comes in , tell him I may not be back in time for supper . 
Presley found the pony in the corral , cinched the saddle upon him , and went off over the Lower Road , going eastward at a brisk canter . 
He told himself that he hoped she would , and that speedily . 
There was no lack of comment as to Minna Hooven about the ranches . 
She was very pretty the men made fools of themselves over her . 
Presley hoped they would not end by making a fool of her . 
This higher ground was the advance guard of the Sierra foothills , and served as the stock range for Los Muertos . 
The hills were huge rolling hummocks of bare ground , covered only by wild oats . 
At long intervals , were isolated live oaks . 
In the canyons and arroyos , the chaparral and manzanita grew in dark olive green thickets . 
The ground was honey combed with gopher holes , and the gophers themselves were everywhere . 
Occasionally a jack rabbit bounded across the open , from one growth of chaparral to another , taking long leaps , his ears erect . 
Presley found the one time shepherd by a water hole , in a far distant corner of the range . 
He had made his simple camp for the night . 
His blue grey army blanket lay spread under a live oak , his horse grazed near at hand . 
He himself sat on his heels before a little fire of dead manzanita roots , cooking his coffee and bacon . 
Never had Presley conceived so keen an impression of loneliness as his crouching figure presented . 
The bald , bare landscape widened about him to infinity . 
Vanamee was a spot in it all , a tiny dot , a single atom of human organisation , floating endlessly on the ocean of an illimitable nature . 
The two friends ate together , and Vanamee , having snared a brace of quails , dressed and then roasted them on a sharpened stick . 
After eating , they drank great refreshing draughts from the water hole . 
Then , at length , Presley having lit his cigarette , and Vanamee his pipe , the former said Vanamee , I have been writing again . 
Vanamee turned his lean ascetic face toward him , his black eyes fixed attentively . 
I know , he said , your journal . 
No , this is a poem . 
You remember , I told you about it once . 
'The Toilers , I called it . 
Oh , verse ! Well , I am glad you have gone back to it . 
It is your natural vehicle . 
You remember the poem ? asked Presley . 
Yes , I remember it . 
There was better promise in it than anything you ever wrote . 
Now , I suppose , you have finished it . 
Without reply , Presley brought it from out the breast pocket of his shooting coat . 
The stillness of the vast , bare hills was profound . 
The sun was setting in a cloudless brazier of red light a golden dust pervaded all the landscape . 
Presley read his poem aloud . 
When he had finished , his friend looked at him . 
What have you been doing lately ? he demanded . 
Presley , wondering , told of his various comings and goings . 
I don't mean that , returned the other . 
Something has happened to you , something has aroused you . 
I am right , am I not ? Yes , I thought so . 
In this poem of yours , you have not been trying to make a sounding piece of literature . 
You wrote it under tremendous stress . 
Its very imperfections show that . 
It is better than a mere rhyme . 
It is an Utterance a Message . 
You have come back to the primal heart of things , and you have seen clearly . 
Yes , it is a great poem . 
Thank you , exclaimed Presley fervidly . 
I had begun to mistrust myself . 
Now , observed Vanamee , I presume you will rush it into print . 
To have formulated a great thought , simply to have accomplished , is not enough . 
I think I am sincere , objected Presley . 
If it is good it will do good to others . 
You said yourself it was a Message . 
If it has any value , I do not think it would be right to keep it back from even a very small and most indifferent public . 
Don't publish it in the magazines at all events , Vanamee answered . 
Your inspiration has come FROM the People . 
Then let it go straight TO the People not the literary readers of the monthly periodicals , the rich , who would only be indirectly interested . 
If you must publish it , let it be in the daily press . 
I know what you will say . 
It MUST BE common it must be vulgarised . 
You must not stand upon your dignity with the People , if you are to reach them . 
That is true , I suppose , Presley admitted , but I can't get rid of the idea that it would be throwing my poem away . 
The great magazine gives me such a background gives me such weight . 
Gives YOU such weight , gives you such background . 
Is it YOURSELF you think of ? You helper of the helpless . 
Is that your sincerity ? You must sink yourself must forget yourself and your own desire of fame , of admitted success . 
It is your POEM , your MESSAGE , that must prevail , not YOU , who wrote it . 
Presley , there are many like you . 
The social reformer writes a book on the iniquity of the possession of land , and out of the proceeds , buys a corner lot . 
The economist who laments the hardships of the poor , allows himself to grow rich upon the sale of his book . 
But Presley would hear no further . 
They talked on for about an hour , while the evening wore away . 
Presley very soon noticed that Vanamee was again preoccupied . 
More than ever of late , his silence , his brooding had increased . 
By and by he rose abruptly , turning his head to the north , in the direction of the Mission church of San Juan . 
I think , he said to Presley , that I must be going . 
Going ? Where to at this time of night ? Off there . 
Vanamee made an uncertain gesture toward the north . 
Good bye , and without another word he disappeared in the grey of the twilight . 
Presley was left alone wondering . 
He found his horse , and , tightening the girths , mounted and rode home under the sheen of the stars , thoughtful , his head bowed . 
Before he went to bed that night he sent The Toilers to the Sunday Editor of a daily newspaper in San Francisco . 
His lean , swarthy face , with its hollow cheeks , fine , black , pointed beard , and sad eyes , was set to the northward . 
As was his custom , he was bareheaded , and the rapidity of his stride made a breeze in his long , black hair . 
He knew where he was going . 
He knew what he must live through that night . 
Again , the deathless grief that never slept leaped out of the shadows , and fastened upon his shoulders . 
It was scourging him back to that scene of a vanished happiness , a dead romance , a perished idyl , the Mission garden in the shade of the venerable pear trees . 
But , besides this , other influences tugged at his heart . 
There was a mystery in the garden . 
In that spot the night was not always empty , the darkness not always silent . 
Something far off stirred and listened to his cry , at times drawing nearer to him . 
There were times when he could not resist . 
Of themselves , his footsteps turned in that direction . 
It was almost as if he himself had been called . 
Guadalajara was silent , dark . 
Not even in Solotari's was there a light . 
Only the inevitable guitar hummed from an unseen 'dobe . 
On either side of him lay the brown earth , silently nurturing the implanted seed . 
Two days before it had rained copiously , and the soil , still moist , disengaged a pungent aroma of fecundity . 
Vanamee , following the road , passed through the collection of buildings of Annixter's home ranch . 
At intervals , the aer motor on the artesian well creaked audibly , as it turned in a languid breeze from the northeast . 
A cat , hunting field mice , crept from the shadow of the gigantic barn and paused uncertainly in the open , the tip of her tail twitching . 
From within the barn itself came the sound of the friction of a heavy body and a stir of hoofs , as one of the dozing cows lay down with a long breath . 
Vanamee left the ranch house behind him and proceeded on his way . 
Beyond him , to the right of the road , he could make out the higher ground in the Mission enclosure , and the watching tower of the Mission itself . 
Then abruptly he paused , his head in the air , eye and ear alert . 
To that strange sixth sense of his , responsive as the leaves of the sensitive plant , had suddenly come the impression of a human being near at hand . 
He had neither seen nor heard , but for all that he stopped an instant in his tracks then , the sensation confirmed , went on again with slow steps , advancing warily . 
At last , his swiftly roving eyes lighted upon an object , just darker than the grey brown of the night ridden land . 
It was at some distance from the roadside . 
Vanamee approached it cautiously , leaving the road , treading carefully upon the moist clods of earth underfoot . 
Twenty paces distant , he halted . 
Annixter was there , seated upon a round , white rock , his back towards him . 
He was leaning forward , his elbows on his knees , his chin in his hands . 
Silent , motionless , he gazed out upon the flat , sombre land . 
It was the night wherein the master of Quien Sabe wrought out his salvation , struggling with Self from dusk to dawn . 
At the moment when Vanamee came upon him , the turmoil within him had only begun . 
The heart of the man had not yet wakened . 
For a moment , the life circles of these two men , of so widely differing characters , touched each other , there in the silence of the night under the stars . 
Then speedily he forgot all else . 
The material world drew off from him . 
Reality dwindled to a point and vanished like the vanishing of a star at moonrise . 
Earthly things dissolved and disappeared , as a strange , unnamed essence flowed in upon him . 
A new atmosphere for him pervaded his surroundings . 
He entered the world of the Vision , of the Legend , of the Miracle , where all things were possible . 
He stood at the gate of the Mission garden . 
Above him rose the ancient tower of the Mission church . 
Through the arches at its summit , where swung the Spanish queen's bells , he saw the slow burning stars . 
The silent bats , with flickering wings , threw their dancing shadows on the pallid surface of the venerable facade . 
Not the faintest chirring of a cricket broke the silence . 
Not even the minute scuffling of a lizard over the warm , worn pavement of the colonnade disturbed the infinite repose , the profound stillness . 
At one time , the doorway before which Vanamee now stood had been hermetically closed . 
But he , himself , had long since changed that . 
He was in the cloister garden . 
The stars were out , strewn thick and close in the deep blue of the sky , the milky way glowing like a silver veil . 
Ursa Major wheeled gigantic in the north . 
The great nebula in Orion was a whorl of shimmering star dust . 
Venus flamed a lambent disk of pale saffron , low over the horizon . 
The little garden revealed itself but dimly beneath the brooding light , only half emerging from the shadow . 
The polished surfaces of the leaves of the pear trees winked faintly back the reflected light as the trees just stirred in the uncertain breeze . 
A blurred shield of silver marked the ripples of the fountain . 
Under the flood of dull blue lustre , the gravelled walks lay vague amid the grasses , like webs of white satin on the bed of a lake . 
Against the eastern wall the headstones of the graves , an indistinct procession of grey cowls ranged themselves . 
Vanamee crossed the garden , pausing to kiss the turf upon Angele's grave . 
Once again he summoned the Vision . 
Once again he conjured up the Illusion . 
Once again , tortured with doubt , racked with a deathless grief , he craved an Answer of the night . 
Once again , mystic that he was , he sent his mind out from him across the enchanted sea of the Supernatural . 
Hope , of what he did not know , roused up within him . 
Surely , on such a night as this , the hallucination must define itself . 
Surely , the Manifestation must be vouchsafed . 
Then motionless , prone upon the ground , he waited . 
Months had passed since that first night when , at length , an Answer had come to Vanamee . 
But for all that , he had come a second night to the garden , and a third , and a fourth . 
At last , his visits were habitual . 
Night after night he was there , surrendering himself to the influences of the place , gradually convinced that something did actually answer when he called . 
His faith increased as the winter grew into spring . 
As the spring advanced and the nights became shorter , it crystallised into certainty . 
All that he knew was that his cry found an answer , that his outstretched hands , groping in the darkness , met the touch of other fingers . 
The nights became warmer as the spring drew on . 
For nearly a month after the occasion of his first answer nothing new occurred . 
Some nights it failed him entirely upon others it was faint , illusive . 
Then , at last , the most subtle , the barest of perceptible changes began . 
His groping mind far off there , wandering like a lost bird over the valley , touched upon some thing again . 
touched and held it and this time drew it a single step closer to him . 
His heart beating , the blood surging in his temples , he watched with the eyes of his imagination , this gradual approach . 
His mind went back many years to that time before the tragedy of Angele's death , before the mystery of the Other . 
He waited then as he waited now . 
But then he had not waited in vain . 
Then , as now , he had seemed to feel her approach , seemed to feel her drawing nearer and nearer to their rendezvous . 
Now , what would happen ? He did not know . 
He waited , hoping all things . 
He waited , believing all things . 
He waited , enduring all things . 
He trusted in the Vision . 
Meanwhile , as spring advanced , the flowers in the Seed ranch began to come to life . 
Over the five hundred acres whereon the flowers were planted , the widening growth of vines and bushes spread like the waves of a green sea . 
Then , timidly , colours of the faintest tints began to appear . 
By degrees , the night became impregnated with the perfume of the flowers . 
Illusive at first , evanescent as filaments of gossamer then as the buds opened , emphasising itself , breathing deeper , stronger . 
An exquisite mingling of many odours passed continually over the Mission , from the garden of the Seed ranch , meeting and blending with the aroma of its magnolia buds and punka blossoms . 
By imperceptible degrees , as Vanamee waited under the shadows of the pear trees , the Answer grew nearer and nearer . 
He saw nothing but the distant glimmer of the flowers . 
He heard nothing but the drip of the fountain . 
Nothing moved about him but the invisible , slow passing breaths of perfume yet he felt the approach of the Vision . 
It came first to about the middle of the Seed ranch itself , some half a mile away , where the violets grew shrinking , timid flowers , hiding close to the ground . 
Then it passed forward beyond the violets , and drew nearer and stood amid the mignonette , hardier blooms that dared look heavenward from out the leaves . 
A few nights later it left the mignonette behind , and advanced into the beds of white iris that pushed more boldly forth from the earth , their waxen petals claiming the attention . 
After this , there was a certain long wait . 
Then , upon a dark midnight , it advanced again . 
Vanamee could scarcely repress a cry . 
Now , the illusion emerged from the flowers . 
It stood , not distant , but unseen , almost at the base of the hill upon whose crest he waited , in a depression of the ground where the shadows lay thickest . 
It was nearly within earshot . 
In the daytime intermittent rains freshened all the earth . 
The flowers of the Seed ranch grew rapidly . 
Bud after bud burst forth , while those already opened expanded to full maturity . 
The colour of the Seed ranch deepened . 
One night , after hours of waiting , Vanamee felt upon his cheek the touch of a prolonged puff of warm wind , breathing across the little valley from out the east . 
It reached the Mission garden and stirred the branches of the pear trees . 
It seemed veritably to be compounded of the very essence of the flowers . 
Never had the aroma been so sweet , so pervasive . 
It passed and faded , leaving in its wake an absolute silence . 
Then , at length , the silence of the night , that silence to which Vanamee had so long appealed , was broken by a tiny sound . 
Alert , half risen from the ground , he listened for now , at length , he heard something . 
It came from near at hand , from the thick shadow at the foot of the hill . 
What it was , he could not tell , but it did not belong to a single one of the infinite similar noises of the place with which he was so familiar . 
It was neither the rustle of a leaf , the snap of a parted twig , the drone of an insect , the dropping of a magnolia blossom . 
It was a vibration merely , faint , elusive , impossible of definition a minute notch in the fine , keen edge of stillness . 
The summer stars became brighter . 
The flowers of the Seed ranch grew still more . 
The five hundred acres of the ranch were carpeted with them . 
At length , upon a certain midnight , a new light began to spread in the sky . 
The thin scimitar of the moon rose , veiled and dim behind the earth mists . 
Distant objects , until now hidden , came into view , and as the radiance brightened , Vanamee , looking down upon the little valley , saw a spectacle of incomparable beauty . 
All the buds of the Seed ranch had opened . 
The faint tints of the flowers had deepened , had asserted themselves . 
Pink became a royal red . 
Orange glowed golden and brilliant . 
The earth disappeared under great bands and fields of resplendent colour . 
Then , at length , the moon abruptly soared zenithward from out the veiling mist , passing from one filmy haze to another . 
In that instant of passing light , something had caught his eye . 
Something that moved , down there , half in and half out of the shadow , at the hill's foot . 
It had come and gone in an instant . 
The haze once more screened the moonlight . 
The shade again engulfed the vision . 
What was it he had seen ? He did not know . 
So brief had been that movement , the drowsy brain had not been quick enough to interpret the cipher message of the eye . 
But something had been there . 
It was neither the glancing of a moth's wing , the nodding of a wind touched blossom , nor the noiseless flitting of a bat . 
It was a gleam merely , faint , elusive , impossible of definition , an intangible agitation , in the vast , dim blur of the darkness . 
Until now no single real thing had occurred , nothing that Vanamee could reduce to terms of actuality , nothing he could put into words . 
The manifestation , when not recognisable to that strange sixth sense of his , appealed only to the most refined , the most delicate perception of eye and ear . 
But into that garden the serpent intruded . 
It was the same night in which Annixter out watched the stars , coming , at last , to himself . 
As the hours passed , the two men , far apart , ignoring each other , waited for the Manifestation , Annixter on the ranch , Vanamee in the garden . 
Prone upon his face , under the pear trees , his forehead buried in the hollow of his arm , Vanamee lay motionless . 
He bowed his head upon his arm again and waited . 
Over the hills a haze of saffron light foretold the rising of the full moon . 
Then , abruptly , Vanamee's right hand shut tight upon his wrist . 
It began again , his invocation was answered . 
Far off there , the ripple formed again upon the still , black pool of the night . 
No sound , no sight vibration merely , appreciable by some sublimated faculty of the mind as yet unnamed . 
Rigid , his nerves taut , motionless , prone on the ground , he waited . 
It advanced with infinite slowness . 
Now it passed through the beds of violets , now through the mignonette . 
A moment later , and he knew it stood among the white iris . 
Then it left those behind . 
It was in the splendour of the red roses and carnations . 
It passed like a moving star into the superb abundance , the imperial opulence of the royal lilies . 
It was advancing slowly , but there was no pause . 
He held his breath , not daring to raise his head . 
It passed beyond the limits of the Seed ranch , and entered the shade at the foot of the hill below him . 
But now he wondered if he had been willing to put forth his utmost strength , after all . 
It was the full period of the spring . 
The air was a veritable caress . 
The infinite repose of the little garden , sleeping under the night , was delicious beyond expression . 
It was a tiny corner of the world , shut off , discreet , distilling romance , a garden of dreams , of enchantments . 
The air was thick with the perfume , heavy with it , clogged with it . 
The sweetness filled the very mouth . 
The throat choked with it . 
Overhead wheeled the illimitable procession of the constellations . 
Underfoot , the earth was asleep . 
The very flowers were dreaming . 
A cathedral hush overlay all the land , and a sense of benediction brooded low , a divine kindliness manifesting itself in beauty , in peace , in absolute repose . 
It was a time for visions . 
He passed into a state of being the like of which he had not known before . 
He felt that his imagination was reshaping itself , preparing to receive an impression never experienced until now . 
His body felt light to him , then it dwindled , vanished . 
He saw with new eyes , heard with new ears , felt with a new heart . 
Come to me , he murmured . 
Then slowly he felt the advance of the Vision . 
Every instant it drew gradually nearer . 
At last , he was to see . 
It had left the shadow at the base of the hill it was on the hill itself . 
Slowly , steadily , it ascended the slope just below him there , he heard a faint stirring . 
The grasses rustled under the touch of a foot . 
The leaves of the bushes murmured , as a hand brushed against them a slender twig creaked . 
The sounds of approach were more distinct . 
They reached the top of the hill . 
They were within whispering distance . 
Vanamee , trembling , kept his head buried in his arm . 
The sounds , at length , paused definitely . 
The Vision could come no nearer . 
He raised his head and looked . 
Its great shield of gold stood over the eastern horizon . 
Within six feet of Vanamee , clear and distinct , against the disk of the moon , stood the figure of a young girl . 
She was dressed in a gown of scarlet silk , with flowing sleeves , such as Japanese wear , embroidered with flowers and figures of birds worked in gold threads . 
On either side of her face , making three cornered her round , white forehead , hung the soft masses of her hair of gold . 
Her hands hung limply at her sides . 
Her hands disengaged the scent of the heliotrope . 
The folds of her scarlet gown gave off the enervating smell of poppies . 
Her feet were redolent of hyacinth . 
She stood before him , a Vision realised a dream come true . 
She emerged from out the invisible . 
He beheld her , a figure of gold and pale vermilion , redolent of perfume , poised motionless in the faint saffron sheen of the new risen moon . 
She , a creation of sleep , was herself asleep . 
She , a dream , was herself dreaming . 
Across that white forehead was no smudge , no trace of an earthly pollution no mark of a terrestrial dishonour . 
He saw in her the same beauty of untainted innocence he had known in his youth . 
Years had made no difference with her . 
It was the old purity that returned , the deathless beauty , the ever renascent life , the eternal consecrated and immortal youth . 
For a few seconds , she stood there before him , and he , upon the ground at her feet , looked up at her , spellbound . 
Then , slowly she withdrew . 
Still asleep , her eyelids closed , she turned from him , descending the slope . 
Vanamee started up , coming , as it were , to himself , looking wildly about him . 
I saw her , said the priest . 
It was Angele , the little girl , your Angele's daughter . 
She is like her mother . 
He walked as if in a trance , pushing by Sarria , going forth from the garden . 
Angele or Angele's daughter , it was all one with him . 
Life , ever renewed , alone existed . 
Time was naught change was naught all things were immortal but evil all things eternal but grief . 
Suddenly , the dawn came the east burned roseate toward the zenith . 
Vanamee walked on , he knew not where . 
At length , he paused upon the crest of a hill overlooking the ranchos , and cast his eye below him to the southward . 
Then , suddenly flinging up his arms , he uttered a great cry . 
The Wheat ! The Wheat ! In the night it had come up . 
It was there , everywhere , from margin to margin of the horizon . 
The earth , long empty , teemed with green life . 
Once more the pendulum of the seasons swung in its mighty arc , from death back to life . 
Life out of death , eternity rising from out dissolution . 
Angele was not the symbol , but the PROOF of immortality . 
Why had he not had the knowledge of God ? Thou fool , that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die . 
So the seed had died . 
And that which thou sowest , thou sowest not that body that shall be , but bare grain . 
It may chance of wheat , or of some other grain . 
The wheat called forth from out the darkness , from out the grip of the earth , of the grave , from out corruption , rose triumphant into light and life . 
So Angele , so life , so also the resurrection of the dead . 
It is sown in corruption . 
It is raised in incorruption . 
It is sown in dishonour . 
It is raised in glory . 
It is sown in weakness . 
It is raised in power . 
Death was swallowed up in Victory . 
The glory of the terrestrial was one , and the glory of the celestial was another . 
The whole affair occupied an entire page . 
Thus advertised , the poem attracted attention . 
It was promptly copied in New York , Boston , and Chicago papers . 
It was discussed , attacked , defended , eulogised , ridiculed . 
It was praised with the most fulsome adulation assailed with the most violent condemnation . 
Editorials were written upon it . 
Special articles , in literary pamphlets , dissected its rhetoric and prosody . 
The phrases were quoted , were used as texts for revolutionary sermons , reactionary speeches . 
It was parodied it was distorted so as to read as an advertisement for patented cereals and infants' foods . 
Finally , the editor of an enterprising monthly magazine reprinted the poem , supplementing it by a photograph and biography of Presley himself . 
Presley was stunned , bewildered . 
He began to wonder at himself . 
Was he actually the greatest American poet since Bryant ? He had had no thought of fame while composing The Toilers . 
But soon he denied himself this cheap reward . 
Now he was too much in earnest . 
He wanted to help his People , the community in which he lived the little world of the San Joaquin , at grapples with the Railroad . 
The struggle had found its poet . 
He told himself that his place was here . 
Only the words of the manager of a lecture bureau troubled him for a moment . 
It might do great good . 
Other States than California had their grievances . 
All over the country the family of cyclops was growing . 
He would declare himself the champion of the People in their opposition to the Trust . 
He would be an apostle , a prophet , a martyr of Freedom . 
But Presley was essentially a dreamer , not a man of affairs . 
He hesitated to act at this precise psychological moment , striking while the iron was yet hot , and while he hesitated , other affairs near at hand began to absorb his attention . 
The ex engineer's mother was talking to Magnus and Harran , and crying as she talked . 
It seemed that Dyke was missing . 
He had gone into town early that afternoon with the wagon and team , and was to have been home for supper . 
By now it was ten o'clock and there was no news of him . 
She had telegraphed three times from Guadalajara to Bonneville for news of her son , but without result . 
While Harran rang up Central in town , Mrs. Dyke told Presley and Magnus of the lamentable change in Dyke . 
They have broken my son's spirit , Mr. Derrick , she said . 
If you were only there to see . 
Hour after hour , he sits on the porch with his hands lying open in his lap , looking at them without a word . 
He won't look me in the face any more , and he don't sleep . 
Night after night , he has walked the floor until morning . 
But that isn't the worst , Mr. Derrick . 
He goes to Mr. Caraher's saloon now , and stays there for hours , and listens to Mr. Caraher . 
There is something on my son's mind I know there is something that he and Mr. Caraher have talked over together , and I can't find out what it is . 
Mr. Caraher is a bad man , and my son has fallen under his influence . 
The tears filled her eyes . 
Bravely , she turned to hide them , turning away to take Sidney in her arms , putting her head upon the little girl's shoulder . 
Harran came out on the porch , from the telephone , and she interrupted herself , fixing her eyes eagerly upon him . 
I think it is all right , Mrs. Dyke , he said , reassuringly . 
We know where he is , I believe . 
You and the little tad stay here , and Hooven and I will go after him . 
About two hours later , Harran brought Dyke back to Los Muertos in Hooven's wagon . 
He had found him at Caraher's saloon , very drunk . 
There was nothing maudlin about Dyke's drunkenness . 
In him the alcohol merely roused the spirit of evil , vengeful , reckless . 
There is only one thing they listen to , and that's dynamite . 
The following day Presley drove Magnus over to Guadalajara to take the train for San Francisco . 
But after he had said good bye to the Governor , he was moved to go on to the hop ranch to see the condition of affairs in that quarter . 
He returned to Los Muertos overwhelmed with sadness and trembling with anger . 
The hop ranch that he had last seen in the full tide of prosperity was almost a ruin . 
Work had evidently been abandoned long since . 
Weeds were already choking the vines . 
Everywhere the poles sagged and drooped . 
Many had even fallen , dragging the vines with them , spreading them over the ground in an inextricable tangle of dead leaves , decaying tendrils , and snarled string . 
The fence was broken the unfinished storehouse , which never was to see completion , was a lamentable spectacle of gaping doors and windows a melancholy skeleton . 
Magnus on his way to San Francisco was joined at Bonneville by Osterman . 
Anything wrong these days ? The other answered in the negative , but , for all that , Osterman was right . 
The Governor had aged suddenly . 
But the change in Magnus was more than physical . 
His success had come by devious methods , had been reached by obscure means . 
He could never forget that . 
He had fallen he had given a bribe . 
He had thought that , after all , this would make but little difference with him . 
The affair was known only to Osterman , Broderson , and Annixter they would not judge him , being themselves involved . 
He could still preserve a bold front could still hold his head high . 
As time went on the affair would lose its point . 
But this was not so . 
Some subtle element of his character had forsaken him . 
In the decisions which he , as President of the League , was called upon to make so often , he now hesitated . 
He could no longer be arrogant , masterful , acting upon his own judgment , independent of opinion . 
He began to consult his lieutenants , asking their advice , distrusting his own opinions . 
He made mistakes , blunders , and when those were brought to his notice , took refuge in bluster . 
He knew it to be bluster knew that sooner or later his subordinates would recognise it as such . 
How long could he maintain his position ? So only he could keep his grip upon the lever of control till the battle was over , all would be well . 
If not , he would fall , and , once fallen , he knew that now , briber that he was , he would never rise again . 
When appeal had been taken to the Supreme Court by the League's Executive Committee , certain test cases had been chosen , which should represent all the lands in question . 
Neither Magnus nor Annixter had so appealed , believing , of course , that their cases were covered by the test cases on trial at Washington . 
The ninety days allowed for taking this appeal were nearly at an end and after then the Railroad could act . 
, and talk the matter over with Lyman . 
I had not noticed , answered Magnus . 
Mr. Annixter has been away some time lately . 
I cannot imagine what should keep him so long in San Francisco . 
That's it , said Osterman , winking . 
Guess right and you get a cigar . 
I guess g i r l spells Hilma Tree . 
And a little while ago she quit Quien Sabe and hiked out to 'Frisco . 
Do I draw the cigar ? It's up to you . 
I have noticed her , observed Magnus . 
A fine figure of a woman . 
She would make some man a good wife . 
Hoh ! Wife ! Buck Annixter marry ! Not much . 
He's gone a girling at last , old Buck ! It's as funny as twins . 
Have to josh him about it when I see him , sure . 
But when Osterman and Magnus at last fell in with Annixter in the vestibule of the Lick House , on Montgomery Street , nothing could be got out of him . 
He was in an execrable humour . 
Well , insinuated Osterman , what are you dallying 'round 'Frisco so much for ? Cat fur , to make kitten breeches , retorted Annixter with oracular vagueness . 
In his conjecture that Hilma and her parents would stop here , he was right . 
Their names were on the register . 
Ignoring custom , Annixter marched straight up to their rooms , and before he was well aware of it , was eating crow before old man Tree . 
Hilma and her mother were out at the time . 
Later on , Mrs. Tree returned alone , leaving Hilma to spend the day with one of her cousins who lived far out on Stanyan Street in a little house facing the park . 
Between Annixter and Hilma's parents , a reconciliation had been effected , Annixter convincing them both of his sincerity in wishing to make Hilma his wife . 
Hilma , however , refused to see him . 
She was wretchedly unhappy during all this time would not set foot out of doors , and cried herself to sleep night after night . 
Already she was miserably homesick for the ranch . 
She had been so happy in that life ! Now , all those days were passed . 
This crude , raw city , with its crowding houses all of wood and tin , its blotting fogs , its uproarious trade winds , disturbed and saddened her . 
There was no outlook for the future . 
At length , one day , about a week after Annixter's arrival in the city , she was prevailed upon to go for a walk in the park . 
Without any warning , Annixter sat down beside her . 
She was too frightened to move . 
She looked at him with wide eyes that began to fill with tears . 
Oh , she said , at last , oh I didn't know . 
Well , exclaimed Annixter , here you are at last . 
I've been watching that blamed house till I was afraid the policeman would move me on . 
By the Lord , he suddenly cried , you're pale . 
You you , Hilma , do you feel well ? Yes I am well , she faltered . 
No , you're not , he declared . 
You are coming back to Quien Sabe with me . 
This place don't agree with you . 
I sat all night on a stone out on the ranch somewhere and I don't know exactly what happened , but I've been a different man since then . 
I see things all different now . 
Why , I've only begun to live since then . 
I know what love means now , and instead of being ashamed of it , I'm proud of it . 
If I never was to see you again I would be glad I'd lived through that night , just the same . 
I just woke up that night . 
I've GOT to live different . 
I well oh , I can't make you understand , but just loving you has changed my life all around . 
It's made it easier to do the straight , clean thing . 
I want to do it , it's fun doing it . 
I don't want to be hard any more , and nobody is going to hate me if I can help it . 
I'm happy and I want other people so . 
Do you understand , little girl ? I want to be your husband . 
Hilma looked at the goldfishes through her tears . 
Have you got anything to say to me , Hilma ? he asked , after a while . 
I don't know what you want me to say , she murmured . 
Yes , you do , he insisted . 
I've followed you 'way up here to hear it . 
I've waited around in these beastly , draughty picnic grounds for over a week to hear it . 
You know what I want to hear , Hilma . 
Well I forgive you , she hazarded . 
That will do for a starter , he answered . 
Then , I don't know what . 
Shall I say it for you ? She hesitated a long minute , then You mightn't say it right , she replied . 
Shall I say it for you , Hilma ? I don't know what you'll say . 
I'll say what you are thinking of . 
Shall I say it ? There was a very long pause . 
A goldfish rose to the surface of the little pond , with a sharp , rippling sound . 
No , said Hilma , at length . 
I I I can say it for myself . 
I All at once she turned to him and put her arms around his neck . 
Oh , DO you love me ? she cried . 
He took her in his arms and held her there for a moment . 
He could think of no words to say . 
The tears overflowed his eyes and ran down upon his cheeks . 
She drew away from him and held him a second at arm's length , looking at him , and he saw that she , too , had been crying . 
I think , he said , we are a couple of softies . 
No , no , she insisted . 
I want to cry and want you to cry , too . 
Oh , dear , I haven't a handkerchief . 
They wiped each other's eyes like two children and for a long time sat in the deserted little Japanese pleasure house , their arms about each other , talking , talking , talking . 
On the following Saturday they were married in an uptown Presbyterian church , and spent the week of their honeymoon at a small , family hotel on Sutter Street . 
As a matter of course , they saw the sights of the city together . 
On the sixth day of their excursions , Hilma abruptly declared they had had enough of playing out , and must be serious and get to work . 
This work was nothing less than the buying of the furniture and appointments for the rejuvenated ranch house at Quien Sabe , where they were to live . 
Annixter had telegraphed to his overseer to have the building repainted , replastered , and reshingled and to empty the rooms of everything but the telephone and safe . 
He also sent instructions to have the dimensions of each room noted down and the result forwarded to him . 
It was the arrival of these memoranda that had roused Hilma to action . 
Then ensued a most delicious week . 
Armed with formidable lists , written by Annixter on hotel envelopes , they two descended upon the department stores of the city , the carpet stores , the furniture stores . 
Right and left they bought and bargained , sending each consignment as soon as purchased to Quien Sabe . 
The furnishings of the bedroom and sitting room were left to the very last . 
The bed was a piece by itself , bought elsewhere , but none the less a wonder . 
Never was there such a bed , the luxury of a princess , such a bed as she had dreamed about her whole life . 
At last everything had been bought , all arrangements made , Hilma's trunks packed with her new dresses , and the tickets to Bonneville bought . 
Five in the morning ! Never mind , he declared , we'll go home in PULLMAN'S , Hilma . 
I'm not going to have any of those slobs in Bonneville say I didn't know how to do the thing in style , and we'll have Vacca meet us with the team . 
No , sir , it is Pullman's or nothing . 
When it comes to buying furniture , I don't shine , perhaps , but I know what's due my wife . 
Only Hilma's parents were there to say good bye . 
Annixter knew that Magnus and Osterman were in the city , but he had laid his plans to elude them . 
Magnus , he could trust to be dignified , but that goat Osterman , one could never tell what he would do next . 
He did not propose to start his journey home in a shower of rice . 
Annixter was in a turmoil of nerves lest something should go wrong catching a train was always for him a little crisis . 
He rushed ahead so furiously that when he had found his Pullman he had lost his party . 
He set down his valises to mark the place and charged back along the platform , waving his arms . 
Come on , he cried , when , at length , he espied the others . 
He shouldered and urged them forward to where he had set his valises , only to find one of them gone . 
Instantly he raised an outcry . 
Aha , a fine way to treat passengers ! There was P. and S. W. management for you . 
He would , by the Lord , he would but the porter appeared in the vestibule of the car to placate him . 
He had already taken his valises inside . 
Annixter would not permit Hilma's parents to board the car , declaring that the train might pull out any moment . 
These latter would not return to Quien Sabe . 
Old man Tree had found a business chance awaiting him in the matter of supplying his relative's hotel with dairy products . 
But Bonneville was not too far from San Francisco the separation was by no means final . 
The porters began taking up the steps that stood by the vestibule of each sleeping car . 
Well , have a good time , daughter , observed her father and come up to see us whenever you can . 
From beyond the enclosure of the depot's reverberating roof came the measured clang of a bell . 
I guess we're off , cried Annixter . 
Good bye , Mrs. Tree . 
Remember your promise , Hilma , her mother hastened to exclaim , to write every Sunday afternoon . 
There came a prolonged creaking and groan of straining wood and iron work , all along the length of the train . 
They all began to cry their good byes at once . 
The train stirred , moved forward , and gathering slow headway , rolled slowly out into the sunlight . 
Hilma leaned out of the window and as long as she could keep her mother in sight waved her handkerchief . 
Then at length she sat back in her seat and looked at her husband . 
Well , echoed Annixter , happy ? for the tears rose in her eyes . 
She nodded energetically , smiling at him bravely . 
You look a little pale , he declared , frowning uneasily feel well ? Pretty well . 
Promptly he was seized with uneasiness . 
No doubt a little nausea yet remained with her . 
But Annixter refused to accept this explanation . 
He was distressed beyond expression . 
Now you're going to be sick , he cried anxiously . 
No , no , she protested , not a bit . 
But you said you didn't feel very well . 
Where is it you feel sick ? I don't know . 
Oh , dear me , why will you bother ? Headache ? Not the least . 
You feel tired , then . 
No wonder , the way rushed you 'round to day . 
Dear , I'm NOT tired , and I'm NOT sick , and I'm all RIGHT . 
No , no I can tell . 
I think we'd best have the berth made up and you lie down . 
That would be perfectly ridiculous . 
Well , where is it you feel sick ? Show me put your hand on the place . 
Wonder if there's a doctor on board , he murmured , looking uncertainly about the car . 
Let me see your tongue . 
I know a little whiskey is what you want , that and some pru No , no , NO , she exclaimed . 
I'm as well as I ever was in all my life . 
Now , tell me , do l look likee a sick lady ? He scrutinised her face distressfully . 
Now , don't I look the picture of health ? she challenged . 
In a way you do , he began , and then again Hilma beat a tattoo with her heels upon the floor , shutting her fists , the thumbs tucked inside . 
She closed her eyes , shaking her head energetically . 
I won't listen , I won't listen , I won't listen , she cried . 
But , just the same Gibble gibble gibble , she mocked . 
I won't Listen , I won't listen . 
She put a hand over his mouth . 
Look , here's the dining car waiter , and the first call for supper , and your wife is hungry . 
It was already dark when Antioch was left behind . 
Abruptly the sunset appeared to wheel in the sky and readjusted itself to the right of the track behind Mount Diablo , here visible almost to its base . 
The train had turned southward . 
Neroly was passed , then Brentwood , then Byron . 
In the gathering dusk , mountains began to build themselves up on either hand , far off , blocking the horizon . 
The train shot forward , roaring . 
Between the mountains the land lay level , cut up into farms , ranches . 
These continually grew larger growing wheat began to appear , billowing in the wind of the train's passage . 
The mountains grew higher , the land richer , and by the time the moon rose , the train was well into the northernmost limits of the valley of the San Joaquin . 
Annixter had engaged an entire section , and after he and his wife went to bed had the porter close the upper berth . 
But by nine o'clock , all these people were in their berths . 
Occasionally , above the rhythmic rumble of the wheels , Annixter could hear one of the lady's children fidgeting and complaining . 
The stout gentleman snored monotonously in two notes , one a rasping bass , the other a prolonged treble . 
At intervals , a brakeman or the passenger conductor pushed down the aisle , between the curtains , his red and white lamp over his arm . 
Annixter , checking off the stations , noted their passage of Modesto , Merced , and Madeira . 
Then , after another broken nap , he lost count . 
He wondered where they were . 
Had they reached Fresno yet ? Raising the window curtain , he made a shade with both hands on either side of his face and looked out . 
The night was thick , dark , clouded over . 
A fine rain was falling , leaving horizontal streaks on the glass of the outside window . 
Only the faintest grey blur indicated the sky . 
Everything else was impenetrable blackness . 
I think sure we must have passed Fresno , he muttered . 
He looked at his watch . 
It was about half past three . 
If we have passed Fresno , he said to himself , I'd better wake the little girl pretty soon . 
She'll need about an hour to dress . 
Better find out for sure . 
He drew on his trousers and shoes , got into his coat , and stepped out into the aisle . 
What's the next stop , Captain ? inquired Annixter , coming up . 
Have we reached Fresno yet ? Just passed it , the other responded , looking at Annixter over his spectacles . 
What's the next stop ? Goshen . 
We will be there in about forty five minutes . 
Fair black night , isn't it ? Black as a pocket . 
Let's see , you're the party in upper and lower . 
Hello , hello , he exclaimed , what's all up now ? Emergency brakes , declared the conductor , catching up his cash box and thrusting his papers and tickets into it . 
Nothing much probably a cow on the track . 
He disappeared , carrying his lantern with him . 
What was that ? Anything wrong ? What's up , anyways ? Hilma was just waking as Annixter pushed the curtain aside . 
Oh , I was so frightened . 
What's the matter , dear ? she exclaimed . 
I don't know , he answered . 
Just a cow on the track , I guess . 
But with a final shriek of the Westinghouse appliance , the train came to a definite halt . 
At once the silence was absolute . 
The ears , still numb with the long continued roar of wheels and clashing iron , at first refused to register correctly the smaller noises of the surroundings . 
Voices came from the other end of the car , strange and unfamiliar , as though heard at a great distance across the water . 
The stillness of the night outside was so profound that the rain , dripping from the car roof upon the road bed underneath , was as distinct as the ticking of a clock . 
Well , we've sure stopped , observed one of the drummers . 
What is it ? asked Hilma again . 
Are you sure there's nothing wrong ? Sure , said Annixter . 
Outside , underneath their window , they heard the sound of hurried footsteps crushing into the clinkers by the side of the ties . 
They passed on , and Annixter heard some one in the distance shout Yes , on the other side . 
Then the door at the end of their car opened and a brakeman with a red beard ran down the aisle and out upon the platform in front . 
In the stillness the fat gentleman's snores made themselves heard once more . 
The minutes passed nothing stirred . 
There was no sound but the dripping rain . 
The line of cars lay immobilised and inert under the night . 
One of the drummers , having stepped outside on the platform for a look around , returned , saying There sure isn't any station anywheres about and no siding . 
Bet you they have had an accident of some kind . 
Maybe they stopped to take on wood or water , or something . 
Well , they wouldn't use the emergency brakes for that , would they ? Why , this train stopped almost in her own length . 
Pretty near slung me out the berth . 
Those were the emergency brakes . 
I heard some one say so . 
By God , boys , they're shooting . 
Say , this is a hold up . 
Instantly a white hot excitement flared from end to end of the car . 
Wide eyed , the passengers of the car looked into each other's faces . 
It had come to them at last , this , they had so often read about . 
They were facing it now . 
Hilma said nothing , only catching Annixter's hand , looking squarely into his eyes . 
Steady , little girl , he said . 
By the Lord , he suddenly exclaimed , his excitement getting the better of him for a moment . 
By the Lord , it's a hold up . 
Two of them were weeping , white to the lips . 
Oh , oh , oh , it's terrible . 
Oh , if they only won't hurt me . 
But the lady with the children looked out from her berth , smiled reassuringly , and said I'm not a bit frightened . 
They won't do anything to us if we keep quiet . 
I've my watch and jewelry all ready for them in my little black bag , see ? She exhibited it to the passengers . 
Her children were all awake . 
They were quiet , looking about them with eager faces , interested and amused at this surprise . 
In his berth , the fat gentleman with whiskers snored profoundly . 
Say , I'm going out there , suddenly declared one of the drummers , flourishing a pocket revolver . 
His friend caught his arm . 
Don't make a fool of yourself , Max , he said . 
They won't come near us , observed the well dressed young man they are after the Wells Fargo box and the registered mail . 
You won't do any good out there . 
But the other loudly protested . 
No he was going out . 
He didn't propose to be buncoed without a fight . 
Well , you don't go , that's all , said his friend , angrily . 
There's women and children in this car . 
You ain't going to draw the fire here . 
Well , that's to be thought of , said the other , allowing himself to be pacified , but still holding his pistol . 
Sure , that's right , said the others . 
You'll get us all shot if you aren't careful . 
However , the drummer had got the window up and had leaned out before the others could interfere and draw him away . 
Say , by jove , he shouted , as he turned back to the car , our engine's gone . 
We're standing on a curve and you can see the end of the train . 
She's gone , I tell you . 
Well , look for yourself . 
In spite of their precautions , one after another , his friends looked out . 
Sure enough , the train was without a locomotive . 
They've done it so we can't get away , vociferated the drummer with the pistol . 
Now , by jiminy Christmas , they'll come through the cars and stand us up . 
They'll be in here in a minute . 
LORD ! WHAT WAS THAT ? From far away up the track , apparently some half mile ahead of the train , came the sound of a heavy explosion . 
The windows of the car vibrated with it . 
That isn't shooting , exclaimed Annixter . 
They've pulled the express and mail car on ahead with the engine and now they are dynamiting her open . 
Yes , sure , that's just what they are doing . 
The forward door of the car opened and closed and the school teachers shrieked and cowered . 
The drummer with the revolver faced about , his eyes bulging . 
However , it was only the train conductor , hatless , his lantern in his hand . 
He was soaked with rain . 
He appeared in the aisle . 
Is there a doctor in this car ? he asked . 
Promptly the passengers surrounded him , voluble with questions . 
But he was in a bad temper . 
I don't know anything more than you , he shouted angrily . 
It was a hold up . 
I guess you know that , don't you ? Well , what more do you want to know ? I ain't got time to fool around . 
They cut off our express car and have cracked it open , and they shot one of our train crew , that's all , and I want a doctor . 
What do I know ? Is there a DOCTOR in this car , that's what I want to know ? The well dressed young man stepped forward . 
I'm a doctor , he said . 
It's all over and there's nothing to see . 
He went out , followed by the young doctor . 
Then ensued an interminable period of silence . 
The entire train seemed deserted . 
Helpless , bereft of its engine , a huge , decapitated monster it lay , half way around a curve , rained upon , abandoned . 
What was to become of them now ? Who was there to help them ? Their engine was gone they were helpless . 
What next was to happen ? Nobody came near the car . 
Even the porter had disappeared . 
The wait seemed endless , and the persistent snoring of the whiskered gentleman rasped the nerves like the scrape of a file . 
Well , how long are we going to stick here now ? began one of the drummers . 
Wonder if they hurt the engine with their dynamite ? Oh , I know they will come through the car and rob us , wailed the school teachers . 
The lady with the little children went back to bed , and Annixter , assured that the trouble was over , did likewise . 
From berth to berth came the sound of suppressed voices talking it all over , formulating conjectures . 
Certain points seemed to be settled upon , no one knew how , as indisputable . 
The highwaymen had been four in number and had stopped the train by pulling the bell cord . 
A brakeman had attempted to interfere and had been shot . 
The robbers had been on the train all the way from San Francisco . 
The drummer named Max remembered to have seen four suspicious looking characters in the smoking car at Lathrop , and had intended to speak to the conductor about them . 
This drummer had been in a hold up before , and told the story of it over and over again . 
At the jolting , the school teachers screamed in chorus , and the whiskered gentleman stopped snoring and thrust his head from his curtains , blinking at the Pintsch lights . 
It appeared that he was an Englishman . 
I say , he asked of the drummer named Max , I say , my friend , what place is this ? The others roared with derision . 
We were HELD UP , sir , that's what we were . 
We were held up and you slept through it all . 
You missed the show of your life . 
The gentleman fixed the group with a prolonged gaze . 
He said never a word , but little by little he was convinced that the drummers told the truth . 
All at once he grew wrathful , his face purpling . 
He withdrew his head angrily , buttoning his curtains together in a fury . 
The cause of his rage was inexplicable , but they could hear him resettling himself upon his pillows with exasperated movements of his head and shoulders . 
In a few moments the deep bass and shrill treble of his snoring once more sounded through the car . 
At last the train got under way again , with useless warning blasts of the engine's whistle . 
In a few moments it was tearing away through the dawn at a wonderful speed , rocking around curves , roaring across culverts , making up time . 
He sat down in the smoking room , lighting a cigarette , and Annixter and the drummers pressed around him to know the story of the whole affair . 
The man is dead , he declared , the brakeman . 
He was shot through the lungs twice . 
They think the fellow got away with about five thousand in gold coin . 
The fellow ? Wasn't there four of them ? No only one . 
And say , let me tell you , he had his nerve with him . 
Even ordered 'em to use the emergency gear , seems he knew all about it . 
Then he went back and uncoupled the express car himself . 
While he was doing this , a brakeman you remember that brakeman that came through here once or twice had a red mustache . 
They weren't five feet apart when they began shooting . 
The brakeman had come on him unexpected , had no idea he was so close . 
And the express messenger , all this time ? Well , he did his best . 
Jumped out with his repeating shot gun , but the fellow had him covered before he could turn round . 
Held him up and took his gun away from him . 
Say , you know I call that nerve , just the same . 
One man standing up a whole train load , like that . 
What do you think of that ? Didn't he have it all figured out close ? And when he got there , he dynamited the safe and got the Wells Fargo box . 
He took five thousand in gold coin the messenger says it was railroad money that the company were sending down to Bakersfield to pay off with . 
It was in a bag . 
He never touched the registered mail , nor a whole wad of greenbacks that were in the safe , but just took the coin , got on his horse , and lit out . 
The engineer says he went to the east'ard . 
He got away , did he ? Yes , but they think they'll get him . 
He wore a kind of mask , but the brakeman recognised him positively . 
We got his ante mortem statement . 
The brakeman said the fellow had a grudge against the road . 
He was a discharged employee , and lives near Bonneville . 
Dyke , by the Lord ! exclaimed Annixter . 
That's the name , said the young doctor . 
When the train arrived at Bonneville , forty minutes behind time , it landed Annixter and Hilma in the midst of the very thing they most wished to avoid an enormous crowd . 
Before the train had come to a standstill under the arched roof of the Bonneville depot , it was all but taken by assault . 
Annixter , with Hilma on his arm , had almost to fight his way out of the car . 
The depot was black with people . 
S. Behrman was there , Delaney , Cyrus Ruggles , the town marshal , the mayor . 
Can I have your version of the affair , Mr. Annixter ? Annixter turned on him abruptly . 
Yes ! he exclaimed fiercely . 
You and your gang drove Dyke from his job because he wouldn't work for starvation wages . 
Then you raised freight rates on him and robbed him of all he had . 
You ruined him and drove him to fill himself up with Caraher's whiskey . 
That's my version of the affair , Mister Genslinger , but it's worth your subsidy from the P. and S. W. to print it . 
There was a murmur of approval from the crowd that stood around , and Genslinger , with an angry shrug of one shoulder , took himself away . 
At length , Annixter brought Hilma through the crowd to where young Vacca was waiting with the team . 
However , they could not at once start for the ranch , Annixter wishing to ask some questions at the freight office about a final consignment of chairs . 
It was nearly eleven o'clock before they could start home . 
But to gain the Upper Road to Quien Sabe , it was necessary to traverse all of Main Street , running through the heart of Bonneville . 
The entire town seemed to be upon the sidewalks . 
By now the rain was over and the sun shining . 
The story of the hold up the work of a man whom every one knew and liked was in every mouth . 
How had Dyke come to do it ? Who would have believed it of him ? Think of his poor mother and the little tad . 
Well , after all , he was not so much to blame the railroad people had brought it on themselves . 
But he had shot a man to death . 
Ah , that was a serious business . 
Good natured , big , broad shouldered , jovial Dyke , the man they knew , with whom they had shaken hands only yesterday , yes , and drank with him . 
He had shot a man , killed him , had stood there in the dark and in the rain while they were asleep in their beds , and had killed a man . 
He was in amongst them somewhere , in all that pile of blue crests and purple canyons he was hidden away . 
Now for weeks of searching , false alarms , clews , trailings , watchings , all the thrill and heart bursting excitement of a man hunt . 
Would he get away ? Hardly a man on the sidewalks of the town that day who did not hope for it . 
As Annixter's team trotted through the central portion of the town , young Vacca pointed to a denser and larger crowd around the rear entrance of the City Hall . 
It's the posse , said young Vacca . 
Outside the town limits the ground was level . 
There're the other posses , he announced . 
That further one is Archie Moore's . 
He came down from Visalia on a special engine this morning . 
When the team turned into the driveway to the ranch house , Hilma uttered a little cry , clasping her hands joyfully . 
The house was one glitter of new white paint , the driveway had been freshly gravelled , the flower beds replenished . 
Mrs. Vacca and her daughter , who had been busy putting on the finishing touches , came to the door to welcome them . 
It came here last night , addressed to you , sir , exclaimed Mrs. Vacca . 
We were sure it wasn't any of your furniture , so we didn't open it . 
Oh , maybe it's a wedding present , exclaimed Hilma , her eyes sparkling . 
Well , maybe it is , returned her husband . 
Here , m' son , help me in with this . 
Annixter and young Vacca bore the case into the sitting room of the house , and Annixter , hammer in hand , attacked it vigorously . 
Vacca discreetly withdrew on signal from his mother , closing the door after him . 
Annixter and his wife were left alone . 
Oh , hurry , hurry , cried Hilma , dancing around him . 
I want to see what it is . 
Who do you suppose could have sent it to us ? And so heavy , too . 
What do you think it can be ? Annixter put the claw of the hammer underneath the edge of the board top and wrenched with all his might . 
The boards had been clamped together by a transverse bar and the whole top of the box came away in one piece . 
A layer of excelsior was disclosed , and on it a letter addressed by typewriter to Annixter . 
It bore the trade mark of a business firm of Los Angeles . 
Annixter glanced at this and promptly caught it up before Hilma could see , with an exclamation of intelligence . 
Oh , I know what this is , he observed , carelessly trying to restrain her busy hands . 
But already she had pulled away the excelsior . 
Underneath , in temporary racks , were two dozen Winchester repeating rifles . 
Why what what murmured Hilma blankly . 
Well , I told you not to mind , said Annixter . 
Let's look through the rooms . 
But you said you knew what it was , she protested , bewildered . 
You wanted to make believe it was machinery . 
Are you keeping anything from me ? Tell me what it all means . 
Oh , why are you getting these ? She caught his arm , looking with intense eagerness into his face . 
And I thought , cried Hilma , drawing back fearfully from the case of rifles , and I thought it was a wedding present . 
And that was their home coming , the end of their bridal trip . 
Soon a week had gone by . 
Magnus Derrick and Osterman returned from the city without any definite idea as to the Corporation's plans . 
He knew nothing as to the progress of the land cases in Washington . 
The Executive Committee of the League held a perfunctory meeting at Los Muertos at which nothing but routine business was transacted . 
It was impossible to learn whether or not the company considered Los Muertos , Quien Sabe , and the ranches around Bonneville covered by the test cases then on appeal . 
Meanwhile there was no decrease in the excitement that Dyke's hold up had set loose over all the county . 
Day after day it was the one topic of conversation , at street corners , at cross roads , over dinner tables , in office , bank , and store . 
S. Behrman placarded the town with a notice of . 
reward for the ex engineer's capture , dead or alive , and the express company supplemented this by another offer of an equal amount . 
The country was thick with parties of horsemen , armed with rifles and revolvers , recruited from Visalia , Goshen , and the few railroad sympathisers around Bonneville and Guadlajara . 
The sheriff of Santa Clara County sent down his bloodhounds from San Jose small , harmless looking dogs , with a terrific bay to help in the chase . 
Reporters from the San Francisco papers appeared , interviewing every one , sometimes even accompanying the searching bands . 
And all to no effect . 
The hoof marks of Dyke's horse had been traced in the mud of the road to within a quarter of a mile of the foot hills and there irretrievably lost . 
Three days after the hold up , a sheep herder was found who had seen the highwayman on a ridge in the higher mountains , to the northeast of Taurusa . 
And that was absolutely all . 
Rumours were thick , promising clews were discovered , new trails taken up , but nothing transpired to bring the pursuers and pursued any closer together . 
Then , after ten days of strain , public interest began to flag . 
It was believed that Dyke had succeeded in getting away . 
Thus , the sheriffs , marshals , and deputies decided . 
They had hunted too many criminals in these mountains before not to know the usual courses taken . 
In time , Dyke MUST come out of the mountains to get water and provisions . 
But this time passed , and from not one of the watched points came any word of his appearance . 
At last the posses began to disband . 
Little by little the pursuit was given up . 
He had made up his mind to bring Dyke in . 
These two went into the Sierras , accompanied by two hired deputies , and carrying with them a month's provisions and two of the bloodhounds loaned by the Santa Clara sheriff . 
He found her in the dining room , her hands full of the gold bordered china plates , only used on special occasions and which Louisa was forbidden to touch . 
His wife was more than ordinarily pretty that day . 
Her cheeks were pink with health , and her large round arms carried the piled up dishes with never a tremour . 
Annixter , observant enough where his wife was concerned noted how the reflection of the white china set a glow of pale light underneath her chin . 
Hilma , he said , I've been wondering lately about things . 
We're so blamed happy ourselves it won't do for us to forget about other people who are down , will it ? Might change our luck . 
And I'm just likely to forget that way , too . 
His wife looked up at him joyfully . 
Here was the new Annixter , certainly . 
In all this hullabaloo about Dyke , he went on there's some one nobody ain't thought about at all . 
Dyke and the little tad . 
I wouldn't be surprised if they were in a hole over there . 
As soon as their dinner was over , Annixter had the carry all hitched up , and , dispensing with young Vacca , drove over to the hop ranch with Hilma . 
Though the wheels of the carry all grated loudly on the roadway in front of the house , nobody came to the door nor looked from the windows . 
The place seemed tenantless , infinitely lonely , infinitely sad . 
Annixter tied the team , and with Hilma approached the wide open door , scuffling and tramping on the porch to attract attention . 
A Sunday stillness pervaded the place . 
Outside , the withered hop leaves rustled like dry paper in the breeze . 
They peered into the front room from the doorway , Hilma holding her husband's hand . 
She sat at the table in the middle of the room , her head , with its white hair , down upon her arm . 
A clutter of unwashed dishes were strewed over the red and white tablecloth . 
The unkempt room , once a marvel of neatness , had not been cleaned for days . 
Newspapers , Genslinger's extras and copies of San Francisco and Los Angeles dailies were scattered all over the room . 
On the table itself were crumpled yellow telegrams , a dozen of them , a score of them , blowing about in the draught from the door . 
Neither Hilma nor Annixter ever forgot their interview with Mrs. Dyke that day . 
Suddenly waking , she had caught sight of Annixter , and at once exclaimed eagerly Is there any news ? For a long time afterwards nothing could be got from her . 
She was numb to all other issues than the one question of Dyke's capture . 
She did not answer their questions nor reply to their offers of assistance . 
Is she well ? Is she taken care of ? Here's the last telegram , said Mrs. Dyke , in a loud , monotonous voice . 
See , it says there is no news . 
I don't know where he is . 
When at last she came to herself , it was with a flood of tears . 
Hilma put her arms around the poor , old woman , as she bowed herself again upon the table , sobbing and weeping . 
Oh , my son , my son , she cried , my own boy , my only son ! If I could have died for you to have prevented this . 
I remember him when he was little . 
Such a splendid little fellow , so brave , so loving , with never an unkind thought , never a mean action . 
So it was all his life . 
It was always 'dear little son , and 'dear mammy' between us never once was he unkind , and he loved me and was the gentlest son to me . 
And he was a GOOD man . 
He is now , he is now . 
They are not even sure that he did this . 
They don't know my son . 
Why , he wouldn't have hurt a kitten . 
He was driven to it . 
They hounded him down , they wouldn't let him alone . 
He was not right in his mind . 
They hounded him to it , she cried fiercely , they hounded him to it . 
They drove him and goaded him till he couldn't stand it any longer , and now they mean to kill him for turning on them . 
They are hunting him with dogs night after night I have stood on the porch and heard the dogs baying far off . 
They are tracking my boy with dogs like a wild animal . 
May God never forgive them . 
She rose to her feet , terrible , her white hair unbound . 
But Hilma interrupted , begging her to be silent , to be quiet . 
The tears came again then and the choking sobs . 
Hilma took her in her arms . 
Oh , my little boy , my little boy , she cried . 
My only son , all that I had , to have come to this ! He was not right in his mind or he would have known it would break my heart . 
Oh , my son , my son , if I could have died for you . 
Sidney came in , clinging to her dress , weeping , imploring her not to cry , protesting that they never could catch her papa , that he would come back soon . 
Hilma took them both , the little child and the broken down old woman , in the great embrace of her strong arms , and they all three sobbed together . 
Annixter stood on the porch outside , his back turned , looking straight before him into the wilderness of dead vines , his teeth shut hard , his lower lip thrust out . 
I hope S. Behrman is satisfied with all this , he muttered . 
I hope he is satisfied now , damn his soul ! All at once an idea occurred to him . 
He turned about and reentered the room . 
Mrs Dyke , he began , I want you and Sidney to come over and live at Quien Sabe . 
I want you to let me take care of you and the little tad till all this trouble of yours is over with . 
There's plenty of place for you . 
You can have the house my wife's people used to live in . 
You've got to look these things in the face . 
What are you going to do to get along ? You must be very short of money . 
S. Behrman will foreclose on you and take the whole place in a little while , now . 
I want you to let me help you , let Hilma and me be good friends to you . 
It would be a privilege . 
Mrs. Dyke tried bravely to assume her pride , insisting that she could manage , but her spirit was broken . 
The whole affair ended unexpectedly , with Annixter and Hilma bringing Dyke's mother and little girl back to Quien Sabe in the carry all . 
Mrs. Dyke would not take with her a stick of furniture nor a single ornament . 
It would only serve to remind her of a vanished happiness . 
She packed a few clothes of her own and Sidney's in a little trunk , Hilma helping her , and Annixter stowed the trunk under the carry all's back seat . 
Mrs. Dyke turned the key in the door of the house and Annixter helped her to her seat beside his wife . 
They drove through the sear , brown hop vines . 
At the angle of the road Mrs. Dyke turned around and looked back at the ruin of the hop ranch , the roof of the house just showing above the trees . 
She never saw it again . 
Fine , she exclaimed , oh , it was fine of you , dear to think of them and to be so good to them . 
My husband is such a GOOD man . 
You wouldn't have thought of being kind to Mrs. Dyke and Sidney a little while ago . 
You wouldn't have thought of them at all . 
But you did now , and it's just because you love me true , isn't it ? Isn't it ? And because it's made you a better man . 
I'm so proud and glad to think it's so . 
It is so , isn't it ? Just because you love me true . 
You bet it is , Hilma , he told her . 
He said it was important , added Louisa Vacca . 
Maybe they have news from Washington , suggested Hilma . 
Annixter would not wait to have supper , but telephoned to Los Muertos at once . 
There was a special meeting of the Executive Committee of the League summoned for the next day , he told Annixter . 
It was for the purpose of considering the new grain tariff prepared by the Railroad Commissioners . 
Magnus said Lyman would be present at the session . 
Annixter , curious for details , forbore , nevertheless , to question . 
The connection from Los Muertos to Quien Sabe was made through Bonneville , and in those troublesome times no one could be trusted . 
It could not be known who would overhear conversations carried on over the lines . 
He assured Magnus that he would be on hand . 
At the time appointed , the men composing the Committee gathered about the table in the dining room of the Los Muertos ranch house . 
It was almost a reproduction of the scene of the famous evening when Osterman had proposed the plan of the Ranchers' Railroad Commission . 
Magnus Derrick sat at the head of the table , in his buttoned frock coat . 
Whiskey bottles and siphons of soda water were within easy reach . 
Presley , who by now was considered the confidential friend of every member of the Committee , lounged as before on the sofa , smoking cigarettes , the cat Nathalie on his knee . 
My son Lyman should be here , gentlemen , within at least ten minutes . 
I have sent my team to meet him at Bonneville , explained Magnus , as he called the meeting to order . 
The Secretary will call the roll . 
Osterman called the roll , and , to fill in the time , read over the minutes of the previous meeting . 
The treasurer was making his report as to the funds at the disposal of the League when Lyman arrived . 
Lyman was dressed with his usual correctness . 
His cravat was of the latest fashion , his clothes of careful design and unimpeachable fit . 
His shoes , of patent leather , reflected the lamplight , and he carried a drab overcoat over his arm . 
Before being introduced to the Committee , he excused himself a moment and ran to see his mother , who waited for him in the adjoining sitting room . 
But in a few moments he returned , asking pardon for the delay . 
He was all affability his protruding eyes , that gave such an unusual , foreign appearance to his very dark face , radiated geniality . 
He was evidently anxious to please , to produce a good impression upon the grave , clumsy farmers before whom he stood . 
But at the same time , Presley , watching him from his place on the sofa , could imagine that he was rather nervous . 
Mr. Broderson , my son , Lyman , my eldest son . 
Mr. Annixter , my son , Lyman . 
The Governor introduced him to the ranchers , proud of Lyman's good looks , his correct dress , his ease of manner . 
At length , however , he sat down at the end of the table , opposite his brother . 
But Lyman very politely protested , addressing his father punctiliously as Mr. Chairman , and the other ranchers as Gentlemen of the Executive Committee of the League . 
He had no wish , he said , to disarrange the regular proceedings of the Committee . 
Would it not be preferable to defer the reading of his report till new business was called for ? In the meanwhile , let the Committee proceed with its usual work . 
He understood the necessarily delicate nature of this work , and would be pleased to withdraw till the proper time arrived for him to speak . 
Good deal of backing and filling about the reading of a column of figures , muttered Annixter to the man at his elbow . 
Lyman awaited the Committee's decision . 
He sat down , touching the ends of his mustache . 
Oh , play ball , growled Annixter . 
Lyman rose and made a long speech . 
All this he contrived to mention casually , in the talk , as if it were a foregone conclusion , a matter understood by all . 
A feeling of perplexity began to spread , and the first taint of distrust invaded their minds . 
But the good work has been most auspiciously inaugurated , continued Lyman . 
Reforms so sweeping as the one contemplated cannot be accomplished in a single night . 
Great things grow slowly , benefits to be permanent must accrue gradually . 
Yet , in spite of all this , your commissioners have done much . 
Already the phalanx of the enemy is pierced , already his armour is dinted . 
Pledged as were your commissioners to an average ten per cent . 
reduction in rates for the carriage of grain by the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad , we have rigidly adhered to the demands of our constituency , we have obeyed the People . 
CUT HAS BEEN MADE ALL OVER THE STATE . 
all over the State , rejoined Lyman . 
Here are copies of the new schedule . 
He drew them from his valise and passed them around the table . 
You see , he observed , the rate between Mayfield and Oakland , for instance , has been reduced by twenty five cents a ton . 
Is this right ? Did you give me the right schedule ? Of course , ALL the points in the State could not be covered at once , returned Lyman . 
We never expected , you know , that we could cut rates in the San Joaquin the very first move that is for later . 
But you will see we made very material reductions on shipments from the upper Sacramento Valley also the rate from Ione to Marysville has been reduced eighty cents a ton . 
Why , rot , cried Annixter , no one ever ships wheat that way . 
The Salinas rate , continued Lyman , has been lowered seventy five cents the St . 
Helena rate fifty cents , and please notice the very drastic cut from Red Bluff , north , along the Oregon route , to the Oregon State Line . 
Where not a carload of wheat is shipped in a year , commented Gethings of the San Pablo . 
Oh , you will find yourself mistaken there , Mr. Gethings , returned Lyman courteously . 
And for the matter of that , a low rate would stimulate wheat production in that district . 
The order of the meeting was broken up , neglected Magnus did not even pretend to preside . 
In the growing excitement over the inexplicable schedule , routine was not thought of . 
Every one spoke at will . 
Why , Lyman , demanded Magnus , looking across the table to his son , is this schedule correct ? You have not cut rates in the San Joaquin at all . 
We these gentlemen here and myself , we are no better off than we were before we secured your election as commissioner . 
We were pledged to make an average ten per cent . 
cut , sir It IS an average ten per cent . 
Oh , yes , that's plain . 
It's an average ten per cent . 
cut all right , but you've made it by cutting grain rates between points where practically no grain is shipped . 
We , the wheat growers in the San Joaquin , where all the wheat is grown , are right where we were before . 
The Railroad won't lose a nickel . 
By Jingo , boys , he glanced around the table , I'd like to know what this means . 
The Railroad , if you come to that , returned Lyman , has already lodged a protest against the new rate . 
Annixter uttered a derisive shout . 
A protest ! That's good , that is . 
When the P. and S. W. objects to rates it don't 'protest , m' son . 
The first you hear from Mr. Shelgrim is an injunction from the courts preventing the order for new rates from taking effect . 
By the Lord , he cried angrily , leaping to his feet , I would like to know what all this means , too . 
Order , order , gentlemen , cried Magnus , remembering the duties of his office and rapping his knuckles on the table . 
This meeting has been allowed to degenerate too far already . 
You elected us , declared Lyman doggedly , to make an average ten per cent . 
Only because you don't benefit at once , you object . 
It makes a difference whose ox is gored , it seems . 
Lyman ! It was Magnus who spoke . 
He had drawn himself to his full six feet . 
His eyes were flashing direct into his son's . 
His voice rang with severity . 
Lyman , what does this mean ? The other spread out his hands . 
As you see , sir . 
We have done our best . 
I warned you not to expect too much . 
I told you that this question of transportation was difficult . 
You would not wish to put rates so low that the action would amount to confiscation of property . 
Why did you not lower rates in the valley of the San Joaquin ? That was not a PROMINENT issue in the affair , responded Lyman , carefully emphasising his words . 
I understand , of course , it was to be approached IN TIME . 
The main point was AN AVERAGE TEN PER CENT . 
Rates WILL be lowered in the San Joaquin . 
The ranchers around Bonneville will be able to ship to Port Costa at equitable rates , but so radical a measure as that cannot be put through in a turn of the hand . 
We must study You KNEW the San Joaquin rate was an issue , shouted Annixter , shaking his finger across the table . 
What do we men who backed you care about rates up in Del Norte and Siskiyou Counties ? Not a whoop in hell . 
It was the San Joaquin rate we were fighting for , and we elected you to reduce that . 
You didn't do it and you don't intend to , and , by the Lord Harry , I want to know why . 
You'll know , sir began Lyman . 
Well , I'll tell you why , vociferated Osterman . 
It's because we have been sold out . 
It's because the P. and S. W. have had their spoon in this boiling . 
It's because our commissioners have betrayed us . 
It's because we're a set of damn fool farmers and have been cinched again . 
Lyman paled under his dark skin at the direct attack . 
He evidently had not expected this so soon . 
For the fraction of one instant he lost his poise . 
He strove to speak , but caught his breath , stammering . 
What have you to say , then ? cried Harran , who , until now , had not spoken . 
I have this to say , answered Lyman , making head as best he might , that this is no proper spirit in which to discuss business . 
The Commission has fulfilled its obligations . 
It has adjusted rates to the best of its ability . 
We have been at work for two months on the preparation of this schedule That's a lie , shouted Annixter , his face scarlet that's a lie . 
That schedule was drawn in the offices of the Pacific and Southwestern and you know it . 
It's a scheme of rates made for the Railroad and by the Railroad and you were bought over to put your name to it . 
There was a concerted outburst at the words . 
All the men in the room were on their feet , gesticulating and vociferating . 
Gentlemen , gentlemen , cried Magnus , are we schoolboys , are we ruffians of the street ? We're a set of fool farmers and we've been betrayed , cried Osterman . 
Well , what have you to say ? What have you to say ? persisted Harran , leaning across the table toward his brother . 
For God's sake , Lyman , you've got SOME explanation . 
You've misunderstood , protested Lyman , white and trembling . 
Next year , next year , soon now , the Commission will take up the the Commission will consider the San Joaquin rate . 
We've done our best , that is all . 
Have you , sir ? demanded Magnus . 
The Governor's head was in a whirl a sensation , almost of faintness , had seized upon him . 
Was it possible ? Was it possible ? Have you done your best ? For a second he compelled Lyman's eye . 
The glances of father and son met , and , in spite of his best efforts , Lyman's eyes wavered . 
He began to protest once more , explaining the matter over again from the beginning . 
But Magnus did not listen . 
In that brief lapse of time he was convinced that the terrible thing had happened , that the unbelievable had come to pass . 
It was in the air . 
Between father and son , in some subtle fashion , the truth that was a lie stood suddenly revealed . 
But even then Magnus would not receive it . 
Lyman , he said , I adjure you I I demand of you as you are my son and an honourable man , explain yourself . 
What is there behind all this ? It is no longer as Chairman of the Committee I speak to you , you a member of the Railroad Commission . 
It is your father who speaks , and I address you as my son . 
Do you understand the gravity of this crisis do you realise the responsibility of your position do you not see the importance of this moment ? Explain yourself . 
There is nothing to explain . 
You have not reduced rates in the San Joaquin ? You have not reduced rates between Bonneville and tidewater ? I repeat , sir , what I said before . 
An average ten per cent . 
cut Lyman , answer me , yes or no . 
Have you reduced the Bonneville rate ? It could not be done so soon . 
Were you paid by the Railroad to leave the San Joaquin rate untouched ? Lyman , whiter than ever , turned furious upon his brother . 
Don't you dare put that question to me again . 
No , I won't , cried Harran , because I'll TELL you to your villain's face that you WERE paid to do it . 
On the instant the clamour burst forth afresh . 
Still on their feet , the ranchers had , little by little , worked around the table , Magnus alone keeping his place . 
The others were in a group before Lyman , crowding him , as it were , to the wall , shouting into his face with menacing gestures . 
The truth that was a lie , the certainty of a trust betrayed , a pledge ruthlessly broken , was plain to every one of them . 
By the Lord ! men have been shot for less than this , cried Osterman . 
You've sold us out , you , and if you ever bring that dago face of yours on a level with mine again , I'll slap it . 
Keep your hands off , exclaimed Lyman quickly , the aggressiveness of the cornered rat flaming up within him . 
Don't you go too far . 
How much were you paid ? How much were you paid ? vociferated Harran . 
Yes , yes , what was your price ? cried the others . 
They were beside themselves with anger their words came harsh from between their set teeth their gestures were made with their fists clenched . 
You know the Commission acted in good faith , retorted Lyman . 
You know that all was fair and above board . 
Liar , shouted Annixter liar , bribe eater . 
You were bought and paid for , and with the words his arm seemed almost of itself to leap out from his shoulder . 
Lyman received the blow squarely in the face and the force of it sent him staggering backwards toward the wall . 
He tripped over his valise and fell half way , his back supported against the closed door of the room . 
His son had been struck , and the instincts of a father rose up in instant protest rose for a moment , then forever died away in his heart . 
He checked the words that flashed to his mind . 
He lowered his upraised arm . 
No , he had but one son . 
The poor , staggering creature with the fine clothes , white face , and blood streaked lips was no longer his . 
A blow could not dishonour him more than he had dishonoured himself . 
But Gethings , the older man , intervened , pulling Annixter back , crying Stop , this won't do . 
I am no father to this man , gentlemen , exclaimed Magnus . 
From now on , I have but one son . 
You , sir , he turned to Lyman , you , sir , leave my house . 
Lyman , his handkerchief to his lips , his smart cravat in disarray , caught up his hat and coat . 
He was shaking with fury , his protruding eyes were blood shot . 
He swung open the door . 
Ruffians , he shouted from the threshold , ruffians , bullies . 
Do your own dirty business yourselves after this . 
How was the Board elected ? I'm a bribe eater , am I ? Is it any worse than GIVING a bribe ? Ask Magnus Derrick what he thinks about that . 
Ask him how much he paid the Democratic bosses at Sacramento to swing the convention . 
He went out , slamming the door . 
The whole affair made him sick at heart , filled him with infinite disgust , infinite weariness . 
He wished to get away from it all . 
He left the dining room and the excited , clamouring men behind him and stepped out on the porch of the ranch house , closing the door behind him . 
Lyman was nowhere in sight . 
Presley stepped to the edge of the porch , looking off to southward . 
And there before him , mile after mile , illimitable , covering the earth from horizon to horizon , lay the Wheat . 
The growth , now many days old , was already high from the ground . 
There in the night , under the dome of the sky , it was growing steadily . 
To Presley's mind , the scene in the room he had just left dwindled to paltry insignificance before this sight . 
V. Jack rabbits were a pest that year and Presley occasionally found amusement in hunting them with Harran's half dozen greyhounds , following the chase on horseback . 
Some twenty men , Annixter's and Osterman's tenants , and small ranchers from east of Guadalajara all members of the League were going through the manual of arms under Harran Derrick's supervision . 
They were all equipped with new Winchester rifles . 
Harran carried one of these himself and with it he illustrated the various commands he gave . 
As soon as one of the men under his supervision became more than usually proficient , he was told off to instruct a file of the more backward . 
Among themselves , the ranchers said that if the Railroad managers did not believe they were terribly in earnest in the stand they had taken , they were making a fatal mistake . 
Harran reasserted this statement to Presley on the way home to the ranch house that same day . 
Harran had caught up with him by the time he reached the Lower Road , and the two jogged homeward through the miles of standing wheat . 
They may jump the ranch , Pres , he said , if they try hard enough , but they will never do it while I am alive . 
By the way , he added , you know we served notices yesterday upon S. Behrman and Cy . 
Ruggles to quit the country . 
Of course , they won't do it , but they won't be able to say they didn't have warning . 
About an hour later , the two reached the ranch house , but as Harran rode up the driveway , he uttered an exclamation . 
Hello , he said , something is up . 
In fact , the editor's team was tied underneath the shade of a giant eucalyptus tree near by . 
Harran , uneasy under this unexpected visit of the enemy's friend , dismounted without stabling his horse , and went at once to the dining room , where visitors were invariably received . 
But the dining room was empty , and his mother told him that Magnus and the editor were in the office . 
Magnus had said they were not to be disturbed . 
The two went into the office , Magnus locking the door behind him . 
Very complete you are here , Governor , observed the editor in his alert , jerky manner , his black , bead like eyes twinkling around the room from behind his glasses . 
Telephone , safe , ticker , account books well , that's progress , isn't it ? Only way to manage a big ranch these days . 
But the day of the big ranch is over . 
As the land appreciates in value , the temptation to sell off small holdings will be too strong . 
And then the small holding can be cultivated to better advantage . 
I shall have an editorial on that some day . 
The cost of maintaining a number of small holdings , said Magnus , indifferently , is , of course , greater than if they were all under one management . 
That may be , that may be , rejoined the other . 
There was a long pause . 
Genslinger leaned back in his chair and rubbed a knee . 
Magnus , standing erect in front of the safe , waited for him to speak . 
This is an unfortunate business , Governor , began the editor , this misunderstanding between the ranchers and the Railroad . 
I wish it could be adjusted . 
HERE are two industries that MUST be in harmony with one another , or we all go to pot . 
I should prefer not to be interviewed on the subject , Mr. Genslinger , said Magnus . 
Oh , no , oh , no . 
Lord love you , Governor , I don't want to interview you . 
We all know how you stand . 
Again there was a long silence . 
Magnus wondered what this little man , usually so garrulous , could want of him . 
At length , Genslinger began again . 
He did not look at Magnus , except at long intervals . 
About the present Railroad Commission , he remarked . 
That was an interesting campaign you conducted in Sacramento and San Francisco . 
Magnus held his peace , his hands shut tight . 
I watched it with every degree of interest . 
I saw its every phase , Mr. Derrick . 
The campaign was not without its interest , admitted Magnus . 
Now , THAT I should say , Mr. Derrick , was the most interesting move in the whole game to you . 
Hm , curious , he murmured , musingly . 
Now , I call that interesting curious , because it's a new , safe , and highly ingenious method of bribery . 
How did you happen to think of it , Governor ? Do you know what you are doing , sir ? Magnus burst forth . 
Do you know what you are insinuating , here , in my own house ? Why , Governor , returned the editor , blandly , I'm not INSINUATING anything . 
I'm talking about what I KNOW . 
Genslinger rubbed his chin reflectively . 
Well , he answered , you can have a chance to prove it before the Grand Jury , if you want to . 
My character is known all over the State , blustered Magnus . 
My politics are pure politics . 
I can put my hand on the two chairmen you bought before it's dark to day . 
I've had their depositions in my safe for the last six weeks . 
We could make the arrests to morrow , if we wanted . 
Governor , you sure did a risky thing when you went into that Sacramento fight , an awful risky thing . 
Magnus took it in his hands . 
It was pitiless , remorseless , bald . 
Every statement was substantiated , every statistic verified with Genslinger's meticulous love for exactness . 
Besides all that , it had the ring of truth . 
It was exposure , ruin , absolute annihilation . 
That's about correct , isn't it ? commented Genslinger , as Derrick finished reading . 
I think it is correct enough , the editor continued . 
But I thought it would only be fair to you to let you see it before it was published . 
By an effort that put all his iron rigidity to the test , he forced himself to look straight into Genslinger's eyes . 
I congratulate you , he observed , handing back the proof , upon your journalistic enterprise . 
Your paper will sell to morrow . 
Oh , I don't know as I want to publish this story , remarked the editor , indifferently , putting away the galley . 
The fun for me is running a good story to earth , but once I've got it , I lose interest . 
It's worth more to you to keep it out of print than for me to put it in . 
I've got nothing much to gain but a few extra editions , but you Lord , you would lose everything . 
Your committee was in the deal right enough . 
But your League , all the San Joaquin Valley , everybody in the State believes the commissioners were fairly elected . 
Your story , suddenly exclaimed Magnus , struck with an idea , will be thoroughly discredited just so soon as the new grain tariff is published . 
I have means of knowing that the San Joaquin rate the issue upon which the board was elected is not to be touched . 
Is it likely the ranchers would secure the election of a board that plays them false ? Oh , we know all about that , answered Genslinger , smiling . 
You thought you were electing Lyman easily . 
You thought you had got the Railroad to walk right into your trap . 
You didn't understand how you could pull off your deal so easily . 
Why , Governor , LYMAN WAS PLEDGED TO THE RAILROAD TWO YEARS AGO . 
He was THE ONE PARTICULAR man the corporation wanted for commissioner . 
And your people elected him saved the Railroad all the trouble of campaigning for him . 
And you can't make any counter charge of bribery there . 
No , sir , the corporation don't use such amateurish methods as that . 
It's too bad , he continued , dropping his voice , and changing his position . 
It really is too bad to see good men trying to bunt a stone wall over with their bare heads . 
You couldn't have won at any stage of the game . 
I wish I could have talked to you and your friends before you went into that Sacramento fight . 
I could have told you then how little chance you had . 
When will you people realise that you can't buck against the Railroad ? Why , Magnus , it's like me going out in a paper boat and shooting peas at a battleship . 
Is that all you wished to see me about , Mr. Genslinger ? remarked Magnus , bestirring himself . 
I am rather occupied to day . 
Well , returned the other , you know what the publication of this article would mean for you . 
He paused again , took off his glasses , breathed on them , polished the lenses with his handkerchief and readjusted them on his nose . 
I've been thinking , Governor , he began again , with renewed alertness , and quite irrelevantly , of enlarging the scope of the Mercury . 
I want to illustrate the paper . 
But it takes money to make money . 
I wouldn't want to put in any dinky , one horse affair . 
I want a good plant . 
I've been figuring out the business . 
Besides the plant , there would be the expense of a high grade paper . 
Can't print half tones on anything but coated paper , and that COSTS . 
Say five thousand down , and the balance within sixty days . 
Magnus , for the moment blind to what Genslinger had in mind , turned on him in astonishment . 
Why , man , what security could you give me for such an amount ? Well , to tell the truth , answered the editor , I hadn't thought much about securities . 
In fact , I believed you would see how greatly it was to your advantage to talk business with me . 
You understand ? Magnus understood . 
But in the same moment the Governor realised this was not to be . 
Only its righteousness had made his wrath terrible only the justice of his anger had made him feared . 
Now the foundation was gone from under his feet he had knocked it away himself . 
Three times feeble was he whose quarrel was unjust . 
Before this country editor , this paid speaker of the Railroad , he stood , convicted . 
The man had him at his mercy . 
The detected briber could not resent an insult . 
Genslinger rose , smoothing his hat . 
Well , he said , of course , you want time to think it over , and you can't raise money like that on short notice . 
I'll wait till Friday noon of this week . 
We begin to set Saturday's paper at about four , Friday afternoon , and the forms are locked about two in the morning . 
I hope , he added , turning back at the door of the room , that you won't find anything disagreeable in your Saturday morning 'Mercury , Mr. Derrick . 
He went out , closing the door behind him , and in a moment , Magnus heard the wheels of his buckboard grating on the driveway . 
The following morning brought a letter to Magnus from Gethings , of the San Pueblo ranch , which was situated very close to Visalia . 
But to refer , continued the letter , to a most painful recollection . 
These charges , my dear Mr. Derrick , were directed at yourself . 
How the secrets of the committee have been noised about , I cannot understand . 
You may be , of course , assured of my own unquestioning confidence and loyalty . 
I think it would be well to write as though the initiative came , not from me , but from yourself , ignoring this present letter . 
I offer this only as a suggestion , and will confidently endorse any decision you may arrive at . 
The letter closed with renewed protestations of confidence . 
Magnus was alone when he read this . 
He put it carefully away in the filing cabinet in his office , and wiped the sweat from his forehead and face . 
He stood for one moment , his hands rigid at his sides , his fists clinched . 
This is piling up , he muttered , looking blankly at the opposite wall . 
My God , this is piling up . 
What am I to do ? Ah , the bitterness of unavailing regret , the anguish of compromise with conscience , the remorse of a bad deed done in a moment of excitement . 
Magnus kept to himself , seeing no visitors , avoiding even his family . 
But the plague spot was in himself , knitted forever into the fabric of his being . 
There was no success for him now . 
However conspicuous the outward achievement , he , he himself , Magnus Derrick , had failed , miserably and irredeemably . 
Petty , material complications intruded , sordid considerations . 
All along he had been relying upon a bonanza crop to reimburse him . 
It was not believable that the Railroad would jump Los Muertos , but if this should happen , he would be left without resources . 
Ten thousand dollars ! Could he raise the amount ? Possibly . 
He , Magnus , would brave it out . 
Was not his character above suspicion ? Was it ? This letter of Gethings's . 
Already the murmur of uneasiness made itself heard . 
Investigation ! There was terror in the word . 
He could not stand investigation . 
Magnus groaned aloud , covering his head with his clasped hands . 
hazarding all , even honour , on a single stake , taking great chances to achieve great results , swept away the work of a lifetime . 
Gambler that he was , he had at last chanced his highest stake , his personal honour , in the greatest game of his life , and had lost . 
It was Presley's morbidly keen observation that first noticed the evidence of a new trouble in the Governor's face and manner . 
Presley was sure that Lyman's defection had not so upset him . 
His attitude towards his prodigal son was that of stern , unrelenting resentment . 
But now , Presley could not fail to detect traces of a more deep seated travail . 
Something was in the wind . 
He hastened to get up and dress . 
There was much to be done that day . 
Until late the night before , he had been at work on a collection of some of his verses , gathered from the magazines in which they had first appeared . 
Presley had received a liberal offer for the publication of these verses in book form . 
The Toilers was to be included in this book , and , indeed , was to give it its name The Toilers and Other Poems . 
Thus it was that , until the previous midnight , he had been preparing the collection for publication , revising , annotating , arranging . 
The book was to be sent off that morning . 
But also Presley had received a typewritten note from Annixter , inviting him to Quien Sabe that same day . 
Annixter explained that it was Hilma's birthday , and that he had planned a picnic on the high ground of his ranch , at the headwaters of Broderson Creek . 
They were to go in the carry all , Hilma , Presley , Mrs. Dyke , Sidney , and himself , and were to make a day of it . 
They would leave Quien Sabe at ten in the morning . 
Presley had at once resolved to go . 
He was immensely fond of Annixter more so than ever since his marriage with Hilma and the astonishing transformation of his character . 
Hilma , as well , was delightful as Mrs. Annixter and Mrs. Dyke and the little tad had always been his friends . 
He would have a good time . 
But nobody was to go into Bonneville that morning with the mail , and if he wished to send his manuscript , he would have to take it in himself . 
He had resolved to do this , getting an early start , and going on horseback to Quien Sabe , by way of Bonneville . 
It was barely six o'clock when Presley sat down to his coffee and eggs in the dining room of Los Muertos . 
Harran joined him at breakfast , in his working clothes of blue canvas . 
He was bound for the irrigating ditch to see how the work was getting on there . 
How is the wheat looking ? asked Presley . 
Bully , answered the other , stirring his coffee . 
The Governor has had his usual luck . 
Practically , every acre of the ranch was sown to wheat , and everywhere the stand is good . 
I was over on Two , day before yesterday , and if nothing happens , I believe it will go thirty sacks to the acre there . 
Cutter reports that there are spots on Four where we will get forty two or three . 
Hooven , too , brought up some wonderful fine ears for me to look at . 
The grains were just beginning to show . 
Some of the ears carried twenty grains . 
That means nearly forty bushels of wheat to every acre . 
I call it a bonanza year . 
Have you got any mail ? said Presley , rising . 
Harran shook his head , and took himself away , and Presley went down to the stable corral to get his pony . 
As he rode out of the stable yard and passed by the ranch house , on the driveway , he was surprised to see Magnus on the lowest step of the porch . 
Good morning , Governor , called Presley . 
Aren't you up pretty early ? Good morning , Pres , my boy . 
The Governor came forward and , putting his hand on the pony's withers , walked along by his side . 
Going to town , Pres ? he asked . 
Can I do anything for you , Governor ? Magnus drew a sealed envelope from his pocket . 
I wish you would drop in at the office of the Mercury for me , he said , and see Mr. Genslinger personally , and give him this envelope . 
It is a package of papers , but they involve a considerable sum of money , and you must be careful of them . 
A few years ago , when our enmity was not so strong , Mr. Genslinger and I had some business dealings with each other . 
I thought it as well just now , considering that we are so openly opposed , to terminate the whole affair , and break off relations . 
We came to a settlement a few days ago . 
These are the final papers . 
They must be given to him in person , Presley . 
Presley cantered on , turning into the county road and holding northward by the mammoth watering tank and Broderson's popular windbreak . 
As he passed Caraher's , he saw the saloon keeper in the doorway of his place , and waved him a salutation which the other returned . 
By degrees , Presley had come to consider Caraher in a more favourable light . 
It invested the saloon keeper , in Presley's imagination , with all the dignity of the tragedy . 
He could not blame Caraher for being a red . 
He even wondered how it was the saloon keeper had not put his theories into practice , and adjusted his ancient wrong with his six inches of plugged gas pipe . 
Presley began to conceive of the man as a character . 
You wait , Mr. Presley , the saloon keeper had once said , when Presley had protested against his radical ideas . 
You don't know the Railroad yet . 
Watch it and its doings long enough , and you'll come over to my way of thinking , too . 
It was about half past seven when Presley reached Bonneville . 
The business part of the town was as yet hardly astir he despatched his manuscript , and then hurried to the office of the Mercury . 
Presley was hardly courteous to the little man , and abruptly refused his offer of a drink . 
He delivered Magnus's envelope to him and departed . 
Presley arrived at Quien Sabe nearly half an hour behind the appointed time but , as he had expected , the party were in no way ready to start . 
The carry all , its horses covered with white fly nets , stood under a tree near the house , young Vacca dozing on the seat . 
Hilma and Sidney , the latter exuberant with a gayety that all but brought the tears to Presley's eyes , were making sandwiches on the back porch . 
Mrs. Dyke was nowhere to be seen , and Annixter was shaving himself in his bedroom . 
This latter put a half lathered face out of the window as Presley cantered through the gate , and waved his razor with a beckoning motion . 
Come on in , Pres , he cried . 
You're hours ahead of time . 
Presley came into the bedroom , his huge spur clinking on the straw matting . 
Annixter was without coat , vest or collar , his blue silk suspenders hung in loops over either hip , his hair was disordered , the crown lock stiffer than ever . 
Glad to see you , old boy , he announced , as Presley came in . 
No , don't shake hands , I'm all lather . 
Here , find a chair , will you ? I won't be long . 
I thought you said ten o'clock , observed Presley , sitting down on the edge of the bed . 
Well , I did , but But , then again , in a way , you didn't , hey ? his friend interrupted . 
Annixter grunted good humouredly , and turned to strop his razor . 
Presley looked with suspicious disfavour at his suspenders . 
Why is it , he observed , that as soon as a man is about to get married , he buys himself pale blue suspenders , silk ones ? Think of it . 
You , Buck Annixter , with sky blue , silk suspenders . 
It ought to be a strap and a nail . 
Old fool , observed Annixter , whose repartee was the heaving of brick bats . 
Say , he continued , holding the razor from his face , and jerking his head over his shoulder , while he looked at Presley's reflection in his mirror say , look around . 
Isn't this a nifty little room ? We refitted the whole house , you know . 
Notice she's all painted ? I have been looking around , answered Presley , sweeping the room with a series of glances . 
Annixter was so boyishly proud of the effect that it would have been unkind to have undeceived him . 
Say , how about those paintings , Pres ? inquired Annixter a little uneasily . 
I don't know whether they're good or not . 
They were painted by a three fingered Chinaman in Monterey , and I got the lot for thirty dollars , frames thrown in . 
Why , I think the frames alone are worth thirty dollars . 
Well , so do I , declared Presley . 
He hastened to change the subject . 
Buck , he said , I hear you've brought Mrs. Dyke and Sidney to live with you . 
You know , I think that's rather white of you . 
Oh , rot , Pres , muttered Annixter , turning abruptly to his shaving . 
And you can't fool me , either , old man , Presley continued . 
You're giving this picnic as much for Mrs. Dyke and the little tad as you are for your wife , just to cheer them up a bit . 
Oh , pshaw , you make me sick . 
Well , that's the right thing to do , Buck , and I'm as glad for your sake as I am for theirs . 
There was a time when you would have let them all go to grass , and never so much as thought of them . 
I don't want to seem to be officious , but you've changed for the better , old man , and I guess I know why . 
She Presley caught his friend's eye , and added gravely , She's a good woman , Buck . 
Annixter turned around abruptly , his face flushing under its lather . 
Pres , he exclaimed , she's made a man of me . 
And I began to see that a fellow can't live FOR himself any more than he can live BY himself . 
He's got to think of others . 
That ain't much of a religion , but it's the best I've got , and Henry Ward Beecher couldn't do any more than that . 
And it's all come about because of Hilma , and because we cared for each other . 
Presley jumped up , and caught Annixter about the shoulders with one arm , gripping his hand hard . 
This absurd figure , with dangling silk suspenders , lathered chin , and tearful eyes , seemed to be suddenly invested with true nobility . 
You're all RIGHT , old man , he exclaimed , unable to think of anything adequate . 
That's the way to talk , and here , by the way , I brought you a box of cigars . 
Annixter stared as Presley laid the box on the edge of the washstand . 
Old fool , he remarked , what in hell did you do that for ? Oh , just for fun . 
I suppose they're rotten stinkodoras , or you wouldn't give 'em away . 
This cringing gratitude Presley began . 
Shut up , shouted Annixter , and the incident was closed . 
Annixter resumed his shaving , and Presley lit a cigarette . 
Any news from Washington ? he queried . 
Nothing that's any good , grunted Annixter . 
Hello , he added , raising his head , there's somebody in a hurry for sure . 
The noise of a horse galloping so fast that the hoof beats sounded in one uninterrupted rattle , abruptly made itself heard . 
The noise was coming from the direction of the road that led from the Mission to Quien Sabe . 
With incredible swiftness , the hoof beats drew nearer . 
There was that in their sound which brought Presley to his feet . 
Annixter threw open the window . 
Annixter , with thoughts of the Railroad , and the Jumping of the ranch , flung his hand to his hip pocket . 
What is it , Vacca ? he cried . 
Young Vacca , turning in his seat in the carryall , was looking up the road . 
All at once , he jumped from his place , and dashed towards the window . 
Oh , my God ! cried Presley . 
The ex engineer threw the horse on its haunches , springing from the saddle and , as he did so , the beast collapsed , shuddering , to the ground . 
Annixter sprang from the window , and ran forward , Presley following . 
There was Dyke , hatless , his pistol in his hand , a gaunt terrible figure the beard immeasurably long , the cheeks fallen in , the eyes sunken . 
Annixter , he shouted , and again , rolling his sunken eyes , Annixter , Annixter ! Here , here , cried Annixter . 
The other turned , levelling his pistol . 
Give me a horse , give me a horse , quick , do you hear ? Give me a horse , or I'll shoot . 
You know me , Dyke . 
The other lowered his weapon . 
I know , I know , he panted . 
I'm unstrung , Mr. Annixter , and I'm running for my life . 
They're not ten minutes behind me . 
Come on , come on , shouted Annixter , dashing stablewards , his suspenders flying . 
He wouldn't carry you a mile . 
Annixter was already far ahead , trumpeting orders . 
The buckskin , he yelled . 
Get her out , Billy . 
Where's the stable man ? Get out that buckskin . 
Want anything to eat ? Annixter's head was under the saddle flap as he tore at the cinch . 
Want anything to eat ? Want any money ? Want a gun ? Water , returned Dyke . 
I got as far as the Kern River , but they turned me back , he said between breaths as he drank . 
My mother , and the little tad I'm taking care of them . 
Here ? You won't see 'em by the Lord , you won't . 
Where's that back cinch strap , BILLY ? God damn it , are you going to let him be shot before he can get away ? Now , Dyke , up you go . 
She'll kill herself running before they can catch you . 
God bless you , Annixter . 
Where's the little tad ? Is she well , Annixter , and the mother ? Tell them Yes , yes , yes . 
All clear , Pres ? Let her have her own gait , Dyke . 
You're on the best horse in the county now . 
Let go her head , Billy . 
Now , Dyke , shake hands ? You bet I will . 
Yes , God bless you . 
With the agility of a monkey , young Vacca swung himself into the framework of the artesian well , clambering aloft to its very top . 
He swept the country with a glance . 
Well ? demanded Annixter from the ground . 
The others cocked their heads to listen . 
I see him I see him ! shouted Vacca . 
He's going like the devil . 
Look back , up the road , toward the Mission . 
Anything there ? The answer came down in a shout of apprehension . 
There's a party of men . 
Three or four on horse back . 
Oh , I can hear the dogs . 
And , say , oh , say , there's another party coming down the Lower Road , going towards Guadalajara , too . 
I can see the shine of the barrels . 
And , oh , Lord , say , there's three more men on horses coming down on the jump from the hills on the Los Muertos stock range . 
And I can hear the courthouse bell in Bonneville ringing . 
Say , the whole county is up . 
They were grey with dust , their noses were to the ground . 
At the gate where Dyke had turned into the ranch house grounds , they halted in confusion a moment . 
He tossed his head in the air , and Presley abruptly shut his hands over his ears . 
Ah , that terrible cry ! deep toned , reverberating like the bourdon of a great bell . 
But close upon the bay of the hounds , came the gallop of horses . 
That was Delaney's gang , exclaimed Annixter . 
The other was that chap Christian , said Vacca , S. Behrman's cousin . 
He had two deputies with him and the chap in the white slouch hat was the sheriff from Visalia . 
By the Lord , they aren't far behind , declared Annixter . 
As the men turned towards the house again they saw Hilma and Mrs. Dyke in the doorway of the little house where the latter lived . 
They were looking out , bewildered , ignorant of what had happened . 
But on the porch of the Ranch house itself , alone , forgotten in the excitement , Sidney the little tad stood , with pale face and serious , wide open eyes . 
She had seen everything , and had understood . 
Her head inclined towards the roadway , she listened to the faint and distant baying of the dogs . 
Dyke thundered across the railway tracks by the depot at Guadalajara not five minutes ahead of his pursuers . 
Luck seemed to have deserted him . 
It was useless now to regret that he had tried to foil pursuit by turning back on his tracks to regain the mountains east of Bonneville . 
Now Delaney was almost on him . 
To distance that posse , was the only thing to be thought of now . 
Now it was life or death . 
He would either escape or be killed . 
He knew very well that he would never allow himself to be taken alive . 
But he had no mind to be killed to turn and fight till escape was blocked . 
His one thought was to leave pursuit behind . 
Weeks of flight had sharpened Dyke's every sense . 
As he turned into the Upper Road beyond Guadalajara , he saw the three men galloping down from Derrick's stock range , making for the road ahead of him . 
They would cut him off there . 
He swung the buckskin about . 
He must take the Lower Road across Los Muertos from Guadalajara , and he must reach it before Delaney's dogs and posse . 
Back he galloped , the buckskin measuring her length with every leap . 
Once more the station came in sight . 
Rising in his stirrups , he looked across the fields in the direction of the Lower Road . 
There was a cloud of dust there . 
From a wagon ? No , horses on the run , and their riders were armed ! He could catch the flash of gun barrels . 
They were all closing in on him , converging on Guadalajara by every available road . 
The Upper Road west of Guadalajara led straight to Bonneville . 
Delaney's dogs were already to be heard , and the roll of hoofs on the Lower Road was dinning in his ears , as he leaped from the buckskin before the depot . 
The train crew scattered like frightened sheep before him , but Dyke ignored them . 
His pistol was in his hand as , once more on foot , he sprang toward the lone engine . 
Out of the cab , he shouted . 
Quick , or I'll kill you both . 
The great compound hissed and trembled as the steam was released , and the huge drivers stirred , turning slowly on the tracks . 
But there was a shout . 
Delaney's posse , dogs and men , swung into view at the turn of the road , their figures leaning over as they took the curve at full speed . 
Dyke threw everything wide open and caught up his revolver . 
From behind came the challenge of a Winchester . 
The party on the Lower Road were even closer than Delaney . 
They had seen his manoeuvre , and the first shot of the fight shivered the cab windows above the engineer's head . 
But spinning futilely at first , the drivers of the engine at last caught the rails . 
The engine moved , advanced , travelled past the depot and the freight train , and gathering speed , rolled out on the track beyond . 
Already it was lessening in the distance , when Delaney , Christian , and the sheriff of Visalia dashed up to the station . 
The posse had seen everything . 
Curse the luck ! vociferated the cow Puncher . 
But the sheriff was already out of the saddle and into the telegraph office . 
There's a derailing switch between here and Pixley , isn't there ? he cried . 
Wire ahead to open it . 
Come on he turned to Delaney and the others . 
They sprang into the cab of the locomotive that was attached to the freight train . 
Name of the State of California , shouted the sheriff to the bewildered engineer . 
Cut off from your train . 
The sheriff was a man to be obeyed without hesitating . 
I remember perfectly well there's a derailing switch between here and Pixley , shouted the sheriff above the roar of the locomotive . 
They use it in case they have to derail runaway engines . 
It runs right off into the country . 
We'll pile him up there . 
Ready with your guns , boys . 
If we should meet another train coming up on this track protested the frightened engineer . 
Then we'd jump or be smashed . 
Hi ! look ! There he is . 
As the freight engine rounded a curve , Dyke's engine came into view , shooting on some quarter of a mile ahead of them , wreathed in whirling smoke . 
The switch ain't much further on , clamoured the engineer . 
You can see Pixley now . 
Dyke , his hand on the grip of the valve that controlled the steam , his head out of the cab window , thundered on . 
He found himself settling to the old position on the cab seat , leaning on his elbow from the window , one hand on the controller . 
All at once , the instinct of the pursuit that of late had become so strong within him , prompted him to shoot a glance behind . 
He saw the other engine on the down line , plunging after him , rocking from side to side with the fury of its gallop . 
Not yet had he shaken the trackers from his heels not yet was he out of the reach of danger . 
He set his teeth and , throwing open the fire door , stoked vigorously for a few moments . 
The indicator of the steam gauge rose his speed increased a glance at the telegraph poles told him he was doing his fifty miles an hour . 
The freight engine behind him was never built for that pace . 
Barring the terrible risk of accident , his chances were good . 
But suddenly the engineer dominating the highway man he shut off his steam and threw back his brake to the extreme notch . 
Directly ahead of him rose a semaphore , placed at a point where evidently a derailing switch branched from the line . 
The semaphore's arm was dropped over the track , setting the danger signal that showed the switch was open . 
In an instant , Dyke saw the trick . 
To go forward was certain destruction . 
There was nothing for it but to go back . 
With a wrench and a spasm of all its metal fibres , the great compound braced itself , sliding with rigid wheels along the rails . 
Then , as Dyke applied the reverse , it drew back from the greater danger , returning towards the less . 
Inevitably now the two engines , one on the up , the other on the down line , must meet and pass each other . 
Dyke released the levers , reaching for his revolver . 
The engineer once more became the highwayman , in peril of his life . 
Now , beyond all doubt , the time for fighting was at hand . 
Watch , now , and see if he jumps off . 
Ready , now , he's got to pass us . 
The engineer applied the brakes , but the heavy freight locomotive , far less mobile than Dyke's flyer , was slow to obey . 
The smudge on the rails ahead grew swiftly larger . 
He's coming look out , there's a shot . 
A bright , white sliver of wood leaped into the air from the sooty window sill of the cab . 
Then the ground trembled and rocked a roar as of heavy ordnance developed with the abruptness of an explosion . 
He's hit , cried Delaney . 
I know I hit him . 
He can't go far now . 
He won't dare go through Bonneville . 
How serious was the wound he did not know , but he had no thought of giving up . 
But to go on to Bonneville meant certain death . 
Before , as well as behind him , the roads were now blocked . 
Once more he thought of the mountains . 
He resolved to abandon the engine and make another final attempt to get into the shelter of the hills in the northernmost corner of Quien Sabe . 
He would not give in . 
There was one more fight left in him yet . 
Now to try the final hope . 
He slowed the engine down , and , reloading his revolver , jumped from the platform to the road . 
He looked about him , listening . 
All around him widened an ocean of wheat . 
There was no one in sight . 
The released engine , alone , unattended , drew slowly away from him , jolting ponderously over the rail joints . 
As he watched it go , a certain indefinite sense of abandonment , even in that moment , came over Dyke . 
His last friend , that also had been his first , was leaving him . 
He remembered that day , long ago , when he had opened the throttle of his first machine . 
To day , it was leaving him alone , his last friend turning against him . 
Slowly it was going back towards Bonneville , to the shops of the Railroad , the camp of the enemy , that enemy that had ruined him and wrecked him . 
For the last time in his life , he had been the engineer . 
Now , once more , he became the highwayman , the outlaw against whom all hands were raised , the fugitive skulking in the mountains , listening for the cry of dogs . 
But he would not give in . 
They had not broken him yet . 
Never , while he could fight , would he allow S. Behrman the triumph of his capture . 
He found his wound was not bad . 
He plunged into the wheat on Quien Sabe , making northward for a division house that rose with its surrounding trees out of the wheat like an island . 
He reached it , the blood squelching in his shoes . 
But the sight of two men , Portuguese farm hands , staring at him from an angle of the barn , abruptly roused him to action . 
He sprang forward with peremptory commands , demanding a horse . 
At Guadalajara , Delaney and the sheriff descended from the freight engine . 
Horses now , declared the sheriff . 
He won't go into Bonneville , that's certain . 
He'll leave the engine between here and there , and strike off into the country . 
We'll follow after him now in the saddle . 
Soon as he leaves his engine , HE'S on foot . 
We've as good as got him now . 
Their horses , including even the buckskin mare that Dyke had ridden , were still at the station . 
The party swung themselves up , Delaney exclaiming , Here's MY mount , as he bestrode the buckskin . 
At Guadalajara , the two bloodhounds were picked up again . 
Urging the jaded horses to a gallop , the party set off along the Upper Road , keeping a sharp lookout to right and left for traces of Dyke's abandonment of the engine . 
The engine passed me on the tracks further up , and empty , said S. Behrman . 
Boys , I think he left her here . 
But before anyone could answer , the bloodhounds gave tongue again , as they picked up the scent . 
That's him , cried S. Behrman . 
They dashed forward , following the hounds . 
What a day , he murmured . 
Dyke's trail was fresh , and was followed as easily as if made on new fallen snow . 
In a short time , the posse swept into the open space around the division house . 
The two Portuguese were still there , wide eyed , terribly excited . 
S. Behrman jolted along far in the rear . 
And even then , harried through an open country , where there was no place to hide , it was a matter of amazement how long a chase the highwayman led them . 
Fences were passed fences whose barbed wire had been slashed apart by the fugitive's knife . 
The ground rose under foot the hills were at hand still the pursuit held on . 
The sun , long past the meridian , began to turn earthward . 
Suddenly , every member of the party shouted aloud . 
The horse had fallen , pitching the rider from the saddle . 
The man rose to his feet , caught at the bridle , missed it and the horse dashed on alone . 
The man , pausing for a second looked around , saw the chase drawing nearer , then , turning back , disappeared in the chaparral . 
Delaney raised a great whoop . 
Into the slopes and valleys of the hills dashed the band of horsemen , the trail now so fresh that it could be easily discerned by all . 
On and on it led them , a furious , wild scramble straight up the slopes . 
You're under arrest , Dyke , cried the sheriff . 
It's not the least use to fight . 
The whole country is up . 
Dyke fired again , the shot splintering the foreleg of the horse the sheriff rode . 
On that rugged ground , fighting from the saddle was impracticable . 
Dyke , in the meanwhile , held his fire , for he knew that , once his pistol was empty , he would never be allowed time to reload . 
Dyke , called the sheriff again , for the last time , I summon you to surrender . 
The sheriff , Delaney , and the man named Christian conferred together in a low voice . 
Then Delaney and Christian left the others , making a wide detour up the sides of the arroyo , to gain a position to the left and somewhat to the rear of Dyke . 
But it was at this moment that S. Behrman arrived . 
It could not be said whether it was courage or carelessness that brought the Railroad's agent within reach of Dyke's revolver . 
Suddenly , inviting death , he leaped up and forward he had forgotten all else , all other considerations , at the sight of this man . 
He would die , gladly , so only that S. Behrman died before him . 
I've got YOU , anyway , he shouted , as he ran forward . 
The muzzle of the weapon was not ten feet from S. Behrman's huge stomach as Dyke drew the trigger . 
Had the cartridge exploded , death , certain and swift , would have followed , but at this , of all moments , the revolver missed fire . 
S. Behrman , with an unexpected agility , leaped from the saddle , and , keeping his horse between him and Dyke , ran , dodging and ducking , from tree to tree . 
His first shot a failure , Dyke fired again and again at his enemy , emptying his revolver , reckless of consequences . 
His every shot went wild , and before he could draw his knife , the whole posse was upon him . 
It was Dyke alive they wanted . 
One of them had a riata snatched from a saddle pommel , and with this they tried to bind him . 
Now he was down , pinned under , two men across his legs , and now half way up again , struggling to one knee . 
Then upright again , with half his enemies hanging on his back . 
His colossal strength seemed doubled when his arms were held , he fought bull like with his head . 
The sheriff , under his breath , uttered an exclamation By God , he'll get away yet . 
S. Behrman watched the fight complacently . 
That all may show obstinacy , he commented , but it don't show common sense . 
At length , two of the men managed to bring Dyke's wrists close enough together to allow the sheriff to snap the handcuffs on . 
But he could no longer protect himself from attacks from behind , and the riata was finally passed around his body , pinioning his arms to his sides . 
After this it was useless to resist . 
The wounded deputy sat with his back to a rock , holding his broken jaw in both hands . 
The sheriff's horse , with its splintered foreleg , would have to be shot . 
Delaney's head was cut from temple to cheekbone . 
The right wrist of the sheriff was all but dislocated . 
The other deputy was so exhausted he had to be helped to his horse . 
He himself had suddenly lapsed into semi unconsciousness , unable to walk . 
They sat him on the buckskin , S. Behrman supporting him , the sheriff , on foot , leading the horse by the bridle . 
The little procession formed , and descended from the hills , turning in the direction of Bonneville . 
A special train , one car and an engine , would be made up there , and the highwayman would sleep in the Visalia jail that night . 
Delaney and S. Behrman found themselves in the rear of the cavalcade as it moved off . 
The cow puncher turned to his chief Well , captain , he said , still panting , as he bound up his forehead well we GOT him . 
VI Osterman cut his wheat that summer before any of the other ranchers , and as soon as his harvest was over organized a jack rabbit drive . 
Like Annixter's barn dance , it was to be an event in which all the country side should take part . 
That's almost as thin , muttered Harran as he thrust the bit into his horse's mouth . 
as Delaney buying Annixter's Home ranch . 
Why , those people don't even try to preserve appearances . 
Where would Christian find the money to buy Los Muertos ? There's no one man in all Bonneville rich enough to do it . 
Damned rascals ! as if we didn't see that Christian and Delaney are S. Behrman's right and left hands . 
Well , he'll get 'em cut off , he cried with sudden fierceness , if he comes too near the machine . 
It's the rottenest kind of sharp practice , but it won't do any good . 
The League is too strong . 
They won't dare move on us yet awhile . 
Why , Pres , the moment they'd try to jump any of these ranches around here , they would have six hundred rifles cracking at them as quick as how do you do . 
Why , it would take a regiment of U. S. soldiers to put any one of us off our land . 
No , sir they know the League means business this time . 
Many of these latter had already taken off their bonnets the day was very hot and pinning them in newspapers , stowed them under the seats . 
They tucked their handkerchiefs into the collars of their dresses , or knotted them about their fat necks , to keep out the dust . 
From the axle trees of the vehicles swung carefully covered buckets of galvanised iron , in which the lunch was packed . 
Tied to the axles , the dogs followed the horses' hoofs with lolling tongues coated with dust . 
The California summer lay blanket wise and smothering over all the land . 
The hills , bone dry , were browned and parched . 
The grasses and wild oats , sear and yellow , snapped like glass filaments under foot . 
The roads , the bordering fences , even the lower leaves and branches of the trees , were thick and grey with dust . 
All colour had been burned from the landscape , except in the irrigated patches , that in the waste of brown and dull yellow glowed like oases . 
The wheat , now close to its maturity , had turned from pale yellow to golden yellow , and from that to brown . 
Like a gigantic carpet , it spread itself over all the land . 
As Harran and Presley went along the county road , the number of vehicles and riders increased . 
They overtook and passed Hooven and his family in the former's farm wagon , a saddled horse tied to the back board . 
The little Dutchman , wearing the old frock coat of Magnus Derrick , and a new broad brimmed straw hat , sat on the front seat with Mrs. Hooven . 
The little girl Hilda , and the older daughter Minna , were behind them on a board laid across the sides of the wagon . 
Presley and Harran stopped to shake hands . 
Say , cried Hooven , exhibiting an old , but extremely well kept , rifle , say , bei Gott , me , I tek some schatz at dose rebbit , you bedt . 
Ven he hef shtop to run und sit oop soh , bei der hind laigs on , I oop mit der guhn und bing ! I cetch um . 
The marshals won't allow you to shoot , Bismarck , observed Presley , looking at Minna . 
Hooven doubled up with merriment . 
Ho ! dot's hell of some fine joak . 
Me , I'M ONE OAF DOSE MAIRSCHELL MINE SELLUF , he roared with delight , beating his knee . 
To his notion , the joke was irresistible . 
All day long , he could be heard repeating it . 
He remembered her very pale face , very red lips and eyes of greenish blue , a pretty girl certainly , always trailing a group of men behind her . 
Her love affairs were the talk of all Los Muertos . 
I hope that Hooven girl won't go to the bad , Presley said to Harran . 
Oh , she's all right , the other answered . 
There's nothing vicious about Minna , and I guess she'll marry that foreman on the ditch gang , right enough . 
That's the kind , he continued , who would find it pretty easy to go wrong if they lived in a city . 
Around Caraher's was a veritable throng . 
Saddle horses and buggies by the score were clustered underneath the shed or hitched to the railings in front of the watering trough . 
Three of Broderson's Portuguese tenants and a couple of workmen from the railroad shops in Bonneville were on the porch , already very drunk . 
Continually , young men , singly or in groups , came from the door way , wiping their lips with sidelong gestures of the hand . 
The whole place exhaled the febrile bustle of the saloon on a holiday morning . 
The procession of teams streamed on through Bonneville , reenforced at every street corner . 
Look , said Presley , there goes Annixter and Hilma . 
He's got his buckskin back . 
The master of Quien Sabe , in top laced boots and campaign hat , a cigar in his teeth , followed along beside the carry all . 
Hilma and Mrs. Derrick were on the back seat , young Vacca driving . 
Harran and Presley bowed , taking off their hats . 
I'll look for you , you and Harran . 
Hello , Harran , where's the Governor ? He didn't come to day , Harran shouted back , as the crowd carried him further away from Annixter . 
Left him and old Broderson at Los Muertos . 
The throng emerged into the open country again , spreading out upon the Osterman ranch . 
From all directions could be seen horses and buggies driving across the stubble , converging upon the rendezvous . 
The marshals began to appear . 
Hooven , descending from the farm wagon , pinned his white badge to his hat brim and mounted his horse . 
Stop here , stop here , he vociferated , dashing along in front of Presley and Harran , waving his crop . 
The procession came to a halt , the horses' heads pointing eastward . 
The line began to be formed . 
Its wings , under the command of lieutenants , were slightly advanced . 
Far out before its centre Osterman took his place , delighted beyond expression at his conspicuousness , posing for the gallery , making his horse dance . 
Wail , aindt dey gowun to gommence den bretty soohn , exclaimed Mrs. Hooven , who had taken her husband's place on the forward seat of the wagon . 
I never was so warm , murmured Minna , fanning herself with her hat . 
For miles over the flat expanse of stubble , curved the interminable lines of horses and vehicles . 
At a guess , nearly five thousand people were present . 
The drive was one of the largest ever held . 
But no start was made immobilized , the vast crescent stuck motionless under the blazing sun . 
Here and there could be heard voices uplifted in jocular remonstrance . 
Oh , I say , get a move on , somebody . 
Say , I'll take root here pretty soon . 
Some took malicious pleasure in starting false alarms . 
Ah , HERE we go . 
Invariably these jokes fooled some one in the line . 
This manoeuvre never failed to produce its effect of hilarity upon those near at hand . 
Everybody laughed at the blunderer , the joker jeering audibly . 
Hey , come back here . 
Don't be in a hurry , Grandpa . 
Say , you want to drive all the rabbits yourself . 
Later on , a certain group of these fellows started a huge josh . 
Say , that's what we're waiting for , the 'do funny . 
The do funny ? Sure , you can't drive rabbits without the 'do funny . 
What's the do funny ? Oh , say , she don't know what the do funny is . 
We can't start without it , sure . 
Pete went back to get it . 
Oh , you're joking me , there's no such thing . 
Well , aren't we WAITING for it ? Oh , look , look , cried some women in a covered rig . 
See , they are starting already 'way over there . 
In fact , it did appear as if the far extremity of the line was in motion . 
Dust rose in the air above it . 
Why don't we start ? No , they've stopped . 
Why don't we move ? But as one or two began to move off , the nearest marshal shouted wrathfully Get back there , get back there . 
Well , they've started over there . 
Get back , I tell you . 
Where's the 'do funny ? Say , we're going to miss it all . 
They've all started over there . 
A lieutenant came galloping along in front of the line , shouting Here , what's the matter here ? Why don't you start ? There was a great shout . 
Everybody simultaneously uttered a prolonged Oh h . 
Here we go for sure this time . 
Remember to keep the alignment , roared the lieutenant . 
And the marshals , rushing here and there on their sweating horses to points where the line bulged forward , shouted , waving their arms Not too fast , not too fast . 
Here , keep closer together here . 
A brisk gaiety was in the air . 
Everyone was in the best of humor , calling from team to team , laughing , skylarking , joshing . 
Garnett , of the Ruby Rancho , and Gethings , of the San Pablo , both on horseback , found themselves side by side . 
Ignoring the drive and the spirit of the occasion , they kept up a prolonged and serious conversation on an expected rise in the price of wheat . 
Dabney , also on horseback , followed them , listening attentively to every word , but hazarding no remark . 
Mrs. Derrick and Hilma sat in the back seat of the carry all , behind young Vacca . 
Hilma , very much excited , leaned from the carry all , anxious to see everything , watching for rabbits , asking innumerable questions of Annixter , who rode at her side . 
Conscious dignity , a new element in her character , developed . 
The shrinking , the timidity of the girl just awakening to the consciousness of sex , passed away from her . 
The confusion , the troublous complexity of the woman , a mystery even to herself , disappeared . 
Motherhood dawned , the old simplicity of her maiden days came back to her . 
It was no longer a simplicity of ignorance , but of supreme knowledge , the simplicity of the perfect , the simplicity of greatness . 
She looked the world fearlessly in the eyes . 
She moved surrounded by an invisible atmosphere of Love . 
Love was in her wide opened brown eyes , Love the dim reflection of that descending crown poised over her head radiated in a faint lustre from her dark , thick hair . 
From her white , large arms downward to her pink finger tips Love , an invisible electric fluid , disengaged itself , subtle , alluring . 
In the velvety huskiness of her voice , Love vibrated like a note of unknown music . 
The hardness and inhumanity of the man was fast breaking up . 
One night , returning late to the Ranch house , after a compulsory visit to the city , he had come upon Hilma asleep . 
He had never forgotten that night . 
He prayed , he knew not what , vague words , wordless thoughts , resolving fiercely to do right , to make some return for God's gift thus placed within his hands . 
Where once Annixter had thought only of himself , he now thought only of Hilma . 
For the moment , however , the two natures struggled within him . 
A fight was to be fought , one more , the last , the fiercest , the attack of the enemy who menaced his very home and hearth , was to be resisted . 
Then , peace attained , arrested development would once more proceed . 
Hilma looked from the carry all , scanning the open plain in front of the advancing line of the drive . 
Where are the rabbits ? she asked of Annixter . 
I don't see any at all . 
They are way ahead of us yet , he said . 
Here , take the glasses . 
He passed her his field glasses , and she adjusted them . 
Oh , yes , she cried , I see . 
I can see five or six , but oh , so far off . 
The beggars run 'way ahead , at first . 
See them run , little specks . 
Every now and then they sit up , their ears straight up , in the air . 
Here , look , Hilma , there goes one close by . 
From out of the ground apparently , some twenty yards distant , a great jack sprang into view , bounding away with tremendous leaps , his black tipped ears erect . 
He disappeared , his grey body losing itself against the grey of the ground . 
Oh , a big fellow . 
Yes , yes , oh , look at him run . 
At first , they appeared singly and at long intervals then in twos and threes , as the drive continued to advance . 
Gradually , the number of jacks to be seen over the expanse of stubble in front of the line of teams increased . 
No two acted precisely alike . 
Some lay stubbornly close in a little depression between two clods , till the horses' hoofs were all but upon them , then sprang out from their hiding place at the last second . 
Others ran forward but a few yards at a time , refusing to take flight , scenting a greater danger before them than behind . 
Still others , forced up at the last moment , doubled with lightning alacrity in their tracks , turning back to scuttle between the teams , taking desperate chances . 
As often as this occurred , it was the signal for a great uproar . 
Don't let him get through don t let him get through . 
Look out for him , there he goes . 
Horns were blown , bells rung , tin pans clamorously beaten . 
Either the jack escaped , or confused by the noise , darted back again , fleeing away as if his life depended on the issue of the instant . 
Once even , a bewildered rabbit jumped fair into Mrs. Derrick's lap as she sat in the carry all , and was out again like a flash . 
By noon the number of rabbits discernible by Annixter's field glasses on ahead was far into the thousands . 
The outside wings of the curved line of vehicles began to draw in a little Osterman's ranch was left behind , the drive continued on over Quien Sabe . 
As the day advanced , the rabbits , singularly enough , became less wild . 
When flushed , they no longer ran so far nor so fast , limping off instead a few feet at a time , and crouching down , their ears close upon their backs . 
Thus it was , that by degrees the teams began to close up on the main herd . 
At every instant the numbers increased . 
It was no longer thousands , it was tens of thousands . 
The earth was alive with rabbits . 
Denser and denser grew the throng . 
In all directions nothing was to be seen but the loose mass of the moving jacks . 
The horns of the crescent of teams began to contract . 
Far off the corral came into sight . 
The disintegrated mass of rabbits commenced , as it were , to solidify , to coagulate . 
At first , each jack was some three feet distant from his nearest neighbor , but this space diminished to two feet , then to one , then to but a few inches . 
The rabbits began leaping over one another . 
Then the strange scene defined itself . 
It was no longer a herd covering the earth . 
It was a sea , whipped into confusion , tossing incessantly , leaping , falling , agitated by unseen forces . 
At times the unexpected tameness of the rabbits all at once vanished . 
Throughout certain portions of the herd eddies of terror abruptly burst forth . 
The line of vehicles was halted . 
To go forward now meant to trample the rabbits under foot . 
The drive came to a standstill while the herd entered the corral . 
This took time , for the rabbits were by now too crowded to run . 
However , like an opened sluice gate , the extending flanks of the entrance of the corral slowly engulfed the herd . 
The mass , packed tight as ever , by degrees diminished , precisely as a pool of water when a dam is opened . 
The last stragglers went in with a rush , and the gate was dropped . 
Come , just have a lock in here , called Annixter . 
Hilma , descending from the carry all and joined by Presley and Harran , approached and looked over the high board fence . 
Oh , did you ever see anything like that ? she exclaimed . 
The corral , a really large enclosure , had proved all too small for the number of rabbits collected by the drive . 
Inside it was a living , moving , leaping , breathing , twisting mass . 
The rabbits were packed two , three , and four feet deep . 
They were in constant movement those beneath struggling to the top , those on top sinking and disappearing below their fellows . 
All wildness , all fear of man , seemed to have entirely disappeared . 
On signal , the killing began . 
Dogs that had been brought there for that purpose when let into the corral refused , as had been half expected , to do the work . 
They snuffed curiously at the pile , then backed off , disturbed , perplexed . 
But the men and boys Portuguese for the most part were more eager . 
Annixter drew Hilma away , and , indeed , most of the people set about the barbecue at once . 
In the corral , however , the killing went forward . 
Armed with a club in each hand , the young fellows from Guadalajara and Bonneville , and the farm boys from the ranches , leaped over the rails of the corral . 
They walked unsteadily upon the myriad of crowding bodies underfoot , or , as space was cleared , sank almost waist deep into the mass that leaped and squirmed about them . 
Blindly , furiously , they struck and struck . 
The Anglo Saxon spectators round about drew back in disgust , but the hot , degenerated blood of Portuguese , Mexican , and mixed Spaniard boiled up in excitement at this wholesale slaughter . 
But only a few of the participants of the drive cared to look on . 
All the guests betook themselves some quarter of a mile farther on into the hills . 
The picnic and barbecue were to be held around the spring where Broderson Creek took its rise . 
A vast confused clamour rose in the air , a babel of talk , a clatter of tin plates , of knives and forks . 
Bottles were uncorked , napkins and oil cloths spread over the ground . 
The men lit pipes and cigars , the women seized the occasion to nurse their babies . 
That josher , Osterman , always at his monkey shines , but a good fellow for all that brainy too . 
Nothing stuck up about him either , like Magnus Derrick . 
Everything all right , Buck ? inquired Osterman , coming up to where Annixter , Hilma and Mrs. Derrick were sitting down to their lunch . 
Yes , yes , everything right . 
But we've no cork screw . 
No screw cork no scare crow ? Here you are , and he drew from his pocket a silver plated jack knife with a cork screw attachment . 
Harran and Presley came up , bearing between them a great smoking , roasted portion of beef just off the fire . 
Hilma hastened to put forward a huge china platter . 
She had handed Presley the platter , and was now sitting with her back against the tree , between two boles of the roots . 
The position was a little elevated and the supporting roots on either side of her were like the arms of a great chair a chair of state . 
And the josh died away on Osterman's lips , and unconsciously and swiftly he bared his head . 
Something was passing there in the air about him that he did not understand , something , however , that imposed reverence and profound respect . 
He stammered confusedly and took himself away , for the moment abstracted , serious , lost in thought . 
By now everyone was eating . 
It was the feeding of the People , elemental , gross , a great appeasing of appetite , an enormous quenching of thirst . 
Conversation lagged while the People ate , while hunger was appeased . 
One ate for the sake of eating , resolved that there should be nothing left , considering it a matter of pride to exhibit a clean plate . 
After dinner , preparations were made for games . 
On a flat plateau at the top of one of the hills the contestants were to strive . 
Presley was delighted with it all . 
It was Homeric , this feasting , this vast consuming of meat and bread and wine , followed now by games of strength . 
An epic simplicity and directness , an honest Anglo Saxon mirth and innocence , commended it . 
Crude it was coarse it was , but no taint of viciousness was here . 
These people were good people , kindly , benignant even , always readier to give than to receive , always more willing to help than to be helped . 
Of such was the backbone of the nation sturdy Americans everyone of them . 
It was the very place where once Presley had loved to lounge entire afternoons , reading his books of poems , smoking and dozing . 
From this high point one dominated the entire valley to the south and west . 
The three men paused for a moment on the crest of the hill to consider it . 
Young Vacca came running and panting up the hill after them , calling for Annixter . 
Well , well , what is it ? Mr. Osterman's looking for you , sir , you and Mr. Harran . 
Vanamee , that cow boy over at Derrick's , has just come from the Governor with a message . 
Hello , what's up now ? muttered Annixter , as they turned back . 
They found Osterman saddling his horse in furious haste . 
Near by him was Vanamee holding by the bridle an animal that was one lather of sweat . 
A few of the picnickers were turning their heads curiously in that direction . 
Evidently something of moment was in the wind . 
What's all up ? demanded Annixter , as he and Harran , followed by Presley , drew near . 
There's hell to pay , exclaimed Osterman under his breath . 
He handed Annixter a sheet of note paper , and turned again to the cinching of his saddle . 
We've got to be quick , he cried . 
They've stolen a march on us . 
Annixter read the note , Harran and Presley looking over his shoulder . 
Ah , it's them , is it , exclaimed Annixter . 
Now for it , he exclaimed . 
They've been to your place already , Mr. Annixter , said Vanamee . 
I passed by it on my way up . 
They have put Delaney in possession , and have set all your furniture out in the road . 
Annixter turned about , his lips white . 
Already Presley and Harran had run to their horses . 
Vacca , cried Annixter , where's Vacca ? Put the saddle on the buckskin , QUICK . 
Osterman , get as many of the League as are here together at THIS spot , understand . 
I'll be back in a minute . 
I must tell Hilma this . 
Hooven ran up as Annixter disappeared . 
His little eyes were blazing , he was dragging his horse with him . 
Say , dose fellers come , hey ? Me , I'm alretty , see I hev der guhn . 
They've jumped the ranch , little girl , said Annixter , putting one arm around Hilma . 
They're in our house now . 
Go to Derrick's and wait for me there . 
She put her arms around his neck . 
You're going ? she demanded . 
It will be all right . 
Go to Derrick's and good bye . 
She said never a word . 
She looked once long into his eyes , then kissed him on the mouth . 
Meanwhile , the news had spread . 
The multitude rose to its feet . 
Women and men , with pale faces , looked at each other speechless , or broke forth into inarticulate exclamations . 
A strange , unfamiliar murmur took the place of the tumultuous gaiety of the previous moments . 
A sense of dread , of confusion , of impending terror weighed heavily in the air . 
What was now to happen ? When Annixter got back to Osterman , he found a number of the Leaguers already assembled . 
Best keep out of this , Pres , cried Annixter . 
Are we ready ? exclaimed Gethings . 
Ready , ready , we're all here . 
Is this all of us ? cried Annixter . 
Where are the six hundred men who were going to rise when this happened ? They had wavered , these other Leaguers . 
Now , when the actual crisis impended , they were smitten with confusion . 
Ah , no , they were not going to stand up and be shot at just to save Derrick's land . 
What did Annixter and Osterman take them for ? No , sir the Railroad had stolen a march on them . 
After all his big talk Derrick had allowed them to be taken by surprise . 
The only thing to do was to call a meeting of the Executive Committee . 
That was the only thing . 
As for going down there with no weapons in their hands , NO , sir . 
That was asking a little TOO much . 
Come on , then , boys , shouted Osterman , turning his back on the others . 
The Governor says to meet him at Hooven's . 
We'll make for the Long Trestle and strike the trail to Hooven's there . 
It was a terrible ride . 
Twice during the scrambling descent from the hills , Presley's pony fell beneath him . 
Annixter , on his buckskin , and Osterman , on his thoroughbred , good horsemen both , led the others , setting a terrific pace . 
The hills were left behind . 
Broderson Creek was crossed and on the levels of Quien Sabe , straight through the standing wheat , the nine horses , flogged and spurred , stretched out to their utmost . 
Their passage through the wheat sounded like the rip and tear of a gigantic web of cloth . 
The landscape on either hand resolved itself into a long blur . 
Tears came to the eyes , flying pebbles , clods of earth , grains of wheat flung up in the flight , stung the face like shot . 
Osterman's thoroughbred took the second crossing of Broderson's Creek in a single leap . 
At last Hooven's unpainted house , beneath the enormous live oak tree , came in sight . 
Across the Lower Road , breaking through fences and into the yard around the house , thundered the Leaguers . 
Magnus was waiting for them . 
The riders dismounted , hardly less exhausted than their horses . 
Why , where's all the men ? Annixter demanded of Magnus . 
Broderson is here and Cutter , replied the Governor , no one else . 
I thought YOU would bring more men with you . 
There are only nine of us . 
And the six hundred Leaguers who were going to rise when this happened ! exclaimed Garnett , bitterly . 
Rot the League , cried Annixter . 
It's gone to pot went to pieces at the first touch . 
We have been taken by surprise , gentlemen , after all , said Magnus . 
But there are eleven of us . 
We learned it all through our friends in Bonneville about an hour ago . 
They telephoned me and Mr. Broderson . 
S. Behrman met him and provided about a dozen deputies . 
Delaney , Ruggles , and Christian joined them at Guadalajara . 
They left Guadalajara , going towards Mr. Annixter's ranch house on Quien Sabe . 
They are serving the writs in ejectment and putting the dummy buyers in possession . 
S. Behrman is with them . 
Where are they now ? Cutter is watching them from the Long Trestle . 
Well , observed Gethings , From Guadalajara they can only go to two places . 
Either they will take the Upper Road and go on to Osterman's next , or they will take the Lower Road to Mr. Derrick's . 
That is as I supposed , said Magnus . 
That is why I wanted you to come here . 
From Hooven's , here , we can watch both roads simultaneously . 
Is anybody on the lookout on the Upper Road ? Cutter . 
He is on the Long Trestle . 
Say , observed Hooven , the instincts of the old time soldier stirring him , say , dose feller pretty demn schmart , I tink . 
We got to put some picket way oudt bei der Lower Roadt alzoh , und he tek dose glassus Mist'r Ennixt'r got bei um . 
Say , look at dose irregation ditsch . 
Dot ditsch he run righd across BOTH dose road , hey ? Dat's some fine entrenchment , you bedt . 
We fighd um from dose ditsch . 
After the outposts had left them , the party in Hooven's cottage looked to their weapons . 
Long since , every member of the League had been in the habit of carrying his revolver with him . 
They were all armed and , in addition , Hooven had his rifle . 
Presley alone carried no weapon . 
The main room of Hooven's house , in which the Leaguers were now assembled , was barren , poverty stricken , but tolerably clean . 
An old clock ticked vociferously on a shelf . 
In one corner was a bed , with a patched , faded quilt . 
In the centre of the room , straddling over the bare floor , stood a pine table . 
Around this the men gathered , two or three occupying chairs , Annixter sitting sideways on the table , the rest standing . 
I believe , gentlemen , said Magnus , that we can go through this day without bloodshed . 
I believe not one shot need be fired . 
The Railroad will not force the issue , will not bring about actual fighting . 
When the marshal realises that we are thoroughly in earnest , thoroughly determined , I am convinced that he will withdraw . 
There were murmurs of assent . 
Look here , said Annixter , if this thing can by any means be settled peaceably , I say let's do it , so long as we don't give in . 
I propose we make one more attempt to stave this thing off . 
Let's see if we can't get to talk with the marshal himself at any rate , warn him of the danger of going any further . 
Boys , let's not fire the first shot . 
I should hate to have innocent blood on my hands that is , if it IS innocent . 
I don't know , that S. Behrman ah , he is a a surely he had innocent blood on HIS head . 
That Dyke affair , terrible , terrible but then Dyke WAS in the wrong driven to it , though the Railroad did drive him to it . 
I want to be fair and just to everybody There's a team coming up the road from Los Muertos , announced Presley from the door . 
Fair and just to everybody , murmured old Broderson , wagging his head , frowning perplexedly . 
I don't want to to to harm anybody unless they harm me . 
Is the team going towards Guadalajara ? enquired Garnett , getting up and coming to the door . 
Yes , it's a Portuguese , one of the garden truck men . 
We must turn him back , declared Osterman . 
He can't go through here . 
We don't want him to take any news on to the marshal and S. Behrman . 
I'll turn him back , said Presley . 
He rode out towards the market cart , and the others , watching from the road in front of Hooven's , saw him halt it . 
They could hear the Portuguese expostulating volubly , but in the end he turned back . 
Martial law on Los Muertos , isn't it ? observed Osterman . 
Steady all , he exclaimed as he turned about , here comes Harran . 
Harran rode up at a gallop . 
I saw them , he cried . 
They are coming this way . 
S. Behrman and Ruggles are in a two horse buggy . 
All the others are on horseback . 
There are eleven of them . 
Christian and Delaney are with them . 
I left Hooven watching them . 
Better call in Gethings and Cutter right away , said Annixter . 
We'll need all our men . 
I'll call them in , Presley volunteered at once . 
Can I have the buckskin ? My pony is about done up . 
He departed at a brisk gallop , but on the way met Gethings and Cutter returning . 
They , too , from their elevated position , had observed the marshal's party leaving Guadalajara by the Lower Road . 
Presley told them of the decision of the Leaguers not to fire until fired upon . 
All right , said Gethings . 
But if it comes to a gun fight , that means it's all up with at least one of us . 
Delaney never misses his man . 
When they reached Hooven's again , they found that the Leaguers had already taken their position in the ditch . 
The plank bridge across it had been torn up . 
Magnus , two long revolvers lying on the embankment in front of him , was in the middle , Harran at his side . 
On either side , some five feet intervening between each man , stood the other Leaguers , their revolvers ready . 
Dabney , the silent old man , had taken off his coat . 
Take your places between Mr. Osterman and Mr. Broderson , said Magnus , as the three men rode up . 
Presley , he added , I forbid you to take any part in this affair . 
Yes , keep him out of it , cried Annixter from his position at the extreme end of the line . 
Go back to Hooven's house , Pres , and look after the horses , he added . 
This is no business of yours . 
And keep the road behind us clear . 
Don't let ANY ONE come near , not ANY ONE , understand ? Presley withdrew , leading the buckskin and the horses that Gethings and Cutter had ridden . 
He fastened them under the great live oak and then came out and stood in the road in front of the house to watch what was going on . 
In the ditch , shoulder deep , the Leaguers , ready , watchful , waited in silence , their eyes fixed on the white shimmer of the road leading to Guadalajara . 
Where's Hooven ? enquired Cutter . 
I don't know , Osterman replied . 
He was out watching the Lower Road with Harran Derrick . 
Oh , Harran , he called , isn't Hooven coming in ? I don't know what he is waiting for , answered Harran . 
He was to have come in just after me . 
He thought maybe the marshal's party might make a feint in this direction , then go around by the Upper Road , after all . 
He wanted to watch them a little longer . 
But he ought to be here now . 
Think he'll take a shot at them on his own account ? Oh , no , he wouldn't do that . 
Maybe they took him prisoner . 
Well , that's to be thought of , too . 
Suddenly there was a cry . 
Around the bend of the road in front of them came a cloud of dust . 
From it emerged a horse's head . 
Hello , hello , there's something . 
Remember , we are not to fire first . 
Perhaps that's Hooven I can't see . 
Is it ? There only seems to be one horse . 
Too much dust for one horse . 
Annixter , who had taken his field glasses from Harran , adjusted them to his eyes . 
That's not them , he announced presently , nor Hooven either . 
Then after another moment , he added , The butcher's cart from Guadalajara . 
The men drew long breaths , settling back in their places . 
Do we let him go on , Governor ? The bridge is down . 
He can't go by and we must not let him go back . 
We shall have to detain him and question him . 
I wonder the marshal let him pass . 
The cart approached at a lively trot . 
Anybody else in that cart , Mr. Annixter ? asked Magnus . 
It may be a ruse . 
It is strange the marshal should have let him pass . 
The Leaguers roused themselves again . 
Osterman laid his hand on his revolver . 
No , called Annixter , in another instant , no , there's only one man in it . 
The cart came up , and Cutter and Phelps , clambering from the ditch , stopped it as it arrived in front of the party . 
Hey what what ? exclaimed the young butcher , pulling up . 
Is that bridge broke ? But at the idea of being held , the boy protested at top voice , badly frightened , bewildered , not knowing what was to happen next . 
No , no , I got my meat to deliver . 
Say , you let me go . 
Say , I ain't got nothing to do with you . 
He tugged at the reins , trying to turn the cart about . 
Cutter , with his jack knife , parted the reins just back of the bit . 
You'll stay where you are , m' son , for a while . 
We're not going to hurt you . 
But you are not going back to town till we say so . 
They were headed for Los Muertos . 
That's them , all right , muttered Annixter . 
They're coming by this road , sure . 
The butcher's horse and cart were led to one side of the road , and the horse tied to the fence with one of the severed lines . 
The butcher , himself , was passed over to Presley , who locked him in Hooven's barn . 
Well , what the devil , demanded Osterman , has become of Bismarck ? In fact , the butcher had seen nothing of Hooven . 
The minutes were passing , and still he failed to appear . 
What's he up to , anyways ? Bet you what you like , they caught him . 
Just like that crazy Dutchman to get excited and go too near . 
You can always depend on Hooven to lose his head . 
Five minutes passed , then ten . 
The road towards Guadalajara lay empty , baking and white under the sun . 
Well , the marshal and S. Behrman don't seem to be in any hurry , either . 
Shall I go forward and reconnoitre , Governor ? asked Harran . 
But Dabney , who stood next to Annixter , touched him on the shoulder and , without speaking , pointed down the road . 
Annixter looked , then suddenly cried out Here comes Hooven . 
The German galloped into sight , around the turn of the road , his rifle laid across his saddle . 
He came on rapidly , pulled up , and dismounted at the ditch . 
Dey're commen , he cried , trembling with excitement . 
I watch um long dime bei der side oaf der roadt in der busches . 
Dey shtop bei der gate oder side der relroadt trecks and talk long dime mit one n'udder . 
Dey're gowun sure do zum monkey doodle pizeness . 
Me , I see Gritschun put der kertridges in his guhn . 
I tink dey gowun to gome MY blace first . 
Dey gowun to try put me off , tek my home , bei Gott . 
All right , get down in here and keep quiet , Hooven . 
Don't fire unless Here they are . 
A half dozen voices uttered the cry at once . 
There could be no mistake this time . 
A buggy , drawn by two horses , came into view around the curve of the road . 
Three riders accompanied it , and behind these , seen at intervals in a cloud of dust were two three five six others . 
This , then , was S. Behrman with the United States marshal and his posse . 
Osterman cocked his revolver , and in the profound silence that had fallen upon the scene , the click was plainly audible from end to end of the line . 
Remember our agreement , gentlemen , cried Magnus , in a warning voice . 
Mr. Osterman , I must ask you to let down the hammer of your weapon . 
In absolute quiet , standing motionless in their places , the Leaguers watched the approach of the marshal . 
The riders came on steadily . 
The grind of the buggy wheels in the grit and dust of the road , and the prolonged clatter of the horses' feet began to make itself heard . 
The Leaguers could distinguish the faces of their enemies . 
In the buggy were S. Behrman and Cyrus Ruggles , the latter driving . 
A tall man in a frock coat and slouched hat the marshal , beyond question rode at the left of the buggy Delaney , carrying a Winchester , at the right . 
Christian , the real estate broker , S. Behrman's cousin , also with a rifle , could be made out just behind the marshal . 
Back of these , riding well up , was a group of horsemen , indistinguishable in the dust raised by the buggy's wheels . 
Steadily the distance between the Leaguers and the posse diminished . 
Don't let them get too close , Governor , whispered Harran . 
When S. Behrman's buggy was about one hundred yards distant from the irrigating ditch , Magnus sprang out upon the road , leaving his revolvers behind him . 
Magnus cried aloud Halt where you are . 
At the Governor's words , they saw Ruggles pull sharply on the reins . 
The buggy came to a standstill , the riders doing likewise . 
Magnus approached the marshal , still followed by Garnett and Gethings , and began to speak . 
His voice was audible to the men in the ditch , but his words could not be made out . 
They heard the marshal reply quietly enough and the two shook hands . 
Delaney came around from the side of the buggy , his horse standing before the team across the road . 
He leaned from the saddle , listening to what was being said , but made no remark . 
They saw , however , that the latter repeatedly shook his head and once they heard him exclaim in a loud voice I only know my duty , Mr. Derrick . 
Then Gethings turned about , and seeing Delaney close at hand , addressed an unheard remark to him . 
The cow puncher replied curtly and the words seemed to anger Gethings . 
He made a gesture , pointing back to the ditch , showing the intrenched Leaguers to the posse . 
Delaney appeared to communicate the news that the Leaguers were on hand and prepared to resist , to the other members of the party . 
They all looked toward the ditch and plainly saw the ranchers there , standing to their arms . 
But meanwhile Ruggles had addressed himself more directly to Magnus , and between the two an angry discussion was going forward . 
Once even Harran heard his father exclaim The statement is a lie and no one knows it better than yourself . 
Here , growled Annixter to Dabney , who stood next him in the ditch , those fellows are getting too close . 
Look at them edging up . 
Don't Magnus see that ? The other members of the marshal's force had come forward from their places behind the buggy and were spread out across the road . 
Some of them were gathered about Magnus , Garnett , and Gethings and some were talking together , looking and pointing towards the ditch . 
Whether acting upon signal or not , the Leaguers in the ditch could not tell , but it was certain that one or two of the posse had moved considerably forward . 
Besides this , Delaney had now placed his horse between Magnus and the ditch , and two others riding up from the rear had followed his example . 
The posse surrounded the three ranchers , and by now , everybody was talking at once . 
Look here , Harran called to Annixter , this won't do . 
I don't like the looks of this thing . 
They all seem to be edging up , and before we know it they may take the Governor and the other men prisoners . 
They ought to come back , declared Annixter . 
Somebody ought to tell them that those fellows are creeping up . 
By now , the angry argument between the Governor and Ruggles had become more heated than ever . 
Their voices were raised now and then they made furious gestures . 
They ought to come back , cried Osterman . 
We couldn't shoot now if anything should happen , for fear of hitting them . 
Well , it sounds as though something were going to happen pretty soon . 
They could hear Gethings and Delaney wrangling furiously another deputy joined in . 
I'm going to call the Governor back , exclaimed Annixter , suddenly clambering out of the ditch . 
No , no , cried Osterman , keep in the ditch . 
They can't drive us out if we keep here . 
Hooven and Harran , who had instinctively followed Annixter , hesitated at Osterman's words and the three halted irresolutely on the road before the ditch , their weapons in their hands . 
Governor , shouted Harran , come on back . 
Oh , come back here , Harran , called Osterman . 
That ain't going to do any good . 
There listen , suddenly exclaimed Harran . 
The Governor is calling us . 
Osterman got out of the ditch and came forward , catching Harran by the arm and pulling him back . 
Get back into the ditch again . 
But Cutter , Phelps , and the old man Dabney , misunderstanding what was happening , and seeing Osterman leave the ditch , had followed his example . 
Keep back , you , cried the deputy again . 
In the group around S. Behrman's buggy , Gethings and Delaney were yet quarrelling , and the angry debate between Magnus , Garnett , and the marshal still continued . 
Till this moment , the real estate broker , Christian , had taken no part in the argument , but had kept himself in the rear of the buggy . 
Now , however , he pushed forward . 
There was but little room for him to pass , and , as he rode by the buggy , his horse scraped his flank against the hub of the wheel . 
The animal recoiled sharply , and , striking against Garnett , threw him to the ground . 
Delaney's horse stood between the buggy and the Leaguers gathered on the road in front of the ditch the incident , indistinctly seen by them , was misinterpreted . 
Instantly the revolvers and rifles seemed to go off of themselves . 
Both sides , deputies and Leaguers , opened fire simultaneously . 
Delaney , shot through the stomach , slid down from his horse , and , on his hands and knees , crawled from the road into the standing wheat . 
Christian fell backward from the saddle toward the buggy , and hung suspended in that position , his head and shoulders on the wheel , one stiff leg still across his saddle . 
Hooven , in attempting to rise from his kneeling position , received a rifle ball squarely in the throat , and rolled forward upon his face . 
Old Broderson , crying out , Oh , they've shot me , boys , staggered sideways , his head bent , his hands rigid at his sides , and fell into the ditch . 
Osterman , blood running from his mouth and nose , turned about and walked back . 
Presley helped him across the irrigating ditch and Osterman laid himself down , his head on his folded arms . 
Harran Derrick dropped where he stood , turning over on his face , and lay motionless , groaning terribly , a pool of blood forming under his stomach . 
The old man Dabney , silent as ever , received his death , speechless . 
He fell to his knees , got up again , fell once more , and died without a word . 
Annixter , instantly killed , fell his length to the ground , and lay without movement , just as he had fallen , one arm across his face . 
VII On their way to Derrick's ranch house , Hilma and Mrs. Derrick heard the sounds of distant firing . 
Stop ! cried Hilma , laying her hand upon young Vacca's arm . 
Listen , what was that ? The carry all came to a halt and from far away across the rustling wheat came the faint rattle of rifles and revolvers . 
Say , cried Vacca , rolling his eyes , oh , say , they're fighting over there . 
Mrs. Derrick put her hands over her face . 
Fighting , she cried , oh , oh , it's terrible . 
Magnus is there and Harran . 
Where do you think it is ? demanded Hilma . 
Drive to Hooven's , quick . 
Better not , Mrs. Annixter , protested the young man . 
Mr. Annixter said we were to go to Derrick's . 
Better keep away from Hooven's if there's trouble there . 
We wouldn't get there till it's all over , anyhow . 
Yes , yes , let's go home , cried Mrs. Derrick , I'm afraid . 
Oh , Hilma , I'm afraid . 
Come with me to Hooven's then . 
There , where they are fighting ? Oh , I couldn't . 
It would be all over before we got there as Vacca says . 
Sure , repeated young Vacca . 
Drive to Hooven's , commanded Hilma . 
If you won't , I'll walk there . 
She threw off the lap robes , preparing to descend . 
And you , she exclaimed , turning to Mrs. Derrick , how CAN you when Harran and your husband may be may are in danger . 
Grumbling , Vacca turned the carry all about and drove across the open fields till he reached the road to Guadalajara , just below the Mission . 
The horses started forward under the touch of the whip . 
The ranch houses of Quien Sabe came in sight . 
Do you want to stop at the house ? inquired Vacca over his shoulder . 
No , no oh , go faster make the horses run . 
They dashed through the houses of the Home ranch . 
Oh , oh , cried Hilma suddenly , look , look there . 
Look what they have done . 
Vacca pulled the horses up , for the road in front of Annixter's house was blocked . 
A vast , confused heap of household effects was there chairs , sofas , pictures , fixtures , lamps . 
Tears of anguish sprang to her eyes , a red flame of outraged modesty overspread her face . 
Oh , she cried , a sob catching her throat , oh , how could they do it ? But other fears intruded other greater terrors impended . 
Go on , she cried to Vacca , go on quickly . 
But Vacca would go no further . 
He had seen what had escaped Hilma's attention , two men , deputies , no doubt , on the porch of the ranch house . 
They held possession there , and the evidence of the presence of the enemy in this raid upon Quien Sabe had daunted him . 
No , SIR , he declared , getting out of the carry all , I ain't going to take you anywhere where you're liable to get hurt . 
Besides , the road's blocked by all this stuff . 
You can't get the team by . 
Hilma sprang from the carry all . 
Come , she said to Mrs. Derrick . 
When she arrived , she found the road in front of the German's house , and , indeed , all the surrounding yard , crowded with people . 
An overturned buggy lay on the side of the road in the distance , its horses in a tangle of harness , held by two or three men . 
She saw Caraher's buckboard under the live oak and near it a second buggy which she recognised as belonging to a doctor in Guadalajara . 
Oh , what has happened oh , what has happened ? moaned Mrs. Derrick . 
The young girl took her by the hand and together they pushed their way through the crowd of men and women and entered the yard . 
The throng gave way before the two women , parting to right and left without a word . 
Where is my husband ? demanded Hilma . 
Presley turned away and steadied himself against the jamb of the door . 
Hilma , leaving Mrs. Derrick , entered the house . 
The front room was full of men . 
She was dimly conscious of Cyrus Ruggles and S. Behrman , both deadly pale , talking earnestly and in whispers to Cutter and Phelps . 
There was a strange , acrid odour of an unfamiliar drug in the air . 
On the table before her was a satchel , surgical instruments , rolls of bandages , and a blue , oblong paper box full of cotton . 
But above the hushed noises of voices and footsteps , one terrible sound made itself heard the prolonged , rasping sound of breathing , half choked , laboured , agonised . 
Where is my husband ? she cried . 
She pushed the men aside . 
Garnett turned a white face to her . 
Where is my husband ? The other did not reply , but stepped aside and Hilma saw the dead body of her husband lying upon the bed . 
She did not cry out . 
She went to the bed , and sitting upon it , took Annixter's head in her lap , holding it gently between her hands . 
On hearing that his wife was outside , Magnus came quickly forward . 
She threw herself into his arms . 
Tell me , tell me , she cried , is Harran is We don't know yet , he answered . 
Oh , Annie Then suddenly the Governor checked himself . 
He , the indomitable , could not break down now . 
The doctor is with him , he said we are doing all we can . 
Try and be brave , Annie . 
This is a terrible day's work . 
She pressed forward , but he held her back . 
No , don't see him now . 
Go into the next room . 
Garnett , take care of her . 
But she would not be denied . 
She pushed by Magnus , and , breaking through the group that surrounded her son , sank on her knees beside him , moaning , in compassion and terror . 
Harran lay straight and rigid upon the floor , his head propped by a pillow , his coat that had been taken off spread over his chest . 
One leg of his trousers was soaked through and through with blood . 
His eyes were half closed , and with the regularity of a machine , the eyeballs twitched and twitched . 
Oh , Harrie , Harrie , called Mrs. Derrick , catching at one of his hands . 
The doctor shook his head . 
He is unconscious , Mrs. Derrick . 
Where was he where is the the Through the lungs . 
Will he get well ? Tell me the truth . 
She had all but fainted , and the old rancher , Garnett , half carrying , half leading her , took her to the one adjoining room Minna Hooven's bedchamber . 
In the outside room , Presley came and went , doing what he could to be of service , sick with horror , trembling from head to foot . 
The surviving members of both Leaguers and deputies the warring factions of the Railroad and the People mingled together now with no thought of hostility . 
Presley helped the doctor to cover Christian's body . 
S. Behrman and Ruggles held bowls of water while Osterman was attended to . 
The horror of that dreadful business had driven all other considerations from the mind . 
The sworn foes of the last hour had no thought of anything but to care for those whom , in their fury , they had shot down . 
The marshal , abandoning for that day the attempt to serve the writs , departed for San Francisco . 
The bodies had been brought in from the road where they fell . 
Annixter's corpse had been laid upon the bed those of Dabney and Hooven , whose wounds had all been in the face and head , were covered with a tablecloth . 
Upon the floor , places were made for the others . 
Cutter and Ruggles rode into Guadalajara to bring out the doctor there , and to telephone to Bonneville for others . 
Osterman had not at any time since the shooting , lost consciousness . 
He lay upon the floor of Hooven's house , bare to the waist , bandages of adhesive tape reeved about his abdomen and shoulder . 
His eyes were half closed . 
Presley , who looked after him , pending the arrival of a hack from Bonneville that was to take him home , knew that he was in agony . 
But this poser , this silly fellow , this cracker of jokes , whom no one had ever taken very seriously , at the last redeemed himself . 
When at length , the doctor had arrived , he had , for the first time , opened his eyes . 
I can wait , he said . 
He wondered what it meant and Cutter , coming up at that moment , Presley asked him if he knew . 
It's Delaney , said Cutter . 
It seems that when he was shot he crawled off into the wheat . 
They are looking for him there . 
Presley had forgotten all about the buster and had only a vague recollection of seeing him slide from his horse at the beginning of the fight . 
Anxious to know what had become of him , he hurried up and joined the party of searchers . 
We better look out , said one of the young men , how we go fooling around in here . 
If he's alive yet he's just as liable as not to think we're after him and take a shot at us . 
I guess there ain't much fight left in him , another answered . 
Look at the wheat here . 
Lord ! He's bled like a stuck pig . 
Here's his hat , abruptly exclaimed the leader of the party . 
He can't be far off . 
They called repeatedly without getting any answer , then proceeded cautiously . 
All at once the men in advance stopped so suddenly that those following carromed against them . 
There was an outburst of exclamation . 
Here he is ! Good Lord ! Sure , that's him . 
Poor fellow , poor fellow . 
The cow puncher lay on his back , deep in the wheat , his knees drawn up , his eyes wide open , his lips brown . 
Rigidly gripped in one hand was his empty revolver . 
The men , farm hands from the neighbouring ranches , young fellows from Guadalajara , drew back in instinctive repulsion . 
One at length ventured near , peering down into the face . 
Is he dead ? inquired those in the rear . 
Well , put your hand on his heart . 
No ! I I don't want to . 
What you afraid of ? Well , I just don't want to touch him , that's all . 
You can't always tell by that . 
How can you tell , then ? Pshaw , you fellows make me sick . 
Here , let me get there . 
There was a long pause , as the other bent down and laid his hand on the cow puncher's breast . 
Well ? I can't tell . 
Sometimes I think I feel it beat and sometimes I don't . 
I never saw a dead man before . 
Well , you can't tell by the heart . 
What's the good of talking so blame much . 
Dead or not , let's carry him back to the house . 
Two or three ran back to the road for planks from the broken bridge . 
When they returned with these a litter was improvised , and throwing their coats over the body , the party carried it back to the road . 
The doctor was summoned and declared the cow puncher to have been dead over half an hour . 
What did I tell you ? exclaimed one of the group . 
Well , I never said he wasn't dead , protested the other . 
I only said you couldn't always tell by whether his heart beat or not . 
But all at once there was a commotion . 
The wagon containing Mrs. Hooven , Minna , and little Hilda drove up . 
Eh , den , my men , cried Mrs. Hooven , wildly interrogating the faces of the crowd . 
The crowd bore back as they advanced , staring at them in silence . 
Eh , whadt has happun , whadt has happun ? wailed Mrs. Hooven , as she hurried on , her two hands out before her , the fingers spread wide . 
Eh , Hooven , eh , my men , are you alle righdt ? She burst into the house . 
Those in the outside room , saying no word , made way for them . 
Of all the main actors of the tragedy of the fight in the ditch , they remained the least noted , obtruded themselves the least upon the world's observation . 
They were , for the moment , forgotten . 
But by now Hooven's house was the centre of an enormous crowd . 
Presley , returning from the search for Delaney's body , had to fight his way to the house again . 
And from all this multitude there rose an indefinable murmur . 
As yet , there was no menace in it , no anger . 
It was confusion merely , bewilderment , the first long drawn oh ! that greets the news of some great tragedy . 
The people had taken no thought as yet . 
Curiosity was their dominant impulse . 
Every one wanted to see what had been done failing that , to hear of it , and failing that , to be near the scene of the affair . 
The crowd of people packed the road in front of the house for nearly a quarter of a mile in either direction . 
They crowded , pushed , struggled , surged forward and back without knowing why , converging incessantly upon Hooven's house . 
When , at length , Presley got to the gate , he found a carry all drawn up before it . 
The doctor , bareheaded and in his shirt sleeves , squinting in the sunlight , attended them , repeating at every step Slow , slow , take it easy , gentlemen . 
His face was not pale , no bandages could be seen . 
But at this point a moment of confusion ensued . 
Presley , because of half a dozen people who stood in his way , could not see what was going on . 
There were exclamations , hurried movements . 
The doctor uttered a sharp command and a man ran back to the house returning on the instant with the doctor's satchel . 
By this time , Presley was close to the wheels of the carry all and could see the doctor inside the vehicle bending over old Broderson . 
Here it is , here it is , exclaimed the man who had been sent to the house . 
I won't need it , answered the doctor , he's dying now . 
At the words a great hush widened throughout the throng near at hand . 
Some men took off their hats . 
Stand back , protested the doctor quietly , stand back , good people , please . 
The crowd bore back a little . 
In the silence , a woman began to sob . 
The seconds passed , then a minute . 
The horses of the carry all shifted their feet and whisked their tails , driving off the flies . 
At length , the doctor got down from the carry all , letting down the rain flaps on that side as well . 
Will somebody go home with the body ? he asked . 
Gethings stepped forward and took his place by the driver . 
The carry all drove away . 
During his absence it had been cleared of all but one or two of the Leaguers , who had taken part in the fight . 
Hilma still sat on the bed with Annixter's head in her lap . 
S. Behrman , Ruggles , and all the railroad party had gone . 
Osterman had been taken away in a hack and the tablecloth over Dabney's body replaced with a sheet . 
But still unabated , agonised , raucous , came the sounds of Harran's breathing . 
Everything possible had already been done . 
For the moment it was out of the question to attempt to move him . 
Presley on tip toes joined the group , looking on attentively . 
One of the surgeons who had been called from Bonneville stood close by , watching Harran's face , his arms folded . 
How is he ? Presley whispered . 
He won't live , the other responded . 
By degrees the choke and gurgle of the breathing became more irregular and the lids closed over the twitching eyes . 
All at once the breath ceased . 
Magnus shot an inquiring glance at the surgeon . 
He is dead , Mr. Derrick , the surgeon replied . 
God help me and forgive me , he groaned . 
Presley rushed from the house , beside himself with grief , with horror , with pity , and with mad , insensate rage . 
On the porch outside Caraher met him . 
Is he is he began the saloon keeper . 
Yes , he's dead , cried Presley . 
They're all dead , murdered , shot down , dead , dead , all of them . 
Whose turn is next ? That's the way they killed my wife , Presley . 
Caraher , cried Presley , give me your hand . 
I've been wrong all the time . 
All the world is wrong . 
You are the only one of us all who is right . 
I'm with you from now on . 
BY GOD , I TOO , I'M A RED ! In course of time , a farm wagon from Bonneville arrived at Hooven's . 
The bodies of Annixter and Harran were placed in it , and it drove down the Lower Road towards the Los Muertos ranch houses . 
The bodies of Delaney and Christian had already been carried to Guadalajara and thence taken by train to Bonneville . 
Hilma followed the farm wagon in the Derricks' carry all , with Magnus and his wife . 
During all that ride none of them spoke a word . 
It had been arranged that , since Quien Sabe was in the hands of the Railroad , Hilma should come to Los Muertos . 
To that place also Annixter's body was carried . 
The initial excitement of the affair of the irrigating ditch had died down the crowd long since had dispersed . 
By the time the wagon passed Caraher's saloon , the sun had set . 
Towards midnight of that same day , Mrs. Dyke was awakened by the sounds of groaning in the room next to hers . 
Though , he warned them , it is precarious hospitality at the best . 
Aroused a few hours later by the sounds of a distress that was physical , as well as mental , Mrs. Dyke hurried into Hilma's room , carrying the lamp with her . 
Mrs. Dyke needed no enlightenment . 
She woke Presley and besought him to telephone to Bonneville at once , summoning a doctor . 
That night Hilma in great pain suffered a miscarriage . 
Presley did not close his eyes once during the night he did not even remove his clothes . 
Horror weighed intolerably upon him . 
Harran dead , Annixter dead , Broderson dead , Osterman , perhaps , even at that moment dying . 
Why , these men had made up his world . 
Annixter had been his best friend , Harran , his almost daily companion Broderson and Osterman were familiar to him as brothers . 
They were all his associates , his good friends , the group was his environment , belonging to his daily life . 
And he , standing there in the dust of the road by the irrigating ditch , had seen them shot . 
Thus he wrote Dabney dead , Hooven dead , Harran dead , Annixter dead , Broderson dead , Osterman dying , S. Behrman alive , successful the Railroad in possession of Quien Sabe . 
Not twelve hours since I stood there at the irrigating ditch . 
These things , I have seen them . 
The picture of this day's work is from henceforth part of my mind , part of ME . 
They have done it , S. Behrman and the owners of the railroad have done it , while all the world looked on , while the people of these United States looked on . 
Oh , come now and try your theories upon us , us of the ranchos , us , who have suffered , us , who KNOW . 
Oh , talk to US now of the 'rights of Capital , talk to US of the Trust , talk to US of the 'equilibrium between the classes . 
Try your ingenious ideas upon us . 
I cannot tell whether or not your theories are excellent . 
I do not know if your ideas are plausible . 
I do not know how practical is your scheme of society . 
I can see the outcome . 
The Trust will overpower us . 
Make the people believe that the faint tremour in their great engine is a menace to its function ? What a folly to think of it . 
Tell them of the danger and they will laugh at you . 
Tell them , five years from now , the story of the fight between the League of the San Joaquin and the Railroad and it will not be believed . 
What ! a pitched battle between Farmer and Railroad , a battle that cost the lives of seven men ? Impossible , it could not have happened . 
Your story is fiction is exaggerated . 
Yet it is Lexington God help us , God enlighten us , God rouse us from our lethargy it is Lexington farmers with guns in their hands fighting for Liberty . 
You offer your starved wives to Juggernaut for the iron nail you have yourselves compounded . 
Morning came and with it the daily papers and news . 
Presley did not even glance at the Mercury . 
Bonneville published two other daily journals that professed to voice the will and reflect the temper of the people and these he read eagerly . 
Osterman was yet alive and there were chances of his recovery . 
Furthermore , the Leaguers had issued manifestoes , urging all citizens to preserve law and order , yet summoning an indignation meeting to be convened that afternoon at the City Opera House . 
The ranchers could settle with Washington . 
But to Presley's mind the most important piece of news that morning was the report of the action of the Railroad upon hearing of the battle . 
Instantly Bonneville had been isolated . 
Not a single local train was running , not one of the through trains made any halt at the station . 
The mails were not moved . 
An hour before breakfast , the undertakers arrived and took charge of the bodies of Harran and Annixter . 
Presley saw neither Hilma , Magnus , nor Mrs. Derrick . 
The doctor came to look after Hilma . 
He breakfasted with Mrs. Dyke and Presley , and from him Presley learned that Hilma would recover both from the shock of her husband's death and from her miscarriage of the previous night . 
She ought to have her mother with her , said the physician . 
She does nothing but call for her or beg to be allowed to go to her . 
But Presley found that it was impossible for him to stay at Los Muertos that day . 
Gloom and the shadow of tragedy brooded heavy over the place . 
A great silence pervaded everything , a silence broken only by the subdued coming and going of the undertaker and his assistants . 
When Presley , having resolved to go into Bonneville , came out through the doorway of the house , he found the undertaker tying a long strip of crape to the bell handle . 
Presley saddled his pony and rode into town . 
By this time , after long hours of continued reflection upon one subject , a sombre brooding malevolence , a deep seated desire of revenge , had grown big within his mind . 
The first numbness had passed off familiarity with what had been done had blunted the edge of horror , and now the impulse of retaliation prevailed . 
At first , the sullen anger of defeat , the sense of outrage , had only smouldered , but the more he brooded , the fiercer flamed his rage . 
Sudden paroxysms of wrath gripped him by the throat abrupt outbursts of fury injected his eyes with blood . 
He ground his teeth , his mouth filled with curses , his hands clenched till they grew white and bloodless . 
And this man was to crush Magnus Derrick had already stamped the life from such men as Harran and Annixter . 
Presley beat his forehead with his clenched fist as he rode on . 
No , he cried , no , kill him , kill him , kill him with my hands . 
The idea of it put him beside himself . 
cut , the ruin of Dyke , the seizure of Quien Sabe , the murder of Harran , the assassination of Annixter ! It was in such mood that he reached Caraher's . 
The saloon keeper had just opened his place and was standing in his doorway , smoking his pipe . 
Presley dismounted and went in and the two had a long talk . 
When , three hours later , Presley came out of the saloon and rode on towards Bonneville , his face was very pale , his lips shut tight , resolute , determined . 
His manner was that of a man whose mind is made up . 
There were few women in the throng , but hardly a single male inhabitant of either Bonneville or Guadalajara was absent . 
Men had even come from Visalia and Pixley . 
It was no longer the crowd of curiosity seekers that had thronged around Hooven's place by the irrigating ditch the People were no longer confused , bewildered . 
A full realisation of just what had been done the day before was clear now in the minds of all . 
Business was suspended nearly all the stores were closed . 
Since early morning the members of the League had put in an appearance and rode from point to point , their rifles across their saddle pommels . 
Hourly the crowd increased till shoulders touched and elbows , till free circulation became impeded , then congested , then impossible . 
The crowd , a solid mass , was wedged tight from store front to store front . 
And from all this throng , this single unit , this living , breathing organism the People there rose a droning , terrible note . 
Then , at length , about twelve o'clock , the movement of the throng assumed definite direction . 
It set towards the Opera House . 
Presley , who had left his pony at the City livery stable , found himself caught in the current and carried slowly forward in its direction . 
His arms were pinioned to his sides by the press , the crush against his body was all but rib cracking , he could hardly draw his breath . 
All around him rose and fell wave after wave of faces , hundreds upon hundreds , thousands upon thousands , red , lowering , sullen . 
All were set in one direction and slowly , slowly they advanced , crowding closer , till they almost touched one another . 
For reasons that were inexplicable , great , tumultuous heavings , like ground swells of an incoming tide , surged over and through the multitude . 
A mighty rush dashed Presley forward in its leap . 
In a twinkling the house was filled from stage to topmost gallery . 
The aisles were packed solid , even on the edge of the stage itself men were sitting , a black fringe on either side of the footlights . 
Garnett opened the meeting his speech was plain , straightforward , matter of fact . 
He simply told what had happened . 
He announced that certain resolutions were to be drawn up . 
He introduced the next speaker . 
This one pleaded for moderation . 
All along he had opposed the idea of armed resistance except as the very last resort . 
He deplored the terrible affair of yesterday . 
He begged the people to wait in patience , to attempt no more violence . 
He informed them that armed guards of the League were , at that moment , patrolling Los Muertos , Broderson's , and Osterman's . 
It was well known that the United States marshal confessed himself powerless to serve the writs . 
There would be no more bloodshed . 
We have had , he continued , bloodshed enough , and I want to say right here that I am not so sure but what yesterday's terrible affair might have been avoided . 
God knows that I sympathise , as do we all , in the affliction of our President . 
I am sorry for him . 
My heart goes out to him in this hour of distress , but , at the same time , the position of the League must be defined . 
We owe it to ourselves , we owe it to the people of this county . 
The League armed for the very purpose of preserving the peace , not of breaking it . 
If when the enemy appeared in our midst yesterday they had been met by six hundred rifles , it is not conceivable that the issue would have been forced . 
No fight would have ensued , and to day we would not have to mourn the deaths of four of our fellow citizens . 
A mistake has been made and we of the League must not be held responsible . 
The speaker sat down amidst loud applause from the Leaguers and less pronounced demonstrations on the part of the audience . 
A second Leaguer took his place , a tall , clumsy man , half rancher , half politician . 
I want to second what my colleague has just said , he began . 
It never was our intention to fire a single shot . 
No such absolute authority as was assumed yesterday was delegated to anybody . 
Our esteemed President is all right , but we all know that he is a man who loves authority and who likes to go his own gait without accounting to anybody . 
We the rest of us Leaguers never were informed as to what was going on . 
We supposed , of course , that watch was being kept on the Railroad so as we wouldn't be taken by surprise as we were yesterday . 
And it seems no watch was kept at all , or if there was , it was mighty ineffective . 
We ought to have had time to call out the whole League . 
I'M sorry for our President , too . 
No one is more so , but I want to put myself on record as believing he did a hasty and inconsiderate thing . 
If he had managed right , he could have had six hundred men to oppose the Railroad and there would not have been any gun fight or any killing . 
He DIDN'T manage right and there WAS a killing and I don't see as how the League ought to be held responsible . 
The speaker had no more than regained his seat when a man was seen pushing his way from the back of the stage towards Garnett . 
He handed the rancher a note , at the same time whispering in his ear . 
Garnett read the note , then came forward to the edge of the stage , holding up his hand . 
When the audience had fallen silent he said I have just received sad news . 
Our friend and fellow citizen , Mr. Osterman , died this morning between eleven and twelve o'clock . 
Instantly there was a roar . 
Every man in the building rose to his feet , shouting , gesticulating . 
The roar increased , the Opera House trembled to it , the gas jets in the lighted chandeliers vibrated to it . 
It was a raucous howl of execration , a bellow of rage , inarticulate , deafening . 
A tornado of confusion swept whirling from wall to wall and the madness of the moment seized irresistibly upon Presley . 
He forgot himself he no longer was master of his emotions or his impulses . 
One more dead , he cried , one more . 
Will you never listen to that command 'LET MY PEOPLE GO' ? Oh , that cry ringing down the ages . 
Hear it , hear it . 
It is the voice of the Lord God speaking in his prophets . 
It is the cry of the nations , the great voice of the centuries everywhere it is raised . 
The voice of God is the voice of the People . 
The people cry out 'Let us , the People , God's people , go . 
Caesar refused to listen and was stabbed in the Senate House . 
It will be the cry of the man on the street , the 'a la Bastille' that wakes the Red Terror and unleashes Revolution . 
Harassed , plundered , exasperated , desperate , the people will turn at last as they have turned so many , many times before . 
You , our lords , you , our task masters , you , our kings you have caught your Samson , you have made his strength your own . 
The audience , at first bewildered , confused by this unexpected invective , suddenly took fire at his last words . 
There was a roar of applause then , more significant than mere vociferation , Presley's listeners , as he began to speak again , grew suddenly silent . 
His next sentences were uttered in the midst of a profound stillness . 
They own us , these task masters of ours they own our homes , they own our legislatures . 
We cannot escape from them . 
We are told we can defeat them by the ballot box . 
They own the ballot box . 
We are told that we must look to the courts for redress they own the courts . 
We know them for what they are , ruffians in politics , ruffians in finance , ruffians in law , ruffians in trade , bribers , swindlers , and tricksters . 
We fought Lexington to free ourselves we fought Gettysburg to free others . 
Yet the yoke remains we have only shifted it to the other shoulder . 
Why , the fight is just beginning and so long as our conception of liberty remains as it is to day , it will continue . 
Oh , the farce of it , oh , the folly of it ! Liberty is NOT a crowned goddess , beautiful , in spotless garments , victorious , supreme . 
Freedom is NOT given free to any who ask Liberty is not born of the gods . 
She is a child of the People , born in the very height and heat of battle , born from death , stained with blood , grimed with powder . 
And she grows to be not a goddess , but a Fury , a fearful figure , slaying friend and foe alike , raging , insatiable , merciless , the Red Terror . 
Weak , shaking , scarcely knowing what he was about , he descended from the stage . 
A prolonged explosion of applause followed , the Opera House roaring to the roof , men cheering , stamping , waving their hats . 
But it was not intelligent applause . 
Instinctively as he made his way out , Presley knew that , after all , he had not once held the hearts of his audience . 
He had talked as he would have written for all his scorn of literature , he had been literary . 
The men who listened to him , ranchers , country people , store keepers , attentive though they were , were not once sympathetic . 
Vaguely they had felt that here was something which other men more educated would possibly consider eloquent . 
They applauded vociferously but perfunctorily , in order to appear to understand . 
Presley , for all his love of the people , saw clearly for one moment that he was an outsider to their minds . 
He had not helped them nor their cause in the least he never would . 
Disappointed , bewildered , ashamed , he made his way slowly from the Opera House and stood on the steps outside , thoughtful , his head bent . 
He had failed , thus he told himself . 
In that moment of crisis , that at the time he believed had been an inspiration , he had failed . 
The people would not consider him , would not believe that he could do them service . 
Then suddenly he seemed to remember . 
The resolute set of his lips returned once more . 
Pushing his way through the crowded streets , he went on towards the stable where he had left his pony . 
Meanwhile , in the Opera House , a great commotion had occurred . 
Only a sense of enormous responsibility , of gravest duty could have prevailed upon Magnus to have left his house and the dead body of his son that day . 
But he was the President of the League , and never since its organisation had a meeting of such importance as this one been held . 
He had been in command at the irrigating ditch the day before . 
It was he who had gathered the handful of Leaguers together . 
It was he who must bear the responsibility of the fight . 
When he had entered the Opera House , making his way down the central aisle towards the stage , a loud disturbance had broken out , partly applause , partly a meaningless uproar . 
Declining to take the chair of presiding officer which Garnett offered him , the Governor withdrew to an angle of the stage , where he was joined by Keast . 
This one , still unalterably devoted to Magnus , acquainted him briefly with the tenor of the speeches that had been made . 
I am ashamed of them , Governor , he protested indignantly , to lose their nerve now ! To fail you now ! it makes my blood boil . 
If you hadn't acted as you did , the whole county would have been grabbed by the Railroad . 
Get up , Governor , and bring 'em all up standing . 
Just tear 'em all to pieces , show 'em that you are the head , the boss . 
That killing yesterday has shaken the nerve clean out of them . 
For the instant the Governor was taken all aback . 
The cause was in danger . 
At the instant he was the President of the League only , the chief , the master . 
A royal anger surged within him , a wide , towering scorn of opposition . 
He would crush this disaffection in its incipiency , would vindicate himself and strengthen the cause at one and the same time . 
He stepped forward and stood in the speaker's place , turning partly toward the audience , partly toward the assembled Leaguers . 
Gentlemen of the League , he began , citizens of Bonneville But at once the silence in which the Governor had begun to speak was broken by a shout . 
It was as though his words had furnished a signal . 
That's what we want to hear about . 
A great confusion broke out . 
The first cry was repeated not only by the original speaker , but by a whole group of which he was but a part . 
Order , order , called Garnett , pounding with his gavel . 
The whole Opera House was in an uproar . 
But the interruption of the Governor's speech was evidently not unpremeditated . 
It began to look like a deliberate and planned attack . 
Persistently , doggedly , the group in the gallery vociferated Tell us how you bribed the delegates at Sacramento . 
Before you throw mud at the Railroad , let's see if you are clean yourself . 
Put 'em out , put 'em out . 
Briber , briber Magnus Derrick , unconvicted briber ! Put him out . 
If you have anything to say you will be afforded the opportunity , but if you do not let the gentleman proceed , the police will be called upon to put you out . 
Look out we don't call on them first to arrest your President for bribery . 
Here's the facts printed and proved . 
With the words , he stooped down and from under his seat dragged forth a great package of extra editions of the Bonneville Mercury , not an hour off the presses . 
Other equally large bundles of the paper appeared in the hands of the surrounding group . 
The strings were cut and in handfuls and armfuls the papers were flung out over the heads of the audience underneath . 
The air was full of the flutter of the newly printed sheets . 
Genslinger , after pocketing the Governor's hush money , had sold him out . 
Keast , one quiver of indignation , made his way back upon the stage . 
The Leaguers were in wild confusion . 
Half the assembly of them were on their feet , bewildered , shouting vaguely . 
From proscenium wall to foyer , the Opera House was a tumult of noise . 
The gleam of the thousands of the Mercury extras was like the flash of white caps on a troubled sea . 
Liars , he shouted , striving with all the power of his voice to dominate the clamour , liars and slanderers . 
Your paper is the paid organ of the corporation . 
You have not one shadow of proof to back you up . 
Where is he hiding ? If this is a lie , let him deny it . 
Let HIM DISPROVE the charge . 
Derrick , Derrick , thundered the Opera House . 
Where was Magnus ? He was not in sight upon the stage . 
Crowding through the throng of Leaguers , Keast got from off the stage into the wings . 
Here the crowd was no less dense . 
Nearly every one had a copy of the Mercury . 
In any case , it was done for our benefit . 
It elected the Ranchers' Commission . 
A lot of benefit we got out of the Ranchers' Commission , retorted the other . 
And then , protested a third speaker , that ain't the way to do if he DID do it bribing legislatures . 
Why , we were bucking against corrupt politics . 
We couldn't afford to be corrupt . 
Keast turned away with a gesture of impatience . 
He pushed his way farther on . 
At last , opening a small door in a hallway back of the stage , he came upon Magnus . 
It was a dressing room . 
Only two nights before it had been used by the leading actress of a comic opera troupe which had played for three nights at Bonneville . 
A tattered sofa and limping toilet table occupied a third of the space . 
The air was heavy with the smell of stale grease paint , ointments , and sachet . 
Faded photographs of young women in tights and gauzes ornamented the mirror and the walls . 
Underneath the sofa was an old pair of corsets . 
The spangled skirt of a pink dress , turned inside out , hung against the wall . 
Here , cried Keast , as he entered , closing the door behind him , where's the Governor ? Here , Magnus , I've been looking for you . 
The crowd has gone wild out there . 
You've got to talk 'em down . 
Come out there and give those blacklegs the lie . 
They are saying you are hiding . 
But before Magnus could reply , Garnett turned to Keast . 
Well , that's what we want him to do , and he won't do it . 
Yes , yes , cried the half dozen men who crowded around Magnus , yes , that's what we want him to do . 
Why , what's all this , Governor ? he exclaimed . 
You've got to answer that . 
Hey ? why don't you give 'em the lie ? I I , Magnus loosened the collar about his throat it is a lie . 
I will not stoop I would not would be it would be beneath my my it would be beneath me . 
It is a lie , isn't it ? That Commission was elected honestly , wasn't it ? How dare you , sir ! Magnus burst out . 
How dare you question me call me to account ! Please understand , sir , that I tolerate Oh , quit it ! cried a voice from the group . 
You can't scare us , Derrick . 
That sort of talk was well enough once , but it don't go any more . 
We want a yes or no answer . 
It was gone that old time power of mastery , that faculty of command . 
The ground crumbled beneath his feet . 
Long since it had been , by his own hand , undermined . 
His ranch would soon go his money was gone . 
Lyman was worse than dead . 
His own honour had been prostituted . 
Gone , gone , everything he held dear , gone , lost , and swept away in that fierce struggle . 
And suddenly and all in a moment the last remaining shells of the fabric of his being , the sham that had stood already wonderfully long , cracked and collapsed . 
Was the Commission honestly elected ? insisted Garnett . 
Were the delegates did you bribe the delegates ? We were obliged to shut our eyes to means , faltered Magnus . 
There was no other way to Then suddenly and with the last dregs of his resolution , he concluded with Yes , I gave them two thousand dollars each . 
Oh , hell ! Oh , my God ! exclaimed Keast , sitting swiftly down upon the ragged sofa . 
There was a long silence . 
A sense of poignant embarrassment descended upon those present . 
No one knew what to say or where to look . 
Garnett , with a laboured attempt at nonchalance , murmured I see . 
Well , that's what I was trying to get at . 
Well , said Gethings at length , bestirring himself , I guess I'LL go home . 
The group broke up , the men making for the door . 
One by one they went out . 
The last to go was Keast . 
He came up to Magnus and shook the Governor's limp hand . 
Good bye , Governor , he said . 
I'll see you again pretty soon . 
Don't let this discourage you . 
They'll come around all right after a while . 
He went out , shutting the door . 
It had come his fall , his ruin . 
Before nightfall of that day , Bonneville was further excited by an astonishing bit of news . 
S. Behrman lived in a detached house at some distance from the town , surrounded by a grove of live oak and eucalyptus trees . 
The room was wrecked and nearly every window of the house shattered . 
By a miracle , S. Behrman , himself , remained untouched . 
Have a glass of sherry . 
I always keep a bottle here . 
Presley accepted the wine and sank into the depths of a great leather chair near by . 
Yes , I have been sick . 
I'm gone to pieces , sir . 
His manner was the extreme of listlessness the listlessness of great fatigue . 
Well , well , observed the other . 
I'm right sorry to hear that . 
'Over cerebration , he says 'over excitement . 
I fancy I rather narrowly missed brain fever . 
Well , I can easily suppose it , answered Cedarquist gravely , after all you have been through . 
Presley closed his eyes they were sunken in circles of dark brown flesh and pressed a thin hand to the back of his head . 
It is a nightmare , he murmured . 
A frightful nightmare , and it's not over yet . 
You have heard of it all only through the newspaper reports . 
We had gone on hoping to the last that we would win there . 
We had thought that in the Supreme Court of the United States , at least , we could find justice . 
And the news of its decision was the worst , last blow of all . 
For Magnus it was the last positively the very last . 
Poor , poor Derrick , murmured Cedarquist . 
Tell me about him , Pres . 
How does he take it ? What is he going to do ? It beggars him , sir . 
He sunk a great deal more than any of us believed in his ranch , when he resolved to turn off most of the tenants and farm the ranch himself . 
Then the fight he made against the Railroad in the Courts and the political campaign he went into , to get Lyman on the Railroad Commission , took more of it . 
The money that Genslinger blackmailed him of , it seems , was about all he had left . 
He had been gambling you know the Governor on another bonanza crop this year to recoup him . 
Well , the bonanza came right enough just in time for S. Behrman and the Railroad to grab it . 
What a tragedy ! what a tragedy ! murmured the other . 
Lyman turning rascal , Harran killed , and now this and all within so short a time all at the SAME time , you might almost say . 
If it had only killed him , continued Presley but that is the worst of it . 
How the worst ? I'm afraid , honestly , I'm afraid it is going to turn his wits , sir . 
It's broken him oh , you should see him , you should see him . 
A shambling , stooping , trembling old man , in his dotage already . 
He sits all day in the dining room , turning over papers , sorting them , tying them up , opening them again , forgetting them all fumbling and mumbling and confused . 
And at table sometimes he forgets to eat . 
And , listen , you know , from the house we can hear the trains whistling for the Long Trestle . 
As often as that happens the Governor seems to be oh , I don't know , frightened . 
He will sink his head between his shoulders , as though he were dodging something , and he won't fetch a long breath again till the train is out of hearing . 
He seems to have conceived an abject , unreasoned terror of the Railroad . 
But he will have to leave Los Muertos now , of course ? Yes , they will all have to leave . 
They have a fortnight more . 
The few tenants that were still on Los Muertos are leaving . 
That is one thing that brings me to the city . 
The family of one of the men who was killed Hooven was his name have come to the city to find work . 
I think they are liable to be in great distress , unless they have been wonderfully lucky , and I am trying to find them in order to look after them . 
You need looking after yourself , Pres . 
Oh , once away from Bonneville and the sight of the ruin there , I'm better . 
But I intend to go away . 
And that makes me think , I came to ask you if you could help me . 
If you would let me take passage on one of your wheat ships . 
The Doctor says an ocean voyage would set me up . 
Why , certainly , Pres , declared Cedarquist . 
But I'm sorry you'll have to go . 
We expected to have you down in the country with us this winter . 
Even if I had all my health , I could not bring myself to stay in California just now . 
If you can introduce me to one of your captains With pleasure . 
When do you want to go ? You may have to wait a few weeks . 
Our first ship won't clear till the end of the month . 
That would do very well . 
The League went all to pieces , so soon as Magnus was forced to resign . 
The old story they got quarrelling among themselves . 
Somebody started a compromise party , and upon that issue a new president was elected . 
And , of course , once signing the lease , they acknowledged the Railroad's title . 
But the road would not lease to Magnus . 
S. Behrman takes over Los Muertos in a few weeks now . 
No doubt , the road made over their title in the property to him , observed Cedarquist , as a reward of his services . 
No doubt , murmured Presley wearily . 
I'm afraid I shall be very poor company , sir , hazarded Presley . 
There's no 'go , no life in me at all these days . 
I am like a clock with a broken spring . 
Not broken , Pres , my boy urged the other , only run down . 
Try and see if we can't wind you up a bit . 
Say that we can expect you . 
Till Friday at seven , then . 
by a messenger boy , and boarded a Castro Street car . 
Before leaving Bonneville , he had ascertained , by strenuous enquiry , Mrs. Hooven's address in the city , and thitherward he now directed his steps . 
When Presley had told Cedarquist that he was ill , that he was jaded , worn out , he had only told half the truth . 
Once only he had ACTED . 
And at this moment , as he was carried through the windy , squalid streets , he trembled at the remembrance of it . 
The horror of what might have been incompatible with the vengeance whose minister he fancied he was , oppressed him . 
The scene perpetually reconstructed itself in his imagination . 
Then had come the appearance in the glare of the gas of the figure of the man for whom he waited . 
He saw himself rise and run forward . 
He remembered the feel and weight in his hand of Caraher's bomb the six inches of plugged gas pipe . 
His upraised arm shot forward . 
But morning had come , and with it the knowledge that he had failed , and the baser assurance that he was not even remotely suspected . 
After this , however , there had come to Presley a deep rooted suspicion that he was of all human beings , the most wretched a failure . 
Presley only learned of the departure of the family after fifteen days had elapsed . 
This suspicion had swiftly hardened to a conviction , acting at last upon which Presley had followed them to San Francisco , bent upon finding and assisting them . 
The house to which Presley was led by the address in his memorandum book was a cheap but fairly decent hotel near the power house of the Castro Street cable . 
He inquired for Mrs. Hooven . 
The landlady recollected the Hoovens perfectly . 
German woman , with a little girl baby , and an older daughter , sure . 
The older daughter was main pretty . 
Sure I remember them , but they ain't here no more . 
They left a week ago . 
I had to ask them for their room . 
As it was , they owed a week's room rent . 
Their trunk , ah , sure . 
I got their trunk , and what are you going to do about it ? I'm holding it till I get my money . 
What have you got to say about it ? Let's hear it . 
Presley turned away with a gesture of discouragement , his heart sinking . 
On the street corner he stood for a long time , frowning in trouble and perplexity . 
His suspicions had been only too well founded . 
So long ago as a week , the Hoovens had exhausted all their little store of money . 
Seven days without money , knowing not a soul in all that swarming city . 
The building contained the General Office of the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad . 
Large though it was , it nevertheless , was not pretentious , and during his visits to the city , Presley must have passed it , unheeding , many times . 
Instantly , upon the realisation of this fact an ungovernable desire seized upon Presley , an inordinate curiosity . 
By reputation he knew him to be approachable why should he not then approach him ? Presley took his resolution in both hands . 
If he failed to act upon this impulse , he knew he would never act at all . 
In the end , Presley had been surprised to find that Shelgrim was still in . 
It was already very late , after six o'clock , and the other offices in the building were in the act of closing . 
Many of them were already deserted . 
Shelgrim , it seemed , still remained at his desk , knowing no fatigue , requiring no leisure . 
What time does Mr. Shelgrim usually go home ? inquired Presley of the young man who sat ruling forms at the table in the ante room . 
Anywhere between half past six and seven , the other answered , adding , Very often he comes back in the evening . 
And the man was seventy years old . 
Presley could not repress a murmur of astonishment . 
Not only mentally , then , was the President of the P. and S. W. a giant . 
But the next instant Presley set his teeth . 
It is an ogre's vitality , he said to himself . 
Just so is the man eating tiger strong . 
The man should have energy who has sucked the life blood from an entire People . 
A little electric bell on the wall near at hand trilled a warning . 
Presley entered a large , well lighted , but singularly barren office . 
A well worn carpet was on the floor , two steel engravings hung against the wall , an extra chair or two stood near a large , plain , littered table . 
That was absolutely all , unless he excepted the corner wash stand , on which was set a pitcher of ice water , covered with a clean , stiff napkin . 
A man , evidently some sort of manager's assistant , stood at the end of the table , leaning on the back of one of the chairs . 
Shelgrim himself sat at the table . 
He was large , almost to massiveness . 
An iron grey beard and a mustache that completely hid the mouth covered the lower part of his face . 
His eyes were a pale blue , and a little watery here and there upon his face were moth spots . 
But the enormous breadth of the shoulders was what , at first , most vividly forced itself upon Presley's notice . 
At the top this waistcoat was unbuttoned and in the shirt front disclosed were two pearl studs . 
Presley , uninvited , unnoticed apparently , sat down . 
The assistant manager was in the act of making a report . 
His voice was not lowered , and Presley heard every word that was spoken . 
It concerned a book keeper in the office of the auditor of disbursements . 
It seems he was at most times thoroughly reliable , hard working , industrious , ambitious . 
But at long intervals the vice of drunkenness seized upon the man and for three days rode him like a hag . 
Not only during the period of this intemperance , but for the few days immediately following , the man was useless , his work untrustworthy . 
He was a family man and earnestly strove to rid himself of his habit he was , when sober , valuable . 
In consideration of these facts , he had been pardoned again and again . 
You remember , Mr. Shelgrim , observed the manager , that you have more than once interfered in his behalf , when we were disposed to let him go . 
I don't think we can do anything with him , sir . 
He promises to reform continually , but it is the same old story . 
This last time we saw nothing of him for four days . 
Honestly , Mr. Shelgrim , I think we ought to let Tentell out . 
We can't afford to keep him . 
He is really losing us too much money . 
Here's the order ready now , if you care to let it go . 
Presley all attention , listened breathlessly . 
The assistant manager laid before his President the typewritten order in question . 
The silence lengthened in the hall outside , the wrought iron door of the elevator cage slid to with a clash . 
Shelgrim did not look at the order . 
He turned his swivel chair about and faced the windows behind him , looking out with unseeing eyes . 
At last he spoke Tentell has a family , wife and three children . 
How much do we pay him ? One hundred and thirty . 
Let's double that , or say two hundred and fifty . 
Let's see how that will do . 
Why of course if you say so , but really , Mr. Shelgrim Well , we'll try that , anyhow . 
Presley had not time to readjust his perspective to this new point of view of the President of the P. and S. W. before the assistant manager had withdrawn . 
Shelgrim wrote a few memoranda on his calendar pad , and signed a couple of letters before turning his attention to Presley . 
At last , he looked up and fixed the young man with a direct , grave glance . 
It was some time before he spoke . 
At last , he said Well , sir . 
Presley advanced and took a chair nearer at hand . 
Shelgrim turned and from his desk picked up and consulted Presley's card . 
Presley observed that he read without the use of glasses . 
You , he said , again facing about , you are the young man who wrote the poem called 'The Toilers . 
It seems to have made a great deal of talk . 
I've read it , and I've seen the picture in Cedarquist's house , the picture you took the idea from . 
Presley , his senses never more alive , observed that , curiously enough , Shelgrim did not move his body . 
A saucer of shelled filberts stood near his elbow , and from time to time he picked up one of these in a great thumb and forefinger and put it between his teeth . 
I've seen the picture called 'The Toilers , continued Shelgrim , and of the two , I like the picture better than the poem . 
The picture is by a master , Presley hastened to interpose . 
And for that reason , said Shelgrim , it leaves nothing more to be said . 
You might just as well have kept quiet . 
There's only one best way to say anything . 
And what has made the picture of 'The Toilers' great is that the artist said in it the BEST that could be said on the subject . 
I had never looked at it in just that light , observed Presley . 
He was confused , all at sea , embarrassed . 
What he had expected to find in Shelgrim , he could not have exactly said . 
But he had been prepared to come upon an ogre , a brute , a terrible man of blood and iron , and instead had discovered a sentimentalist and an art critic . 
I had never looked at it in just that light , repeated Presley . 
There is a great deal in what you say . 
If I am to listen , continued Shelgrim , to that kind of talk , I prefer to listen to it first hand . 
I would rather listen to what the great French painter has to say , than to what YOU have to say about what he has already said . 
Also at times there was the faintest suggestion of a lisp . 
I wrote that poem , hazarded Presley , at a time when I was terribly upset . 
I live , he concluded , or did live on the Los Muertos ranch in Tulare County Magnus Derrick's ranch . 
The Railroad's ranch LEASED to Mr. Derrick , observed Shelgrim . 
Presley spread out his hands with a helpless , resigned gesture . 
And , continued the President of the P. and S. W. with grave intensity , looking at Presley keenly , I suppose you believe I am a grand old rascal . 
I believe , answered Presley , I am persuaded He hesitated , searching for his words . 
Believe this , young man , exclaimed Shelgrim , laying a thick powerful forefinger on the table to emphasise his words , try to believe this to begin with THAT RAILROADS BUILD THEMSELVES . 
Where there is a demand sooner or later there will be a supply . 
Mr. Derrick , does he grow his wheat ? The Wheat grows itself . 
There is the Wheat , the supply . 
It must be carried to feed the People . 
The Wheat is one force , the Railroad , another , and there is the law that governs them supply and demand . 
Men have only little to do in the whole business . 
Complications may arise , conditions that bear hard on the individual crush him maybe BUT THE WHEAT WILL BE CARRIED TO FEED THE PEOPLE as inevitably as it will grow . 
If you want to fasten the blame of the affair at Los Muertos on any one person , you will make a mistake . 
Blame conditions , not men . 
But but , faltered Presley , you are the head , you control the road . 
You are a very young man . 
Control the road ! Can I stop it ? I can go into bankruptcy if you like . 
But otherwise if I run my road , as a business proposition , I can do nothing . 
I can not control it . 
It is a force born out of certain conditions , and I no man can stop it or control it . 
Can any one stop the Wheat ? Well , then no more can I stop the Road . 
Presley regained the street stupefied , his brain in a whirl . 
This new idea , this new conception dumfounded him . 
Somehow , he could not deny it . 
It rang with the clear reverberation of truth . 
Colossal indifference only , a vast trend toward appointed goals . 
He went to his club and ate his supper alone , in gloomy agitation . 
He was sombre , brooding , lost in a dark maze of gloomy reflections . 
However , just as he was rising from the table an incident occurred that for the moment roused him and sharply diverted his mind . 
His table had been placed near a window and as he was sipping his after dinner coffee , he happened to glance across the street . 
His eye was at once caught by the sight of a familiar figure . 
Was it Minna Hooven ? The figure turned the street corner and was lost to sight but it had been strangely like . 
On the moment , Presley had risen from the table and , clapping on his hat , had hurried into the streets , where the lamps were already beginning to shine . 
But search though he would , Presley could not again come upon the young woman , in whom he fancied he had seen the daughter of the unfortunate German . 
But none the less , Presley had not been mistaken . 
The girl whom he had tried to follow had been indeed Minna Hooven . 
She had never before been in any town larger than Bonneville , and now knew not which way to turn nor how to account for the disappearance of her mother and little Hilda . 
Of this she reminded the land lady . 
But this latter at once launched upon her such a torrent of vituperation , that the girl was frightened to speechless submission . 
Oh , oh , she faltered , I know . 
I know we owe you money , but where did my mother go ? I only want to find her . 
Oh , I ain't going to be bothered , shrilled the other . 
This the landlady had lost . 
To cover her confusion , she affected a vast indignation , and a turbulent , irascible demeanour . 
I ain't going to be bothered with such cattle as you , she vociferated in Minna's face . 
I don't know where your folks is . 
Me , I only have dealings with honest people . 
I ain't got a word to say so long as the rent is paid . 
But when I'm soldiered out of a week's lodging , then I'm done . 
You get right along now . 
I ain't going to have my place get a bad name by having any South of Market Street chippies hanging around . 
You get along , or I'll call an officer . 
Minna sought the street , her head in a whirl . 
It was about five o'clock . 
In her pocket was thirty five cents , all she had in the world . 
Her first few days' experience in the matter of finding employment , had taught her just what she might expect from this new world upon which she had been thrown . 
But she rallied herself , as she walked along . 
The idea of her starving , of her mother and Hilda starving , was out of all reason . 
Of course , it would not come to that , of course not . 
It was not thus that starvation came . 
Something would happen , of course , it would in time . 
But meanwhile , meanwhile , how to get through this approaching night , and the next few days . 
That was the thing to think of just now . 
The suddenness of it all was what most unnerved her . 
During all the nineteen years of her life , she had never known what it meant to shift for herself . 
Her father had always sufficed for the family he had taken care of her , then , all of a sudden , her father had been killed , her mother snatched from her . 
Then all of a sudden there was no help anywhere . 
She was , in an unusual fashion , pretty . 
Even her troubles had not dimmed the bright light of her pale , greenish blue eyes , nor faded the astonishing redness of her lips , nor hollowed her strangely white face . 
Her blue black hair was trim . 
She carried her well shaped , well rounded figure erectly . 
Even in her distress , she observed that men looked keenly at her , and sometimes after her as she went along . 
But this she noted with a dim sub conscious faculty . 
On the corner of California and Dupont streets , she stood a long moment , pondering . 
I MUST do something , she said to herself . 
She was tired out by now , and the idea occurred to her to enter the Catholic church in whose shadow she stood , and sit down and rest . 
The evening service was just being concluded . 
But long after the priests and altar boys had departed from the chancel , Minna still sat in the dim , echoing interior , confronting her desperate situation as best she might . 
Two or three hours later , the sexton woke her . 
The church was being closed she must leave . 
She began to be hungry , and , at length , yielding to the demand that every moment grew more imperious , bought and eagerly devoured a five cent bag of fruit . 
Then , once more she took up the round of walking . 
It was dark , gloomy , dirty , a place suggestive of obscure crimes and hidden terrors . 
For twenty minutes or half an hour , she hesitated , walking twice and three times around the block . 
At last , she made up her mind . 
Exhaustion such as she had never known , weighed like lead upon her shoulders and dragged at her heels . 
She could not walk the streets all night . 
She entered the door way under the sign , and found her way up a filthy flight of stairs . 
At the top , a man in a blue checked jumper was filling a lamp behind a high desk . 
I should like , she faltered , to have a room a bed for the night . 
One of those for fifteen cents will be good enough , I think . 
Well , this place is only for men , said the man , looking up from the lamp . 
Oh , said Minna , oh I I didn't know . 
She looked at him stupidly , and he , with equal stupidity , returned the gaze . 
Thus , for a long moment , they held each other's eyes . 
I I didn't know , repeated Minna . 
Yes , it's for men , repeated the other . 
She slowly descended the stairs , and once more came out upon the streets . 
Morning came , and with it renewed hunger . 
At this time , she had found her way uptown again , and towards ten o'clock was sitting upon a bench in a little park full of nurse maids and children . 
A group of the maids drew their baby buggies to Minna's bench , and sat down , continuing a conversation they had already begun . 
A friend of one of the maids had suddenly thrown up her position , leaving her madame in what would appear to have been deserved embarrassment . 
Oh , said Minna , breaking in , and lying with sudden unwonted fluency , I am a nurse girl . 
I am out of a place . 
Do you think I could get that one ? The group turned and fixed her so evidently a country girl with a supercilious indifference . 
Well , you might try , said one of them . 
Got good references ? References ? repeated Minna blankly . 
She did not know what this meant . 
Oh , Mrs. Field ain't the kind to stick about references , spoke up the other , she's that soft . 
Why , anybody could work her . 
I'll go there , said Minna . 
Have you the address ? It was told to her . 
Is that out of town ? Well , it's across the Bay . 
You're from the country , ain't you ? Yes . 
How how do I get there ? Is it far ? Well , you take the ferry at the foot of Market Street , and then the train on the other side . 
No , it ain't very far . 
Just ask any one down there . 
It was a chance but Minna , after walking down to the ferry slips , found that the round trip would cost her twenty cents . 
If the journey proved fruitless , only a dime would stand between her and the end of everything . 
But it was a chance the only one that had , as yet , presented itself . 
She seemed to see them in every direction . 
She fancied herself surrounded upon every hand by the long arms of the monster . 
Minute after minute , her hunger gnawed at her . 
She could not keep her mind from it . 
Her heart warmed at the sight of it . 
Oh , to find a little niche for herself here , a home , a refuge from those horrible city streets , from the rat of famine , with its relentless tooth . 
How she would work , how strenuously she would endeavour to please , how patient of rebuke she would be , how faithful , how conscientious . 
Nor were her pretensions altogether false upon her , while at home , had devolved almost continually the care of the baby Hilda , her little sister . 
She knew the wants and needs of children . 
Her heart beating , her breath failing , she rang the bell set squarely in the middle of the front door . 
The lady of the house herself , an elderly lady , with pleasant , kindly face , opened the door . 
But I have already engaged a girl , she said . 
Oh , murmured Minna , striving with all her might to maintain appearances . 
Oh I thought perhaps She turned away . 
I'm sorry , said the lady . 
Then she added , Would you care to look after so many as three little children , and help around in light housework between whiles ? Yes , ma'am . 
Because my sister she lives in North Berkeley , above here she's looking far a girl . 
Have you had lots of experience ? Got good references ? Yes , ma'am . 
Well , I'll give you the address . 
She lives up in North Berkeley . 
She turned back into the house a moment , and returned , handing Minna a card . 
That's where she lives careful not to BLOT it , child , the ink's wet yet you had better see her . 
Is it far ? Could I walk there ? My , no you better take the electric cars , about six blocks above here . 
When Minna arrived in North Berkeley , she had no money left . 
She was now to try her last hope . 
Was this the end coming on ? Terror of death aroused her . 
I MUST , I MUST do something , oh , anything . 
I must have something to eat . 
At last , she entered what seemed to be , if not a park , at least some sort of public enclosure . 
There were many trees the place was beautiful well kept roads and walks led sinuously and invitingly underneath the shade . 
Through the trees upon the other side of a wide expanse of turf , brown and sear under the summer sun , she caught a glimpse of tall buildings and a flagstaff . 
She went on a little further . 
The path she was following led her , at length , into a grove of gigantic live oaks , whose lower branches all but swept the ground . 
Here the grass was green , the few flowers in bloom , the shade very thick . 
A more lovely spot she had seldom seen . 
But once seated , the demands of the animal so she could believe became more clamorous , more insistent . 
The woman was gowned in silk , tightly corseted , and wore a hat of rather ostentatious smartness . 
Here is a coincidence , exclaimed the new comer , as she sat down surely you are the young girl who sat opposite me on the boat . 
Strange I should come across you again . 
I've had you in mind ever since . 
On this nearer view Minna observed that the woman's face bore rather more than a trace of enamel and that the atmosphere about was impregnated with sachet . 
Do you know , continued the woman , I believe you are in trouble . 
I thought so when I saw you on the boat , and I think so now . 
I've been trying to find a situation , she hazarded in conclusion , but I don't seem to succeed . 
I've never been in a city before , except Bonneville . 
Well , it IS a coincidence , said the other . 
I know I wasn't drawn to you for nothing . 
I am looking for just such a young girl as you . 
You see , I live alone a good deal and I've been wanting to find a nice , bright , sociable girl who will be a sort of COMPANION to me . 
Understand ? And there's something about you that I like . 
I took to you the moment I saw you on the boat . 
Ah , he cried , coming toward her joyfully . 
Upon my word , I had almost given you up . 
I've been looking everywhere for you . 
I was afraid you might not be getting along , and I wanted to see if there was anything I could do . 
How are your mother and Hilda ? Where are you stopping ? Have you got a good place ? I don't know where mamma is , answered Minna . 
We got separated , and I never have been able to find her again . 
Meanwhile , Presley had been taking in with a quick eye the details of Minna's silk dress , with its garniture of lace , its edging of velvet , its silver belt buckle . 
He glanced at her sharply . 
Well , but but how are you getting on ? he demanded . 
Oh , I'VE gone to hell . 
It was either that or starvation . 
Presley regained his room at the club , white and trembling . 
Worse than the worst he had feared had happened . 
He had not been soon enough to help . 
A superstitious fear assailed him that he was , in a manner , marked that he was foredoomed to fail . 
Minna had come had been driven to this and he , acting too late upon his tardy resolve , had not been able to prevent it . 
He wanted to get away , to be free from that endless misery , so that he might not see what he could no longer help . 
Cowardly he now knew himself to be . 
He thought of himself only with loathing . 
Bitterly self contemptuous that he could bring himself to a participation in such trivialities , he began to dress to keep his engagement to dine with the Cedarquists . 
She was dressed as if to go out . 
My DEAR Presley , she exclaimed , her stout , over dressed body bustling toward him with a great rustle of silk . 
I never was so glad . 
You poor , dear poet , you are thin as a ghost . 
You need a better dinner than I can give you , and that is just what you are to have . 
Have I blundered ? Presley hastened to exclaim . 
Did not Mr. Cedarquist mention Friday evening ? No , no , no , she cried it was he who blundered . 
But I wouldn't hear of his wiring you . 
So , there it is , all settled . 
Cedarquist and the girls are gone on ahead , and you are to take the old lady like a dear , dear poet . 
I believe I hear the carriage . 
Fancy , you will be in the camp of your dearest foes . 
You are to dine with the Gerard people , one of the Vice Presidents of your bete noir , the P. and S. W. Railroad . 
Presley started , his fists clenching so abruptly as to all but split his white gloves . 
He was not conscious of what he said in reply , and Mrs. Cedarquist was so taken up with her own endless stream of talk that she did not observe his confusion . 
Have you ever seen Honora ? The prettiest little thing , and will she be rich ? Millions , I would not dare say how many . 
The coupe drew up to the curb , and Presley followed Mrs. Cedarquist up the steps to the massive doors of the great house . 
He entered , collecting his wits for the introductions and presentations that he foresaw impended . 
The room was very large , and of excessive loftiness . 
The ceiling itself , instead of joining the walls at right angles , curved to meet them , a device that produced a sort of dome like effect . 
Between the pillars around the sides of the room were hangings of silk , the design of a Louis Quinze type of beautiful simplicity and faultless taste . 
The fireplace was a marvel . 
It reached from floor to ceiling the lower parts , black marble , carved into crouching Atlases , with great muscles that upbore the superstructure . 
The design of this latter , of a kind of purple marble , shot through with white veinings , was in the same style as the design of the silk hangings . 
In its midst was a bronze escutcheon , bearing an undecipherable monogram and a Latin motto . 
Andirons of brass , nearly six feet high , flanked the hearthstone . 
The windows of the room were heavily draped in sombre brocade and ecru lace , in which the initials of the family were very beautifully worked . 
But directly opposite the fireplace , an extra window , lighted from the adjoining conservatory , threw a wonderful , rich light into the apartment . 
It was a Gothic window of stained glass , very large , the centre figures being armed warriors , Parsifal and Lohengrin the one with a banner , the other with a swan . 
and rugs of silk velvet were spread upon the floor . 
A faint odour of sandalwood pervaded the air . 
From the conservatory near by , came the splashing of a fountain . 
This is Mr. Presley , of course , our new poet of whom we are all so proud . 
I was so afraid you would be unable to come . 
You have given me a real pleasure in allowing me to welcome you here . 
The footman appeared at her elbow . 
Dinner is served , madame , he announced . 
When Mrs. Hooven had left the boarding house on Castro Street , she had taken up a position on a neighbouring corner , to wait for Minna's reappearance . 
Little Hilda , at this time hardly more than six years of age , was with her , holding to her hand . 
Mrs. Hooven was by no means an old woman , but hard work had aged her . 
She no longer had any claim to good looks . 
She no longer took much interest in her personal appearance . 
At the time of her eviction from the Castro Street boarding house , she wore a faded black bonnet , garnished with faded artificial flowers of dirty pink . 
A plaid shawl was about her shoulders . 
But this day of misfortune had set Mrs. Hooven adrift in even worse condition than her daughter . 
Her purse , containing a miserable handful of dimes and nickels , was in her trunk , and her trunk was in the hands of the landlady . 
Minna had been allowed such reprieve as her thirty five cents would purchase . 
The destitution of Mrs. Hooven and her little girl had begun from the very moment of her eviction . 
Minna had had little assurance in facing the life struggle of the city . 
Mrs. Hooven had absolutely none . 
She was dumb , bewildered , stupid , animated but by a single impulse . 
She clung to life , and to the life of her little daughter Hilda , with the blind tenacity of purpose of a drowning cat . 
Thus , when ordered to move on by the officer , she had silently obeyed , not even attempting to explain her situation . 
She walked away to the next street crossing . 
Once more , the officer ordered her away , and once more , unprotesting , she complied . 
But when for the third time the policeman found her on the forbidden spot , he had lost his temper . 
This time when Mrs. Hooven departed , he had followed her , and when , bewildered , persistent , she had attempted to turn back , he caught her by the shoulder . 
Do you want to get arrested , hey ? he demanded . 
Do you want me to lock you up ? Say , do you , speak up ? The ominous words at length reached Mrs. Hooven's comprehension . 
Arrested ! She was to be arrested . 
The countrywoman's fear of the Jail nipped and bit eagerly at her unwilling heels . 
She hurried off , thinking to return to her post after the policeman should have gone away . 
But when , at length , turning back , she tried to find the boarding house , she suddenly discovered that she was on an unfamiliar street . 
Unwittingly , no doubt , she had turned a corner . 
She could not retrace her steps . 
She and Hilda were lost . 
Mammy , I'm tired , Hilda complained . 
Her mother picked her up . 
Where was Minna where was she and her baby to sleep that night ? How was Hilda to be fed ? She could not stand still . 
There was no place to sit down but one thing was left , walk . 
Ah , that via dolorosa of the destitute , that chemin de la croix of the homeless . 
Ah , the mile after mile of granite pavement that MUST be , MUST be traversed . 
Move , they must onward , forward , whither they cannot tell why , they do not know . 
Death is at the end of that devious , winding maze of paths , crossed and re crossed and crossed again . 
There is but one goal to the via dolorosa there is no escape from the central chamber of that labyrinth . 
Fate guides the feet of them that are set therein . 
Sometimes leading and sometimes carrying Hilda , Mrs. Hooven set off upon her objectless journey . 
Block after block she walked , street after street . 
She was afraid to stop , because of the policemen . 
Mammy , where're we gowun ? Mammy , I'm tired . 
Then , at last , for the first time , that plaint that stabbed the mother's heart Mammy , I'm hungry . 
Be qui ut , den , said Mrs. Hooven . 
Bretty soon we'll hev der subber . 
Passers by on the sidewalk , men and women in the great six o'clock homeward march , jostled them as they went along . 
With dumb , dull curiousness , she looked into one after another of the limitless stream of faces , and she fancied she saw in them every emotion but pity . 
The expressions of the faces might be various , but an underlying callousness was discoverable beneath every mask . 
The people seemed removed from her immeasurably they were infinitely above her . 
There was no pride , however , in the matter . 
She would have as readily asked alms of so many sphinxes . 
Without willing it , her feet carried her in a wide circle . 
Soon she began to recognise the houses she had been in that street before . 
Somehow , this was distasteful to her so , striking off at right angles , she walked straight before her for over a dozen blocks . 
By now , it was growing darker . 
The hands of a clock on the power house of a cable line pointed to seven . 
Here was misfortune indeed here was calamity . 
She bestirred herself , and remembered the address of the boarding house . 
She might inquire her way back thither . 
No doubt , by now the policeman would be gone home for the night . 
She was in the district of modest residences , and a young man was coming toward her , carrying a new garden hose looped around his shoulder . 
Say , Meest'r say , blease The young man gave her a quick look and passed on , hitching the coil of hose over his shoulder . 
But a few paces distant , he slackened in his walk and fumbled in his vest pocket with his fingers . 
Then he came back to Mrs. Hooven and put a quarter into her hand . 
Mrs. Hooven stared at the coin stupefied . 
He thought , then , that she was begging . 
It had come to that she , independent all her life , whose husband had held five hundred acres of wheat land , had been taken for a beggar . 
A flush of shame shot to her face . 
She was about to throw the money after its giver . 
But at the moment , Hilda again exclaimed Mammy , I'm hungry . 
With a movement of infinite lassitude and resigned acceptance of the situation , Mrs. Hooven put the coin in her pocket . 
She had no right to be proud any longer . 
That evening , she and her child had supper at a cheap restaurant in a poor quarter of the town , and passed the night on the benches of a little uptown park . 
Drunken men snored and sprawled near at hand . 
Towards morning , a loafer , reeking of alcohol , sat down beside her , and indulged in an incoherent soliloquy , punctuated with oaths and obscenities . 
It was not till far along towards daylight that she fell asleep . 
She awoke to find it broad day . 
Her mother's limbs were stiff and lame with cold and damp her head throbbed . 
A policeman came into view . 
She woke Hilda , and carrying her in her arms , took herself away . 
Mammy , began Hilda as soon as she was well awake Mammy , I'm hungry . 
Sure , sure , soon now , leedle tochter . 
She herself was hungry , but she had but little thought of that . 
How was Hilda to be fed ? She remembered her experience of the previous day , when the young man with the hose had given her money . 
SHE beg ! SHE hold out the hand to strangers ! Mammy , I'm hungry . 
There was no other way . 
It must come to that in the end . 
Why temporise , why put off the inevitable ? She sought out a frequented street where men and women were on their way to work . 
Every one must be looking at her . 
Her shame was no doubt the object of an hundred eyes . 
Mammy , I'm hungry , protested Hilda again . 
She made up her mind . 
Then , having settled upon a phrase , she approached a whiskered gentleman with a large stomach , walking briskly in the direction of the town . 
Say , den , blease hellup a boor womun . 
Perhaps he doand hear me , she murmured . 
Two well dressed women advanced , chattering gayly . 
Say , say , den , blease hellup a boor womun . 
One of the women paused , murmuring to her companion , and from her purse extracted a yellow ticket which she gave to Mrs. Hooven with voluble explanations . 
But Mrs. Hooven was confused , she did not understand . 
What could the ticket mean ? The women went on their way . 
The next person to whom she applied was a young girl of about eighteen , very prettily dressed . 
Say , say , den , blease hellup a boor womun . 
In evident embarrassment , the young girl paused and searched in her little pocketbook . 
I think I have I think I have just ten cents here somewhere , she murmured again and again . 
In the end , she found a dime , and dropped it into Mrs. Hooven's palm . 
The first step once taken , the others became easy . 
All day long , Mrs. Hooven and Hilda followed the streets , begging , begging . 
Here it was a nickel , there a dime , here a nickel again . 
Tuesday night found the pair once more shelterless . 
Once more , Mrs. Hooven and her baby passed the night on the park benches . 
But early on Wednesday morning , Mrs. Hooven found herself assailed by sharp pains and cramps in her stomach . 
As the day went on , the pain and the weakness increased . 
When she tried to walk , she found she could do so only with the greatest difficulty . 
To beg , she must walk . 
Dragging herself forward a half block at a time , she regained the street once more . 
She succeeded in begging a couple of nickels , bought a bag of apples from a vender , and , returning to the park , sank exhausted upon a bench . 
Here she remained all day until evening , Hilda alternately whimpering for her bread and milk , or playing languidly in the gravel walk at her feet . 
In the evening , she started out again . 
This time , it was bitter hard . 
Nobody seemed inclined to give . 
Twice she was moved on by policemen . 
Two hours' begging elicited but a single dime . 
In her weakened condition , begging became hourly more difficult , and such little money as was given her , she resolutely spent on Hilda's bread and milk in the morning and evening . 
By Friday afternoon , she was very weak , indeed . 
Vases of elegant forms , made of shimmering glass , bowed and courtesied toward her . 
Glass bulbs took graceful and varying shapes before her vision , now rounding into globes , now evolving into hour glasses , now twisting into pretzel shaped convolutions . 
Mammy , I'm hungry , insisted Hilda , passing her hands over her face . 
Mrs. Hooven started and woke . 
Already the street lamps were being lit . 
Gome , den , leedle girl , she said , rising and taking Hilda's hand . 
She had had no success there of late . 
She would try some other quarter of the town . 
After a weary walk , she came out upon Van Ness Avenue , near its junction with Market Street . 
Say , say , den , blease hellup a boor womun . 
Mammy , mammy , I'm hungry . 
It was Friday night , between seven and eight . 
The great deserted avenue was already dark . 
A sea fog was scudding overhead , and by degrees descending lower . 
Presley entered the dining room of the Gerard mansion with little Miss Gerard on his arm . 
Besides these , there were one or two other couples , whose names Presley did not remember . 
The dining room was superb in its appointments . 
The painting represented the personages in the Romaunt de la Rose , and was conceived in an atmosphere of the most delicate , most ephemeral allegory . 
Otherwise , the room was simple . 
Against the side of the wall unoccupied by the picture stood a sideboard of gigantic size , that once had adorned the banquet hall of an Italian palace of the late Renaissance . 
It was black with age , and against its sombre surfaces glittered an array of heavy silver dishes and heavier cut glass bowls and goblets . 
This is from your own vineyard , is it not ? asked Julian Lambert . 
I think I recognise the bouquet . 
He strove to maintain an attitude of fin gourmet , unable to refrain from comment upon the courses as they succeeded one another . 
Little Honora Gerard turned to Presley You know , she explained , Papa has his own vineyards in southern France . 
He is so particular about his wines turns up his nose at California wines . 
And I am to go there next summer . 
Ferrieres is the name of the place where our vineyards are , the dearest village ! She was a beautiful little girl of a dainty porcelain type , her colouring low in tone . 
She wore no jewels , but her little , undeveloped neck and shoulders , of an exquisite immaturity , rose from the tulle bodice of her first decollete gown . 
Yes , she continued I'm to go to Europe for the first time . 
Won't it be gay ? And I am to have my own bonne , and Mamma and I are to travel so many places , Baden , Homburg , Spa , the Tyrol . 
Won't it be gay ? Presley assented in meaningless words . 
It was Wealth , in all its outward and visible forms , the signs of an opulence so great that it need never be husbanded . 
It was the home of a railway Magnate , a Railroad King . 
For this , then , the farmers paid . 
It was for this that S. Behrman turned the screw , tightened the vise . 
It was for this that Dyke had been driven to outlawry and a jail . 
It was for this that Lyman Derrick had been bought , the Governor ruined and broken , Annixter shot down , Hooven killed . 
The wine , so Mrs. Gerard caused it to be understood , was Xeres , of the vintage . 
Mrs. Hooven crossed the avenue . 
Without knowing it , she had come to a part of the city that experienced beggars shunned . 
Block after block of residences stretched away on either hand , lighted , full of people . 
But the sidewalks were deserted . 
I'm tired , carry me . 
Using all her strength , Mrs. Hooven picked her up and moved on aimlessly . 
Then again that terrible cry , the cry of the hungry child appealing to the helpless mother Mammy , I'm hungry . 
Ach , Gott , leedle girl , exclaimed Mrs. Hooven , holding her close to her shoulder , the tears starting from her eyes . 
Doand , doand , doand . 
I cen't vind any subber . 
We got noddings to eat , noddings , noddings . 
When do we have those bread'n milk again , Mammy ? To morrow soon py and py , Hilda . 
I doand know what pecome oaf us now , what pecome oaf my leedle babby . 
She went on , holding Hilda against her shoulder with one arm as best she might , one hand steadying herself against the fence railings along the sidewalk . 
At last , a solitary pedestrian came into view , a young man in a top hat and overcoat , walking rapidly . 
Mrs. Hooven held out a quivering hand as he passed her . 
Say , say , den , Meest'r , blease hellup a boor womun . 
The fish course was grenadins of bass and small salmon , the latter stuffed , and cooked in white wine and mushroom liquor . 
I have read your poem , of course , Mr. Presley , observed Mrs. Gerard . 
'The Toilers , I mean . 
What a sermon you read us , you dreadful young man . 
I felt that I ought at once to 'sell all that I have and give to the poor . 
Positively , it did stir me up . 
You may congratulate yourself upon making at least one convert . 
Just because of that poem Mrs. Cedarquist and I have started a movement to send a whole shipload of wheat to the starving people in India . 
Now , you horrid reactionnaire , are you satisfied ? I am very glad , murmured Presley . 
But I am afraid , observed Mrs. Cedarquist , that we may be too late . 
They are dying so fast , those poor people . 
By the time our ship reaches India the famine may be all over . 
One need never be afraid of being 'too late' in the matter of helping the destitute , answered Presley . 
Unfortunately , they are always a fixed quantity . 
'The poor ye have always with you . 
How very clever that is , said Mrs. Gerard . 
Mrs. Cedarquist tapped the table with her fan in mild applause . 
Brilliant , brilliant , she murmured , epigrammatical . 
Mrs. Hooven went on , stumbling from street to street , holding Hilda to her breast . 
On she went , peering into dark corners , into the areaways , anywhere , everywhere , watching the silent prowling of cats , the intent rovings of stray dogs . 
But she was growing weaker the pains and cramps in her stomach returned . 
Hilda's weight bore her to the pavement . 
More than once a great giddiness , a certain wheeling faintness all but overcame her . 
Hilda , however , was asleep . 
The terror of a collapse upon those cold pavements glistening with fog damp roused her she must make an effort to get through the night . 
She rallied all her strength , and pausing a moment to shift the weight of her baby to the other arm , once more set off through the night . 
A little while later she found on the edge of the sidewalk the peeling of a banana . 
It had been trodden upon and it was muddy , but joyfully she caught it up . 
Hilda , she cried , wake oop , leedle girl . 
See , loog den , dere's somedings to eat . 
Look den , hey ? Dat's goot , ain't it ? Zum bunaner . 
But it could not be eaten . 
Decayed , dirty , all but rotting , the stomach turned from the refuse , nauseated . 
No , no , cried Hilda , that's not good . 
Oh , Mammy , please gif me those bread'n milk . 
By now the guests of Mrs. Gerard had come to the entrees Londonderry pheasants , escallops of duck , and rissolettes a la pompadour . 
The wine was Chateau Latour . 
All around the table conversations were going forward gayly . 
The good wines had broken up the slight restraint of the early part of the evening and a spirit of good humour and good fellowship prevailed . 
Young Lambert and Mr. Gerard were deep in reminiscences of certain mutual duck shooting expeditions . 
Mrs. Gerard and Mrs. Cedarquist discussed a novel a strange mingling of psychology , degeneracy , and analysis of erotic conditions which had just been translated from the Italian . 
Stephen Lambert and Beatrice disputed over the merits of a Scotch collie just given to the young lady . 
The scene was gay , the electric bulbs sparkled , the wine flashing back the light . 
The entire table was a vague glow of white napery , delicate china , and glass as brilliant as crystal . 
But Presley could find no enjoyment in the occasion . 
He saw them fall , one by one , Harran , Annixter , Osterman , Broderson , Hooven . 
The clink of the wine glasses was drowned in the explosion of revolvers . 
Because Magnus had been beggared , Gerard had become Railroad King because the farmers of the valley were poor , these men were rich . 
The fancy grew big in his mind , distorted , caricatured , terrible . 
Because the farmers had been killed at the irrigation ditch , these others , Gerard and his family , fed full . 
They fattened on the blood of the People , on the blood of the men who had been killed at the ditch . 
It was a half ludicrous , half horrible dog eat dog , an unspeakable cannibalism . 
Harran , Annixter , and Hooven were being devoured there under his eyes . 
His head swam with the horror of it , the terror of it . 
Yes , the People WOULD turn some day , and turning , rend those who now preyed upon them . 
At ten o'clock Mrs. Hooven fell . 
Luckily she was leading Hilda by the hand at the time and the little girl was not hurt . 
In vain had Mrs. Hooven , hour after hour , walked the streets . 
After a while she no longer made any attempt to beg nobody was stirring , nor did she even try to hunt for food with the stray dogs and cats . 
The ground was unfenced and rose above her to form the cap of the hill , all overgrown with bushes and a few stunted live oaks . 
It was in trying to cross this piece of ground that she fell . 
She got upon her feet again . 
Ach , Mammy , did you hurt yourself ? asked Hilda . 
No , no , dere aindt no braid end miluk , leedle tochter . 
Hilda once more began to sob . 
Ach , Mammy , please , PLEASE , I want it . 
The jangled nerves snapped at last under the tension , and Mrs. Hooven , suddenly shaking Hilda roughly , cried out Stop , stop . 
Doand say ut egen , you . 
My Gott , you kill me yet . 
But quick upon this came the reaction . 
The mother caught her little girl to her , sinking down upon her knees , putting her arms around her , holding her close . 
No , no , gry all so mudge es you want . 
Say dot you are hongry . 
Say ut egen , say ut all de dime , ofer end ofer egen . 
Say ut , poor , starfing , leedle babby . 
Oh , mein poor , leedle tochter . 
My Gott , oh , I go crazy bretty soon , I guess . 
I cen't ged you noddings to eat , noddings , noddings . 
Hilda , we gowun to die togedder . 
Put der arms roundt me , soh , tighd , leedle babby . 
We gowun to die , we gowun to vind Popper . 
We aindt gowun to be hongry eny more . 
Vair we go now ? demanded Hilda . 
We stop heir , leedle while , end rest . 
Underneath a large bush that afforded a little shelter from the wind , Mrs. Hooven lay down , taking Hilda in her arms and wrapping her shawl about her . 
The infinite , vast night expanded gigantic all around them . 
At this elevation they were far above the city . 
Close overhead whirled the chariots of the fog , galloping landward , smothering lights , blurring outlines . 
Soon all sight of the town was shut out even the solitary house on the hilltop vanished . 
Hilda's fingers touched a leaf from the bush and instinctively closed upon it and carried it to her mouth . 
Mammy , she said , I'm eating those leaf . 
Is those good ? Her mother did not reply . 
You going to sleep , Mammy ? inquired Hilda , touching her face . 
Mrs. Hooven roused herself a little . 
Hey ? Vat you say ? Asleep ? Yais , I guess I wass asleep . 
Her voice trailed unintelligibly to silence again . 
She was not , however , asleep . 
A grateful numbness had begun to creep over her , a pleasing semi insensibility . 
She no longer felt the pain and cramps of her stomach , even the hunger was ceasing to bite . 
These stuffed artichokes are delicious , Mrs. Gerard , murmured young Lambert , wiping his lips with a corner of his napkin . 
Pardon me for mentioning it , but your dinner must be my excuse . 
And this asparagus since Mr. Lambert has set the bad example , observed Mrs. Cedarquist , so delicate , such an exquisite flavour . 
How do you manage ? We get all our asparagus from the southern part of the State , from one particular ranch , explained Mrs. Gerard . 
We order it by wire and get it only twenty hours after cutting . 
My husband sees to it that it is put on a special train . 
It stops at this ranch just to take on our asparagus . 
Extravagant , isn't it , but I simply cannot eat asparagus that has been cut more than a day . 
Nor I , exclaimed Julian Lambert , who posed as an epicure . 
I can tell to an hour just how long asparagus has been picked . 
Fancy eating ordinary market asparagus , said Mrs. Gerard , that has been fingered by Heaven knows how many hands . 
Mammy , mammy , wake up , cried Hilda , trying to push open Mrs. Hooven's eyelids , at last closed . 
You're just trying to frighten me . 
Feebly Hilda shook her by the shoulder . 
At last Mrs. Hooven's lips stirred . 
Putting her head down , Hilda distinguished the whispered words I'm sick . 
The dessert was a wonderful preparation of alternate layers of biscuit glaces , ice cream , and candied chestnuts . 
Delicious , is it not ? observed Julian Lambert , partly to himself , partly to Miss Cedarquist . 
This Moscovite fouette upon my word , I have never tasted its equal . 
And you should know , shouldn't you ? returned the young lady . 
Mammy , mammy , wake up , cried Hilda . 
Repeatedly she shook her repeatedly she tried to raise the inert eyelids with the point of her finger . 
But her mother no longer stirred . 
Hilda drew close to her mother , kissing her face , twining her arms around her neck . 
For a long time , she lay that way , alternately sobbing and sleeping . 
Then , after a long time , there was a stir . 
She woke from a doze to find a police officer and two or three other men bending over her . 
Some one carried a lantern . 
Terrified , smitten dumb , she was unable to answer the questions put to her . 
Then a woman , evidently a mistress of the house on the top of the hill , arrived and took Hilda in her arms and cried over her . 
I'll take the little girl , she said to the police officer . 
But the mother , can you save her ? Is she too far gone ? I've sent for a doctor , replied the other . 
Just before the ladies left the table , young Lambert raised his glass of Madeira . 
Turning towards the wife of the Railroad King , he said My best compliments for a delightful dinner . 
The doctor who had been bending over Mrs. Hooven , rose . 
It's no use , he said she has been dead some time exhaustion from starvation . 
However , he saw nothing . 
The stubble extended onward apparently to the very margin of the world . 
At length , S. Behrman halted his buggy and brought out his field glasses from beneath the seat . 
He stood up in his place and , adjusting the lenses , swept the prospect to the south and west . 
Wonder , he muttered , if they're working on Four this morning ? At length , he murmured an Ah of satisfaction . 
Far to the south into the white sheen of sky , immediately over the horizon , he made out a faint smudge the harvester beyond doubt . 
Thither S. Behrman turned his horse's head . 
It was all of an hour's drive over the uneven ground and through the crackling stubble , but at length he reached the harvester . 
He found , however , that it had been halted . 
What's the matter , Billy ? demanded S. Behrman reining up . 
The grain is heavy in here . 
We thought we'd better increase the speed of the cup carrier , and pulled up to put in a smaller sprocket . 
S. Behrman nodded to say that was all right , and added a question . 
How is she going ? Anywheres from twenty five to thirty sacks to the acre right along here nothing the matter with THAT I guess . 
Nothing in the world , Bill . 
One of the sack sewers interposed For the last half hour we've been throwing off three bags to the minute . 
That's good , that's good . 
It was more than good it was bonanza , and all that division of the great ranch was thick with just such wonderful wheat . 
Never had Los Muertos been more generous , never a season more successful . 
S. Behrman drew a long breath of satisfaction . 
The sprocket adjusted , the engineer called up the gang and the men took their places . 
The fireman stoked vigorously , the two sack sewers resumed their posts on the sacking platform , putting on the goggles that kept the chaff from their eyes . 
The separator man and header man gripped their levers . 
The harvester , shooting a column of thick smoke straight upward , vibrating to the top of the stack , hissed , clanked , and lurched forward . 
It was that and no less . 
S. Behrman , very much amused , changed places with one of the sack sewers , allowing him to hold his horse while he mounted the sacking platform and took his place . 
The trepidation and jostling of the machine shook him till his teeth chattered in his head . 
The pour from the chute of the cleaner had for S. Behrman an immense satisfaction . 
Without an instant's pause , a thick rivulet of wheat rolled and dashed tumultuous into the sack . 
S. Behrman , hypnotised , sat watching that river of grain . 
Its volume was the index of failure or success , of riches or poverty . 
And at this point , the labour of the rancher ended . 
Here , at the lip of the chute , he parted company with his grain , and from here the wheat streamed forth to feed the world . 
The yawning mouths of the sacks might well stand for the unnumbered mouths of the People , all agape for food and here , into these sacks , at first so lean . 
Half an hour later , the harvester stopped again . 
The men on the sacking platform had used up all the sacks . 
But S. Behrman's foreman , a new man on Los Muertos , put in an appearance with the report that the wagon bringing a fresh supply was approaching . 
How is the grain elevator at Port Costa getting on , sir ? Finished , replied S. Behrman . 
The P. and S. W. made S. Behrman a special rate . 
By the way , said S. Behrman to his superintendent , we're in luck . 
Fallon's buyer was in Bonneville yesterday . 
He's buying for Fallon and for Holt , too . 
I happened to run into him , and I've sold a ship load . 
A ship load ! Of Los Muertos wheat . 
He's acting for some Indian Famine Relief Committee lot of women people up in the city and wanted a whole cargo . 
I made a deal with him . 
There's about fifty thousand tons of disengaged shipping in San Francisco Bay right now , and ships are fighting for charters . 
I wired McKissick and got a long distance telephone from him this morning . 
He got me a barque , the 'Swanhilda . 
She'll dock day after to morrow , and begin loading . 
Derrick will be out by then . 
You see this deal is peculiar . 
I'm not selling to any middle man not to Fallon's buyer . 
He only put me on to the thing . 
I'm acting direct with these women people , and I've got to have some hand in shipping this stuff myself . 
But I made my selling figure cover the price of a charter . 
It's a queer , mixed up deal , and I don't fancy it much , but there's boodle in it . 
I'll go to Port Costa myself . 
He had not gone far , however , before he became aware of a familiar figure on horse back , jogging slowly along ahead of him . 
He recognised Presley he shook the reins over his horse's back and very soon ranging up by the side of the young man passed the time of day with him . 
Well , what brings you down here again , Mr. Presley ? he observed . 
I thought we had seen the last of you . 
I came down to say good bye to my friends , answered Presley shortly . 
Going away ? Yes to India . 
Well , upon my word . 
For your health , hey ? Yes . 
You LOOK knocked up , asserted the other . 
By the way , he added , I suppose you've heard the news ? Presley shrank a little . 
Of late the reports of disasters had followed so swiftly upon one another that he had begun to tremble and to quail at every unexpected bit of information . 
What news do you mean ? he asked . 
The judge sentenced him for life . 
Jailed for life ! No outlook . 
No hope for the future . 
Day after day , year after year , to tread the rounds of the same gloomy monotony . 
To this , Dyke had been brought , Dyke , than whom no man had been more honest , more courageous , more jovial . 
This was the end of him , a prison this was his final estate , a criminal . 
Presley found an excuse for riding on , leaving S. Behrman behind him . 
He did not stop at Caraher's saloon , for the heat of his rage had long since begun to cool , and dispassionately , he saw things in their true light . 
For all the tragedy of his wife's death , Caraher was none the less an evil influence among the ranchers , an influence that worked only to the inciting of crime . 
At last , Presley arrived at the ranch house of Los Muertos . 
The place was silent the grass on the lawn was half dead and over a foot high the beginnings of weeds showed here and there in the driveway . 
He tied his horse to a ring in the trunk of one of the larger eucalyptus trees and entered the house . 
Mrs. Derrick met him in the dining room . 
The old look of uneasiness , almost of terror , had gone from her wide open brown eyes . 
There was in them instead , the expression of one to whom a contingency , long dreaded , has arrived and passed . 
The stolidity of a settled grief , of an irreparable calamity , of a despair from which there was no escape was in her look , her manner , her voice . 
She was listless , apathetic , calm with the calmness of a woman who knows she can suffer no further . 
We are going away , she told Presley , as the two sat down at opposite ends of the dining table . 
Just Magnus and myself all there is left of us . 
There is very little money left Magnus can hardly take care of himself , to say nothing of me . 
I must look after him now . 
We are going to Marysville . 
Why there ? You see , she explained , it happens that my old place is vacant in the Seminary there . 
I am going back to teach literature . 
It is beginning all over again , isn't it ? Only there is nothing to look forward to now . 
Magnus is an old man already , and I must take care of him . 
He will go with you , then , Presley said , that will be some comfort to you at least . 
I don't know , she said slowly , you have not seen Magnus lately . 
Is he how do you mean ? Isn't he any better ? Would you like to see him ? He is in the office . 
You can go right in . 
He hesitated a moment , then Mrs. Annixter , he asked , Hilma is she still with you ? I should like to see her before I go . 
Go in and see Magnus , said Mrs. Derrick . 
I will tell her you are here . 
Presley stepped across the stone paved hallway with the glass roof , and after knocking three times at the office door pushed it open and entered . 
Magnus sat in the chair before the desk and did not look up as Presley entered . 
He had the appearance of a man nearer eighty than sixty . 
All the old time erectness was broken and bent . 
It was as though the muscles that once had held the back rigid , the chin high , had softened and stretched . 
The hawk like nose seemed hooked to meet the chin the lips were slack , the mouth half opened . 
Without a moment's cessation , these hands of the Governor's came and went among the papers , deft , nimble , dexterous . 
He spoke no word , he sat absolutely still , even his eyes did not move , only his hands , swift , nervous , agitated , seemed alive . 
Why , how are you , Governor ? said Presley , coming forward . 
Magnus turned slowly about and looked at him and at the hand in which he shook his own . 
Ah , he said at length , Presley . 
Then his glance fell , and he looked aimlessly about upon the floor . 
I've come to say good bye , Governor , continued Presley , I'm going away . 
yes , why it's Presley . 
I've come to say good bye . 
Good bye ? Magnus bent his brows , what are you saying good bye for ? I'm going away , sir . 
The Governor did not answer . 
Staring at the ledge of the desk , he seemed lost in thought . 
There was a long silence . 
Then , at length , Presley said How are you getting on , Governor ? Magnus looked up slowly . 
Why it's Presley , he said . 
How do you do , Presley . 
Are you getting on all right , sir ? Yes , said Magnus after a while , yes , all right . 
I've come to say good bye . 
No He interrupted himself with a deprecatory smile , YOU said THAT , didn't you ? Well , you are going away , too , your wife tells me . 
Yes , I'm going away . 
he hesitated a long time , groping for the right word , I can't stay on on what's the name of this place ? Los Muertos , put in Presley . 
Yes , it is , too , that's right , Los Muertos . 
I don't know where my memory has gone to of late . 
Well , I hope you will be better soon , Governor . 
S. Behrman saluted both men affably and sat down near the desk , drawing the links of his heavy watch chain through his fat fingers . 
There wasn't anybody outside when I knocked , but I heard your voice in here , Governor , so I came right in . 
I wanted to ask you , Governor , if my carpenters can begin work in here day after to morrow . 
I want to take down that partition there , and throw this room and the next into one . 
I guess that will be O. K. , won't it ? You'll be out of here by then , won't you ? There was no vagueness about Magnus's speech or manner now . 
There was that same alertness in his demeanour that one sees in a tamed lion in the presence of its trainer . 
Yes , yes , he said quickly , you can send your men here . 
I will be gone by to morrow . 
I don't want to seem to hurry you , Governor . 
No , you will not hurry me . 
I am ready to go now . 
Anything I can do for you , Governor ? Nothing . 
Yes , there is , Governor , insisted S. Behrman . 
I think now that all is over we ought to be good friends . 
I think I can do something for you . 
We still want an assistant in the local freight manager's office . 
Now , what do you say to having a try at it ? There's a salary of fifty a month goes with it . 
Will you try the place ? You you INSIST ? inquired the Governor . 
Oh , I'm not insisting on anything , cried S. Behrman . 
I'm offering you a place , that's all . 
Will you take it ? Yes , yes , I'll take it . 
You'll come over to our side ? Yes , I'll come over . 
You'll have to turn 'railroad , understand ? I'll turn railroad . 
Guess there may be times when you'll have to take orders from me . 
I'll take orders from you . 
You'll have to be loyal to railroad , you know . 
I'll be loyal to the railroad . 
You would like the place then ? Yes . 
S. Behrman turned from Magnus , who at once resumed his seat and began again to sort his papers . 
Well , Presley , said the railroad agent I guess I won't see you again . 
I hope not , answered the other . 
Tut , tut , Presley , you know you can't make me angry . 
He put on his hat of varnished straw and wiped his fat forehead with his handkerchief . 
Presley looked at the man a moment before replying . 
But a few weeks ago he could not thus have faced the great enemy of the farmers without a gust of blind rage blowing tempestuous through all his bones . 
Now , however , he found to his surprise that his fury had lapsed to a profound contempt , in which there was bitterness , but no truculence . 
He was tired , tired to death of the whole business . 
Yes , he answered deliberately , I am going away . 
You have ruined this place for me . 
I couldn't live here where I should have to see you , or the results of what you have done , whenever I stirred out of doors . 
Nonsense , Presley , answered the other , refusing to become angry . 
That's foolishness , that kind of talk though , of course , I understand how you feel . 
I guess it was you , wasn't it , who threw that bomb into my house ? It was . 
Well , that don't show any common sense , Presley , returned S. Behrman with perfect aplomb . 
What could you have gained by killing me ? Not so much probably as you have gained by killing Harran and Annixter . 
But that's all passed now . 
The strangeness of this talk , the oddity of the situation burst upon him and he laughed aloud . 
Just what are we going to do with you ? Best give it up , Pres , my boy , returned the other . 
I guess there ain't anything can touch me . 
Well , Magnus , he said , turning once more to the Governor . 
Well , I'll think over what you say , and let you know if I can get the place for you in a day or two . 
You see , he added , you're getting pretty old , Magnus Derrick . 
Presley flung himself from the room , unable any longer to witness the depths into which Magnus had fallen . 
What other scenes of degradation were enacted in that room , how much further S. Behrman carried the humiliation , he did not know . 
He suddenly felt that the air of the office was choking him . 
He hurried up to what once had been his own room . 
The servants came and went with armfuls of books , ornaments , articles of clothing . 
He descended to the lower floor and entered the dining room . 
But as he stood considering these things a door to his right opened and Hilma entered the room . 
Presley came forward , holding out his hand , all unable to believe his eyes . 
It was a woman , grave , dignified , composed , who advanced to meet him . 
Hilma was dressed in black , the cut and fashion of the gown severe , almost monastic . 
All the little feminine and contradictory daintinesses were nowhere to be seen . 
Her statuesque calm evenness of contour yet remained , but it was the calmness of great sorrow , of infinite resignation . 
Beautiful she still remained , but she was older . 
The seriousness of one who has gained the knowledge of the world knowledge of its evil seemed to envelope her . 
The calm gravity of a great suffering past , but not forgotten , sat upon her . 
Not yet twenty one , she exhibited the demeanour of a woman of forty . 
The one time amplitude of her figure , the fulness of hip and shoulder , the great deep swell from waist to throat were gone . 
She had grown thinner and , in consequence , seemed unusually , almost unnaturally tall . 
Her neck was slender , the outline of her full lips and round chin was a little sharp her arms , those wonderful , beautiful arms of hers , were a little shrunken . 
When she spoke , it was with the old time velvety huskiness of voice that Annixter had learned to love so well . 
Oh , it is you , she said , giving him her hand . 
You were good to want to see me before you left . 
I hear that you are going away . 
She sat down upon the sofa . 
Yes , Presley answered , drawing a chair near to her , yes , I felt I could not stay down here any longer . 
I am going to take a long ocean voyage . 
My ship sails in a few days . 
But you , Mrs. Annixter , what are you going to do ? Is there any way I can serve you ? No , she answered , nothing . 
We are living here now . 
You are well ? She made a little helpless gesture with both her hands , smiling very sadly . 
As you see , she answered . 
As he talked , Presley was looking at her intently . 
She conveyed something of the impression of a queen in exile . 
But she had lost none of her womanliness rather , the contrary . 
Adversity had softened her , as well as deepened her . 
Presley saw that very clearly . 
What if things had been different ? Thus , as he conversed with her , Presley found himself wondering . 
Her sweetness , her beautiful gentleness , and tenderness were almost like palpable presences . 
It was almost as if a caress had been laid softly upon his cheek , as if a gentle hand closed upon his . 
Here , he knew , was sympathy here , he knew , was an infinite capacity for love . 
Then suddenly all the tired heart of him went out towards her . 
For an instant he told himself that the suddenness of this new emotion must be evidence of its insincerity . 
He was perfectly well aware that his impulses were abrupt and of short duration . 
But he knew that this was not sudden . 
The sight of her to day , more beautiful than ever , quiet , strong , reserved , had only brought matters to a culmination . 
He was my whole world , literally and truly . 
Nothing seemed to count before I knew him , and nothing can count for me now , after I have lost him . 
You think now , he answered , that in being happy again you would be disloyal to him . 
But you will find after a while years from now that it need not be so . 
The part of you that belonged to your husband can always keep him sacred , that part of you belongs to him and he to it . 
But you are young you have all your life to live yet . 
Your sorrow need not be a burden to you . 
If you consider it as you should as you WILL some day , believe me it will only be a great help to you . 
It will make you more noble , a truer woman , more generous . 
I think I see , she answered , and I never thought about it in that light before . 
I want to help you , he answered , as you have helped me . 
I want to be your friend , and above all things I do not want to see your life wasted . 
I am going away and it is quite possible I shall never see you again , but you will always be a help to me . 
I do not understand , she answered , but I know you mean to be very , very kind to me . 
Yes , I hope when you come back if you ever do you will still be that . 
I do not know why you should want to be so kind , unless yes , of course you were my husband's dearest friend . 
They talked a little longer , and at length Presley rose . 
I cannot bring myself to see Mrs. Derrick again , he said . 
It would only serve to make her very unhappy . 
Will you explain that to her ? I think she will understand . 
There seemed to be nothing more for either of them to say . 
Presley held out his hand . 
Good bye , she said , as she gave him hers . 
He carried it to his lips . 
Good bye , he answered . 
Good bye and may God bless you . 
He turned away abruptly and left the room . 
He had forgotten that since the affair at the ditch , Los Muertos had been a home to the engineer's mother and daughter . 
I have a sister there who will look after the little tad . 
But you , how about yourself , Mrs. Dyke ? She answered him in a quiet voice , monotonous , expressionless I am going to die very soon , Mr. Presley . 
There is no reason why I should live any longer . 
My son is in prison for life , everything is over for me , and I am tired , worn out . 
You mustn't talk like that , Mrs. Dyke , protested Presley , nonsense you will live long enough to see the little tad married . 
He tried to be cheerful . 
But he knew his words lacked the ring of conviction . 
Death already overshadowed the face of the engineer's mother . 
Hilda Hooven and Sidney Dyke , what was to be their histories ? the one , sister of an outcast the other , daughter of a convict . 
Good bye , he said , holding out his hand . 
Presley came out upon the County Road . 
At a little distance to his left he could see the group of buildings where once Broderson had lived . 
These were being remodelled , at length , to suit the larger demands of the New Agriculture . 
A strange man came out by the road gate no doubt , the new proprietor . 
Presley turned away , hurrying northwards along the County Road by the mammoth watering tank and the long wind break of poplars . 
He came to Caraher's place . 
There was no change here . 
The saloon had weathered the storm , indispensable to the new as well as to the old regime . 
The same dusty buggies and buckboards were tied under the shed , and as Presley hurried by he could distinguish Caraher's voice , loud as ever , still proclaiming his creed of annihilation . 
He had no associations with the town . 
A vast stillness , profound , unbroken , brooded low over all the place . 
The rusted wind mill on the skeleton like tower of the artesian well was motionless the great barn empty the windows of the ranch house , cook house , and dairy boarded up . 
Nailed upon a tree near the broken gateway was a board , white painted , with stencilled letters , bearing the inscription Warning . 
ALL PERSONS FOUND TRESPASSING ON THESE PREMISES WILL BE PROSECUTED TO THE FULLEST EXTENT OF THE LAW . 
By order P. and S. W. R. R. As he had planned , Presley reached the hills by the head waters of Broderson's Creek late in the afternoon . 
Toilfully he climbed them , reached the highest crest , and turning about , looked long and for the last time at all the reach of the valley unrolled beneath him . 
The land of the ranches opened out forever and forever under the stimulus of that measureless range of vision . 
The whole gigantic sweep of the San Joaquin expanded Titanic before the eye of the mind , flagellated with heat , quivering and shimmering under the sun's red eye . 
And as Presley looked there came to him strong and true the sense and the significance of all the enigma of growth . 
He seemed for one instant to touch the explanation of existence . 
Men were nothings , mere animalculae , mere ephemerides that fluttered and fell and were forgotten between dawn and dusk . 
Vanamee had said there was no death . 
But for one second Presley could go one step further . 
The man was hardly more than a dot , but there was something unmistakably familiar in his gait and besides this , Presley could fancy that he was hatless . 
He touched his pony with his spur . 
Instantly Presley was aware of an immense change . 
They talked together till nearly sundown , but to Presley's questions as to the reasons for Vanamee's happiness , the other would say nothing . 
Once only he allowed himself to touch upon the subject . 
Death and grief are little things , he said . 
Life must be before death , and joy before grief . 
Else there are no such things as death or grief . 
Death is only the absence of life , just as night is only the absence of day , and if this is so , there is no such thing as death . 
There is only life , and the suppression of life , that we , foolishly , say is death . 
'Suppression , I say , not extinction . 
I do not say that life returns . 
For certain seasons , it is hidden in the dark , but is that death , extinction , annihilation ? I take it , thank God , that it is not . 
Death is only real for all the detritus of the world , for all the sorrow , for all the injustice , for all the grief . 
You are all broken , all cast down by what you have seen in this valley , this hopeless struggle , this apparently hopeless despair . 
Well , the end is not yet . 
There was a long pause . 
Presley , his mind full of new thoughts , held his peace , and Vanamee added at length I believed Angele dead . 
I wept over her grave mourned for her as dead in corruption . 
She has come back to me , more beautiful than ever . 
Do not ask me any further . 
To put this story , this idyl , into words , would , for me , be a profanation . 
Angele has returned to me , and I am happy . 
The friends clasped each other's hands . 
Never judge of the whole round of life by the mere segment you can see . 
The whole is , in the end , perfect . 
Abruptly he took himself away . 
Presley , alone , thoughtful , his hands clasped behind him , passed on through the ranches here teeming with ripened wheat his face set from them forever . 
Thus he spent the night . 
At length , the day broke , resplendent , cloudless . 
At the moment , Vanamee stood breast deep in the wheat in a solitary corner of the Quien Sabe rancho . 
He turned eastward , facing the celestial glory of the day and sent his voiceless call far from him across the golden grain out towards the little valley of flowers . 
It advanced to meet him . 
The flowers of the Seed ranch were gone , dried and parched by the summer's sun , shedding their seed by handfuls to be sown again and blossom yet another time . 
The Seed ranch was no longer royal with colour . 
Under the blinding light of the day it stretched to its hillsides , bare , brown , unlovely . 
The romance of the place had vanished , but with it had vanished the Vision . 
It was no longer a figment of his imagination , a creature of dreams that advanced to meet Vanamee . 
It was Reality it was Angele in the flesh , vital , sane , material , who at last issued forth from the entrance of the little valley . 
Romance had vanished , but better than romance was here . 
Not a manifestation , not a dream , but her very self . 
The night was gone , but the sun had risen the flowers had disappeared , but strong , vigorous , noble , the wheat had come . 
In the wheat he waited for her . 
No fanciful wreath of tube roses was about her head now , no strange garment of red and gold enveloped her now . 
It was no longer an ephemeral illusion of the night , evanescent , mystic , but a simple country girl coming to meet her lover . 
The vision of the night had been beautiful , but what was it compared to this ? Reality was better than Romance . 
The simple honesty of a loving , trusting heart was better than a legend of flowers , an hallucination of the moonlight . 
But now she was no longer asleep . 
The wonderful eyes , violet blue , heavy lidded , with their perplexing , oriental slant towards the temples , were wide open and fixed upon his . 
The moonlight , the flowers , and the dream were all vanished away . 
Angele was realised in the Wheat . 
She stood forth in the sunlight , a fact , and no longer a fancy . 
He ran forward to meet her and she held out her arms to him . 
He caught her to him , and she , turning her face to his , kissed him on the mouth . 
I love you , I love you , she murmured . 
Upon descending from his train at Port Costa , S. Behrman asked to be directed at once to where the bark Swanhilda was taking on grain . 
Though he had bought and greatly enlarged his new elevator at this port , he had never seen it . 
The work had been carried on through agents , S. Behrman having far too many and more pressing occupations to demand his presence and attention . 
Now , however , he was to see the concrete evidence of his success for the first time . 
He picked his way across the railroad tracks to the line of warehouses that bordered the docks , numbered with enormous Roman numerals and full of grain in bags . 
The sight of these bags of grain put him in mind of the fact that among all the other shippers he was practically alone in his way of handling his wheat . 
They handled the grain in bags he , however , preferred it in the bulk . 
Bags were sometimes four cents apiece , and he had decided to build his elevator and bulk his grain therein , rather than to incur this expense . 
Only a small part of his wheat that on Number Three division had been sacked . 
All the rest , practically two thirds of the entire harvest of Los Muertos , now found itself warehoused in his enormous elevator at Port Costa . 
To a certain degree it had been the desire of observing the working of his system of handling the wheat in bulk that had drawn S. Behrman to Port Costa . 
But the more powerful motive had been curiosity , not to say downright sentiment . 
He passed through the warehouses and came out upon the dock that ran parallel with the shore of the bay . 
Some were still in the stream , loaded with wheat to the Plimsoll mark , ready to depart with the next tide . 
But many others laid their great flanks alongside the docks and at that moment were being filled by derrick and crane with thousands upon thousands of bags of wheat . 
All around were the noises of ships and the feel and flavor of the sea . 
S. Behrman soon discovered his elevator . 
It was the largest structure discernible , and upon its red roof , in enormous white letters , was his own name . 
Thither , between piles of grain bags , halted drays , crates and boxes of merchandise , with an occasional pyramid of salmon cases , S. Behrman took his way . 
Cabled to the dock , close under his elevator , lay a great ship with lofty masts and great spars . 
Her stern was toward him as he approached , and upon it , in raised golden letters , he could read the words Swanhilda Liverpool . 
He went aboard by a very steep gangway and found the mate on the quarter deck . 
Well , he added , how are you getting on ? Very fairly , sir , returned the mate , who was an Englishman . 
We'll have her all snugged down tight by this time , day after to morrow . 
It's a great saving of time shunting the stuff in her like that , and three men can do the work of seven . 
I'll have a look 'round , I believe , returned S. Behrman . 
Right oh , answered the mate with a nod . 
S. Behrman went forward to the hatch that opened down into the vast hold of the ship . 
A great iron chute connected this hatch with the elevator , and through it was rushing a veritable cataract of wheat . 
No men were in sight . 
No human agency seemed to be back of the movement of the wheat . 
Rather , the grain seemed impelled with a force of its own , a resistless , huge force , eager , vivid , impatient for the sea . 
S. Behrman stood watching , his ears deafened with the roar of the hard grains against the metallic lining of the chute . 
He put his hand once into the rushing tide , and the contact rasped the flesh of his fingers and like an undertow drew his hand after it in its impetuous dash . 
Cautiously he peered down into the hold . 
A musty odour rose to his nostrils , the vigorous , pungent aroma of the raw cereal . 
As he stood there , this cataract on a sudden increased in volume . 
He turned about , casting his eyes upward toward the elevator to discover the cause . 
His foot caught in a coil of rope , and he fell headforemost into the hold . 
The fall was a long one and he struck the surface of the wheat with the sodden impact of a bundle of damp clothes . 
For the moment he was stunned . 
All the breath was driven from his body . 
He could neither move nor cry out . 
But , by degrees , his wits steadied themselves and his breath returned to him . 
He looked about and above him . 
He got upon his feet only to find that he sunk ankle deep in the loose packed mass underfoot . 
Hell , he muttered , here's a fix . 
Even as S. Behrman spoke , a wave of grain poured around his legs and rose rapidly to the level of his knees . 
To stay near the chute would soon bury him to the waist . 
No doubt , there was some other exit from the hold , some companion ladder that led up to the deck . 
He scuffled and waded across the wheat , groping in the dark with outstretched hands . 
With every inhalation he choked , filling his mouth and nostrils more with dust than with air . 
At times he could not breathe at all , but gagged and gasped , his lips distended . 
But search as he would he could find no outlet to the hold , no stairway , no companion ladder . 
Again and again , staggering along in the black darkness , he bruised his knuckles and forehead against the iron sides of the ship . 
He gave up the attempt to find any interior means of escape and returned laboriously to the space under the open hatchway . 
Already he could see that the level of the wheat was raised . 
God , he said , this isn't going to do at all . 
He uttered a great shout . 
Hello , on deck there , somebody . 
The steady , metallic roar of the pouring wheat drowned out his voice . 
He could scarcely hear it himself above the rush of the cataract . 
Besides this , he found it impossible to stay under the hatch . 
The flying grains of wheat , spattering as they fell , stung his face like wind driven particles of ice . 
It was a veritable torture his hands smarted with it . 
Once he was all but blinded . 
Once more he retreated , drawing back from beneath the hatch . 
He stood still for a moment and shouted again . 
A frenzy of terror suddenly leaped to life within him . 
The horror of death , the Fear of The Trap , shook him like a dry reed . 
Shouting , he tore himself free of the wheat and once more scrambled and struggled towards the hatchway . 
He stumbled as he reached it and fell directly beneath the pour . 
Like a storm of small shot , mercilessly , pitilessly , the unnumbered multitude of hurtling grains flagellated and beat and tore his flesh . 
Blood streamed from his forehead and , thickening with the powder like chaff dust , blinded his eyes . 
He struggled to his feet once more . 
An avalanche from the cone of wheat buried him to his thighs . 
He was forced back and back and back , beating the air , falling , rising , howling for aid . 
He could no longer see his eyes , crammed with dust , smarted as if transfixed with needles whenever he opened them . 
His mouth was full of the dust , his lips were dry with it thirst tortured him , while his outcries choked and gagged in his rasped throat . 
He retreated to a far corner of the hold and sat down with his back against the iron hull of the ship and tried to collect his thoughts , to calm himself . 
Surely there must be some way of escape surely he was not to die like this , die in this dreadful substance that was neither solid nor fluid . 
It reached him where he sat and buried his hand and one foot . 
He sprang up trembling and made for another corner . 
By God , he cried , by God , I must think of something pretty quick ! Once more the level of the wheat rose and the grains began piling deeper about him . 
Furious and with bleeding hands and broken nails , he dug his way out to fall backward , all but exhausted , gasping for breath in the dust thickened air . 
He turned about , the blood streaming from his face , and paused to collect his senses , and with a rush , another wave swirled about his ankles and knees . 
Guided by the sound of the falling wheat , S. Behrman crawled on hands and knees toward the hatchway . 
Once more he raised his voice in a shout for help . 
His bleeding throat and raw , parched lips refused to utter but a wheezing moan . 
Once more he tried to look toward the one patch of faint light above him . 
His eye lids , clogged with chaff , could no longer open . 
The Wheat poured about his waist as he raised himself upon his knees . 
The Wheat , leaping continuously from the chute , poured around him . 
Upon the surface of the Wheat , under the chute , nothing moved but the Wheat itself . 
There was no sign of life . 
Then , for an instant , the surface stirred . 
A hand , fat , with short fingers and swollen veins , reached up , clutching , then fell limp and prone . 
In another instant it was covered . 
He sent his trunks aboard and at once hurried to Cedarquist's office to say good bye . 
He found the manufacturer in excellent spirits . 
What do you think of Lyman Derrick now , Presley ? he said , when Presley had sat down . 
He's in the new politics with a vengeance , isn't he ? And our own dear Railroad openly acknowledges him as their candidate . 
You've heard of his canvass . 
Yes , yes , answered Presley . 
Well , he knows his business best . 
But Cedarquist was full of another idea his new venture the organizing of a line of clipper wheat ships for Pacific and Oriental trade was prospering . 
The 'Swanhilda' is the mother of the fleet , Pres . 
I had to buy HER , but the keel of her sister ship will be laid by the time she discharges at Calcutta . 
We'll carry our wheat into Asia yet . 
The Anglo Saxon started from there at the beginning of everything and it's manifest destiny that he must circle the globe and fetch up where he began his march . 
You are up with procession , Pres , going to India this way in a wheat ship that flies American colours . 
Yes , I've given it up definitely , that business . 
The people here would not back me up . 
But I'm working off on this new line now . 
It may break me , but we'll try it on . 
You know the 'Million Dollar Fair' was formally opened yesterday . 
There is , he added with a wink , a Midway Pleasance in connection with the thing . 
Mrs. Cedarquist and our friend Hartrath 'got up a subscription' to construct a figure of California heroic size out of dried apricots . 
I assure you , he remarked With prodigious gravity , it is a real work of art and quite a 'feature' of the Fair . 
Well , good luck to you , Pres . 
Write to me from Honolulu , and bon voyage . 
My respects to the hungry Hindoo . 
Tell him 'we're coming , Father Abraham , a hundred thousand more . 
Tell the men of the East to look out for the men of the West . 
The irrepressible Yank is knocking at the doors of their temples and he will want to sell 'em carpet sweepers for their harems and electric light plants for their temple shrines . 
Get fat yourself while you're about it , Presley , he observed , as the two stood up and shook hands . 
There shouldn't be any lack of food on a wheat ship . 
'Man cannot live by bread alone . 
Well , you're really off . 
On the cloth , in great letters , were the words Vote for Lyman Derrick , Regular Republican Nominee for Governor of California . 
It was drawing towards evening and her lights had just been set . 
I see , answered Presley , I see . 
I am glad to know that . 
Those were the mountains of the Coast range and beyond them was what once had been his home . 
Bonneville was there , and Guadalajara and Los Muertos and Quien Sabe , the Mission of San Juan , the Seed ranch , Annixter's desolated home and Dyke's ruined hop fields . 
Well , it was all over now , that terrible drama through which he had lived . 
Already it was far distant from him but once again it rose in his memory , portentous , sombre , ineffaceable . 
He passed it all in review from the day of his first meeting with Vanamee to the day of his parting with Hilma . 
The fight of Ranch and Railroad had been wrought out to its dreadful close . 
Yes , the Railroad had prevailed . 
The ranches had been seized in the tentacles of the octopus the iniquitous burden of extortionate freight rates had been imposed like a yoke of iron . 
The monster had killed Harran , had killed Osterman , had killed Broderson , had killed Hooven . 
It had beggared Magnus and had driven him to a state of semi insanity after he had wrecked his honour in the vain attempt to do evil that good might come . 
It had cast forth Mrs. Hooven to starve to death upon the City streets . 
It had driven Minna to prostitution . 
It had widowed Hilma in the very dawn of her happiness . 
It had killed the very babe within the mother's womb , strangling life ere yet it had been born , stamping out the spark ordained by God to burn through all eternity . 
In that little , isolated group of human insects , misery , death , and anguish spun like a wheel of fire . 
Falseness dies injustice and oppression in the end of everything fade and vanish away . 
Greed , cruelty , selfishness , and inhumanity are short lived the individual suffers , but the race goes on . 
Annixter dies , but in a far distant corner of the world a thousand lives are saved . 
