The surgeon had been sitting with his face turned towards the fire giving the palms of his hands a warm and a rub alternately . 
Apparently this consolatory perspective of a mother's prospects failed in producing its due effect . 
The patient shook her head , and stretched out her hand towards the child . 
The surgeon deposited it in her arms . 
She imprinted her cold white lips passionately on its forehead passed her hands over her face gazed wildly round shuddered fell back and died . 
They chafed her breast , hands , and temples but the blood had stopped forever . 
They talked of hope and comfort . 
They had been strangers too long . 
'It's all over , Mrs. Thingummy ! said the surgeon at last . 
'Poor dear ! 'You needn't mind sending up to me , if the child cries , nurse , said the surgeon , putting on his gloves with great deliberation . 
'It's very likely it WILL be troublesome . 
Give it a little gruel if it is . 
She was found lying in the street . 
She had walked some distance , for her shoes were worn to pieces but where she came from , or where she was going to , nobody knows . 
The surgeon leaned over the body , and raised the left hand . 
'The old story , he said , shaking his head 'no wedding ring , I see . 
If he could have known that he was an orphan , left to the tender mercies of church wardens and overseers , perhaps he would have cried the louder . 
CHAPTER II TREATS OF OLIVER TWIST'S GROWTH , EDUCATION , AND BOARD For the next eight or ten months , Oliver was the victim of a systematic course of treachery and deception . 
He was brought up by hand . 
The hungry and destitute situation of the infant orphan was duly reported by the workhouse authorities to the parish authorities . 
The workhouse authorities replied with humility , that there was not . 
The elderly female was a woman of wisdom and experience she knew what was good for children and she had a very accurate perception of what was good for herself . 
So , she appropriated the greater part of the weekly stipend to her own use , and consigned the rising parochial generation to even a shorter allowance than was originally provided for them . 
Thereby finding in the lowest depth a deeper still and proving herself a very great experimental philosopher . 
, and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted which was very self devotional . 
Besides , the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm , and always sent the beadle the day before , to say they were going . 
Oliver Twist's ninth birthday found him a pale thin child , somewhat diminutive in stature , and decidely small in circumference . 
But nature or inheritance had implanted a good sturdy spirit in Oliver's breast . 
It had had plenty of room to expand , thanks to the spare diet of the establishment and perhaps to this circumstance may be attributed his having any ninth birth day at all . 
'Goodness gracious ! Is that you , Mr. Bumble , sir ? said Mrs. Mann , thrusting her head out of the window in well affected ecstasies of joy . 
Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church warden , it by no means mollified the beadle . 
Mr. Bumble had a great idea of his oratorical powers and his importance . 
He had displayed the one , and vindicated the other . 
'Well , well , Mrs. Mann , he replied in a calmer tone 'it may be as you say it may be . 
Lead the way in , Mrs. Mann , for I come on business , and have something to say . 
Mrs. Mann ushered the beadle into a small parlour with a brick floor placed a seat for him and officiously deposited his cocked hat and can on the table before him . 
Mr. Bumble wiped from his forehead the perspiration which his walk had engendered , glanced complacently at the cocked hat , and smiled . 
Beadles are but men and Mr. Bumble smiled . 
'Now don't you be offended at what I'm a going to say , observed Mrs. Mann , with captivating sweetness . 
'You've had a long walk , you know , or I wouldn't mention it . 
Now , will you take a little drop of somethink , Mr. Bumble ? 'Not a drop . 
Nor a drop , said Mr. Bumble , waving his right hand in a dignified , but placid manner . 
'I think you will , said Mrs. Mann , who had noticed the tone of the refusal , and the gesture that had accompanied it . 
'Just a leetle drop , with a little cold water , and a lump of sugar . 
'Now , just a leetle drop , said Mrs. Mann persuasively . 
'What is it ? inquired the beadle . 
I'll not deceive you , Mr. B. It's gin . 
'Do you give the children Daffy , Mrs. Mann ? inquired Bumble , following with this eyes the interesting process of mixing . 
'Ah , bless 'em , that I do , dear as it is , replied the nurse . 
'I couldn't see 'em suffer before my very eyes , you know sir . 
'No' said Mr. Bumble approvingly 'no , you could not . 
You are a humane woman , Mrs. Mann . 
'I shall take a early opportunity of mentioning it to the board , Mrs. Mann . 
'You feel as a mother , Mrs. Mann . 
'I I drink your health with cheerfulness , Mrs. Mann' and he swallowed half of it . 
'And now about business , said the beadle , taking out a leathern pocket book . 
'The child that was half baptized Oliver Twist , is nine year old to day . 
'Bless him ! interposed Mrs. Mann , inflaming her left eye with the corner of her apron . 
'And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound , which was afterwards increased to twenty pound . 
'You , Mr. Bumble ! 'I , Mrs. Mann . 
We name our fondlings in alphabetical order . 
The last was a S , Swubble , I named him . 
This was a T , Twist , I named HIM . 
The next one comes will be Unwin , and the next Vilkins . 
'Well , well , said the beadle , evidently gratified with the compliment 'perhaps I may be . 
Perhaps I may be , Mrs. Mann . 
He finished the gin and water , and added , 'Oliver being now too old to remain here , the board have determined to have him back into the house . 
I have come out myself to take him there . 
So let me see him at once . 
'I'll fetch him directly , said Mrs. Mann , leaving the room for that purpose . 
'Make a bow to the gentleman , Oliver , said Mrs. Mann . 
Oliver made a bow , which was divided between the beadle on the chair , and the cocked hat on the table . 
'Will you go along with me , Oliver ? said Mr. Bumble , in a majestic voice . 
He took the hint at once , for the fist had been too often impressed upon his body not to be deeply impressed upon his recollection . 
'Will she go with me ? inquired poor Oliver . 
'No , she can't , replied Mr. Bumble . 
'But she'll come and see you sometimes . 
This was no very great consolation to the child . 
Young as he was , however , he had sense enough to make a feint of feeling great regret at going away . 
It was no very difficult matter for the boy to call tears into his eyes . 
Hunger and recent ill usage are great assistants if you want to cry and Oliver cried very naturally indeed . 
And yet he burst into an agony of childish grief , as the cottage gate closed after him . 
At the top of the table , seated in an arm chair rather higher than the rest , was a particularly fat gentleman with a very round , red face . 
'Bow to the board , said Bumble . 
Oliver brushed away two or three tears that were lingering in his eyes and seeing no board but the table , fortunately bowed to that . 
'What's your name , boy ? said the gentleman in the high chair . 
Oliver was frightened at the sight of so many gentlemen , which made him tremble and the beadle gave him another tap behind , which made him cry . 
These two causes made him answer in a very low and hesitating voice whereupon a gentleman in a white waistcoat said he was a fool . 
Which was a capital way of raising his spirits , and putting him quite at his ease . 
'Boy , said the gentleman in the high chair , 'listen to me . 
You know you're an orphan , I suppose ? 'What's that , sir ? inquired poor Oliver . 
'The boy IS a fool I thought he was , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'Hush ! said the gentleman who had spoken first . 
'You know you've got no father or mother , and that you were brought up by the parish , don't you ? 'Yes , sir , replied Oliver , weeping bitterly . 
'What are you crying for ? inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
And to be sure it was very extraordinary . 
'Yes , sir , stammered the boy . 
The gentleman who spoke last was unconsciously right . 
It would have been very like a Christian , and a marvellously good Christian too , if Oliver had prayed for the people who fed and took care of HIM . 
But he hadn't , because nobody had taught him . 
'Well ! You have come here to be educated , and taught a useful trade , said the red faced gentleman in the high chair . 
'So you'll begin to pick oakum to morrow morning at six o'clock , added the surly one in the white waistcoat . 
'Oho ! said the board , looking very knowing 'we are the fellows to set this to rights we'll stop it all , in no time . 
, of being starved by a gradual process in the house , or by a quick one out of it . 
The relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel and that frightened people . 
For the first six months after Oliver Twist was removed , the system was in full operation . 
But the number of workhouse inmates got thin as well as the paupers and the board were in ecstasies . 
Of this festive composition each boy had one porringer , and no more except on occasions of great public rejoicing , when he had two ounces and a quarter of bread besides . 
The bowls never wanted washing . 
Boys have generally excellent appetites . 
He had a wild , hungry eye and they implicitly believed him . 
A council was held lots were cast who should walk up to the master after supper that evening , and ask for more and it fell to Oliver Twist . 
The evening arrived the boys took their places . 
The gruel disappeared the boys whispered each other , and winked at Oliver while his next neighbours nudged him . 
Child as he was , he was desperate with hunger , and reckless with misery . 
He rose from the table and advancing to the master , basin and spoon in hand , said somewhat alarmed at his own temerity 'Please , sir , I want some more . 
The master was a fat , healthy man but he turned very pale . 
He gazed in stupified astonishment on the small rebel for some seconds , and then clung for support to the copper . 
The assistants were paralysed with wonder the boys with fear . 
'What ! said the master at length , in a faint voice . 
'Please , sir , replied Oliver , 'I want some more . 
The master aimed a blow at Oliver's head with the ladle pinioned him in his arm and shrieked aloud for the beadle . 
The board were sitting in solemn conclave , when Mr. Bumble rushed into the room in great excitement , and addressing the gentleman in the high chair , said , 'Mr . 
Limbkins , I beg your pardon , sir ! Oliver Twist has asked for more ! There was a general start . 
Horror was depicted on every countenance . 
'For MORE ! said Mr. Limbkins . 
'Compose yourself , Bumble , and answer me distinctly . 
Do I understand that he asked for more , after he had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary ? 'He did , sir , replied Bumble . 
'That boy will be hung , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'I know that boy will be hung . 
Nobody controverted the prophetic gentleman's opinion . 
An animated discussion took place . 
In other words , five pounds and Oliver Twist were offered to any man or woman who wanted an apprentice to any trade , business , or calling . 
, if I ventured to hint just yet , whether the life of Oliver Twist had this violent termination or no . 
There was a still greater obstacle in Oliver's youth and childishness . 
As for society , he was carried every other day into the hall where the boys dined , and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example . 
'Wo o ! said Mr. Gamfield to the donkey . 
He then gave him another blow on the head , just to stun him till he came back again . 
Having completed these arrangements , he walked up to the gate , to read the bill . 
The gentleman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with his hands behind him , after having delivered himself of some profound sentiments in the board room . 
So , he spelt the bill through again , from beginning to end and then , touching his fur cap in token of humility , accosted the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'This here boy , sir , wot the parish wants to 'prentis , said Mr. Gamfield . 
'Ay , my man , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat , with a condescending smile . 
'Walk in , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'It's a nasty trade , said Mr. Limbkins , when Gamfield had again stated his wish . 
'Young boys have been smothered in chimneys before now , said another gentleman . 
Boys is wery obstinit , and wery lazy , Gen'l'men , and there's nothink like a good hot blaze to make 'em come down vith a run . 
It's humane too , gen'l'men , acause , even if they've stuck in the chimbley , roasting their feet makes 'em struggle to hextricate theirselves . 
The gentleman in the white waistcoat appeared very much amused by this explanation but his mirth was speedily checked by a look from Mr. Limbkins . 
These only chanced to be heard , indeed , or account of their being very frequently repeated with great emphasis . 
'Not at all , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'Decidedly not , added the other members . 
'So you won't let me have him , gen'l'men ? said Mr. Gamfield , pausing near the door . 
'No , replied Mr. Limbkins 'at least , as it's a nasty business , we think you ought to take something less than the premium we offered . 
What'll you give ? 'I should say , three pound ten was plenty , said Mr. Limbkins . 
'Ten shillings too much , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'Come ! said Gamfield 'say four pound , gen'l'men . 
Say four pound , and you've got rid of him for good and all . 
There ! 'Three pound ten , repeated Mr. Limbkins , firmly . 
'Come ! I'll split the diff'erence , gen'l'men , urged Gamfield . 
'Not a farthing more , was the firm reply of Mr. Limbkins . 
'You're desperate hard upon me , gen'l'men , said Gamfield , wavering . 
'Pooh ! pooh ! nonsense ! said the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'He'd be cheap with nothing at all , as a premium . 
Take him , you silly fellow ! He's just the boy for you . 
He wants the stick , now and then it'll do him good and his board needn't come very expensive , for he hasn't been overfed since he was born . 
Mr. Bumble , was at once instructed that Oliver Twist and his indentures were to be conveyed before the magistrate , for signature and approval , that very afternoon . 
In pursuance of this determination , little Oliver , to his excessive astonishment , was released from bondage , and ordered to put himself into a clean shirt . 
'Don't make your eyes red , Oliver , but eat your food and be thankful , said Mr. Bumble , in a tone of impressive pomposity . 
'You're a going to be made a 'prentice of , Oliver . 
'A prentice , sir ! said the child , trembling . 
'Yes , Oliver , said Mr. Bumble . 
As Mr. Bumble paused to take breath , after delivering this address in an awful voice , the tears rolled down the poor child's face , and he sobbed bitterly . 
It certainly was , for there was quite enough water in it already . 
There the boy remained , with a palpitating heart , for half an hour . 
At the expiration of which time Mr. Bumble thrust in his head , unadorned with the cocked hat , and said aloud 'Now , Oliver , my dear , come to the gentleman . 
It was a large room , with a great window . 
'This is the boy , your worship , said Mr. Bumble . 
The old gentleman who was reading the newspaper raised his head for a moment , and pulled the other old gentleman by the sleeve whereupon , the last mentioned old gentleman woke up . 
'Oh , is this the boy ? said the old gentleman . 
'This is him , sir , replied Mr. Bumble . 
'Bow to the magistrate , my dear . 
Oliver roused himself , and made his best obeisance . 
'And he WILL be a sweep , will he ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'If we was to bind him to any other trade to morrow , he'd run away simultaneous , your worship , replied Bumble . 
'When I says I will , I means I will , replied Mr. Gamfield doggedly . 
But the magistrate was half blind and half childish , so he couldn't reasonably be expected to discern what other people did . 
'I hope I am , sir , said Mr. Gamfield , with an ugly leer . 
'I have no doubt you are , my friend , replied the old gentleman fixing his spectacles more firmly on his nose , and looking about him for the inkstand . 
It was the critical moment of Oliver's fate . 
The old gentleman stopped , laid down his pen , and looked from Oliver to Mr. Limbkins who attempted to take snuff with a cheerful and unconcerned aspect . 
'My boy ! said the old gentleman , 'you look pale and alarmed . 
What is the matter ? 'Stand a little away from him , Beadle , said the other magistrate laying aside the paper , and leaning forward with an expression of interest . 
'Now , boy , tell us what's the matter don't be afraid . 
'Well ! said Mr. Bumble , raising his hands and eyes with most impressive solemnite . 
'Well ! of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see , Oliver , you are one of the most bare facedest . 
'Hold your tongue , Beadle , said the second old gentleman , when Mr. Bumble had given vent to this compound adjective . 
'I beg your worship's pardon , said Mr. Bumble , incredulous of having heard aright . 
'Did your worship speak to me ? 'Yes . 
Mr. Bumble was stupefied with astonishment . 
A beadle ordered to hold his tongue ! A moral revolution ! The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles looked at his companion , he nodded significantly . 
'We refuse to sanction these indentures , said the old gentleman tossing aside the piece of parchment as he spoke . 
'I hope , stammered Mr. Limbkins 'I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct , on the unsupported testimony of a child . 
'The magistrates are not called upon to pronounce any opinion on the matter , said the second old gentleman sharply . 
'Take the boy back to the workhouse , and treat him kindly . 
He seems to want it . 
The next morning , the public were once informed that Oliver Twist was again To Let , and that five pounds would be paid to anybody who would take possession of him . 
Mr. Sowerberry was a tall gaunt , large jointed man , attired in a suit of threadbare black , with darned cotton stockings of the same colour , and shoes to answer . 
His features were not naturally intended to wear a smiling aspect , but he was in general rather given to professional jocosity . 
His step was elastic , and his face betokened inward pleasantry , as he advanced to Mr. Bumble , and shook him cordially by the hand . 
'I have taken the measure of the two women that died last night , Mr. Bumble , said the undertaker . 
'I say you'll make your fortune , Mr. Sowerberry , repeated Mr. Bumble , tapping the undertaker on the shoulder , in a friendly manner , with his cane . 
'Think so ? said the undertaker in a tone which half admitted and half disputed the probability of the event . 
'The prices allowed by the board are very small , Mr. Bumble . 
'So are the coffins , replied the beadle with precisely as near an approach to a laugh as a great official ought to indulge in . 
Mr. Sowerberry was much tickled at this as of course he ought to be and laughed a long time without cessation . 
Well seasoned timber is an expensive article , sir and all the iron handles come , by canal , from Birmingham . 
'Well , well , said Mr. Bumble , 'every trade has its drawbacks . 
A fair profit is , of course , allowable . 
Oliver Twist being uppermost in his mind , he made him his theme . 
'Gadso ! said the undertaker taking Mr. Bumble by the gilt edged lappel of his official coat 'that's just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about . 
You know dear me , what a very elegant button this is , Mr. Bumble ! I never noticed it before . 
'Yes , I think it rather pretty , said the beadle , glancing proudly downwards at the large brass buttons which embellished his coat . 
'The die is the same as the porochial seal the Good Samaritan healing the sick and bruised man . 
The board presented it to me on Newyear's morning , Mr. Sowerberry . 
I put it on , I remember , for the first time , to attend the inquest on that reduced tradesman , who died in a doorway at midnight . 
'I recollect , said the undertaker . 
'The jury brought it in , Died from exposure to the cold , and want of the common necessaries of life , didn't they ? Mr. Bumble nodded . 
'If the board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurymen talk , they'd have enough to do . 
'Very true , said the undertaker 'they would indeed . 
'Juries , said Mr. Bumble , grasping his cane tightly , as was his wont when working into a passion 'juries is ineddicated , vulgar , grovelling wretches . 
'So they are , said the undertaker . 
'They haven't no more philosophy nor political economy about 'em than that , said the beadle , snapping his fingers contemptuously . 
'No more they have , acquiesced the undertaker . 
'I despise 'em , said the beadle , growing very red in the face . 
'So do I , rejoined the undertaker . 
'Let 'em alone for that , replied the undertaker . 
So saying , he smiled , approvingly to calm the rising wrath of the indignant parish officer . 
'Hem ! said Mr. Bumble . 
Mr. Bumble grasped the undertaker by the arm , and led him into the building . 
'Oliver ! said Mr. Bumble . 
'Yes , sir , replied Oliver , in a low , tremulous voice . 
'Pull that cap off your eyes , and hold up your head , sir . 
As Mr. Bumble gazed sternly upon him , it rolled down his cheek . 
It was followed by another , and another . 
The child made a strong effort , but it was an unsuccessful one . 
Withdrawing his other hand from Mr. Bumble's he covered his face with both and wept until the tears sprung out from between his chin and bony fingers . 
'Well ! exclaimed Mr. Bumble , stopping short , and darting at his little charge a look of intense malignity . 
'So lonely , sir ! So very lonely ! cried the child . 
Oh ! sir , don't , don't pray be cross to me ! The child beat his hand upon his heart and looked in his companion's face , with tears of real agony . 
Then once more taking his hand , he walked on with him in silence . 
'Here ! I've brought the boy . 
'Oh ! that's the boy , is it ? said the undertaker raising the candle above his head , to get a better view of Oliver . 
'My dear , said Mr. Sowerberry , deferentially , 'this is the boy from the workhouse that I told you of . 
'Dear me ! said the undertaker's wife , 'he's very small . 
'Why , he IS rather small , replied Mr. Bumble looking at Oliver as if it were his fault that he was no bigger 'he is small . 
But he'll grow , Mrs. Sowerberry he'll grow . 
'Ah ! I dare say he will , replied the lady pettishly , 'on our victuals and our drink . 
I see no saving in parish children , not I for they always cost more to keep , than they're worth . 
However , men always think they know best . 
There ! Get downstairs , little bag o' bones . 
'Here , Charlotte , said Mr. Sowerberry , who had followed Oliver down , 'give this boy some of the cold bits that were put by for Trip . 
He hasn't come home since the morning , so he may go without 'em . 
I wish he could have witnessed the horrible avidity with which Oliver tore the bits asunder with all the ferocity of famine . 
There is only one thing I should like better and that would be to see the Philosopher making the same sort of meal himself , with the same relish . 
'Then come with me , said Mrs. Sowerberry taking up a dim and dirty lamp , and leading the way upstairs 'your bed's under the counter . 
You don't mind sleeping among the coffins , I suppose ? But it doesn't much matter whether you do or don't , for you can't sleep anywhere else . 
Come don't keep me here all night ! Oliver lingered no longer , but meekly followed his new mistress . 
CHAPTER V OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES . 
The shop was close and hot . 
The atmosphere seemed tainted with the smell of coffins . 
The recess beneath the counter in which his flock mattress was thrust , looked like a grave . 
Nor were these the only dismal feelings which depressed Oliver . 
He was alone in a strange place and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of us will sometimes feel in such a situation . 
The boy had no friends to care for , or to care for him . 
The regret of no recent separation was fresh in his mind the absence of no loved and well remembered face sank heavily into his heart . 
When he began to undo the chain , the legs desisted , and a voice began . 
'Open the door , will yer ? cried the voice which belonged to the legs which had kicked at the door . 
'I will , directly , sir , replied Oliver undoing the chain , and turning the key . 
'I suppose yer the new boy , ain't yer ? said the voice through the key hole . 
'Yes , sir , replied Oliver . 
'How old are yer ? inquired the voice . 
'Ten , sir , replied Oliver . 
He drew back the bolts with a trembling hand , and opened the door . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said Oliver at length seeing that no other visitor made his appearance 'did you knock ? 'I kicked , replied the charity boy . 
'Did you want a coffin , sir ? inquired Oliver , innocently . 
At this , the charity boy looked monstrous fierce and said that Oliver would want one before long , if he cut jokes with his superiors in that way . 
'Yer don't know who I am , I suppose , Work'us ? said the charity boy , in continuation descending from the top of the post , meanwhile , with edifying gravity . 
'No , sir , rejoined Oliver . 
'I'm Mister Noah Claypole , said the charity boy , 'and you're under me . 
Mr. Sowerberry came down soon after . 
Shortly afterwards , Mrs. Sowerberry appeared . 
Oliver having 'caught it , in fulfilment of Noah's prediction , followed that young gentleman down the stairs to breakfast . 
'Come near the fire , Noah , said Charlotte . 
'I saved a nice little bit of bacon for you from master's breakfast . 
Oliver , shut that door at Mister Noah's back , and take them bits that I've put out on the cover of the bread pan . 
There's your tea take it away to that box , and drink it there , and make haste , for they'll want you to mind the shop . 
D'ye hear ? 'D'ye hear , Work'us ? said Noah Claypole . 
'Lor , Noah ! said Charlotte , 'what a rum creature you are ! Why don't you let the boy alone ? 'Let him alone ! said Noah . 
'Why everybody lets him alone enough , for the matter of that . 
Neither his father nor his mother will ever interfere with him . 
All his relations let him have his own way pretty well . 
Noah was a charity boy , but not a workhouse orphan . 
But , now that fortune had cast in his way a nameless orphan , at whom even the meanest could point the finger of scorn , he retorted on him with interest . 
This affords charming food for contemplation . 
It shows us what a beautiful thing human nature may be made to be and how impartially the same amiable qualities are developed in the finest lord and the dirtiest charity boy . 
Oliver had been sojourning at the undertaker's some three weeks or a month . 
'Well , said Mrs. Sowerberry , sharply . 
'Nothing , my dear , nothing , said Mr. Sowerberry . 
'Ugh , you brute ! said Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'Not at all , my dear , said Mr. Sowerberry humbly . 
'I thought you didn't want to hear , my dear . 
I was only going to say 'Oh , don't tell me what you were going to say , interposed Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'I am nobody don't consult me , pray . 
I don't want to intrude upon your secrets . 
As Mrs. Sowerberry said this , she gave an hysterical laugh , which threatened violent consequences . 
'But , my dear , said Sowerberry , 'I want to ask your advice . 
'No , no , don't ask mine , replied Mrs. Sowerberry , in an affecting manner 'ask somebody else's . 
Here , there was another hysterical laugh , which frightened Mr. Sowerberry very much . 
After a short duration , the permission was most graciously conceded . 
'It's only about young Twist , my dear , said Mr. Sowerberry . 
'A very good looking boy , that , my dear . 
'He need be , for he eats enough , observed the lady . 
'There's an expression of melancholy in his face , my dear , resumed Mr. Sowerberry , 'which is very interesting . 
He would make a delightful mute , my love . 
Mrs. Sowerberry looked up with an expression of considerable wonderment . 
Mr. Sowerberry remarked it and , without allowing time for any observation on the good lady's part , proceeded . 
'I don't mean a regular mute to attend grown up people , my dear , but only for children's practice . 
It would be very new to have a mute in proportion , my dear . 
You may depend upon it , it would have a superb effect . 
The occasion was not long in coming . 
'Bayton , said the undertaker , looking from the scrap of paper to Mr. Bumble . 
'I never heard the name before . 
Bumble shook his head , as he replied , 'Obstinate people , Mr. Sowerberry very obstinate . 
Proud , too , I'm afraid , sir . 
'Proud , eh ? exclaimed Mr. Sowerberry with a sneer . 
'Come , that's too much . 
'Oh , it's sickening , replied the beadle . 
'Antimonial , Mr. Sowerberry ! 'So it is , asquiesced the undertaker . 
sent 'em some medicine in a blacking bottle , offhand . 
'Ah , there's promptness , said the undertaker . 
'Promptness , indeed ! replied the beadle . 
'Well , said the undertaker , 'I ne ver did 'Never did , sir ! ejaculated the beadle . 
'No , nor nobody never did but now she's dead , we've got to bury her and that's the direction and the sooner it's done , the better . 
Thus saying , Mr. Bumble put on his cocked hat wrong side first , in a fever of parochial excietment and flounced out of the shop . 
'Why , he was so angry , Oliver , that he forgot even to ask after you ! said Mr. Sowerberry , looking after the beadle as he strode down the street . 
'Well , said Mr. Sowerberry , taking up his hat . 
'the sooner this job is done , the better . 
Noah , look after the shop . 
Oliver , put on your cap , and come with me . 
Oliver obeyed , and followed his master on his professional mission . 
A great many of the tenements had shop fronts but these were fast closed , and mouldering away only the upper rooms being inhabited . 
The kennel was stagnant and filthy . 
The very rats , which here and there lay putrefying in its rottenness , were hideous with famine . 
Stumbling against a door on the landing , he rapped at it with his knuckles . 
It was opened by a young girl of thirteen or fourteen . 
The undertaker at once saw enough of what the room contained , to know it was the apartment to which he had been directed . 
He stepped in Oliver followed him . 
There was no fire in the room but a man was crouching , mechanically , over the empty stove . 
An old woman , too , had drawn a low stool to the cold hearth , and was sitting beside him . 
There were some ragged children in another corner and in a small recess , opposite the door , there lay upon the ground , something covered with an old blanket . 
Oliver shuddered as he cast his eyes toward the place , and crept involuntarily closer to his master for though it was covered up , the boy felt that it was a corpse . 
The man's face was thin and very pale his hair and beard were grizzly his eyes were blookshot . 
The old woman's face was wrinkled her two remaining teeth protruded over her under lip and her eyes were bright and piercing . 
Oliver was afriad to look at either her or the man . 
They seemed so like the rats he had seen outside . 
'Nobody shall go near her , said the man , starting fiercely up , as the undertaker approached the recess . 
'Nonsense ! 'I tell you , said the man clenching his hands , and stamping furiously on the floor , 'I tell you I won't have her put into the ground . 
The worms would worry her not eat her she is so worn away . 
The undertaker offered no reply to this raving but producing a tape from his pocket , knelt down for a moment by the side of the body . 
I never knew how bad she was , till the fever came upon her and then her bones were starting through the skin . 
There was neither fire nor candle she died in the dark in the dark ! She couldn't even see her children's faces , though we heard her gasping out their names . 
I begged for her in the streets and they sent me to prison . 
When I came back , she was dying and all the blood in my heart has dried up , for they starved her to death . 
The terrified children cried bitterly but the old woman , who had hitherto remained as quiet as if she had been wholly deaf to all that passed , menaced them into silence . 
Having unloosened the cravat of the man who still remained extended on the ground , she tottered towards the undertaker . 
'Stop , stop ! said the old woman in a loud whisper . 
'Will she be buried to morrow , or next day , or to night ? I laid her out and I must walk , you know . 
Send me a large cloak a good warm one for it is bitter cold . 
We should have cake and wine , too , before we go ! Never mind send some bread only a loaf of bread and a cup of water . 
Shall we have some bread , dear ? she said eagerly catching at the undertaker's coat , as he once more moved towards the door . 
'Yes , yes , said the undertaker , 'of course . 
Anything you like ! He disengaged himself from the old woman's grasp and , drawing Oliver after him , hurried away . 
Oliver and his master returned to the miserable abode where Mr. Bumble had already arrived , accompanied by four men from the workhouse , who were to act as bearers . 
Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry walked at a good smart pace in front and Oliver , whose legs were not so long as his master's , ran by the side . 
Mr. Sowerberry and Bumble , being personal friends of the clerk , sat by the fire with him , and read the paper . 
At length , after a lapse of something more than an hour , Mr. Bumble , and Sowerberry , and the clerk , were seen running towards the grave . 
Immediately afterwards , the clergyman appeared putting on his surplice as he came along . 
'Now , Bill ! said Sowerberry to the grave digger . 
'Fill up ! It was no very difficult task , for the grave was so full , that the uppermost coffin was within a few feet of the surface . 
'Come , my good fellow ! said Bumble , tapping the man on the back . 
'They want to shut up the yard . 
'Well , Oliver , said Sowerberry , as they walked home , 'how do you like it ? 'Pretty well , thank you , sir' replied Oliver , with considerable hesitation . 
'Not very much , sir . 
'Ah , you'll get used to it in time , Oliver , said Sowerberry . 
'Nothing when you ARE used to it , my boy . 
Oliver wondered , in his own mind , whether it had taken a very long time to get Mr. Sowerberry used to it . 
But he thought it better not to ask the question and walked back to the shop thinking over all he had seen and heard . 
CHAPTER VI OLIVER , BEING GOADED BY THE TAUNTS OF NOAH , ROUSES INTO ACTION , AND RATHER ASTONISHES HIM The month's trial over , Oliver was formally apprenticed . 
It was a nice sickly season just at this time . 
In commercial phrase , coffins were looking up and , in the course of a few weeks , Oliver acquired a great deal of experience . 
The success of Mr. Sowerberry's ingenious speculation , exceeded even his most sanguine hopes . 
Husbands , too , bore the loss of their wives with the most heroic calmness . 
All this was very pleasant and improving to see and Oliver beheld it with great admiration . 
But , making Oliver cry , Noah attempted to be more facetious still and in his attempt , did what many sometimes do to this day , when they want to be funny . 
Under this impression he returned to the charge . 
'What did she die of , Work'us ? said Noah . 
'Of a broken heart , some of our old nurses told me , replied Oliver more as if he were talking to himself , than answering Noah . 
'What's set you a snivelling now ? 'Not YOU , replied Oliver , sharply . 
Don't say anything more to me about her you'd better not ! 'Better not ! exclaimed Noah . 
'Well ! Better not ! Work'us , don't be impudent . 
YOUR mother , too ! She was a nice 'un she was . 
Oh , Lor ! And here , Noah nodded his head expressively and curled up as much of his small red nose as muscular action could collect together , for the occasion . 
But yer must know , Work'us , yer mother was a regular right down bad 'un . 
'What did you say ? inquired Oliver , looking up very quickly . 
'A regular right down bad 'un , Work'us , replied Noah , coolly . 
A minute ago , the boy had looked the quiet child , mild , dejected creature that harsh treatment had made him . 
But his spirit was roused at last the cruel insult to his dead mother had set his blood on fire . 
'He'll murder me ! blubbered Noah . 
'Oh , you little wretch ! screamed Charlotte seizing Oliver with her utmost force , which was about equal to that of a moderately strong man in particularly good training . 
In this favourable position of affairs , Noah rose from the ground , and pommelled him behind . 
This was rather too violent exercise to last long . 
This being done , Mrs. Sowerberry sunk into a chair , and burst into tears . 
'Bless her , she's going off ! said Charlotte . 
'A glass of water , Noah , dear . 
'Oh ! Charlotte , what a mercy we have not all been murdered in our beds ! 'Ah ! mercy indeed , ma'am , was the reply . 
I only hope this'll teach master not to have any more of these dreadful creatures , that are born to be murderers and robbers from their very cradle . 
Poor Noah ! He was all but killed , ma'am , when I come in . 
'Poor fellow ! said Mrs. Sowerberry looking piteously on the charity boy . 
'What's to be done ! exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'Your master's not at home there's not a man in the house , and he'll kick that door down in ten minutes . 
Oliver's vigorous plunges against the bit of timber in question , rendered this occurance highly probable . 
'Dear , dear ! I don't know , ma'am , said Charlotte , 'unless we send for the police officers . 
'Or the millingtary , suggested Mr. Claypole . 
'No , no , said Mrs. Sowerberry bethinking herself of Oliver's old friend . 
It'll keep the swelling down . 
CHAPTER VII OLIVER CONTINUES REFRACTORY Noah Claypole ran along the streets at his swiftest pace , and paused not once for breath , until he reached the workhouse gate . 
'Why , what's the matter with the boy ! said the old pauper . 
'Oh , Mr. Bumble , sir ! said Noah 'Oliver , sir , Oliver has 'What ? What ? interposed Mr. Bumble with a gleam of pleasure in his metallic eyes . 
'Not run away he hasn't run away , has he , Noah ? 'No , sir , no . 
Not run away , sir , but he's turned wicious , replied Noah . 
'He tried to murder me , sir and then he tried to murder Charlotte and then missis . 
'By Jove ! exclaimed the gentleman in the white waistcoat , stopping short . 
'And his missis , interposed Mr. Claypole . 
'And his master , too , I think you said , Noah ? added Mr. Bumble . 
'No ! he's out , or he would have murdered him , replied Noah . 
'He said he wanted to . 
'Ah ! Said he wanted to , did he , my boy ? inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat . 
'Yes , sir , replied Noah . 
'And please , sir , missis wants to know whether Mr. Bumble can spare time to step up there , directly , and flog him 'cause master's out . 
'Certainly , my boy certainly , said the gentleman in the white waistcoat smiling benignly , and patting Noah's head , which was about three inches higher than his own . 
'You're a good boy a very good boy . 
Here's a penny for you . 
Bumble , just step up to Sowerberry's with your cane , and seed what's best to be done . 
Don't spare him , Bumble . 
'No , I will not , sir , replied the beadle . 
And the cocked hat and cane having been , by this time , adjusted to their owner's satisfaction , Mr. Bumble and Noah Claypole betook themselves with all speed to the undertaker's shop . 
Here the position of affairs had not at all improved . 
Sowerberry had not yet returned , and Oliver continued to kick , with undiminished vigour , at the cellar door . 
The accounts of his ferocity as related by Mrs. Sowerberry and Charlotte , were of so startling a nature , that Mr. Bumble judged it prudent to parley , before opening the door . 
'Do you know this here voice , Oliver ? said Mr. Bumble . 
'Ain't you afraid of it , sir ? Ain't you a trembling while I speak , sir ? said Mr. Bumble . 
'No ! replied Oliver , boldly . 
An answer so different from the one he had expected to elicit , and was in the habit of receiving , staggered Mr. Bumble not a little . 
He stepped back from the keyhole drew himself up to his full height and looked from one to another of the three bystanders , in mute astonishment . 
'Oh , you know , Mr. Bumble , he must be mad , said Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'No boy in half his senses could venture to speak so to you . 
'It's not Madness , ma'am , replied Mr. Bumble , after a few moments of deep meditation . 
'What ? exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'Meat , ma'am , meat , replied Bumble , with stern emphasis . 
'You've over fed him , ma'am . 
You've raised a artificial soul and spirit in him , ma'am unbecoming a person of his condition as the board , Mrs. Sowerberry , who are practical philosophers , will tell you . 
What have paupers to do with soul or spirit ? It's quite enough that we let 'em have live bodies . 
If you had kept the boy on gruel , ma'am , this would never have happened . 
Of which , to do her justice , she was wholly innocent , in thought , word , or deed . 
He comes of a bad family . 
Sowerberry returned at this juncture . 
Oliver's clothes had been torn in the beating he had received his face was bruised and scratched and his hair scattered over his forehead . 
The angry flush had not disappeared , however and when he was pulled out of his prison , he scowled boldly on Noah , and looked quite undismayed . 
'Now , you are a nice young fellow , ain't you ? said Sowerberry giving Oliver a shake , and a box on the ear . 
'He called my mother names , replied Oliver . 
'Well , and what if he did , you little ungrateful wretch ? said Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'She deserved what he said , and worse . 
'She did , said Mrs. Sowerberry . 
'It's a lie ! said Oliver . 
Mrs. Sowerberry burst into a flood of tears . 
This flood of tears left Mr. Sowerberry no alternative . 
The candle was burning low in the socket when he rose to his feet . 
Having gazed cautiously round him , and listened intently , he gently undid the fastenings of the door , and looked abroad . 
It was a cold , dark night . 
He softly reclosed the door . 
With the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters , Oliver arose , and again unbarred the door . 
One timid look around one moment's pause of hesitation he had closed it behind him , and was in the open street . 
He looked to the right and to the left , uncertain whither to fly . 
He remembered to have seen the waggons , as they went out , toiling up the hill . 
Along this same footpath , Oliver well remembered he had trotted beside Mr. Bumble , when he first carried him to the workhouse from the farm . 
His way lay directly in front of the cottage . 
His heart beat quickly when he bethought himself of this and he half resolved to turn back . 
He had come a long way though , and should lose a great deal of time by doing so . 
Besides , it was so early that there was very little fear of his being seen so he walked on . 
There was no appearance of its inmates stirring at that early hour . 
Oliver stopped , and peeped into the garden . 
A child was weeding one of the little beds as he stopped , he raised his pale face and disclosed the features of one of his former companions . 
Oliver felt glad to see him , before he went for , though younger than himself , he had been his little friend and playmate . 
They had been beaten , and starved , and shut up together , many and many a time . 
'Hush , Dick ! said Oliver , as the boy ran to the gate , and thrust his thin arm between the rails to greet him . 
'Is any one up ? 'Nobody but me , replied the child . 
'You musn't say you saw me , Dick , said Oliver . 
They beat and ill use me , Dick and I am going to seek my fortune , some long way off . 
How pale you are ! 'I heard the doctor tell them I was dying , replied the child with a faint smile . 
'I am very glad to see you , dear but don't stop , don't stop ! 'Yes , yes , I will , to say good b'ye to you , replied Oliver . 
'I shall see you again , Dick . 
I know I shall ! You will be well and happy ! 'I hope so , replied the child . 
'After I am dead , but not before . 
I know the doctor must be right , Oliver , because I dream so much of Heaven , and Angels , and kind faces that I never see when I am awake . 
Kiss me , said the child , climbing up the low gate , and flinging his little arms round Oliver's neck . 
CHAPTER VIII OLIVER WALKS TO LONDON . 
HE ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD A STRANGE SORT OF YOUNG GENTLEMAN Oliver reached the stile at which the by path terminated and once more gained the high road . 
It was eight o'clock now . 
Though he was nearly five miles away from the town , he ran , and hid behind the hedges , by turns , till noon fearing that he might be pursued and overtaken . 
Then he sat down to rest by the side of the milestone , and began to think , for the first time , where he had better go and try to live . 
The stone by which he was seated , bore , in large characters , an intimation that it was just seventy miles from that spot to London . 
The name awakened a new train of ideas in the boy's mind . 
It was the very place for a homeless boy , who must die in the streets unless some one helped him . 
As these things passed through his thoughts , he jumped upon his feet , and again walked forward . 
He had diminished the distance between himself and London by full four miles more , before he recollected how much he must undergo ere he could hope to reach his place of destination . 
As this consideration forced itself upon him , he slackened his pace a little , and meditated upon his means of getting there . 
He had a crust of bread , a coarse shirt , and two pairs of stockings , in his bundle . 
He had a penny too a gift of Sowerberry's after some funeral in which he had acquitted himself more than ordinarily well in his pocket . 
When the night came , he turned into a meadow and , creeping close under a hay rick , determined to lie there , till morning . 
He felt frightened at first , for the wind moaned dismally over the empty fields and he was cold and hungry , and more alone than he had ever felt before . 
Being very tired with his walk , however , he soon fell asleep and forgot his troubles . 
He had walked no more than twelve miles , when night closed in again . 
His feet were sore , and his legs so weak that they trembled beneath him . 
Another night passed in the bleak damp air , made him worse when he set forward on his journey next morning he could hardly crawl along . 
Poor Oliver tried to keep up with the coach a little way , but was unable to do it , by reason of his fatigue and sore feet . 
In some villages , large painted boards were fixed up warning all persons who begged within the district , that they would be sent to jail . 
This frightened Oliver very much , and made him glad to get out of those villages with all possible expedition . 
Early on the seventh morning after he had left his native place , Oliver limped slowly into the little town of Barnet . 
The window shutters were closed the street was empty not a soul had awakened to the business of the day . 
By degrees , the shutters were opened the window blinds were drawn up and people began passing to and fro . 
He had no heart to beg . 
He took little heed of this at first but the boy remained in the same attitude of close observation so long , that Oliver raised his head , and returned his steady look . 
He was short of his age with rather bow legs , and little , sharp , ugly eyes . 
He wore a man's coat , which reached nearly to his heels . 
He was , altogether , as roystering and swaggering a young gentleman as ever stood four feet six , or something less , in the bluchers . 
'Hullo , my covey ! What's the row ? said this strange young gentleman to Oliver . 
'I am very hungry and tired , replied Oliver the tears standing in his eyes as he spoke . 
'I have walked a long way . 
I have been walking these seven days . 
'Walking for sivin days ! said the young gentleman . 
Beak's order , eh ? But , he added , noticing Oliver's look of surprise , 'I suppose you don't know what a beak is , my flash com pan i on . 
Oliver mildly replied , that he had always heard a bird's mouth described by the term in question . 
'My eyes , how green ! exclaimed the young gentleman . 
'Why , a beak's a madgst'rate and when you walk by a beak's order , it's not straight forerd , but always agoing up , and niver a coming down agin . 
Was you never on the mill ? 'What mill ? inquired Oliver . 
But come , said the young gentleman 'you want grub , and you shall have it . 
I'm at low water mark myself only one bob and a magpie but , as far as it goes , I'll fork out and stump . 
Up with you on your pins . 
Taking the bread under his arm , the young gentlman turned into a small public house , and led the way to a tap room in the rear of the premises . 
'Going to London ? said the strange boy , when Oliver had at length concluded . 
'Got any lodgings ? 'No . 
The strange boy whistled and put his arms into his pockets , as far as the big coat sleeves would let them go . 
'Do you live in London ? inquired Oliver . 
I do , when I'm at home , replied the boy . 
'I suppose you want some place to sleep in to night , don't you ? 'I do , indeed , answered Oliver . 
'I have not slept under a roof since I left the country . 
'Don't fret your eyelids on that score . 
And don't he know me ? Oh , no ! Not in the least ! By no means . 
Certainly not ! The young gentelman smiled , as if to intimate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical and finished the beer as he did so . 
As John Dawkins objected to their entering London before nightfall , it was nearly eleven o'clock when they reached the turnpike at Islington . 
They crossed from the Angel into St . 
A dirtier or more wretched place he had never seen . 
The street was very narrow and muddy , and the air was impregnated with filthy odours . 
Oliver was just considering whether he hadn't better run away , when they reached the bottom of the hill . 
His conductor , catching him by the arm , pushed open the door of a house near Field Lane and drawing him into the passage , closed it behind them . 
'Now , then ! cried a voice from below , in reply to a whistle from the Dodger . 
'Plummy and slam ! was the reply . 
'There's two on you , said the man , thrusting the candle farther out , and shielding his eyes with his hand . 
'Who's the t'other one ? 'A new pal , replied Jack Dawkins , pulling Oliver forward . 
'Where did he come from ? 'Greenland . 
Is Fagin upstairs ? 'Yes , he's a sortin' the wipes . 
Up with you ! The candle was drawn back , and the face disappeared . 
He threw open the door of a back room , and drew Oliver in after him . 
The walls and ceiling of the room were perfectly black with age and dirt . 
Several rough beds made of old sacks , were huddled side by side on the floor . 
Seated round the table were four or five boys , none older than the Dodger , smoking long clay pipes , and drinking spirits with the air of middle aged men . 
These all crowded about their associate as he whispered a few words to the Jew and then turned round and grinned at Oliver . 
So did the Jew himself , toasting fork in hand . 
'This is him , Fagin , said Jack Dawkins 'my friend Oliver Twist . 
The Jew grinned and , making a low obeisance to Oliver , took him by the hand , and hoped he should have the honour of his intimate acquaintance . 
Upon this , the young gentleman with the pipes came round him , and shook both his hands very hard especially the one in which he held his little bundle . 
These civilities would probably be extended much farther , but for a liberal exercise of the Jew's toasting fork on the heads and shoulders of the affectionate youths who offered them . 
'We are very glad to see you , Oliver , very , said the Jew . 
'Dodger , take off the sausages and draw a tub near the fire for Oliver . 
Ah , you're a staring at the pocket handkerchiefs ! eh , my dear . 
There are a good many of 'em , ain't there ? We've just looked 'em out , ready for the wash that's all , Oliver that's all . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! The latter part of this speech , was hailed by a boisterous shout from all the hopeful pupils of the merry old gentleman . 
In the midst of which they went to supper . 
Oliver ate his share , and the Jew then mixed him a glass of hot gin and water telling him he must drink it off directly , because another gentleman wanted the tumbler . 
Oliver did as he was desired . 
Immediately afterwards he felt himself gently lifted on to one of the sacks and then he sunk into a deep sleep . 
CHAPTER IX CONTAINING FURTHER PARTICULARS CONCERNING THE PLEASANT OLD GENTLEMAN , AND HIS HOPEFUL PUPILS It was late next morning when Oliver awoke , from a sound , long sleep . 
Although Oliver had roused himself from sleep , he was not thoroughly awake . 
Oliver was precisely in this condition . 
When the coffee was done , the Jew drew the saucepan to the hob . 
He did not answer , and was to all appearances asleep . 
After satisfiying himself upon this head , the Jew stepped gently to the door which he fastened . 
He then drew forth as it seemed to Oliver , from some trap in the floor a small box , which he placed carefully on the table . 
His eyes glistened as he raised the lid , and looked in . 
Dragging an old chair to the table , he sat down and took from it a magnificent gold watch , sparkling with jewels . 
'Aha ! said the Jew , shrugging up his shoulders , and distorting every feature with a hideous grin . 
'Clever dogs ! Clever dogs ! Staunch to the last ! Never told the old parson where they were . 
Never poached upon old Fagin ! And why should they ? It wouldn't have loosened the knot , or kept the drop up , a minute longer . 
Having replaced these trinkets , the Jew took out another so small that it lay in the palm of his hand . 
He closed the lid of the box with a loud crash and , laying his hand on a bread knife which was on the table , started furiously up . 
He trembled very much though for , even in his terror , Oliver could see that the knife quivered in the air . 
'What's that ? said the Jew . 
'What do you watch me for ? Why are you awake ? What have you seen ? Speak out , boy ! Quick quick ! for your life . 
'I wasn't able to sleep any longer , sir , replied Oliver , meekly . 
'I am very sorry if I have disturbed you , sir . 
'You were not awake an hour ago ? said the Jew , scowling fiercely on the boy . 
'No ! No , indeed ! replied Oliver . 
'Are you sure ? cried the Jew with a still fiercer look than before and a threatening attitude . 
'Upon my word I was not , sir , replied Oliver , earnestly . 
'I was not , indeed , sir . 
'Of course I know that , my dear . 
I only tried to frighten you . 
Ha ! ha ! you're a brave boy , Oliver . 
The Jew rubbed his hands with a chuckle , but glanced uneasily at the box , notwithstanding . 
'Did you see any of these pretty things , my dear ? said the Jew , laying his hand upon it after a short pause . 
'Yes , sir , replied Oliver . 
'Ah ! said the Jew , turning rather pale . 
'They they're mine , Oliver my little property . 
All I have to live upon , in my old age . 
The folks call me a miser , my dear . 
Only a miser that's all . 
'Certainly , my dear , certainly , replied the old gentleman . 
There's a pitcher of water in the corner by the door . 
Bring it here and I'll give you a basin to wash in , my dear . 
Oliver got up walked across the room and stooped for an instant to raise the pitcher . 
When he turned his head , the box was gone . 
The four sat down , to breakfast , on the coffee , and some hot rolls and ham which the Dodger had brought home in the crown of his hat . 
'As nails , added Charley Bates . 
'Good boys , good boys ! said the Jew . 
'What have you got , Dodger ? 'A couple of pocket books , replied that young gentlman . 
'Lined ? inquired the Jew , with eagerness . 
'Pretty well , replied the Dodger , producing two pocket books one green , and the other red . 
'Not so heavy as they might be , said the Jew , after looking at the insides carefully 'but very neat and nicely made . 
Ingenious workman , ain't he , Oliver ? 'Very indeed , sir , said Oliver . 
At which Mr. Charles Bates laughed uproariously very much to the amazement of Oliver , who saw nothing to laugh at , in anything that had passed . 
'And what have you got , my dear ? said Fagin to Charley Bates . 
'Wipes , replied Master Bates at the same time producing four pocket handkerchiefs . 
'Well , said the Jew , inspecting them closely 'they're very good ones , very . 
You haven't marked them well , though , Charley so the marks shall be picked out with a needle , and we'll teach Oliver how to do it . 
Shall us , Oliver , eh ? Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'If you please , sir , said Oliver . 
'You'd like to be able to make pocket handkerchiefs as easy as Charley Bates , wouldn't you , my dear ? said the Jew . 
'Very much , indeed , if you'll teach me , sir , replied Oliver . 
'He is so jolly green ! said Charley when he recovered , as an apology to the company for his unpolite behaviour . 
When the breakfast was cleared away the merry old gentlman and the two boys played at a very curious and uncommon game , which was performed in this way . 
Sometimes he stopped at the fire place , and sometimes at the door , making believe that he was staring with all his might into shop windows . 
If the old gentlman felt a hand in any one of his pockets , he cried out where it was and then the game began all over again . 
When this game had been played a great many times , a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman one of whom was named Bet , and the other Nancy . 
They wore a good deal of hair , not very neatly turned up behind , and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings . 
They were not exactly pretty , perhaps but they had a great deal of colour in their faces , and looked quite stout and hearty . 
Being remarkably free and agreeable in their manners , Oliver thought them very nice girls indeed . 
As there is no doubt they were . 
The visitors stopped a long time . 
Spirits were produced , in consequence of one of the young ladies complaining of a coldness in her inside and the conversation took a very convivial and improving turn . 
At length , Charley Bates expressed his opinion that it was time to pad the hoof . 
'There , my dear , said Fagin . 
'That's a pleasant life , isn't it ? They have gone out for the day . 
'Have they done work , sir ? inquired Oliver . 
Make 'em your models , my dear . 
He'll be a great man himself , and will make you one too , if you take pattern by him . 
Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket , my dear ? said the Jew , stopping short . 
'Yes , sir , said Oliver . 
'See if you can take it out , without my feeling it as you saw them do , when we were at play this morning . 
Oliver held up the bottom of the pocket with one hand , as he had seen the Dodger hold it , and drew the handkerchief lighty out of it with the other . 
'Is it gone ? cried the Jew . 
'Here it is , sir , said Oliver , showing it in his hand . 
'You're a clever boy , my dear , said the playful old gentleman , patting Oliver on the head approvingly . 
'I never saw a sharper lad . 
Here's a shilling for you . 
If you go on , in this way , you'll be the greatest man of the time . 
And now come here , and I'll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs . 
Oliver wondered what picking the old gentleman's pocket in play , had to do with his chances of being a great man . 
CHAPTER X OLIVER BECOMES BETTER ACQUAINTED WITH THE CHARACTERS OF HIS NEW ASSOCIATES AND PURCHASES EXPERIENCE AT A HIGH PRICE . 
and sometimes taking part in the game already described which the two boys and the Jew played , regularly , every morning . 
At length , he began to languish for fresh air , and took many occasions of earnestly entreating the old gentleman to allow him to go out to work with his two companions . 
Oliver was rendered the more anxious to be actively employed , by what he had seen of the stern morality of the old gentleman's character . 
On one occasion , indeed , he even went so far as to knock them both down a flight of stairs but this was carrying out his virtuous precepts to an unusual extent . 
At length , one morning , Oliver obtained the permission he had so eagerly sought . 
There had been no handkerchiefs to work upon , for two or three days , and the dinners had been rather meagre . 
'What's the matter ? demanded Oliver . 
'Hush ! replied the Dodger . 
'Do you see that old cove at the book stall ? 'The old gentleman over the way ? said Oliver . 
'Yes , I see him . 
'He'll do , said the Doger . 
'A prime plant , observed Master Charley Bates . 
Oliver walked a few paces after them and , not knowing whether to advance or retire , stood looking on in silent amazement . 
The old gentleman was a very respectable looking personage , with a powdered head and gold spectacles . 
He was dressed in a bottle green coat with a black velvet collar wore white trousers and carried a smart bamboo cane under his arm . 
He had taken up a book from the stall , and there he stood , reading away , as hard as if he were in his elbow chair , in his own study . 
This was all done in a minute's space . 
In the very instant when Oliver began to run , the old gentleman , putting his hand to his pocket , and missing his handkerchief , turned sharp round . 
But the old gentleman was not the only person who raised the hue and cry . 
The Dodger and Master Bates , unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street , had merely retured into the very first doorway round the corner . 
Although Oliver had been brought up by philosophers , he was not theoretically acquainted with the beautiful axiom that self preservation is the first law of nature . 
If he had been , perhaps he would have been prepared for this . 
Not being prepared , however , it alarmed him the more so away he went like the wind , with the old gentleman and the two boys roaring and shouting behind him . 
'Stop thief ! Stop thief ! There is a magic in the sound . 
'Stop thief ! Stop thief ! The cry is taken up by a hundred voices , and the crowd accumulate at every turning . 
'Stop thief ! Ay , stop him for God's sake , were it only in mercy ! Stopped at last ! A clever blow . 
He is down upon the pavement and the crowd eagerly gather round him each new comer , jostling and struggling with the others to catch a glimpse . 
'Stand aside ! 'Give him a little air ! 'Nonsense ! he don't deserve it . 
'Where's the gentleman ? 'Here his is , coming down the street . 
'Make room there for the gentleman ! 'Is this the boy , sir ! 'Yes . 
'Yes , said the gentleman , 'I am afraid it is the boy . 
'Afraid ! murmured the crowd . 
'That's a good 'un ! 'Poor fellow ! said the gentleman , 'he has hurt himself . 
I did that , sir , said a great lubberly fellow , stepping forward 'and preciously I cut my knuckle agin' his mouth . 
I stopped him , sir . 
at that moment made his way through the crowd , and seized Oliver by the collar . 
'Come , get up , said the man , roughly . 
'It wasn't me indeed , sir . 
Indeed , indeed , it was two other boys , said Oliver , clasping his hands passionately , and looking round . 
'Oh no , they ain't , said the officer . 
He meant this to be ironical , but it was true besides for the Dodger and Charley Bates had filed off down the first convenient court they came to . 
'Come , get up ! 'Don't hurt him , said the old gentleman , compassionately . 
'Oh no , I won't hurt him , replied the officer , tearing his jacket half off his back , in proof thereof . 
'Come , I know you it won't do . 
The boys shouted in triumph and on they went . 
CHAPTER XI TREATS OF MR . 
'What's the matter now ? said the man carelessly . 
'A young fogle hunter , replied the man who had Oliver in charge . 
'Are you the party that's been robbed , sir ? inquired the man with the keys . 
'Yes , I am , replied the old gentleman 'but I am not sure that this boy actually took the handkerchief . 
I I would rather not press the case . 
'Must go before the magistrate now , sir , replied the man . 
'His worship will be disengaged in half a minute . 
Now , young gallows ! This was an invitation for Oliver to enter through a door which he unlocked as he spoke , and which led into a stone cell . 
Here he was searched and nothing being found upon him , locked up . 
This cell was in shape and size something like an area cellar , only not so light . 
It was most intolably dirty for it was Monday morning and it had been tenanted by six drunken people , who had been locked up , elsewhere , since Saturday night . 
Let any one who doubts this , compare the two . 
The old gentleman looked almost as rueful as Oliver when the key grated in the lock . 
He turned with a sigh to the book , which had been the innocent cause of all this disturbance . 
'No , said the old gentleman , shaking his head 'it must be imagination . 
He wandered over them again . 
He had called them into view , and it was not easy to replace the shroud that had so long concealed them . 
But the old gentleman could recall no one countenance of which Oliver's features bore a trace . 
So , he heaved a sigh over the recollections he awakened and being , happily for himself , an absent old gentleman , buried them again in the pages of the musty book . 
He was roused by a touch on the shoulder , and a request from the man with the keys to follow him into the office . 
He closed his book hastily and was at once ushered into the imposing presence of the renowned Mr. Fang . 
The office was a front parlour , with a panelled wall . 
His face was stern , and much flushed . 
The old gentleman bowed respectfully and advancing to the magistrate's desk , said suiting the action to the word , 'That is my name and address , sir . 
He then withdrew a pace or two and , with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of the head , waited to be questioned . 
He was out of temper and he looked up with an angry scowl . 
'Who are you ? said Mr. Fang . 
The old gentleman pointed , with some surprise , to his card . 
'Officer ! said Mr. Fang , tossing the card contemptuously away with the newspaper . 
'Who is this fellow ? 'My name , sir , said the old gentleman , speaking LIKE a gentleman , 'my name , sir , is Brownlow . 
Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person , under the protection of the bench . 
Saying this , Mr. Brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford him the required information . 
'Officer ! said Mr. Fang , throwing the paper on one side , 'what's this fellow charged with ? 'He's not charged at all , your worship , replied the officer . 
'He appears against this boy , your worship . 
His worshp knew this perfectly well but it was a good annoyance , and a safe one . 
'Appears against the boy , does he ? said Mr. Fang , surveying Mr. Brownlow contemptuously from head to foot . 
'I will not , sir ! replied the old gentleman . 
'Hold your tongue this instant , or I'll have you turned out of the office ! said Mr. Fang . 
'You're an insolent impertinent fellow . 
How dare you bully a magistrate ! 'What ! exclaimed the old gentleman , reddening . 
'Swear this person ! said Fang to the clerk . 
'I'll not hear another word . 
'Now , said Fang , 'what's the charge against this boy ? What have you got to say , sir ? 'I was standing at a bookstall Mr. Brownlow began . 
'Hold your tongue , sir , said Mr. Fang . 
'Policeman ! Where's the policeman ? Here , swear this policeman . 
'Are there any witnesses ? inquired Mr. Fang . 
'None , your worship , replied the policeman . 
Mr. Fang sat silent for some minutes , and then , turning round to the prosecutor , said in a towering passion . 
'Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is , man , or do you not ? You have been sworn . 
'He has been hurt already , said the old gentleman in conclusion . 
'And I fear , he added , with great energy , looking towards the bar , 'I really fear that he is ill . 
'Oh ! yes , I dare say ! said Mr. Fang , with a sneer . 
'Come , none of your tricks here , you young vagabond they won't do . 
What's your name ? Oliver tried to reply but his tongue failed him . 
He was deadly pale and the whole place seemed turning round and round . 
'What's your name , you hardened scoundrel ? demanded Mr. Fang . 
'Officer , what's his name ? This was addressed to a bluff old fellow , in a striped waistcoat , who was standing by the bar . 
'He says his name's Tom White , your worship , said the kind hearted thief taker . 
'Oh , he won't speak out , won't he ? said Fang . 
'Very well , very well . 
Where does he live ? 'Where he can , your worship , replied the officer again pretending to receive Oliver's answer . 
'Has he any parents ? inquired Mr. Fang . 
'He says they died in his infancy , your worship , replied the officer hazarding the usual reply . 
At this point of the inquiry , Oliver raised his head and , looking round with imploring eyes , murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water . 
'Stuff and nonsense ! said Mr. Fang 'don't try to make a fool of me . 
'I think he really is ill , your worship , remonstrated the officer . 
'I know better , said Mr. Fang . 
'Take care of him , officer , said the old gentleman , raising his hands instinctively 'he'll fall down . 
'Stand away , officer , cried Fang 'let him , if he likes . 
Oliver availed himself of the kind permission , and fell to the floor in a fainting fit . 
The men in the office looked at each other , but no one dared to stir . 
'I knew he was shamming , said Fang , as if this were incontestable proof of the fact . 
'Let him lie there he'll soon be tired of that . 
'How do you propose to deal with the case , sir ? inquired the clerk in a low voice . 
'Summarily , replied Mr. Fang . 
'He stands committed for three months hard labour of course . 
'Stop , stop ! don't take him away ! For Heaven's sake stop a moment ! cried the new comer , breathless with haste . 
Mr. Fang was consequently not a little indignant to see an unbidden guest enter in such irreverent disorder . 
'What is this ? Who is this ? Turn this man out . 
Clear the office ! cried Mr. Fang . 
'I WILL speak , cried the man 'I will not be turned out . 
I keep the book stall . 
I demand to be sworn . 
I will not be put down . 
Mr. Fang , you must hear me . 
You must not refuse , sir . 
His manner was determined and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up . 
'Swear the man , growled Mr. Fang . 
with a very ill grace . 
The robbery was committed by another boy . 
I saw it done and I saw that this boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by it . 
Having by this time recovered a little breath , the worthy book stall keeper proceeded to relate , in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of the robbery . 
'Why didn't you come here before ? said Fang , after a pause . 
'I hadn't a soul to mind the shop , replied the man . 
'Everybody who could have helped me , had joined in the pursuit . 
I could get nobody till five minutes ago and I've run here all the way . 
'The prosecutor was reading , was he ? inquired Fang , after another pause . 
'Yes , replied the man . 
'The very book he has in his hand . 
'Oh , that book , eh ? said Fang . 
'Is it paid for ? 'No , it is not , replied the man , with a smile . 
'Dear me , I forgot all about it ! exclaimed the absent old gentleman , innocently . 
'A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor boy ! said Fang , with a comical effort to look humane . 
Let this be a lesson to you , my man , or the law will overtake you yet . 
He reached the yard and his passion vanished in a moment . 
'Poor boy , poor boy ! said Mr. Brownlow , bending over him . 
'Call a coach , somebody , pray . 
Directly ! A coach was obtained , and Oliver having been carefully laid on the seat , the old gentleman got in and sat himself on the other . 
'May I accompany you ? said the book stall keeper , looking in . 
'Bless me , yes , my dear sir , said Mr. Brownlow quickly . 
Dear , dear ! I have this unhappy book still ! Jump in . 
Poor fellow ! There's no time to lose . 
The book stall keeper got into the coach and away they drove . 
CHAPTER XII IN WHICH OLIVER IS TAKEN BETTER CARE OF THAN HE EVER WAS BEFORE . 
AND IN WHICH THE NARRATIVE REVERTS TO THE MERRY OLD GENTLEMAN AND HIS YOUTHFUL FRIENDS . 
But , for many days , Oliver remained insensible to all the goodness of his new friends . 
The worm does not work more surely on the dead body , than does this slow creeping fire upon the living frame . 
Weak , and thin , and pallid , he awoke at last from what seemed to have been a long and troubled dream . 
Feebly raising himself in the bed , with his head resting on his trembling arm , he looked anxiously around . 
'What room is this ? Where have I been brought to ? said Oliver . 
'This is not the place I went to sleep in . 
He uttered these words in a feeble voice , being very faint and weak but they were overheard at once . 
'Hush , my dear , said the old lady softly . 
'You must be very quiet , or you will be ill again and you have been very bad , as bad as bad could be , pretty nigh . 
'Save us ! said the old lady , with tears in her eyes . 
'What a grateful little dear it is . 
I almost feel as if she had . 
'That was the fever , my dear , said the old lady mildly . 
'I suppose it was , replied Oliver , 'because heaven is a long way off and they are too happy there , to come down to the bedside of a poor boy . 
But if she knew I was ill , she must have pitied me , even there for she was very ill herself before she died . 
She can't know anything about me though , added Oliver after a moment's silence . 
'If she had seen me hurt , it would have made here sorrowful and her face has always looked sweet and happy , when I have dreamed of her . 
'You ARE a great deal better , are you not , my dear ? said the gentleman . 
'Yes , thank you , sir , replied Oliver . 
'Yes , I know you are , said the gentleman 'You're hungry too , an't you ? 'No , sir , answered Oliver . 
'Hem ! said the gentleman . 
'No , I know you're not . 
He is not hungry , Mrs. Bedwin , said the gentleman looking very wise . 
The old lady made a respectful inclination of the head , which seemed to say that she thought the doctor was a very clever man . 
The doctor appeared much of the same opinion himself . 
'You feel sleepy , don't you , my dear ? said the doctor . 
'No , sir , replied Oliver . 
'No , said the doctor , with a very shrewd and satisfied look . 
Are you ? 'Yes , sir , rather thirsty , answered Oliver . 
'Just as I expected , Mrs. Bedwin , said the doctor . 
'It's very natural that he should be thirsty . 
You may give him a little tea , ma'am , and some dry toast without any butter . 
Don't keep him too warm , ma'am but be careful that you don't let him be too cold will you have the goodness ? The old lady dropped a curtsey . 
The doctor , after tasting the cool stuff , and expressing a qualified approval of it , hurried away his boots creaking in a very important and wealthy manner as he went downstairs . 
Oliver dozed off again , soon after this when he awoke , it was nearly twelve o'clock . 
These , however , had no worse effect than causing her to rub her nose very hard , and then fall asleep again . 
And thus the night crept slowly on . 
Gradually , he fell into that deep tranquil sleep which ease from recent suffering alone imparts that calm and peaceful rest which it is pain to wake from . 
The crisis of the disease was safely past . 
He belonged to the world again . 
'Never mind me , my dear , said the old lady 'I'm only having a regular good cry . 
There it's all over now and I'm quite comfortable . 
'You're very , very kind to me , ma'am , said Oliver . 
'I don't quite know , ma'am , said Oliver , without taking his eyes from the canvas 'I have seen so few that I hardly know . 
The man that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed it's a deal too honest . 
A deal , said the old lady , laughing very heartily at her own acuteness . 
'Is is that a likeness , ma'am ? said Oliver . 
'Yes , said the old lady , looking up for a moment from the broth 'that's a portrait . 
'Whose , ma'am ? asked Oliver . 
'Why , really , my dear , I don't know , answered the old lady in a good humoured manner . 
'It's not a likeness of anybody that you or I know , I expect . 
It seems to strike your fancy , dear . 
'It is so pretty , replied Oliver . 
'Why , sure you're not afraid of it ? said the old lady observing in great surprise , the look of awe with which the child regarded the painting . 
'Oh no , no , returned Oliver quickly 'but the eyes look so sorrowful and where I sit , they seem fixed upon me . 
It makes my heart beat , added Oliver in a low voice , 'as if it was alive , and wanted to speak to me , but couldn't . 
'Lord save us ! exclaimed the old lady , starting 'don't talk in that way , child . 
You're weak and nervous after your illness . 
Let me wheel your chair round to the other side and then you won't see it . 
There ! said the old lady , suiting the action to the word 'you don't see it now , at all events . 
Oliver got through it with extraordinary expedition . 
He had scarcely swallowed the last spoonful , when there came a soft rap at the door . 
'Come in , said the old lady and in walked Mr. Brownlow . 
'Poor boy , poor boy ! said Mr. Brownlow , clearing his throat . 
'I'm rather hoarse this morning , Mrs. Bedwin . 
I'm afraid I have caught cold . 
'I hope not , sir , said Mrs. Bedwin . 
'Everything you have had , has been well aired , sir . 
'I don't know , Bedwin . 
I don't know , said Mr. Brownlow 'I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner time yesterday but never mind that . 
How do you feel , my dear ? 'Very happy , sir , replied Oliver . 
'And very grateful indeed , sir , for your goodness to me . 
'Good by , said Mr. Brownlow , stoutly . 
'Ugh ! said Mr. Brownlow , with a slight shudder 'a couple of glasses of port wine would have done him a great deal more good . 
Wouldn't they , Tom White , eh ? 'My name is Oliver , sir , replied the little invalid with a look of great astonishment . 
'Oliver , said Mr. Brownlow 'Oliver what ? Oliver White , eh ? 'No , sir , Twist , Oliver Twist . 
'Queer name ! said the old gentleman . 
'What made you tell the magistrate your name was White ? 'I never told him so , sir , returned Oliver in amazement . 
This sounded so like a falsehood , that the old gentleman looked somewhat sternly in Oliver's face . 
It was impossible to doubt him there was truth in every one of its thin and sharpened lineaments . 
'Some mistake , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'I hope you are not angry with me , sir ? said Oliver , raising his eyes beseechingly . 
'No , no , replied the old gentleman . 
'Why ! what's this ? Bedwin , look there ! As he spoke , he pointed hastily to the picture over Oliver's head , and then to the boy's face . 
There was its living copy . 
The eyes , the head , the mouth every feature was the same . 
For , these are matters totally beneath a female who is acknowledged by universal admission to be far above the numerous little foibles and weaknesses of her sex . 
, of their quitting the pursuit , when the general attention was fixed upon Oliver and making immediately for their home by the shortest possible cut . 
'What's the matter ? inquired the Dodger . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! roared Charley Bates . 
'Hold your noise , remonstrated the Dodger , looking cautiously round . 
As he arrived at this apostrophe , he again rolled upon the door step , and laughed louder than before . 
'What'll Fagin say ? inquired the Dodger taking advantage of the next interval of breathlessness on the part of his friend to propound the question . 
'What ? repeated Charley Bates . 
'Ah , what ? said the Dodger . 
'Why , what should he say ? inquired Charley stopping rather suddenly in his merriment for the Dodger's manner was impressive . 
'What should he say ? Mr. Dawkins whistled for a couple of minutes then , taking off his hat , scratched his head , and nodded thrice . 
'What do you mean ? said Charley . 
'Toor rul lol loo , gammon and spinnage , the frog he wouldn't , and high cockolorum , said the Dodger with a slight sneer on his intellectual countenance . 
This was explanatory , but not satisfactory . 
Master Bates followed , with a thoughtful countenance . 
'Why , how's this ? muttered the Jew changing countenance 'only two of 'em ? Where's the third ? They can't have got into trouble . 
Hark ! The footsteps approached nearer they reached the landing . 
The door was slowly opened and the Dodger and Charley Bates entered , closing it behind them . 
'Where's the boy ? The young thieves eyed their preceptor as if they were alarmed at his violence and looked uneasily at each other . 
But they made no reply . 
'What's become of the boy ? said the Jew , seizing the Dodger tightly by the collar , and threatening him with horrid imprecations . 
'Will you speak ? thundered the Jew shaking the Dodger so much that his keeping in the big coat at all , seemed perfectly miraculous . 
'Why , the traps have got him , and that's all about it , said the Dodger , sullenly . 
But Charley Bates , at this moment , calling his attention by a perfectly terrific howl , he suddenly altered its destination , and flung it full at that young gentleman . 
'Why , what the blazes is in the wind now ! growled a deep voice . 
'Who pitched that 'ere at me ? It's well it's the beer , and not the pot , as hit me , or I'd have settled somebody . 
'Come in , d'ye hear ? growled this engaging ruffian . 
A white shaggy dog , with his face scratched and torn in twenty different places , skulked into the room . 
'Why didn't you come in afore ? said the man . 
'What are you up to ? Ill treating the boys , you covetous , avaricious , in sa ti a ble old fence ? said the man , seating himself deliberately . 
'I wonder they don't murder you ! I would if I was them . 
'Hush ! hush ! Mr. Sikes , said the Jew , trembling 'don't speak so loud ! 'None of your mistering , replied the ruffian 'you always mean mischief when you come that . 
You know my name out with it ! I shan't disgrace it when the time comes . 
'Well , well , then Bill Sikes , said the Jew , with abject humility . 
'You seem out of humour , Bill . 
He then , in cant terms , with which his whole conversation was plentifully besprinkled , but which would be quite unintelligible if they were recorded here , demanded a glass of liquor . 
'And mind you don't poison it , said Mr. Sikes , laying his hat upon the table . 
to improve upon the distiller's ingenuity not very far from the old gentleman's merry heart . 
'I'm afraid , said the Jew , 'that he may say something which will get us into trouble . 
'That's very likely , returned Sikes with a malicious grin . 
'You're blowed upon , Fagin . 
The man started , and turned round upon the Jew . 
But the old gentleman's shoulders were shrugged up to his ears and his eyes were vacantly staring on the opposite wall . 
There was a long pause . 
'Somebody must find out wot's been done at the office , said Mr. Sikes in a much lower tone than he had taken since he came in . 
'If he hasn't peached , and is committed , there's no fear till he comes out again , said Mr. Sikes , 'and then he must be taken care on . 
You must get hold of him somehow . 
The prudence of this line of action , indeed , was obvious but , unfortunately , there was one very strong objection to its being adopted . 
How long they might have sat and looked at each other , in a state of uncertainty not the most pleasant of its kind , it is difficult to guess . 
'The very thing ! said the Jew . 
'Bet will go won't you , my dear ? 'Wheres ? inquired the young lady . 
'Only just up to the office , my dear , said the Jew coaxingly . 
'What do you mean by that ? said Mr. Sikes , looking up in a surly manner . 
'What I say , Bill , replied the lady collectedly . 
'Why , you're just the very person for it , reasoned Mr. Sikes 'nobody about here knows anything of you . 
'And as I don't want 'em to , neither , replied Nancy in the same composed manner , 'it's rather more no than yes with me , Bill . 
'She'll go , Fagin , said Sikes . 
'No , she won't , Fagin , said Nancy . 
'Yes , she will , Fagin , said Sikes . 
And Mr. Sikes was right . 
By dint of alternate threats , promises , and bribes , the lady in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission . 
'Stop a minute , my dear , said the Jew , producing , a little covered basket . 
'Carry that in one hand . 
It looks more respectable , my dear . 
'Give her a door key to carry in her t'other one , Fagin , said Sikes 'it looks real and genivine like . 
'Yes , yes , my dear , so it does , said the Jew , hanging a large street door key on the forefinger of the young lady's right hand . 
'There very good ! Very good indeed , my dear ! said the Jew , rubbing his hands . 
'She's a honour to her sex , said Mr. Sikes , filling his glass , and smiting the table with his enormous fist . 
Entering by the back way , she tapped softly with the key at one of the cell doors , and listened . 
There was no sound within so she coughed and listened again . 
Still there was no reply so she spoke . 
'Well ! cried a faint and feeble voice . 
'Is there a little boy here ? inquired Nancy , with a preliminary sob . 
'No , replied the voice 'God forbid . 
'I haven't got him , my dear , said the old man . 
'Where is he ? screamed Nancy , in a distracted manner . 
'Why , the gentleman's got him , replied the officer . 
'What gentleman ! Oh , gracious heavens ! What gentleman ? exclaimed Nancy . 
'We must know where he is , my dears he must be found , said the Jew greatly excited . 
'Charley , do nothing but skulk about , till you bring home some news of him ! Nancy , my dear , I must have him found . 
I shall shut up this shop to night . 
You'll know where to find me ! Don't stop here a minute . 
Then , he hastily proceeded to dispose the watches and jewellery beneath his clothing . 
A rap at the door startled him in this occupation . 
'Who's there ? he cried in a shrill tone . 
'Me ! replied the voice of the Dodger , through the key hole . 
'What now ? cried the Jew impatiently . 
'Is he to be kidnapped to the other ken , Nancy says ? inquired the Dodger . 
'Yes , replied the Jew , 'wherever she lays hands on him . 
Find him , find him out , that's all . 
I shall know what to do next never fear . 
The boy murmured a reply of intelligence and hurried downstairs after his companions . 
'He has not peached so far , said the Jew as he pursued his occupation . 
'If he means to blab us among his new friends , we may stop his mouth yet . 
CHAPTER XIV COMPRISING FURTHER PARTICULARS OF OLIVER'S STAY AT MR . 
BROWNLOW'S , WITH THE REMARKABLE PREDICTION WHICH ONE MR . 
His expectations were disappointed , however , for the picture had been removed . 
'Ah ! said the housekeeper , watching the direction of Oliver's eyes . 
'It is gone , you see . 
'I see it is ma'am , replied Oliver . 
'Oh , no , indeed . 
It didn't worry me , ma'am , said Oliver . 
'I liked to see it . 
'Well , well ! said the old lady , good humouredly 'you get well as fast as ever you can , dear , and it shall be hung up again . 
There ! I promise you that ! Now , let us talk about something else . 
This was all the information Oliver could obtain about the picture at that time . 
They were happy days , those of Oliver's recovery . 
They were sad rags , to tell the truth and Oliver had never had a new suit before . 
'Bless us , and save us ! Wash your hands , and let me part your hair nicely for you , child , said Mrs. Bedwin . 
Thus encouraged , Oliver tapped at the study door . 
There was a table drawn up before the window , at which Mr. Brownlow was seated reading . 
When he saw Oliver , he pushed the book away from him , and told him to come near the table , and sit down . 
Oliver complied marvelling where the people could be found to read such a great number of books as seemed to be written to make the world wiser . 
Which is still a marvel to more experienced people than Oliver Twist , every day of their lives . 
'A great number , sir , replied Oliver . 
'I never saw so many . 
'I suppose they are those heavy ones , sir , said Oliver , pointing to some large quartos , with a good deal of gilding about the binding . 
How should you like to grow up a clever man , and write books , eh ? 'I think I would rather read them , sir , replied Oliver . 
'What ! wouldn't you like to be a book writer ? said the old gentleman . 
Which Oliver felt glad to have done , though he by no means knew what it was . 
'Well , well , said the old gentleman , composing his features . 
'Don't be afraid ! We won't make an author of you , while there's an honest trade to be learnt , or brick making to turn to . 
'Thank you , sir , said Oliver . 
At the earnest manner of his reply , the old gentleman laughed again and said something about a curious instinct , which Oliver , not understanding , paid no very great attention to . 
I shall talk to you without any reserve because I am sure you are well able to understand me , as many older persons would be . 
Let me stay here , and be a servant . 
Don't send me back to the wretched place I came from . 
'I never , never will , sir , interposed Oliver . 
'I hope not , rejoined the old gentleman . 
'I do not think you ever will . 
Deep affliction has but strengthened and refined them . 
As the old gentleman said this in a low voice more to himself than to his companion and as he remained silent for a short time afterwards Oliver sat quite still . 
You say you are an orphan , without a friend in the world all the inquiries I have been able to make , confirm the statement . 
Let me hear your story where you come from who brought you up and how you got into the company in which I found you . 
Speak the truth , and you shall not be friendless while I live . 
'Is he coming up ? inquired Mr. Brownlow . 
'Yes , sir , replied the servant . 
'He asked if there were any muffins in the house and , when I told him yes , he said he had come to tea . 
'Shall I go downstairs , sir ? inquired Oliver . 
'No , replied Mr. Brownlow , 'I would rather you remained here . 
A very small plaited shirt frill stuck out from his waistcoat and a very long steel watch chain , with nothing but a key at the end , dangled loosely below it . 
The ends of his white neckerchief were twisted into a ball about the size of an orange the variety of shapes into which his countenance was twisted , defy description . 
'I'll eat my head , sir , repeated Mr. Grimwig , striking his stick upon the ground . 
'Hallo ! what's that ! looking at Oliver , and retreating a pace or two . 
'This is young Oliver Twist , whom we were speaking about , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'You don't mean to say that's the boy who had the fever , I hope ? said Mr. Grimwig , recoiling a little more . 
'No , no , he has not had one , said Mr. Brownlow , laughing . 
'Come ! Put down your hat and speak to my young friend . 
'I feel strongly on this subject , sir , said the irritable old gentleman , drawing off his gloves . 
'There's always more or less orange peel on the pavement in our street and I KNOW it's put there by the surgeon's boy at the corner . 
A young woman stumbled over a bit last night , and fell against my garden railings directly she got up I saw her look towards his infernal red lamp with the pantomime light . 
Don't go to him , I called out of the window , he's an assassin ! A man trap ! So he is . 
'That's the boy , is it ? said Mr. Grimwig , at length . 
'That's the boy , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'How are you , boy ? said Mr. Grimwig . 
'A great deal better , thank you , sir , replied Oliver . 
'He is a nice looking boy , is he not ? inquired Mr. Brownlow . 
'I don't know , replied Mr. Grimwig , pettishly . 
I never see any difference in boys . 
I only knew two sort of boys . 
Mealy boys , and beef faced boys . 
'And which is Oliver ? 'Mealy . 
I know him ! The wretch ! 'Come , said Mr. Brownlow , 'these are not the characteristics of young Oliver Twist so he needn't excite your wrath . 
'They are not , replied Mr. Grimwig . 
Here , Mr. Brownlow coughed impatiently which appeared to afford Mr. Grimwig the most exquisite delight . 
'He may have worse , I say , repeated Mr. Grimwig . 
'Where does he come from ! Who is he ? What is he ? He has had a fever . 
He had had a fever six times he wasn't recommended to mercy on that account . 
'To morrow morning , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'I would rather he was alone with me at the time . 
Come up to me to morrow morning at ten o'clock , my dear . 
'Yes , sir , replied Oliver . 
He answered with some hesitation , because he was confused by Mr. Grimwig's looking so hard at him . 
'I'll tell you what , whispered that gentleman to Mr. Brownlow 'he won't come up to you to morrow morning . 
He is deceiving you , my good friend . 
'I'll swear he is not , replied Mr. Brownlow , warmly . 
'If he is not , said Mr. Grimwig , 'I'll and down went the stick . 
'I'll answer for that boy's truth with my life ! said Mr. Brownlow , knocking the table . 
'And I for his falsehood with my head ! rejoined Mr. Grimwig , knocking the table also . 
'We shall see , said Mr. Brownlow , checking his rising anger . 
'We will , replied Mr. Grimwig , with a provoking smile 'we will . 
'Stop the boy , Mrs. Bedwin ! said Mr. Brownlow 'there is something to go back . 
'He has gone , sir , replied Mrs. Bedwin . 
'Call after him , said Mr. Brownlow 'it's particular . 
He is a poor man , and they are not paid for . 
There are some books to be taken back , too . 
The street door was opened . 
Oliver ran one way and the girl ran another and Mrs. Bedwin stood on the step and screamed for the boy but there was no boy in sight . 
Oliver and the girl returned , in a breathless state , to report that there were no tidings of him . 
'Dear me , I am very sorry for that , exclaimed Mr. Brownlow 'I particularly wished those books to be returned to night . 
'Send Oliver with them , said Mr. Grimwig , with an ironical smile 'he will be sure to deliver them safely , you know . 
'Yes do let me take them , if you please , sir , said Oliver . 
'I'll run all the way , sir . 
'You SHALL go , my dear , said the old gentleman . 
'The books are on a chair by my table . 
This is a five pound note , so you will have to bring me back , ten shillings change . 
'I won't be ten minutes , sir , said Oliver , eagerly . 
Having buttoned up the bank note in his jacket pocket , and placed the books carefully under his arm , he made a respectful bow , and left the room . 
Having superadded many injunctions to be sure and not take cold , the old lady at length permitted him to depart . 
'Bless his sweet face ! said the old lady , looking after him . 
'I can't bear , somehow , to let him go out of my sight . 
At this moment , Oliver looked gaily round , and nodded before he turned the corner . 
The old lady smilingly returned his salutation , and , closing the door , went back , to her own room . 
'Let me see he'll be back in twenty minutes , at the longest , said Mr. Brownlow , pulling out his watch , and placing it on the table . 
'It will be dark by that time . 
'Oh ! you really expect him to come back , do you ? inquired Mr. Grimwig . 
'Don't you ? asked Mr. Brownlow , smiling . 
The spirit of contradiction was strong in Mr. Grimwig's breast , at the moment and it was rendered stronger by his friend's confident smile . 
'No , he said , smiting the table with his fist , 'I do not . 
The boy has a new suit of clothes on his back , a set of valuable books under his arm , and a five pound note in his pocket . 
He'll join his old friends the thieves , and laugh at you . 
If ever that boy returns to this house , sir , I'll eat my head . 
With these words he drew his chair closer to the table and there the two friends sat , in silent expectation , with the watch between them . 
It grew so dark , that the figures on the dial plate were scarcely discernible but there the two old gentlemen continued to sit , in silence , with the watch between them . 
'Keep quiet , you warmint ! Keep quiet ! said Mr. Sikes , suddenly breaking silence . 
Whatever was the cause , the effect was a kick and a curse , bestowed upon the dog simultaneously . 
Having given in a hearty shake , he retired , growling , under a form just escaping the pewter measure which Mr. Sikes levelled at his head . 
'You would , would you ? said Sikes , seizing the poker in one hand , and deliberately opening with the other a large clasp knife , which he drew from his pocket . 
This resistance only infuriated Mr. Sikes the more who , dropping on his knees , began to assail the animal most furiously . 
There must always be two parties to a quarrel , says the old adage . 
Mr. Sikes , being disappointed of the dog's participation , at once transferred his share in the quarrel to the new comer . 
'What the devil do you come in between me and my dog for ? said Sikes , with a fierce gesture . 
'I didn't know , my dear , I didn't know , replied Fagin , humbly for the Jew was the new comer . 
'Didn't know , you white livered thief ! growled Sikes . 
'Couldn't you hear the noise ? 'Not a sound of it , as I'm a living man , Bill , replied the Jew . 
'Oh no ! You hear nothing , you don't , retorted Sikes with a fierce sneer . 
'Sneaking in and out , so as nobody hears how you come or go ! I wish you had been the dog , Fagin , half a minute ago . 
'Why ? inquired the Jew with a forced smile . 
The Jew rubbed his hands and , sitting down at the table , affected to laugh at the pleasantry of his friend . 
He was obviously very ill at ease , however . 
'Grin away , said Sikes , replacing the poker , and surveying him with savage contempt 'grin away . 
You'll never have the laugh at me , though , unless it's behind a nightcap . 
I've got the upper hand over you , Fagin and , d me , I'll keep it . 
There ! If I go , you go so take care of me . 
'Well , well , my dear , said the Jew , 'I know all that we we have a mutual interest , Bill , a mutual interest . 
'Humph , said Sikes , as if he though the interest lay rather more on the Jew's side than on his . 
'Well , what have you got to say to me ? 'It's all passed safe through the melting pot , replied Fagin , 'and this is your share . 
'Where is it ? Hand over ! 'Yes , yes , Bill give me time , give me time , replied the Jew , soothingly . 
Sikes , snatching it from him , hastily opened it and proceeded to count the sovereigns it contained . 
'This is all , is it ? inquired Sikes . 
'All , replied the Jew . 
'You haven't opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along , have you ? inquired Sikes , suspiciously . 
'Don't put on an injured look at the question you've done it many a time . 
These words , in plain English , conveyed an injunction to ring the bell . 
It was answered by another Jew younger than Fagin , but nearly as vile and repulsive in appearance . 
Bill Sikes merely pointed to the empty measure . 
It was lost upon Sikes , who was stooping at the moment to tie the boot lace which the dog had torn . 
Possibly , if he had observed the brief interchange of signals , he might have thought that it boded no good to him . 
'Is anybody here , Barney ? inquired Fagin speaking , now that that Sikes was looking on , without raising his eyes from the ground . 
'Dot a shoul , replied Barney whose words whether they came from the heart or not made their way through the nose . 
'Nobody ? inquired Fagin , in a tone of surprise which perhaps might mean that Barney was at liberty to tell the truth . 
'Dobody but Biss Dadsy , replied Barney . 
'Where ? Strike me blind , if I don't honour that 'ere girl , for her native talents . 
'She's bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar , replied Barney . 
'Send her here , said Sikes , pouring out a glass of liquor . 
'You are on the scent , are you , Nancy ? inquired Sikes , proffering the glass . 
'Yes , I am , Bill , replied the young lady , disposing of its contents 'and tired enough of it I am , too . 
The young brat's been ill and confined to the crib and 'Ah , Nancy , dear ! said Fagin , looking up . 
In about ten minutes' time , Mr. Fagin was seized with a fit of coughing upon which Nancy pulled her shawl over her shoulders , and declared it was time to go . 
Meanwhile , Oliver Twist , little dreaming that he was within so very short a distance of the merry old gentleman , was on his way to the book stall . 
'Don't , cried Oliver , struggling . 
Oh , I've found him . 
To which , the butcher's boy who appeared of a lounging , not to say indolent disposition replied , that he thought not . 
'Oh , no , no , never mind , said the young woman , grasping Oliver's hand 'I'm better now . 
'Young wretch ! said one woman . 
'Go home , do , you little brute , said the other . 
'I am not , replied Oliver , greatly alarmed . 
I haven't any sister , or father and mother either . 
I'm an orphan I live at Pentonville . 
'Only hear him , how he braves it out ! cried the young woman . 
'Why , it's Nancy ! exclaimed Oliver who now saw her face for the first time and started back , in irrepressible astonishment . 
'You see he knows me ! cried Nancy , appealing to the bystanders . 
'I don't belong to them . 
Help ! help ! cried Oliver , struggling in the man's powerful grasp . 
'Help ! repeated the man . 
'Yes I'll help you , you young rascal ! What books are these ? You've been a stealing 'em , have you ? Give 'em here . 
With these words , the man tore the volumes from his grasp , and struck him on the head . 
'That's right ! cried a looker on , from a garret window . 
'That's the only way of bringing him to his senses ! 'To be sure ! cried a sleepy faced carpenter , casting an approving look at the garret window . 
'It'll do him good ! said the two women . 
'And he shall have it , too ! rejoined the man , administering another blow , and seizing Oliver by the collar . 
It was of little moment , indeed , whether they were intelligible or no for there was nobody to care for them , had they been ever so plain . 
Sikes slackened his pace when they reached this spot the girl being quite unable to support any longer , the rapid rate at which they had hitherto walked . 
Turning to Oliver , he roughly commanded him to take hold of Nancy's hand . 
'Do you hear ? growled Sikes , as Oliver hesitated , and looked round . 
They were in a dark corner , quite out of the track of passengers . 
Oliver saw , but too plainly , that resistance would be of no avail . 
He held out his hand , which Nancy clasped tight in hers . 
'Give me the other , said Sikes , seizing Oliver's unoccupied hand . 
'Here , Bull's Eye ! The dog looked up , and growled . 
'He's as willing as a Christian , strike me blind if he isn't ! said Sikes , regarding the animal with a kind of grim and ferocious approval . 
'Now , you know what you've got to expect , master , so call away as quick as you like the dog will soon stop that game . 
It was Smithfield that they were crossing , although it might have been Grosvenor Square , for anything Oliver knew to the contrary . 
The night was dark and foggy . 
They had hurried on a few paces , when a deep church bell struck the hour . 
With its first stroke , his two conductors stopped , and turned their heads in the direction whence the sound proceeded . 
'Eight o' clock , Bill , said Nancy , when the bell ceased . 
'What's the good of telling me that I can hear it , can't I ! replied Sikes . 
'I wonder whether THEY can hear it , said Nancy . 
'Of course they can , replied Sikes . 
'It was Bartlemy time when I was shopped and there warn't a penny trumpet in the fair , as I couldn't hear the squeaking on . 
'Poor fellow ! said Nancy , who still had her face turned towards the quarter in which the bell had sounded . 
'Oh , Bill , such fine young chaps as them ! 'Yes that's all you women think of , answered Sikes . 
'Fine young chaps ! Well , they're as good as dead , so it don't much matter . 
With this consolation , Mr. Sikes appeared to repress a rising tendency to jealousy , and , clasping Oliver's wrist more firmly , told him to step out again . 
'Wait a minute ! said the girl 'I wouldn't hurry by , if it was you that was coming out to be hung , the next time eight o'clock struck , Bill . 
I'd walk round and round the place till I dropped , if the snow was on the ground , and I hadn't a shawl to cover me . 
'And what good would that do ? inquired the unsentimental Mr. Sikes . 
Come on , and don't stand preaching there . 
The girl burst into a laugh drew her shawl more closely round her and they walked away . 
But Oliver felt her hand tremble , and , looking up in her face as they passed a gas lamp , saw that it had turned a deadly white . 
'All right , cried Sikes , glancing cautiously about . 
Nancy stooped below the shutters , and Oliver heard the sound of a bell . 
They crossed to the opposite side of the street , and stood for a few moments under a lamp . 
A noise , as if a sash window were gently raised , was heard and soon afterwards the door softly opened . 
Mr. Sikes then seized the terrified boy by the collar with very little ceremony and all three were quickly inside the house . 
The passage was perfectly dark . 
They waited , while the person who had let them in , chained and barred the door . 
'Anybody here ? inquired Sikes . 
'No , replied a voice , which Oliver thought he had heard before . 
'Is the old 'un here ? asked the robber . 
'Yes , replied the voice , 'and precious down in the mouth he has been . 
'Let's have a glim , said Sikes , 'or we shall go breaking our necks , or treading on the dog . 
Look after your legs if you do ! 'Stand still a moment , and I'll get you one , replied the voice . 
The receding footsteps of the speaker were heard and , in another minute , the form of Mr. John Dawkins , otherwise the Artful Dodger , appeared . 
He bore in his right hand a tallow candle stuck in the end of a cleft stick . 
Hold me , somebody , while I laugh it out . 
With this irrepressible ebullition of mirth , Master Bates laid himself flat on the floor and kicked convulsively for five minutes , in an ectasy of facetious joy . 
The Artful , meantime , who was of a rather saturnine disposition , and seldom gave way to merriment when it interfered with business , rifled Oliver's pockets with steady assiduity . 
'Look at his togs , Fagin ! said Charley , putting the light so close to his new jacket as nearly to set him on fire . 
'The Artful shall give you another suit , my dear , for fear you should spoil that Sunday one . 
Why didn't you write , my dear , and say you were coming ? We'd have got something warm for supper . 
'Hallo , what's that ? inquired Sikes , stepping forward as the Jew seized the note . 
'No , no , my dear , said the Jew . 
'Mine , Bill , mine . 
You shall have the books . 
'If that ain't mine ! said Bill Sikes , putting on his hat with a determined air 'mine and Nancy's that is I'll take the boy back again . 
Oliver started too , though from a very different cause for he hoped that the dispute might really end in his being taken back . 
'Come ! Hand over , will you ? said Sikes . 
'This is hardly fair , Bill hardly fair , is it , Nancy ? inquired the Jew . 
'That's for our share of the trouble , said Sikes 'and not half enough , neither . 
You may keep the books , if you're fond of reading . 
If you ain't , sell 'em . 
Oh , pray send them back send him back the books and money . 
Keep me here all my life long but pray , pray send them back . 
He'll think I stole them the old lady all of them who were so kind to me will think I stole them . 
'The boy's right , remarked Fagin , looking covertly round , and knitting his shaggy eyebrows into a hard knot . 
'You're right , Oliver , you're right they WILL think you have stolen 'em . 
'Keep back the dog , Bill ! cried Nancy , springing before the door , and closing it , as the Jew and his two pupils darted out in pursuit . 
'Keep back the dog he'll tear the boy to pieces . 
'Serve him right ! cried Sikes , struggling to disengage himself from the girl's grasp . 
'Stand off from me , or I'll split your head against the wall . 
'Shan't he ! said Sikes , setting his teeth . 
'I'll soon do that , if you don't keep off . 
The housebreaker flung the girl from him to the further end of the room , just as the Jew and the two boys returned , dragging Oliver among them . 
'What's the matter here ! said Fagin , looking round . 
'The girl's gone mad , I think , replied Sikes , savagely . 
'No , she hasn't , said Nancy , pale and breathless from the scuffle 'no , she hasn't , Fagin don't think it . 
'Then keep quiet , will you ? said the Jew , with a threatening look . 
'No , I won't do that , neither , replied Nancy , speaking very loud . 
With the view of diverting the attention of the company , he turned to Oliver . 
But he watched the Jew's motions , and breathed quickly . 
'Wanted to get assistance called for the police did you ? sneered the Jew , catching the boy by the arm . 
'We'll cure you of that , my young master . 
The Jew inflicted a smart blow on Oliver's shoulders with the club and was raising it for a second , when the girl , rushing forward , wrested it from his hand . 
She flung it into the fire , with a force that brought some of the glowing coals whirling out into the room . 
'I won't stand by and see it done , Fagin , cried the girl . 
Ha ! ha ! my dear , you are acting beautifully . 
'Am I ! said the girl . 
'Take care I don't overdo it . 
You will be the worse for it , Fagin , if I do and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me . 
There is something about a roused woman especially if she add to all her other strong passions , the fierce impulses of recklessness and despair which few men like to provoke . 
As they produced no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged , however , he resorted to more tangible arguments . 
The girl laughed again even less composedly than before and , darting a hasty look at Sikes , turned her face aside , and bit her lip till the blood came . 
He's a thief , a liar , a devil , all that's bad , from this night forth . 
'Civil words ! cried the girl , whose passion was frightful to see . 
'Civil words , you villain ! Yes , you deserve 'em from me . 
I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this ! pointing to Oliver . 
'I have been in the same trade , and in the same service , for twelve years since . 
'She's all right now , said Sikes , laying her down in a corner . 
'She's uncommon strong in the arms , when she's up in this way . 
'It's the worst of having to do with women , said the Jew , replacing his club 'but they're clever , and we can't get on , in our line , without 'em . 
Charley , show Oliver to bed . 
'I suppose he'd better not wear his best clothes tomorrow , Fagin , had he ? inquired Charley Bates . 
'Certainly not , replied the Jew , reciprocating the grin with which Charley put the question . 
'Put off the smart ones , said Charley , 'and I'll give 'em to Fagin to take care of . 
What fun it is ! Poor Oliver unwillingly complied . 
Master Bates rolling up the new clothes under his arm , departed from the room , leaving Oliver in the dark , and locking the door behind him . 
But he was sick and weary and he soon fell sound asleep . 
The hero sinks upon his straw bed , weighed down by fetters and misfortunes in the next scene , his faithful but unconscious squire regales the audience with a comic song . 
Such changes appear absurd but they are not so unnatural as they would seem at first sight . 
Mr. Bumble emerged at early morning from the workhouse gate , and walked with portly carriage and commanding steps , up the High Street . 
He was in the full bloom and pride of beadlehood his cocked hat and coat were dazzling in the morning sun he clutched his cane with the vigorous tenacity of health and power . 
Mr. Bumble always carried his head high but this morning it was higher than usual . 
Mr. Bumble stopped not to converse with the small shopkeepers and others who spoke to him , deferentially , as he passed along . 
'Drat that beadle ! said Mrs. Mann , hearing the well known shaking at the garden gate . 
Mann , said Mr. Bumble not sitting upon , or dropping himself into a seat , as any common jackanapes would but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair 'Mrs . 
Mann , ma'am , good morning . 
'A porochial life is not a bed of roses , Mrs. Mann . 
'Ah , that it isn't indeed , Mr. Bumble , rejoined the lady . 
And all the infant paupers might have chorussed the rejoinder with great propriety , if they had heard it . 
Mrs. Mann , not very well knowing what the beadle meant , raised her hands with a look of sympathy , and sighed . 
'Ah ! You may well sigh , Mrs. Mann ! said the beadle . 
Mann , I am going to London . 
'Lauk , Mr. Bumble ! cried Mrs. Mann , starting back . 
'To London , ma'am , resumed the inflexible beadle , 'by coach . 
And I very much question , added Mr. Bumble , drawing himself up , 'whether the Clerkinwell Sessions will not find themselves in the wrong box before they have done with me . 
'Oh ! you mustn't be too hard upon them , sir , said Mrs. Mann , coaxingly . 
There was so much determination and depth of purpose about the menacing manner in which Mr. Bumble delivered himself of these words , that Mrs. Mann appeared quite awed by them . 
At length she said , 'You're going by coach , sir ? I thought it was always usual to send them paupers in carts . 
'That's when they're ill , Mrs. Mann , said the beadle . 
'We put the sick paupers into open carts in the rainy weather , to prevent their taking cold . 
'Oh ! said Mrs. Mann . 
'The opposition coach contracts for these two and takes them cheap , said Mr. Bumble . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! When Mr. Bumble had laughed a little while , his eyes again encountered the cocked hat and he became grave . 
'We are forgetting business , ma'am , said the beadle 'here is your porochial stipend for the month . 
Mr. Bumble produced some silver money rolled up in paper , from his pocket book and requested a receipt which Mrs. Mann wrote . 
'It's very much blotted , sir , said the farmer of infants 'but it's formal enough , I dare say . 
Thank you , Mr. Bumble , sir , I am very much obliged to you , I'm sure . 
Mr. Bumble nodded , blandly , in acknowledgment of Mrs. Mann's curtsey and inquired how the children were . 
'Bless their dear little hearts ! said Mrs. Mann with emotion , 'they're as well as can be , the dears ! Of course , except the two that died last week . 
'Isn't that boy no better ? inquired Mr. Bumble . 
Mrs. Mann shook her head . 
'He's a ill conditioned , wicious , bad disposed porochial child that , said Mr. Bumble angrily . 
'Where is he ? 'I'll bring him to you in one minute , sir , replied Mrs. Mann . 
'Here , you Dick ! After some calling , Dick was discovered . 
Having had his face put under the pump , and dried upon Mrs. Mann's gown , he was led into the awful presence of Mr. Bumble , the beadle . 
The child was pale and thin his cheeks were sunken and his eyes large and bright . 
The scanty parish dress , the livery of his misery , hung loosely on his feeble body and his young limbs had wasted away , like those of an old man . 
Such was the little being who stood trembling beneath Mr. Bumble's glance not daring to lift his eyes from the floor and dreading even to hear the beadle's voice . 
'Can't you look at the gentleman , you obstinate boy ? said Mrs. Mann . 
The child meekly raised his eyes , and encountered those of Mr. Bumble . 
'What's the matter with you , porochial Dick ? inquired Mr. Bumble , with well timed jocularity . 
'Nothing , sir , replied the child faintly . 
'I should think not , said Mrs. Mann , who had of course laughed very much at Mr. Bumble's humour . 
'You want for nothing , I'm sure . 
'I should like faltered the child . 
Mr. Bumble surveyed the little speaker , from head to foot , with indescribable astonishment and , turning to his companion , said , 'They're all in one story , Mrs. Mann . 
That out dacious Oliver had demogalized them all ! 'I couldn't have believed it , sir' said Mrs Mann , holding up her hands , and looking malignantly at Dick . 
'I never see such a hardened little wretch ! 'Take him away , ma'am ! said Mr. Bumble imperiously . 
'This must be stated to the board , Mrs. Mann . 
'I hope the gentleman will understand that it isn't my fault , sir ? said Mrs. Mann , whimpering pathetically . 
'They shall understand that , ma'am they shall be acquainted with the true state of the case , said Mr. Bumble . 
'There take him away , I can't bear the sight on him . 
Dick was immediately taken away , and locked up in the coal cellar . 
Mr. Bumble shortly afterwards took himself off , to prepare for his journey . 
The very first paragraph upon which Mr. Bumble's eye rested , was the following advertisement . 
And then followed a full description of Oliver's dress , person , appearance , and disappearance with the name and address of Mr. Brownlow at full length . 
'Is Mr. Brownlow at home ? inquired Mr. Bumble of the girl who opened the door . 
'Come in , come in , said the old lady 'I knew we should hear of him . 
Poor dear ! I knew we should ! I was certain of it . 
Bless his heart ! I said so all along . 
Having heard this , the worthy old lady hurried back into the parlour again and seating herself on a sofa , burst into tears . 
The girl , who was not quite so susceptible , had run upstairs meanwhile and now returned with a request that Mr. Bumble would follow her immediately which he did . 
He was shown into the little back study , where sat Mr. Brownlow and his friend Mr. Grimwig , with decanters and glasses before them . 
The latter gentleman at once burst into the exclamation 'A beadle . 
A parish beadle , or I'll eat my head . 
'Pray don't interrupt just now , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'Take a seat , will you ? Mr. Bumble sat himself down quite confounded by the oddity of Mr. Grimwig's manner . 
'And you ARE a beadle , are you not ? inquired Mr. Grimwig . 
'I am a porochial beadle , gentlemen , rejoined Mr. Bumble proudly . 
'Of course , observed Mr. Grimwig aside to his friend , 'I knew he was . 
'Well , what DO you know of him ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'Speak out , my friend , if you have anything to say . 
What DO you know of him ? 'You don't happen to know any good of him , do you ? said Mr. Grimwig , caustically after an attentive perusal of Mr. Bumble's features . 
Mr. Bumble , catching at the inquiry very quickly , shook his head with portentous solemnity . 
'You see ? said Mr. Grimwig , looking triumphantly at Mr. Brownlow . 
Mr. Brownlow looked apprehensively at Mr. Bumble's pursed up countenance and requested him to communicate what he knew regarding Oliver , in as few words as possible . 
Mr. Bumble put down his hat unbuttoned his coat folded his arms inclined his head in a retrospective manner and , after a few moments' reflection , commenced his story . 
That he had , from his birth , displayed no better qualities than treachery , ingratitude , and malice . 
In proof of his really being the person he represented himself , Mr. Bumble laid upon the table the papers he had brought to town . 
Folding his arms again , he then awaited Mr. Brownlow's observations . 
'I fear it is all too true , said the old gentleman sorrowfully , after looking over the papers . 
'This is not much for your intelligence but I would gladly have given you treble the money , if it had been favourable to the boy . 
It was too late to do it now , however so he shook his head gravely , and , pocketing the five guineas , withdrew . 
Mr. Brownlow paced the room to and fro for some minutes evidently so much disturbed by the beadle's tale , that even Mr. Grimwig forbore to vex him further . 
At length he stopped , and rang the bell violently . 
Bedwin , said Mr. Brownlow , when the housekeeper appeared 'that boy , Oliver , is an imposter . 
'It can't be , sir . 
It cannot be , said the old lady energetically . 
'I tell you he is , retorted the old gentleman . 
'What do you mean by can't be ? We have just heard a full account of him from his birth and he has been a thorough paced little villain , all his life . 
'I never will believe it , sir , replied the old lady , firmly . 
'Never ! 'You old women never believe anything but quack doctors , and lying story books , growled Mr. Grimwig . 
'I knew it all along . 
'He was a dear , grateful , gentle child , sir , retorted Mrs. Bedwin , indignantly . 
'I know what children are , sir and have done these forty years and people who can't say the same , shouldn't say anything about them . 
That's my opinion ! This was a hard hit at Mr. Grimwig , who was a bachelor . 
'Silence ! said the old gentleman , feigning an anger he was far from feeling . 
'Never let me hear the boy's name again . 
I rang to tell you that . 
Never , on any pretence , mind ! You may leave the room , Mrs. Bedwin . 
Remember ! I am in earnest . 
There were sad hearts at Mr. Brownlow's that night . 
Little Oliver's blood ran cold , as he listened to the Jew's words , and imperfectly comprehended the dark threats conveyed in them . 
As he glanced timidly up , and met the Jew's searching look , he felt that his pale face and trembling limbs were neither unnoticed nor unrelished by that wary old gentleman . 
Then , taking his hat , and covering himself with an old patched great coat , he went out , and locked the room door behind him . 
Which , never failing to revert to his kind friends , and the opinion they must long ago have formed of him , were sad indeed . 
After the lapse of a week or so , the Jew left the room door unlocked and he was at liberty to wander about the house . 
It was a very dirty place . 
and , with this end and aim , he condescendingly commanded Oliver to assist him in his toilet , straightway . 
The phrase , rendered into plain English , signifieth , cleaning his boots . 
The Dodger sighed again , and resumed his pipe as did Charley Bates . 
They both smoked , for some seconds , in silence . 
'I suppose you don't even know what a prig is ? said the Dodger mournfully . 
'I think I know that , replied Oliver , looking up . 
'It's a the you're one , are you not ? inquired Oliver , checking himself . 
'I am , replied the Doger . 
'I'd scorn to be anything else . 
'I am , repeated the Dodger . 
So we all are , down to the dog . 
And he's the downiest one of the lot ! 'And the least given to peaching , added Charley Bates . 
'Not a bit of it , observed Charley . 
Don't he look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when he's in company ! pursued the Dodger . 
'Well , well , said the Dodger , recurring to the point from which they had strayed with that mindfulness of his profession which influenced all his proceedings . 
'This hasn't go anything to do with young Green here . 
'No more it has , said Charley . 
'Why don't you put yourself under Fagin , Oliver ? 'And make your fortun' out of hand ? added the Dodger , with a grin . 
'I don't like it , rejoined Oliver , timidly 'I wish they would let me go . 
I I would rather go . 
'And Fagin would RATHER not ! rejoined Charley . 
Oliver knew this too well but thinking it might be dangerous to express his feelings more openly , he only sighed , and went on with his boot cleaning . 
'Go ! exclaimed the Dodger . 
I couldn't do it , said the Dodger , with an air of haughty disgust . 
'You can leave your friends , though , said Oliver with a half smile 'and let them be punished for what you did . 
'Look here ! said the Dodger , drawing forth a handful of shillings and halfpence . 
'Here's a jolly life ! What's the odds where it comes from ? Here , catch hold there's plenty more where they were took from . 
You won't , won't you ? Oh , you precious flat ! 'It's naughty , ain't it , Oliver ? inquired Charley Bates . 
'He'll come to be scragged , won't he ? 'I don't know what that means , replied Oliver . 
'Something in this way , old feller , said Charly . 
'That's what it means , said Charley . 
'Look how he stares , Jack ! I never did see such prime company as that 'ere boy he'll be the death of me , I know he will . 
Master Charley Bates , having laughed heartily again , resumed his pipe with tears in his eyes . 
'You've been brought up bad , said the Dodger , surveying his boots with much satisfaction when Oliver had polished them . 
'Fagin will make something of you , though , or you'll be the first he ever had that turned out unprofitable . 
You'd better begin at once for you'll come to the trade long before you think of it and you're only losing time , Oliver . 
'To be sure , to be sure ! said the Jew , who had entered unseen by Oliver . 
'It all lies in a nutshell my dear in a nutshell , take the Dodger's word for it . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! He understands the catechism of his trade . 
The old man rubbed his hands gleefully together , as he corroborated the Dodger's reasoning in these terms and chuckled with delight at his pupil's proficiency . 
He had small twinkling eyes , and a pock marked face wore a fur cap , a dark corduroy jacket , greasy fustian trousers , and an apron . 
The same remark he considered to apply to the regulation mode of cutting the hair which he held to be decidedly unlawful . 
'Where do you think the gentleman has come from , Oliver ? inquired the Jew , with a grin , as the other boys put a bottle of spirits on the table . 
'I I don't know , sir , replied Oliver . 
'Who's that ? inquired Tom Chitling , casting a contemptuous look at Oliver . 
'A young friend of mine , my dear , replied the Jew . 
'He's in luck , then , said the young man , with a meaning look at Fagin . 
'Never mind where I came from , young 'un you'll find your way there , soon enough , I'll bet a crown ! At this sally , the boys laughed . 
After some more jokes on the same subject , they exchanged a few short whispers with Fagin and withdrew . 
These were , the great advantages of the trade , the proficiency of the Dodger , the amiability of Charley Bates , and the liberality of the Jew himself . 
At length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted and Mr. Chitling did the same for the house of correction becomes fatiguing after a week or two . 
Miss Betsy accordingly withdrew and left the party to their repose . 
In short , the wily old Jew had the boy in his toils . 
The house to which Oliver had been conveyed , was in the neighborhood of Whitechapel . 
The Jew stopped for an instant at the corner of the street and , glancing suspiciously round , crossed the road , and struck off in the direction of the Spitalfields . 
The mud lay thick upon the stones , and a black mist hung over the streets the rain fell sluggishly down , and everything felt cold and clammy to the touch . 
It seemed just the night when it befitted such a being as the Jew to be abroad . 
The Jew was evidently too familiar with the ground he traversed to be at all bewildered , either by the darkness of the night , or the intricacies of the way . 
He hurried through several alleys and streets , and at length turned into one , lighted only by a single lamp at the farther end . 
At the door of a house in this street , he knocked having exchanged a few muttered words with the person who opened it , he walked upstairs . 
A dog growled as he touched the handle of a room door and a man's voice demanded who was there . 
'Only me , Bill only me , my dear , said the Jew looking in . 
'Bring in your body then , said Sikes . 
'Well , my dear , replied the Jew . 
All doubts upon the subject , if he had any , were speedily removed by the young lady's behaviour . 
'It is cold , Nancy dear , said the Jew , as he warmed his skinny hands over the fire . 
'It seems to go right through one , added the old man , touching his side . 
'It must be a piercer , if it finds its way through your heart , said Mr. Sikes . 
'Give him something to drink , Nancy . 
Nancy quickly brought a bottle from a cupboard , in which there were many which , to judge from the diversity of their appearance , were filled with several kinds of liquids . 
Sikes pouring out a glass of brandy , bade the Jew drink it off . 
'Quite enough , quite , thankye , Bill , replied the Jew , putting down the glass after just setting his lips to it . 
'What ! You're afraid of our getting the better of you , are you ? inquired Sikes , fixing his eyes on the Jew . 
'There , said Sikes , smacking his lips . 
'For business ? inquired the Jew . 
'For business , replied Sikes 'so say what you've got to say . 
'About the crib at Chertsey , Bill ? said the Jew , drawing his chair forward , and speaking in a very low voice . 
Wot about it ? inquired Sikes . 
'Ah ! you know what I mean , my dear , said the Jew . 
'He knows what I mean , Nancy don't he ? 'No , he don't , sneered Mr. Sikes . 
'Or he won't , and that's the same thing . 
Wot d'ye mean ? 'Hush , Bill , hush ! said the Jew , who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indignation 'somebody will hear us , my dear . 
'Let 'em hear ! said Sikes 'I don't care . 
But as Mr. Sikes DID care , on reflection , he dropped his voice as he said the words , and grew calmer . 
'There , there , said the Jew , coaxingly . 
'It was only my caution , nothing more . 
'Not at all , replied Sikes coldly . 
'Not to be done at all ! echoed the Jew , leaning back in his chair . 
'No , not at all , rejoined Sikes . 
'At least it can't be a put up job , as we expected . 
'Then it hasn't been properly gone about , said the Jew , turning pale with anger . 
'Don't tell me ! 'But I will tell you , retorted Sikes . 
'The old lady has had 'em these twenty years and if you were to give 'em five hundred pound , they wouldn't be in it . 
'But do you mean to say , my dear , remonstrated the Jew , 'that the women can't be got over ? 'Not a bit of it , replied Sikes . 
'Not by flash Toby Crackit ? said the Jew incredulously . 
'Think what women are , Bill , 'No not even by flash Toby Crackit , replied Sikes . 
'He says he's worn sham whiskers , and a canary waistcoat , the whole blessed time he's been loitering down there , and it's all of no use . 
'He should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers , my dear , said the Jew . 
'So he did , rejoined Sikes , 'and they warn't of no more use than the other plant . 
The Jew looked blank at this information . 
'So it is , said Mr. Sikes . 
'Worse luck ! A long silence ensued during which the Jew was plunged in deep thought , with his face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal . 
Sikes eyed him furtively from time to time . 
Nancy , apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker , sat with her eyes fixed upon the fire , as if she had been deaf to all that passed . 
'Is it a bargain ? inquired Sikes . 
'Yes , my dear , yes , rejoined the Jew his eyes glistening , and every muscle in his face working , with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened . 
'Then , said Sikes , thrusting aside the Jew's hand , with some disdain , 'let it come off as soon as you like . 
Toby and me were over the garden wall the night afore last , sounding the panels of the door and shutters . 
The crib's barred up at night like a jail but there's one part we can crack , safe and softly . 
'Which is that , Bill ? asked the Jew eagerly . 
'Why , whispered Sikes , 'as you cross the lawn 'Yes ? said the Jew , bending his head forward , with his eyes almost starting out of it . 
'Umph ! cried Sikes , stopping short , as the girl , scarcely moving her head , looked suddenly round , and pointed for an instant to the Jew's face . 
'Never mind which part it is . 
You can't do it without me , I know but it's best to be on the safe side when one deals with you . 
'As you like , my dear , as you like' replied the Jew . 
'Is there no help wanted , but yours and Toby's ? 'None , said Sikes . 
'Cept a centre bit and a boy . 
The first we've both got the second you must find us . 
'A boy ! exclaimed the Jew . 
'Oh ! then it's a panel , eh ? 'Never mind wot it is ! replied Sikes . 
'I want a boy , and he musn't be a big 'un . 
we shouldn't have half a dozen boys left in the whole trade , in a year or two . 
'No more we should , acquiesed the Jew , who had been considering during this speech , and had only caught the last sentence . 
'Bill ! 'What now ? inquired Sikes . 
The Jew nodded his head towards Nancy , who was still gazing at the fire and intimated , by a sign , that he would have her told to leave the room . 
Sikes shrugged his shoulders impatiently , as if he thought the precaution unnecessary but complied , nevertheless , by requesting Miss Nancy to fetch him a jug of beer . 
'You don't want any beer , said Nancy , folding her arms , and retaining her seat very composedly . 
'I tell you I do ! replied Sikes . 
'Nonsense , rejoined the girl coolly , 'Go on , Fagin . 
I know what he's going to say , Bill he needn't mind me . 
Sikes looked from one to the other in some surprise . 
'Why , you don't mind the old girl , do you , Fagin ? he asked at length . 
'You've known her long enough to trust her , or the Devil's in it . 
She ain't one to blab . 
Are you Nancy ? I should think not ! replied the young lady drawing her chair up to the table , and putting her elbows upon it . 
'No , no , my dear , I know you're not , said the Jew 'but and again the old man paused . 
'But wot ? inquired Sikes . 
'I didn't know whether she mightn't p'r'aps be out of sorts , you know , my dear , as she was the other night , replied the Jew . 
These seemed to have the effect of re assuring both gentlemen for the Jew nodded his head with a satisfied air , and resumed his seat as did Mr. Sikes likewise . 
'Now , Fagin , said Nancy with a laugh . 
'Tell Bill at once , about Oliver ! 'Ha ! you're a clever one , my dear the sharpest girl I ever saw ! said the Jew , patting her on the neck . 
'It WAS about Oliver I was going to speak , sure enough . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'What about him ? demanded Sikes . 
'He's the boy for you , my dear , replied the Jew in a hoarse whisper laying his finger on the side of his nose , and grinning frightfully . 
'Have him , Bill ! said Nancy . 
'I would , if I was in your place . 
He mayn't be so much up , as any of the others but that's not what you want , if he's only to open a door for you . 
Depend upon it he's a safe one , Bill . 
'I know he is , rejoined Fagin . 
'He's been in good training these last few weeks , and it's time he began to work for his bread . 
Besides , the others are all too big . 
'Well , he is just the size I want , said Mr. Sikes , ruminating . 
'And will do everything you want , Bill , my dear , interposed the Jew 'he can't help himself . 
That is , if you frighten him enough . 
'Frighten him ! echoed Sikes . 
'It'll be no sham frightening , mind you . 
If there's anything queer about him when we once get into the work in for a penny , in for a pound . 
You won't see him alive again , Fagin . 
Think of that , before you send him . 
Mark my words ! said the robber , poising a crowbar , which he had drawn from under the bedstead . 
'I've thought of it all , said the Jew with energy . 
'I've I've had my eye upon him , my dears , close close . 
Once let him feel that he is one of us once fill his mind with the idea that he has been a thief and he's ours ! Ours for his life . 
'Perhaps I do , my dear , said the Jew , with a shrill chuckle . 
'Mine , if you like , Bill . 
Their looks convict 'em when they get into trouble , and I lose 'em all . 
With this boy , properly managed , my dears , I could do what I couldn't with twenty of them . 
Never mind how he came there it's quite enough for my power over him that he was in a robbery that's all I want . 
Now , how much better this is , than being obliged to put the poor leetle boy out of the way which would be dangerous , and we should lose by it besides . 
'When is it to be done ? asked Nancy , stopping some turbulent exclamation on the part of Mr. Sikes , expressive of the disgust with which he received Fagin's affectation of humanity . 
'Good , said the Jew 'there's no moon . 
'It's all arranged about bringing off the swag , is it ? asked the Jew . 
'And about 'Oh , ah , it's all planned , rejoined Sikes , interrupting him . 
You'd better bring the boy here to morrow night . 
I shall get off the stone an hour arter daybreak . 
Then you hold your tongue , and keep the melting pot ready , and that's all you'll have to do . 
'Good night , Nancy , said the Jew , muffling himself up as before . 
Their eyes met , and the Jew scrutinised her , narrowly . 
There was no flinching about the girl . 
She was as true and earnest in the matter as Toby Crackit himself could be . 
The Jew again bade her good night , and , bestowing a sly kick upon the prostrate form of Mr. Sikes while her back was turned , groped downstairs . 
'Always the way ! muttered the Jew to himself as he turned homeward . 
'The worst of these women is , that a very little thing serves to call up some long forgotten feeling and , the best of them is , that it never lasts . 
'Is Oliver a bed ? I want to speak to him , was his first remark as they descended the stairs . 
'Hours ago , replied the Dodger , throwing open a door . 
'Not now , said the Jew , turning softly away . 
CHAPTER XX WHEREIN OLVER IS DELIVERED OVER TO MR . 
'To to stop there , sir ? asked Oliver , anxiously . 
'No , no , my dear . 
Not to stop there , replied the Jew . 
'We shouldn't like to lose you . 
Don't be afraid , Oliver , you shall come back to us again . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! We won't be so cruel as to send you away , my dear . 
'Why , do you think ? inquired Fagin , parrying the question . 
'Indeed I don't know , sir , replied Oliver . 
'Bah ! said the Jew , turning away with a disappointed countenance from a close perusal of the boy's face . 
'Wait till Bill tells you , then . 
He had no other opportunity for the Jew remained very surly and silent till night when he prepared to go abroad . 
'You may burn a candle , said the Jew , putting one upon the table . 
'And here's a book for you to read , till they come to fetch you . 
Good night ! 'Good night ! replied Oliver , softly . 
The Jew walked to the door looking over his shoulder at the boy as he went . 
Suddenly stopping , he called him by his name . 
Oliver looked up the Jew , pointing to the candle , motioned him to light it . 
'Take heed , Oliver ! take heed ! said the old man , shaking his right hand before him in a warning manner . 
'He's a rough man , and thinks nothing of blood when his own is up . 
W hatever falls out , say nothing and do what he bids you . 
Mind ! Placing a strong emphasis on the last word , he suffered his features gradually to resolve themselves into a ghastly grin , and , nodding his head , left the room . 
Oliver leaned his head upon his hand when the old man disappeared , and pondered , with a trembling heart , on the words he had just heard . 
The more he thought of the Jew's admonition , the more he was at a loss to divine its real purpose and meaning . 
He was too well accustomed to suffering , and had suffered too much where he was , to bewail the prospect of change very severely . 
He turned over the leaves . 
Carelessly at first but , lighting on a passage which attracted his attention , he soon became intent upon the volume . 
It was a history of the lives and trials of great criminals and the pages were soiled and thumbed with use . 
and led on , by their own bad thoughts , to such dreadful bloodshed as it made the flesh creep , and the limbs quail , to think of . 
In a paroxysm of fear , the boy closed the book , and thrust it from him . 
He had concluded his prayer , but still remained with his head buried in his hands , when a rustling noise aroused him . 
'What's that ! he cried , starting up , and catching sight of a figure standing by the door . 
Only me , replied a tremulous voice . 
Oliver raised the candle above his head and looked towards the door . 
'Put down the light , said the girl , turning away her head . 
Oliver saw that she was very pale , and gently inquired if she were ill . 
The girl threw herself into a chair , with her back towards him and wrung her hands but made no reply . 
'God forgive me ! she cried after a while , 'I never thought of this . 
'Has anything happened ? asked Oliver . 
'Can I help you ? I will if I can . 
She rocked herself to and fro caught her throat and , uttering a gurgling sound , gasped for breath . 
Drawing her chair close to it , she sat there , for a little time , without speaking but at length she raised her head , and looked round . 
'I don't know what comes over me sometimes , said she , affecting to busy herself in arranging her dress 'it's this damp dirty room , I think . 
Now , Nolly , dear , are you ready ? 'Am I to go with you ? asked Oliver . 
I have come from Bill , replied the girl . 
'You are to go with me . 
'What for ? asked Oliver , recoiling . 
'What for ? echoed the girl , raising her eyes , and averting them again , the moment they encountered the boy's face . 
'Oh ! For no harm . 
'I don't believe it , said Oliver who had watched her closely . 
'Have it your own way , rejoined the girl , affecting to laugh . 
'For no good , then . 
Oliver could see that he had some power over the girl's better feelings , and , for an instant , thought of appealing to her compassion for his helpless state . 
As the reflection occured to him , he stepped forward and said , somewhat hastily , that he was ready . 
Neither his brief consideration , nor its purport , was lost on his companion . 
She eyed him narrowly , while he spoke and cast upon him a look of intelligence which sufficiently showed that she guessed what had been passing in his thoughts . 
'Hush ! said the girl , stooping over him , and pointing to the door as she looked cautiously round . 
I have tried hard for you , but all to no purpose . 
You are hedged round and round . 
If ever you are to get loose from here , this is not the time . 
Struck by the energy of her manner , Oliver looked up in her face with great surprise . 
She seemed to speak the truth her countenance was white and agitated and she trembled with very earnestness . 
I have promised for your being quiet and silent if you are not , you will only do harm to yourself and me too , and perhaps be my death . 
See here ! I have borne all this for you already , as true as God sees me show it . 
If I could help you , I would but I have not the power . 
They don't mean to harm you whatever they make you do , is no fault of yours . 
Hush ! Every word from you is a blow for me . 
Make haste ! Your hand ! She caught the hand which Oliver instinctively placed in hers , and , blowing out the light , drew him after her up the stairs . 
The door was opened , quickly , by some one shrouded in the darkness , and was as quickly closed , when they had passed out . 
A hackney cabriolet was in waiting with the same vehemence which she had exhibited in addressing Oliver , the girl pulled him in with her , and drew the curtains close . 
The driver wanted no directions , but lashed his horse into full speed , without the delay of an instant . 
The girl still held Oliver fast by the hand , and continued to pour into his ear , the warnings and assurances she had already imparted . 
For one brief moment , Oliver cast a hurried glance along the empty street , and a cry for help hung upon his lips . 
But the girl's voice was in his ear , beseeching him in such tones of agony to remember her , that he had not the heart to utter it . 
While he hesitated , the opportunity was gone he was already in the house , and the door was shut . 
'This way , said the girl , releasing her hold for the first time . 
'Bill ! 'Hallo ! replied Sikes appearing at the head of the stairs , with a candle . 
'Oh ! That's the time of day . 
Come on ! This was a very strong expression of approbation , an uncommonly hearty welcome , from a person of Mr. Sikes' temperament . 
Nancy , appearing much gratified thereby , saluted him cordially . 
'Bull's eye's gone home with Tom , observed Sikes , as he lighted them up . 
'He'd have been in the way . 
'That's right , rejoined Nancy . 
'So you've got the kid , said Sikes when they had all reached the room closing the door as he spoke . 
'Yes , here he is , replied Nancy . 
'Did he come quiet ? inquired Sikes . 
'Like a lamb , rejoined Nancy . 
'I'm glad to hear it , said Sikes , looking grimly at Oliver 'for the sake of his young carcase as would otherways have suffered for it . 
Come here , young 'un and let me read you a lectur' , which is as well got over at once . 
'Now , first do you know wot this is ? inquired Sikes , taking up a pocket pistol which lay on the table . 
Oliver replied in the affirmative . 
'Well , then , look here , continued Sikes . 
'This is powder that 'ere's a bullet and this is a little bit of a old hat for waddin' . 
Oliver murmured his comprehension of the different bodies referred to and Mr. Sikes proceeded to load the pistol , with great nicety and deliberation . 
'Now it's loaded , said Mr. Sikes , when he had finished . 
'Yes , I see it is , sir , replied Oliver . 
So , if you DO make up your mind to speak without leave , say your prayers first . 
Having bestowed a scowl upon the object of this warning , to increase its effect , Mr. Sikes continued . 
'That's it ! observed Mr. Sikes , approvingly 'women can always put things in fewest words . 
Except when it's blowing up and then they lengthens it out . 
And now that he's thoroughly up to it , let's have some supper , and get a snooze before starting . 
Weary with watching and anxiety , he at length fell asleep . 
Nancy was busily engaged in preparing breakfast . 
It was not yet daylight for the candle was still burning , and it was quite dark outside . 
A sharp rain , too , was beating against the window panes and the sky looked black and cloudy . 
'Now , then ! growled Sikes , as Oliver started up 'half past five ! Look sharp , or you'll get no breakfast for it's late as it is . 
Oliver was not long in making his toilet having taken some breakfast , he replied to a surly inquiry from Sikes , by saying that he was quite ready . 
Nancy , scarcely looking at the boy , threw him a handkerchief to tie round his throat Sikes gave him a large rough cape to button over his shoulders . 
Oliver turned , for an instant , when they reached the door , in the hope of meeting a look from the girl . 
But she had resumed her old seat in front of the fire , and sat , perfectly motionless before it . 
CHAPTER XXI THE EXPEDITION It was a cheerless morning when they got into the street blowing and raining hard and the clouds looking dull and stormy . 
The night had been very wet large pools of water had collected in the road and the kennels were overflowing . 
There appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town the windows of the houses were all closely shut and the streets through which they passed , were noiseless and empty . 
By the time they had turned into the Bethnal Green Road , the day had fairly begun to break . 
The public houses , with gas lights burning inside , were already open . 
By degrees , other shops began to be unclosed , and a few scattered people were met with . 
As they approached the City , the noise and traffic gradually increased when they threaded the streets between Shoreditch and Smithfield , it had swelled into a roar of sound and bustle . 
It was as light as it was likely to be , till night came on again , and the busy morning of half the London population had begun . 
'Now , young 'un ! said Sikes , looking up at the clock of St . 
Andrew's Church , 'hard upon seven ! you must step out . 
Seeing 'Hounslow' written on it , he asked the driver with as much civility as he could assume , if he would give them a lift as far as Isleworth . 
'Jump up , said the man . 
'Is that your boy ? 'Yes he's my boy , replied Sikes , looking hard at Oliver , and putting his hand abstractedly into the pocket where the pistol was . 
'Your father walks rather too quick for you , don't he , my man ? inquired the driver seeing that Oliver was out of breath . 
'Not a bit of it , replied Sikes , interposing . 
Here , take hold of my hand , Ned . 
As they passed the different mile stones , Oliver wondered , more and more , where his companion meant to take him . 
Kensington , Hammersmith , Chiswick , Kew Bridge , Brentford , were all passed and yet they went on as steadily as if they had only just begun their journey . 
At length , they came to a public house called the Coach and Horses a little way beyond which , another road appeared to run off . 
And here , the cart stopped . 
'Good bye , boy , said the man . 
'He's sulky , replied Sikes , giving him a shake 'he's sulky . 
A young dog ! Don't mind him . 
'Not I ! rejoined the other , getting into his cart . 
'It's a fine day , after all . 
Sikes waited until he had fairly gone and then , telling Oliver he might look about him if he wanted , once again led him onward on his journey . 
Here against the wall of a house , Oliver saw written up in pretty large letters , 'Hampton . 
They lingered about , in the fields , for some hours . 
At length they came back into the town and , turning into an old public house with a defaced sign board , ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire . 
It was quite dark when he was awakened by a push from Sikes . 
Rousing himself sufficiently to sit up and look about him , he found that worthy in close fellowship and communication with a labouring man , over a pint of ale . 
'So , you're going on to Lower Halliford , are you ? inquired Sikes . 
'Yes , I am , replied the man , who seemed a little the worse or better , as the case might be for drinking 'and not slow about it neither . 
My horse hasn't got a load behind him going back , as he had coming up in the mornin' and he won't be long a doing of it . 
Ecod ! he's a good 'un ! 'Could you give my boy and me a lift as far as there ? demanded Sikes , pushing the ale towards his new friend . 
'If you're going directly , I can , replied the man , looking out of the pot . 
'Are you going to Halliford ? 'Going on to Shepperton , replied Sikes . 
'I'm your man , as far as I go , replied the other . 
'Is all paid , Becky ? 'Yes , the other gentleman's paid , replied the girl . 
'I say ! said the man , with tipsy gravity 'that won't do , you know . 
'Why not ? rejoined Sikes . 
To which Mr. Sikes replied , he was joking as , if he had been sober , there would have been strong reason to suppose he was . 
The horse , whose health had been drunk in his absence , was standing outside ready harnessed to the cart . 
The night was very dark . 
A damp mist rose from the river , and the marshy ground about and spread itself over the dreary fields . 
It was piercing cold , too all was gloomy and black . 
Not a word was spoken for the driver had grown sleepy and Sikes was in no mood to lead him into conversation . 
As they passed Sunbury Church , the clock struck seven . 
There was a light in the ferry house window opposite which streamed across the road , and threw into more sombre shadow a dark yew tree with graves beneath it . 
There was a dull sound of falling water not far off and the leaves of the old tree stirred gently in the night wind . 
It seemed like quiet music for the repose of the dead . 
Sunbury was passed through , and they came again into the lonely road . 
Two or three miles more , and the cart stopped . 
Sikes alighted , took Oliver by the hand , and they once again walked on . 
On looking intently forward , Oliver saw that the water was just below them , and that they were coming to the foot of a bridge . 
Sikes kept straight on , until they were close upon the bridge then turned suddenly down a bank upon the left . 
'The water ! thought Oliver , turning sick with fear . 
There was a window on each side of the dilapidated entrance and one story above but no light was visible . 
The house was dark , dismantled and the all appearance , uninhabited . 
Sikes , with Oliver's hand still in his , softly approached the low porch , and raised the latch . 
The door yielded to the pressure , and they passed in together . 
CHAPTER XXII THE BURGLARY 'Hallo ! cried a loud , hoarse voice , as soon as they set foot in the passage . 
'Don't make such a row , said Sikes , bolting the door . 
'Show a glim , Toby . 
'Aha ! my pal ! cried the same voice . 
'A glim , Barney , a glim ! Show the gentleman in , Barney wake up first , if convenient . 
'Do you hear ? cried the same voice . 
'There's Bill Sikes in the passage with nobody to do the civil to him and you sleeping there , as if you took laudanum with your meals , and nothing stronger . 
'Bister Sikes ! exclaimed Barney , with real or counterfeit joy 'cub id , sir cub id . 
'Here ! you get on first , said Sikes , putting Oliver in front of him . 
'Quicker ! or I shall tread upon your heels . 
He was dressed in a smartly cut snuff coloured coat , with large brass buttons an orange neckerchief a coarse , staring , shawl pattern waistcoat and drab breeches . 
'Bill , my boy ! said this figure , turning his head towards the door , 'I'm glad to see you . 
I was almost afraid you'd given it up in which case I should have made a personal wentur . 
Only the boy ! replied Sikes , drawing a chair towards the fire . 
'Wud of Bister Fagid's lads , exclaimed Barney , with a grin . 
'Fagin's , eh ! exclaimed Toby , looking at Oliver . 
'Wot an inwalable boy that'll make , for the old ladies' pockets in chapels ! His mug is a fortin' to him . 
Sit down by the fire , younker , and rest yourself for you'll have to go out with us again to night , though not very far off . 
Mr. Sikes did the same . 
'A drain for the boy , said Toby , half filling a wine glass . 
'Down with it , innocence . 
'Indeed , said Oliver , looking piteously up into the man's face 'indeed , I 'Down with it ! echoed Toby . 
'Do you think I don't know what's good for you ? Tell him to drink it , Bill . 
'He had better ! said Sikes clapping his hand upon his pocket . 
'Burn my body , if he isn't more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers . 
, the two men laid themselves down on chairs for a short nap . 
Oliver retained his stool by the fire Barney wrapped in a blanket , stretched himself on the floor close outside the fender . 
They slept , or appeared to sleep , for some time nobody stirring but Barney , who rose once or twice to throw coals on the fire . 
In an instant , the other two were on their legs , and all were actively engaged in busy preparation . 
'Barkers for me , Barney , said Toby Crackit . 
'Here they are , replied Barney , producing a pair of pistols . 
'All right ! replied Toby , stowing them away . 
'The persuaders ? 'I've got 'em , replied Sikes . 
'Crape , keys , centre bits , darkies nothing forgotten ? inquired Toby fastening a small crowbar to a loop inside the skirt of his coat . 
'All right , rejoined his companion . 
'Bring them bits of timber , Barney . 
That's the time of day . 
With these words , he took a thick stick from Barney's hands , who , having delivered another to Toby , busied himself in fastening on Oliver's cape . 
'Now then ! said Sikes , holding out his hand . 
'Take his other hand , Toby , said Sikes . 
The man went to the door , and returned to announce that all was quiet . 
The two robbers issued forth with Oliver between them . 
Barney , having made all fast , rolled himself up as before , and was soon asleep again . 
It was now intensely dark . 
They crossed the bridge , and kept on towards the lights which he had seen before . 
They were at no great distance off and , as they walked pretty briskly , they soon arrived at Chertsey . 
'Slap through the town , whispered Sikes 'there'll be nobody in the way , to night , to see us . 
Toby acquiesced and they hurried through the main street of the little town , which at that late hour was wholly deserted . 
A dim light shone at intervals from some bed room window and the hoarse barking of dogs occasionally broke the silence of the night . 
But there was nobody abroad . 
They had cleared the town , as the church bell struck two . 
Quickening their pace , they turned up a road upon the left hand . 
'The boy next , said Toby . 
'Hoist him up I'll catch hold of him . 
Before Oliver had time to look round , Sikes had caught him under the arms and in three or four seconds he and Toby were lying on the grass on the other side . 
And they stole cautiously towards the house . 
He clasped his hands together , and involuntarily uttered a subdued exclamation of horror . 
A mist came before his eyes the cold sweat stood upon his ashy face his limbs failed him and he sank upon his knees . 
'Get up ! murmured Sikes , trembling with rage , and drawing the pistol from his pocket 'Get up , or I'll strew your brains upon the grass . 
'Oh ! for God's sake let me go ! cried Oliver 'let me run away and die in the fields . 
I will never come near London never , never ! Oh ! pray have mercy on me , and do not make me steal . 
'Hush ! cried the man 'it won't answer here . 
Say another word , and I'll do your business myself with a crack on the head . 
That makes no noise , and is quite as certain , and more genteel . 
Here , Bill , wrench the shutter open . 
He's game enough now , I'll engage . 
I've seen older hands of his age took the same way , for a minute or two , on a cold night . 
Sikes , invoking terrific imprecations upon Fagin's head for sending Oliver on such an errand , plied the crowbar vigorously , but with little noise . 
After some delay , and some assistance from Toby , the shutter to which he had referred , swung open on its hinges . 
A very brief exercise of Mr. Sike's art , sufficed to overcome the fastening of the lattice and it soon stood wide open also . 
Take this light go softly up the steps straight afore you , and along the little hall , to the street door unfasten it , and let us in . 
'There's a bolt at the top , you won't be able to reach , interposed Toby . 
'Stand upon one of the hall chairs . 
There are three there , Bill , with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on 'em which is the old lady's arms . 
'Keep quiet , can't you ? replied Sikes , with a threatening look . 
'The room door is open , is it ? 'Wide , repied Toby , after peeping in to satisfy himself . 
Ha ! ha ! Barney 'ticed him away to night . 
So neat ! Although Mr. Crackit spoke in a scarcely audible whisper , and laughed without noise , Sikes imperiously commanded him to be silent , and to get to work . 
'Take this lantern , said Sikes , looking into the room . 
'You see the stairs afore you ? Oliver , more dead than alive , gasped out , 'Yes . 
'It's done in a minute , said Sikes , in the same low whisper . 
'Directly I leave go of you , do your work . 
Hark ! 'What's that ? whispered the other man . 
'Nothing , said Sikes , releasing his hold of Oliver . 
Filled with this idea , he advanced at once , but stealthiy . 
'Come back ! suddenly cried Sikes aloud . 
Sikes had disappeared for an instant but he was up again , and had him by the collar before the smoke had cleared away . 
He fired his own pistol after the men , who were already retreating and dragged the boy up . 
'Clasp your arm tighter , said Sikes , as he drew him through the window . 
'Give me a shawl here . 
And then , the noises grew confused in the distance and a cold deadly feeling crept over the boy's heart and he saw or heard no more . 
CHAPTER XXIII WHICH CONTAINS THE SUBSTANCE OF A PLEASANT CONVERSATION BETWEEN MR . 
BUMBLE AND A LADY AND SHOWS THAT EVEN A BEADLE MAY BE SUSCEPTIBLE ON SOME POINTS The night was bitter cold . 
In fact , Mrs. Corney was about to solace herself with a cup of tea . 
into the inmost recesses of a two ounce tin tea caddy , proceeded to make the tea . 
Oh dear ! With these words , the matron dropped into her chair , and , once more resting her elbow on the table , thought of her solitary fate . 
'I shall never get another ! said Mrs. Corney , pettishly 'I shall never get another like him . 
Whether this remark bore reference to the husband , or the teapot , is uncertain . 
It might have been the latter for Mrs. Corney looked at it as she spoke and took it up afterwards . 
She had just tasted her first cup , when she was disturbed by a soft tap at the room door . 
'Oh , come in with you ! said Mrs. Corney , sharply . 
'Some of the old women dying , I suppose . 
They always die when I'm at meals . 
Don't stand there , letting the cold air in , don't . 
What's amiss now , eh ? 'Nothing , ma'am , nothing , replied a man's voice . 
'Shall I shut the door , ma'am ? The lady modestly hesitated to reply , lest there should be any impropriety in holding an interview with Mr. Bumble , with closed doors . 
Mr. Bumble taking advantage of the hesitation , and being very cold himself , shut it without permission . 
'Hard weather , Mr. Bumble , said the matron . 
'Hard , indeed , ma'am , replied the beadle . 
'Anti porochial weather this , ma'am . 
When would they be , Mr. Bumble ? said the matron , sipping her tea . 
'When , indeed , ma'am ! rejoined Mr. Bumble . 
'Why here's one man that , in consideraton of his wife and large family , has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese , full weight . 
The matron expressed her entire concurrence in this intelligible simile and the beadle went on . 
'I never , said Mr. Bumble , 'see anything like the pitch it's got to . 
, goes to our overseer's door when he has got company coming to dinner and says , he must be relieved , Mrs. Corney . 
As he wouldn't go away , and shocked the company very much , our overseer sent him out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal . 
Then I'll die in the streets ! says the vagrant . 
Oh no , you won't , says our overseer . 
'Ha ! ha ! That was very good ! So like Mr. Grannett , wasn't it ? interposed the matron . 
'Well , Mr. Bumble ? 'Well , ma'am , rejoined the beadle , 'he went away and he DID die in the streets . 
There's a obstinate pauper for you ! 'It beats anything I could have believed , observed the matron emphatically . 
'But don't you think out of door relief a very bad thing , any way , Mr. Bumble ? You're a gentleman of experience , and ought to know . 
Corney , said the beadle , smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior information , 'out of door relief , properly managed , ma'am is the porochial safeguard . 
The great principle of out of door relief is , to give the paupers exactly what they don't want and then they get tired of coming . 
'Dear me ! exclaimed Mrs. Corney . 
'Well , that is a good one , too ! 'Yes . 
That's the rule now , Mrs. Corney , all over the country . 
'You'll have a very cold walk , Mr. Bumble , said the matron . 
'It blows , ma'am , replied Mr. Bumble , turning up his coat collar , 'enough to cut one's ears off . 
As he slowly seated himself , he looked at the lady . 
She fixed her eyes upon the little teapot . 
Mr. Bumble coughed again , and slightly smiled . 
Mrs. Corney rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet . 
As she sat down , her eyes once again encountered those of the gallant beadle she coloured , and applied herself to the task of making his tea . 
Again Mr. Bumble coughed louder this time than he had coughed yet . 
'Sweet ? Mr. Bumble ? inquired the matron , taking up the sugar basin . 
'Very sweet , indeed , ma'am , replied Mr. Bumble . 
He fixed his eyes on Mrs. Corney as he said this and if ever a beadle looked tender , Mr. Bumble was that beadle at that moment . 
The tea was made , and handed in silence . 
'They're SO happy , SO frolicsome , and SO cheerful , that they are quite companions for me . 
'Very nice animals , ma'am , replied Mr. Bumble , approvingly 'so very domestic . 
'Oh , yes ! rejoined the matron with enthusiasm 'so fond of their home too , that it's quite a pleasure , I'm sure . 
'Oh , Mr. Bumble ! remonstrated Mrs. Corney . 
'Then you're a cruel man , said the matron vivaciously , as she held out her hand for the beadle's cup 'and a very hard hearted man besides . 
'Hard hearted , ma'am ? said Mr. Bumble . 
should be the sternest and most inflexible among them all . 
Indeed , the two chairs touched and when they did so , Mr. Bumble stopped . 
she remained where she was , and handed Mr. Bumble another cup of tea . 
Bumble ! cried that discreet lady in a whisper for the fright was so great , that she had quite lost her voice , 'Mr . 
Bumble , I shall scream ! Mr. Bumble made no reply but in a slow and dignified manner , put his arm round the matron's waist . 
'If you please , mistress , said a withered old female pauper , hideously ugly putting her head in at the door , 'Old Sally is a going fast . 
'Well , what's that to me ? angrily demanded the matron . 
'I can't keep her alive , can I ? 'No , no , mistress , replied the old woman , 'nobody can she's far beyond the reach of help . 
I've seen a many people die little babes and great strong men and I know when death's a coming , well enough . 
She'll never die quiet till you come , mistress . 
Bidding the messenger walk fast , and not be all night hobbling up the stairs , she followed her from the room with a very ill grace , scolding all the way . 
Mr. Bumble's conduct on being left to himself , was rather inexplicable . 
CHAPTER XXIV TREATS ON A VERY POOR SUBJECT . 
BUT IS A SHORT ONE , AND MAY BE FOUND OF IMPORTANCE IN THIS HISTORY It was no unfit messanger of death , who had disturbed the quiet of the matron's room . 
It was a bare garret room , with a dim light burning at the farther end . 
There was another old woman watching by the bed the parish apothecary's apprentice was standing by the fire , making a toothpick out of a quill . 
'Cold night , Mrs. Corney , said this young gentleman , as the matron entered . 
'Very cold , indeed , sir , replied the mistress , in her most civil tones , and dropping a curtsey as she spoke . 
'They're the board's choosing , sir , returned the matron . 
'The least they could do , would be to keep us pretty warm for our places are hard enough . 
The conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick woman . 
'Oh ! said the young mag , turning his face towards the bed , as if he had previously quite forgotten the patient , 'it's all U. P. there , Mrs. Corney . 
'It is , is it , sir ? asked the matron . 
'If she lasts a couple of hours , I shall be surprised . 
said the apothecary's apprentice , intent upon the toothpick's point . 
'It's a break up of the system altogether . 
Is she dozing , old lady ? The attendant stooped over the bed , to ascertain and nodded in the affirmative . 
'Then perhaps she'll go off in that way , if you don't make a row , said the young man . 
'Put the light on the floor . 
She won't see it there . 
The mistress , with an expression of impatience , wrapped herself in her shawl , and sat at the foot of the bed . 
The flame threw a ghastly light on their shrivelled faces , and made their ugliness appear terrible , as , in this position , they began to converse in a low voice . 
'Did she say any more , Anny dear , while I was gone ? inquired the messenger . 
'Not a word , replied the other . 
'She plucked and tore at her arms for a little time but I held her hands , and she soon dropped off . 
She hasn't much strength in her , so I easily kept her quiet . 
'I tried to get it down , rejoined the other . 
'But her teeth were tight set , and she clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again . 
'I mind the time , said the first speaker , 'when she would have done the same , and made rare fun of it afterwards . 
'Ay , that she would , rejoined the other 'she had a merry heart . 
A many , many , beautiful corpses she laid out , as nice and neat as waxwork . 
My old eyes have seen them ay , and those old hands touched them too for I have helped her , scores of times . 
'We have none of us long to wait for Death . 
Patience , patience ! He'll be here soon enough for us all . 
'Hold your tongue , you doting idiot ! said the matron sternly . 
'You , Martha , tell me has she been in this way before ? 'Often , answered the first woman . 
It's no part of my duty to see all the old women in the house die , and I won't that's more . 
Mind that , you impudent old harridans . 
The patient had raised herself upright , and was stretching her arms towards them . 
'Who's that ? she cried , in a hollow voice . 
'Hush , hush ! said one of the women , stooping over her . 
'Lie down , lie down ! 'I'll never lie down again alive ! said the woman , struggling . 
'I WILL tell her ! Come here ! Nearer ! Let me whisper in your ear . 
'Now listen to me , said the dying woman aloud , as if making a great effort to revive one latent spark of energy . 
She gave birth to a boy , and died . 
'IT ! replied the woman , laying her hand over the other's mouth . 
'The only thing she had . 
She wanted clothes to keep her warm , and food to eat but she had kept it safe , and had it in her bosom . 
It was gold , I tell you ! Rich gold , that might have saved her life ! 'Gold ! echoed the matron , bending eagerly over the woman as she fell back . 
Poor girl ! poor girl ! She was so young , too ! Such a gentle lamb ! Wait there's more to tell . 
'They CALLED him Oliver , replied the woman , feebly . 
'The gold I stole was 'Yes , yes what ? cried the other . 
'Stone dead ! said one of the old women , hurrying in as soon as the door was opened . 
'And nothing to tell , after all , rejoined the matron , walking carelessly away . 
The two crones , to all appearance , too busily occupied in the preparations for their dreadful duties to make any reply , were left alone , hovering about the body . 
CHAPTER XXV WHEREIN THIS HISTORY REVERTS TO MR . 
It being a cold night , the Dodger wore his hat , as , indeed , was often his custom within doors . 
'That's two doubles and the rub , said Mr. Chitling , with a very long face , as he drew half a crown from his waistcoat pocket . 
'I never see such a feller as you , Jack you win everything . 
Even when we've good cards , Charley and I can't make nothing of 'em . 
'Matter , Fagin ! cried Charley . 
'I wish you had watched the play . 
Tommy Chitling hasn't won a point and I went partners with him against the Artfull and dumb . 
'Ay , ay ! said the Jew , with a grin , which sufficiently demonstrated that he was at no loss to understand the reason . 
'Try 'em again , Tom try 'em again . 
'No more of it for me , thank 'ee , Fagin , replied Mr. Chitling 'I've had enough . 
That 'ere Dodger has such a run of luck that there's no standing again' him . 
'Ha ! ha ! my dear , replied the Jew , 'you must get up very early in the morning , to win against the Dodger . 
Mr. Dawkins received these handsome compliments with much philosophy , and offered to cut any gentleman in company , for the first picture card , at a shilling at a time . 
'How precious dull you are , Tommy ! said the Dodger , stopping short when there had been a long silence and addressing Mr. Chitling . 
'What do you think he's thinking of , Fagin ? 'How should I know , my dear ? replied the Jew , looking round as he plied the bellows . 
'What do YOU say , Charley ? I should say , replied Master Bates , with a grin , 'that he was uncommon sweet upon Betsy . 
he lay at full length until his laugh was over , when he resumed his former position , and began another laugh . 
'Never mind him , my dear , said the Jew , winking at Mr. Dawkins , and giving Master Bates a reproving tap with the nozzle of the bellows . 
Stick up to her , Tom . 
'What I mean to say , Fagin , replied Mr. Chitling , very red in the face , 'is , that that isn't anything to anybody here . 
'No more it is , replied the Jew 'Charley will talk . 
Don't mind him , my dear don't mind him . 
Do as she bids you , Tom , and you will make your fortune . 
'So I DO do as she bids me , replied Mr. Chitling 'I shouldn't have been milled , if it hadn't been for her advice . 
Ah ! Who'll say as much as that , I should like to know eh , Fagin ? 'Nobody , my dear , replied the Jew 'not a soul , Tom . 
I don't know one of 'em that would do it besides you not one of 'em , my dear . 
'I might have got clear off , if I'd split upon her mightn't I , Fagin ? angrily pursued the poor half witted dupe . 
'A word from me would have done it wouldn't it , Fagin ? 'To be sure it would , my dear , replied the Jew . 
'But I didn't blab it did I , Fagin ? demanded Tom , pouring question upon question with great volubility . 
'No , no , to be sure , replied the Jew 'you were too stout hearted for that . 
'Hark ! cried the Dodger at this moment , 'I heard the tinkler . 
Catching up the light , he crept softly upstairs . 
The bell was rung again , with some impatience , while the party were in darkness . 
After a short pause , the Dodger reappeared , and whispered Fagin mysteriously . 
Having performed this friendly office , he fixed his eyes on the Jew's face , and awaited his directions . 
The old man bit his yellow fingers , and meditated for some seconds his face working with agitation the while , as if he dreaded something , and feared to know the worst . 
At length he raised his head . 
'Where is he ? he asked . 
The Dodger pointed to the floor above , and made a gesture , as if to leave the room . 
'Yes , said the Jew , answering the mute inquiry 'bring him down . 
Hush ! Quiet , Charley ! Gently , Tom ! Scarce , scarce ! This brief direction to Charley Bates , and his recent antagonist , was softly and immediately obeyed . 
'How are you , Faguey ? said this worthy , nodding to the Jew . 
With these words he pulled up the smock frock and , winding it round his middle , drew a chair to the fire , and placed his feet upon the hob . 
To judge from appearances , Toby was by no means in a hurry to open the conversation . 
At first , the Jew contented himself with patiently watching his countenance , as if to gain from its expression some clue to the intelligence he brought but in vain . 
Then the Jew , in an agony of impatience , watched every morsel he put into his mouth pacing up and down the room , meanwhile , in irrepressible excitement . 
It was all of no use . 
'First and foremost , Faguey , said Toby . 
'Yes , yes ! interposed the Jew , drawing up his chair . 
'First and foremost , Faguey , said the housebreaker , 'how's Bill ? 'What ! screamed the Jew , starting from his seat . 
'Why , you don't mean to say began Toby , turning pale . 
'Mean ! cried the Jew , stamping furiously on the ground . 
'I know it , replied the Jew , tearing a newspaper from his pocket and pointing to it . 
'What more ? 'They fired and hit the boy . 
We cut over the fields at the back , with him between us straight as the crow flies through hedge and ditch . 
Damme ! the whole country was awake , and the dogs upon us . 
'The boy ! 'Bill had him on his back , and scudded like the wind . 
We stopped to take him between us his head hung down , and he was cold . 
They were close upon our heels every man for himself , and each from the gallows ! We parted company , and left the youngster lying in a ditch . 
Alive or dead , that's all I know about him . 
The Jew stopped to hear no more but uttering a loud yell , and twining his hands in his hair , rushed from the room , and from the house . 
Avoiding , as much as was possible , all the main streets , and skulking only through the by ways and alleys , he at length emerged on Snow Hill . 
In its filthy shops are exposed for sale huge bunches of second hand silk handkerchiefs , of all sizes and patterns for here reside the traders who purchase them from pick pockets . 
Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows or flaunting from the door posts and the shelves , within , are piled with them . 
Confined as the limits of Field Lane are , it has its barber , its coffee shop , its beer shop , and its fried fish warehouse . 
It was into this place that the Jew turned . 
'Why , the sight of you , Mr. Fagin , would cure the hoptalymy ! said this respectable trader , in acknowledgment of the Jew's inquiry after his health . 
'The neighbourhood was a little too hot , Lively , said Fagin , elevating his eyebrows , and crossing his hands upon his shoulders . 
Pointing in the direction of Saffron Hill , he inquired whether any one was up yonder to night . 
'At the Cripples ? inquired the man . 
'Let me see , pursued the merchant , reflecting . 
'Yes , there's some half dozen of 'em gone in , that I knows . 
I don't think your friend's there . 
'Sikes is not , I suppose ? inquired the Jew , with a disappointed countenance . 
'Non istwentus , as the lawyers say , replied the little man , shaking his head , and looking amazingly sly . 
'Have you got anything in my line to night ? 'Nothing to night , said the Jew , turning away . 
'Are you going up to the Cripples , Fagin ? cried the little man , calling after him . 
The room was illuminated by two gas lights the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters , and closely drawn curtains of faded red , from being visible outside . 
It was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group . 
Fagin , troubled by no grave emotions , looked eagerly from face to face while these proceedings were in progress but apparently without meeting that of which he was in search . 
'What can I do for you , Mr. Fagin ? inquired the man , as he followed him out to the landing . 
'Won't you join us ? They'll be delighted , every one of 'em . 
The Jew shook his head impatiently , and said in a whisper , 'Is HE here ? 'No , replied the man . 
'And no news of Barney ? inquired Fagin . 
'None , replied the landlord of the Cripples for it was he . 
'He won't stir till it's all safe . 
Depend on it , they're on the scent down there and that if he moved , he'd blow upon the thing at once . 
He's all right enough , Barney is , else I should have heard of him . 
I'll pound it , that Barney's managing properly . 
Let him alone for that . 
'Will HE be here to night ? asked the Jew , laying the same emphasis on the pronoun as before . 
'Monks , do you mean ? inquired the landlord , hesitating . 
'Hush ! said the Jew . 
'Certain , replied the man , drawing a gold watch from his fob 'I expected him here before now . 
'Tell him I came here to see him and that he must come to me to night . 
No , say to morrow . 
As he is not here , to morrow will be time enough . 
'Good ! said the man . 
'Nothing more ? 'Not a word now , said the Jew , descending the stairs . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! The landlord reciprocated the old man's laugh and returned to his guests . 
The Jew was no sooner alone , than his countenance resumed its former expression of anxiety and thought . 
After a brief reflection , he called a hack cabriolet , and bade the man drive towards Bethnal Green . 
He dismissed him within some quarter of a mile of Mr. Sikes's residence , and performed the short remainder of the distance , on foot . 
She was in her room , the woman said . 
Fagin crept softly upstairs , and entered it without any previous ceremony . 
The girl was alone lying with her head upon the table , and her hair straggling over it . 
'She has been drinking , thought the Jew , cooly , 'or perhaps she is only miserable . 
The old man turned to close the door , as he made this reflection the noise thus occasioned , roused the girl . 
She eyed his crafty face narrowly , as she inquired to his recital of Toby Crackit's story . 
When it was concluded , she sank into her former attitude , but spoke not a word . 
She pushed the candle impatiently away and once or twice as she feverishly changed her position , shuffled her feet upon the ground but this was all . 
During the silence , the Jew looked restlessly about the room , as if to assure himself that there were no appearances of Sikes having covertly returned . 
'And the boy , too , said the Jew , straining his eyes to catch a glimpse of her face . 
'What ! cried the Jew , in amazement . 
'Ay , I do , returned the girl , meeting his gaze . 
'I shall be glad to have him away from my eyes , and to know that the worst is over . 
I can't bear to have him about me . 
The sight of him turns me against myself , and all of you . 
'Pooh ! said the Jew , scornfully . 
'Am I ? cried the girl bitterly . 
'Change it , then ! responded the girl , with a laugh . 
Listen to me , who with six words , can strangle Sikes as surely as if I had his bull's throat between my fingers now . 
And do it the moment he sets foot in this room , or mind me , it will be too late ! 'What is all this ? cried the girl involuntarily . 
'What is it ? pursued Fagin , mad with rage . 
After a short silence , he ventured to look round at his companion . 
He appeared somewhat reassured , on beholding her in the same listless attitude from which he had first roused her . 
'Nancy , dear ! croaked the Jew , in his usual voice . 
'Did you mind me , dear ? 'Don't worry me now , Fagin ! replied the girl , raising her head languidly . 
'If Bill has not done it this time , he will another . 
He has done many a good job for you , and will do many more when he can and when he can't he won't so no more about that . 
'Regarding this boy , my dear ? said the Jew , rubbing the palms of his hands nervously together . 
And if Toby got clear off , Bill's pretty sure to be safe for Bill's worth two of Toby any time . 
'And about what I was saying , my dear ? observed the Jew , keeping his glistening eye steadily upon her . 
'Your must say it all over again , if it's anything you want me to do , rejoined Nancy 'and if it is , you had better wait till to morrow . 
You put me up for a minute but now I'm stupid again . 
It was within an hour of midnight . 
The weather being dark , and piercing cold , he had no great temptation to loiter . 
It blew from the right quarter for the Jew , however , and straight before it he went trembling , and shivering , as every fresh gust drove him rudely on his way . 
'Fagin ! whispered a voice close to his ear . 
'Ah ! said the Jew , turning quickly round , 'is that 'Yes ! interrupted the stranger . 
'I have been lingering here these two hours . 
Where the devil have you been ? 'On your business , my dear , replied the Jew , glancing uneasily at his companion , and slackening his pace as he spoke . 
'On your business all night . 
'Oh , of course ! said the stranger , with a sneer . 
'Well and what's come of it ? 'Nothing good , said the Jew . 
'Nothing bad , I hope ? said the stranger , stopping short , and turning a startled look on his companion . 
'It's as dark as the grave , said the man , groping forward a few steps . 
'Make haste ! 'Shut the door , whispered Fagin from the end of the passage . 
As he spoke , it closed with a loud noise . 
'That wasn't my doing , said the other man , feeling his way . 
'The wind blew it to , or it shut of its own accord one or the other . 
Look sharp with the light , or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole . 
Fagin stealthily descended the kitchen stairs . 
Beckoning the man to follow him , he led the way upstairs . 
There ! With those words , the Jew , stooping down , placed the candle on an upper flight of stairs , exactly opposite to the room door . 
Upon this piece of furniture , the stranger sat himself with the air of a weary man and the Jew , drawing up the arm chair opposite , they sat face to face . 
It was not quite dark the door was partially open and the candle outside , threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall . 
They conversed for some time in whispers . 
Why not have kept him here among the rest , and made a sneaking , snivelling pickpocket of him at once ? 'Only hear him ! exclaimed the Jew , shrugging his shoulders . 
'Why , do you mean to say you couldn't have done it , if you had chosen ? demanded Monks , sternly . 
'But not mine , said the Jew , submissively . 
'He might have become of use to me . 
When there are two parties to a bargain , it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted is it , my good friend ? 'What then ? demanded Monks . 
'I saw it was not easy to train him to the business , replied the Jew 'he was not like other boys in the same circumstances . 
'Curse him , no ! muttered the man , 'or he would have been a thief , long ago . 
'I had no hold upon him to make him worse , pursued the Jew , anxiously watching the countenance of his companion . 
'His hand was not in . 
I had nothing to frighten him with which we always must have in the beginning , or we labour in vain . 
What could I do ? Send him out with the Dodger and Charley ? We had enough of that , at first , my dear I trembled for us all . 
'THAT was not my doing , observed Monks . 
'No , no , my dear ! renewed the Jew . 
Well ! I got him back for you by means of the girl and then SHE begins to favour him . 
'Throttle the girl ! said Monks , impatiently . 
I know what these girls are , Monks , well . 
As soon as the boy begins to harden , she'll care no more for him , than for a block of wood . 
You want him made a thief . 
Fagin ! I had no hand in it . 
Anything but his death , I told you from the first . 
I won't shed blood it's always found out , and haunts a man besides . 
'Where ? 'Yonder ! replied the man , glaring at the opposite wall . 
The candle , wasted by the draught , was standing where it had been placed . 
It showed them only the empty staircase , and their own white faces . 
They listened intently a profound silence reigned throughout the house . 
'It's your fancy , said the Jew , taking up the light and turning to his companion . 
'I'll swear I saw it ! replied Monks , trembling . 
'It was bending forward when I saw it first and when I spoke , it darted away . 
The Jew glanced contemptuously at the pale face of his associate , and , telling him he could follow , if he pleased , ascended the stairs . 
They looked into all the rooms they were cold , bare , and empty . 
They descended into the passage , and thence into the cellars below . 
The green damp hung upon the low walls the tracks of the snail and slug glistened in the light of the candle but all was still as death . 
'What do you think now ? said the Jew , when they had regained the passage . 
'Besides ourselves , there's not a creature in the house except Toby and the boys and they're safe enough . 
This accumulated testimony effectually staggered Mr. Monks . 
He declined any renewal of the conversation , however , for that night suddenly remembering that it was past one o'clock . 
And so the amiable couple parted . 
great virtues , imperatively claim at his hands . 
, lay the remotest sustainable claim . 
'Then DON'T think of it , ma'am , rejoined Mr. Bumble . 
'I can't help it , whimpered the lady . 
'Then take something , ma'am , said Mr. Bumble soothingly . 
'A little of the wine ? 'Not for the world ! replied Mrs. Corney . 
'I'm better now , said Mrs. Corney , falling back , after drinking half of it . 
Mr. Bumble raised his eyes piously to the ceiling in thankfulness and , bringing them down again to the brim of the cup , lifted it to his nose . 
'Peppermint , exclaimed Mrs. Corney , in a faint voice , smiling gently on the beadle as she spoke . 
'Try it ! There's a little a little something else in it . 
Mr. Bumble tasted the medicine with a doubtful look smacked his lips took another taste and put the cup down empty . 
'It's very comforting , said Mrs. Corney . 
'Very much so indeed , ma'am , said the beadle . 
As he spoke , he drew a chair beside the matron , and tenderly inquired what had happened to distress her . 
'Nothing , replied Mrs. Corney . 
'I am a foolish , excitable , weak creetur . 
'Not weak , ma'am , retorted Mr. Bumble , drawing his chair a little closer . 
'Are you a weak creetur , Mrs. Corney ? 'We are all weak creeturs , said Mrs. Corney , laying down a general principle . 
'So we are , said the beadle . 
Nothing was said on either side , for a minute or two afterwards . 
'We are all weak creeturs , said Mr. Bumble . 
'Don't sigh , Mrs. Corney , said Mr. Bumble . 
'I can't help it , said Mrs. Corney . 
'This is a very comfortable room , ma'am , said Mr. Bumble looking round . 
'Another room , and this , ma'am , would be a complete thing . 
'It would be too much for one , murmured the lady . 
'But not for two , ma'am , rejoined Mr. Bumble , in soft accents . 
'Eh , Mrs. Corney ? Mrs. Corney drooped her head , when the beadle said this the beadle drooped his , to get a view of Mrs. Corney's face . 
Mrs. Corney , with great propriety , turned her head away , and released her hand to get at her pocket handkerchief but insensibly replaced it in that of Mr. Bumble . 
'The board allows you coals , don't they , Mrs. Corney ? inquired the beadle , affectionately pressing her hand . 
'And candles , replied Mrs. Corney , slightly returning the pressure . 
'Coals , candles , and house rent free , said Mr. Bumble . 
'Oh , Mrs. Corney , what an Angel you are ! The lady was not proof against this burst of feeling . 
She sank into Mr. Bumble's arms and that gentleman in his agitation , imprinted a passionate kiss upon her chaste nose . 
'Such porochial perfection ! exclaimed Mr. Bumble , rapturously . 
'You know that Mr. Slout is worse to night , my fascinator ? 'Yes , replied Mrs. Corney , bashfully . 
'He can't live a week , the doctor says , pursued Mr. Bumble . 
'He is the master of this establishment his death will cause a wacancy that wacancy must be filled up . 
Oh , Mrs. Corney , what a prospect this opens ! What a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings ! Mrs. Corney sobbed . 
'The little word ? said Mr. Bumble , bending over the bashful beauty . 
'The one little , little , little word , my blessed Corney ? 'Ye ye yes ! sighed out the matron . 
'One more , pursued the beadle 'compose your darling feelings for only one more . 
When is it to come off ? Mrs. Corney twice essayed to speak and twice failed . 
While it was being disposed of , she acquainted Mr. Bumble with the old woman's decease . 
'Very good , said that gentleman , sipping his peppermint 'I'll call at Sowerberry's as I go home , and tell him to send to morrow morning . 
Was it that as frightened you , love ? 'It wasn't anything particular , dear , said the lady evasively . 
'It must have been something , love , urged Mr. Bumble . 
'Won't you tell your own B. ? 'Not now , rejoined the lady 'one of these days . 
After we're married , dear . 
'After we're married ! exclaimed Mr. Bumble . 
'It wasn't any impudence from any of them male paupers as 'No , no , love ! interposed the lady , hastily . 
'They had better not ! said Mr. Bumble , clenching his fist . 
The cloth was laid for supper the table was covered with bread and butter , plates and glasses a porter pot and a wine bottle . 
Close beside him stood Charlotte , opening oysters from a barrel which Mr. Claypole condescended to swallow , with remarkable avidity . 
'Here's a delicious fat one , Noah , dear ! said Charlotte 'try him , do only this one . 
'What a delicious thing is a oyster ! remarked Mr. Claypole , after he had swallowed it . 
'What a pity it is , a number of 'em should ever make you feel uncomfortable isn't it , Charlotte ? 'It's quite a cruelty , said Charlotte . 
'So it is , acquiesced Mr. Claypole . 
'An't yer fond of oysters ? 'Not overmuch , replied Charlotte . 
'I like to see you eat 'em , Noah dear , better than eating 'em myself . 
'Lor ! said Noah , reflectively 'how queer ! 'Have another , said Charlotte . 
'Here's one with such a beautiful , delicate beard ! 'I can't manage any more , said Noah . 
Come here , Charlotte , and I'll kiss yer . 
'What ! said Mr. Bumble , bursting into the room . 
'Say that again , sir . 
Charlotte uttered a scream , and hid her face in her apron . 
Mr. Claypole , without making any further change in his position than suffering his legs to reach the ground , gazed at the beadle in drunken terror . 
'Say it again , you wile , owdacious fellow ! said Mr. Bumble . 
'How dare you mention such a thing , sir ? And how dare you encourage him , you insolent minx ? Kiss her ! exclaimed Mr. Bumble , in strong indignation . 
'Faugh ! 'I didn't mean to do it ! said Noah , blubbering . 
'She's always a kissing of me , whether I like it , or not . 
'Oh , Noah , cried Charlotte , reproachfully . 
'Yer are yer know yer are ! retorted Noah . 
'Take yourself downstairs , ma'am . 
Do you hear sir ? Kissing ! cried Mr. Bumble , holding up his hands . 
CHAPTER XXVIII LOOKS AFTER OLIVER , AND PROCEEDS WITH HIS ADVENTURES 'Wolves tear your throats ! muttered Sikes , grinding his teeth . 
'I wish I was among some of you you'd howl the hoarser for it . 
'Stop , you white livered hound ! cried the robber , shouting after Toby Crackit , who , making the best use of his long legs , was already ahead . 
'Stop ! The repetition of the word , brought Toby to a dead stand still . 
For he was not quite satisfied that he was beyond the range of pistol shot and Sikes was in no mood to be played with . 
'Bear a hand with the boy , cried Sikes , beckoning furiously to his confederate . 
'Come back ! Toby made a show of returning but ventured , in a low voice , broken for want of breath , to intimate considerable reluctance as he came slowly along . 
'Quicker ! cried Sikes , laying the boy in a dry ditch at his feet , and drawing a pistol from his pocket . 
'Don't play booty with me . 
At this moment the noise grew louder . 
'It's all up , Bill ! cried Toby 'drop the kid , and show 'em your heels . 
'Ho , ho , there ! cried a tremulous voice in the rear . 
Three men , who had by this time advanced some distance into the field , stopped to take counsel together . 
'My advice , or , leastways , I should say , my ORDERS , is , said the fattest man of the party , 'that we 'mediately go home again . 
'I shouldn't wish to appear ill mannered , gentlemen , said the third , who had called the dogs back , 'Mr . 
'Certainly , replied the shorter man 'and whatever Mr. Giles says , it isn't our place to contradict him . 
No , no , I know my sitiwation ! Thank my stars , I know my sitiwation . 
'You are afraid , Brittles , said Mr. Giles . 
'I an't , said Brittles . 
'You are , said Giles . 
'You're a falsehood , Mr. Giles , said Brittles . 
'You're a lie , Brittles , said Mr. Giles . 
The third man brought the dispute to a close , most philosophically . 
'I'll tell you what it is , gentlemen , said he , 'we're all afraid . 
'Speak for yourself , sir , said Mr. Giles , who was the palest of the party . 
'So I do , replied the man . 
'It's natural and proper to be afraid , under such circumstances . 
'So am I , said Brittles 'only there's no call to tell a man he is , so bounceably . 
most handsomely insisted on stopping , to make an apology for his hastiness of speech . 
'But it's wonderful , said Mr. Giles , when he had explained , 'what a man will do , when his blood is up . 
I should have committed murder I know I should if we'd caught one of them rascals . 
'I know what it was , said Mr. Giles 'it was the gate . 
'I shouldn't wonder if it was , exclaimed Brittles , catching at the idea . 
'You may depend upon it , said Giles , 'that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement . 
I felt all mine suddenly going away , as I was climbing over it . 
By a remarkable coincidence , the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sensation at that precise moment . 
The air grew colder , as day came slowly on and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke . 
The grass was wet the pathways , and low places , were all mire and water the damp breath of an unwholesome wind went languidly by , with a hollow moaning . 
Still , Oliver lay motionless and insensible on the spot where Sikes had left him . 
The air become more sharp and piercing , as its first dull hue the death of night , rather than the birth of day glimmered faintly in the sky . 
The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the darkness , grew more and more defined , and gradually resolved into their familiar shapes . 
The rain came down , thick and fast , and pattered noisily among the leafless bushes . 
But , Oliver felt it not , as it beat against him for he still lay stretched , helpless and unconscious , on his bed of clay . 
At length , a low cry of pain broke the stillness that prevailed and uttering it , the boy awoke . 
His left arm , rudely bandaged in a shawl , hung heavy and useless at his side the bandage was saturated with blood . 
He was so weak , that he could scarcely raise himself into a sitting posture when he had done so , he looked feebly round for help , and groaned with pain . 
Trembling in every joint , from cold and exhaustion , he made an effort to stand upright but , shuddering from head to foot , fell prostrate on the ground . 
His head was dizzy , and he staggered to and from like a drunken man . 
But he kept up , nevertheless , and , with his head drooping languidly on his breast , went stumbling onward , he knew not whither . 
And now , hosts of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on his mind . 
Then , he was alone with Sikes , plodding on as on the previous day and as shadowy people passed them , he felt the robber's grasp upon his wrist . 
Through all these rapid visions , there ran an undefined , uneasy conscious of pain , which wearied and tormented him incessantly . 
Thus he staggered on , creeping , almost mechanically , between the bars of gates , or through hedge gaps as they came in his way , until he reached a road . 
Here the rain began to fall so heavily , that it roused him . 
He looked about , and saw that at no great distance there was a house , which perhaps he could reach . 
He summoned up all his strength for one last trial , and bent his faltering steps towards it . 
As he drew nearer to this house , a feeling come over him that he had seen it before . 
He remembered nothing of its details but the shape and aspect of the building seemed familiar to him . 
That garden wall ! On the grass inside , he had fallen on his knees last night , and prayed the two men's mercy . 
It was the very house they had attempted to rob . 
Oliver felt such fear come over him when he recognised the place , that , for the instant , he forgot the agony of his wound , and thought only of flight . 
He tottered across the lawn climbed the steps knocked faintly at the door and , his whole strength failing him , sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico . 
I fancied I heerd a noise . 
At this point of the narrative the cook turned pale , and asked the housemaid to shut the door who asked Brittles , who asked the tinker , who pretended not to hear . 
Heerd a noise , continued Mr. Giles . 
'I says , at first , This is illusion and was composing myself off to sleep , when I heerd the noise again , distinct . 
'What sort of a noise ? asked the cook . 
'A kind of a busting noise , replied Mr. Giles , looking round him . 
'More like the noise of powdering a iron bar on a nutmeg grater , suggested Brittles . 
'It was , when you HEERD it , sir , rejoined Mr. Giles 'but , at this time , it had a busting sound . 
I turned down the clothes' continued Giles , rolling back the table cloth , 'sat up in bed and listened . 
The cook and housemaid simultaneously ejaculated 'Lor ! and drew their chairs closer together . 
'I heerd it now , quite apparent , resumed Mr. Giles . 
Brittles , I says , when I had woke him , don't be frightened ! 'So you did , observed Brittles , in a low voice . 
We're dead men , I think , Brittles , I says , continued Giles but don't be frightened . 
'WAS he frightened ? asked the cook . 
'Not a bit of it , replied Mr. Giles . 
'He was as firm ah ! pretty near as firm as I was . 
'I should have died at once , I'm sure , if it had been me , observed the housemaid . 
'You're a woman , retorted Brittles , plucking up a little . 
'Brittles is right , said Mr. Giles , nodding his head , approvingly 'from a woman , nothing else was to be expected . 
We , being men , took a dark lantern that was standing on Brittle's hob , and groped our way downstairs in the pitch dark , as it might be so . 
The cook and housemaid screamed . 
'It was a knock , said Mr. Giles , assuming perfect serenity . 
'Open the door , somebody . 
Mr. Giles directed an appealing glance at the tinker but he had suddenly fallen asleep . 
The women were out of the question . 
'If Brittles would rather open the door , in the presence of witnesses , said Mr. Giles , after a short silence , 'I am ready to make one . 
'So am I , said the tinker , waking up , as suddenly as he had fallen asleep . 
that it was now broad day , took their way upstairs with the dogs in front . 
The two women , who were afraid to stay below , brought up the rear . 
, and gave the word of command to open the door . 
'A boy ! exclaimed Mr. Giles , valiantly , pushing the tinker into the background . 
lugged him straight into the hall , and deposited him at full length on the floor thereof . 
In a lantern , miss , cried Brittles , applying one hand to the side of his mouth , so that his voice might travel the better . 
In the midst of all this noise and commotion , there was heard a sweet female voice , which quelled it in an instant . 
'Giles ! whispered the voice from the stair head . 
'I'm here , miss , replied Mr. Giles . 
'Don't be frightened , miss I ain't much injured . 
He didn't make a very desperate resistance , miss ! I was soon too many for him . 
'Hush ! replied the young lady 'you frighten my aunt as much as the thieves did . 
Is the poor creature much hurt ? 'Wounded desperate , miss , replied Giles , with indescribable complacency . 
'He looks as if he was a going , miss , bawled Brittles , in the same manner as before . 
'Wouldn't you like to come and look at him , miss , in case he should ? 'Hush , pray there's a good man ! rejoined the lady . 
'Wait quietly only one instant , while I speak to aunt . 
With a footstep as soft and gentle as the voice , the speaker tripped away . 
'Not one little peep , miss ? 'Not now , for the world , replied the young lady . 
Then , bending over Oliver , he helped to carry him upstairs , with the care and solicitude of a woman . 
Mr. Giles , dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black , was in attendance upon them . 
Of the two ladies , one was well advanced in years but the high backed oaken chair in which she sat , was not more upright than she . 
were attentively upon her young companion . 
She was not past seventeen . 
Cast in so slight and exquisite a mould so mild and gentle so pure and beautiful that earth seemed not her element , nor its rough creatures her fit companions . 
She was busily engaged in the little offices of the table . 
'And Brittles has been gone upwards of an hour , has he ? asked the old lady , after a pause . 
'An hour and twelve minutes , ma'am , replied Mr. Giles , referring to a silver watch , which he drew forth by a black ribbon . 
'He is always slow , remarked the old lady . 
'Brittles always was a slow boy , ma'am , replied the attendant . 
And seeing , by the bye , that Brittles had been a slow boy for upwards of thirty years , there appeared no great probability of his ever being a fast one . 
'He gets worse instead of better , I think , said the elder lady . 
'It is very inexcusable in him if he stops to play with any other boys , said the young lady , smiling . 
'I never heard of such a thing ! exclaimed the fat gentleman . 
'You ought to be dead positively dead with the fright , said the fat gentleman . 
'Ah ! to be sure , replied the doctor , 'so there is . 
That was your handiwork , Giles , I understand . 
Mr. Giles , who had been feverishly putting the tea cups to rights , blushed very red , and said that he had had that honour . 
'Honour , eh ? said the doctor 'well , I don't know perhaps it's as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen , as to hit your man at twelve paces . 
Fancy that he fired in the air , and you've fought a duel , Giles . 
'Gad , that's true ! said the doctor . 
'Where is he ? Show me the way . 
I'll look in again , as I come down , Mrs. Maylie . 
The doctor was absent , much longer than either he or the ladies had anticipated . 
At length he returned and in reply to an anxious inquiry after his patient looked very mysterious , and closed the door , carefully . 
'This is a very extraordinary thing , Mrs. Maylie , said the doctor , standing with his back to the door , as if to keep it shut . 
'He is not in danger , I hope ? said the old lady . 
'Why , that would NOT be an extraordinary thing , under the circumstances , replied the doctor 'though I don't think he is . 
Have you seen the thief ? 'No , rejoined the old lady . 
'Nor heard anything about him ? 'No . 
'I beg your pardon , ma'am , interposed Mr. Giles 'but I was going to tell you about him when Doctor Losberne came in . 
The fact was , that Mr. Giles had not , at first , been able to bring his mind to the avowal , that he had only shot a boy . 
'Rose wished to see the man , said Mrs. Maylie , 'but I wouldn't hear of it . 
'Humph ! rejoined the doctor . 
'There is nothing very alarming in his appearance . 
Have you any objection to see him in my presence ? 'If it be necessary , replied the old lady , 'certainly not . 
'Then I think it is necessary , said the doctor 'at all events , I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so , if you postponed it . 
He is perfectly quiet and comfortable now . 
'Now , said the doctor , in a whisper , as he softly turned the handle of a bedroom door , 'let us hear what you think of him . 
He has not been shaved very recently , but he don't look at all ferocious notwithstanding . 
Stop , though ! Let me first see that he is in visiting order . 
Stepping before them , he looked into the room . 
Motioning them to advance , he closed the door when they had entered and gently drew back the curtains of the bed . 
The honest gentleman held the curtain in his hand , and looked on , for a minute or so , in silence . 
Whilst he was watching the patient thus , the younger lady glided softly past , and seating herself in a chair by the bedside , gathered Oliver's hair from his face . 
As she stooped over him , her tears fell upon his forehead . 
The boy stirred , and smiled in his sleep , as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection he had never known . 
'What can this mean ? exclaimed the elder lady . 
'My dear young lady , rejoined the surgeon , mournfully shaking his head 'crime , like death , is not confined to the old and withered alone . 
The youngest and fairest are too often its chosen victims . 
'But , can you oh ! can you really believe that this delicate boy has been the voluntary associate of the worst outcasts of society ? said Rose . 
Mr. Losberne thrust his hands into his pockets , and took several turns up and down the room often stopping , and balancing himself on his toes , and frowning frightfully . 
You don't object to that ? 'Unless there is some other way of preserving the child , replied Mrs. Maylie . 
'There is no other , said the doctor . 
'No other , take my word for it . 
'Then my aunt invests you with full power , said Rose , smiling through her tears 'but pray don't be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary . 
'You seem to think , retorted the doctor , 'that everybody is disposed to be hard hearted to day , except yourself , Miss Rose . 
'You are as great a boy as poor Brittles himself , returned Rose , blushing . 
'Well , said the doctor , laughing heartily , 'that is no very difficult matter . 
But to return to this boy . 
The great point of our agreement is yet to come . 
, he shall be left to his fate , without any farther interference on my part , at all events . 
'Oh no , aunt ! entreated Rose . 
'Oh yes , aunt ! said the doctor . 
'Is is a bargain ? 'He cannot be hardened in vice , said Rose 'It is impossible . 
'Very good , retorted the doctor 'then so much the more reason for acceding to my proposition . 
Finally the treaty was entered into and the parties thereunto sat down to wait , with some impatience , until Oliver should awake . 
The patience of the two ladies was destined to undergo a longer trial than Mr. Losberne had led them to expect for hour after hour passed on , and still Oliver slumbered heavily . 
It was evening , indeed , before the kind hearted doctor brought them the intelligence , that he was at length sufficiently restored to be spoken to . 
The conference was a long one . 
Oliver told them all his simple history , and was often compelled to stop , by pain and want of strength . 
He felt calm and happy , and could have died without a murmur . 
And finding nobody about the parlours , it occurred to him , that he could perhaps originate the proceedings with better effect in the kitchen so into the kitchen he went . 
'Sit still ! said the doctor , waving his hand . 
'Thank you , sir , said Mr. Giles . 
Brittles headed a low murmur , by which the ladies and gentlemen generally were understood to express the gratification they derived from Mr. Giles's condescension . 
Mr. Giles looked round with a patronising air , as much as to say that so long as they behaved properly , he would never desert them . 
'How is the patient to night , sir ? asked Giles . 
'So so' returned the doctor . 
'I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there , Mr. Giles . 
'I hope you don't mean to say , sir , said Mr. Giles , trembling , 'that he's going to die . 
If I thought it , I should never be happy again . 
I wouldn't cut a boy off no , not even Brittles here not for all the plate in the county , sir . 
'That's not the point , said the doctor , mysteriously . 
Giles , are you a Protestant ? 'Yes , sir , I hope so , faltered Mr. Giles , who had turned very pale . 
'And what are YOU , boy ? said the doctor , turning sharply upon Brittles . 
'Lord bless me , sir ! replied Brittles , starting violently 'I'm the same as Mr. Giles , sir . 
'Something may come of this before long . 
The constable looked as wise as he could , and took up his staff of office which had been recling indolently in the chimney corner . 
'It's a simple question of identity , you will observe , said the doctor . 
Now , the question is , whether these men are justified by the fact if not , in what situation do they place themselves ? The constable nodded profoundly . 
He said , if that wasn't law , he would be glad to know what was . 
'It's the runners ! cried Brittles , to all appearance much relieved . 
'The what ? exclaimed the doctor , aghast in his turn . 
'The Bow Street officers , sir , replied Brittles , taking up a candle 'me and Mr. Giles sent for 'em this morning . 
'What ? cried the doctor . 
'Yes , replied Brittles 'I sent a message up by the coachman , and I only wonder they weren't here before , sir . 
'You did , did you ? Then confound your slow coaches down here that's all , said the doctor , walking away . 
'Open the door , replied a man outside 'it's the officers from Bow Street , as was sent to to day . 
'Just send somebody out to relieve my mate , will you , young man ? said the officer 'he's in the gig , a minding the prad . 
This done , they returned to the house , and , being shown into a parlour , took off their great coats and hats , and showed like what they were . 
The other was a red headed , bony man , in top boots with a rather ill favoured countenance , and a turned up sinister looking nose . 
'Tell your governor that Blathers and Duff is here , will you ? said the stouter man , smoothing down his hair , and laying a pair of handcuffs on the table . 
'Oh ! Good evening , master . 
'This is the lady of the house , said Mr. Losberne , motioning towards Mrs. Maylie . 
Mr. Blathers made a bow . 
Being desired to sit down , he put his hat on the floor , and taking a chair , motioned to Duff to do the same . 
'Now , with regard to this here robbery , master , said Blathers . 
'What are the circumstances ? Mr. Losberne , who appeared desirous of gaining time , recounted them at great length , and with much circumlocution . 
Blathers and Duff looked very knowing meanwhile , and occasionally exchanged a nod . 
'That's it , master , replied Blathers . 
'This is all about the robbery , is it ? 'All , replied the doctor . 
'Now , what is this , about this here boy that the servants are a talking on ? said Blathers . 
'Nothing at all , replied the doctor . 
'One of the frightened servants chose to take it into his head , that he had something to do with this attempt to break into the house but it's nonsense sheer absurdity . 
'Wery easy disposed of , if it is , remarked Duff . 
'What he says is quite correct , observed Blathers , nodding his head in a confirmatory way , and playing carelessly with the handcuffs , as if they were a pair of castanets . 
'I know his whole history but we can talk about that presently . 
You would like , first , to see the place where the thieves made their attempt , I suppose ? 'Certainly , rejoined Mr. Blathers . 
'We had better inspect the premises first , and examine the servants afterwards . 
That's the usual way of doing business . 
Lights were then procured and Messrs . 
Meanwhile , the doctor walked up and down the next room in a very uneasy state and Mrs. Maylie and Rose looked on , with anxious faces . 
'Upon my word , he said , making a halt , after a great number of very rapid turns , 'I hardly know what to do . 
'Surely , said Rose , 'the poor child's story , faithfully repeated to these men , will be sufficient to exonerate him . 
'I doubt it , my dear young lady , said the doctor , shaking his head . 
'I don't think it would exonerate him , either with them , or with legal functionaries of a higher grade . 
What is he , after all , they would say ? A runaway . 
Judged by mere worldly considerations and probabilities , his story is a very doubtful one . 
'You believe it , surely ? interrupted Rose . 
'Why not ? demanded Rose . 
Confound the fellows , they WILL have the way and the wherefore , and will take nothing for granted . 
Having given vent to this result of experience , the doctor put his hands into his pockets , and walked up and down the room with even greater rapidity than before . 
'Oh ! what is to be done ? cried Rose . 
'Dear , dear ! whyddid they send for these people ? 'Why , indeed ! exclaimed Mrs. Maylie . 
'I would not have had them here , for the world . 
'All I know is , said Mr. Losberne , at last sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness , 'that we must try and carry it off with a bold face . 
The object is a good one , and that must be our excuse . 
The boy has strong symptoms of fever upon him , and is in no condition to be talked to any more that's one comfort . 
We must make the best of it and if bad be the best , it is no fault of ours . 
Come in ! 'Well , master , said Blathers , entering the room followed by his colleague , and making the door fast , before he said any more . 
'This warn't a put up thing . 
'And what the devil's a put up thing ? demanded the doctor , impatiently . 
'Nobody suspected them , in this case , said Mrs. Maylie . 
'Wery likely not , ma'am , replied Blathers 'but they might have been in it , for all that . 
'More likely on that wery account , said Duff . 
'We find it was a town hand , said Blathers , continuing his report 'for the style of work is first rate . 
'Wery pretty indeed it is , remarked Duff , in an undertone . 
'There was two of 'em in it , continued Blathers 'and they had a boy with 'em that's plain from the size of the window . 
That's all to be said at present . 
We'll see this lad that you've got upstairs at once , if you please . 
'Perhaps they will take something to drink first , Mrs. Maylie ? said the doctor his face brightening , as if some new thought had occurred to him . 
'Oh ! to be sure ! exclaimed Rose , eagerly . 
'You shall have it immediately , if you will . 
'Why , thank you , miss ! said Blathers , drawing his coat sleeve across his mouth 'it's dry work , this sort of duty . 
Anythink that's handy , miss don't put yourself out of the way , on our accounts . 
'What shall it be ? asked the doctor , following the young lady to the sideboard . 
'A little drop of spirits , master , if it's all the same , replied Blathers . 
'It's a cold ride from London , ma'am and I always find that spirits comes home warmer to the feelings . 
This interesting communication was addressed to Mrs. Maylie , who received it very graciously . 
While it was being conveyed to her , the doctor slipped out of the room . 
'That crack down in the back lane at Edmonton , Blathers , said Mr. Duff , assisting his colleague's memory . 
'That was something in this way , warn't it ? rejoined Mr. Blathers 'that was done by Conkey Chickweed , that was . 
'You always gave that to him' replied Duff . 
'It was the Family Pet , I tell you . 
Conkey hadn't any more to do with it than I had . 
'Get out ! retorted Mr. Blathers 'I know better . 
'It was a robbery , miss , that hardly anybody would have been down upon , said Blathers . 
'This here Conkey Chickweed 'Conkey means Nosey , ma'am , interposed Duff . 
'Of course the lady knows that , don't she ? demanded Mr. Blathers . 
He was wery quick about it . 
But Conkey was quick , too for he fired a blunderbuss arter him , and roused the neighbourhood . 
, and tells him to go and assist Mr. Chickweed in apprehending the man as robbed his house . 
I see him , Spyers , said Chickweed , pass my house yesterday morning , Why didn't you up , and collar him ! says Spyers . 
Away goes Spyers on goes Chickweed round turns the people everybody roars out , Thieves ! and Chickweed himself keeps on shouting , all the time , like mad . 
'What did Jem Spyers say ? inquired the doctor who had returned to the room shortly after the commencement of the story . 
'Jem Spyers , resumed the officer , 'for a long time said nothing at all , and listened to everything without seeming to , which showed he understood his business . 
But , one morning , he walked into the bar , and taking out his snuffbox , says Chickweed , I've found out who done this here robbery . 
Have you ? said Chickweed . 
'Very curious , indeed , observed the doctor . 
'Now , if you please , you can walk upstairs . 
'If YOU please , sir , returned Mr. Blathers . 
Closely following Mr. Losberne , the two officers ascended to Oliver's bedroom Mr. Giles preceding the party , with a lighted candle . 
Oliver had been dozing but looked worse , and was more feverish than he had appeared yet . 
Blathers and Duff looked at Mr. Giles , as he was thus recommended to their notice . 
The bewildered butler gazed from them towards Oliver , and from Oliver towards Mr. Losberne , with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity . 
'You don't mean to deny that , I suppose ? said the doctor , laying Oliver gently down again . 
'It was all done for the for the best , sir , answered Giles . 
'I am sure I thought it was the boy , or I wouldn't have meddled with him . 
I am not of an inhuman disposition , sir . 
'Thought it was what boy ? inquired the senior officer . 
'The housebreaker's boy , sir ! replied Giles . 
'They they certainly had a boy . 
'Well ? Do you think so now ? inquired Blathers . 
'Think what , now ? replied Giles , looking vacantly at his questioner . 
'Think it's the same boy , Stupid head ? rejoined Blathers , impatiently . 
'I don't know I really don't know , said Giles , with a rueful countenance . 
'I couldn't swear to him . 
'What do you think ? asked Mr. Blathers . 
'I don't know what to think , replied poor Giles . 
'I don't think it is the boy indeed , I'm almost certain that it isn't . 
You know it can't be . 
'Has this man been a drinking , sir ? inquired Blathers , turning to the doctor . 
'What a precious muddle headed chap you are ! said Duff , addressing Mr. Giles , with supreme contempt . 
Blathers and Duff journeyed accordingly . 
Blathers and Duff came back again , as wise as they went . 
Meanwhile , Oliver gradually throve and prospered under the united care of Mrs. Maylie , Rose , and the kind hearted Mr. Losberne . 
CHAPTER XXXII OF THE HAPPY LIFE OLIVER BEGAN TO LEAD WITH HIS KIND FRIENDS Oliver's ailings were neither slight nor few . 
We are going into the country , and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us . 
The quiet place , the pure air , and all the pleasure and beauties of spring , will restore you in a few days . 
We will employ you in a hundred ways , when you can bear the trouble . 
'The trouble ! cried Oliver . 
'Happy , ma'am ! cried Oliver 'how kind of you to say so ! 'You will make me happier than I can tell you , replied the young lady . 
Do you understand me ? she inquired , watching Oliver's thoughtful face . 
'Oh yes , ma'am , yes ! replied Oliver eagerly 'but I was thinking that I am ungrateful now . 
'To whom ? inquired the young lady . 
'To the kind gentleman , and the dear old nurse , who took so much care of me before , rejoined Oliver . 
'If they knew how happy I am , they would be pleased , I am sure . 
'Has he , ma'am ? cried Oliver , his face brightening with pleasure . 
'I don't know what I shall do for joy when I see their kind faces once again ! In a short time Oliver was sufficiently recovered to undergo the fatigue of this expedition . 
One morning he and Mr. Losberne set out , accordingly , in a little carriage which belonged to Mrs. Maylie . 
When they came to Chertsey Bridge , Oliver turned very pale , and uttered a loud exclamation . 
'What's the matter with the boy ? cried the doctor , as usual , all in a bustle . 
'Do you see anything hear anything feel anything eh ? 'That , sir , cried Oliver , pointing out of the carriage window . 
'That house ! 'Yes well , what of it ? Stop coachman . 
Pull up here , cried the doctor . 
'What of the house , my man eh ? 'The thieves the house they took me to ! whispered Oliver . 
'The devil it is ! cried the doctor . 
'What's the matter here ? 'Matter ! exclaimed the other , collaring him , without a moment's reflection . 
'There'll be Murder the matter , too , replied the hump backed man , coolly , 'if you don't take your hands off . 
Do you hear me ? 'I hear you , said the doctor , giving his captive a hearty shake . 
'Where's confound the fellow , what's his rascally name Sikes that's it . 
Before he could shut the door , however , the doctor had passed into the parlour , without a word of parley . 
'What do you want , then ? demanded the hunchback . 
'I shall find you out , some day , my friend . 
'Will you ? sneered the ill favoured cripple . 
'If you ever want me , I'm here . 
I haven't lived here mad and all alone , for five and twenty years , to be scared by you . 
You shall pay for this you shall pay for this . 
And so saying , the mis shapen little demon set up a yell , and danced upon the ground , as if wild with rage . 
'Stupid enough , this , muttered the doctor to himself 'the boy must have made a mistake . 
Here ! Put that in your pocket , and shut yourself up again . 
With these words he flung the hunchback a piece of money , and returned to the carriage . 
'I am an ass ! said the doctor , after a long silence . 
'Did you know that before , Oliver ? 'No , sir . 
'Then don't forget it another time . 
'An ass , said the doctor again , after a further silence of some minutes . 
That would have served me right , though . 
I am always involving myself in some scrape or other , by acting on impulse . 
It might have done me good . 
As Oliver knew the name of the street in which Mr. Brownlow resided , they were enabled to drive straight thither . 
When the coach turned into it , his heart beat so violently , that he could scarcely draw his breath . 
'Now , my boy , which house is it ? inquired Mr. Losberne . 
'That ! That ! replied Oliver , pointing eagerly out of the window . 
Oh ! make haste ! Pray make haste ! I feel as if I should die it makes me tremble so . 
'Come , come ! said the good doctor , patting him on the shoulder . 
'You will see them directly , and they will be overjoyed to find you safe and well . 
'Oh ! I hope so ! cried Oliver . 
'They were so good to me so very , very good to me . 
No that was the wrong house the next door . 
It went on a few paces , and stopped again . 
Oliver looked up at the windows , with tears of happy expectation coursing down his face . 
Alas ! the white house was empty , and there was a bill in the window . 
'Knock at the next door , cried Mr. Losberne , taking Oliver's arm in his . 
'What has become of Mr. Brownlow , who used to live in the adjoining house , do you know ? The servant did not know but would go and inquire . 
She presently returned , and said , that Mr. Brownlow had sold off his goods , and gone to the West Indies , six weeks before . 
Oliver clasped his hands , and sank feebly backward . 
'Has his housekeeper gone too ? inquired Mr. Losberne , after a moment's pause . 
'Yes , sir' replied the servant . 
'The old gentleman , the housekeeper , and a gentleman who was a friend of Mr. Brownlow's , all went together . 
'I know the way there . 
See him , pray , sir ! Do see him ! 'My poor boy , this is disappointment enough for one day , said the doctor . 
'Quite enough for both of us . 
If we go to the book stall keeper's , we shall certainly find that he is dead , or has set his house on fire , or run away . 
No home again straight ! And in obedience to the doctor's impulse , home they went . 
The circumstance occasioned no alteration , however , in the behaviour of his benefactors . 
It was a lovely spot to which they repaired . 
Oliver , whose days had been spent among squalid crowds , and in the midst of noise and brawling , seemed to enter on a new existence there . 
The rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees and the garden flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours . 
It was a happy time . 
The days were peaceful and serene the nights brought with them neither fear nor care no languishing in a wretched prison , or associating with wretched men nothing but pleasant and happy thoughts . 
There would be no candles lighted at such times as these and Oliver would sit by one of the windows , listening to the sweet music , in a perfect rapture . 
than any he had ever heard in church before . 
applied himself with hearty good will , until Miss Rose made her appearance when there were a thousand commendations to be bestowed on all he had done . 
CHAPTER XXXIII WHEREIN THE HAPPINESS OF OLIVER AND HIS FRIENDS , EXPERIENCES A SUDDEN CHECK Spring flew swiftly by , and summer came . 
If the village had been beautiful at first it was now in the full glow and luxuriance of its richness . 
The earth had donned her mantle of brightest green and shed her richest perfumes abroad . 
It was the prime and vigour of the year all things were glad and flourishing . 
Still , the same quiet life went on at the little cottage , and the same cheerful serenity prevailed among its inmates . 
Oliver had long since grown stout and healthy but health or sickness made no difference in his warm feelings of a great many people . 
Rose had been in high spirits , too , and they had walked on , in merry conversation , until they had far exceeded their ordinary bounds . 
Mrs. Maylie being fatigued , they returned more slowly home . 
The young lady merely throwing off her simple bonnet , sat down to the piano as usual . 
'Rose , my dear ! said the elder lady . 
Rose made no reply , but played a little quicker , as though the words had roused her from some painful thoughts . 
'Rose , my love ! cried Mrs. Maylie , rising hastily , and bending over her . 
'What is this ? In tears ! My dear child , what distresses you ? 'Nothing , aunt nothing , replied the young lady . 
'I don't know what it is I can't describe it but I feel 'Not ill , my love ? interposed Mrs. Maylie . 
'No , no ! Oh , not ill ! replied Rose shuddering as though some deadly chillness were passing over her , while she spoke 'I shall be better presently . 
Close the window , pray ! Oliver hastened to comply with her request . 
The young lady , making an effort to recover her cheerfulness , strove to play some livelier tune but her fingers dropped powerless over the keys . 
Covering her face with her hands , she sank upon a sofa , and gave vent to the tears which she was now unable to repress . 
'My child ! said the elderly lady , folding her arms about her , 'I never saw you so before . 
'I would not alarm you if I could avoid it , rejoined Rose 'but indeed I have tried very hard , and cannot help this . 
I fear I AM ill , aunt . 
Its expression had lost nothing of its beauty but it was changed and there was an anxious haggard look about the gentle face , which it had never worn before . 
Another minute , and it was suffused with a crimson flush and a heavy wildness came over the soft blue eye . 
Again this disappeared , like the shadow thrown by a passing cloud and she was once more deadly pale . 
At length , she said , in a trembling voice 'I hope not , Oliver . 
I have been very happy with her for some years too happy , perhaps . 
It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune but I hope it is not this . 
'The heavy blow , said the old lady , 'of losing the dear girl who has so long been my comfort and happiness . 
'Oh ! God forbid ! exclaimed Oliver , hastily . 
'Amen to that , my child ! said the old lady , wringing her hands . 
'Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful ? said Oliver . 
'Two hours ago , she was quite well . 
'She is very ill now , rejoined Mrs. Maylies 'and will be worse , I am sure . 
'And consider , ma'am , said Oliver , as the tears forced themselves into his eyes , despite of his efforts to the contrary . 
'Oh ! consider how young and good she is , and what pleasure and comfort she gives to all about her . 
Heaven will never let her die so young . 
'Hush ! said Mrs. Maylie , laying her hand on Oliver's head . 
'You think like a child , poor boy . 
But you teach me my duty , notwithstanding . 
But he was young , and did not know what strong minds are capable of , under trying circumstances . 
How should he , when their possessors so seldom know themselves ? An anxious night ensued . 
When morning came , Mrs. Maylie's predictions were but too well verified . 
Rose was in the first stage of a high and dangerous fever . 
The people at the inn will undertake to do this and I can trust to you to see it done , I know . 
Oliver could make no reply , but looked his anxiety to be gone at once . 
'Here is another letter , said Mrs. Maylie , pausing to reflect 'but whether to send it now , or wait until I see how Rose goes on , I scarcely know . 
I would not forward it , unless I feared the worst . 
'Is it for Chertsey , too , ma'am ? inquired Oliver impatient to execute his commission , and holding out his trembling hand for the letter . 
'No , replied the old lady , giving it to him mechanically . 
Oliver glanced at it , and saw that it was directed to Harry Maylie , Esquire , at some great lord's house in the country where , he could not make out . 
'Shall it go , ma'am ? asked Oliver , looking up , impatiently . 
'I think not , replied Mrs. Maylie , taking it back . 
'I will wait until to morrow . 
With these words , she gave Oliver her purse , and he started off , without more delay , at the greatest speed he could muster . 
Here he paused , and looked about for the inn . 
To this he hastened , as soon as it caught his eye . 
As it was something to feel certain that assistance was sent for , and that no time had been lost , Oliver hurried up the inn yard , with a somewhat lighter heart . 
He was turning out of the gateway when he accidently stumbled against a tall man wrapped in a cloak , who was at that moment coming out of the inn door . 
'Hah ! cried the man , fixing his eyes on Oliver , and suddenly recoiling . 
'What the devil's this ? 'I beg your pardon , sir , said Oliver 'I was in a great hurry to get home , and didn't see you were coming . 
'Death ! muttered the man to himself , glaring at the boy with his large dark eyes . 
Curses on your head , and black death on your heart , you imp ! What are you doing here ? The man shook his fist , as he uttered these words incoherently . 
He advanced towards Oliver , as if with the intention of aiming a blow at him , but fell violently on the ground writhing and foaming , in a fit . 
and then darted into the house for help . 
Rose Maylie had rapidly grown worse before mid night she was delirious . 
'In fact , he said , 'it would be little short of a miracle , if she recovered . 
People spoke in whispers anxious faces appeared at the gate , from time to time women and children went away in tears . 
Late that night , Mr. Losberne arrived . 
'It is hard , said the good doctor , turning away as he spoke 'so young so much beloved but there is very little hope . 
Oliver crept away to the old churchyard , and sitting down on one of the green mounds , wept and prayed for her , in silence . 
He almost thought that shrouds were for the old and shrunken and that they never wrapped the young and graceful form in their ghastly folds . 
A knell from the church bell broke harshly on these youthful thoughts . 
Another ! Again ! It was tolling for the funeral service . 
A group of humble mourners entered the gate wearing white favours for the corpse was young . 
They stood uncovered by a grave and there was a mother a mother once among the weeping train . 
But the sun shone brightly , and the birds sang on . 
When he reached home Mrs. Maylie was sitting in the little parlour . 
Oliver's heart sand at sight of her for she had never left the bedside of her niece and he trembled to think what change could have driven her away . 
He learnt that she had fallen into a deep sleep , from which she would waken , either to recovery and life , or to bid them farewell , and die . 
They sat , listening , and afraid to speak , for hours . 
Their quick ears caught the sound of an approaching footstep . 
They both involuntarily darted to the door , as Mr. Losberne entered . 
'What of Rose ? cried the old lady . 
'Be calm , my dear ma'am , pray . 
'Let me go , in God's name ! My dear child ! She is dead ! She is dying ! 'No ! cried the doctor , passionately . 
'As He is good and merciful , she will live to bless us all , for years to come . 
CHAPTER XXIV CONTAINS SOME INTRODUCTORY PARTICULARS RELATIVE TO A YOUNG GENTLEMAN WHO NOW ARRIVES UPON THE SCENE AND A NEW ADVENTURE WHICH HAPPENED TO OLIVER It was almost too much happiness to bear . 
Oliver felt stunned and stupefied by the unexpected intelligence he could not weep , or speak , or rest . 
The night was fast closing in , when he returned homeward laden with flowers which he had culled , with peculiar care , for the adornment of the sick chamber . 
As he walked briskly along the road , he heard behind him , the noise of some vehicle , approaching at a furious pace . 
Then , the nightcap once again appeared and the same voice called Oliver by his name . 
'Here ! cried the voice . 
'Oliver , what's the news ? Miss Rose ! Master O li ver ! 'Is is you , Giles ? cried Oliver , running up to the chaise door . 
'In a word ! cried the gentleman , 'Better or worse ? 'Better much better ! replied Oliver , hastily . 
'Thank Heaven ! exclaimed the gentleman . 
'You are sure ? 'Quite , sir , replied Oliver . 
'The change took place only a few hours ago and Mr. Losberne says , that all danger is at an end . 
The gentleman said not another word , but , opening the chaise door , leaped out , and taking Oliver hurriedly by the arm , led him aside . 
'You are quite certain ? There is no possibility of any mistake on your part , my boy , is there ? demanded the gentleman in a tremulous voice . 
'Do not deceive me , by awakening hopes that are not to be fulfilled . 
'I would not for the world , sir , replied Oliver . 
'Indeed you may believe me . 
Mr. Losberne's words were , that she would live to bless us all for many years to come . 
I heard him say so . 
That the honest fellow had not been feigning emotion , was abundently demonstrated by the very red eyes with which he regarded the young gentleman , when he turned round and addressed him . 
'I think you had better go on to my mother's in the chaise , Giles , said he . 
'I would rather walk slowly on , so as to gain a little time before I see her . 
You can say I am coming . 
It wouldn't be proper for the maids to see me in this state , sir I should never have any more authority with them if they did . 
'Well , rejoined Harry Maylie , smiling , 'you can do as you like . 
Let him go on with the luggage , if you wish it , and do you follow with us . 
Only first exchange that nightcap for some more appropriate covering , or we shall be taken for madmen . 
Mr. Giles , reminded of his unbecoming costume , snatched off and pocketed his nightcap and substituted a hat , of grave and sober shape , which he took out of the chaise . 
This done , the postboy drove off Giles , Mr. Maylie , and Oliver , followed at their leisure . 
As they walked along , Oliver glanced from time to time with much interest and curiosity at the new comer . 
He seemed about five and twenty years of age , and was of the middle height his countenance was frank and handsome and his demeanor easy and prepossessing . 
Mrs. Maylie was anxiously waiting to receive her son when he reached the cottage . 
The meeting did not take place without great emotion on both sides . 
'This is unkind , mother , said Harry . 
And she may have the pain of knowing that he does so . 
'Mother , said the young man , impatiently , 'he would be a selfish brute , unworthy alike of the name of man and of the woman you describe , who acted thus . 
'You think so now , Harry , replied his mother . 
'And ever will ! said the young man . 
On Rose , sweet , gentle girl ! my heart is set , as firmly as ever heart of man was set on woman . 
Mother , think better of this , and of me , and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little . 
'Harry , said Mrs. Maylie , 'it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts , that I would spare them from being wounded . 
But we have said enough , and more than enough , on this matter , just now . 
'Let it rest with Rose , then , interposed Harry . 
I have considered , ever since I have been capable of serious reflection . 
'She shall , said Mrs. Maylie . 
'There is something in your manner , which would almost imply that she will hear me coldly , mother , said the young man . 
'Not coldly , rejoined the old lady 'far from it . 
'How then ? urged the young man . 
'She has formed no other attachment ? 'No , indeed , replied his mother 'you have , or I mistake , too strong a hold on her affections already . 
What I would say , resumed the old lady , stopping her son as he was about to speak , 'is this . 
'What do you mean ? 'That I leave you to discover , replied Mrs. Maylie . 
'I must go back to her . 
God bless you ! 'I shall see you again to night ? said the young man , eagerly . 
'By and by , replied the lady 'when I leave Rose . 
'You will tell her I am here ? said Harry . 
'Of course , replied Mrs. Maylie . 
'And say how anxious I have been , and how much I have suffered , and how I long to see her . 
You will not refuse to do this , mother ? 'No , said the old lady 'I will tell her all . 
And pressing her son's hand , affectionately , she hastened from the room . 
Mr. Losberne and Oliver had remained at another end of the apartment while this hurried conversation was proceeding . 
The former now held out his hand to Harry Maylie and hearty salutations were exchanged between them . 
'Have you shot anything particular , lately , Giles ? inquired the doctor , when he had concluded . 
'Nothing particular , sir , replied Mr. Giles , colouring up to the eyes . 
'Nor catching any thieves , nor identifying any house breakers ? said the doctor . 
'None at all , sir , replied Mr. Giles , with much gravity . 
'Well , said the doctor , 'I am sorry to hear it , because you do that sort of thing admirably . 
Pray , how is Brittles ? 'The boy is very well , sir , said Mr. Giles , recovering his usual tone of patronage 'and sends his respectful duty , sir . 
'That's well , said the doctor . 
Oliver rose next morning , in better heart , and went about his usual occupations , with more hope and pleasure than he had known for many days . 
The melancholy which had seemed to the sad eyes of the anxious boy to hang , for days past , over every object , beautiful as all were , was dispelled by magic . 
The dew seemed to sparkle more brightly on the green leaves the air to rustle among them with a sweeter music and the sky itself to look more blue and bright . 
Such is the influence which the condition of our own thoughts , exercise , even over the appearance of external objects . 
The real hues are delicate , and need a clearer vision . 
It is worthy of remark , and Oliver did not fail to note it at the time , that his morning expeditions were no longer made alone . 
Pending these observations , the days were flying by and Rose was rapidly recovering . 
He applied himself , with redoubled assiduity , to the instructions of the white headed old gentleman , and laboured so hard that his quick progress surprised even himself . 
It was while he was engaged in this pursuit , that he was greatly startled and distressed by a most unexpected occurence . 
The little room in which he was accustomed to sit , when busy at his books , was on the ground floor , at the back of the house . 
It looked into a garden , whence a wicket gate opened into a small paddock all beyond , was fine meadow land and wood . 
There was no other dwelling near , in that direction and the prospect it commanded was very extensive . 
One beautiful evening , when the first shades of twilight were beginning to settle upon the earth , Oliver sat at this window , intent upon his books . 
Nor is this , the most striking phenomenon indcidental to such a state . 
And yet he was asleep . 
Suddenly , the scene changed the air became close and confined and he thought , with a glow of terror , that he was in the Jew's house again . 
There sat the hideous old man , in his accustomed corner , pointing at him , and whispering to another man , with his face averted , who sat beside him . 
'Hush , my dear ! he thought he heard the Jew say 'it is he , sure enough . 
It was but an instant , a glance , a flash , before his eyes and they were gone . 
He stood transfixed for a moment then , leaping from the window into the garden , called loudly for help . 
'What direction did he take ? he asked , catching up a heavy stick which was standing in a corner . 
'That , replied Oliver , pointing out the course the man had taken 'I missed them in an instant . 
'Then , they are in the ditch ! said Harry . 
'Follow ! And keep as near me , as you can . 
So saying , he sprang over the hedge , and darted off with a speed which rendered it matter of exceeding difficulty for the others to keep near him . 
The search was all in vain . 
There were not even the traces of recent footsteps , to be seen . 
They stood now , on the summit of a little hill , commanding the open fields in every direction for three or four miles . 
A thick wood skirted the meadow land in another direction but they could not have gained that covert for the same reason . 
'It must have been a dream , Oliver , said Harry Maylie . 
'Oh no , indeed , sir , replied Oliver , shuddering at the very recollection of the old wretch's countenance 'I saw him too plainly for that . 
I saw them both , as plainly as I see you now . 
'Who was the other ? inquired Harry and Mr. Losberne , together . 
'The very same man I told you of , who came so suddenly upon me at the inn , said Oliver . 
'We had our eyes fixed full upon each other and I could swear to him . 
'The tall man leaped over , just there and the Jew , running a few paces to the right , crept through that gap . 
The two gentlemen watched Oliver's earnest face , as he spoke , and looking from him to each other , seemed to fell satisfied of the accuracy of what he said . 
Still , in no direction were there any appearances of the trampling of men in hurried flight . 
The grass was long but it was trodden down nowhere , save where their own feet had crushed it . 
'This is strange ! said Harry . 
'Strange ? echoed the doctor . 
'Blathers and Duff , themselves , could make nothing of it . 
Giles was dispatched to the different ale houses in the village , furnished with the best description Oliver could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers . 
On the next day , fresh search was made , and the inquiries renewed but with no better success . 
On the day following , Oliver and Mr. Maylie repaired to the market town , in the hope of seeing or hearing something of the men there but this effort was equally fruitless . 
After a few days , the affair began to be forgotten , as most affairs are , when wonder , having no fresh food to support it , dies away of itself . 
Meanwhile , Rose was rapidly recovering . 
She had left her room was able to go out and mixing once more with the family , carried joy into the hearts of all . 
Mrs. Maylie and her son were often closeted together for a long time and more than once Rose appeared with traces of tears upon her face . 
'A few a very few will suffice , Rose , said the young man , drawing his chair towards her . 
Rose had been very pale from the moment of his entrance but that might have been the effect of her recent illness . 
She merely bowed and bending over some plants that stood near , waited in silence for him to proceed . 
'I I ought to have left here , before , said Harry . 
'You should , indeed , replied Rose . 
'Forgive me for saying so , but I wish you had . 
You had been dying trembling between earth and heaven . 
'A creature , continued the young man , passionately , 'a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of God's own angels , fluttered between life and death . 
I have watched you change almost from death , to life , with eyes that turned blind with their eagerness and deep affection . 
Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this for it has softened my heart to all mankind . 
'Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble . 
said Rose , mastering the emotions by which she was agitated . 
'As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful , so hear my answer . 
Look into the world think how many hearts you would be proud to gain , are there . 
Confide some other passion to me , if you will I will be the truest , warmest , and most faithful friend you have . 
There was a pause , during which , Rose , who had covered her face with one hand , gave free vent to her tears . 
Harry still retained the other . 
'And your reasons , Rose , he said , at length , in a low voice 'your reasons for this decision ? 'You have a right to know them , rejoined Rose . 
'You can say nothing to alter my resolution . 
It is a duty that I must perform . 
I owe it , alike to others , and to myself . 
'To yourself ? 'Yes , Harry . 
I owe it to you and yours , to prevent you from opposing , in the warmth of your generous nature , this great obstacle to your progress in the world . 
'If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty Harry began . 
'They do not , replied Rose , colouring deeply . 
'Then you return my love ? said Harry . 
'Do not conceal that from me , at least , Rose . 
'I could , said Rose . 
'Your reason in your own words . 
From your own lips , let me hear it ! 'The prospect before you , answered Rose , firmly , 'is a brilliant one . 
All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help men in public life , are in store for you . 
I will carry it into no blood but my own and the reproach shall rest alone on me . 
'One word more , Rose . 
Dearest Rose ! one more ! cried Harry , throwing himself before her . 
'The question does not arise , and never will . 
It is unfair , almost unkind , to urge it . 
It is not an idle thing to do so much , by the utterance of a few brief words , for one who loves you beyond all else . 
I have every reason to be happy , very happy , now but then , Harry , I own I should have been happier . 
'I cannot help this weakness , and it makes my purpose stronger , said Rose , extending her hand . 
'I must leave you now , indeed . 
'I ask one promise , said Harry . 
'Once , and only once more , say within a year , but it may be much sooner , I may speak to you again on this subject , for the last time . 
'Not to press me to alter my right determination , replied Rose , with a melancholy smile 'it will be useless . 
'Then let it be so , rejoined Rose 'it is but one pang the more , and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better . 
She extended her hand again . 
But the young man caught her to his bosom and imprinting one kiss on her beautiful forehead , hurried from the room . 
'I hope I may have good cause to do so , replied Mr. Losberne 'though I confess I don't think I shall . 
Before noon , you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go , on your road to London . 
Too bad , isn't it , Oliver ? 'I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and Mr. Maylie went away , sir , rejoined Oliver . 
'That's a fine fellow , said the doctor 'you shall come and see me when you return . 
'Well , said the doctor , 'you are a queer fellow . 
But of course they will get you into parliament at the election before Christmas , and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life . 
Good training is always desirable , whether the race be for place , cup , or sweepstakes . 
The post chaise drove up to the door shortly afterwards and Giles coming in for the luggage , the good doctor bustled out , to see it packed . 
'Oliver , said Harry Maylie , in a low voice , 'let me speak a word with you . 
Oliver walked into the window recess to which Mr. Maylie beckoned him much surprised at the mixture of sadness and boisterous spirits , which his whole behaviour displayed . 
'You can write well now ? said Harry , laying his hand upon his arm . 
'I hope so , sir , replied Oliver . 
Will you ? 'Oh ! certainly , sir I shall be proud to do it , exclaimed Oliver , greatly delighted with the commission . 
You understand me ? 'Oh ! quite , sir , quite , replied Oliver . 
Let is be a secret between you and me and mind you tell me everything ! I depend upon you . 
Oliver , quite elated and honoured by a sense of his importance , faithfully promised to be secret and explicit in his communications . 
Mr. Maylie took leave of him , with many assurances of his regard and protection . 
held the door open in his hand and the women servants were in the garden , looking on . 
Harry cast one slight glance at the latticed window , and jumped into the carriage . 
'Drive on ! he cried , 'hard , fast , full gallop ! Nothing short of flying will keep pace with me , to day . 
'Halloa ! cried the doctor , letting down the front glass in a great hurry , and shouting to the postillion 'something very short of flyng will keep pace with me . 
It was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen , that the gazers dispersed . 
'He seems in high spirits and happy , she said , at length . 
'I feared for a time he might be otherwise . 
I am very , very glad . 
Mr. Bumble was meditating it might be that the insects brought to mind , some painful passage in his own past life . 
Nor was Mr. Bumble's gloom the only thing calculated to awaken a pleasing melancholy in the bosom of a spectator . 
There were not wanting other appearances , and those closely connected with his own person , which announced that a great change had taken place in the position of his affairs . 
The laced coat , and the cocked hat where were they ? He still wore knee breeches , and dark cotton stockings on his nether limbs but they were not THE breeches . 
The coat was wide skirted and in that respect like THE coat , but , oh how different ! The mighty cocked hat was replaced by a modest round one . 
Mr. Bumble was no longer a beadle . 
There are some promotions in life , which , independent of the more substantial rewards they offer , require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them . 
A field marshal has his uniform a bishop his silk apron a counsellor his silk gown a beadle his cocked hat . 
Strip the bishop of his apron , or the beadle of his hat and lace what are they ? Men . 
Dignity , and even holiness too , sometimes , are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine . 
Mr. Bumle had married Mrs. Corney , and was master of the workhouse . 
Another beadle had come into power . 
On him the cocked hat , gold laced coat , and staff , had all three descended . 
'And to morrow two months it was done ! said Mr. Bumble , with a sigh . 
Bumble , ma'am ! said Mr. Bumble , with a sentimental sternness . 
'Well ! cried the lady . 
'Have the goodness to look at me , said Mr. Bumble , fixing his eyes upon her . 
On hearing this most unexpected sound , Mr. Bumble looked , first incredulous , and afterwards amazed . 
He then relapsed into his former state nor did he rouse himself until his attention was again awakened by the voice of his partner . 
'Are you going to sit snoring there , all day ? inquired Mrs. Bumble . 
'Your PREROGATIVE ! sneered Mrs. Bumble , with ineffable contempt . 
'I said the word , ma'am , said Mr. Bumble . 
'The prerogative of a man is to command . 
'And what's the prerogative of a woman , in the name of Goodness ? cried the relict of Mr. Corney deceased . 
'To obey , ma'am , thundered Mr. Bumble . 
'Your late unfortunate husband should have taught it you and then , perhaps , he might have been alive now . 
But , tears were not the things to find their way to Mr. Bumble's soul his heart was waterproof . 
'It opens the lungs , washes the countenance , exercises the eyes , and softens down the temper , said Mr. Bumble . 
The first proof he experienced of the fact , was conveyed in a hollow sound , immediately succeeded by the sudden flying off of his hat to the opposite end of the room . 
upon it with the other . 
'Get up ! said Mrs. Bumble , in a voice of command . 
'And take yourself away from here , unless you want me to do something desperate . 
Mr. Bumble rose with a very rueful countenance wondering much what something desperate might be . 
Picking up his hat , he looked towards the door . 
'Are you going ? demanded Mr. Bumble . 
'Certainly , my dear , certainly , rejoined Mr. Bumble , making a quicker motion towards the door . 
Mr. Bumble immediately darted out of the room , without bestowing another thought on his unfinished sentence leaving the late Mrs. Corney in full possession of the field . 
Mr. Bumble was fairly taken by surprise , and fairly beaten . 
He had a decided propensity for bullying derived no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty and , consequently , was a coward . 
This is by no means a disparagement to his character for many official personages , who are held in high respect and admiration , are the victims of similar infirmities . 
The remark is made , indeed , rather in his favour than otherwise , and with a view of impressing the reader with a just sense of his qualifications for office . 
But , the measure of his degradation was not yet full . 
'Hem ! said Mr. Bumble , summoning up all his native dignity . 
'These women at least shall continue to respect the prerogative . 
'My dear , said Mr. Bumble , 'I didn't know you were here . 
'Didn't know I was here ! repeated Mrs. Bumble . 
'YOU thought they were talking too much ? said Mrs. Bumble . 
'What business is it of yours ? 'Why , my dear urged Mr. Bumble submissively . 
'What business is it of yours ? demanded Mrs. Bumble , again . 
'It's very true , you're matron here , my dear , submitted Mr. Bumble 'but I thought you mightn't be in the way just then . 
'I'll tell you what , Mr. Bumble , returned his lady . 
'We don't want any of your interference . 
Be off come ! Mr. Bumble , seeing with excruciating feelings , the delight of the two old paupers , who were tittering together most rapturously , hesitated for an instant . 
'All in two months ! said Mr. Bumble , filled with dismal thoughts . 
and walked , distractedly , into the street . 
He walked up one street , and down another , until exercise had abated the first passion of his grief and then the revulsion of feeling made him thirsty . 
It began to rain , heavily , at the moment . 
Mr. Bumble stepped in and ordering something to drink , as he passed the bar , entered the apartment into which he had looked from the street . 
The man who was seated there , was tall and dark , and wore a large cloak . 
He eyed Bumble askance , as he entered , but scarcely deigned to nod his head in acknowledgment of his salutation . 
When they had encountered each other's glance several times in this way , the stranger , in a harsh , deep voice , broke silence . 
'I see you were not , said the stranger and expression of quiet sarcasm playing about his mouth 'or you have known my name . 
I would recommend you not to ask for it . 
'I meant no harm , young man , observed Mr. Bumble , majestically . 
'And have done none , said the stranger . 
Another silence succeeded this short dialogue which was again broken by the stranger . 
'I have seen you before , I think ? said he . 
'You were differently dressed at that time , and I only passed you in the street , but I should know you again . 
You were beadle here , once were you not ? 'I was , said Mr. Bumble , in some surprise 'porochial beadle . 
'Just so , rejoined the other , nodding his head . 
'It was in that character I saw you . 
What are you now ? 'Master of the workhouse , rejoined Mr. Bumble , slowly and impressively , to check any undue familiarity the stranger might otherwise assume . 
'Don't scruple to answer freely , man . 
I know you pretty well , you see . 
Porochial officers are not so well paid that they can afford to refuse any little extra fee , when it comes to them in a civil and proper manner . 
The stranger smiled , and nodded his head again as much to say , he had not mistaken his man then rang the bell . 
'Fill this glass again , he said , handing Mr. Bumble's empty tumbler to the landlord . 
'Let it be strong and hot . 
You like it so , I suppose ? 'Not too strong , replied Mr. Bumble , with a delicate cough . 
'You understand what that means , landlord ! said the stranger , drily . 
The host smiled , disappeared , and shortly afterwards returned with a steaming jorum of which , the first gulp brought the water into Mr. Bumble's eyes . 
'Now listen to me , said the stranger , after closing the door and window . 
I want some information from you . 
I don't ask you to give it for mothing , slight as it is . 
Put up that , to begin with . 
As he spoke , he pushed a couple of sovereigns across the table to his companion , carefully , as though unwilling that the chinking of money should be heard without . 
'It's a long time , said Mr. Bumble . 
'The scene , the workhouse . 
'Good ! 'And the time , night . 
'Yes , said the stranger . 
'A boy was born there . 
'A many boys , observed Mr. Bumble , shaking his head , despondingly . 
'Why , you mean Oliver ! Young Twist ! said Mr. Bumble 'I remember him , of course . 
'It's of a woman the hag that nursed his mother . 
Where is she ? 'Where is she ? said Mr. Bumble , whom the gin and water had rendered facetious . 
'It would be hard to tell . 
There's no midwifery there , whichever place she's gone to so I suppose she's out of employment , anyway . 
'What do you mean ? demanded the stranger , sternly . 
'That she died last winter , rejoined Mr. Bumble . 
With that he rose , as if to depart . 
But Mr. Bumble was cunning enough and he at once saw that an opportunity was opened , for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the possession of his better half . 
were aroused afresh by the intelligence . 
'Only through me , rejoined Mr. Bumble . 
'When ? cried the stranger , hastily . 
'To morrow , rejoined Bumble . 
I needn't tell you to be secret . 
With these words , he led the way to the door , after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk . 
Shortly remarking that their roads were different , he departed , without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night . 
On glancing at the address , the parochial functionary observed that it contained no name . 
The stranger had not gone far , so he made after him to ask it . 
'What do you want ? cried the man . 
turning quickly round , as Bumble touched him on the arm . 
'Following me ? 'Only to ask a question , said the other , pointing to the scrap of paper . 
'What name am I to ask for ? 'Monks ! rejoined the man and strode hastily , away . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED BETWEEN MR . 
MONKS , AT THEIR NOCTURNAL INTERVIEW It was a dull , close , overcast summer evening . 
They were both wrapped in old and shabby outer garments , which might , perhaps , serve the double purpose of protecting their persons from the rain , and sheltering them from observation . 
In the heart of this cluster of huts and skirting the river , which its upper stories overhung stood a large building , formerly used as a manufactory of some kind . 
It had , in its day , probably furnished employment to the inhabitants of the surrounding tenements . 
But it had long since gone to ruin . 
It was before this ruinous building that the worthy couple paused , as the first peal of distant thunder reverberated in the air , and the rain commenced pouring violently down . 
'The place should be somewhere here , said Bumble , consulting a scrap of paper he held in his hand . 
'Halloa there ! cried a voice from above . 
Following the sound , Mr. Bumble raised his head and descried a man looking out of a door , breast high , on the second story . 
'Stand still , a minute , cried the voice 'I'll be with you directly . 
With which the head disappeared , and the door closed . 
'Is that the man ? asked Mr. Bumble's good lady . 
Mr. Bumble nodded in the affirmative . 
'Then , mind what I told you , said the matron 'and be careful to say as little as you can , or you'll betray us at once . 
'Come in ! he cried impatiently , stamping his foot upon the ground . 
'Don't keep me here ! The woman , who had hesitated at first , walked boldly in , without any other invitation . 
Mr. Bumble , who was ashamed or afraid to lag behind , followed obviously very ill at ease and with scarcely any of that remarkable dignity which was usually his chief characteristic . 
'What the devil made you stand lingering there , in the wet ? said Monks , turning round , and addressing Bumble , after he had bolted the door behind them . 
'We we were only cooling ourselves , stammered Bumble , looking apprehensively about him . 
'Cooling yourselves ! retorted Monks . 
'Not all the rain that ever fell , or ever will fall , will put as much of hell's fire out , as a man can carry about with him . 
'This is the woman , is it ? demanded Monks . 
'Hem ! That is the woman , replied Mr. Bumble , mindful of his wife's caution . 
'You think women never can keep secrets , I suppose ? said the matron , interposing , and returning , as she spoke , the searching look of Monks . 
'I know they will always keep ONE till it's found out , said Monks . 
'And what may that be ? asked the matron . 
'The loss of their own good name , replied Monks . 
'Of course you don't ! said Monks . 
'Hear it ! he cried , shrinking back . 
'Hear it ! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it . 
'These fits come over me , now and then , said Monks , observing his alarm 'and thunder sometimes brings them on . 
Don't mind me now it's all over for this once . 
'Now , said Monks , when they had all three seated themselves , 'the sooner we come to our business , the better for all . 
The woman know what it is , does she ? The question was addressed to Bumble but his wife anticipated the reply , by intimating that she was perfectly acquainted with it . 
'The first question is , of what nature was her communication ? said Monks . 
'That's the second , observed the woman with much deliberation . 
'The first is , what may the communication be worth ? 'Who the devil can tell that , without knowing of what kind it is ? asked Monks . 
'Nobody better than you , I am persuaded , answered Mrs. Bumble who did not want for spirit , as her yoke fellow could abundantly testify . 
'Humph ! said Monks significantly , and with a look of eager inquiry 'there may be money's worth to get , eh ? 'Perhaps there may , was the composed reply . 
'Something that was taken from her , said Monks . 
Something that 'You had better bid , interrupted Mrs. Bumble . 
'I have heard enough , already , to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to . 
'What's it worth to you ? asked the woman , as collectedly as before . 
'It may be nothing it may be twenty pounds , replied Monks . 
'Speak out , and let me know which . 
'Add five pounds to the sum you have named give me five and twenty pounds in gold , said the woman 'and I'll tell you all I know . 
'Five and twenty pounds ! exclaimed Monks , drawing back . 
'I spoke as plainly as I could , replied Mrs. Bumble . 
'It's not a large sum , either . 
'You can easily take it away again , replied the matron . 
'I am but a woman alone here and unprotected . 
'Not alone , my dear , nor unprotected , neither , submitted Mr. Bumble , in a voice tremulous with fear I am here , my dear . 
And besides , said Mr. Bumble , his teeth chattering as he spoke , 'Mr . 
Monks is too much of a gentleman to attempt any violence on porochial persons . 
I only want a little rousing that's all . 
'You are a fool , said Mrs. Bumble , in reply 'and had better hold your tongue . 
'He had better have cut it out , before he came , if he can't speak in a lower tone , said Monks , grimly . 
'So ! He's your husband , eh ? 'He my husband ! tittered the matron , parrying the question . 
'I thought as much , when you came in , rejoined Monks , marking the angry glance which the lady darted at her spouse as she spoke . 
'So much the better I have less hesitation in dealing with two people , when I find that there's only one will between them . 
See here ! He thrust his hand into a side pocket and producing a canvas bag , told out twenty five sovereigns on the table , and pushed them over to the woman . 
'When this woman , that we called old Sally , died , the matron began , 'she and I were alone . 
I stood alone beside the body when death came over it . 
'Good , said Monks , regarding her attentively . 
'In life ? asked Monks . 
'In death , replied the woman , with something like a shudder . 
'Without saying more ? cried Monks , in a voice which , from its very suppression , seemed only the more furious . 
'It's a lie ! I'll not be played with . 
I'll tear the life out of you both , but I'll know what it was . 
'Which contained interposed Monks , stretching forward . 
'Nothing , replied the woman 'it was a pawnbroker's duplicate . 
'For what ? demanded Monks . 
'In good time I'll tell you . 
Nothing had come of it and , as I tell you , she died with the scrap of paper , all worn and tattered , in her hand . 
The time was out in two days I thought something might one day come of it too and so redeemed the pledge . 
'Where is it now ? asked Monks quickly . 
'THERE , replied the woman . 
It contained a little gold locket in which were two locks of hair , and a plain gold wedding ring . 
'It has the word Agnes engraved on the inside , said the woman . 
'There is a blank left for the surname and then follows the date which is within a year before the child was born . 
'And this is all ? said Monks , after a close and eager scrutiny of the contents of the little packet . 
'All , replied the woman . 
But I may ask you two questions , may I ? 'You may ask , said Monks , with some show of surprise 'but whether I answer or not is another question . 
Which makes three , observed Mr. Bumble , essaying a stroke of facetiousness . 
'Is that what you expected to get from me ? demanded the matron . 
'It is , replied Monks . 
'The other question ? 'What do you propose to do with it ? Can it be used against me ? 'Never , rejoined Monks 'nor against me either . 
See here ! But don't move a step forward , or your life is not worth a bulrush . 
'Look down , said Monks , lowering the lantern into the gulf . 
I could have let you down , quietly enough , when you were seated over it , if that had been my game . 
Thus encouraged , the matron drew near to the brink and even Mr. Bumble himself , impelled by curiousity , ventured to do the same . 
'If you flung a man's body down there , where would it be to morrow morning ? said Monks , swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well . 
'Twelve miles down the river , and cut to pieces besides , replied Bumble , recoiling at the thought . 
It fell straight , and true as a die clove the water with a scarcely audible splash and was gone . 
The three looking into each other's faces , seemed to breathe more freely . 
'There ! said Monks , closing the trap door , which fell heavily back into its former position . 
'If the sea ever gives up its dead , as books say it will , it will keep its gold and silver to itself , and that trash among it . 
We have nothing more to say , and may break up our pleasant party . 
'By all means , observed Mr. Bumble , with great alacrity . 
'You'll keep a quiet tongue in your head , will you ? said Monks , with a threatening look . 
'I am not afraid of your wife . 
'You may depend upon me , young man , answered Mr. Bumble , bowing himself gradually towards the ladder , with excessive politeness . 
'On everybody's account , young man on my own , you know , Mr. Monks . 
'I am glad , for your sake , to hear it , remarked Monks . 
'Light your lantern ! And get away from here as fast as you can . 
They were no sooner gone , than Monks , who appeared to entertain an invincible repugnance to being left alone , called to a boy who had been hidden somewhere below . 
Bidding him go first , and bear the light , he returned to the chamber he had just quitted . 
'Not long gone seven , said the girl . 
'How do you feel to night , Bill ? 'As weak as water , replied Mr. Sikes , with an imprecation on his eyes and limbs . 
'Here lend us a hand , and let me get off this thundering bed anyhow . 
Illness had not improved Mr. Sikes's temper for , as the girl raised him up and led him to a chair , he muttered various curses on her awkwardnewss , and struck her . 
'Whining are you ? said Sikes . 
'Come ! Don't stand snivelling there . 
If you can't do anything better than that , cut off altogether . 
D'ye hear me ? 'I hear you , replied the girl , turning her face aside , and forcing a laugh . 
'What fancy have you got in your head now ? 'Oh ! you've thought better of it , have you ? growled Sikes , marking the tear which trembled in her eye . 
'All the better for you , you have . 
'Why , you don't mean to say , you'd be hard upon me to night , Bill , said the girl , laying her hand upon his shoulder . 
'No ! cried Mr. Sikes . 
'Well , then , rejoined Mr. Sikes , 'I wouldn't . 
Why , damme , now , the girls's whining again ! 'It's nothing , said the girl , throwing herself into a chair . 
'Don't you seem to mind me . 
'What'll be over ? demanded Mr. Sikes in a savage voice . 
'What foolery are you up to , now , again ? Get up and bustle about , and don't come over me with your woman's nonsense . 
'What's the matter here , my dear ? said Fagin , looking in . 
'Lend a hand to the girl , can't you ? replied Sikes impatiently . 
'Give her a whiff of fresh air with the bellows , Charley , said Mr. Dawkins 'and you slap her hands , Fagin , while Bill undoes the petticuts . 
'Why , what evil wind has blowed you here ? he asked Fagin . 
'No evil wind at all , my dear , for evil winds blow nobody any good and I've brought something good with me , that you'll be glad to see . 
Dodger , my dear , open the bundle and give Bill the little trifles that we spent all our money on , this morning . 
'Ah ! said Fagin , rubbing his hands with great satisfaction . 
'You'll do , Bill you'll do now . 
'Do ! exclaimed Mr. Sikes 'I might have been done for , twenty times over , afore you'd have done anything to help me . 
'And us come to bring him all these beau ti ful things . 
Drive him down , Charley ! 'I never see such a jolly dog as that , cried Master Bates , doing as he was desired . 
'Smelling the grub like a old lady a going to market ! He'd make his fortun' on the stage that dog would , and rewive the drayma besides . 
'Hold your din , cried Sikes , as the dog retreated under the bed still growling angrily . 
'And what about the other fortnight ? demanded Sikes . 
'What about the other fortnight that you've left me lying here , like a sick rat in his hole ? 'I couldn't help it , Bill . 
I can't go into a long explanation before company but I couldn't help it , upon my honour . 
'Upon your what ? growled Sikes , with excessive disgust . 
'Here ! Cut me off a piece of that pie , one of you boys , to take the taste of that out of my mouth , or it'll choke me dead . 
'Don't be out of temper , my dear , urged Fagin , submissively . 
'I have never forgot you , Bill never once . 
'No ! I'll pound it that you han't , replied Sikes , with a bitter grin . 
If it hadn't been for the girl , I might have died . 
'There now , Bill , remonstrated Fagin , eagerly catching at the word . 
'Let him be let him be . 
'It's all very well , said Mr. Sikes 'but I must have some blunt from you to night . 
'I haven't a piece of coin about me , replied the Jew . 
'Then you've got lots at home , retorted Sikes 'and I must have some from there . 
'Lots ! cried Fagin , holding up is hands . 
'Well , well , said Fagin , with a sigh , 'I'll send the Artful round presently . 
'You won't do nothing of the kind , rejoined Mr. Sikes . 
Nancy shall go to the ken and fetch it , to make all sure and I'll lie down and have a snooze while she's gone . 
'Has nobody been , Toby ? asked Fagin . 
'Not a living leg , answered Mr. Crackit , pulling up his collar 'it's been as dull as swipes . 
You ought to stand something handsome , Fagin , to recompense me for keeping house so long . 
Damme , I'm as flat as a juryman and should have gone to sleep , as fast as Newgate , if I hadn't had the good natur' to amuse this youngster . 
'Wot a rum chap you are , Tom ! said Master Bates , highly amused by this declaration . 
'Not a bit of it , replied Mr. Chitling . 
'Am I , Fagin ? 'A very clever fellow , my dear , said Fagin , patting him on the shoulder , and winking to his other pupils . 
'And Mr. Crackit is a heavy swell an't he , Fagin ? asked Tom . 
'No doubt at all of that , my dear . 
'And it is a creditable thing to have his acquaintance an't it , Fagin ? pursued Tom . 
'Very much so , indeed , my dear . 
They're only jealous , Tom , because he won't give it to them . 
'Ah ! cried Tom , triumphantly , 'that's where it is ! He has cleaned me out . 
Dodger ! Charley ! It's time you were on the lay . 
Come ! It's near ten , and nothing done yet . 
who established their reputation upon very much the same footing as flash Toby Crackit . 
'Now , said Fagin , when they had left the room , 'I'll go and get you that cash , Nancy . 
This is only the key of a little cupboard where I keep a few odd things the boys get , my dear . 
I never lock up my money , for I've got none to lock up , my dear ha ! ha ! ha ! none to lock up . 
It's a poor trade , Nancy , and no thanks but I'm fond of seeing the young people about me and I bear it all , I bear it all . 
The instant she caught the sound , she tore off her bonnet and shawl , with the rapidity of lightning , and thrust them under the table . 
'Bah ! he whispered , as though nettled by the interruption 'it's the man I expected before he's coming downstairs . 
Not a word about the money while he's here , Nance . 
Not ten minutes , my dear . 
Laying his skinny forefinger upon his lip , the Jew carried a candle to the door , as a man's step was heard upon the stairs without . 
He reached it , at the same moment as the visitor , who , coming hastily into the room , was close upon the girl before he observed her . 
'Only one of my young people , said Fagin , observing that Monks drew back , on beholding a stranger . 
'Any news ? inquired Fagin . 
'And and good ? asked Fagin , hesitating as though he feared to vex the other man by being too sanguine . 
'Not bad , any way , replied Monks with a smile . 
'I have been prompt enough this time . 
Let me have a word with you . 
The girl drew closer to the table , and made no offer to leave the room , although she could see that Monks was pointing to her . 
The Jew perhaps fearing she might say something aloud about the money , if he endeavoured to get rid of her pointed upward , and took Monks out of the room . 
'Not that infernal hole we were in before , she could hear the man say as they went upstairs . 
Fagin laughed and making some reply which did not reach her , seemed , by the creaking of the boards , to lead his companion to the second story . 
The moment the noise ceased , she glided from the room ascended the stairs with incredible softness and silence and was lost in the gloom above . 
The room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more the girl glided back with the same unearthly tread and , immediately afterwards , the two men were heard descending . 
Monks went at once into the street and the Jew crawled upstairs again for the money . 
When he returned , the girl was adjusting her shawl and bonnet , as if preparing to be gone . 
What have you been doing to yourself ? 'Nothing that I know of , except sitting in this close place for I don't know how long and all , replied the girl carelessly . 
'Come ! Let me get back that's a dear . 
With a sigh for every piece of money , Fagin told the amount into her hand . 
They parted without more conversation , merely interchanging a 'good night . 
When the girl got into the open street , she sat down upon a doorstep and seemed , for a few moments , wholly bewildered and unable to pursue her way . 
'Why , burn my body ! said the man , raising himself on his hands as he stared the girl in the face . 
'You look like a corpse come to life again . 
What's the matter ? 'Matter ! replied the girl . 
What do you look at me so hard for ? 'What foolery is this ? demanded Sikes , grasping her by the arm , and shaking her roughly . 
You're not a going to . 
No , damme ! you wouldn't do that ! 'Do what ? asked the girl . 
She's got the fever coming on that's it . 
Fortifying himself with this assurance , Sikes drained the glass to the bottom , and then , with many grumbling oaths , called for his physic . 
The girl jumped up , with great alacrity poured it quickly out , but with her back towards him and held the vessel to his lips , while he drank off the contents . 
Sikes , locking her hand in his , fell back upon the pillow turning his eyes upon her face . 
They closed opened again closed once more again opened . 
The grasp of his hand relaxed the upraised arm fell languidly by his side and he lay like one in a profound trance . 
'The laudanum has taken effect at last , murmured the girl , as she rose from the bedside . 
'I may be too late , even now . 
A watchman was crying half past nine , down a dark passage through which she had to pass , in gaining the main thoroughfare . 
'Has it long gone the half hour ? asked the girl . 
'It'll strike the hour in another quarter , said the man raising his lantern to her face . 
'And I cannot get there in less than an hour or more , muttered Nancy brushing swiftly past him , and gliding rapidly down the street . 
Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues through which she tracked her way , in making from Spitalfields towards the West End of London . 
The clock struck ten , increasing her impatience . 
'The woman is mad ! said the people , turning to look after her as she rushed away . 
When she reached the more wealthy quarter of the town , the streets were comparatively deserted and here her headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past . 
It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park . 
As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door , guided her to the spot , the clock struck eleven . 
She had loitered for a few paces as though irresolute , and making up her mind to advance but the sound determined her , and she stepped into the hall . 
The porter's seat was vacant . 
She looked round with an air of incertitude , and advanced towards the stairs . 
'A lady ! was the reply , accompanied with a scornful look . 
'What lady ? 'Miss Maylie , said Nancy . 
The young woman , who had by this time , noted her appearance , replied only by a look of virtuous disdain and summoned a man to answer her . 
To him , Nancy repeated her request . 
'What name am I to say ? asked the waiter . 
'It's of no use saying any , replied Nancy . 
'Nor business ? said the man . 
'No , nor that neither , rejoined the girl . 
'I must see the lady . 
'Come ! said the man , pushing her towards the door . 
'I shall be carried out if I go ! said the girl violently 'and I can make that a job that two of you won't like to do . 
'Take it up for her , Joe can't you ? said this person . 
'What's the good ? replied the man . 
The soft hearted cook added his intercession , and the result was that the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery . 
'What's it to be ? said the man , with one foot on the stairs . 
'I say , said the man , 'you're coming it strong ! 'You give the message , said the girl firmly 'and let me hear the answer . 
'It's no good being proper in this world , said the first housemaid . 
'Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire , said the second . 
The third contented herself with wondering 'what ladies was made of' and the fourth took the first in a quartette of 'Shameful ! with which the Dianas concluded . 
Regardless of all this for she had weightier matters at heart Nancy followed the man , with trembling limbs , to a small ante chamber , lighted by a lamp from the ceiling . 
Here he left her , and retired . 
But struggling with these better feelings was pride , the vice of the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and self assured . 
If I had taken offence , and gone away , as many would have done , you'd have been sorry for it one day , and not without reason either . 
'I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you , replied Rose . 
'Do not think of that . 
Tell me why you wished to see me . 
I am the person you inquired for . 
'If you are in poverty or affliction I shall be truly glad to relieve you if I can , I shall indeed . 
'Let me stand , lady , said the girl , still weeping , 'and do not speak to me so kindly till you know me better . 
Is is that door shut ? 'Yes , said Rose , recoiling a few steps , as if to be nearer assistance in case she should require it . 
'Why ? 'Because , said the girl , 'I am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands . 
I am the girl that dragged little Oliver back to old Fagin's on the night he went out from the house in Pentonville . 
'You ! said Rose Maylie . 
'I , lady ! replied the girl . 
I am younger than you would think , to look at me , but I am well used to it . 
The poorest women fall back , as I make my way along the crowded pavement . 
'What dreadful things are these ! said Rose , involuntarily falling from her strange companion . 
I may use the word , for the alley and the gutter were mine , as they will be my deathbed . 
'I pity you ! said Rose , in a broken voice . 
'It wrings my heart to hear you ! 'Heaven bless you for your goodness ! rejoined the girl . 
'If you knew what I am sometimes , you would pity me , indeed . 
But I have stolen away from those who would surely murder me , if they knew I had been here , to tell you what I have overheard . 
Do you know a man named Monks ? 'No , said Rose . 
'He knows you , replied the girl 'and knew you were here , for it was by hearing him tell the place that I found you out . 
'I never heard the name , said Rose . 
'Then he goes by some other amongst us , rejoined the girl , 'which I more than thought before . 
I found out , from what I heard , that Monks the man I asked you about , you know 'Yes , said Rose , 'I understand . 
'For what purpose ? asked Rose . 
But I did and I saw him no more till last night . 
'And what occurred then ? 'I'll tell you , lady . 
Last night he came again . 
Again they went upstairs , and I , wrapping myself up so that my shadow would not betray me , again listened at the door . 
'What is all this ! said Rose . 
'The truth , lady , though it comes from my lips , replied the girl . 
In short , Fagin , he says , Jew as you are , you never laid such snares as I'll contrive for my young brother , Oliver . 
'His brother ! exclaimed Rose . 
'He is an earnest man when his hatred is up . 
I know many who do worse things but I'd rather listen to them all a dozen times , than to that Monks once . 
It is growing late , and I have to reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this . 
I must get back quickly . 
'But what can I do ? said Rose . 
'I wish to go back , said the girl . 
Do hear my words , and let me save you yet , for better things . 
'It is , cried the girl , writhing in agony of her mind 'I cannot leave him now ! I could not be his death . 
'Why should you be ? asked Rose . 
'Nothing could save him , cried the girl . 
'If I told others what I have told you , and led to their being taken , he would be sure to die . 
'What am I to do ? said Rose . 
'I should not let you depart from me thus . 
'You should , lady , and I know you will , rejoined the girl , rising . 
'You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness , and forced no promise from you , as I might have done . 
'Of what use , then , is the communication you have made ? said Rose . 
'But where can I find you again when it is necessary ? asked Rose . 
'I promise you solemnly , answered Rose . 
'Every Sunday night , from eleven until the clock strikes twelve , said the girl without hesitation , 'I will walk on London Bridge if I am alive . 
'Stay another moment , interposed Rose , as the girl moved hurriedly towards the door . 
'Think once again on your own condition , and the opportunity you have of escaping from it . 
You have a claim on me not only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence , but as a woman lost almost beyond redemption . 
'Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you , said Rose , stepping gently forward . 
'I wish to serve you indeed . 
CHAPTER XLI CONTAINING FRESH DISCOVERIES , AND SHOWING THAT SUPRISES , LIKE MISFORTUNES , SELDOM COME ALONE Her situation was , indeed , one of no common trial and difficulty . 
They purposed remaining in London only three days , prior to departing for some weeks to a distant part of the coast . 
It was now midnight of the first day . 
As to resorting to any legal adviser , even if she had known how to do so , it was scarcely to be thought of , for the same reason . 
After more communing with herself next day , she arrived at the desperate conclusion of consulting Harry . 
I hardly thought he would but it was better for us both . 
And here Rose dropped the pen , and turned away , as though the very paper which was to be her messenger should not see her weep . 
'What makes you look so flurried ? asked Rose , advancing to meet him . 
'I hardly know how I feel as if I should be choked , replied the boy . 
'Getting out of a coach , replied Oliver , shedding tears of delight , 'and going into a house . 
I didn't speak to him I couldn't speak to him , for he didn't see me , and I trembled so , that I was not able to go up to him . 
But Giles asked , for me , whether he lived there , and they said he did . 
She very soon determined upon turning the discovery to account . 
'Tell them to fetch a hackney coach , and be ready to go with me . 
I will take you there directly , without a minute's loss of time . 
I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour , and be ready as soon as you are . 
Oliver needed no prompting to despatch , and in little more than five minutes they were on their way to Craven Street . 
Brownlow , I believe , sir ? said Rose , glancing from the other gentleman to the one who had spoken . 
'That is my name , said the old gentleman . 
'This is my friend , Mr. Grimwig . 
If I am correctly informed , he is cognizant of the business on which I wish to speak to you . 
Mr. Brownlow inclined his head . 
Mr. Grimwig , who had made one very stiff bow , and risen from his chair , made another very stiff bow , and dropped into it again . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Brownlow . 
'Oliver Twist you knew him as , replied Rose . 
Mr. Browlow was no less surprised , although his astonishment was not expressed in the same eccentric manner . 
'A bad one ! I'll eat my head if he is not a bad one , growled Mr. Grimwig , speaking by some ventriloquial power , without moving a muscle of his face . 
'I'm only sixty one , said Mr. Grimwig , with the same rigid face . 
'And , as the devil's in it if this Oliver is not twelve years old at least , I don't see the application of that remark . 
'Do not heed my friend , Miss Maylie , said Mr. Brownlow 'he does not mean what he says . 
'Yes , he does , growled Mr. Grimwig . 
'No , he does not , said Mr. Brownlow , obviously rising in wrath as he spoke . 
'He'll eat his head , if he doesn't , growled Mr. Grimwig . 
'He would deserve to have it knocked off , if he does , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'And he'd uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it , responded Mr. Grimwig , knocking his stick upon the floor . 
Having gone thus far , the two old gentlemen severally took snuff , and afterwards shook hands , according to their invariable custom . 
'Now , Miss Maylie , said Mr. Brownlow , 'to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested . 
'Thank God ! said the old gentleman . 
'This is great happiness to me , great happiness . 
But you have not told me where he is now , Miss Maylie . 
You must pardon my finding fault with you , but why not have brought him ? 'He is waiting in a coach at the door , replied Rose . 
'At this door ! cried the old gentleman . 
With which he hurried out of the room , down the stairs , up the coachsteps , and into the coach , without another word . 
'Hush ! he said , as the young lady rose in some alarm at this unusual proceeding . 
I'm old enough to be your grandfather . 
'There is somebody else who should not be forgotten , by the bye , said Mr. Brownlow , ringing the bell . 
'Send Mrs. Bedwin here , if you please . 
The old housekeeper answered the summons with all dispatch and dropping a curtsey at the door , waited for orders . 
'Why , you get blinder every day , Bedwin , said Mr. Brownlow , rather testily . 
'Well , that I do , sir , replied the old lady . 
'People's eyes , at my time of life , don't improve with age , sir . 
But Oliver's patience was not proof against this new trial and yielding to his first impulse , he sprang into her arms . 
'God be good to me ! cried the old lady , embracing him 'it is my innocent boy ! 'My dear old nurse ! cried Oliver . 
'He would come back I knew he would , said the old lady , holding him in her arms . 
Rose also explained her reasons for not confiding in her friend Mr. Losberne in the first instance . 
The old gentleman considered that she had acted prudently , and readily undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor himself . 
These preliminaries adjusted , Rose and Oliver returned home . 
Rose had by no means overrated the measure of the good doctor's wrath . 
Nancy's history was no sooner unfolded to him , than he poured forth a shower of mingled threats and execrations threatened to make her the first victim of the combined ingenuity of Messrs . 
Blathers and Duff and actually put on his hat preparatory to sallying forth to obtain the assistance of those worthies . 
'Then what the devil is to be done ? said the impetuous doctor , when they had rejoined the two ladies . 
'Gentleness and care , exclaimed the doctor . 
'I'd send them one and all to 'Never mind where , interposed Mr. Brownlow . 
'But reflect whether sending them anywhere is likely to attain the object we have in view . 
'What object ? asked the doctor . 
'Simply , the discovery of Oliver's parentage , and regaining for him the inheritance of which , if this story be true , he has been fraudulently deprived . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Losberne , cooling himself with his pocket handkerchief 'I almost forgot that . 
'How ? inquired the doctor . 
It is quite clear that we shall have extreme difficulty in getting to the bottom of this mystery , unless we can bring this man , Monks , upon his knees . 
That can only be done by stratagem , and by catching him when he is not surrounded by these people . 
For , suppose he were apprehended , we have no proof against him . 
concerned with the gang in any of their robberies . 
'The promise shall be kept . 
I don't think it will , in the slightest degree , interfere with our proceedings . 
She cannot be seen until next Sunday night this is Tuesday . 
I would suggest that in the meantime , we remain perfectly quiet , and keep these matters secret even from Oliver himself . 
'I should like , he said , 'to call in the aid of my friend Grimwig . 
'I have no objection to your calling in your friend if I may call in mine , said the doctor . 
and Harry Maylie and Mr. Grimwig were accordingly added to the committee . 
'We stay in town , of course , said Mrs. Maylie , 'while there remains the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of success . 
'Good ! rejoined Mr. Brownlow . 
Believe me , I make this request with good reason , for I might otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realised , and only increase difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough . 
With these words , the old gentleman gave his hand to Mrs. Maylie , and escorted her into the supper room . 
Mr. Losberne followed , leading Rose and the council was , for the present , effectually broken up . 
The woman was young , but of a robust and hardy make , as she need have been to bear the weight of the heavy bundle which was strapped to her back . 
'It's a heavy load , I can tell you , said the female , coming up , almost breathless with fatigue . 
'Heavy ! What are yer talking about ? What are yer made for ? rejoined the male traveller , changing his own little bundle as he spoke , to the other shoulder . 
'Much farther ! Yer as good as there , said the long legged tramper , pointing out before him . 
'Look there ! Those are the lights of London . 
'They're a good two mile off , at least , said the woman despondingly . 
'Where do you mean to stop for the night , Noah ? she asked , after they had walked a few hundred yards . 
'How should I know ? replied Noah , whose temper had been considerably impaired by walking . 
'Near , I hope , said Charlotte . 
'No , not near , replied Mr. Claypole . 
'There ! Not near so don't think it . 
'Why not ? 'When I tell yer that I don't mean to do a thing , that's enough , without any why or because either , replied Mr. Claypole with dignity . 
'Well , you needn't be so cross , said his companion . 
And serve yer right for being a fool . 
'I know I ain't as cunning as you are , replied Charlotte 'but don't put all the blame on me , and say I should have been locked up . 
You would have been if I had been , any way . 
'Yer took the money from the till , yer know yer did , said Mr. Claypole . 
'I took it for you , Noah , dear , rejoined Charlotte . 
'Did I keep it ? asked Mr. Claypole . 
Of course , he entered at this juncture , into no explanation of his motives , and they walked on very lovingly together . 
'So give us the bundle , said Noah , unstrapping it from the woman's shoulders , and slinging it over his own 'and don't yer speak , except when yer spoke to . 
What's the name of the house t h r three what ? 'Cripples , said Charlotte . 
'Three Cripples , repeated Noah , 'and a very good sign too . 
Now , then ! Keep close at my heels , and come along . 
With these injunctions , he pushed the rattling door with his shoulder , and entered the house , followed by his companion . 
There was nobody in the bar but a young Jew , who , with his two elbows on the counter , was reading a dirty newspaper . 
He stared very hard at Noah , and Noah stared very hard at him . 
'Is this the Three Cripples ? asked Noah . 
'That is the dabe of this 'ouse , replied the Jew . 
'We want to sleep here to night . 
'I'b dot certaid you cad , said Barney , who was the attendant sprite 'but I'll idquire . 
'Show us the tap , and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring , will yer ? said Noah . 
, but could , by applying his ear to the partition , ascertain with tolerable distinctness , their subject of conversation . 
'Hush ! said Barney 'stradegers id the next roob . 
'Strangers ! repeated the old man in a whisper . 
'Ah ! Ad rub uds too , added Barney . 
'Frob the cuttry , but subthig in your way , or I'b bistaked . 
Fagin appeared to receive this communication with great interest . 
'Aha ! he whispered , looking round to Barney , 'I like that fellow's looks . 
He'd be of use to us he knows how to train the girl already . 
Don't make as much noise as a mouse , my dear , and let me hear 'em talk let me hear 'em . 
'So I mean to be a gentleman , said Mr. Claypole , kicking out his legs , and continuing a conversation , the commencement of which Fagin had arrived too late to hear . 
'No more jolly old coffins , Charlotte , but a gentleman's life for me and , if yer like , yer shall be a lady . 
'I should like that well enough , dear , replied Charlotte 'but tills ain't to be emptied every day , and people to get clear off after it . 
'Tills be blowed ! said Mr. Claypole 'there's more things besides tills to be emptied . 
'What do you mean ? asked his companion . 
'Pockets , women's ridicules , houses , mail coaches , banks ! said Mr. Claypole , rising with the porter . 
'But you can't do all that , dear , said Charlotte . 
'I shall look out to get into company with them as can , replied Noah . 
'They'll be able to make us useful some way or another . 
Why , you yourself are worth fifty women I never see such a precious sly and deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer . 
'Lor , how nice it is to hear yer say so ! exclaimed Charlotte , imprinting a kiss upon his ugly face . 
'There , that'll do don't yer be too affectionate , in case I'm cross with yer , said Noah , disengaging himself with great gravity . 
'I should like to be the captain of some band , and have the whopping of 'em , and follering 'em about , unbeknown to themselves . 
He was meditating another , when the sudden opening of the door , and the appearance of a stranger , interrupted him . 
The stranger was Mr. Fagin . 
'A pleasant night , sir , but cool for the time of year , said Fagin , rubbing his hands . 
'From the country , I see , sir ? 'How do yer see that ? asked Noah Claypole . 
'We have not so much dust as that in London , replied Fagin , pointing from Noah's shoes to those of his companion , and from them to the two bundles . 
'Yer a sharp feller , said Noah . 
However , Mr. Fagin seemed to interpret the endeavour as expressing a perfect coincidence with his opinion , and put about the liquor which Barney reappeared with , in a very friendly manner . 
'Good stuff that , observed Mr. Claypole , smacking his lips . 
'Don't mind me , my dear , said Fagin , drawing his chair closer . 
'Ha ! ha ! it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance . 
It was very lucky it was only me . 
'No matter who's got it , or who did it , my dear , replied Fagin , glancing , nevertheless , with a hawk's eye at the girl and the two bundles . 
'I'm in that way myself , and I like you for it . 
'In what way ? asked Mr. Claypole , a little recovering . 
'In that way of business , rejoined Fagin 'and so are the people of the house . 
You've hit the right nail upon the head , and are as safe here as you could be . 
There is not a safer place in all this town than is the Cripples that is , when I like to make it so . 
And I have taken a fancy to you and the young woman so I've said the word , and you may make your minds easy . 
'I'll tell you more , said Fagin , after he had reassured the girl , by dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements . 
'Yer speak as if yer were in earnest , replied Noah . 
'What advantage would it be to me to be anything else ? inquired Fagin , shrugging his shoulders . 
'Here ! Let me have a word with you outside . 
'There's no occasion to trouble ourselves to move , said Noah , getting his legs by gradual degrees abroad again . 
'She'll take the luggage upstairs the while . 
Charlotte , see to them bundles . 
'She's kept tolerably well under , ain't she ? he asked as he resumed his seat in the tone of a keeper who had tamed some wild animal . 
'Quite perfect , rejoined Fagin , clapping him on the shoulder . 
'You're a genius , my dear . 
'Why , I suppose if I wasn't , I shouldn't be here , replied Noah . 
'But , I say , she'll be back if yer lose time . 
'Now , what do you think ? said Fagin . 
'The top of the tree employs a power of hands has the very best society in the profession . 
'Regular town maders ? asked Mr. Claypole . 
'Not a countryman among 'em and I don't think he'd take you , even on my recommendation , if he didn't run rather short of assistants just now , replied Fagin . 
'Should I have to hand over ? said Noah , slapping his breeches pocket . 
'It couldn't possibly be done without , replied Fagin , in a most decided manner . 
'Twenty pound , though it's a lot of money ! 'Not when it's in a note you can't get rid of , retorted Fagin . 
'Number and date taken , I suppose ? Payment stopped at the Bank ? Ah ! It's not worth much to him . 
It'll have to go abroad , and he couldn't sell it for a great deal in the market . 
'When could I see him ? asked Noah doubtfully . 
, he gradually relented , and said he thought that would suit him . 
'But , yer see , observed Noah , 'as she will be able to do a good deal , I should like to take something very light . 
'A little fancy work ? suggested Fagin . 
'Ah ! something of that sort , replied Noah . 
'What do you think would suit me now ? Something not too trying for the strength , and not very dangerous , you know . 
That's the sort of thing ! 'I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others , my dear , said Fagin . 
'My friend wants somebody who would do that well , very much . 
'Why , I did mention that , and I shouldn't mind turning my hand to it sometimes , rejoined Mr. Claypole slowly 'but it wouldn't pay by itself , you know . 
'That's true ! observed the Jew , ruminating or pretending to ruminate . 
'No , it might not . 
'What do you think , then ? asked Noah , anxiously regarding him . 
'Something in the sneaking way , where it was pretty sure work , and not much more risk than being at home . 
'What do you think of the old ladies ? asked Fagin . 
'There's a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels , and running round the corner . 
'Don't they holler out a good deal , and scratch sometimes ? asked Noah , shaking his head . 
'I don't think that would answer my purpose . 
Ain't there any other line open ? 'Stop ! said Fagin , laying his hand on Noah's knee . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'Ha ! ha ! roared Mr. Claypole , kicking up his legs in an ecstasy . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! With this , Fagin poked Mr. Claypole in the side , and they joined in a burst of laughter both long and loud . 
'Well , that's all right ! said Noah , when he had recovered himself , and Charlotte had returned . 
'What time to morrow shall we say ? 'Will ten do ? asked Fagin , adding , as Mr. Claypole nodded assent , 'What name shall I tell my good friend . 
Bolter , replied Noah , who had prepared himself for such emergency . 
Bolter's humble servant , said Fagin , bowing with grotesque politeness . 
'I hope I shall know her better very shortly . 
'Do you hear the gentleman , Charlotte ? thundered Mr. Claypole . 
'Yes , Noah , dear ! replied Mrs. Bolter , extending her hand . 
'She calls me Noah , as a sort of fond way of talking , said Mr. Morris Bolter , late Claypole , turning to Fagin . 
'You understand ? 'Oh yes , I understand perfectly , replied Fagin , telling the truth for once . 
'Good night ! Good night ! With many adieus and good wishes , Mr. Fagin went his way . 
''Cod , I thought as much last night ! 'Every man's his own friend , my dear , replied Fagin , with his most insinuating grin . 
'He hasn't as good a one as himself anywhere . 
'Except sometimes , replied Morris Bolter , assuming the air of a man of the world . 
'Some people are nobody's enemies but their own , yer know . 
'Don't believe that , said Fagin . 
'When a man's his own enemy , it's only because he's too much his own friend not because he's careful for everybody but himself . 
Pooh ! pooh ! There ain't such a thing in nature . 
'There oughn't to be , if there is , replied Mr. Bolter . 
Some conjurers say that number three is the magic number , and some say number seven . 
It's neither , my friend , neither . 
'Ha ! ha ! cried Mr. Bolter . 
'Oh , the devil ! exclaimed Mr. Bolter . 
'You see , pursued Fagin , affecting to disregard this interruption , 'we are so mixed up together , and identified in our interests , that it must be so . 
For instance , it's your object to take care of number one meaning yourself . 
'Certainly , replied Mr. Bolter . 
'Well ! You can't take care of yourself , number one , without taking care of me , number one . 
'Number two , you mean , said Mr. Bolter , who was largely endowed with the quality of selfishness . 
'No , I don't ! retorted Fagin . 
'I'm of the same importance to you , as you are to yourself . 
'I say , interrupted Mr. Bolter , 'yer a very nice man , and I'm very fond of yer but we ain't quite so thick together , as all that comes to . 
'Only think , said Fagin , shrugging his shoulders , and stretching out his hands 'only consider . 
To keep in the easy road , and keep it at a distance , is object number one with you . 
'Of course it is , replied Mr. Bolter . 
'What do yer talk about such things for ? 'Only to show you my meaning clearly , said the Jew , raising his eyebrows . 
'To be able to do that , you depend upon me . 
To keep my little business all snug , I depend upon you . 
The first is your number one , the second my number one . 
'That's true , rejoined Mr. Bolter , thoughtfully . 
'It's this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under heavy losses , said Fagin . 
'My best hand was taken from me , yesterday morning . 
'You don't mean to say he died ? cried Mr. Bolter . 
'No , no , replied Fagin , 'not so bad as that . 
'What , I suppose he was 'Wanted , interposed Fagin . 
'Yes , he was wanted . 
'Very particular ? inquired Mr. Bolter . 
'No , replied Fagin , 'not very . 
They remanded him till to day , for they thought they knew the owner . 
Ah ! he was worth fifty boxes , and I'd give the price of as many to have him back . 
You should have known the Dodger , my dear you should have known the Dodger . 
'Well , but I shall know him , I hope don't yer think so ? said Mr. Bolter . 
'I'm doubtful about it , replied Fagin , with a sigh . 
They know what a clever lad he is he'll be a lifer . 
They'll make the Artful nothing less than a lifer . 
'What do you mean by lagging and a lifer ? demanded Mr. Bolter . 
'It's all up , Fagin , said Charley , when he and his new companion had been made known to each other . 
'I must have a full suit of mourning , Fagin , and a hatband , to wisit him in , afore he sets out upon his travels . 
'What do you talk about his having neither honour nor glory for ! exclaimed Fagin , darting an angry look at his pupil . 
How will he stand in the Newgate Calendar ? P'raps not be there at all . 
'Never mind , Charley , said Fagin soothingly 'it'll come out , it'll be sure to come out . 
They'll all know what a clever fellow he was he'll show it himself , and not disgrace his old pals and teachers . 
'He shall have all he wants , continued the Jew . 
'He shall be kept in the Stone Jug , Charley , like a gentleman . 
Like a gentleman ! With his beer every day , and money in his pocket to pitch and toss with , if he can't spend it . 
'No , shall he though ? cried Charley Bates . 
'He shall he will ! 'Ah , to be sure , so he will , repeated Charley , rubbing his hands . 
'I think I see him now , cried the Jew , bending his eyes upon his pupil . 
'So do I , cried Charley Bates . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! so do I. I see it all afore me , upon my soul I do , Fagin . 
'We must know how he gets on to day , by some handy means or other , said Fagin . 
'Shall I go ? asked Charley . 
'Not for the world , replied Fagin . 
'Are you mad , my dear , stark mad , that you'd walk into the very place where No , Charley , no . 
One is enough to lose at a time . 
'You don't mean to go yourself , I suppose ? said Charley with a humorous leer . 
'That wouldn't quite fit , replied Fagin shaking his head . 
'Then why don't you send this new cove ? asked Master Bates , laying his hand on Noah's arm . 
'Why , if he didn't mind observed Fagin . 
'What should he have to mind ? 'Really nothing , my dear , said Fagin , turning to Mr. Bolter , 'really nothing . 
'Oh , I dare say about that , yer know , observed Noah , backing towards the door , and shaking his head with a kind of sober alarm . 
'No , no none of that . 
It's not in my department , that ain't . 
'Wot department has he got , Fagin ? inquired Master Bates , surveying Noah's lank form with much disgust . 
By Fagin's directions , he immediately substituted for his own attire , a waggoner's frock , velveteen breeches , and leather leggings all of which articles the Jew had at hand . 
He was likewise furnished with a felt hat well garnished with turnpike tickets and a carter's whip . 
the full majesty of justice . 
The room smelt close and unwholesome the walls were dirt discoloured and the ceiling blackened . 
'Hold your tongue , will you ? said the jailer . 
'I'm an Englishman , ain't I ? rejoined the Dodger . 
'Where are my priwileges ? 'You'll get your privileges soon enough , retorted the jailer , 'and pepper with 'em . 
'We'll see wot the Secretary of State for the Home Affairs has got to say to the beaks , if I don't , replied Mr. Dawkins . 
Which so tickled the spectators , that they laughed almost as heartily as Master Bates could have done if he had heard the request . 
'Silence there ! cried the jailer . 
'What is this ? inquired one of the magistrates . 
'A pick pocketing case , your worship . 
'Has the boy ever been here before ? 'He ought to have been , a many times , replied the jailer . 
'He has been pretty well everywhere else . 
I know him well , your worship . 
'Oh ! you know me , do you ? cried the Artful , making a note of the statement . 
That's a case of deformation of character , any way . 
Here there was another laugh , and another cry of silence . 
'Now then , where are the witnesses ? said the clerk . 
'Ah ! that's right , added the Dodger . 
'Where are they ? I should like to see 'em . 
He had also remarked a young gentleman in the throng , particularly active in making his way about , and that young gentleman was the prisoner before him . 
'Have you anything to ask this witness , boy ? said the magistrate . 
'I wouldn't abase myself by descending to hold no conversation with him' replied the Dodger . 
'Have you anything to say at all ? 'Do you hear his worship ask if you've anything to say ? inquired the jailer , nudging the silent Dodger with his elbow . 
'I beg your pardon , said the Dodger , looking up with an air of abstraction . 
'Did you redress yourself to me , my man ? 'I never see such an out and out young wagabond , your worship , observed the officer with a grin . 
I'll 'There ! He's fully committed ! interposed the clerk . 
'Come on , said the jailer . 
'Oh ah ! I'll come on , replied the Dodger , brushing his hat with the palm of his hand . 
it's no use your looking frightened I won't show you no mercy , not a ha'porth of it . 
YOU'LL pay for this , my fine fellers . 
I wouldn't be you for something ! I wouldn't go free , now , if you was to fall down on your knees and ask me . 
Having seen him locked up by himself in a little cell , Noah made the best of his way back to where he had left Master Bates . 
The two hastened back together , to bear to Mr. Fagin the animating news that the Dodger was doing full justice to his bringing up , and establishing for himself a glorious reputation . 
CHAPTER XLIV THE TIME ARRIVES FOR NANCY TO REDEEM HER PLEDGE TO ROSE MAYLIE . 
Though all her mental struggles terminated in this conclusion , they forced themselves upon her , again and again , and left their traces too . 
She grew pale and thin , even within a few days . 
At times , she took no heed of what was passing before her , or no part in conversations where once , she would have been the loudest . 
It was Sunday night , and the bell of the nearest church struck the hour . 
Sikes and the Jew were talking , but they paused to listen . 
The girl looked up from the low seat on which she crouched , and listened too . 
'An hour this side of midnight , said Sikes , raising the blind to look out and returning to his seat . 
'Dark and heavy it is too . 
A good night for business this . 
'What a pity , Bill , my dear , that there's none quite ready to be done . 
'You're right for once , replied Sikes gruffly . 
'It is a pity , for I'm in the humour too . 
Fagin sighed , and shook his head despondingly . 
'We must make up for lost time when we've got things into a good train . 
That's all I know , said Sikes . 
'That's the way to talk , my dear , replied Fagin , venturing to pat him on the shoulder . 
'It does me good to hear you . 
'Does you good , does it ! cried Sikes . 
'Well , so be it . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! laughed Fagin , as if he were relieved by even this concession . 
'You're like yourself to night , Bill . 
'I don't feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder , so take it away , said Sikes , casting off the Jew's hand . 
'It make you nervous , Bill , reminds you of being nabbed , does it ? said Fagin , determined not to be offended . 
'Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil , returned Sikes . 
Where's the gal going to at this time of night ? 'Not far . 
'What answer's that ? retorted Sikes . 
'Do you hear me ? 'I don't know where , replied the girl . 
'Then I do , said Sikes , more in the spirit of obstinacy than because he had any real objection to the girl going where she listed . 
I told you that before , rejoined the girl . 
'I want a breath of air . 
'Put your head out of the winder , replied Sikes . 
'There's not enough there , said the girl . 
'I want it in the street . 
'Then you won't have it , replied Sikes . 
With which assurance he rose , locked the door , took the key out , and pulling her bonnet from her head , flung it up to the top of an old press . 
'There , said the robber . 
'Now stop quietly where you are , will you ? 'It's not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me , said the girl turning very pale . 
'You'll drive me on the something desperate , muttered the girl placing both hands upon her breast , as though to keep down by force some violent outbreak . 
'Let me go , will you , this minute this instant . 
'Tell him to let me go , Fagin . 
It'll be better for him . 
Do you hear me ? cried Nancy stamping her foot upon the ground . 
'Hear you ! repeated Sikes turning round in his chair to confront her . 
'Aye ! And if I hear you for half a minute longer , the dog shall have such a grip on your throat as'll tear some of that screaming voice out . 
'Not till you let me go not till you let me go Never never ! screamed the girl . 
She struggled and implored by turns until twelve o'clock had struck , and then , wearied and exhausted , ceased to contest the point any further . 
With a caution , backed by many oaths , to make no more efforts to go out that night , Sikes left her to recover at leisure and rejoined Fagin . 
'Whew ! said the housebreaker wiping the perspiration from his face . 
'Wot a precious strange gal that is ! 'You may say that , Bill , replied Fagin thoughtfully . 
'Wot did she take it into her head to go out to night for , do you think ? asked Sikes . 
'Come you should know her better than me . 
Wot does is mean ? 'Obstinacy woman's obstinacy , I suppose , my dear . 
'Well , I suppose it is , growled Sikes . 
'I thought I had tamed her , but she's as bad as ever . 
'Worse , said Fagin thoughtfully . 
'I never knew her like this , for such a little cause . 
'Nor I , said Sikes . 
'I think she's got a touch of that fever in her blood yet , and it won't come out eh ? 'Like enough . 
'I'll let her a little blood , without troubling the doctor , if she's took that way again , said Sikes . 
Fagin nodded an expressive approval of this mode of treatment . 
'Hush ! As he uttered these words , the girl herself appeared and resumed her former seat . 
Her eyes were swollen and red she rocked herself to and fro tossed her head and , after a little time , burst out laughing . 
'Why , now she's on the other tack ! exclaimed Sikes , turning a look of excessive surprise on his companion . 
Fagin nodded to him to take no further notice just then and , in a few minutes , the girl subsided into her accustomed demeanour . 
Whispering Sikes that there was no fear of her relapsing , Fagin took up his hat and bade him good night . 
He paused when he reached the room door , and looking round , asked if somebody would light him down the dark stairs . 
'Light him down , said Sikes , who was filling his pipe . 
'It's a pity he should break his neck himself , and disappoint the sight seers . 
Nancy followed the old man downstairs , with a candle . 
When they reached the passage , he laid his finger on his lip , and drawing close to the girl , said , in a whisper . 
'What is it , Nancy , dear ? 'What do you mean ? replied the girl , in the same tone . 
'The reason of all this , replied Fagin . 
, why don't you 'Well ? said the girl , as Fagin paused , with his mouth almost touching her ear , and his eyes looking into hers . 
We'll talk of this again . 
You have a friend in me , Nance a staunch friend . 
I have the means at hand , quiet and close . 
If you want revenge on those that treat you like a dog like a dog ! worse than his dog , for he humours him sometimes come to me . 
I say , come to me . 
He is the mere hound of a day , but you know me of old , Nance . 
'I know you well , replied the girls , without manifesting the least emotion . 
Fagin walked towards his home , intent upon the thoughts that were working within his brain . 
The object of this new liking was not among his myrmidons . 
There was another , and a darker object , to be gained . 
Sikes knew too much , and his ruffian taunts had not galled Fagin the less , because the wounds were hidden . 
There was no expression of surprise , no assumption of an inability to understand his meaning . 
The girl clearly comprehended it . 
Her glance at parting showed THAT . 
But perhaps she would recoil from a plot to take the life of Sikes , and that was one of the chief ends to be attained . 
'How , thought Fagin , as he crept homeward , 'can I increase my influence with her ? what new power can I acquire ? Such brains are fertile in expedients . 
unless she entered into his designs , could he not secure her compliance ? 'I can , said Fagin , almost aloud . 
'She durst not refuse me then . 
Not for her life , not for her life ! I have it all . 
The means are ready , and shall be set to work . 
'Bolter , said Fagin , drawing up a chair and seating himself opposite Morris Bolter . 
'Well , here I am , returned Noah . 
'What's the matter ? Don't yer ask me to do anything till I have done eating . 
That's a great fault in this place . 
Yer never get time enough over yer meals . 
'You can talk as you eat , can't you ? said Fagin , cursing his dear young friend's greediness from the very bottom of his heart . 
'Oh yes , I can talk . 
I get on better when I talk , said Noah , cutting a monstrous slice of bread . 
'Where's Charlotte ? 'Out , said Fagin . 
'I sent her out this morning with the other young woman , because I wanted us to be alone . 
'I wish yer'd ordered her to make some buttered toast first . 
There seemed , indeed , no great fear of anything interrupting him , as he had evidently sat down with a determination to do a great deal of business . 
'You did well yesterday , my dear , said Fagin . 
'Beautiful ! Six shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day ! The kinchin lay will be a fortune to you . 
'Don't you forget to add three pint pots and a milk can , said Mr. Bolter . 
'No , no , my dear . 
The pint pots were great strokes of genius but the milk can was a perfect masterpiece . 
'Pretty well , I think , for a beginner , remarked Mr. Bolter complacently . 
'The pots I took off airy railings , and the milk can was standing by itself outside a public house . 
I thought it might get rusty with the rain , or catch cold , yer know . 
'I want you , Bolter , said Fagin , leaning over the table , 'to do a piece of work for me , my dear , that needs great care and caution . 
'I say , rejoined Bolter , 'don't yer go shoving me into danger , or sending me any more o' yer police offices . 
That don't suit me , that don't and so I tell yer . 
'That's not the smallest danger in it not the very smallest , said the Jew 'it's only to dodge a woman . 
'An old woman ? demanded Mr. Bolter . 
'A young one , replied Fagin . 
'I can do that pretty well , I know , said Bolter . 
'I was a regular cunning sneak when I was at school . 
'What'll yer give me ? asked Noah , setting down his cup , and looking his employer , eagerly , in the face . 
'If you do it well , a pound , my dear . 
One pound , said Fagin , wishing to interest him in the scent as much as possible . 
'And that's what I never gave yet , for any job of work where there wasn't valuable consideration to be gained . 
'Who is she ? inquired Noah . 
'Oh Lor ! cried Noah , curling up his nose . 
'Yer doubtful of her , are yer ? 'She had found out some new friends , my dear , and I must know who they are , replied Fagin . 
'I see , said Noah . 
'Just to have the pleasure of knowing them , if they're respectable people , eh ? Ha ! ha ! ha ! I'm your man . 
'I knew you would be , cried Fagin , eleated by the success of his proposal . 
'Of course , of course , replied Noah . 
'Where is she ? Where am I to wait for her ? Where am I to go ? 'All that , my dear , you shall hear from me . 
I'll point her out at the proper time , said Fagin . 
'You keep ready , and leave the rest to me . 
That night , and the next , and the next again , the spy sat booted and equipped in his carter's dress ready to turn out at a word from Fagin . 
Six nights passed six long weary nights and on each , Fagin came home with a disappointed face , and briefly intimated that it was not yet time . 
On the seventh , he returned earlier , and with an exultation he could not conceal . 
Quick ! Noah started up without saying a word for the Jew was in a state of such intense excitement that it infected him . 
It was past eleven o'clock , and the door was closed . 
It opened softly on its hinges as Fagin gave a low whistle . 
They entered , without noise and the door was closed behind them . 
'Is that the woman ? he asked , scarcely above his breath . 
'I can't see her face well , whispered Noah . 
'She is looking down , and the candle is behind her . 
'Stay there , whispered Fagin . 
He signed to Barney , who withdrew . 
'I see her now , cried the spy . 
'Plainly ? 'I should know her among a thousand . 
He hastily descended , as the room door opened , and the girl came out . 
'Hist ! cried the lad who held the door . 
Noah exchanged a look with Fagin , and darted out . 
'To the left , whispered the lad 'take the left had , and keep od the other side . 
He did so and , by the light of the lamps , saw the girl's retreating figure , already at some distance before him . 
He advanced as near as he considered prudent , and kept on the opposite side of the street , the better to observe her motions . 
She looked nervously round , twice or thrice , and once stopped to let two men who were following close behind her , pass on . 
She seemed to gather courage as she advanced , and to walk with a steadier and firmer step . 
The spy preserved the same relative distance between them , and followed with his eye upon her . 
CHAPTER XLVI THE APPOINTMENT KEPT The church clocks chimed three quarters past eleven , as two figures emerged on London Bridge . 
Thus , they crossed the bridge , from the Middlesex to the Surrey shore , when the woman , apparently disappointed in her anxious scrutiny of the foot passengers , turned back . 
When she was about the same distance in advance as she had been before , he slipped quietly down , and followed her again . 
At nearly the centre of the bridge , she stopped . 
It was a very dark night . 
The day had been unfavourable , and at that hour and place there were few people stirring . 
Such as there were , hurried quickly past very possibly without seeing , but certainly without noticing , either the woman , or the man who kept her in view . 
The girl had taken a few restless turns to and fro closely watched meanwhile by her hidden observer when the heavy bell of St . 
Paul's tolled for the death of another day . 
Midnight had come upon the crowded city . 
They had scarcely set foot upon its pavement , when the girl started , and immediately made towards them . 
They halted with an exclamation of surprise , but suppressed it immediately for a man in the garments of a countryman came close up brushed against them , indeed at that precise moment . 
'Not here , said Nancy hurriedly , 'I am afraid to speak to you here . 
To this spot , the man bearing the appearance of a countryman , hastened unobserved and after a moment's survey of the place , he began to descend . 
These stairs are a part of the bridge they consist of three flights . 
Just below the end of the second , going down , the stone wall on the left terminates in an ornamental pilaster facing towards the Thames . 
He drew himself straight upright against the wall , and , scarcely breathing , listened attentively . 
'This is far enough , said a voice , which was evidently that of the gentleman . 
'I will not suffer the young lady to go any farther . 
Many people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far , but you see I am willing to humour you . 
'To humour me ! cried the voice of the girl whom he had followed . 
'You're considerate , indeed , sir . 
To humour me ! Well , well , it's no matter . 
I don't know why it is , said the girl , shuddering , 'but I have such a fear and dread upon me to night that I can hardly stand . 
'A fear of what ? asked the gentleman , who seemed to pity her . 
'I scarcely know of what , replied the girl . 
Horrible thoughts of death , and shrouds with blood upon them , and a fear that has made me burn as if I was on fire , have been upon me all day . 
I was reading a book to night , to wile the time away , and the same things came into the print . 
'Imagination , said the gentleman , soothing her . 
'No imagination , replied the girl in a hoarse voice . 
'I'll swear I saw coffin written in every page of the book in large black letters , aye , and they carried one close to me , in the streets to night . 
'There is nothing unusual in that , said the gentleman . 
'They have passed me often . 
'REAL ONES , rejoined the girl . 
There was something so uncommon in her manner , that the flesh of the concealed listener crept as he heard the girl utter these words , and the blood chilled within him . 
'Speak to her kindly , said the young lady to her companion . 
'Poor creature ! She seems to need it . 
'Your haughty religious people would have held their heads up to see me as I am to night , and preached of flames and vengeance , cried the girl . 
The gentleman , shortly afterwards , addressed himself to her . 
'You were not here last Sunday night , he said . 
'I couldn't come , replied Nancy 'I was kept by force . 
'By whom ? 'Him that I told the young lady of before . 
'You were not suspected of holding any communication with anybody on the subject which has brought us here to night , I hope ? asked the old gentleman . 
'No , replied the girl , shaking her head . 
'It's not very easy for me to leave him unless he knows why I couldn't give him a drink of laudanum before I came away . 
'Did he awake before you returned ? inquired the gentleman . 
'No and neither he nor any of them suspect me . 
'Good , said the gentleman . 
'I am ready , replied the girl , as he paused for a moment . 
'This young lady , the gentleman began , 'has communicated to me , and to some other friends who can be safely trusted , what you told her nearly a fortnight since . 
I confess to you that I had doubts , at first , whether you were to be implicitly relied upon , but now I firmly believe you are . 
'I am , said the girl earnestly . 
'I repeat that I firmly believe it . 
But if if said the gentleman , 'he cannot be secured , or , if secured , cannot be acted upon as we wish , you must deliver up the Jew . 
'Fagin , cried the girl , recoiling . 
'That man must be delivered up by you , said the gentleman . 
'I will not do it ! I will never do it ! replied the girl . 
'Devil that he is , and worse than devil as he has been to me , I will never do that . 
'You will not ? said the gentleman , who seemed fully prepared for this answer . 
'Never ! returned the girl . 
'And if it is not ? suggested the girl . 
'Then , pursued the gentleman , 'this Fagin shall not be brought to justice without your consent . 
In such a case I could show you reasons , I think , which would induce you to yield it . 
'Have I the lady's promise for that ? asked the girl . 
'You have , replied Rose . 
'My true and faithful pledge . 
'Monks would never learn how you knew what you do ? said the girl , after a short pause . 
'Never , replied the gentleman . 
'The intelligence should be brought to bear upon him , that he could never even guess . 
'I have been a liar , and among liars from a little child , said the girl after another interval of silence , 'but I will take your words . 
From the manner in which she occasionally paused , it appeared as if the gentleman were making some hasty notes of the information she communicated . 
Don't forget that , for his eyes are sunk in his head so much deeper than any other man's , that you might almost tell him by that alone . 
His face is dark , like his hair and eyes and , although he can't be more than six or eight and twenty , withered and haggard . 
The gentleman replied , in a hurried manner , that he was not conscious of having done so , and begged her to proceed . 
I think that's all I can give you to know him by . 
Stay though , she added . 
'How's this ? said the girl . 
'You know him ! The young lady uttered a cry of surprise , and for a few moments they were so still that the listener could distinctly hear them breathe . 
'I think I do , said the gentleman , breaking silence . 
'I should by your description . 
Many people are singularly like each other . 
It may not be the same . 
What can I do to serve you ? 'Nothing , replied Nancy . 
'You will not persist in saying that , rejoined the gentleman , with a voice and emphasis of kindness that might have touched a much harder and more obdurate heart . 
'Nothing , sir , rejoined the girl , weeping . 
'You can do nothing to help me . 
I am past all hope , indeed . 
'You put yourself beyond its pale , said the gentleman . 
Quit them all , while there is time and opportunity ! 'She will be persuaded now , cried the young lady . 
'She hesitates , I am sure . 
'I fear not , my dear , said the gentleman . 
'No sir , I do not , replied the girl , after a short struggle . 
'I am chained to my old life . 
I loathe and hate it now , but I cannot leave it . 
But , she said , looking hastily round , 'this fear comes over me again . 
'Home ! repeated the young lady , with great stress upon the word . 
'Home , lady , rejoined the girl . 
'To such a home as I have raised for myself with the work of my whole life . 
I shall be watched or seen . 
Go ! Go ! If I have done you any service all I ask is , that you leave me , and let me go my way alone . 
'It is useless , said the gentleman , with a sigh . 
'We compromise her safety , perhaps , by staying here . 
We may have detained her longer than she expected already . 
'Yes , yes , urged the girl . 
'What , cried the young lady . 
'can be the end of this poor creature's life ! 'What ! repeated the girl . 
'Look before you , lady . 
Look at that dark water . 
How many times do you read of such as I who spring into the tide , and leave no living thing , to care for , or bewail them . 
It may be years hence , or it may be only months , but I shall come to that at last . 
'Do not speak thus , pray , returned the young lady , sobbing . 
'It will never reach your ears , dear lady , and God forbid such horrors should ! replied the girl . 
'Good night , good night ! The gentleman turned away . 
'This purse , cried the young lady . 
'Take it for my sake , that you may have some resource in an hour of need and trouble . 
'No ! replied the girl . 
'I have not done this for money . 
Let me have that to think of . 
Bless you ! God bless you . 
The sound of retreating footsteps were audible and the voices ceased . 
The two figures of the young lady and her companion soon afterwards appeared upon the bridge . 
They stopped at the summit of the stairs . 
'Hark ! cried the young lady , listening . 
'Did she call ! I thought I heard her voice . 
'No , my love , replied Mr. Brownlow , looking sadly back . 
'She has not moved , and will not till we are gone . 
Rose Maylie lingered , but the old gentleman drew her arm through his , and led her , with gentle force , away . 
As they disappeared , the girl sunk down nearly at her full length upon one of the stone stairs , and vented the anguish of her heart in bitter tears . 
After a time she arose , and with feeble and tottering steps ascended the street . 
He sat crouching over a cold hearth , wrapped in an old torn coverlet , with his face turned towards a wasting candle that stood upon a table by his side . 
Stretched upon a mattress on the floor , lay Noah Claypole , fast asleep . 
'At last , he muttered , wiping his dry and fevered mouth . 
'At last ! The bell rang gently as he spoke . 
He crept upstairs to the door , and presently returned accompanied by a man muffled to the chin , who carried a bundle under one arm . 
Sitting down and throwing back his outer coat , the man displayed the burly frame of Sikes . 
'There ! he said , laying the bundle on the table . 
'Take care of that , and do the most you can with it . 
It's been trouble enough to get I thought I should have been here , three hours ago . 
Fagin laid his hand upon the bundle , and locking it in the cupboard , sat down again without speaking . 
'Wot now ? cried Sikes . 
'Damme ! said Sikes , feeling in his breast with a look of alarm . 
I must look to myself here . 
'No , no , rejoined Fagin , finding his voice . 
'It's not you're not the person , Bill . 
I've no no fault to find with you . 
'Oh , you haven't , haven't you ? said Sikes , looking sternly at him , and ostentatiously passing a pistol into a more convenient pocket . 
'That's lucky for one of us . 
Which one that is , don't matter . 
'I've got that to tell you , Bill , said Fagin , drawing his chair nearer , 'will make you worse than me . 
'Aye ? returned the robber with an incredulous air . 
'Tell away ! Look sharp , or Nance will think I'm lost . 
'She has pretty well settled that , in her own mind , already . 
'Speak , will you ! he said 'or if you don't , it shall be for want of breath . 
Open your mouth and say wot you've got to say in plain words . 
Out with it , you thundering old cur , out with it ! 'Suppose that lad that's laying there Fagin began . 
Sikes turned round to where Noah was sleeping , as if he had not previously observed him . 
'Well ! he said , resuming his former position . 
Do you hear me ? cried the Jew , his eyes flashing with rage . 
'Suppose he did all this , what then ? 'What then ! replied Sikes with a tremendous oath . 
'If he was left alive till I came , I'd grind his skull under the iron heel of my boot into as many grains as there are hairs upon his head . 
'What if I did it ! cried Fagin almost in a yell . 
'I , that knows so much , and could hang so many besides myself ! 'I don't know , replied Sikes , clenching his teeth and turning white at the mere suggestion . 
I should have such strength , muttered the robber , poising his brawny arm , 'that I could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over it . 
'You would ? 'Would I ! said the housebreaker . 
'If it was Charley , or the Dodger , or Bet , or 'I don't care who , replied Sikes impatiently . 
'Whoever it was , I'd serve them the same . 
Fagin looked hard at the robber and , motioning him to be silent , stooped over the bed upon the floor , and shook the sleeper to rouse him . 
Sikes leant forward in his chair looking on with his hands upon his knees , as if wondering much what all this questioning and preparation was to end in . 
'Bolter , Bolter ! Poor lad ! said Fagin , looking up with an expression of devilish anticipation , and speaking slowly and with marked emphasis . 
'He's tired tired with watching for her so long , watching for her , Bill . 
'Wot d'ye mean ? asked Sikes , drawing back . 
Fagin made no answer , but bending over the sleeper again , hauled him into a sitting posture . 
When his assumed name had been repeated several times , Noah rubbed his eyes , and , giving a heavy yawn , looked sleepily about him . 
'Tell me that again once again , just for him to hear , said the Jew , pointing to Sikes as he spoke . 
'Tell yer what ? asked the sleepy Noah , shaking himself pettishy . 
'That about NANCY , said Fagin , clutching Sikes by the wrist , as if to prevent his leaving the house before he had heard enough . 
'You followed her ? 'Yes . 
'To London Bridge ? 'Yes . 
'Where she met two people . 
She told it all every word without a threat , without a murmur she did did she not ? cried Fagin , half mad with fury . 
'All right , replied Noah , scratching his head . 
'That's just what it was ! 'What did they say , about last Sunday ? 'About last Sunday ! replied Noah , considering . 
'Why I told yer that before . 
Tell it again ! cried Fagin , tightening his grasp on Sikes , and brandishing his other hand aloft , as the foam flew from his lips . 
'Why why ? Tell him that . 
'Because she was forcibly kept at home by Bill , the man she had told them of before , replied Noah . 
'What more of him ? cried Fagin . 
'What more of the man she had told them of before ? Tell him that , tell him that . 
'Hell's fire ! cried Sikes , breaking fiercely from the Jew . 
'Let me go ! Flinging the old man from him , he rushed from the room , and darted , wildly and furiously , up the stairs . 
'Bill , Bill ! cried Fagin , following him hastily . 
'Let me out , said Sikes . 
'Don't speak to me it's not safe . 
Let me out , I say ! 'Hear me speak a word , rejoined Fagin , laying his hand upon the lock . 
'You won't be 'Well , replied the other . 
'You won't be too violent , Bill ? The day was breaking , and there was light enough for the men to see each other's faces . 
They exchanged one brief glance there was a fire in the eyes of both , which could not be mistaken . 
'I mean , said Fagin , showing that he felt all disguise was now useless , 'not too violent for safety . 
Be crafty , Bill , and not too bold . 
Sikes made no reply but , pulling open the door , of which Fagin had turned the lock , dashed into the silent streets . 
The girl was lying , half dressed , upon it . 
He had roused her from her sleep , for she raised herself with a hurried and startled look . 
'Get up ! said the man . 
'It is you , Bill ! said the girl , with an expression of pleasure at his return . 
'It is , was the reply . 
There was a candle burning , but the man hastily drew it from the candlestick , and hurled it under the grate . 
Seeing the faint light of early day without , the girl rose to undraw the curtain . 
'Let it be , said Sikes , thrusting his hand before her . 
'There's enough light for wot I've got to do . 
'You were watched to night every word you said was heard . 
'Then spare my life for the love of Heaven , as I spared yours , rejoined the girl , clinging to him . 
'Bill , dear Bill , you cannot have the heart to kill me . 
Oh ! think of all I have given up , only this one night , for you . 
You SHALL have time to think , and save yourself this crime I will not loose my hold , you cannot throw me off . 
It is never too late to repent . 
They told me so I feel it now but we must have time a little , little time ! The housebreaker freed one arm , and grasped his pistol . 
It was a ghastly figure to look upon . 
The murderer staggering backward to the wall , and shutting out the sight with his hand , seized a heavy club and struck her down . 
Of all the horrors that rose with an ill scent upon the morning air , that was the foulest and most cruel . 
Through costly coloured glass and paper mended window , through cathedral dome and rotten crevice , it shed its equal ray . 
It lighted up the room where the murdered woman lay . 
He tried to shut it out , but it would stream in . 
There had been a moan and motion of the hand and , with terror added to rage , he had struck and struck again . 
He had plucked it off again . 
There was hair upon the end , which blazed and shrunk into a light cinder , and , caught by the air , whirled up the chimney . 
Even that frightened him , sturdy as he was but he held the weapon till it broke , and then piled it on the coals to burn away , and smoulder into ashes . 
He washed himself , and rubbed his clothes there were spots that would not be removed , but he cut the pieces out , and burnt them . 
How those stains were dispersed about the room ! The very feet of the dog were bloody . 
All this time he had , never once , turned his back upon the corpse no , not for a moment . 
He shut the door softly , locked it , took the key , and left the house . 
He crossed over , and glanced up at the window , to be sure that nothing was visible from the outside . 
There was the curtain still drawn , which she would have opened to admit the light she never saw again . 
It lay nearly under there . 
God , how the sun poured down upon the very spot ! The glance was instantaneous . 
It was a relief to have got free of the room . 
He whistled on the dog , and walked rapidly away . 
Where could he go , that was near and not too public , to get some meat and drink ? Hendon . 
That was a good place , not far off , and out of most people's way . 
But when he got there , all the people he met the very children at the doors seemed to view him with suspicion . 
He wandered over miles and miles of ground , and still came back to the old place . 
At last he got away , and shaped his course for Hatfield . 
There was a fire in the tap room , and some country labourers were drinking before it . 
There was nothing to attract attention , or excite alarm in this . 
'And what be that stoof ? Good to eat , Harry ? asked a grinning countryman , pointing to some composition cakes in one corner . 
Wine stains , fruit stains , beer stains , water stains , paint stains , pitch stains , any stains , all come out at one rub with the infallible and invaluable composition . 
If a lady stains her honour , she has only need to swallow one cake and she's cured at once for it's poison . 
With all these virtues , one penny a square ! There were two buyers directly , and more of the listeners plainly hesitated . 
The vendor observing this , increased in loquacity . 
'It's all bought up as fast as it can be made , said the fellow . 
One penny a square ! Two half pence is all the same , and four farthings is received with joy . 
'Hah ! cried Sikes starting up . 
'I'll take it clean out , sir , replied the man , winking to the company , 'before you can come across the room to get it . 
Gentlemen all , observe the dark stain upon this gentleman's hat , no wider than a shilling , but thicker than a half crown . 
He almost knew what was to come but he crossed over , and listened . 
The guard was standing at the door , waiting for the letter bag . 
A man , dressed like a game keeper , came up at the moment , and he handed him a basket which lay ready on the pavement . 
'That's for your people , said the guard . 
'Now , look alive in there , will you . 
'No , nothing that I knows on , replied the man , pulling on his gloves . 
I heerd talk of a murder , too , down Spitalfields way , but I don't reckon much upon it . 
'Oh , that's quite true , said a gentleman inside , who was looking out of the window . 
'And a dreadful murder it was . 
'Was it , sir ? rejoined the guard , touching his hat . 
'Man or woman , pray , sir ? 'A woman , replied the gentleman . 
'It is supposed 'Now , Ben , replied the coachman impatiently . 
'Damn that 'ere bag , said the guard 'are you gone to sleep in there ? 'Coming ! cried the office keeper , running out . 
'Coming , growled the guard . 
'Ah , and so's the young 'ooman of property that's going to take a fancy to me , but I don't know when . 
All ri ight ! The horn sounded a few cheerful notes , and the coach was gone . 
Sikes remained standing in the street , apparently unmoved by what he had just heard , and agitated by no stronger feeling than a doubt where to go . 
At length he went back again , and took the road which leads from Hatfield to St . 
He could trace its shadow in the gloom , supply the smallest item of the outline , and note how stiff and solemn it seemed to stalk along . 
He could hear its garments rustling in the leaves , and every breath of wind came laden with that last low cry . 
If he stopped it did the same . 
He had kept it before him that morning , but it was behind now always . 
He leaned his back against a bank , and felt that it stood above him , visibly out against the cold night sky . 
He threw himself upon the road on his back upon the road . 
At his head it stood , silent , erect , and still a living grave stone , with its epitaph in blood . 
Let no man talk of murderers escaping justice , and hint that Providence must sleep . 
There were twenty score of violent deaths in one long minute of that agony of fear . 
There was a shed in a field he passed , that offered shelter for the night . 
Before the door , were three tall poplar trees , which made it very dark within and the wind moaned through them with a dismal wail . 
He COULD NOT walk on , till daylight came again and here he stretched himself close to the wall to undergo new torture . 
For now , a vision came before him , as constant and more terrible than that from which he had escaped . 
There were but two , but they were everywhere . 
The body was in ITS place , and its eyes were as he saw them when he stole away . 
He got up , and rushed into the field without . 
The figure was behind him . 
He re entered the shed , and shrunk down once more . 
The eyes were there , before he had laid himself along . 
Any sound of men in that lonely place , even though it conveyed a real cause of alarm , was something to him . 
He regained his strength and energy at the prospect of personal danger and springing to his feet , rushed into the open air . 
The broad sky seemed on fire . 
The noise increased as he looked . 
There were people there men and women light , bustle . 
It was like new life to him . 
He darted onward straight , headlong dashing through brier and brake , and leaping gate and fence as madly as his dog , who careered with loud and sounding bark before him . 
He came upon the spot . 
Women and children shrieked , and men encouraged each other with noisy shouts and cheers . 
The clanking of the engine pumps , and the spirting and hissing of the water as it fell upon the blazing wood , added to the tremendous roar . 
He shouted , too , till he was hoarse and flying from memory and himself , plunged into the thickest of the throng . 
This mad excitement over , there returned , with ten fold force , the dreadful consciousness of his crime . 
He looked suspiciously about him , for the men were conversing in groups , and he feared to be the subject of their talk . 
The dog obeyed the significant beck of his finger , and they drew off , stealthily , together . 
He passed near an engine where some men were seated , and they called to him to share in their refreshment . 
He took some bread and meat and as he drank a draught of beer , heard the firemen , who were from London , talking about the murder . 
He hurried off , and walked till he almost dropped upon the ground then lay down in a lane , and had a long , but broken and uneasy sleep . 
He wandered on again , irresolute and undecided , and oppressed with the fear of another solitary night . 
Suddenly , he took the desperate resolution to going back to London . 
'There's somebody to speak to there , at all event , he thought . 
'A good hiding place , too . 
They'll never expect to nab me there , after this country scent . 
Why can't I lie by for a week or so , and , forcing blunt from Fagin , get abroad to France ? Damme , I'll risk it . 
If any description of him were out , it would not be forgotten that the dog was missing , and had probably gone with him . 
This might lead to his apprehension as he passed along the streets . 
He resolved to drown him , and walked on , looking about for a pond picking up a heavy stone and tying it to his handerkerchief as he went . 
When his master halted at the brink of a pool , and looked round to call him , he stopped outright . 
'Do you hear me call ? Come here ! cried Sikes . 
The animal came up from the very force of habit but as Sikes stooped to attach the handkerchief to his throat , he uttered a low growl and started back . 
'Come back ! said the robber . 
The dog wagged his tail , but moved not . 
Sikes made a running noose and called him again . 
The dog advanced , retreated , paused an instant , and scoured away at his hardest speed . 
The man whistled again and again , and sat down and waited in the expectation that he would return . 
But no dog appeared , and at length he resumed his journey . 
CHAPTER XLIX MONKS AND MR . 
THEIR CONVERSATION , AND THE INTELLIGENCE THAT INTERRUPTS IT The twilight was beginning to close in , when Mr. Brownlow alighted from a hackney coach at his own door , and knocked softly . 
At a sign from Mr. Brownlow , they helped out a third man , and taking him between them , hurried him into the house . 
They walked in the same manner up the stairs without speaking , and Mr. Brownlow , preceding them , led the way into a back room . 
At the door of this apartment , Monks , who had ascended with evident reluctance , stopped . 
The two men looked at the old gentleman as if for instructions . 
'He knows the alternative , said Mr. Browlow . 
'How dare you say this of me ? asked Monks . 
'How dare you urge me to it , young man ? replied Mr. Brownlow , confronting him with a steady look . 
'Are you mad enough to leave this house ? Unhand him . 
You are free to go , and we to follow . 
But I warn you , by all I hold most solemn and most sacred , that instant will have you apprehended on a charge of fraud and robbery . 
I am resolute and immoveable . 
'By mine , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'Those persons are indemnified by me . 
Monks was plainly disconcerted , and alarmed besides . 
'You will decide quickly , said Mr. Brownlow , with perfect firmness and composure . 
If not , and you appeal to my forbearance , and the mercy of those you have deeply injured , seat yourself , without a word , in that chair . 
It has waited for you two whole days . 
Monks muttered some unintelligible words , but wavered still . 
'You will be prompt , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'A word from me , and the alternative has gone for ever . 
'I have not the inclination to parley , said Mr. Brownlow , 'and , as I advocate the dearest interests of others , I have not the right . 
'Is there demanded Monks with a faltering tongue , 'is there no middle course ? 'None . 
'Lock the door on the outside , said Mr. Brownlow to the attendants , 'and come when I ring . 
The men obeyed , and the two were left alone together . 
'This is pretty treatment , sir , said Monks , throwing down his hat and cloak , 'from my father's oldest friend . 
'What has the name to do with it ? asked the other , after contemplating , half in silence , and half in dogged wonder , the agitation of his companion . 
'What is the name to me ? 'Nothing , replied Mr. Brownlow , 'nothing to you . 
I am very glad you have changed it very very . 
after a long silence , during which he had jerked himself in sullen defiance to and fro , and Mr. Brownlow had sat , shading his face with his hand . 
'I have no brother , replied Monks . 
'You know I was an only child . 
Why do you talk to me of brothers ? You know that , as well as I. 'Attend to what I do know , and you may not , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'I shall interest you by and by . 
'I don't care for hard names , interrupted Monks with a jeering laugh . 
'You know the fact , and that's enough for me . 
'But I also know , pursued the old gentleman , 'the misery , the slow torture , the protracted anguish of that ill assorted union . 
I know how listlessly and wearily each of that wretched pair dragged on their heavy chain through a world that was poisoned to them both . 
Your mother succeeded she forgot it soon . 
But it rusted and cankered at your father's heart for years . 
This circumstance , at least , you know already . 
'Not I , said Monks , turning away his eyes and beating his foot upon the ground , as a man who is determined to deny everything . 
'Not I. 'Your manner , no less than your actions , assures me that you have never forgotten it , or ceased to think of it with bitterness , returned Mr. Brownlow . 
'You must talk on if you will . 
They were both daughters one a beautiful creature of nineteen , and the other a mere child of two or three years old . 
'What's this to me ? asked Monks . 
Acquaintance , intimacy , friendship , fast followed on each other . 
Your father was gifted as few men are . 
He had his sister's soul and person . 
As the old officer knew him more and more , he grew to love him . 
I would that it had ended there . 
His daughter did the same . 
'Your tale is of the longest , observed Monks , moving restlessly in his chair . 
It was necessary that he should immediately repair to Rome , whither this man had sped for health , and where he had died , leaving his affairs in great confusion . 
At this part of the recital Monks held his breath , and listened with a face of intense eagerness , though his eyes were not directed towards the speaker . 
As Mr. Brownlow paused , he changed his position with the air of one who has experienced a sudden relief , and wiped his hot face and hands . 
'I never heard of that , interrupted MOnks in a tone intended to appear incredulous , but savouring more of disagreeable surprise . 
Alas ! THAT was the last time . 
I had no letter , and I never saw him more . 
The family had left that part a week before they had called in such trifling debts as were outstanding , discharged them , and left the place by night . 
Why , or whithter , none can tell . 
Monks drew his breath yet more freely , and looked round with a smile of triumph . 
'By me , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'I told you I should interest you before long . 
I say by me I see that your cunning associate suppressed my name , although for ought he knew , it would be quite strange to your ears . 
When he was rescued by me , then , and lay recovering from sickness in my house , his strong resemblance to this picture I have spoken of , struck me with astonishment . 
I need not tell you he was snared away before I knew his history 'Why not ? asked Monks hastily . 
'Because you know it well . 
'I ! 'Denial to me is vain , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'I shall show you that I know more than that . 
'You you can't prove anything against me , stammered Monks . 
'I defy you to do it ! 'We shall see , returned the old gentleman with a searching glance . 
'I lost the boy , and no efforts of mine could recover him . 
You had left it , months before , and were supposed to be in London , but no one could tell where . 
Your agents had no clue to your residence . 
I wearied them with new applications . 
I paced the streets by night and day , but until two hours ago , all my efforts were fruitless , and I never saw you for an instant . 
'I DID NOT , replied Mr. Brownlow , rising too 'but within the last fortnight I have learnt it all . 
You have a brother you know it , and him . 
There was a will , which your mother destroyed , leaving the secret and the gain to you at her own death . 
You repaired to the place of his birth . 
There existed proofs proofs long suppressed of his birth and parentage . 
'Every word ! cried the gentleman , 'every word that has passed between you and this detested villain , is known to me . 
Murder has been done , to which you were morally if not really a party . 
'No , no , interposed Monks . 
'I I knew nothing of that I was going to inquire the truth of the story when you overtook me . 
I didn't know the cause . 
I thought it was a common quarrel . 
'It was the partial disclosure of your secrets , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'Will you disclose the whole ? 'Yes , I will . 
'Set your hand to a statement of truth and facts , and repeat it before witnesses ? 'That I promise too . 
'You must do more than that , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'Make restitution to an innocent and unoffending child , for such he is , although the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love . 
You have not forgotten the provisions of the will . 
Carry them into execution so far as your brother is concerned , and then go where you please . 
In this world you need meet no more . 
entered the room in violent agitation . 
'The man will be taken , he cried . 
'He will be taken to night ! 'The murderer ? asked Mr. Brownlow . 
'Yes , yes , replied the other . 
'His dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt , and there seems little doubt hat his master either is , or will be , there , under cover of the darkness . 
Spies are hovering about in every direction . 
I have spoken to the men who are charged with his capture , and they tell me he cannot escape . 
A reward of a hundred pounds is proclaimed by Government to night . 
'I will give fifty more , said Mr. Brownlow , 'and proclaim it with my own lips upon the spot , if I can reach it . 
'Fagin , said Mr. Brownlow 'what of him ? 'When I last heard , he had not been taken , but he will be , or is , by this time . 
'Have you made up your mind ? asked Mr. Brownlow , in a low voice , of Monks . 
'You you will be secret with me ? 'I will . 
Remain here till I return . 
It is your only hope of safety . 
They left the room , and the door was again locked . 
'What have you done ? asked the doctor in a whisper . 
'All that I could hope to do , and even more . 
Write and appoint the evening after to morrow , at seven , for the meeting . 
But my blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature . 
Which way have they taken ? 'Drive straight to the office and you will be in time , replied Mr. Losberne . 
The two gentlemen hastily separated each in a fever of excitement wholly uncontrollable . 
The cheapest and least delicate provisions are heaped in the shops the coarsest and commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the salesman's door , and stream from the house parapet and windows . 
It is a creek or inlet from the Thames , and can always be filled at high water by opening the sluices at the Lead Mills from which it took its old name . 
Thirty or forty years ago , before losses and chancery suits came upon it , it was a thriving place but now it is a desolate island indeed . 
The houses have no owners they are broken open , and entered upon by those who have the courage and there they live , and there they die . 
They must have powerful motives for a secret residence , or be reduced to a destitute condition indeed , who seek a refuge in Jacob's Island . 
This man was a returned transport , and his name was Kags . 
'Why didn't you , blunder head ! said Kags . 
'Well , I thought you'd have been a little more glad to see me than this , replied Mr. Chitling , with a melancholy air . 
'Wot's come of young Bates ? demanded Kags . 
'He hung about , not to come over here afore dark , but he'll be here soon , replied Chitling . 
'This is a smash , observed Toby , biting his lips . 
'There's more than one will go with this . 
He was down once , but they made a ring round him , and fought their way along . 
You should have seen how he looked about him , all muddy and bleeding , and clung to them as if they were his dearest friends . 
They ran to the window , downstairs , and into the street . 
The dog had jumped in at an open window he made no attempt to follow them , nor was his master to be seen . 
'What's the meaning of this ? said Toby when they had returned . 
'He can't be coming here . 
'If he was coming here , he'd have come with the dog , said Kags , stooping down to examine the animal , who lay panting on the floor . 
'Here ! Give us some water for him he has run himself faint . 
'He's drunk it all up , every drop , said Chitling after watching the dog some time in silence . 
'Covered with mud lame half blind he must have come a long way . 
'Where can he have come from ! exclaimed Toby . 
'He's been to the other kens of course , and finding them filled with strangers come on here , where he's been many a time and often . 
'He can't have made away with himself . 
What do you think ? said Chitling . 
'If he had , said Kags , 'the dog 'ud want to lead us away to where he did it . 
No. I think he's got out of the country , and left the dog behind . 
He must have given him the slip somehow , or he wouldn't be so easy . 
This solution , appearing the most probable one , was adopted as the right the dog , creeping under a chair , coiled himself up to sleep , without more notice from anybody . 
It being now dark , the shutter was closed , and a candle lighted and placed upon the table . 
The terrible events of the last two days had made a deep impression on all three , increased by the danger and uncertainty of their own position . 
They drew their chairs closer together , starting at every sound . 
They spoke little , and that in whispers , and were as silent and awe stricken as if the remains of the murdered woman lay in the next room . 
They had sat thus , some time , when suddenly was heard a hurried knocking at the door below . 
'Young Bates , said Kags , looking angrily round , to check the fear he felt himself . 
No , it wasn't he . 
He never knocked like that . 
Crackit went to the window , and shaking all over , drew in his head . 
There was no need to tell them who it was his pale face was enough . 
The dog too was on the alert in an instant , and ran whining to the door . 
'We must let him in , he said , taking up the candle . 
'Isn't there any help for it ? asked the other man in a hoarse voice . 
He drew them slowly off . 
Blanched face , sunken eyes , hollow cheeks , beard of three days' growth , wasted flesh , short thick breath it was the very ghost of Sikes . 
Not a word had been exchanged . 
He looked from one to another in silence . 
If an eye were furtively raised and met his , it was instantly averted . 
When his hollow voice broke silence , they all three started . 
They seemed never to have heard its tones before . 
'How came that dog here ? he asked . 
'To night's paper says that Fagin's took . 
Is it true , or a lie ? 'True . 
'Damn you all ! said Sikes , passing his hand across his forehead . 
'Have you nothing to say to me ? There was an uneasy movement among them , but nobody spoke . 
'Why isn't it ! he retorted with the same glance behind him . 
Sikes sat opposite the door , so that the moment the boy entered the room he encountered his figure . 
Accordingly he nodded , and made as though he would shake hands with him . 
'Let me go into some other room , said the boy , retreating still farther . 
'Charley ! said Sikes , stepping forward . 
'Don't you don't you know me ? 'Don't come nearer me , answered the boy , still retreating , and looking , with horror in his eyes , upon the murderer's face . 
'You monster ! The man stopped half way , and they looked at each other but Sikes's eyes sunk gradually to the ground . 
'Witness you three , cried the boy shaking his clenched fist , and becoming more and more excited as he spoke . 
'Witness you three I'm not afraid of him if they come here after him , I'll give him up I will . 
I tell you out at once . 
He may kill me for it if he likes , or if he dares , but if I am here I'll give him up . 
I'd give him up if he was to be boiled alive . 
Murder ! Help ! If there's the pluck of a man among you three , you'll help me . 
The three spectators seemed quite stupefied . 
The contest , however , was too unequal to last long . 
Sikes had him down , and his knee was on his throat , when Crackit pulled him back with a look of alarm , and pointed to the window . 
There were lights gleaming below , voices in loud and earnest conversation , the tramp of hurried footsteps endless they seemed in number crossing the nearest wooden bridge . 
One man on horseback seemed to be among the crowd for there was the noise of hoofs rattling on the uneven pavement . 
The gleam of lights increased the footsteps came more thickly and noisily on . 
Then , came a loud knocking at the door , and then a hoarse murmur from such a multitude of angry voices as would have made the boldest quail . 
'Help ! shrieked the boy in a voice that rent the air . 
'He's here ! Break down the door ! 'In the King's name , cried the voices without and the hoarse cry arose again , but louder . 
'Break down the door ! screamed the boy . 
'I tell you they'll never open it . 
Run straight to the room where the light is . 
Quick ! He flung him in , bolted it , and turned the key . 
'Is the downstairs door fast ? 'Double locked and chained , replied Crackit , who , with the other two men , still remained quite helpless and bewildered . 
'The panels are they strong ? 'Lined with sheet iron . 
'And the windows too ? 'Yes , and the windows . 
'Damn you ! cried the desperate ruffian , throwing up the sash and menacing the crowd . 
'Do your worst ! I'll cheat you yet ! Of all the terrific yells that ever fell on mortal ears , none could exceed the cry of the infuriated throng . 
Some shouted to those who were nearest to set the house on fire others roared to the officers to shoot him dead . 
'The tide , cried the murderer , as he staggered back into the room , and shut the faces out , 'the tide was in as I came up . 
Give me a rope , a long rope . 
I may drop into the Folly Ditch , and clear off that way . 
Give me a rope , or I shall do three more murders and kill myself . 
The panic stricken men pointed to where such articles were kept the murderer , hastily selecting the longest and strongest cord , hurried up to the house top . 
The water was out , and the ditch a bed of mud . 
Again and again it rose . 
bent beneath the weight of the crowd upon it . 
Still the current poured on to find some nook or hole from which to vent their shouts , and only for an instant see the wretch . 
'They have him now , cried a man on the nearest bridge . 
'Hurrah ! The crowd grew light with uncovered heads and again the shout uprose . 
'I will give fifty pounds , cried an old gentleman from the same quarter , 'to the man who takes him alive . 
I will remain here , till he come to ask me for it . 
At this moment the word was passed among the crowd that the door was forced at last , and that he who had first called for the ladder had mounted into the room . 
'The eyes again ! he cried in an unearthly screech . 
Staggering as if struck by lightning , he lost his balance and tumbled over the parapet . 
The noose was on his neck . 
It ran up with his weight , tight as a bow string , and swift as the arrow it speeds . 
He fell for five and thirty feet . 
There was a sudden jerk , a terrific convulsion of the limbs and there he hung , with the open knife clenched in his stiffening hand . 
The old chimney quivered with the shock , but stood it bravely . 
Missing his aim , he fell into the ditch , turning completely over as he went and striking his head against a stone , dashed out his brains . 
The same kind friend had , with Mr. Losberne's assistance , cautiously stopped all channels of communication through which they could receive intelligence of the dreadful occurrences that so recently taken place . 
So , they travelled on in silence each busied with reflections on the object which had brought them together and no one disposed to give utterance to the thoughts which crowded upon all . 
'You will be kind and good to him , for you are to every one , said Oliver . 
But it was pure , earnest , joyful reality . 
There was dinner prepared , and there were bedrooms ready , and everything was arranged as if by magic . 
Notwithstanding all this , when the hurry of the first half hour was over , the same silence and constraint prevailed that had marked their journey down . 
Mr. Brownlow did not join them at dinner , but remained in a separate room . 
The two other gentlemen hurried in and out with anxious faces , and , during the short intervals when they were present , conversed apart . 
Once , Mrs. Maylie was called away , and after being absent for nearly an hour , returned with eyes swollen with weeping . 
All these things made Rose and Oliver , who were not in any new secrets , nervous and uncomfortable . 
They sat wondering , in silence or , if they exchanged a few words , spoke in whispers , as if they were afraid to hear the sound of their own voices . 
Monks cast a look of hate , which , even then , he could not dissemble , at the astonished boy , and sat down near the door . 
Mr. Brownlow , who had papers in his hand , walked to a table near which Rose and Oliver were seated . 
'This is a painful task , said he , 'but these declarations , which have been signed in London before many gentlemen , must be substance repeated here . 
I would have spared you the degradation , but we must hear them from your own lips before we part , and you know why . 
'Go on , said the person addressed , turning away his face . 
I have almost done enough , I think . 
'Yes , said Monks , scowling at the trembling boy the beating of whose heart he might have heard . 
'That is the bastard child . 
'The term you use , said Mr. Brownlow , sternly , 'is a reproach to those long since passed beyong the feeble censure of the world . 
It reflects disgrace on no one living , except you who use it . 
He was born in this town . 
'In the workhouse of this town , was the sullen reply . 
'You have the story there . 
He pointed impatiently to the papers as he spoke . 
'I must have it here , too , said Mr. Brownlow , looking round upon the listeners . 
'Listen then ! You ! returned Monks . 
He knew nothing of us , for his senses were gone , and he slumbered on till next day , when he died . 
One of these papers was a letter to this girl Agnes the other a will . 
'What of the letter ? asked Mr. Brownlow . 
'The letter ? A sheet of paper crossed and crossed again , with a penitent confession , and prayers to God to help her . 
She was , at that time , within a few months of her confinement . 
'The will , said Mr. Brownlow , as Oliver's tears fell fast . 
'The will , said Mr. Brownlow , speaking for him , 'was in the same spirit as the letter . 
'My mother , said Monks , in a louder tone , 'did what a woman should have done . 
The letter never reached its destination but that , and other proofs , she kept , in case they ever tried to lie away the blot . 
The girl's father had the truth from her with every aggravation that her violent hate I love her for it now could add . 
There was a short silence here , until Mr. Brownlow took up the thread of the narrative . 
'Years after this , he said , 'this man's Edward Leeford's mother came to me . 
She was sinking under a painful and incurable disease , and wished to recover him before she died . 
Inquiries were set on foot , and strict searches made . 
They were unavailing for a long time , but ultimately successful and he went back with her to France . 
She would not believe that the girl had destroyed herself , and the child too , but was filled with the impression that a male child had been born , and was alive . 
He came in my way at last . 
'The locket and ring ? said Mr. Brownlow , turning to Monks . 
'I bought them from the man and woman I told you of , who stole them from the nurse , who stole them from the corpse , answered Monks without raising his eyes . 
'You know what became of them . 
Mr. Brownlow merely nodded to Mr. Grimwig , who disappearing with great alacrity , shortly returned , pushing in Mrs. Bumble , and dragging her unwilling consort after him . 
'Isn't natur , natur , Mrs. Bumble ? remonstrated the workhouse master . 
'Come , sir , said Mr. Grimwig , tartly 'suppress your feelings . 
'I will do my endeavours , sir , replied Mr. Bumble . 
'How do you do , sir ? I hope you are very well . 
This salutation was addressed to Mr. Brownlow , who had stepped up to within a short distance of the respectable couple . 
He inquired , as he pointed to Monks , 'Do you know that person ? 'No , replied Mrs. Bumble flatly . 
'Perhaps YOU don't ? said Mr. Brownlow , addressing her spouse . 
'I never saw him in all my life , said Mr. Bumble . 
'Nor sold him anything , perhaps ? 'No , replied Mrs. Bumble . 
'You never had , perhaps , a certain gold locket and ring ? said Mr. Brownlow . 
'Certainly not , replied the matron . 
'Why are we brought here to answer to such nonsense as this ? Again Mr. Brownlow nodded to Mr. Grimwig and again that gentleman limped away with extraordinary readiness . 
But not again did he return with a stout man and wife for this time , he led in two palsied women , who shook and tottered as they walked . 
'You shut the door the night old Sally died , said the foremost one , raising her shrivelled hand , 'but you couldn't shut out the sound , nor stop the chinks . 
'No , no , said the other , looking round her and wagging her toothless jaws . 
'No , no , no . 
'Yes , added the second , 'and it was a locket and gold ring . 
We found out that , and saw it given you . 
Oh ! we were by . 
'Would you like to see the pawnbroker himself ? asked Mr. Grimwig with a motion towards the door . 
I DID sell them , and they're where you'll never get them . 
What then ? 'Nothing , replied Mr. Brownlow , 'except that it remains for us to take care that neither of you is employed in a situation of trust again . 
You may leave the room . 
'You may make up your mind to that , and think yourself well off besides . 
'It was all Mrs. Bumble . 
She WOULD do it , urged Mr. Bumble first looking round to ascertain that his partner had left the room . 
'That is no excuse , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'If the law supposes that , said Mr. Bumble , squeezing his hat emphatically in both hands , 'the law is a ass a idiot . 
If that's the eye of the law , the law is a bachelor and the worst I wish the law is , that his eye may be opened by experience by experience . 
Laying great stress on the repetition of these two words , Mr. Bumble fixed his hat on very tight , and putting his hands in his pockets , followed his helpmate downstairs . 
'Young lady , said Mr. Brownlow , turning to Rose , 'give me your hand . 
You need not fear to hear the few remaining words we have to say . 
'If they have I do not know how they can , but if they have any reference to me , said Rose , 'pray let me hear them at some other time . 
I have not strength or spirits now . 
'Nay , returned the old gentlman , drawing her arm through his 'you have more fortitude than this , I am sure . 
Do you know this young lady , sir ? 'Yes , replied Monks . 
'I never saw you before , said Rose faintly . 
'I have seen you often , returned Monks . 
'The father of the unhappy Agnes had TWO daughters , said Mr. Brownlow . 
'Go on , said Mr. Brownlow , signing to Mrs. Maylie to approach . 
'Go on ! 'You couldn't find the spot to which these people had repaired , said Monks , 'but where friendship fails , hatred will often force a way . 
My mother found it , after a year of cunning search ay , and found the child . 
'She took it , did she ? 'No . 
There was some cursed spell , I think , against us for in spite of all our efforts she remained there and was happy . 
I lost sight of her , two or three years ago , and saw her no more until a few months back . 
'Do you see her now ? 'Yes . 
'But not the less my niece , cried Mrs. Maylie , folding the fainting girl in her arms 'not the less my dearest child . 
I would not lose her now , for all the treasures of the world . 
My sweet companion , my own dear girl ! 'The only friend I ever had , cried Rose , clinging to her . 
'The kindest , best of friends . 
I cannot bear all this . 
A father , sister , and mother , were gained , and lost , in that one moment . 
They were a long , long time alone . 
A soft tap at the door , at length announced that some one was without . 
Oliver opened it , glided away , and gave place to Harry Maylie . 
'I know it all , he said , taking a seat beside the lovely girl . 
'Dear Rose , I know it all . 
'I am not here by accident , he added after a lengthened silence 'nor have I heard all this to night , for I knew it yesterday only yesterday . 
Do you guess that I have come to remind you of a promise ? 'Stay , said Rose . 
You gave me leave , at any time within a year , to renew the subject of our last discourse . 
'Not to press you to alter your determination , pursued the young man , 'but to hear you repeat it , if you would . 
'The same reasons which influenced me then , will influence me know , said Rose firmly . 
'The disclosure of to night , Harry began . 
'The disclosure of to night , replied Rose softly , 'leaves me in the same position , with reference to you , as that in which I stood before . 
'You harden your heart against me , Rose , urged her lover . 
'Oh Harry , Harry , said the young lady , bursting into tears 'I wish I could , and spare myself this pain . 
'Then why inflict it on yourself ? said Harry , taking her hand . 
'Think , dear Rose , think what you have heard to night . 
'And what have I heard ! What have I heard ! cried Rose . 
'That a sense of his deep disgrace so worked upon my own father that he shunned all there , we have said enough , Harry , we have said enough . 
'Not yet , not yet , said the young man , detaining her as she rose . 
'My hopes , my wishes , prospects , feeling every thought in life except my love for you have undergone a change . 
'What do you mean ! she faltered . 
Those who have shrunk from me because of this , have shrunk from you , and proved you so far right . 
Truth to tell , the supper had been waiting a most unreasonable time . 
, could offer a word in extenuation . 
'I had serious thoughts of eating my head to night , said Mr. Grimwig , 'for I began to think I should get nothing else . 
I'll take the liberty , if you'll allow me , of saluting the bride that is to be . 
'Oliver , my child , said Mrs. Maylie , 'where have you been , and why do you look so sad ? There are tears stealing down your face at this moment . 
What is the matter ? It is a world of disappointment often to the hopes we most cherish , and hopes that do our nature the greatest honour . 
Poor Dick was dead ! CHAPTER LII FAGIN'S LAST NIGHT ALIVE The court was paved , from floor to roof , with human faces . 
Inquisitive and eager eyes peered from every inch of space . 
From the rail before the dock , away into the sharpest angle of the smallest corner in the galleries , all looks were fixed upon one man Fagin . 
Before him and behind above , below , on the right and on the left he seemed to stand surrounded by a firmament , all bright with gleaming eyes . 
Beyond these manifestations of anxiety , he stirred not hand or foot . 
A slight bustle in the court , recalled him to himself . 
Looking round , he saw that the juryman had turned together , to consider their verdict . 
A few there were , who seemed unmindful of him , and looked only to the jury , in impatient wonder how they could delay . 
As he saw all this in one bewildered glance , the deathlike stillness came again , and looking back he saw that the jurymen had turned towards the judge . 
Hush ! They only sought permission to retire . 
He looked , wistfully , into their faces , one by one when they passed out , as though to see which way the greater number leant but that was fruitless . 
The jailed touched him on the shoulder . 
He followed mechanically to the end of the dock , and sat down on a chair . 
The man pointed it out , or he would not have seen it . 
He looked up into the gallery again . 
Some of the people were eating , and some fanning themselves with handkerchiefs for the crowded place was very hot . 
There was one young man sketching his face in a little note book . 
He wondered whether it was like , and looked on when the artist broke his pencil point , and made another with his knife , as any idle spectator might have done . 
There was an old fat gentleman on the bench , too , who had gone out , some half an hour before , and now come back . 
Then , he thought of all the horrors of the gallows and the scaffold and stopped to watch a man sprinkling the floor to cool it and then went on to think again . 
At length there was a cry of silence , and a breathless look from all towards the door . 
The jury returned , and passed him close . 
He could glean nothing from their faces they might as well have been of stone . 
Perfect stillness ensued not a rustle not a breath Guilty . 
The building rang with a tremendous shout , and another , and another , and then it echoed loud groans , that gathered strength as they swelled out , like angry thunder . 
It was a peal of joy from the populace outside , greeting the news that he would die on Monday . 
The noise subsided , and he was asked if he had anything to say why sentence of death should not be passed upon him . 
The judge assumed the black cap , and the prisoner still stood with the same air and gesture . 
A woman in the gallery , uttered some exclamation , called forth by this dread solemnity he looked hastily up as if angry at the interruption , and bent forward yet more attentively . 
The address was solemn and impressive the sentence fearful to hear . 
But he stood , like a marble figure , without the motion of a nerve . 
He gazed stupidly about him for an instant , and obeyed . 
He sat down on a stone bench opposite the door , which served for seat and bedstead and casting his blood shot eyes upon the ground , tried to collect his thoughts . 
These gradually fell into their proper places , and by degrees suggested more so that in a little time he had the whole , almost as it was delivered . 
To be hanged by the neck , till he was dead that was the end . 
To be hanged by the neck till he was dead . 
As it came on very dark , he began to think of all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold some of them through his means . 
They rose up , in such quick succession , that he could hardly count them . 
He had seen some of them die , and had joked too , because they died with prayers upon their lips . 
It was very dark why didn't they bring a light ? The cell had been built for many years . 
Scores of men must have passed their last hours there . 
It was like sitting in a vault strewn with dead bodies the cap , the noose , the pinioned arms , the faces that he knew , even beneath that hideous veil . 
Then came the night dark , dismal , silent night . 
Other watchers are glad to hear this church clock strike , for they tell of life and coming day . 
To him they brought despair . 
The boom of every iron bell came laden with the one , deep , hollow sound Death . 
What availed the noise and bustle of cheerful morning , which penetrated even there , to him ? It was another form of knell , with mockery added to the warning . 
At one time he raved and blasphemed and at another howled and tore his hair . 
Venerable men of his own persuasion had come to pray beside him , but he had driven them away with curses . 
They renewed their charitable efforts , and he beat them off . 
He had only one night more to live . 
And as he thought of this , the day broke Sunday . 
He had sat there , awake , but dreaming . 
He cowered down upon his stone bed , and thought of the past . 
He had been wounded with some missiles from the crowd on the day of his capture , and his head was bandaged with a linen cloth . 
By degrees they fell off , one by one and , for an hour , in the dead of night , the street was left to solitude and darkness . 
They were immediately admitted into the lodge . 
'Is the young gentleman to come too , sir ? said the man whose duty it was to conduct them . 
'It's not a sight for children , sir . 
These few words had been said apart , so as to be inaudible to Oliver . 
'This , said the man , stopping in a gloomy passage where a couple of workmen were making some preparations in profound silence 'this is the place he passes through . 
If you step this way , you can see the door he goes out at . 
He led them into a stone kitchen , fitted with coppers for dressing the prison food , and pointed to a door . 
There was an open grating above it , throught which came the sound of men's voices , mingled with the noise of hammering , and the throwing down of boards . 
There were putting up the scaffold . 
Motioning them to remain where they were , the turnkey knocked at one of these with his bunch of keys . 
The condemned criminal was seated on his bed , rocking himself from side to side , with a countenance more like that of a snared beast than the face of a man . 
His mind was evidently wandering to his old life , for he continued to mutter , without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of his vision . 
'Good boy , Charley well done he mumbled . 
'Take him away to bed ! cried Fagin . 
'Do you hear me , some of you ? He has been the the somehow the cause of all this . 
It's worth the money to bring him up to it Bolter's throat , Bill never mind the girl Bolter's throat as deep as you can cut . 
Saw his head off ! 'Fagin , said the jailer . 
'That's me ! cried the Jew , falling instantly , into the attitude of listening he had assumed upon his trial . 
'An old man , my Lord a very old , old man ! 'Here , said the turnkey , laying his hand upon his breast to keep him down . 
'Here's somebody wants to see you , to ask you some questions , I suppose . 
Fagin , Fagin ! Are you a man ? 'I shan't be one long , he replied , looking up with a face retaining no human expression but rage and terror . 
'Strike them all dead ! What right have they to butcher me ? As he spoke he caught sight of Oliver and Mr. Brownlow . 
Shrinking to the furthest corner of the seat , he demanded to know what they wanted there . 
'Steady , said the turnkey , still holding him down . 
'Now , sir , tell him what you want . 
Quick , if you please , for he grows worse as the time gets on . 
'You have some papers , said Mr. Brownlow advancing , 'which were placed in your hands , for better security , by a man called Monks . 
'It's all a lie together , replied Fagin . 
'I haven't one not one . 
'For the love of God , said Mr. Brownlow solemnly , 'do not say that now , upon the very verge of death but tell me where they are . 
You know that Sikes is dead that Monks has confessed that there is no hope of any further gain . 
Where are those papers ? 'Oliver , cried Fagin , beckoning to him . 
'Here , here ! Let me whisper to you . 
'I am not afraid , said Oliver in a low voice , as he relinquished Mr. Brownlow's hand . 
'The papers , said Fagin , drawing Oliver towards him , 'are in a canvas bag , in a hole a little way up the chimney in the top front room . 
I want to talk to you , my dear . 
I want to talk to you . 
'Yes , yes , returned Oliver . 
'Let me say a prayer . 
Do ! Let me say one prayer . 
Say only one , upon your knees , with me , and we will talk till morning . 
'Outside , outside , replied Fagin , pushing the boy before him towards the door , and looking vacantly over his head . 
'Say I've gone to sleep they'll believe you . 
You can get me out , if you take me so . 
Now then , now then ! 'Oh ! God forgive this wretched man ! cried the boy with a burst of tears . 
'That's right , that's right , said Fagin . 
If I shake and tremble , as we pass the gallows , don't you mind , but hurry on . 
Now , now , now ! 'Have you nothing else to ask him , sir ? inquired the turnkey . 
'No other question , replied Mr. Brownlow . 
'If I hoped we could recall him to a sense of his position 'Nothing will do that , sir , replied the man , shaking his head . 
'You had better leave him . 
The door of the cell opened , and the attendants returned . 
'Press on , press on , cried Fagin . 
'Softly , but not so slow . 
Faster , faster ! The men laid hands upon him , and disengaging Oliver from his grasp , held him back . 
It was some time before they left the prison . 
Oliver nearly swooned after this frightful scene , and was so weak that for an hour or more , he had not the strength to walk . 
Day was dawning when they again emerged . 
A great multitude had already assembled the windows were filled with people , smoking and playing cards to beguile the time the crowd were pushing , quarrelling , joking . 
CHAPTER LIII AND LAST The fortunes of those who have figured in this tale are nearly closed . 
The little that remains to their historian to relate , is told in few and simple words . 
were equally divided between himself and Oliver , it would yield , to each , little more than three thousand pounds . 
As far from home , died the chief remaining members of his friend Fagin's gang . 
Mr. Brownlow adopted Oliver as his son . 
Here he took to gardening , planting , fishing , carpentering , and various other pursuits of a similar kind all undertaken with his characteristic impetuosity . 
In each and all he has since become famous throughout the neighborhood , as a most profound authority . 
Before his removal , he had managed to contract a strong friendship for Mr. Grimwig , which that eccentric gentleman cordially reciprocated . 
He is accordingly visited by Mr. Grimwig a great many times in the course of the year . 
After some consideration , he went into business as an Informer , in which calling he realises a genteel subsistence . 
His plan is , to walk out once a week during church time attended by Charlotte in respectable attire . 
Sometimes Mr. Claypole faints himself , but the result is the same . 
Mr. Bumble has been heard to say , that in this reverse and degradation , he has not even spirits to be thankful for being separated from his wife . 
As to Mr. Giles and Brittles , they still remain in their old posts , although the former is bald , and the last named boy quite grey . 
Master Charles Bates , appalled by Sikes's crime , fell into a train of reflection whether an honest life was not , after all , the best . 
Arriving at the conclusion that it certainly was , he turned his back upon the scenes of the past , resolved to amend it in some new sphere of action . 
I would fain linger yet with a few of those among whom I have so long moved , and share their happiness by endeavouring to depict it . 
These , and a thousand looks and smiles , and turns fo thought and speech I would fain recall them every one . 
Within the altar of the old village church there stands a white marble tablet , which bears as yet but one word 'AGNES . 
I believe it none the less because that nook is in a Church , and she was weak and erring . 
