About them upon the ground , among the trees and in the air over them moved and swung and soared the countless forms of Caspak's teeming life . 
South Clark Street and heaven have something in common , then , suggested Sinclair . 
James and Tippet laughed , and then a hideous growl broke from a dense thicket ahead and diverted their attention to other matters . 
One of them behemoths of 'Oly Writ , muttered Tippet as they came to a halt and with guns ready awaited the almost inevitable charge . 
Hungry lot o' beggars , these , said Bradley always trying to eat everything they see . 
For a moment no further sound came from the thicket . 
He may be feeding now , suggested Bradley . 
We'll try to go around him . 
And he set off at right angles to their former course , hoping to avert a charge . 
Pick your trees , whispered Bradley . 
The men looked about them . 
The bear took a couple of steps forward , still growling menacingly . 
He was exposed to the shoulders now . 
Tippet took one look at the monster and bolted for the nearest tree and then the bear charged . 
He charged straight for Tippet . 
The other men scattered for the various trees they had selected all except Bradley . 
He stood watching Tippet and the bear . 
Instantly Bradley's piece was at his shoulder , there was a sharp report answered by a roar of mingled rage and pain from the carnivore . 
Tippet attempted to scramble to his feet . 
Lie still ! shouted Bradley . 
The bear halted in its tracks , wheeled toward Bradley and then back again toward Tippet . 
Again the former's rifle spit angrily , and the bear turned again in his direction . 
Come on , you behemoth of Holy Writ ! he cried . 
Come on , you duffer ! Can't waste ammunition . 
And the bear did charge . 
Like a bolt of lightning he flashed down upon the Englishman . 
Now run ! Bradley called to Tippet and himself turned in flight toward a nearby tree . 
The other men , now safely ensconced upon various branches , watched the race with breathless interest . 
Would Bradley make it ? It seemed scarce possible . 
And if he didn't ! James gasped at the thought . 
It all happened in a few seconds but they were seconds that seemed like hours to the men who watched . 
They saw Tippet leap to his feet at Bradley's shouted warning . 
They saw him run , stooping to recover his rifle as he passed the spot where it had fallen . 
They saw him glance back toward Bradley , and then they saw him stop short of the tree that might have given him safety and turn back in the direction of the bear . 
The men in the trees scarcely breathed . 
Overcautious , some thought him . 
Tippet never stopped running or firing until he stood within a foot of the brute , which lay almost touching Bradley and was already struggling to regain its feet . 
Placing the muzzle of his gun against the bear's ear , Tippet pulled the trigger . 
The creature sank limply to the ground and Bradley scrambled to his feet . 
Good work , Tippet , he said . 
Mightily obliged to you awful waste of ammunition , really . 
And then they resumed the march and in fifteen minutes the encounter had ceased even to be a topic of conversation . 
For two days they continued upon their perilous way . 
Already the cliffs loomed high and forbidding close ahead without sign of break to encourage hope that somewhere they might be scaled . 
There had been the pure apes huge , gorillalike beasts and those who walked , a trifle more erect and had features with just a shade more of the human cast about them . 
Then there were men like Ahm , whom they had captured and confined at the fort Ahm , the club man . 
Well known club man , Tyler had called him . 
Ahm and his people had knowledge of a speech . 
All of these peoples had proven belligerent in the extreme . 
In common with the rest of the fauna of Caprona the first law of nature as they seemed to understand it was to kill kill kill . 
Almost simultaneously there appeared south of them a party of naked men armed with clubs and hatchets . 
Both parties halted as they caught sight of one another . 
The men from the fort saw before them a hunting party evidently returning to its caves or village laden with meat . 
They were large men with features closely resembling those of the African Negro though their skins were white . 
Short hair grew upon a large portion of their limbs and bodies , which still retained a considerable trace of apish progenitors . 
They were , however , a distinctly higher type than the Bo lu , or club men . 
On the chance that he might avoid a clash , Bradley stepped forward with upraised hand . 
We are friends , he called in the tongue of Ahm , the Bolu , who had been held a prisoner at the fort permit us to pass in peace . 
We will not harm you . 
At this the hatchet men set up a great jabbering with much laughter , loud and boisterous . 
No , shouted one , you will not harm us , for we shall kill you . 
Come ! We kill ! We kill ! And with hideous shouts they charged down upon the Europeans . 
Sinclair , you may fire , said Bradley quietly . 
The Englishman raised his piece to his shoulder and took quick aim at the breast of the yelling savage leaping toward them . 
Directly behind the leader came another hatchet man , and with the report of Sinclair's rifle both warriors lunged forward in the tall grass , pierced by the same bullet . 
The effect upon the rest of the band was electrical . 
All unconscious of the stalker , the men came , late in the afternoon , to a spot which seemed favorable as a campsite . 
A cold spring bubbled from the base of a rocky formation which overhung and partially encircled a small inclosure . 
At Bradley's command , the men took up the duties assigned them gathering wood , building a cook fire and preparing the evening meal . 
It was while they were thus engaged that Brady's attention was attracted by the dismal flapping of huge wings . 
He glanced up , expecting to see one of the great flying reptiles of a bygone age , his rifle ready in his hand . 
Brady was a brave man . 
Gawd ! he almost screamed . 
Then Brady spoke again in an almost inaudible voice . 
With the passing of the thing , came the reaction . 
Tippet sank to the ground and buried his face in his hands . 
Oh , Gord , he moaned . 
Tyke me awy from this orful plice . 
Brady , recovered from the first shock , swore loud and luridly . 
Yes , said Sinclair with fine sarcasm , we've saw so many of them with white shrouds on 'em . 
Shut up , you fool ! growled Brady . 
If you know so much , tell us what it was after bein' then . 
Then he turned toward Bradley . 
What was it , sor , do you think ? he asked . 
I don't know , he said . 
It looked like a winged human being clothed in a flowing white robe . 
Its face was more human than otherwise . 
His face was still ashy . 
Yer cawn't tell me , he cried . 
Blime , Hi seen hit . 
Hit was ha dead man flyin' through the hair . 
Didn't Hi see 'is heyes ? Oh , Gord ! Didn't Hi see 'em ? It didn't look like any beast or reptile to me , spoke up Sinclair . 
It was lookin' right down at me when I looked up and I saw its face plain as I see yours . 
Yes ! James had not spoken since the apparition had passed over them , and now it was scarce speech which he uttered rather a series of articulate gasps . 
Yes dead a long while . 
It come for some one . 
One of us is goin' to die . 
I'm goin' to die ! he ended in a wail . 
Come ! Come ! snapped Bradley . 
Get to work , all of you . 
Not until they had eaten and to each had been issued the little ration of smoking tobacco allowed after each evening meal did any sign of a relaxation of taut nerves appear . 
It was Brady who showed the first signs of returning good spirits . 
But to such sights and sounds as these the five men had become callous . 
They sang or talked as unconcernedly as they might have done in the bar room of some publichouse at home . 
The others were listening to Brady's description of traffic congestion at the Rush Street bridge during the rush hour at night . 
The owners of the yellow green eyes raised their frightful chorus to the heavens . 
Conditions seemed again to have returned to normal . 
And then , as though the hand of Death had reached out and touched them all , the five men tensed into sudden rigidity . 
Sinclair raised his rifle and fired . 
An eerie wail floated down from above and the apparition , whatever it might have been , was swallowed by the darkness . 
For several seconds the listening men heard the sound of those dismally flapping wings lessening in the distance until they could no longer be heard . 
Bradley was the first to speak . 
Shouldn't have fired , Sinclair , he said can't waste ammunition . 
But there was no note of censure in his tone . 
It was as though he understood the nervous reaction that had compelled the other's act . 
I couldn't help it , sir , said Sinclair . 
Lord , it would take an iron man to keep from shootin' at that awful thing . 
Do you believe in ghosts , sir ? No , replied Bradley . 
I don't know about that , said Brady . 
There was a woman murdered over on the prairie near Brighton her throat was cut from ear to ear , and Shut up , snapped Bradley . 
My grandaddy used to live down Coppington wy , said Tippet . 
You fools will have yourselves scared to death in a minute . 
Disheartened , Bradley determined to turn back toward the fort , as he already had exceeded the time decided upon by Bowen Tyler and himself for the expedition . 
The cliffs for many miles had been trending in a northeasterly direction , indicating to Bradley that they were approaching the northern extremity of the island . 
After supper the men lay smoking and chatting among themselves . 
The diminution in reptilian life was the most noticeable change in the fauna of northern Caspak . 
Here , however , were forms they had not met elsewhere , several of which were of gigantic proportions . 
As he ran toward the man , Bradley heard above him the same uncanny wail that had set every nerve on edge several nights before , and the dismal flapping of huge wings . 
He did not need to look up at the white shrouded figure winging slowly away into the night to know that their grim visitor had returned . 
What for ? he muttered . 
Then he walked quickly to where Tippet lay sprawled upon his face . 
By this time James , Brady and Sinclair were at his heels , each with his rifle in readiness . 
Is he dead , sir ? whispered James as Bradley kneeled beside the prostrate form . 
Bradley turned Tippet over on his back and pressed an ear close to the other's heart . 
In a moment he raised his head . 
Hurry ! Then he loosened Tippet's shirt at the throat and when the water was brought , threw a cupful in the man's face . 
Slowly Tippet regained consciousness and sat up . 
At first he looked curiously into the faces of the men about him then an expression of terror overspread his features . 
He shot a startled glance up into the black void above and then burying his face in his arms began to sob like a child . 
What's wrong , man ? demanded Bradley . 
Buck up ! Can't play cry baby . 
What happened ? Wot 'appened , sir ! wailed Tippet . 
Oh , Gord , sir ! Hit came back . 
Hit came for me , sir . 
Right hit did , sir strite hat me , sir hand with long w'ite 'ands it clawed for me . 
Oh , Gord ! Hit almost caught me , sir . 
Hi'm has good as dead Hi'm a marked man that's wot Hi ham . 
Hit was a goin' for to carry me horf , sir . 
Stuff and nonsense , snapped Bradley . 
Did you get a good look at it ? Tippet said that he did a much better look than he wanted . 
The thing had almost clutched him , and he had looked straight into its eyes dead heyes in a dead face , he had described them . 
Wot was it after bein' , do you think ? inquired Brady . 
Hit was Death , moaned Tippet , shuddering , and again a pall of gloom fell upon the little party . 
The following day Tippet walked as one in a trance . 
He never spoke except in reply to a direct question , which more often than not had to be repeated before it could attract his attention . 
I'll see to that , he said , and they all knew that Tippet meant to take his own life before darkness set in . 
The entire party was moody and glum . 
There was none of the bantering that had marked their intercourse before , even in the face of blighting hardships and hideous danger . 
This was a new menace that threatened them , something that they couldn't explain and so , naturally , it aroused within them superstitious fear which Tippet's attitude only tended to augment . 
To add further to their gloom , their way led through a dense forest , where , on account of the underbrush , it was difficult to make even a mile an hour . 
Bradley was in the lead when he came suddenly upon a grotesque creature of Titanic proportions . 
Crouching among the trees , which here commenced to thin out slightly , Bradley saw what appeared to be an enormous dragon devouring the carcass of a mammoth . 
From frightful jaws to the tip of its long tail it was fully forty feet in length . 
Its body was covered with plates of thick skin which bore a striking resemblance to armor plate . 
The creature saw Bradley almost at the same instant that he saw it and reared up on its enormous hind legs until its head towered a full twenty five feet above the ground . 
Scatter ! shouted Bradley to those behind him and all but Tippet heeded the warning . 
The shot struck the creature in the belly where there was no protecting armor , eliciting a new note which rose in a shrill whistle and ended in a wail . 
It was then that Tippet appeared to come out of his trance , for with a cry of terror he turned and fled to the left . 
Bradley , the moment he had discovered the thing was pursuing Tippet , had followed it . 
Bradley half raised his rifle to fire again and then lowered it with a shake of his head . 
At what he considered a safe distance he halted and looked back . 
Half hidden by the intervening trees he still could see the huge head and the massive jaws from which protrude the limp legs of the dead man . 
Then , as though struck by the hammer of Thor , the creature collapsed and crumpled to the ground . 
Bradley's single bullet , penetrating the body through the soft skin of the belly , had slain the Titan . 
A few minutes later , Bradley found the others of the party . 
The four returned cautiously to the spot where the creature lay and after convincing themselves that it was quite dead , came close to it . 
It was an arduous and gruesome job extricating Tippet's mangled remains from the powerful jaws , the men working for the most part silently . 
It was the work of the banshee all right , muttered Brady . 
It warned poor Tippet , it did . 
Hit killed him , that's wot hit did , hand hit'll kill some more of us , said James , his lower lip trembling . 
If it was a ghost , interjected Sinclair , and I don't say as it was but if it was , why , it could take on any form it wanted to . 
It might have turned itself into this thing , which ain't no natural thing at all , just to get poor Tippet . 
If it had of been a lion or something else humanlike it wouldn't look so strange but this here thing ain't humanlike . 
There ain't no such thing an' never was . 
Bullets don't kill ghosts , said Bradley , so this couldn't have been a ghost . 
Furthermore , there are no such things . 
I've been trying to place this creature . 
Saw picture of skeleton in magazine . 
There's one in New York Natural History Museum . 
Seems to me it said it was found in place called Hell Creek somewhere in western North America . 
Supposed to have lived about six million years ago . 
Hell Creek's in Montana , said Sinclair . 
I used to punch cows in Wyoming , an' I've heard of Hell Creek . 
Do you s'pose that there thing's six million years old ? His tone was skeptical . 
No , replied Bradley But it would indicate that the island of Caprona has stood almost without change for more than six million years . 
It was a constant battle while they dug a grave and consigned all that was mortal of John Tippet to his last , lonely resting place . 
Upon the headstone Sinclair scratched in rude characters the words HERE LIES JOHN TIPPET ENGLISHMAN KILLED BY TYRANNOSAURUS SEPT . 
A. D. R. I. P. and Bradley repeated a short prayer before they left their comrade forever . 
There were other horses too but all were small , the largest being not above eight hands in height . 
As on the night of September ninth the first warning came from the sentinel standing guard over his sleeping companions . 
Then they turned toward James , who lay face downward upon the ground , trembling as with ague . 
In the melee his rifle had been discharged and he had broken away at the same instant and turned to defend himself with the butt . 
The rest they had seen . 
From that instant James was an absolutely broken man . 
He had seen Tippet marked and claimed and now he had been marked . 
Nor were his constant reiterations of this belief without effect upon the rest of the party . 
Even Bradley felt depressed , though for the sake of the others he managed to hide it beneath a show of confidence he was far from feeling . 
And on the following day William James was killed by a saber tooth tiger September , . 
Southward from his grave marched three grim and silent men . 
With comparative safety fifteen miles away , they made camp at last but there was no singing now and no joking . 
Who would be the next ? As was their custom , they took turns at guard , each man doing two hours and then arousing the next . 
Brady had gone on from eight to ten , followed by Sinclair from ten to twelve , then Bradley had been awakened . 
Brady would stand the last guard from two to four , as they had determined to start the moment that it became light enough to insure comparative safety upon the trail . 
As the man sprang to his feet , his rifle ready in his hand , Sinclair awoke and took in the scene in a single swift glance . 
The fire was out and Bradley was nowhere in sight . 
For a long moment the lion and the men eyed one another . 
As the brute's head had been raised , his spine had not been visible and so they did what they had learned by long experience was best to do . 
Each covered a front leg , and as the tail snapped aloft , fired . 
With a hideous roar the mighty flesh eater lurched forward to the ground with both front legs broken . 
It was an easy accomplishment in the instant before the beast charged after , it would have been well nigh an impossible feat . 
Brady stepped close in and finished him with a shot in the base of the brain lest his terrific roarings should attract his mate or others of their kind . 
Then the two men turned and looked at one another . 
Where is Lieutenant Bradley ? asked Sinclair . 
They walked to the fire . 
Only a few smoking embers remained . 
A few feet away lay Bradley's rifle . 
There was no evidence of a struggle . 
The two men circled about the camp twice and on the last lap Brady stooped and picked up an object which had lain about ten yards beyond the fire it was Bradley's cap . 
Again the two looked questioningly at one another , and then , simultaneously , both pairs of eyes swung upward and searched the sky . 
A moment later Brady was examining the ground about the spot where Bradley's cap had lain . 
It was one of those little barren , sandy stretches that they had found only upon this stony plateau . 
Breakfastless and with shaken nerves the two survivors plunged madly into the long day's march . 
Vivid in the mind of each was a picture of Bradley's end , for though neither had witnessed the tragedy , both could imagine almost precisely what had occurred . 
And so they plunged forward at reckless speed , their clothes , their hands , their faces torn by the retarding underbrush that reached forth to hinder them . 
Shortly after noon they reached the end of the plateau . 
Before them was a drop of two hundred feet to the valley beneath . 
The landscape was familiar each recognized it immediately and knew that that smoky column marked the spot where Dinosaur had stood . 
The closer they approached the fort the greater became their apprehension that all would not be well . 
They pictured the barracks deserted or the small company massacred and the buildings in ashes . 
They are still there ! And he fell to his knees , sobbing . 
Within hailing distance they set up such a loud shouting that presently heads appeared above the top of the parapet and soon answering shouts were rising from within Fort Dinosaur . 
They heard of the deaths of Tippet and James and of the disappearance of Lieutenant Bradley , and a new terror settled upon Dinosaur . 
Benson , Tippet , James , and one of the Germans were known to be dead . 
The sound seemed to come from the south , and presently , low above the trees in that direction , the man made out a dim , shadowy form circling slowly about . 
With its huge wings partly closed for the dive and its white robe fluttering in its wake , the apparition swooped down upon the Englishman . 
So great was the force of the impact when the thing struck Bradley between the shoulders that the man was half stunned . 
The creature wheeled immediately toward the east and was at once joined by its fellow , who circled them once and then fell in behind them . 
He listened for the puff of a motor or some other telltale sound that would prove the correctness of his theory . 
However , he was rewarded with nothing more than the constant flap flap . 
Presently , far below and ahead , he saw the waters of the inland sea , and a moment later he was borne over them . 
Thus Bradley reasoned thus most of us reason not by what might be possible but by what has fallen within the range of our experience . 
What he heard them say was to the effect that having covered half the distance the burden would now be transferred from one to the other . 
Bradley wondered how the exchange was to be accomplished . 
As a hawk dives for a songbird on the wing , so this great , human bird dived for Bradley . 
It was a harrowing experience , but soon over , and once again the captive was being carried swiftly toward the east and what fate he could not even guess . 
Three quarters of an hour from the time of his seizure his captors dropped gently to earth in the strangest city that human eye had ever rested upon . 
The principal doorways appeared to be in the roofs , and it was through one of these that Bradley was inducted into the dark interior of a low ceiled room . 
Here he was pushed roughly into a corner where he tripped over a thick mat , and there his captors left him . 
He heard them moving about in the darkness for a moment , and several times he saw their large luminous eyes glowing in the dark . 
Finally , these disappeared and silence reigned , broken only by the breathing of the creature which indicated to the Englishman that they were sleeping somewhere in the same apartment . 
It was now evident that the mat upon the floor was intended for sleeping purposes and that the rough shove that had sent him to it had been a rude invitation to repose . 
Two windows let in more daylight , while two doors evidently gave ingress to other rooms . 
The walls were partially ceiled with thin strips of wood , nicely fitted and finished , partially plastered and the rest covered with a fine , woven cloth . 
Figures of reptiles and beasts were painted without regard to any uniform scheme here and there upon the walls . 
Yet it was none of these things that filled him with greatest wonder no , it was the figures of the two creatures that had captured him and brought him hither . 
He saw , too , that except for their wings the pair bore a strong resemblance to human beings , though fashioned in a most grotesque mold . 
For a moment he stretched his great wings slowly , solemnly blinking his large round eyes . 
Then his gaze fell upon Bradley . 
The thin lips drew back tightly against yellow teeth in a grimace that was nothing but hideous . 
It could not have been termed a smile , and what emotion it registered the Englishman was at a loss to guess . 
No expression whatever altered the steady gaze of those large , round eyes there was no color upon the pasty , sunken cheeks . 
A death's head grimaced as though a man long dead raised his parchment covered skull from an old grave . 
The creature stood about the height of an average man but appeared much taller from the fact that the joints of his long wings rose fully a foot above his hairless head . 
The bare arms were long and sinewy , ending in strong , bony hands with clawlike fingers almost talonlike in their suggestiveness . 
The white robe was separated in front , revealing skinny legs and the further fact that the thing wore but the single garment , which was of fine , woven cloth . 
The ears were small and rested flat against the skull , which was noticeably round , though the face was quite flat . 
The creature had small feet , beautifully arched and plump , but so out of keeping with every other physical attribute it possessed as to appear ridiculous . 
After eyeing Bradley for a moment the thing approached him . 
Where from ? it asked . 
England , replied Bradley , as briefly . 
Where is England and what ? pursued the questioner . 
It is a country far from here , answered the Englishman . 
Are your people cor sva jo or cos ata lu ? I do not understand you , said Bradley and now suppose you answer a few questions . 
Who are you ? What country is this ? Why did you bring me here ? Again the sepulchral grimace . 
We are Wieroos Luata is our father . 
This , our country , is called Oo oh . 
Him Who Speaks for Luata to gaze upon and question . 
He would know from whence you came and why but principally if you be cos ata lu . 
His gesture was eloquent but he embellished it by remarking , And possibly if you are . 
I'm hungry , snapped Bradley . 
By daylight the city appeared even more remarkable than in the moonlight , though less weird and unreal . 
The houses of all shapes and sizes were piled about as a child might pile blocks of various forms and colors . 
Upon each house was a slender column supporting a human skull . 
The skulls were , as a rule , painted blue or white , or in combinations of both colors . 
The most effective were painted blue with the teeth white and the eye sockets rimmed with white . 
There were other skulls thousands of them tens , hundreds of thousands . 
And the city extended in every direction as far as the Englishman could see . 
All about him Wieroos were moving across the roofs or winging through the air . 
The sad sound of their flapping wings rose and fell like a solemn dirge . 
Most of them were appareled all in white , like his captors but others had markings of red or blue or yellow slashed across the front of their robes . 
His guide pointed toward a doorway in an alley below them . 
Go there and eat , he commanded , and then come back . 
If any question you , say that you belong to Fosh bal soj . 
And this time he pointed to the top of a ladder which protruded above the eaves of the roof near by . 
Then he turned and reentered the house . 
No , he could not escape that seemed evident . 
The city appeared interminable , and beyond the city , if not a savage wilderness filled with wild beasts , there was the broad inland sea infested with horrid monsters . 
Slowly he descended the ladder to the seemingly deserted alley which was paved with what appeared to be large , round cobblestones . 
He looked again at the smooth , worn pavement , and a rueful grin crossed his features the alley was paved with skulls . 
The City of Human Skulls , mused Bradley . 
They must have been collectin' 'em since Adam , he thought , and then he crossed and entered the building through the doorway that had been pointed out to him . 
A seat protruded from each of the four sides of the pedestals just a flat board with a support running from its outer end diagonally to the base of the pedestal . 
As Bradley entered , some of the Wieroos espied him , and a dismal wail arose . 
Whether it was a greeting or a threat , Bradley did not know . 
Suddenly from a dark alcove another Wieroo rushed out toward him . 
Who are you ? he cried . 
What do you want ? Fosh bal soj sent me here to eat , replied Bradley . 
Do you belong to Fosh bal soj ? asked the other . 
That appears to be what he thinks , answered the Englishman . 
Are you cos ata lu ? demanded the Wieroo . 
Give me something to eat or I'll be all of that , replied Bradley . 
At the other end of the skewer was fastened a small clam shell . 
This was used to scoop up the smaller and softer portions of the repast into which all four of the occupants of each table dipped impartially . 
Bradley was glad that he had a pedestal all to himself . 
Soon the keeper of the place returned with a wooden bowl filled with food . 
This he dumped into Bradley's trough , as he already thought of it . 
The Englishman was glad that he could not see into the dark alcove or know what were all the ingredients that constituted the mess before him , for he was very hungry . 
After the first mouthful he cared even less to investigate the antecedents of the dish , for he found it peculiarly palatable . 
When he had finished , his trough was empty , and then he commenced to wonder who was to settle for his meal . 
As he waited for the proprietor to return , he fell to examining the dish from which he had eaten and the pedestal upon which it rested . 
Everything about the place carried the impression of hoary age . 
Finally , seeing that no one came to collect , Bradley arose and started for the doorway . 
He had covered half the distance when he heard the voice of mine host calling to him Come back , jaal lu , screamed the Wieroo and Bradley did as he was bid . 
The conjectures awakened by even a momentary consideration of the possibilities involved became at once as wildly bizarre as the insane imagings of a drug addict . 
Bradley seized the pen and in a clear , bold hand wrote John Bradley , England . 
The Wieroo showed evidences of consternation as it seized the piece of paper and examined the writing with every mark of incredulity and surprise . 
Reassuring cuss , thought Bradley as he turned and left the building . 
Outside were several Wieroos that had been eating at the pedestals within . 
They immediately surrounded him , asking all sorts of questions , plucking at his garments , his ammunition belt and his pistol . 
Loud wails arose , great wings opened and closed with a loud , beating noise and many clawlike hands reached forth to clutch him . 
Bradley struck to right and left . 
A moment later they swarmed about his head as he ran for the apartment in which he had spent the early hours of the morning after his arrival . 
Immediately the pursuing Wieroos demanded punishment of the jaal lu who had so grievously maltreated them . 
So sudden was the assault and so surprising the strength of the Wieroo that the Englishman was taken completely off his guard . 
When he arose , the door was closed , and Fosh bal soj was standing over him , his hideous face contorted into an expression of rage and hatred . 
Hyena , snake , lizard ! he screamed . 
The other Wieroo that had been asleep when Bradley left the chamber had departed , and the two were alone . 
But Fosh bal soj was of no mind to die passively . 
Fosh bal soj was possessed of enormous strength and he was fighting for his life . 
The Englishman soon realized that the battle was going against him . 
Already his lungs were pounding painfully for air as he reached for his pistol . 
It was with difficulty that he drew it from its holster , and even then , with death staring him in the face , he thought of his precious ammunition . 
Can't waste it , he thought and slipping his fingers to the barrel he raised the weapon and struck Fosh bal soj a terrific blow between the eyes . 
Instantly the clawlike fingers released their hold , and the creature sank limply to the floor beside Bradley , who lay for several minutes gasping painfully in an effort to regain his breath . 
Stepping to the second door he pushed it gently open and peered in upon what seemed to be a store room . 
In one corner was a pile of human skulls reaching almost to the ceiling and in another a stack of dried Wieroo wings . 
As quickly as possible Bradley dragged the dead Wieroo through the doorway and closed the door then he looked about for a place to conceal the corpse . 
One of the chests was large enough to hold the body if the knees were bent well up , and with this idea in view Bradley approached the chest to open it . 
Bradley raised one half the cover and looked in . 
With a smothered By Jove ! he bent closer to examine the contents the chest was about half filled with an assortment of golden trinkets . 
There were what appeared to be bracelets , anklets and brooches of virgin gold . 
Realizing that there was no room in the chest for the body of the Wieroo , Bradley turned to seek another means of concealing the evidence of his crime . 
Before him and about two feet away was the blank wall of another building . 
Bradley opened the door a little farther and looked in both directions . 
There was no one in sight to the left over a considerable expanse of roof top , and to the right another building shut off his line of vision at about twenty feet . 
Slipping out , he turned to the right and in a few steps found a narrow passageway between two buildings . 
Turning into this he passed about half its length when he saw a Wieroo appear at the opposite end and halt . 
The creature was not looking down the passageway but at any moment it might turn its eyes toward him , when he would be immediately discovered . 
To Bradley's left was a triangular niche in the wall of one of the houses and into this he dodged , thus concealing himself from the sight of the Wieroo . 
The result bore some resemblance to a crazy patchwork quilt , which was heightened when , as in one of the doors he had seen , contiguous patches were painted different colors . 
An eccentric disk upon the inside face of the door engaged a slot in the frame when it was desired to secure the door against intruders . 
Her skin was white as from long confinement within doors but it was clear and fine . 
If the girl was surprised by the sudden appearance of Bradley , the latter was absolutely astounded to discover so wondrous a creature among the hideous inhabitants of the City of Human Skulls . 
For a moment the two looked at one another in unconcealed consternation , and then Bradley spoke , using to the best of his poor ability , the common tongue of Caspak . 
Who are you , he asked , and from where do you come ? Do not tell me that you are a Wieroo . 
No , she replied , I am no Wieroo . 
And she shuddered slightly as she pronounced the word . 
I am a Galu but who and what are you ? I am sure that you are no Galu , from your garments but you are like the Galus in other respects . 
At sight of Bradley the creature became furious . 
Whence came this reptile ? it demanded of the girl . 
How long has it been here with you ? It came through the doorway just ahead of you , Bradley answered for the girl . 
It is well for the girl that this is so , it said , for now only you will have to die . 
And stepping to the door the creature raised its voice in one of those uncanny , depressing wails . 
The Englishman looked toward the girl . 
Shall I kill it ? he asked , half drawing his pistol . 
What is best to do ? I do not wish to endanger you . 
The Wieroo backed toward the door . 
You dare to threaten one of the sacred chosen of Luata ! Do not kill him , cried the girl , for then there could be no hope for you . 
And what of you ? asked Bradley . 
I am already doomed , replied the girl I am cos ata lo . 
Do you mean they will kill you ? asked Bradley . 
I but wish that they would , replied the girl . 
My fate is to be worse than death in just a few nights more , with the coming of the new moon . 
Poor she snake ! snapped the Wieroo . 
You are to become sacred above all other shes . 
He Who Speaks for Luata has chosen you for himself . 
Today you go to his temple the Wieroo used a phrase meaning literally High Place where you will receive the sacred commands . 
The girl shuddered and cast a sorrowful glance toward Bradley . 
She shook her head sorrowfully . 
Even if we escaped the city , she replied , there is the big water between the island of Oo oh and the Galu shore . 
And what is beyond the city , if we could leave it ? pursued Bradley . 
The others are at the far end of the island , which is about three marches from end to end and at its widest point about one march . 
This jaal lu , cried the offended one , has threatened me . 
Take its hatchet from it and make it fast where it can do no harm until He Who Speaks for Luata has said what shall be done with it . 
It is one of those strange creatures that Fosh bal soj discovered first above the Band lu country and followed back toward the beginning . 
He Who Speaks for Luata sent Fosh bal soj to fetch him one of the creatures , and here it is . 
It is hoped that it may be from another world and hold the secret of the cos ata lus . 
Two were down and a great wailing and moaning was arising when reinforcements appeared from above . 
Instantly a dozen more were piling on top of him . 
His pistol was wrenched from its holster and he was securely pinioned down by the weight of numbers . 
At a word from the Wieroo of the yellow slashing who evidently was a person of authority , one left and presently returned with fiber ropes with which Bradley was tightly bound . 
Now bear him to the Blue Place of Seven Skulls , directed the chief Wieroo , and one take the word of all that has passed to Him Who Speaks for Luata . 
Each of the creatures raised a hand , the back against its face , as though in salute . 
Below him Bradley could see the city stretching away to a distance on every hand . 
It was not as large as he had imagined , though he judged that it was at least three miles square . 
The houses were piled in indescribable heaps , sometimes to a height of a hundred feet . 
The colors were varied and startling , the architecture amazing . 
The Wieroo bearing Bradley passed over one corner of the open space about the large building , revealing to the Englishman grass and trees and running water beneath . 
They passed the building and about five hundred yards beyond the creature alighted on the roof of a square , blue building surmounted by seven poles bearing seven skulls . 
This then , thought Bradley , is the Blue Place of Seven Skulls . 
Over the opening in the roof was a grated covering , and this the Wieroo removed . 
The thing then tied a piece of fiber rope to one of Bradley's ankles and rolled him over the edge of the opening . 
All was dark below and for an instant the Englishman came as near to experiencing real terror as he had ever come in his life before . 
As he rolled off into the black abyss he felt the rope tighten about his ankle and an instant later he was stopped with a sudden jerk to swing pendulumlike , head downward . 
He felt the free end of the rope dropped upon him and heard the grating being slid into place above him . 
Chapter Half stunned , Bradley lay for a minute as he had fallen and then slowly and painfully wriggled into a less uncomfortable position . 
He discovered himself to be in a bare room which was windowless , nor could he see any other opening than that through which he had been lowered . 
In one corner was a huddled mass that might have been almost anything from a bundle of rags to a dead body . 
Almost immediately after he had taken his bearings Bradley commenced working with his bonds . 
After a matter of five minutes he was positive that the strands about his wrists were beginning to give but he was compelled to rest then from exhaustion . 
As he lay , his eyes rested upon the bundle in the corner , and presently he could have sworn that the thing moved . 
With eyes straining through the gloom the man lay watching the grim and sinister thing in the corner . 
Perhaps his overwrought nerves were playing a sorry joke upon him . 
He thought of this and also that his condition of utter helplessness might still further have stimulated his imagination . 
With renewed strength Bradley strained at his bonds , his fascinated gaze still glued upon the shapeless bundle . 
No longer was there any doubt that it moved he saw it rise in the center several inches and then creep closer to him . 
It sank and arose again a headless , hideous , monstrous thing of menace . 
Its very silence rendered it the more terrible . 
It was not death that he feared now it was that horror of the unknown that is part of the fiber of every son of woman . 
Closer and closer came the shapeless mass . 
Bradley lay motionless and listened . 
What was that he heard ! Breathing ? He could not be mistaken and then from out of the bundle of rags issued a hollow groan . 
Bradley felt his hair rise upon his head . 
He struggled with the slowly parting strands that held him . 
The thing beside him rose up higher than before and the Englishman could have sworn that he saw a single eye peering at him from among the tumbled cloth . 
For a moment the bundle remained motionless only the sound of breathing issued from it , then there broke from it a maniacal laugh . 
Cold sweat stood upon Bradley's brow as he tugged for liberation . 
Food ! Food ! it screamed . 
There is a way out ! There is a way out ! Dragging itself to his side the creature slumped upon the Englishman's breast . 
Food ! it shrilled as with its bony fingers and its teeth , it sought the man's bare throat . 
Food ! There is a way out ! Bradley felt teeth upon his jugular . 
He turned and twisted , shaking himself free for an instant but once more with hideous persistence the thing fastened itself upon him . 
The weak jaws were unable to send the dull teeth through the victim's flesh but Bradley felt it pawing , pawing , pawing , like a monstrous rat , seeking his life's blood . 
The skinny arms now embraced his neck , holding the teeth to his throat against all his efforts to dislodge the thing . 
Weak as it was it had strength enough for this in its mad efforts to eat . 
Mumbling as it worked , it repeated again and again , Food ! Food ! There is a way out ! until Bradley thought those two expressions alone would drive him mad . 
Panting like a spent hound Bradley worked at the thongs about his ankles while the maniac lay quivering and mumbling where it had fallen . 
Presently the Englishman leaped to his feet freer than he had ever before felt in all his life , though he was still hopelessly a prisoner in the Blue Place of Seven Skulls . 
With his back against the wall for support , so weak the reaction left him , Bradley stood watching the creature upon the floor . 
And then , too , there was the suggestion of hope held out by the constant reiteration of the phrase , There is a way out . 
Was there a way out ? What did this poor thing know ? Who are you and how long have you been here ? Bradley suddenly demanded . 
It brought the man to a sitting posture , his hands off the ground . 
He stopped swaying to and fro and appeared to be startled into an attempt to master his faculties of concentration and thought . 
Bradley repeated his questions sharply . 
I am An Tak , the Galu , replied the man . 
Luata alone knows how long I have been here maybe ten moons , maybe ten moons three times it was the Caspakian equivalent of thirty . 
I was young and strong when they brought me here . 
Now I am old and very weak . 
I am cos ata lu that is why they have not killed me . 
Food ! Food ! There is a way out ! mumbled the Galu . 
Bradley strode across the floor , seized the man by his shoulders and shook him . 
Tell me , he cried , what is cos ata lu ? Food ! whimpered An Tak . 
His haversack had not been taken from him . 
In it besides his razor and knife were odds and ends of equipment and a small quantity of dried meat . 
He tossed a small strip of the latter to the starving Galu . 
An Tak seized upon it and devoured it ravenously . 
It instilled new life in the man . 
What is cos ata lu ? insisted Bradley again . 
An Tak tried to explain . 
In it he found explanations of the hitherto inexplicable . 
He learned that all but those who were cos ata lu came up cor sva jo , or from the beginning . 
Down the warm stream from the pool floated the countless billions of eggs and tadpoles , developing as they drifted slowly toward the sea . 
Some became tadpoles in the pool , some in the sluggish stream and some not until they reached the great inland sea . 
Few indeed were those that eventually developed into baboons and then apes , which was considered by Caspakians the real beginning of evolution . 
With that thought in mind Bradley discovered that it was not difficult to believe in the possibility of such a scheme there was nothing new in it . 
If an egg survives it goes through all the stages of development that man has passed through during the unthinkable eons since life first moved upon the earth's face . 
Seven cycles it requires before the seventh Galu can complete the seventh danger infested circle since its first Galu ancestor achieved the state of Galu . 
In fact , it seemed even less difficult of comprehension than that with which he was familiar . 
For several minutes after An Tak ceased speaking , his voice having trailed off weakly into silence , neither spoke again . 
What do you mean by saying there is a way out ? he asked . 
He who died here just after I came , told me , replied An Tak . 
He said there was a way out , that he had discovered it but was too weak to use his knowledge . 
He was trying to tell me how to find it when he died . 
Oh , Luata , if he had lived but a moment more ! They do not feed you here ? asked Bradley . 
No , they give me water once a day that is all . 
But how have you lived , then ? The lizards and the rats , replied An Tak . 
The lizards are not so bad but the rats are foul to taste . 
I shall eat though , he mumbled . 
I shall eat now , for you cannot remain awake forever . 
He laughed , a cackling , dry laugh . 
When you sleep , An Tak will eat . 
For a long time each sat in silence . 
The Englishman could guess why the other made no sound he awaited the moment that sleep should overcome his victim . 
In the long silence there was born upon Bradley's ears a faint , monotonous sound as of running water . 
It seemed to come from far beneath the floor . 
What is that noise ? he asked . 
That sounds like water running through a narrow channel . 
It is the river , replied An Tak . 
Why do you not go to sleep ? It passes directly beneath the Blue Place of Seven Skulls . 
It runs through the temple grounds , beneath the temple and under the city . 
When we die , they will cut off our heads and throw our bodies into the river . 
At the mouth of the river await many large reptiles . 
The Wieroos do likewise with their own dead , keeping only the skulls and the wings . 
Come , let us sleep . 
Do the reptiles come up the river into the city ? asked Bradley . 
The water is too cold they never leave the warm water of the great pool , replied An Tak . 
Let us search for the way out , suggested Bradley . 
An Tak shook his head . 
I have searched for it all these moons , he said . 
About six feet from the floor he discovered a sleeping perch near one end of the apartment . 
He asked An Tak about it , but the Galu said that no Weiroo had occupied the place since he had been incarcerated there . 
Again and again Bradley went over the floor and walls as high up as he could reach . 
Finally he swung himself to the perch , that he might examine at least one end of the room all the way to the ceiling . 
In the center of the wall close to the top , an area about three feet square gave forth a hollow sound when he rapped upon it . 
Bradley felt over every square inch of that area with the tips of his fingers . 
Near the top he found a small round hole a trifle larger in diameter than his forefinger , which he immediately stuck into it . 
The panel , if such it was , seemed about an inch thick , and beyond it his finger encountered nothing . 
Bradley crooked his finger upon the opposite side of the panel and pulled toward him , steadily but with considerable force . 
Suddenly the panel flew inward , nearly precipitating the man to the floor . 
It was hinged at the bottom , and when lowered the outer edge rested upon the perch , making a little platform parallel with the floor of the room . 
Beyond the opening was an utterly dark void . 
The Englishman leaned through it and reached his arm as far as possible into the blackness but touched nothing . 
Then he fumbled in his haversack for a match , a few of which remained to him . 
When he struck it , An Tak gave a cry of terror . 
Bradley held the light far into the opening before him and in its flickering rays saw the top of a ladder descending into a black abyss below . 
How far down it extended he could not guess but that he should soon know definitely he was positive . 
You have found it ! You have found the way out ! screamed An Tak . 
Oh , Luata ! And now I am too weak to go . 
Take me with you ! Take me with you ! Shut up ! admonished Bradley . 
You will have the whole flock of birds around our heads in a minute , and neither of us will escape . 
Be quiet , and I'll go ahead . 
If I find a way out , I'll come back and help you , if you'll promise not to try to eat me up again . 
I promise , cried An Tak . 
I know , said Bradley simply . 
I'm sorry for you , old top . 
Keep a stiff upper lip . 
And he slipped through the opening , found the ladder with his feet , closed the panel behind him , and started downward into the darkness . 
Below him rose more and more distinctly the sound of running water . 
The air felt damp and cool . 
The bottom of the ladder rested on a narrow ledge paved with what felt like large round stones , but what he knew from experience to be human skulls . 
For all these eons the Wieroos might have been collecting human skulls from their enemies and their own dead enough to have built an entire city of them . 
Feeling his way along the narrow ledge , Bradley came presently to a blank wall that stretched out over the water swirling beneath him , as far as he could reach . 
Stooping , he groped about with one hand , reaching down toward the surface of the water , and discovered that the bottom of the wall arched above the stream . 
How much space there was between the water and the arch he could not tell , nor how deep the former . 
There was only one way in which he might learn these things , and that was to lower himself into the stream . 
For only an instant he hesitated weighing his chances . 
Behind him lay almost certainly the horrid fate of An Tak before him nothing worse than a comparatively painless death by drowning . 
Holding his haversack above his head with one hand he lowered his feet slowly over the edge of the narrow platform . 
Almost immediately he felt the swirling of cold water about his ankles , and then with a silent prayer he let himself drop gently into the stream . 
Great was Bradley's relief when he found the water no more than waist deep and beneath his feet a firm , gravel bottom . 
Feeling his way cautiously he moved downward with the current , which was not so strong as he had imagined from the noise of the running water . 
Beneath the first arch he made his way , following the winding curvatures of the right hand wall . 
After a few yards of progress his hand came suddenly in contact with a slimy thing clinging to the wall a thing that hissed and scuttled out of reach . 
What it was , the man could not know but almost instantly there was a splash in the water just ahead of him and then another . 
On he went , passing beneath other arches at varying distances , and always in utter darkness . 
Unseen denizens of this great sewer , disturbed by the intruder , splashed into the water ahead of him and wriggled away . 
Time and again his hand touched them and never for an instant could he be sure that at the next step some gruesome thing might not attack him . 
He had strapped his haversack about his neck , well above the surface of the water , and in his left hand he carried his knife . 
Other precautions there were none to take . 
The monotony of the blind trail was increased by the fact that from the moment he had started from the foot of the ladder he had counted his every step . 
He had taken two hundred and sixty nine steps afterward he knew that he should never forget that number when something bumped gently against him from behind . 
Instantly he wheeled about and with knife ready to defend himself stretched forth his right hand to push away the object that now had lodged against his body . 
With an oath he pushed his gruesome companion out into mid stream to float on down toward the great pool and the awaiting scavengers of the deep . 
Above him was an arched roof and on either hand walls pierced at intervals by apertures covered with wooden doors . 
Just ahead of him in the roof of the aqueduct was a round , black hole about thirty inches in diameter . 
In the dim light Bradley saw that it was a dead Wieroo from which the wings and head had been removed . 
A moment later another headless body floated past , recalling what An Tak had told him of the skull collecting customs of the Wieroo . 
Bradley wondered how it happened that the first corpse he had encountered in the stream had not been similarly mutilated . 
The farther he advanced now , the lighter it became . 
One of the last corpses to pass him was still clothed in the white robe of a Wieroo , blood stained over the headless neck that it concealed . 
Drawing closer to the opening leading into the bright daylight , Bradley surveyed what lay beyond . 
To and fro flew Wieroos , going to and from the temple . 
Others passed on foot across the open grounds , assisting themselves with their great wings , so that they barely skimmed the earth . 
The thought of traversing that dark and horror ridden tunnel for perhaps miles he could not entertain there must be some other way . 
Turning quickly he saw that the thing was what he had immediately guessed it to be a headless and wingless Wieroo corpse . 
With a grunt of disgust he was about to push it from him when the white garment enshrouding it suggested a bold plan to his resourceful brain . 
Grasping the corpse by an arm he tore the garment from it and then let the body float downward toward the temple . 
With great care he draped the robe about him the bloody blotch that had covered the severed neck he arranged about his own head . 
His haversack he rolled as tightly as possible and stuffed beneath his coat over his breast . 
Then he fell gently to the surface of the stream and lying upon his back floated downward with the current and out into the open sunlight . 
Through the weave of the cloth he could distinguish large objects . 
Quickly he felt for bottom with his feet and as quickly stood erect , snatching the bloody , clammy cloth from his face . 
On both sides were blank walls and before him the river turned a sharp corner and disappeared . 
Feeling his way cautiously forward he approached the turn and looked around the corner . 
A few feet along the platform a closed door broke the blankness of the wall . 
The creature carried a large wooden basin filled with rubbish . 
The Wieroo stepped to the edge of the platform and dumped the rubbish into the stream . 
The Wieroo paused a moment , gazing down into the water , then it straightened up and turned toward the Englishman . 
The Wieroo stopped and stared intently at him . 
Still Bradley remained as though carved of stone . 
The creature was directly in front of him . 
There was no chance on earth that it would not discover what he was . 
Then he looked at the open doorway , crossed the platform and peered within the apartment beyond . 
What he saw was a large room , dimly lighted , and about the side rows of wooden vessels stacked one upon another . 
There was no Wieroo in sight , so the Englishman entered . 
Without more ado he stuffed his pockets and his haversack full , thinking of the poor creature awaiting his return in the gloom of the Place of Seven Skulls . 
Beyond the farther door stretched a long passageway from which closed doorways led into other parts of the cellars of the temple . 
A few yards from the storeroom a ladder rose from the corridor through an aperture in the ceiling . 
What new mysteries lay hidden in the chambers above ? The urge to know was strong upon him though his better judgment warned him that the safer course lay in retreat . 
For a moment he stood thus , running his fingers through his hair then he cast discretion to the winds and began the ascent . 
In conformity with such Wieroo architecture as he had already observed , the well through which the ladder rose continually canted at an angle from the perpendicular . 
At more or less regular stages it was pierced by apertures closed by doors , none of which he could open until he had climbed fully fifty feet from the river level . 
The girl's side was toward Bradley , and her face averted , for she was watching the Wieroo , who was now advancing slowly toward her , talking as he came . 
Bradley could distinctly hear the words of the creature , who was urging the girl to accompany him to another Wieroo city . 
He was quite close to the girl when she replied by striking him in the face with all her strength . 
Until I am slain , she cried , I shall fight against you all . 
The Englishman was upon the point of entering to defend her when a door at the opposite side of the chamber opened to admit a huge Wieroo clothed entirely in red . 
At sight of the two struggling upon the floor the newcomer raised his voice in a shriek of rage . 
Instantly the Wieroo who was attacking the girl leaped to his feet and faced the other . 
I heard , screamed he who had just entered the room . 
I heard , and when He Who Speaks for Lu ata shall have heard He paused and made a suggestive movement of a finger across his throat . 
He shall not hear , returned the first Wieroo as , with a powerful motion of his great wings , he launched himself upon the red robed figure . 
The latter dodged the first charge , drew a wicked looking curved blade from beneath its red robe , spread its wings and dived for its antagonist . 
Beating their wings , wailing and groaning , the two hideous things sparred for position . 
Once it struck and missed , and then the other rushed in and clinched , at the same time securing both the holds it sought . 
Immediately the two commenced beating at each other's heads with the joints of their wings , kicking with their soft , puny feet and biting , each at the other's face . 
For an instant longer the victor clung to the throat of his defeated antagonist and then he rose , dragging the body after him , and approached the central column . 
Here he raised the body and thrust it into the aperture where Bradley saw it drop suddenly from sight . 
Instantly there flashed into his memory the circular openings in the roof of the river vault and the corpses he had seen drop from them to the water beneath . 
As the body disappeared , the Wieroo turned and cast about the room for the girl . 
For a moment he stood eying her . 
You saw , and you must die ! he ended with a scream as he rushed upon the girl . 
Leaping into the room he ran for the Wieroo , who had already seized the girl , and as he ran , he stooped and picked up the curved blade . 
The creature's back was toward him as , with his left hand , he seized it by the neck . 
Like a flash the great wings beat backward as the creature turned , and Bradley was swept from his feet , though he still retained his hold upon the blade . 
Instantly the Wieroo was upon him . 
Pushing it from him he rose to his feet and faced the wide eyed girl . 
How came you here ? Bradley shrugged . 
Here I am , he said but the thing now is to get out of here both of us . 
The girl shook her head . 
It cannot be , she stated sadly . 
That is what I thought when they dropped me into the Blue Place of Seven Skulls , replied Bradley . 
Here ! You're mussing up the floor something awful , you . 
This last to the dead Wieroo as he stooped and dragged the corpse to the central shaft , where he raised it to the aperture and let it slip into the tube . 
Then he picked up the head and tossed it after the body . 
That's so , admitted Bradley , and I suppose he does feel a bit cut up about it . 
The girl shook her head and edged away from the man toward the door . 
Come ! said the Englishman . 
We've got to get out of here . 
If you don't know a better way than the river , it's the river then . 
The girl still eyed him askance . 
But how could he smile when he was dead ? Bradley laughed aloud . 
I thought we English were supposed to have the least sense of humor of any people in the world , he cried but now I've found one human being who hasn't any . 
Even if she did not understand all he said , she at least read something in his smiling , countenance something which reassured her . 
I do not fear you , she said though I do not understand all that you say even though you speak my own tongue and use words that I know . 
But as for escaping she sighed alas , how can it be done ? I escaped from the Blue Place of Seven Skulls , Bradley reminded her . 
Come ! And he turned toward the shaft and the ladder that he had ascended from the river . 
We cannot waste time here . 
The girl followed him but at the doorway both drew back , for from below came the sound of some one ascending . 
Bradley tiptoed to the door and peered cautiously into the well then he stepped back beside the girl . 
There are half a dozen of them coming up but possibly they will pass this room . 
No , she said , they will pass directly through this room they are on their way to Him Who Speaks for Luata . 
We may be able to hide in the next room there are skins there beneath which we may crawl . 
They will not stop in that room but they may stop in this one for a short time the other room is blue . 
What's that go to do with it ? demanded the Englishman . 
They fear blue , she replied . 
In every room where murder has been done you will find blue a certain amount for each murder . 
When the room is all blue , they shun it . 
This room has much blue but evidently they kill mostly in the next room , which is now all blue . 
But there is blue on the outside of every house I have seen , said Bradley . 
There are many such here . 
And the skulls with blue upon them ? inquired Bradley . 
Did they belong to murderers ? They were murdered some of them those with only a small amount of blue were murderers known murderers . 
I have never seen such a one . 
A moment later they heard a number of Wieroos enter the chamber . 
They were talking together as they crossed the floor , or the two could not have heard them . 
Halfway across the chamber they halted as the door toward which they were advancing opened and a dozen others of their kind entered the apartment . 
Nor could he hear their stealthy approach . 
They would have slain him on the spot had not one clothed all in red held them back , saying that He Who Speaks for Luata desired to see this strange creature . 
He wondered if she would have the nerve to attempt the river trip alone and regretted that now he could not accompany her . 
He had dropped the curved blade beneath the hides when he had been jerked so violently from their fancied security . 
It was almost in a spirit of resigned hopelessness that he quietly accompanied his captors through various chambers and corridors toward the heart of the temple . 
Chapter The farther the group progressed , the more barbaric and the more sumptuous became the decorations . 
Hides of leopard and tiger predominated , apparently because of their more beautiful markings , and decorative skulls became more and more numerous . 
And also as they advanced the more numerous became the Wieroos moving hither and thither within the temple . 
Many now were the solid red robes and those that were slashed with blue a veritable hive of murderers . 
At last the party halted in a room in which were many Wieroos who gathered about Bradley questioning his captors and examining him and his apparel . 
One of the party accompanying the Englishman spoke to a Wieroo that stood beside a door leading from the room . 
Tell Him Who Speaks for Luata , he said , that Fosh bal soj we could not find but that in returning we found this creature within the temple , hiding . 
It must be the same that Fosh bal soj captured in the Sto lu country during the last darkness . 
Doubtless He Who Speaks for Luata would wish to see and question this strange thing . 
The creature addressed turned and slipped through the doorway , closing the door after it , but first depositing its curved blade upon the floor without . 
Its post was immediately taken by another and Bradley now saw that at least twenty such guards loitered in the immediate vicinity . 
The creature's face was white with the whiteness of a corpse , its dead eyes entirely expressionless , its cruel , thin lips tight drawn against yellow teeth in a perpetual grimace . 
Upon either side of it lay an enormous , curved sword , similar to those with which some of the other Wieroos had been armed , but larger and heavier . 
Constantly its clawlike fingers played with one or the other of these weapons . 
The walls of the chamber as well as the floor were entirely hidden by skins and woven fabrics . 
Blue predominated in all the colorations . 
Fastened against the hides were many pairs of Wieroo wings , mounted so that they resembled long , black shields . 
Upon the ceiling were painted in blue characters a bewildering series of hieroglyphics and upon pedestals set against the walls or standing out well within the room were many human skulls . 
O Thou Who Speakest for Luata ! exclaimed one of the party . 
We bring you the strange creature that Fosh bal soj captured and brought thither at thy command . 
For a long minute he glared at Bradley . 
Then he began to question him from whence he came and how , the name and description of his native country , and a hundred other queries . 
Are you cos ata lu ? the creature asked . 
Bradley replied that he was and that all his kind were , as well as every living thing in his part of the world . 
Can you tell me the secret ? asked the creature . 
Bradley hesitated and then , thinking to gain time , replied in the affirmative . 
What is it ? demanded the Wieroo , leaning far forward and exhibiting every evidence of excited interest . 
The thing rose in wrath , holding one of its swords above its head . 
Who are you to make terms for Him Who Speaks for Luata ? it shrilled . 
Tell me the secret or die where you stand ! And if I die now , the secret goes with me , Bradley reminded him . 
Never again will you get the opportunity to question another of my kind who knows the secret . 
Anything to gain time , to get the rest of the Wieroos from the room , that he might plan some scheme for escape and put it into effect . 
The creature turned upon the leader of the party that had brought Bradley . 
Is the thing with weapons ? it asked . 
No , was the response . 
Then go but tell the guard to remain close by , commanded the high one . 
The Wieroos salaamed and withdrew , closing the door behind them . 
He Who Speaks for Luata grasped a sword nervously in his right hand . 
At his left side lay the second weapon . 
It was evident that he lived in constant dread of being assassinated . 
The fact that he permitted none with weapons within his presence and that he always kept two swords at his side pointed to this . 
Bradley was racking his brain to find some suggestion of a plan whereby he might turn the situation to his own account . 
Quick ! screamed the thing . 
The secret ! Will you give me and the girl our freedom ? insisted Bradley . 
For an instant the thing hesitated , and then it grumbled Yes . 
At the same instant Bradley saw two hides upon the wall directly back of the dais separate and a face appear in the opening . 
Listen , then , said Bradley in a low voice to the Wieroo . 
You shall know the secret of cos ata lu as well as do I but none other may hear it . 
Lean close I will whisper it into your ear . 
He moved forward and stepped upon the dais . 
The creature raised its sword ready to strike at the first indication of treachery , and Bradley stooped beneath the blade and put his ear close to the gruesome face . 
Wide eyed and panting the girl seized his arm . 
Oh , what have you done ? she cried . 
He Who Speaks for Luata will be avenged by Luata . 
Now indeed must you die . 
There is no escape , for even though we reached my own country Luata can find you out . 
Bosh ! exclaimed Bradley , and then But you were going to knife him yourself . 
Then I alone should have died , she replied . 
Neither of us is going to die , he said at least not at the hands of any god . 
If we don't get out of here though , we'll die right enough . 
I came hither because I only met Wieroos who knew that I am supposed now to be in the temple but you could go elsewhere without being discovered . 
Bradley's ingenuity had come up against a stone wall . 
There seemed no possibility of escape . 
They were in a small room where lay a litter of rubbish torn bits of cloth , old hides , pieces of fiber rope . 
In the center of the room was a cylindrical shaft with an opening in its face . 
Bradley knew it for what it was . 
Here the arch fiend dragged his victims and cast their bodies into the river of death far below . 
The floor about the opening in the shaft and the sides of the shaft were clotted thick with a dried , dark brown substance that the Englishman knew had once been blood . 
The place had the appearance of having been a veritable shambles . 
An odor of decaying flesh permeated the air . 
The Englishman crossed to the shaft and peered into the opening . 
All below was dark as pitch but at the bottom he knew was the river . 
Suddenly an inspiration and a bold scheme leaped to his mind . 
Turning quickly he hunted about the room until he found what he sought a quantity of the rope that lay strewn here and there . 
With rapid fingers he unsnarled the different lengths , the girl helping him , and then he tied the ends together until he had three ropes about seventy five feet in length . 
He fastened these together at each end and without a word secured one of the ends about the girl's body beneath her arms . 
Don't be frightened , he said at length , as he led her toward the opening in the shaft . 
I'm going to lower you to the river , and then I'm coming down after you . 
When you are safe below , give two quick jerks upon the rope . 
If there is danger there and you want me to draw you up into the shaft , jerk once . 
Don't be afraid it is the only way . 
I am not afraid , replied the girl , rather haughtily Bradley thought , and herself climbed through the aperture and hung by her hands waiting for Bradley to lower her . 
As rapidly as was consistent with safety , the man paid out the rope . 
When it was about half out , he heard loud cries and wails suddenly arise within the room they had just quitted . 
The slaying of their god had been discovered by the Wieroos . 
A search for the slayer would begin at once . 
Instantly Bradley made the rest of the strands fast about the shaft , slipped into the black tube and began a hurried descent toward the river . 
An instant later he stood waist deep in water beside the girl . 
Impulsively she reached toward him and grasped his arm . 
A strange thrill ran through him at the contact but he only cut the rope from about her body and lifted her to the little shelf at the river's side . 
How can we leave here ? she asked . 
By the river , he replied but first I must go back to the Blue Place of Seven Skulls and get the poor devil I left there . 
I'll have to wait until after dark , though , as I cannot pass through the open stretch of river in the temple gardens by day . 
There is another way , said the girl . 
I have never seen it but often I have heard them speak of it a corridor that runs beside the river from one end of the city to the other . 
Through the gardens it is below ground . 
If we could find an entrance to it , we could leave here at once . 
It is not safe here , for they will search every inch of the temple and the grounds . 
We'll have a look for it , anyway . 
And so saying he approached one of the doors that opened onto the skull paved shelf . 
They found the corridor easily , for it paralleled the river , separated from it only by a single wall . 
It took them beneath the gardens and the city , always through inky darkness . 
Ten yards from where he had emerged he found them , while the girl waited upon the opposite side . 
To ascend to the secret panel was the work of but a minute . 
Here he paused and listened lest a Wieroo might be visiting the prison in search of him or the other inmate but no sound came from the gloomy interior . 
Bradley could not but muse upon the joy of the man on the opposite side when he should drop down to him with food and a new hope for escape . 
Then he opened the panel and looked into the room . 
The faint light from the grating above revealed the pile of rags in one corner but the man lay beneath them , he made no response to Bradley's low greeting . 
The Englishman lowered himself to the floor of the room and approached the rags . 
Stooping he lifted a corner of them . 
Yes , there was the man asleep . 
Bradley shook him there was no response . 
He stooped lower and in the dim light examined An Tak then he stood up with a sigh . 
A rat leaped from beneath the coverings and scurried away . 
Poor devil ! muttered Bradley . 
He crossed the room to swing himself to the perch preparatory to quitting the Blue Place of Seven Skulls forever . 
Beneath the perch he paused . 
I'll not give them the satisfaction , he growled . 
Let them believe that he escaped . 
Returning to the pile of rags he gathered the man into his arms . 
Good bye , old top ! he whispered . 
A moment later he had rejoined the girl and hand in hand they were following the dark corridor upstream toward the farther end of the city . 
If they come close enough , she said , we can see their eyes shining in the dark they resemble dull splotches of light . 
They glow , but do not blaze like the eyes of the tiger or the lion . 
The man could not but note the very evident horror with which she mentioned the creatures . 
To him they were uncanny but she had been used to them for a year almost , and probably all her life she had either seen or heard of them constantly . 
Why do you fear them so ? he asked . 
It seems more than any ordinary fear of the harm they can do you . 
She tried to explain but the nearest he could gather was that she looked upon the Wieroo almost as supernatural beings . 
There is a legend current among my people that once the Wieroo were unlike us only in that they possessed rudimentary wings . 
They lived in villages in the Galu country , and while the two peoples often warred , they held no hatred for one another . 
In those days each race came up from the beginning and there was great rivalry as to which was the higher in the scale of evolution . 
The Wieroo developed the first cos ata lu but they were always male never could they reproduce woman . 
They called this tas ad , which means doing everything the right way , or , in other words , the Wieroo way . 
If foe or friend , right or wrong , stood in the way of tas ad , then it must be crushed . 
Soon the Galus and the lesser races of men came to hate and fear them . 
It was then that the Wieroos decided to carry tas ad into every part of the world . 
They were very warlike and very numerous , although they had long since adopted the policy of slaying all those among them whose wings did not show advanced development . 
It took ages for all this to happen very slowly came the different changes but at last the Wieroos had wings they could use . 
Always were they slaying those above them that they might rise in power and possessions , until at last came the more powerful than the others with a tas ad all his own . 
He gathered about him a few of the most terrible Wieroos , and among them they made laws which took from all but these few Wieroos every weapon they possessed . 
Now their tas ad has reached a high plane among them . 
They make many wonderful things that we cannot make . 
As the girl talked , the two moved steadily along the dark passageway beside the river . 
Then the corridor ended in a blank wall but in a niche to the right was a ladder leading aloft , and to the left was a door opening onto the river . 
Bradley tried the latter first and as he opened it , felt a heavy spray against his face . 
The little shelf outside the doorway was wet and slippery , the roaring of the water tremendous . 
As he climbed , Bradley felt for openings in the sides of the shaft but he discovered none below fifty feet . 
The first he came to was ajar , letting a faint light into the well . 
Poor things , she whispered . 
This is their horrible fate to be imprisoned here beneath the surface of the city with their hideous offspring whom they hate as they hate their fathers . 
A Wieroo keeps his children thus hidden until they are full grown lest they be murdered by their fellows . 
The lower rooms of the city are filled with many such as these . 
Several feet above was a second door beyond which they found a small room stored with food in wooden vessels . 
A grated window in one wall opened above an alley , and through it they could see that they were just below the roof of the building . 
Darkness was coming , and at Bradley's suggestion they decided to remain hidden here until after dark and then to ascend to the roof and reconnoiter . 
Shortly after they had settled themselves they heard something descending the ladder from above . 
They hoped that it would continue on down the well and fairly held their breath as the sound approached the door to the storeroom . 
Their hearts sank as they heard the door open and from between cracks in the vessels behind which they hid saw a yellow slashed Wieroo enter the room . 
Each recognized him immediately , the girl indicating the fact of her own recognition by a sudden pressure of her fingers on Bradley's arm . 
It was the Wieroo of the yellow slashing whose abode was the place of the yellow door in which Bradley had first seen the girl . 
The creature carried a wooden bowl which it filled with dried food from several of the vessels then it turned and quit the room . 
Bradley could see through the partially open doorway that it descended the ladder . 
We are just below the place of the yellow door , she said . 
It is far from the edge of the city so far that we may not hope to escape if we ascend to the roofs here . 
I think , replied the man , that of all the places in Oo oh this will be the easiest to escape from . 
Anyway , I want to return to the place of the yellow door and get my pistol if it is there . 
It is still there , replied , the girl . 
I saw it placed in a chest where he keeps the things he takes from his prisoners and victims . 
To find the pistol was a matter of but a moment's search on the part of Bradley's companion and then , at the Englishman's signal , she followed him to the yellow door . 
It was quite dark without as the two entered the narrow passage between two buildings . 
A few steps brought them undiscovered to the doorway of the storeroom where lay the body of Fosh bal soj . 
In the distance , toward the temple , they could hear sounds as of a great gathering of Wieroos the peculiar , uncanny wailing rising above the dismal flapping of countless wings . 
They have heard of the killing of Him Who Speaks for Luata , whispered the girl . 
Soon they will spread in all directions searching for us . 
But they will not kill you , said Bradley . 
You did not slay him . 
It will make no difference , she insisted . 
If they find us together they will slay us both . 
Then they won't find us together , announced Bradley decisively . 
Good bye ! You're a mighty decent little girl . 
I wish that I might have helped you . 
I had hoped and hoped to find some way to return to my own country . 
I wanted to go back to An Tak , who must be very lonely without me but I know that it can never be . 
It is difficult to kill hope , though mine is nearly dead . 
An Tak ! Bradley repeated . 
You loved a man called An Tak ? Yes , replied the girl . 
An Tak was away , hunting , when the Wieroo caught me . 
How he must have grieved for me ! He also was cos ata lu , twelve moons older than I , and all our lives we have been together . 
So she loved An Tak . 
He hadn't the heart to tell her that An Tak had died , or how . 
At the door of Fosh bal soj's storeroom they halted to listen . 
No sound came from within , and gently Bradley pushed open the door . 
All was inky darkness as they entered but presently their eyes became accustomed to the gloom that was partially relieved by the soft starlight without . 
The Englishman searched and found those things for which he had come two robes , two pairs of dead wings and several lengths of fiber rope . 
One pair of the wings he adjusted to the girl's shoulders by means of the rope . 
Then he draped the robe about her , carrying the cowl over her head . 
He heard her gasp of astonishment when she realized the ingenuity and boldness of his plan then he directed her to adjust the other pair of wings and the robe upon him . 
Working with strong , deft fingers she soon had the work completed , and the two stepped out upon the roof , to all intent and purpose genuine Wieroos . 
Besides his pistol Bradley carried the sword of the slain Wieroo prophet , while the girl was armed with the small blade of the red Wieroo . 
Side by side they walked slowly across the roofs toward the north edge of the city . 
Wieroos flapped above them and several times they passed others walking or sitting upon the roofs . 
From the temple still rose the sounds of commotion , now pierced by occasional shrill screams . 
The murderers are abroad , whispered the girl . 
Thus will another become the tongue of Luata . 
It is well for us , since it keeps them too busy to give the time for searching for us . 
They think that we cannot escape the city , and they know that we cannot leave the island and so do I. Bradley shook his head . 
If there is any way , we will find it , he said . 
There is no way , replied the girl . 
Bradley made no response , and in silence they continued until the outer edge of roofs was visible before them . 
We are almost there , he whispered . 
The girl felt for his fingers and pressed them . 
He could feel hers trembling as he returned the pressure , nor did he relinquish her hand and thus they came to the edge of the last roof . 
Here they halted and looked about them . 
To be seen attempting to descend to the ground below would be to betray the fact that they were not Wieroos . 
Bradley wished that their wings were attached to their bodies by sinew and muscle rather than by ropes of fiber . 
A Wieroo was flapping far overhead . 
Two more stood near a door a few yards distant . 
It was an hour before the coast was entirely clear and then a moment came when no Wieroo was in sight . 
Now ! whispered Bradley and the girl grasped the rope and slid over the edge of the roof into the darkness below . 
A moment later Bradley felt two quick pulls upon the rope and immediately followed to the girl's side . 
Across a narrow clearing they made their way and into a wood beyond . 
All night they walked , following the river upward toward its source , and at dawn they took shelter in a thicket beside the stream . 
At no time did they hear the cry of a carnivore , and though many startled animals fled as they approached , they were not once menaced by a wild beast . 
Requiring meat for food the Wieroos carried to the island such animals as they wished for that purpose . 
They still occasionally bring them , and this with the natural increase keeps them provided with flesh . 
As it will us , suggested Bradley . 
Not wishing to leave the stream the two waded along its bed to a spot where the gorge widened between perpendicular bluffs to a wooded acre of level land . 
Here they stopped , for here also the stream ended . 
For three days they rested here before trying to explore the neighboring country . 
On the fourth , Bradley stated that he was going to scale the bluffs and learn what lay beyond . 
If this wood was only at the edge of the water , he sighed . 
But it is not , the girl reminded him , and then Let us make the best of it . 
We have escaped from death for a time at least . 
We have food and good water and peace and each other . 
What more could we have upon the mainland ? But I thought you wanted to get back to your own country ! he exclaimed . 
She cast her eyes upon the ground and half turned away . 
I do , she said , yet I am happy here . 
I could be little happier there . 
Bradley stood in silent thought . 
We have food and good water and peace and each other ! he repeated to himself . 
He turned then and looked at the girl , and it was as though in the days that they had been together this was the first time that he had really seen her . 
He took a step toward her . 
She cured the hides of the animals he killed and made them soft by much pounding . 
In the face of the cliff , Bradley scooped a cave from the rotted granite of which the hill was composed , making a shelter for them against the rains . 
The girl always went with him , standing at his side and watching the stern expression on his face with just a tinge of sadness on her own . 
You are not happy , she said once . 
I should be over there with my men , he replied . 
I do not know what may have happened to them . 
I want you to be happy , she said quite simply but I should be very lonely if you went away and left me here . 
He put his hand on her shoulder . 
I would not do that , little girl , he said gently . 
If you cannot go with me , I shall not go . 
If either of us must go alone , it will be you . 
Her face lighted to a wondrous smile . 
Then we shall not be separated , she said , for I shall never leave you as long as we both live . 
He looked down into her face for a moment and then Who was An Tak ? he asked . 
My brother , she replied . 
Why ? And then , even less than before , could he tell her . 
It was then that he did something he had never done before he put his arms about her and stooping , kissed her forehead . 
Until you find An Tak , he said , I will be your brother . 
I already have a brother , she said , and I do not want another . 
Chapter Days became weeks , and weeks became months , and the months followed one another in a lazy procession of hot , humid days and warm , humid nights . 
The fugitives saw never a Wieroo by day though often at night they heard the melancholy flapping of giant wings far above them . 
Each day was much like its predecessor . 
Bradley splashed about for a few minutes in the cold pool early each morning and after a time the girl tried it and liked it . 
And then while she prepared breakfast , the man shaved this he never neglected . 
At first it was a source of wonderment to the girl , for the Galu men are beardless . 
He still sought new plans for escape , but with ever lessening enthusiasm , since each new scheme presented some insurmountable obstacle . 
And then one day as a bolt out of a clear sky came that which blasted the peace and security of their sanctuary forever . 
Bradley was just emerging from the water after his morning plunge when from overhead came the sound of flapping wings . 
Glancing quickly up the man saw a white robed Wieroo circling slowly above him . 
That he had been discovered he could not doubt since the creature even dropped to a lower altitude as though to assure itself that what it saw was a man . 
Then it rose rapidly and winged away toward the city . 
Together they went to the edge of the wood and looked up to see five red robed creatures dropping slowly in ever lessening spirals toward their little amphitheater . 
Following a plan already discussed Bradley and the girl retreated slowly into the woods . 
The Wieroos advanced , calling upon them to give themselves up but the quarry made no reply . 
They had opened into semicircular formation now with the evident intention of cutting the two off from returning into the wood . 
Each Wieroo advanced with his curved blade ready in his hand , each hideous face blank and expressionless . 
At each shot a Wieroo dropped and then the remaining two sought escape by flight , screaming and wailing after the manner of their kind . 
As you have seen , he cried , I can kill you when I wish and at a distance . 
Your only hope of life lies in obedience . 
Quick , or I kill ! The Wieroos stopped and faced him . 
What do you want of us ? asked one . 
Throw aside your weapons , Bradley commanded . 
After a moment's hesitation they obeyed . 
Now approach ! A great plan the only plan had suddenly come to him like an inspiration . 
The Wieroos came closer and halted at his command . 
Bradley turned to the girl . 
There is rope in the shelter , he said . 
The creatures gave evidence of great fear , but they dared not attempt to prevent the act . 
In the open he halted them . 
The girl will get upon the back of the one in front , announced the Englishman . 
I will mount the other . 
She carries a sharp blade , and I carry this weapon that you know kills easily at a distance . 
If you disobey in the slightest , the instructions that I am about to give you , you shall both die . 
That we must die with you , will not deter us . 
If you obey , I promise to set you free without harming you . 
You will carry us due west , depositing us upon the shore of the mainland that is all . 
It is the price of your lives . 
Do you agree ? Sullenly the Wieroos acquiesced . 
Bradley examined the knots that held the rope to their ankles , and feeling them secure directed the girl to mount the back of the leading Wieroo , himself upon the other . 
Then he gave the signal for the two to rise together . 
Nearer and nearer loomed the mainland a broad , parklike expanse stretching inland to the foot of a low plateau spread out before them . 
The roars and screams and growls of giant carnivora came faintly to their ears . 
Ah , this was Caspak . 
When the creatures had gone , the girl turned toward Bradley . 
Why did you have them bring us here ? she asked . 
Now we are far from my country . 
There were two reasons , replied Bradley . 
You told me that there are two Wieroo cities at the eastern end of the island . 
To have passed near either of them might have been to have brought about our heads hundreds of the creatures from whom we could not possibly have escaped . 
Again , my friends must be near this spot it cannot be over two marches to the fort of which I have told you . 
It is my duty to return to them . 
If they still live we shall find a way to return you to your people . 
And you ? asked the girl . 
I escaped from Oo oh , replied Bradley . 
I have accomplished the impossible once , and so I shall accomplish it again I shall escape from Caspak . 
He was not looking at her face as he answered her , and so he did not see the shadow of sorrow that crossed her countenance . 
When he raised his eyes again , she was smiling . 
What you wish , I wish , said the girl . 
It was late in the afternoon when the girl suddenly seized Bradley's arm and pointed straight ahead along the shore . 
What is that ? she whispered . 
What strange reptile is it ? Bradley looked in the direction her slim forefinger indicated . 
He rubbed his eyes and looked again , and then he seized her wrist and drew her quickly behind a clump of bushes . 
What is it ? she asked . 
It is the most frightful reptile that the waters of the world have ever known , he replied . 
It is a German U boat ! An expression of amazement and understanding lighted her features . 
It is the thing of which you told me , she exclaimed , the thing that swims under the water and carries men in its belly ! It is , replied Bradley . 
Then why do you hide from it ? asked the girl . 
You said that now it belonged to your friends . 
Many months have passed since I knew what was going on among my friends , he replied . 
I cannot know what has befallen them . 
They should have been gone from here in this vessel long since , and so I cannot understand why it is still here . 
I am going to investigate first before I show myself . 
As close as possible to the vessel they halted , crouching low among the dense vegetation , and watched the boat for signs of human life about it . 
The hatches were closed no one could be seen or heard . 
For five minutes Bradley watched , and then he determined to board the submarine and investigate . 
The voice did not come from the direction of the U boat but from inland . 
Creeping forward Bradley reached a spot where , through the creepers hanging from the trees , he could see a party of men coming down toward the shore . 
He saw Baron Friedrich von Schoenvorts and six of his men all armed while marching in a little knot among them were Olson , Brady , Sinclair , Wilson , and Whitely . 
Von Schoenvorts walked in the rear of the column , encouraging Schwartz and laughing at the discomfiture of the Britishers . 
Dietz , Heinz , and Klatz also seemed to enjoy the entertainment immensely but two of the men Plesser and Hindle marched with eyes straight to the front and with scowling faces . 
Then he drew the girl close to him . 
Stay here , he whispered . 
I am going out to fight those beasts but I shall be killed . 
Do not let them see you . 
Do not let them take you alive . 
They are more cruel , more cowardly , more bestial than the Wieroos . 
The girl pressed close to him , her face very white . 
Go , if that is right , she whispered but if you die , I shall die , for I cannot live without you . 
He looked sharply into her eyes . 
What an idiot I have been ! Nor could I live without you , little girl . 
And he drew her very close and kissed her lips . 
He disengaged himself from her arms and looked again in time to see that the rear of the column had just passed him . 
Then he rose and leaped quickly and silently from the jungle . 
Suddenly von Schoenvorts felt an arm thrown about his neck and his pistol jerked from its holster . 
Drop those guns ! came in short , sharp syllables and perfect German from the lips of the newcomer . 
Drop them or I'll put a bullet through the back of von Schoenvorts' head . 
The Germans hesitated for a moment , looking first toward von Schoenvorts and then to Schwartz , who was evidently second in command , for orders . 
It's the English pig , Bradley , shouted the latter , and he's alone go and get him ! Go yourself , growled Plesser . 
Hindle moved close to the side of Plesser and whispered something to him . 
Suddenly von Schoenvorts wheeled about and seized Bradley's pistol arm with both hands , Now ! he shouted . 
Come and take him , quick ! Schwartz and three others leaped forward but Plesser and Hindle held back , looking questioningly toward the English prisoners . 
Now is your chance , Englander , he called in low tones . 
Seize Hindle and me and take our guns from us we will not fight hard . 
Olson and Brady were not long in acting upon the suggestion . 
In another moment the two Germans were unarmed and Olson and Brady were running to the support of Bradley but already it seemed too late . 
Von Schoenvorts had managed to drag the Englishman around so that his back was toward Schwartz and the other advancing Germans . 
Schwartz was almost upon Bradley with gun clubbed and ready to smash down upon the Englishman's skull . 
Brady and Olson were charging the Germans in the rear with Wilson , Whitely , and Sinclair supporting them with bare fists . 
Bradley had now succeeded in wrestling his arm free from von Schoenvorts' grip and in dropping the latter with a blow from the butt of his pistol . 
The rest of the English and Germans were engaged in a hand to hand encounter . 
Plesser and Hindle standing aside from the melee and urging their comrades to surrender and join with the English against the tyranny of von Schoenvorts . 
There was no feinting , no retiring and no parrying that was not also an attack . 
Bayonet fighting today is not a pretty thing to see it is not an artistic fencing match in which men give and take it is slaughter inevitable and quickly over . 
Dietz lunged once madly at Olson's throat . 
A short point , with just a twist of the bayonet to the left sent the sharp blade over the Englishman's left shoulder . 
So quickly was the thing done and so quick the withdrawal that Olson had wheeled to take on another adversary before the German's corpse had toppled to the ground . 
But there were no more adversaries to take on . 
Heinz and Klatz had thrown down their rifles and with hands above their heads were crying Kamerad ! Kamerad ! at the tops of their voices . 
Von Schoenvorts still lay where he had fallen . 
Plesser and Hindle were explaining to Bradley that they were glad of the outcome of the fight , as they could no longer endure the brutality of the U boat commander . 
The remainder of the men were looking at the girl who now advanced slowly , her bow ready , when Bradley turned toward her and held out his hand . 
Co Tan , he said , unstring your bow these are my friends , and yours . 
And to the Englishmen This is Co Tan . 
You who saw her save me from Schwartz know a part of what I owe her . 
A moment later the attention of each was called to Plesser by a volley of invective . 
They turned in time to see the man running toward von Schoenvorts who was just rising from the ground . 
Plesser carried a rifle with bayonet fixed , that he had snatched from the side of Dietz's corpse . 
Von Schoenvorts' face was livid with fear , his jaws working as though he would call for help but no sound came from his blue lips . 
You struck me , shrieked Plesser . 
Once , twice , three times , you struck me , pig . 
You murdered Schwerke you drove him insane by your cruelty until he took his own life . 
You are only one of your kind they are all like you from the Kaiser down . 
I wish that you were the Kaiser . 
Thus would I do ! And he lunged his bayonet through von Schoenvorts' chest . 
Then he let his rifle fall with the dying man and wheeled toward Bradley . 
Here I am , he said . 
Do with me as you like . 
Only lately have I come to know what a fool I have been . 
But now I am no longer a fool , and besides , I am avenged and Schwerke is avenged , so you can kill me if you wish . 
You will not be punished , said Bradley . 
There are four of you left if you four want to come along and work with us , we will take you but you will come as prisoners . 
It suits me , said Plesser . 
Now that the captain lieutenant is dead you need not fear us . 
All our lives we have known nothing but to obey his class . 
If I had not killed him , I suppose I would be fool enough to obey him again but he is dead . 
Now we will obey you we must obey some one . 
And you ? Bradley turned to the other survivors of the original crew of the U . 
The two dead Germans were buried in a single grave , and then the party boarded the submarine and stowed away the oil . 
Here Bradley told the men what had befallen him since the night of September th when he had disappeared so mysteriously from the camp upon the plateau . 
Now he learned for the first time that Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
, and Miss La Rue had been missing even longer than he and that no faintest trace of them had been discovered . 
Now , announced Bradley , we'll plan for the future . 
The boat has fuel , provisions and water for a month , I believe you said , Plesser there are ten of us to man it . 
We have a last sad duty here we must search for Miss La Rue and Mr. Tyler . 
None dissented from this conviction , nor was there a voice raised in protest against the plan to at least make assurance doubly sure before quitting Caspak forever . 
And so they started , cruising slowly up the coast and firing an occasional shot from the gun . 
Often the vessel was brought to a stop , and always there were anxious eyes scanning the shore for an answering signal . 
The second day was practically a repetition of the first . 
They moved very slowly with frequent stops and once they landed in the Kro lu country to hunt . 
Here they were attacked by the bow and arrow men , whom they could not persuade to palaver with them . 
So belligerent were the natives that it became necessary to fire into them in order to escape their persistent and ferocious attentions . 
Co Tan and Bradley were on deck alone , and as the new shoreline appeared beyond the point , the girl gave an exclamation of joy and seized the man's hand in hers . 
Oh , look ! she cried . 
The Galu country ! The Galu country ! It is my country that I never thought to see again . 
You are glad to come again , Co Tan ? asked Bradley . 
Oh , so glad ! she cried . 
You will come ? Bradley shook his head . 
I cannot , little Co Tan , he answered . 
My country needs me , and I must go back . 
Maybe someday I shall return . 
You will not forget me , Co Tan ? She looked at him in wide eyed wonder . 
You are going away from me ? she asked in a very small voice . 
You are going away from Co Tan ? Bradley looked down upon the little bowed head . 
He bent low and raised the tear stained face to his own . 
No , Co Tan , he said , I am not going away from you for you are going with me . 
You are going back to my own country to be my wife . 
Tell me that you will , Co Tan . 
And he bent still lower yet from his height and kissed her lips . 
The engines were reversed and the boat brought to a stop while all hands gathered on deck to watch the little party coming toward them across the meadow . 
They are Galus , cried Co Tan they are my own people . 
Let me speak to them lest they think we come to fight them . 
Put me ashore , my man , and I will go meet them . 
The nose of the U boat was run close in to the steep bank but when Co Tan would have run forward alone , Bradley seized her hand and held her back . 
I will go with you , Co Tan , he said and together they advanced to meet the oncoming party . 
There were about twenty warriors moving forward in a thin line , as our infantry advance as skirmishers . 
Galu warriors always advance into battle thus , she said . 
Stand still now , she cautioned , and fold your arms . 
They will not harm us then . 
Bradley did as he was bid , and the two stood with arms folded as the line of warriors approached . 
When they had come within some fifty yards , they halted and one spoke . 
Who are you and from whence do you come ? he asked and then Co Tan gave a little , glad cry and sprang forward with out stretched arms . 
Oh , Tan ! she exclaimed . 
He moved quickly to the girl's side and grasped her wrist . 
Who is this man ? he demanded in cold tones . 
Co Tan turned a surprised face toward the Englishman and then of a sudden broke forth into a merry peal of laughter . 
This is my father , Brad lee , she cried . 
And who is Brad lee ? demanded the warrior . 
He is my man , replied Co Tan simply . 
By what right ? insisted Tan . 
You are satisfied with him ? asked Tan . 
Yes , replied the girl proudly . 
Once at the bottom , the animal came charging across the meadowland at a rapid run . 
When the girl espied the latter , she slid from the horse and ran toward her , fairly screaming for joy . 
The man dismounted and stood beside Tan . 
Like Bradley he was garbed after the fashion of the surrounding warriors but there was a subtle difference between him and his companion . 
Possibly he detected a similar difference in Bradley , for his first question was , From what country ? and though he spoke in Galu Bradley thought he detected an accent . 
A broad smile lighted the newcomer's face as he held out his hand . 
I am Tom Billings of Santa Monica , California , he said . 
I know all about you , and I'm mighty glad to find you alive . 
How did you get here ? asked Bradley . 
I thought ours was the only party of men from the outer world ever to enter Caprona . 
It was , until we came in search of Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
We found him and sent him home with his bride but I was kept a prisoner here . 
Bradley's face darkened then they were not among friends after all . 
There are ten of us down there on a German sub with small arms and a gun , he said quickly in English . 
It will be no trick to get away from these people . 
You don't know my jailer , replied Billings , or you'd not be so sure . 
Wait , I'll introduce you . 
And then turning to the girl who had accompanied him he called her by name . 
Ajor , he said , permit me to introduce Lieutenant Bradley Lieutenant , Mrs. Billings my jailer ! The Englishman laughed as he shook hands with the girl . 
You are not as good a soldier as I , he said to Billings . 
Instead of being taken prisoner myself I have taken one Mrs. Bradley , this is Mr. Billings . 
Ajor , quick to understand , turned toward Co Tan . 
You are going back with him to his country ? she asked . 
You dare ? asked Ajor . 
But your father will not permit it Jor , my father , High Chief of the Galus , will not permit it , for like me you are cos ata lo . 
Say the word and you may both go with us . 
Billings heard and speaking in English , asked Ajor if she would go . 
Bradley noticed that she spoke in English broken English like Co Tan's but equally appealing . 
We can easily get you aboard the ship , he said , on some pretext or other , and then we can steam away . 
They can neither harm nor detain us , nor will we have to fire a shot at them . 
And so it was done , Bradley and Co Tan taking Ajor and Billings aboard to show them the vessel , which almost immediately raised anchor and moved slowly out into the sea . 
I hate to do it , said Billings . 
They have been fine to me . 
Jor and Tan are splendid men and they will think me an ingrate but I can't waste my life here when there is so much to be done in the outer world . 
Down the coast they steamed toward the beach where Billings had made his crossing in the hydro aeroplane and just at dusk the lookout announced a light dead ahead . 
Tyler and the rescue party had but just reached the yacht that afternoon . 
