The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Chapter XXVII Civil Wars , Reign Of Theodosius . 
Part I. Death Of Gratian . 
First Civil War , Against Maximus . 
Character , Administration , And Penance Of Theodosius . 
Second Civil War , Against Eugenius . 
The fame of Gratian , before he had accomplished the twentieth year of his age , was equal to that of the most celebrated princes . 
A more attentive view of the life of Gratian may perhaps suggest the true cause of the disappointment of the public hopes . 
His apparent virtues , instead of being the hardy productions of experience and adversity , were the premature and artificial fruits of a royal education . 
The knowledge which they painfully communicated was displayed with ostentation , and celebrated with lavish praise . 
His soft and tractable disposition received the fair impression of their judicious precepts , and the absence of passion might easily be mistaken for the strength of reason . 
But , after Gratian more freely indulged his prevailing taste for hunting and shooting , he naturally connected himself with the most dexterous ministers of his favorite amusement . 
The unworthy spectacle of a Roman prince , who had renounced the dress and manners of his country , filled the minds of the legions with grief and indignation . 
It is not very important to inquire from what cause the revolt of Britain was produced . 
The discontent of Maximus might incline him to censure the conduct of his sovereign , and to encourage , perhaps , without any views of ambition , the murmurs of the troops . 
Valentinian was less attentive to the religion of his son since he intrusted the education of Gratian to Ausonius , a professed Pagan . 
which has survived more worthy productions . 
Disputare de principali judicio non oportet . 
Sacrilegii enim instar est dubitare , an is dignus sit , quem elegerit imperator . 
This convenient law was revived and promulgated , after the death of Gratian , by the feeble court of Milan . 
ascribes to the archbishop the merit of Gratian's intolerant laws . 
Qui divinae legis sanctitatem nesciendo omittunt , aut negligende violant , et offendunt , sacrilegium committunt . 
Theodosius indeed may claim his share in the merit of this comprehensive law . 
and the younger Victor acknowledge the virtues of Gratian and accuse , or rather lament , his degenerate taste . 
had guarded with some similar reserve , the comparison of Nero . 
Britannia fertilis provincia tyrannorum , is a memorable expression , used by Jerom in the Pelagian controversy , and variously tortured in the disputes of our national antiquaries . 
The revolutions of the last age appeared to justify the image of the sublime Bossuet , sette ile , plus orageuse que les mers qui l'environment . 
Zosimus says of the British soldiers . 
Helena , the daughter of Eudda . 
Her chapel may still be seen at Caer segont , now Caer narvon . 
The prudent reader may not perhaps be satisfied with such Welsh evidence . 
appoints him governor at Britain and the father of our antiquities is followed , as usual , by his blind progeny . 
Pacatus and Zosimus had taken some pains to prevent this error , or fable and I shall protect myself by their decisive testimonies . 
It is singular enough , that Maximus should be less favorably treated by Zosimus , the partial adversary of his rival . 
But his feeble efforts announced his degenerate spirit and desperate situation and deprived him of the resources , which he still might have found , in the support of his subjects and allies . 
The troops , whose station more immediately attached them to the service of the palace , abandoned the standard of Gratian the first time that it was displayed in the neighborhood of Paris . 
That resolute officer executed , without remorse , the orders or the intention of the usurper . 
Gratian , as he rose from supper , was delivered into the hands of the assassin and his body was denied to the pious and pressing entreaties of his brother Valentinian . 
has diligently collected the legends of the island , and the continent . 
The whole emigration consisted of , soldiers , and , plebeians , who settled in Bretagne . 
Their destined brides , St . 
Ursula with , noble , and , plebeian , virgins , mistook their way landed at Cologne , and were all most cruelly murdered by the Huns . 
But the plebeian sisters have been defrauded of their equal honors and what is still harder , John Trithemius presumes to mention the children of these British virgins . 
celebrates his fidelity while his treachery is marked in Prosper's Chronicle , as the cause of the ruin of Gratian . 
Note Le Beau contests the reading in the chronicle of Prosper upon which this charge rests . 
Macedonius also , master of the offices , suffered the death which he merited . 
M. He protested , nullum ex adversariis nisi in acissie occubu . 
The orator Theodosius bestows reluctant , and therefore weighty , praise on his clemency . 
But he proceeded , in a firm and equal tone , to offer Theodosius the alternative of peace , or war . 
The imperious voice of honor and gratitude called aloud for revenge . 
These weighty considerations engaged Theodosius to dissemble his resentment , and to accept the alliance of the tyrant . 
But he stipulated , that Maximus should content himself with the possession of the countries beyond the Alps . 
We may disclaim his odious suspicions but we cannot reject the treaty of peace which the friends of Theodosius have absolutely forgotten , or slightly mentioned . 
The contempt of Gratian for the Roman soldiers had exposed him to the fatal effects of their resentment . 
Among the benefactors of the church , the fame of Constantine has been rivalled by the glory of Theodosius . 
Theodosius was the first of the emperors baptized in the true faith of the Trinity . 
that all the nations , which are governed by our clemency and moderation , should steadfastly adhere to the religion which was taught by St . 
Peter to the Romans which faithful tradition has preserved and which is now professed by the pontiff Damasus , and by Peter , bishop of Alexandria , a man of apostolic holiness . 
Besides the condemnation of divine justice , they must expect to suffer the severe penalties , which our authority , guided by heavenly wisdom , shall think proper to inflict upon them . 
Once indeed he expressed a faint inclination to converse with the eloquent and learned Eunomius , who lived in retirement at a small distance from Constantinople . 
Provoked by this insolent behavior , the monarch gave orders , that the rustic priest should be instantly driven from his presence . 
Theodosius immediately embraced the bishop of Iconium , and never forgot the important lesson , which he had received from this dramatic parable . 
and afterwards celebrates his speed and diligence in running to Constantinople , Italy , c . 
a virtue which does not appertain either to a wall , or a bishop . 
, with Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
Such an edict deserved the warmest praises of Baronius , auream sanctionem , edictum pium et salutare . 
with the terms of rustic bishop , obscure city . 
Yet I must take leave to think , that both Amphilochius and Iconium were objects of inconsiderable magnitude in the Roman empire . 
Chapter XXVII Civil Wars , Reign Of Theodosius . 
The archiepiscopal throne of Macedonius , which had been polluted with so much Christian blood , was successively filled by Eudoxus and Damophilus . 
This city , says he , is full of mechanics and slaves , who are all of them profound theologians and preach in the shops , and in the streets . 
Two natives of Cappadocia , Basil , and Gregory Nazianzen , were distinguished above all their contemporaries , by the rare union of profane eloquence and of orthodox piety . 
Gregory submitted with reluctance to this humiliating exile he was ordained bishop of Sasima but he solemnly protests , that he never consummated his spiritual marriage with this disgusting bride . 
He afterwards consented to undertake the government of his native church of Nazianzus , of which his father had been bishop above five and forty years . 
From the cathedral of St . 
After he was delivered from the fear and danger of a foreign enemy , his infant church was disgraced and distracted by intestine faction . 
These mortifications might sometimes tempt the Cappadocian missionary to regret his obscure solitude . 
The account of forty years must be dated from the election or intrusion of Eusebius , who wisely exchanged the bishopric of Nicomedia for the throne of Constantinople . 
See Jortin's Remarks on Ecclesiastical History , vol . 
See the thirty second Oration of Gregory Nazianzen , and the account of his own life , which he has composed in iambics . 
Yet every physician is prone to exaggerate the inveterate nature of the disease which he has cured . 
Unless Gregory Nazianzen mistook thirty years in his own age , he was born , as well as his friend Basil , about the year . 
which burst from the heart , and speak the pangs of injured and lost friendship . 
In the Midsummer Night's Dream , Helena addresses the same pathetic complaint to her friend Hermia Is all the counsel that we two have shared . 
The sister's vows , c . 
It appears to have been situate on the edge of Isauria . 
is interpreted to mean the Virgin Mary . 
diligently collects , enlarges , and explains , the oratorical and poetical hints of Gregory himself . 
I touch slightly on these obscure and personal squabbles . 
describes his own success with some human complacency . 
Yet it should seem , from his familiar conversation with his auditor St . 
that the preacher understood the true value of popular applause . 
Lachrymae auditorum laudes tuae sint , is the lively and judicious advice of St . 
The Catholics of Constantinople were animated with joyful confidence by the baptism and edict of Theodosius and they impatiently waited the effects of his gracious promise . 
Sophia , and all the churches of Constantinople . 
Sophia was occupied by a large body of the Imperial guards . 
relate the evangelical words and actions of Damophilus without a word of approbation . 
He considered , says Socrates , that it is difficult to resist the powerful , but it was easy , and would have been profitable , to submit . 
See Gregory Nazianzen , tom . 
de Vita sua , p . 
For the sake of posterity , the bishop of Constantinople records a stupendous prodigy . 
In the month of November , it was a cloudy morning , but the sun broke forth when the procession entered the church . 
judiciously removes from the reign of Gratian to that of Theodosius . 
I do not reckon Philostorgius , though he mentions the explosion of Damophilus . 
The Eunomian historian has been carefully strained through an orthodox sieve . 
The conflict and fermentation of so many opposite interests and tempers inflamed the passions of the bishops and their ruling passions were , the love of gold , and the love of dispute . 
When the emperor suspended his prevailing influence , the turbulent synod was blindly impelled by the absurd or selfish motives of pride , hatred , or resentment . 
The faith and virtues of Paulinus were unblemished . 
of the theological sermons which Gregory Nazianzen pronounced at Constantinople against the Arians , Eunomians , Macedonians , c . 
He tells the Macedonians , who deified the Father and the Son without the Holy Ghost , that they might as well be styled Tritheists as Ditheists . 
Gregory himself was almost a Tritheist and his monarchy of heaven resembles a well regulated aristocracy . 
Consult Gregory Nazianzen , de Vita sua , tom . 
Such passages are faintly marked by Tillemont , and fairly produced by Le Clerc . 
A suspicion may possibly arise , that so unfavorable a picture of ecclesiastical synods has been drawn by the partial hand of some obstinate heretic , or some malicious infidel . 
But the name of the sincere historian who has conveyed this instructive lesson to the knowledge of posterity , must silence the impotent murmurs of superstition and bigotry . 
The harsh and ungenerous treatment which he experienced , instead of derogating from the truth of his evidence , affords an additional proof of the spirit which actuated the deliberations of the synod . 
Their unanimous suffrage had confirmed the pretensions which the bishop of Constantinople derived from the choice of the people , and the approbation of the emperor . 
But Gregory soon became the victim of malice and envy . 
His resignation was accepted by the synod , and by the emperor , with more readiness than he seems to have expected . 
de Vita sua , p . 
The fourteenth , twenty seventh , and thirty second Orations were pronounced in the several stages of this business . 
in which he takes a solemn leave of men and angels , the city and the emperor , the East and the West , c . 
, is pathetic , and almost sublime . 
From his retirement , he exhorts Nectarius to prosecute the heretics of Constantinople . 
It was not enough that Theodosius had suppressed the insolent reign of Arianism , or that he had abundantly revenged the injuries which the Catholics sustained from the zeal of Constantius and Valens . 
The decrees of the council of Constantinople had ascertained the true standard of the faith and the ecclesiastics , who governed the conscience of Theodosius , suggested the most effectual methods of persecution . 
The penal statutes were directed against the ministers , the assemblies , and the persons of the heretics and the passions of the legislator were expressed in the language of declamation and invective . 
It was supposed , that the error of the heretics could proceed only from the obstinate temper of their minds and that such a temper was a fit object of censure and punishment . 
Every Roman might exercise the right of public accusation but the office of Inquisitors of the Faith , a name so deservedly abhorred , was first instituted under the reign of Theodosius . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
, with Godefroy's commentary on each law , and his general summary , or Paratitlon , tom vi . 
The first of these was Priscillian himself , bishop of Avila , in Spain who adorned the advantages of birth and fortune , by the accomplishments of eloquence and learning . 
They absolutely condemned the use of the marriage bed and the peace of families was often disturbed by indiscreet separations . 
They enjoyed , or recommended , a total abstinence from all anima food and their continual prayers , fasts , and vigils , inculcated a rule of strict and perfect devotion . 
The humanity of Ambrose and Martin was confirmed by the scandalous irregularity of the proceedings against Priscillian and his adherents . 
The civil and ecclesiastical ministers had transgressed the limits of their respective provinces . 
The secular judge had presumed to receive an appeal , and to pronounce a definitive sentence , in a matter of faith , and episcopal jurisdiction . 
The bishops had disgraced themselves , by exercising the functions of accusers in a criminal prosecution . 
Since the death of Priscillian , the rude attempts of persecution have been refined and methodized in the holy office , which assigns their distinct parts to the ecclesiastical and secular powers . 
a correct and original writer . 
has labored this article with pure learning , good sense , and moderation . 
speaks with temper of Priscillian and Latronian . 
and is therefore much less likely to produce the author of a new heresy . 
Such was the idea of a humane , though ignorant , polytheist . 
One of them was sent in Sillinam insulam quae ultra Britannianest . 
The scandalous calumnies of Augustin , Pope Leo , c . 
, which Tillemont swallows like a child , and Lardner refutes like a man , may suggest some candid suspicions in favor of the older Gnostics . 
In the Sacred History , and the Life of St . 
Martin was reproved , however , by his own conscience , and by an angel nor could he afterwards perform miracles with so much ease . 
reprobate , with equal indignation , the character and conduct of Ithacius . 
Chapter XXVII Civil Wars , Reign Of Theodosius . 
Gratian loved and revered him as a father and the elaborate treatise on the faith of the Trinity was designed for the instruction of the young prince . 
Ambrose had devoted his life , and his abilities , to the service of the church . 
Wealth was the object of his contempt he had renounced his private patrimony and he sold , without hesitation , the consecrated plate , for the redemption of captives . 
The clergy and people of Milan were attached to their archbishop and he deserved the esteem , without soliciting the favor , or apprehending the displeasure , of his feeble sovereigns . 
Martin , and the Dialogues concerning his miracles contain facts adapted to the grossest barbarism , in a style not unworthy of the Augustan age . 
So natural is the alliance between good taste and good sense , that I am always astonished by this contrast . 
The short and superficial Life of St . 
has the merit of original evidence . 
have labored with their usual diligence . 
gives the emperor a very spirited account of his own embassy . 
But the conduct of Ambrose was governed by very different principles . 
As she desired to perform her public devotions on the approaching festival of Easter , Ambrose was ordered to appear before the council . 
The officers of the household were directed to prepare , first , the Portian , and afterwards , the new , Basilica , for the immediate reception of the emperor and his mother . 
The splendid canopy and hangings of the royal seat were arranged in the customary manner but it was found necessary to defend them . 
by a strong guard , from the insults of the populace . 
is one of the curious monuments of ecclesiastical antiquity . 
It contains two letters to his sister Marcellina , with a petition to Valentinian and the sermon de Basilicis non madendis . 
But while he labored to restrain the effects of their zeal , the pathetic vehemence of his sermons continually inflamed the angry and seditious temper of the people of Milan . 
The measures of the court served only to expose the magnitude of the evil . 
He was again solicited to restore peace to his country , by timely compliance with the will of his sovereign . 
The reply of Ambrose was couched in the most humble and respectful terms , which might , however , be interpreted as a serious declaration of civil war . 
His life and fortune were in the hands of the emperor but he would never betray the church of Christ , or degrade the dignity of the episcopal character . 
Retz had a similar message from the queen , to request that he would appease the tumult of Paris . 
It was no longer in his power , c . 
A quoi j'ajoutai tout ce que vous pouvez vous imaginer de respect de douleur , de regret , et de soumission , c . 
Certainly I do not compare either the causes or the men yet the coadjutor himself had some idea of imitating St . 
Ambrose The laws of the empire , some of which were inscribed with the name of Valentinian , still condemned the Arian heresy , and seemed to excuse the resistance of the Catholics . 
But the authority of the saints , who have preached and practised the maxims of passive loyalty , appeared to Ambrose of less moment than the extreme and pressing danger of the church . 
He boldly refused to obey and his refusal was supported by the unanimous consent of his faithful people . 
Immediately under the pavement of the church two perfect skeletons were found , with the heads separated from their bodies , and a plentiful effusion of blood . 
The holy relics were presented , in solemn pomp , to the veneration of the people and every circumstance of this fortunate discovery was admirably adapted to promote the designs of Ambrose . 
Their effect , however , on the minds of the people , was rapid and irresistible and the feeble sovereign of Italy found himself unable to contend with the favorite of Heaven . 
throws this luminous fact into a dark and perplexed narrative . 
Excubabat pia plebs in ecclesia , mori parata cum episcopo suo . 
Nos , adhuc frigidi , excitabamur tamen civitate attonita atque curbata . 
Many churches in Italy , Gaul , c . 
, were dedicated to these unknown martyrs , of whom St . 
Gervaise seems to have been more fortunate than his companion . 
Invenimus mirae magnitudinis viros duos , ut prisca aetas ferebat , tom . 
Grandiaque effossis mirabitur ossa sepulchris . 
to the service of the church . 
I should recommend this miracle to our divines , if it did not prove the worship of relics , as well as the Nicene creed . 
He partially allow the mediation of Theodosius , and capriciously rejects that of Maximus , though it is attested by Prosper , Sozomen , and Theodoret . 
The conquest of Italy was the object of his hopes and preparations and he secretly meditated the ruin of an innocent youth , whose government was abhorred and despised by his Catholic subjects . 
The march of the auxiliaries was guided by the ambassador and they were admitted , without distrust , into the fortresses of the Alps . 
after his return from his second embassy . 
applies to this season of public distress some of the penitential sermons of the archbishop . 
The persecution of the Imperial family , to which Theodosius himself had been indebted for his fortune , was now aggravated by recent and repeated injuries . 
The skilful disposition of the forces of the East seemed to multiply their numbers , and distracted the attention of Maximus . 
and consequently to refute ces contes de Zosime , qui seroient trop contraires a la piete de Theodose . 
M. Chapter XXVII Civil Wars , Reign Of Theodosius . 
The veterans , who still remembered the long resistance , and successive resources , of the tyrant Magnentius , might prepare themselves for the labors of three bloody campaigns . 
Marcellinus , the tyrant's brother , advanced to support them with the select cohorts , which were considered as the hope and strength of the army . 
See Godefroy's Chronology of the Laws , Cod . 
supply the loose and scanty materials of this civil war . 
darkly alludes to the well known events of a magazine surprised , an action at Petovio , a Sicilian , perhaps a naval , victory , c . 
applauds the peculiar merit and good fortune of Aquileia . 
The wisdom of his laws , and the success of his arms , rendered his administration respectable in the eyes both of his subjects and of his enemies . 
He loved and practised the virtues of domestic life , which seldom hold their residence in the palaces of kings . 
Theodosius was chaste and temperate he enjoyed , without excess , the sensual and social pleasures of the table and the warmth of his amorous passions was never diverted from their lawful objects . 
History , which enlarged his experience , was his favorite study . 
The Moorish guards of the tyrant had been massacred in the first heat of the victory , and a small number of the most obnoxious criminals suffered the punishment of the law . 
But the emperor showed himself much more attentive to relieve the innocent than to chastise the guilty . 
He was afterwards proconsul of Africa and his friend Ausonius praises him as a poet second only to Virgil . 
See the fair portrait of Theodosius , by the younger Victor the strokes are distinct , and the colors are mixed . 
The praise of Pacatus is too vague and Claudian always seems afraid of exalting the father above the son . 
Pacatus , from the want of skill or of courage , omits this glorious circumstance . 
Yet the piercing eye of the founder of the republic must have discerned two essential imperfections , which might , perhaps , have abated his recent love of despostism . 
The virtuous mind of Theodosius was often relaxed by indolence , and it was sometimes inflamed by passion . 
It was the constant study of his life to suppress , or regulate , the intemperate sallies of passion and the success of his efforts enhanced the merit of his clemency . 
Within the space of three years , the inconsistent historian of Theodosius must relate the generous pardon of the citizens of Antioch , and the inhuman massacre of the people of Thessalonica . 
His partial evidence is marked by an air of candor and truth . 
He observes these vicissitudes of sloth and activity , not as a vice , but as a singularity in the character of Theodosius . 
exhorts his son to moderate his anger . 
The lively impatience of the inhabitants of Antioch was never satisfied with their own situation , or with the character and conduct of their successive sovereigns . 
The tumult was almost immediately suppressed by the arrival of a body of archers and Antioch had leisure to reflect on the nature and consequences of her crime . 
At length , twenty four days after the sedition , the general Hellebicus and Caesarius , master of the offices , declared the will of the emperor , and the sentence of Antioch . 
His commissioners then proceeded to inquire into the guilt of individuals of those who had perpetrated , and of those who had not prevented , the destruction of the sacred statues . 
The tribunal of Hellebicus and Caesarius , encompassed with armed soldiers , was erected in the midst of the Forum . 
The Christians and Pagans agreed in believing that the sedition of Antioch was excited by the daemons . 
paraded the streets with a scourge in her hand . 
transformed himself into a youth , then a boy , c . 
is certainly mistaken in sending Libanius himself to Constantinople . 
His own orations fix him at Antioch . 
The Antiochians were offended , that the dependent city of Seleucia should presume to intercede for them . 
As the days of the tumult depend on the movable festival of Easter , they can only be determined by the previous determination of the year . 
Chrysostom opposes their courage , which was not attended with much risk , to the cowardly flight of the Cynics . 
The sedition of Antioch is represented in a lively , and almost dramatic , manner by two orators , who had their respective shares of interest and merit . 
and the twenty orations of St . 
had read him with pious curiosity and diligence . 
The sedition of Thessalonica is ascribed to a more shameful cause , and was productive of much more dreadful consequences . 
That great city , the metropolis of all the Illyrian provinces , had been protected from the dangers of the Gothic war by strong fortifications and a numerous garrison . 
The punishment of a Roman city was blindly committed to the undistinguishing sword of the Barbarians and the hostile preparations were concerted with the dark and perfidious artifice of an illegal conspiracy . 
The guilt of the emperor is aggravated by his long and frequent residence at Thessalonica . 
is delivered in vague expressions of horror and pity . 
Zosimus alone , the partial enemy of Theodosius , most unaccountably passes over in silence the worst of his actions . 
The respectful attachment of the emperor for the orthodox clergy , had disposed him to love and admire the character of Ambrose who united all the episcopal virtues in the most eminent degree . 
The seditious prelate was condemned , by the magistrate of the province , either to rebuild the synagogue , or to repay the damage and this moderate sentence was confirmed by the emperor . 
But it was not confirmed by the archbishop of Milan . 
He dictated an epistle of censure and reproach , more suitable , perhaps , if the emperor had received the mark of circumcision , and renounced the faith of his baptism . 
The recantation of Theodosius was sincere and , during the term of his residence at Milan , his affection for Ambrose was continually increased by the habits of pious and familiar conversation . 
have justly condemned the archbishop . 
His sermon is a strange allegory of Jeremiah's rod , of an almond tree , of the woman who washed and anointed the feet of Christ . 
But the peroration is direct and personal . 
Hodie , Episcope , de me proposuisti . 
Ambrose modestly confessed it but he sternly reprimanded Timasius , general of the horse and foot , who had presumed to say that the monks of Callinicum deserved punishment . 
Yet , five years afterwards , when Theodosius was absent from his spiritual guide , he tolerated the Jews , and condemned the destruction of their synagogues . 
, with Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
When Ambrose was informed of the massacre of Thessalonica , his mind was filled with horror and anguish . 
He retired into the country to indulge his grief , and to avoid the presence of Theodosius . 
You have imitated David in his crime , imitate then his repentance , was the reply of the undaunted Ambrose . 
The rigorous conditions of peace and pardon were accepted and the public penance of the emperor Theodosius has been recorded as one of the most honorable events in the annals of the church . 
In this spiritual cure , Ambrose employed the various methods of mildness and severity . 
The cause of humanity , and that of persecution , have been asserted , by the same Ambrose , with equal energy , and with equal success . 
His epistle is a miserable rhapsody on a noble subject . 
Ambrose could act better than he could write . 
His compositions are destitute of taste , or genius without the spirit of Tertullian , the copious elegance of Lactantius the lively wit of Jerom , or the grave energy of Augustin . 
According to the discipline of St . 
the voluntary homicide was four years a mourner five a hearer seven in a prostrate state and four in a standing posture . 
of the Canonical Epistles of St . 
must be used with precaution . 
Un prince qui aime la religion , et qui la craint , est un lion qui cede a la main qui le flatte , ou a la voix qui l'appaise . 
Esprit des Loix , l . 
Chapter XXVII Civil Wars , Reign Of Theodosius . 
Part V. After the defeat and death of the tyrant of Gaul , the Roman world was in the possession of Theodosius . 
To the restitution of his ample patrimony , Theodosius added the free and generous gift of the countries beyond the Alps , which his successful valor had recovered from the assassin of Gratian . 
Augustin says , with some happiness of expression , Valentinianum . 
The empress Justina did not long survive her return to Italy and , though she beheld the triumph of Theodosius , she was not allowed to influence the government of her son . 
The pernicious attachment to the Arian sect , which Valentinian had imbibed from her example and instructions , was soon erased by the lessons of a more orthodox education . 
Arbogastes , a gallant soldier of the nation of the Franks , held the second rank in the service of Gratian . 
He secretly invited the archbishop of Milan to undertake the office of a mediator as the pledge of his sincerity , and the guardian of his safety . 
He received Arbogastes on the throne and , as the count approached with some appearance of respect , delivered to him a paper , which dismissed him from all his employments . 
My authority , replied Arbogastes , with insulting coolness , does not depend on the smile or the frown of a monarch and he contemptuously threw the paper on the ground . 
His body was conducted with decent pomp to the sepulchre of Milan and the archbishop pronounced a funeral oration to commemorate his virtues and his misfortunes . 
His chronology is very irregular . 
When the young emperor gave an entertainment , he fasted himself he refused to see a handsome actress , c . 
to reproach him with the love of that amusement . 
praises the enemy of Theodosius . 
has preserved a curious fragment of Sulpicius Alexander , an historian far more valuable than himself . 
has diligently collected all the circumstances of the death of Valentinian II . 
The variations , and the ignorance , of contemporary writers , prove that it was secret . 
He is forced to speak a discreet and obscure language yet he is much bolder than any layman , or perhaps any other ecclesiastic , would have dared to be . 
Dom Chardon , who owns that St . 
Ambrose most strenuously maintains the indispensable necessity of baptism , labors to reconcile the contradiction . 
But some remains of pride and prejudice still opposed the elevation of Arbogastes himself and the judicious Barbarian thought it more advisable to reign under the name of some dependent Roman . 
He bestowed the purple on the rhetorician Eugenius whom he had already raised from the place of his domestic secretary to the rank of master of the offices . 
The accomplishment of the prediction was forwarded by all the means that human prudence could supply . 
The industry of the two master generals , Stilicho and Timasius , was directed to recruit the numbers , and to revive the discipline of the Roman legions . 
The formidable troops of Barbarians marched under the ensigns of their national chieftains . 
mentions this embassy but he is diverted by another story from relating the event . 
that Galla died in childbed and intimates , that the affliction of her husband was extreme but short . 
Lycopolis is the modern Siut , or Osiot , a town of Said , about the size of St . 
Denys , which drives a profitable trade with the kingdom of Senaar , and has a very convenient fountain , cujus potu signa virgini tatis eripiuntur . 
See D'Anville , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
, and the curious Annotations , p . 
, , of his editor Michaelis . 
in Rosweyde's great Collection of the Vitae Patrum . 
mentions the eunuch's journey but he most contemptuously derides the Egyptian dreams , and the oracles of the Nile . 
Gibbon has embodied the picturesque verses of Claudian . 
Nec tantis dissona linguis Turba , nec armorum cultu diversion unquam Zosimus , l . 
dwells with more complacency on his early exploits against the Romans . 
Tot Augustos Hebro qui teste fugavi . 
Yet his vanity could scarcely have proved this plurality of flying emperors . 
Ten thousand of those auxiliaries , and Bacurius , general of the Iberians , died bravely on the field of battle . 
But the victory was not purchased by their blood the Gauls maintained their advantage and the approach of night protected the disorderly flight , or retreat , of the troops of Theodosius . 
In the heat of the battle , a violent tempest , such as is often felt among the Alps , suddenly arose from the East . 
His victory was decisive and the deaths of his two rivals were distinguished only by the difference of their characters . 
Arbogastes , after the loss of a battle , in which he had discharged the duties of a soldier and a general , wandered several days among the mountains . 
Those provinces were involved in the guilt of rebellion while the inflexible courage of Ambrose alone had resisted the claims of successful usurpation . 
contrasts the military plans of the two usurpers . 
Novitas audere priorem Suadebat cautumque dabant exempla sequentem . 
Hic nova moliri praeceps hic quaerere tuta Providus . 
Hic fusis colectis viribus ille . 
Hic vagus excurrens hic intra claustra reductus Dissimiles , sed morte pares . 
Claudian's wit is intolerable the snow was dyed red the cold ver smoked and the channel must have been choked with carcasses the current had not been swelled with blood . 
M. Theodoret affirms , that St . 
Philip , appeared to the waking , or sleeping , emperor , on horseback , c . 
This is the first instance of apostolic chivalry , which afterwards became so popular in Spain , and in the Crusades . 
are alleged by his contemporaries , Augustin and Orosius who suppress the Pagan deity of Aeolus , and add some circumstances from the information of eye witnesses . 
Within four months after the victory , it was compared by Ambrose to the miraculous victories of Moses and Joshua . 
Arbogastes and his emperor had openly espoused the Pagan party , according to Ambrose and Augustin . 
See Le Beau , v . 
is more full , and perhaps somewhat fanciful , on this remarkable reaction in favor of Paganism , but compare p . 
and the Chronicles published by Scaliger . 
After the defeat of Eugenius , the merit , as well as the authority , of Theodosius was cheerfully acknowledged by all the inhabitants of the Roman world . 
But the indulgence of ease and luxury had secretly nourished the principles of disease . 
The strength of Theodosius was unable to support the sudden and violent transition from the palace to the camp and the increasing symptoms of a dropsy announced the speedy dissolution of the emperor . 
But the remains of his strength were exhausted by the painful effort which he made to assist at the spectacles of the morning . 
Honorius supplied , during the rest of the day , the place of his father and the great Theodosius expired in the ensuing night . 
Notwithstanding the recent animosities of a civil war , his death was universally lamented . 
The complaints of contemporary writers , who deplore the increase of luxury , and depravation of manners , are commonly expressive of their peculiar temper and situation . 
The uncertain condition of their property discouraged the subjects of Theodosius from engaging in those useful and laborious undertakings which require an immediate expense , and promise a slow and distant advantage . 
The frequent examples of ruin and desolation tempted them not to spare the remains of a patrimony , which might , every hour , become the prey of the rapacious Goth . 
The heavy weapons of their ancestors , the short sword , and the formidable pilum , which had subdued the world , insensibly dropped from their feeble hands . 
The enervated soldiers abandoned their own and the public defence and their pusillanimous indolence may be considered as the immediate cause of the downfall of the empire . 
Vegetius , de Re Militari , l . 
The series of calamities which he marks , compel us to believe , that the Hero , to whom he dedicates his book , is the last and most inglorious of the Valentinians . 
Chapter XXVIII Destruction Of Paganism . 
Part I. Final Destruction Of Paganism . 
Introduction Of The Worship Of Saints , And Relics , Among The Christians . 
The laws of Moses , and the examples of Jewish history , were hastily , perhaps erroneously , applied , by the clergy , to the mild and universal reign of Christianity . 
parci , nec fratri , et per amatam conjugera gladium vindicem ducit , c . 
justifies , and limits , these intolerant laws by the temporal reign of Jehovah over the Jews . 
From the age of Numa to the reign of Gratian , the Romans preserved the regular succession of the several colleges of the sacerdotal order . 
occasionally consulted the history of future , and , as it should seem , of contingent , events . 
Six Vestals devoted their virginity to the guard of the sacred fire , and of the unknown pledges of the duration of Rome which no mortal had been suffered to behold with impunity . 
Seven Epulos prepared the table of the gods , conducted the solemn procession , and regulated the ceremonies of the annual festival . 
The King of the Sacrifices represented the person of Numa , and of his successors , in the religious functions , which could be performed only by royal hands . 
The confraternities of the Salians , the Lupercals , c . 
, practised such rites as might extort a smile of contempt from every reasonable man , with a lively confidence of recommending themselves to the favor of the immortal gods . 
Paganism was still the constitutional religion of the senate . 
The removal of this ancient monument was the only injury which Constantius had offered to the superstition of the Romans . 
The altar of Victory was again restored by Julian , tolerated by Valentinian , and once more banished from the senate by the zeal of Gratian . 
The last is the work of an English whig , as well as of a Roman antiquary . 
These mystic , and perhaps imaginary , symbols have given birth to various fables and conjectures . 
confesses that the Augurate is the supreme object of his wishes . 
and the chain of tradition might be continued from history and marbles . 
I have suppressed the foolish pun about Pontifex and Maximus . 
This statue was transported from Tarentum to Rome , placed in the Curia Julia by Caesar , and decorated by Augustus with the spoils of Egypt . 
and the Exordium of Pliny's Panegyric . 
These facts are mutually allowed by the two advocates , Symmachus and Ambrose . 
The Notitia Urbis , more recent than Constantine , does not find one Christian church worthy to be named among the edifices of the city . 
deplores the public scandals of Rome , which continually offended the eyes , the ears , and the nostrils of the faithful . 
In that assembly , the dying embers of freedom were , for a moment , revived and inflamed by the breath of fanaticism . 
Four respectable deputations were successively voted to the Imperial court , to represent the grievances of the priesthood and the senate , and to solicit the restoration of the altar of Victory . 
The orator , whose petition is extant to the emperor Valentinian , was conscious of the difficulty and danger of the office which he had assumed . 
Even scepticism is made to supply an apology for superstition . 
The great and incomprehensible secret of the universe eludes the inquiry of man . 
Most excellent princes , says the venerable matron , fathers of your country ! pity and respect my age , which has hitherto flowed in an uninterrupted course of piety . 
Since I do not repent , permit me to continue in the practice of my ancient rites . 
Since I am born free , allow me to enjoy my domestic institutions . 
This religion has reduced the world under my laws . 
These rites have repelled Hannibal from the city , and the Gauls from the Capitol . 
that the Christians had a majority in the senate . 
to Theodosius and the fourth to Valentinian . 
fairly represents the whole transaction . 
Symmachus , who was invested with all the civil and sacerdotal honors , represented the emperor under the two characters of Pontifex Maximus , and Princeps Senatus . 
See the proud inscription at the head of his works . 
Note Mr. Beugnot has made it doubtful whether Symmachus was more than Pontifex Major . 
Destruction du Paganisme , vol . 
should dig in the mud with an instrument of gold and ivory . 
Even saints , and polemic saints , treat this adversary with respect and civility . 
See the fifty fourth Epistle of the tenth book of Symmachus . 
But the luxcriancy of Symmachus consists of barren leaves , without fruits , and even without flowers . 
Few facts , and few sentiments , can be extracted from his verbose correspondence . 
But the hopes of Symmachus were repeatedly baffled by the firm and dexterous opposition of the archbishop of Milan , who fortified the emperors against the fallacious eloquence of the advocate of Rome . 
He justly derides the absurd reverence for antiquity , which could only tend to discourage the improvements of art , and to replunge the human race into their original barbarism . 
Rome submitted to the yoke of the Gospel and the vanquished provinces had not yet lost their reverence for the name and authority of Rome . 
The former of these epistles is a short caution the latter is a formal reply of the petition or libel of Symmachus . 
The same ideas are more copiously expressed in the poetry , if it may deserve that name , of Prudentius who composed his two books against Symmachus while that senator was still alive . 
should overlook the two professed antagonists of Symmachus , and amuse himself with descanting on the more remote and indirect confutations of Orosius , St . 
But the time and circumstances are better suited to his first triumph . 
questions , altogether , the truth of this statement . 
It is very remarkable that Zosimus and Prudentius concur in asserting the fact of the question being solemnly deliberated by the senate , though with directly opposite results . 
by Pagi and Tillemont , that Theodosius did not visit Rome after the defeat of Eugenius . 
The silence of Ambrose and of Jerom on an event so striking , and redounding so much to the honor of Christianity , is of considerable weight . 
Zosimus ascribes to the conscript feathers a heathenish courage , which few of them are found to possess . 
Exultare Patres videas , pulcherrima mundi Lumina Conciliumque senum gestire Catonum Candidiore toga niveum pietatis amictum Sumere et exuvias deponere pontificales . 
M. Beugnot is more correct in his general estimate of the measures enforced by Theodosius for the abolition of Paganism . 
the funds bestowed by the public for the expense of sacrifices . 
The public sacrifices ceased , not because they were positively prohibited , but because the public treasury would no longer bear the expense . 
The public and the private sacrifices in the provinces , which were not under the same regulations with those of the capital , continued to take place . 
In Rome itself , many pagan ceremonies , which were without sacrifice , remained in full force . 
M. Chapter XXVIII Destruction Of Paganism . 
The filial piety of the emperors themselves engaged them to proceed , with some caution and tenderness , in the reformation of the eternal city . 
Those absolute monarchs acted with less regard to the prejudices of the provincials . 
The pious labor which had been suspended near twenty years since the death of Constantius , was vigorously resumed , and finally accomplished , by the zeal of Theodosius . 
Here the desolation might have stopped and the naked edifices , which were no longer employed in the service of idolatry , might have been protected from the destructive rage of fanaticism . 
Those stately edifices might be suffered to remain , as so many lasting trophies of the victory of Christ . 
His attack was resisted by the skill and solidity with which the temple of Jupiter had been constructed . 
The force of the strongest and sharpest tools had been tried without effect . 
In the support of this cause , the monks , who rushed with tumultuous fury from the desert , distinguished themselves by their zeal and diligence . 
A small number of temples was protected by the fears , the venality , the taste , or the prudence , of the civil and ecclesiastical governors . 
accuses Valentinian and Valens of prohibiting sacrifices . 
Some partial order may have been issued by the Eastern emperor but the idea of any general law is contradicted by the silence of the Code , and the evidence of ecclesiastical history . 
Note See in Reiske's edition of Libanius , tom . 
Sacrific was prohibited by Valens , but not the offering of incense . 
M. See his laws in the Theodosian Code , l . 
, apud Baronium , Annal . 
labors to prove that the commands of Theodosius were not direct and positive . 
Neander well observes , that the prohibition of sacrifice would be easily misinterpreted into an authority for the destruction of the buildings in which sacrifices were performed . 
An abuse of this kind led to this remarkable oration of Libanius . 
Neander , however , justly doubts whether this bold vindication or at least exculpation , of Paganism was ever delivered before , or even placed in the hands of the Christian emperor . 
See this curious oration of Libanius pro Templis , pronounced , or rather composed , about the year . 
I have consulted , with advantage , Dr . 
See the Life of Martin by Sulpicius Severus , c . 
a harmless funeral for an idolatrous procession , and imprudently committed a miracle . 
Between them , they relate the crusade and death of Marcellus . 
Libanius , pro Templis , p . 
He rails at these black garbed men , the Christian monks , who eat more than elephants . 
Poor elephants ! they are temperate animals . 
A. D. , No. , c . 
The temple had been shut some time , and the access to it was overgrown with brambles . 
Donatus , Roma Antiqua et Nova , l . 
This consecration was performed by Pope Boniface IV . 
I am ignorant of the favorable circumstances which had preserved the Pantheon above two hundred years after the reign of Theodosius . 
In this wide and various prospect of devastation , the spectator may distinguish the ruins of the temple of Serapis , at Alexandria . 
Serapis does not appear to have been one of the native gods , or monsters , who sprung from the fruitful soil of superstitious Egypt . 
The Egyptians , who were obstinately devoted to the religion of their fathers , refused to admit this foreign deity within the walls of their cities . 
Alexandria , which claimed his peculiar protection , gloried in the name of the city of Serapis . 
Yet the last , who had been at Alexandria before and after the event , may deserve the credit of an original witness . 
strives to support the strange notion of the Fathers that the patriarch Joseph was adored in Egypt , as the bull Apis , and the god Serapis . 
Paris , and in the fifth volume of Bournouf's translation of Tacitus . 
M. Origo dei nondum nostris celebrata . 
Aegyptiorum antistites sic memorant , c . 
The Greeks , who had travelled into Egypt , were alike ignorant of this new deity . 
Macrobius , Saturnal , l . 
Such a living fact decisively proves his foreign extraction . 
At Rome , Isis and Serapis were united in the same temple . 
The precedency which the queen assumed , may seem to betray her unequal alliance with the stranger of Pontus . 
and the same order is observed in Plutarch's Treatise of Isis and Osiris whom he identifies with Serapis . 
celebrate the Serapeum , as one of the wonders of the world . 
The old library of the Ptolemies was totally consumed in Caesar's Alexandrian war . 
to Cleopatra , as the foundation of the new library of Alexandria . 
indiscreetly provokes his Christian masters by this insulting remark . 
In the tumultuous capital of Egypt , the slightest provocation was sufficient to inflame a civil war . 
The efforts of the prudent magistrate were usefully exerted for the establishment of a truce , till the answer of Theodosius should determine the fate of Serapis . 
The two parties assembled , without arms , in the principal square and the Imperial rescript was publicly read . 
Charges like these may seem to deserve some degree of credit , as they are not repugnant to the crafty and interested spirit of superstition . 
The colossal statue of Serapis was involved in the ruin of his temple and religion . 
A great number of plates of different metals , artificially joined together , composed the majestic figure of the deity , who touched on either side the walls of the sanctuary . 
The aspect of Serapis , his sitting posture , and the sceptre , which he bore in his left hand , were extremely similar to the ordinary representations of Jupiter . 
It was confidently affirmed , that if any impious hand should dare to violate the majesty of the god , the heavens and the earth would instantly return to their original chaos . 
The victorious soldier repeated his blows the huge idol was overthrown , and broken in pieces and the limbs of Serapis were ignominiously dragged through the streets of Alexandria . 
His mangled carcass was burnt in the Amphitheatre , amidst the shouts of the populace and many persons attributed their conversion to this discovery of the impotence of their tutelar deity . 
But this delay was soon compensated by the rapid swell of the waters . 
prefers the former , and Pagi the latter . 
No doubt a temple of Osiris . 
has alleged beautiful passage from Suidas , or rather from Damascius , which show the devout and virtuous Olympius , not in the light of a warrior , but of a prophet . 
Nos vidimus armaria librorum , quibus direptis , exinanita ea a nostris hominibus , nostris temporibus memorant . 
Though a bigot , and a controversial writer . 
Eunapius , in the Lives of Antoninus and Aedesius , execrates the sacrilegious rapine of Theophilus . 
quotes an epistle of Isidore of Pelusium , which reproaches the primate with the idolatrous worship of gold , the auri sacra fames . 
An English traveller , Mr. Wilkinson , has discovered the secret of the vocal Memnon . 
There was a cavity in which a person was concealed , and struck a stone , which gave a ringing sound like brass . 
The Arabs , who stood below when Mr. Wilkinson performed the miracle , described sound just as the author of the epigram . 
may prove that such amorous frauds have been practised with success . 
is much more picturesque and satisfactory . 
Sed fortes tremuere manus , motique verenda Majestate loci , si robora sacra ferirent In sua credebant redituras membra secures . 
and you now sup on one of the legs of the goddess . 
The history of the reformation affords frequent examples of the sudden change from superstition to contempt . 
I have supplied the measure . 
The same standard , of the inundation , and consequently of the cubit , has uniformly subsisted since the time of Herodotus . 
See Freret , in the Mem . 
de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Greaves's Miscellaneous Works , vol . 
The Egyptian cubit is about twenty two inches of the English measure . 
Note Compare Wilkinson's Thebes and Egypt , p . 
The inhabitants of the country , whose conduct was less opposed to the eye of malicious curiosity , disguised their religious , under the appearance of convivial , meetings . 
This prohibitory law is expressed in the most absolute and comprehensive terms . 
a crime of high treason against the state , which can be expiated only by the death of the guilty . 
Such was the persecuting spirit of the laws of Theodosius , which were repeatedly enforced by his sons and grandsons , with the loud and unanimous applause of the Christian world . 
pleads their cause with gentle and insinuating rhetoric . 
From the earliest age , such feasts had enlivened the country and those of Bacchus had produced the theatre of Athens . 
See Godefroy , ad loc . 
Absque ullo sacrificio , atque ulla superstitione damnabili . 
censures , with becoming asperity , the style and sentiments of this intolerant law . 
Paganism maintained its ground for a considerable time in the rural districts . 
Endelechius , a poet who lived at the beginning of the fifth century , speaks of the cross as Signum quod perhibent esse crucis Dei , Magnis qui colitur solus inurbibus . 
Augustine complains of the encouragement of the Pagan rites by heathen landowners and Zeno of Verona , still later , reproves the apathy of the Christian proprietors in conniving at this abuse . 
M. Beugnot shows that this was the case throughout the north and centre of Italy and in Sicily . 
But neither of these authors has adverted to one fact , which must have tended greatly to retard the progress of Christianity in these quarters . 
The rural population was probably not entirely converted before the general establishment of the monastic institutions . 
Compare Quarterly Review of Beugnot . 
M. Such a charge should not be lightly made but it may surely be justified by the authority of St . 
who adds some judicious reflections on the intolerance of the victorious Christians . 
Note Yet Augustine , with laudable inconsistency , disapproved of the forcible demolition of the temples . 
Let us first extirpate the idolatry of the hearts of the heathen , and they will either themselves invite us or anticipate us in the execution of this good work , tom . 
, and , in p . 
, a beautiful passage from Chrysostom against all violent means of propagating Christianity . 
M. Chapter XXVIII Destruction Of Paganism . 
But the same excuses of fear and ignorance cannot be applied to the Christian emperors who violated the precepts of humanity and of the Gospel . 
But such obstinate zeal was not congenial to the loose and careless temper of Polytheism . 
The disorderly opposition of the peasants of Syria , and the populace of Alexandria , to the rage of private fanaticism , was silenced by the name and authority of the emperor . 
The Pagans of the West , without contributing to the elevation of Eugenius , disgraced , by their partial attachment , the cause and character of the usurper . 
mentions , without censure the occasional conformity , and as it were theatrical play , of these hypocrites . 
by declaring to the emperor , that unless he expressly warrants the destruction of the temples , the proprietors will defend themselves and the laws . 
The interruption of that public exercise may consummate , in the period of a few years , the important work of a national revolution . 
The memory of theological opinions cannot long be preserved , without the artificial helps of priests , of temples , and of books . 
a rash joke , and a dangerous experiment . 
Some princes would have taken his advice . 
A statue in honor of Merobaudes was placed in the Forum of Trajan , of which the inscription is still extant . 
Fragments of his poems have been recovered by the industry and sagacity of Niebuhr . 
Jam superos terris atque hospita numina pelle Romanos populare Deos , et nullus in aris Vestoe exoratoe fotus strue palleat ignis . 
Ilis instructa dolis palatia celsa subibo Majorum mores , et pectora prisca fugabo Funditus atque simul , nullo discrimine rerum , Spernantur fortes , nec sic reverentia justis . 
of the Byzantines , p . 
M. Denique pro meritis terrestribus aequa rependens Munera , sacricolis summos impertit honores . 
Dux bonus , et certare sinit cum laude suorum , Nec pago implicitos per debita culmina mundi Ire viros prohibet . 
Ipse magistratum tibi consulis , ipse tribunal Contulit . 
Note I have inserted some lines omitted by Gibbon . 
is proud that Theodosius should thus distinguish a man , who even in his presence would swear by Jupiter . 
Yet this presence seems to be no more than a figure of rhetoric . 
Zosimus , who styles himself Count and Ex advocate of the Treasury , reviles , with partial and indecent bigotry , the Christian princes , and even the father of his sovereign . 
who lived towards the end of the sixth century . 
Note Heyne in his Disquisitio in Zosimum Ejusque Fidem . 
places Zosimum towards the close of the fifth century . 
M. Yet the Pagans of Africa complained , that the times would not allow them to answer with freedom the City of God nor does St . 
Paganos qui supersunt , quanquam jam nullos esse credamus , c . 
The younger Theodosius was afterwards satisfied , that his judgment had been somewhat premature . 
Note The statement of Gibbon is much too strongly worded . 
M. Beugnot has traced the vestiges of Paganism in the West , after this period , in monuments and inscriptions with curious industry . 
Compare likewise note , p . 
, on the more tardy progress of Christianity in the rural districts . 
are the authors of the new worship , which , in the place of those deities who are conceived by the understanding , has substituted the meanest and most contemptible slaves . 
One hundred and fifty years after the glorious deaths of St . 
Paul , the Vatican and the Ostian road were distinguished by the tombs , or rather by the trophies , of those spiritual heroes . 
The new capital of the Eastern world , unable to produce any ancient and domestic trophies , was enriched by the spoils of dependent provinces . 
About fifty years afterwards , the same banks were honored by the presence of Samuel , the judge and prophet of the people of Israel . 
His ashes , deposited in a golden vase , and covered with a silken veil , were delivered by the bishops into each other's hands . 
The example of Rome and Constantinople confirmed the faith and discipline of the Catholic world . 
See Eunapius , in the Life of the sophist Aedesius in that of Eustathius he foretells the ruin of Paganism . 
is an early witness of this superstitious practice . 
I am indebted for this quotation to Benedict the XIVth's pastoral letter on the Jubilee of the year . 
See the curious and entertaining letters of M. Chais , tom . 
Male facit ergo Romanus episcopus ? qui , super mortuorum hominum , Petri Pauli , secundum nos , ossa veneranda . 
offeri Domino sacrificia , et tumulos eorum , Christi arbitratur altaria . 
bears witness to these translations , which are neglected by the ecclesiastical historians . 
wishes to believe , and Tillemont is forced to reject . 
pompously describes the translation of Samuel , which is noticed in all the chronicles of the times . 
The presbyter Vigilantius , the Protestant of his age , firmly , though ineffectually , withstood the superstition of monks , relics , saints , fasts , c . 
, for which Jerom compares him to the Hydra , Cerberus , the Centaurs , c . 
Whoever will peruse the controversy of St . 
Jerom and Vigilantius , and St . 
Augustin's account of the miracles of St . 
Stephen , may speedily gain some idea of the spirit of the Fathers . 
I. The satisfactory experience , that the relics of saints were more valuable than gold or precious stones , stimulated the clergy to multiply the treasures of the church . 
Without much regard for truth or probability , they invented names for skeletons , and actions for names . 
The fame of the apostles , and of the holy men who had imitated their virtues , was darkened by religious fiction . 
A superstitious practice , which tended to increase the temptations of fraud , and credulity , insensibly extinguished the light of history , and of reason , in the Christian world . 
has applied a worldly sense to the pious observation of the clergy of Smyrna , who carefully preserved the relics of St . 
extorted this confession from the mouth of the dead man . 
The error is allowed to be natural the discovery is supposed to be miraculous . 
Which of the two was likely to happen most frequently ? II . 
The doubts and difficulties which still retarded this important discovery were successively removed by new visions and the ground was opened by the bishop , in the presence of an innumerable multitude . 
The grave and learned Augustin , whose understanding scarcely admits the excuse of credulity , has attested the innumerable prodigies which were performed in Africa by the relics of St . 
Many prodigies were omitted , or forgotten and Hippo had been less favorably treated than the other cities of the province . 
And yet the bishop enumerates above seventy miracles , of which three were resurrections from the dead , in the space of two years , and within the limits of his own diocese . 
The Benedictine editors of St . 
two several copies , with many various readings . 
It is the character of falsehood to be loose and inconsistent . 
Stephen's blood was annually liquefied at Naples , till he was superseded by St . 
Augustin composed the two and twenty books de Civitate Dei in the space of thirteen years , A. D. . 
, and the Appendix , which contains two books of St . 
Stephen's miracles , by Evodius , bishop of Uzalis . 
has preserved a Gallic or a Spanish proverb , Whoever pretends to have read all the miracles of St . 
that they enjoyed the lively and active consciousness of their happiness , their virtue , and their powers and that they had already secured the possession of their eternal reward . 
collects the opinions of the Fathers , as far as they assert the sleep , or repose , of human souls till the day of judgment . 
the inconveniences which must arise , if they possessed a more active and sensible existence . 
or else under the altar of God . 
Nec posse suis tumulis et ubi voluerunt adesse praesentes . 
Tu Deo leges pones ? Tu apostolis vincula injicies , ut usque ad diem judicii teneantur custodia , nec sint cum Domino suo de quibus scriptum est , Sequuntur Agnum quocunque vadit . 
Si Agnus ubique , ergo , et hi , qui cum Agno sunt , ubique esse credendi sunt . 
Et cum diabolus et daemones tote vagentur in orbe , c . 
At Minorca , the relics of St . 
observes , like a philosopher , the natural flux and reflux of polytheism and theism . 
As the objects of religion were gradually reduced to the standard of the imagination , the rites and ceremonies were introduced that seemed most powerfully to affect the senses of the vulgar . 
The Christians frequented the tombs of the martyrs , in the hope of obtaining , from their powerful intercession , every sort of spiritual , but more especially of temporal , blessings . 
They implored the preservation of their health , or the cure of their infirmities the fruitfulness of their barren wives , or the safety and happiness of their children . 
The religion of Constantine achieved , in less than a century , the final conquest of the Roman empire but the victors themselves were insensibly subdued by the arts of their vanquished rivals . 
frankly offered , with the consent of the Huguenot ministers , to allow the first years as the rule of faith . 
The Cardinal du Perron haggled for forty years more , which were indiscreetly given . 
Yet neither party would have found their account in this foolish bargain . 
The worship practised and inculcated by Tertullian , Lactantius Arnobius , c . 
, is so extremely pure and spiritual , that their declamations against the Pagan sometimes glance against the Jewish , ceremonies . 
Faustus the Manichaean accuses the Catholics of idolatry . 
a Protestant , but a philosopher , has represented , with candor and learning , the introduction of Christian idolatry in the fourth and fifth centuries . 
The resemblance of superstition , which could not be imitated , might be traced from Japan to Mexico . 
The imitation of Paganism is the subject of Dr . 
Middleton's agreeable letter from Rome . 
the history of the two religions , and to prove the antiquity of the Christian copy . 
But there was always this important difference between Christian and heathen Polytheism . 
M. Chapter XXIX Division Of Roman Empire Between Sons Of Theodosius . 
Part I. Final Division Of The Roman Empire Between The Sons Of Theodosius . 
Reign Of Arcadius And Honorius Administration Of Rufinus And Stilicho . 
Revolt And Defeat Of Gildo In Africa . 
The memory of his virtues still continued , however , to protect the feeble and inexperienced youth of his two sons . 
Arcadius , who was then about eighteen years of age , was born in Spain , in the humble habitation of a private family . 
The gradual discovery of the weakness of Arcadius and Honorius , and the repeated calamities of their reign , were not sufficient to obliterate the deep and early impressions of loyalty . 
He was raised , by just degrees , to the station of master of the offices . 
This act of violence was represented to the emperor as an insult , which it was incumbent on his dignity to resent . 
was imputed to the perfidious arts of Rufinus . 
The two praefects were accused of rapine and corruption in the administration of the laws and finances . 
He was instantly seized , examined , condemned , and beheaded , in one of the suburbs of Constantinople , with a precipitation which disappointed the clemency of the emperor . 
and perhaps desired , the relief of a speedy death , he was permitted to consume the miserable remnant of his old age in poverty and exile . 
was not diverted , however , by the most criminal pursuits , from the performance of the religious duties , which in that age were considered as the most essential to salvation . 
In the suburb of Chalcedon , surnamed the Oak , he had built a magnificent villa to which he devoutly added a stately church , consecrated to the apostles St . 
Paul , and continually sanctified by the prayers and penance of a regular society of monks . 
Alecto , envious of the public felicity , convenes an infernal synod Megaera recommends her pupil Rufinus , and excites him to deeds of mischief , c . 
But there is as much difference between Claudian's fury and that of Virgil , as between the characters of Turnus and Rufinus . 
A passage of Suidas is expressive of his profound dissimulation . 
who accuse them of oppressing the Curiae . 
Juvenum rorantia colla Ante patrum vultus stricta cecidere securi . 
Ibat grandaevus nato moriente superstes Post trabeas exsul . 
The facts of Zosimus explain the allusions of Claudian but his classic interpreters were ignorant of the fourth century . 
The fatal cord , I found , with the help of Tillemont , in a sermon of St . 
This odious law is recited and repealed by Arcadius , on the Theodosian Code , l . 
and Godefroy , is perfectly clear . 
Exscindere cives Funditus et nomen gentis delere laborat . 
The scruples of Pagi and Tillemont can arise only from their zeal for the glory of Theodosius . 
Rufinum propriis manibus suscepit sacro fonte mundatum . 
See Rosweyde's Vitae Patrum , p . 
records this synod , in which St . 
Gregory of Nyssa performed a conspicuous part . 
Perhaps he deceived himself by the opinion , that his avarice was the instrument of his ambition . 
The Count of the fifteen provinces of the East was dragged , like the vilest malefactor , before the arbitrary tribunal of Rufinus . 
to discourage the prosecution of treasonable , or sacrilegious , words . 
A tyrannical statute always proves the existence of tyranny but a laudable edict may only contain the specious professions , or ineffectual wishes , of the prince , or his ministers . 
This , I am afraid , is a just , though mortifying , canon of criticism . 
fluctibus auri Expleri sitis ista nequit Congestae cumulantur opes orbisque ruinas Accipit una domus . 
and by Suidas , who copied the history of Eunapius . 
Caetera segnis Ad facinus velox penitus regione remotas Impiger ire vias . 
While the praefect satiated his revenge at Antioch , a secret conspiracy of the favorite eunuchs , directed by the great chamberlain Eutropius , undermined his power in the palace of Constantinople . 
But he still possessed the most effectual means of defending his dignity , and perhaps of oppressing his enemies . 
praises the valor , prudence , and integrity of Bauto the Frank . 
Arsenius escaped from the palace of Constantinople , and passed fifty five years in rigid penance in the monasteries of Egypt . 
and Fleury , Hist Eccles . 
but the latter , for want of authentic materials , has given too much credit to the legend of Metaphrastes . 
Our form of marriage requires , with less delicacy , the express and public consent of a virgin . 
and the Chronicle of Marcellinus . 
paints , in lively colors , the distress and guilt of the praefect . 
The ambition and the abilities of Stilicho were not unequal to the important trust and he claimed the guardianship of the two empires , during the minority of Arcadius and Honorius . 
The first measure of his administration , or rather of his reign , displayed to the nations the vigor and activity of a spirit worthy to command . 
Two rivals only remained to dispute the claims , and to provoke the vengeance , of Stilicho . 
Stilicho , directly or indirectly , is the perpetual theme of Claudian . 
The youth and private life of the hero are vaguely expressed in the poem on his first consulship , . 
Vandalorum , imbellis , avarae , perfidae , et dolosae , gentis , genere editus . 
call him a Semi Barbarian . 
Claudian , in an imperfect poem , has drawn a fair , perhaps a flattering , portrait of Serena . 
expresses , in poetic language the dilectus equorum , and the gemino mox idem culmine duxit agmina . 
The inscription adds , count of the domestics , an important command , which Stilicho , in the height of his grandeur , might prudently retain . 
Si bellica moles Ingrueret , quamvis annis et jure minori , Cedere grandaevos equitum peditumque magistros Adspiceres . 
A modern general would deem their submission either heroic patriotism or abject servility . 
We may perceive the deep , inveterate malice of Rufinus . 
Quem fratribus ipse Discedens , clypeum defensoremque dedisti . 
jubet and may therefore be suspected . 
Zosimus and Suidas apply to Stilicho and Rufinus the same equal title of guardians , or procurators . 
The Roman law distinguishes two sorts of minority , which expired at the age of fourteen , and of twenty five . 
But these legal ideas were never accurately transferred into the constitution of an elective monarchy . 
but he must allow more than fifteen days for the journey and return between Milan and Leyden . 
Chapter XXIX Division Of Roman Empire Between Sons Of Theodosius . 
According to the savage maxims of the Greek republics , his innocent family would have shared the punishment of his crimes . 
The wife and daughter of Rufinus were indebted for their safety to the influence of religion . 
Not only the robes and diadems of the deceased emperor , but even the helmets , sword hilts , belts , rasses , c . 
, were enriched with pearls , emeralds , and diamonds . 
Tantoque remoto Principe , mutatas orbis non sensit habenas . 
Stilicho's march , and the death of Rufinus , are described by Claudian , Zosimus , l . 
and the Chronicle of Marcellinus . 
The Pagan Zosimus mentions their sanctuary and pilgrimage . 
The sister of Rufinus , Sylvania , who passed her life at Jerusalem , is famous in monastic history . 
The studious virgin had diligently , and even repeatedly , perused the commentators on the Bible , Origen , Gregory , Basil , c . 
, to the amount of five millions of lines . 
See the Vitae Patrum , p . 
Such an act might vindicate the honor of Providence , but it did not much contribute to the happiness of the people . 
Even Stilicho did not derive from the murder of his rival the fruit which he had proposed and though he gratified his revenge , his ambition was disappointed . 
They incessantly labored , by dark and treacherous machinations , to deprive him of the esteem of the prince , the respect of the people , and the friendship of the Barbarians . 
See the beautiful exordium of his invective against Rufinus , which is curiously discussed by the sceptic Bayle , Dictionnaire Critique , Rufin . 
E. See the Theodosian Code , l . 
The new ministers attempted , with inconsistent avarice , to seize the spoils of their predecessor , and to provide for their own future security . 
Plaudentem cerne senatum , Et Byzantinos proceres Graiosque Quirites O patribus plebes , O digni consule patres . 
It is curious to observe the first symptoms of jealousy and schism between old and new Rome , between the Greeks and Latins . 
Gildo alternately indulged the passions of avarice and lust and if his days were terrible to the rich , his nights were not less dreadful to husbands and parents . 
Claudian may have exaggerated the vices of Gildo but his Moorish extraction , his notorious actions , and the complaints of St . 
Augustin , may justify the poet's invectives . 
has treated the African rebellion with skill and learning . 
Instat terribilis vivis , morientibus haeres , Virginibus raptor , thalamis obscoenus adulter . 
Nulla quies oritur praeda cessante libido , Divitibusque dies , et nox metuenda maritis . 
Mauris clarissima quaeque Fastidita datur . 
De Bello Gildonico , , . 
Baronius condemns , still more severely , the licentiousness of Gildo as his wife , his daughter , and his sister , were examples of perfect chastity . 
The adulteries of the African soldiers are checked by one of the Imperial laws . 
Inque tuam sortem numerosas transtulit urbes . 
Their unanimous suffrage declared him the enemy of the republic and the decree of the senate added a sacred and legitimate sanction to the Roman arms . 
The subsistence of Rome depended on the harvests of Africa and it was evident , that a declaration of war would be the signal of famine . 
The prudence of Stilicho conceived and executed , without delay , the most effectual measure for the relief of the Roman people . 
seems to feel the spirit of a Roman . 
The spirit of discord which prevailed in the house of Nabal , had excited a deadly quarrel between two of his sons , Gildo and Mascezel . 
The affliction of the father was suspended only by the desire of revenge . 
is filled , or rather defiled , by men who fly from the light . 
They call themselves Monks , or solitaries , because they choose to live alone , without any witnesses of their actions . 
They fear the gifts of fortune , from the apprehension of losing them and , lest they should be miserable , they embrace a life of voluntary wretchedness . 
How absurd is their choice ! how perverse their understanding ! to dread the evils , without being able to support the blessings , of the human condition . 
Either this melancholy madness is the effect of disease , or exercise on their own bodies the tortures which are inflicted on fugitive slaves by the hand of justice . 
Such was the contempt of a profane magistrate for the monks as the chosen servants of God . 
The Moorish war was not worthy of Honorius , or Stilicho , c . 
The change of discipline allowed him to use indifferently the names of Legio Cohors , Manipulus . 
See Notitia Imperii , S. , . 
mentions a religious madman on the Isle of Gorgona . 
For such profane remarks , Rutilius and his accomplices are styled , by his commentator , Barthius , rabiosi canes diaboli . 
more calmly observes , that the unbelieving poet praises where he means to censure . 
Here the first book of the Gildonic war is terminated . 
The rest of Claudian's poem has been lost and we are ignorant how or where the army made good their landing in Afica . 
Gildo was prepared to resist the invasion with all the forces of Africa . 
The arm , and the standard , sunk under the weight of the blow and the imaginary act of submission was hastily repeated by all the standards of the line . 
Orosius must be responsible for the account . 
The presumption of Gildo and his various train of Barbarians is celebrated by Claudian , Cons . 
Ambrose , who had been dead about a year , revealed , in a vision , the time and place of the victory . 
Mascezel afterwards related his dream to Paulinus , the original biographer of the saint , from whom it might easily pass to Orosius . 
supposes an obstinate combat but the narrative of Orosius appears to conceal a real fact , under the disguise of a miracle . 
Orosius has distinctly named the field of battle , but our ignorance cannot define the precise situation . 
and his best interpreters , Zosimus and Orosius . 
and applauds the restoration of the ancient constitution . 
It is here that he introduces the famous sentence , so familiar to the friends of despotism Nunquam libertas gratior exstat , Quam sub rege pio . 
But the freedom which depends on royal piety , scarcely deserves appellation See the Theodosian Code , l . 
for violating the right of sanctuary . 
The ancient fables of Greece , which had almost ceased to be the object of religious faith , were saved from oblivion by the genius of poetry . 
had not much to fear or to hope from the passions of her lover . 
In the eventful history of a reign of twenty eight years , it will seldom be necessary to mention the name of the emperor Honorius . 
Calet obvius ire Jam princeps , tardumque cupit discedere solem . 
Dices , O quoties , hoc mihi dulcius Quam flavos decics vincere Sarmatas . 
Tum victor madido prosilias toro , Nocturni referens vulnera proelii . 
I have borrowed the general practice of Honorius , without adopting the singular , and indeed improbable tale , which is related by the Greek historian . 
might compose a fine institution for the future prince of a great and free nation . 
It was far above Honorius , and his degenerate subjects . 
Chapter XXX Revolt Of The Goths . 
Part I. Revolt Of The Goths . 
Two Great Invasions Of Italy By Alaric And Radagaisus . 
They Are Repulsed By Stilicho . 
Usurpation Of Constantine In The West . 
Disgrace And Death Of Stilicho . 
He died in the month of January and before the end of the winter of the same year , the Gothic nation was in arms . 
The Barbarian auxiliaries erected their independent standard and boldly avowed the hostile designs , which they had long cherished in their ferocious minds . 
The Goths , instead of being impelled by the blind and headstrong passions of their chiefs , were now directed by the bold and artful genius of Alaric . 
Whatever hopes might be entertained of the conquest of Constantinople , the judicious general soon abandoned an impracticable enterprise . 
Alii per toga ferocis Danubii solidata ruunt expertaque remis Frangunt stagna rotis . 
Claudian and Ovid often amuse their fancy by interchanging the metaphors and properties of liquid water , and solid ice . 
Much false wit has been expended in this easy exercise . 
is our best guide for the conquest of Greece but the hints and allusion of Claudian are so many rays of historic light . 
The treaty was ratified by solemn oaths , and observed with mutual fidelity . 
If thou art a god , thou wilt not hurt those who have never injured thee if thou art a man , advance and thou wilt find men equal to thyself . 
The narrow entrance of Greece was probably enlarged by each successive ravisher . 
through the straits , of Thermopylae . 
I have mixed some darker colors in the mild representation of Zosimus , who wished to soften the calamities of Athens . 
Nec fera Cecropias traxissent vincula matres . 
observes , that Athens , whose sufferings he imputes to the proconsul's avarice , was at that time less famous for her schools of philosophy than for her trade of honey . 
Vallata mari Scironia rupes , Et duo continuo connectens aequora muro Isthmos . 
Hadrian made the road passable for two carriages . 
vaguely , though forcibly , delineates the scene of rapine and destruction . 
Homer perpetually describes the exemplary patience of those female captives , who gave their charms , and even their hearts , to the murderers of their fathers , brothers , c . 
is touched with admirable delicacy by Racine . 
gives the genuine answer in the Laconic dialect . 
had so nobly painted him . 
intimates that a troop of monks betrayed Greece , and followed the Gothic camp . 
Note The expression is curious Vit . 
This unfortunate delay allowed Alaric sufficient time to conclude the treaty , which he secretly negotiated , with the ministers of Constantinople . 
As the event was not glorious , it is artfully thrown into the shade . 
The troops who marched through Elis delivered up their arms . 
This security enriched the Eleans , who were lovers of a rural life . 
Riches begat pride they disdained their privilege , and they suffered . 
Polybius advises them to retire once more within their magic circle . 
See a learned and judicious discourse on the Olympic games , which Mr. West has prefixed to his translation of Pindar . 
Et Alpheus Geticis angustus acervis Tardior ad Siculos etiamnum pergit amores . 
Yet I should prefer the Peneus , a shallow stream in a wide and deep bed , which runs through Elis , and falls into the sea below Cyllene . 
It had been joined with the Alpheus to cleanse the Augean stable . 
They measured from different points the distance between the two lands . 
A Grecian philosopher , who visited Constantinople soon after the death of Theodosius , published his liberal opinions concerning the duties of kings , and the state of the Roman republic . 
Synesius observes , and deplores , the fatal abuse , which the imprudent bounty of the late emperor had introduced into the military service . 
The citizens and subjects had purchased an exemption from the indispensable duty of defending their country which was supported by the arms of Barbarian mercenaries . 
The measures which Synesius recommends , are the dictates of a bold and generous patriot . 
The court of Arcadius indulged the zeal , applauded the eloquence , and neglected the advice , of Synesius . 
The Roman provincials , and the allies , who had respected the faith of treaties , were justly indignant , that the ruin of Greece and Epirus should be so liberally rewarded . 
The Gothic conqueror was received as a lawful magistrate , in the cities which he had so lately besieged . 
The use to which Alaric applied his new command , distinguishes the firm and judicious character of his policy . 
The provinces of Europe which belonged to the Eastern emperor , were already exhausted those of Asia were inaccessible and the strength of Constantinople had resisted his attack . 
at Constantinople , as deputy from Cyrene to the emperor Arcadius . 
The philosopher was made bishop of Ptolemais , A. D. , and died about . 
Synesius de Regno , p . 
in the use which he had made of this Illyrian jurisdiction . 
The Gothic historian adds , with unusual spirit , Cum suis deliberans suasit suo labore quaerere regna , quam alienis per otium subjacere . 
Discors odiisque anceps civilibus orbis , Non sua vis tutata diu , dum foedera fallax Ludit , et alternae perjuria venditat aulae . 
Alpibus Italiae ruptis penetrabis ad Urbem . 
seven years before the event . 
But as it was not accomplished within the term which has been rashly fixed the interpreters escaped through an ambiguous meaning . 
The scarcity of facts , and the uncertainty of dates , oppose our attempts to describe the circumstances of the first invasion of Italy by the arms of Alaric . 
was still exposed to the undistinguishing rage of war . 
The public distress was aggravated by the fears and reproaches of superstition . 
Our best materials are verses of Claudian in the poem on the Getic war , and the beginning of that which celebrates the sixth consulship of Honorius . 
Zosimus is totally silent and we are reduced to such scraps , or rather crumbs , as we can pick from Orosius and the Chronicles . 
that the battle of Polentia was fought A. D. but we cannot easily fill the interval . 
Tantum Romanae urbis judicium fugis , ut magis obsidionem barbaricam , quam pacatoe urbis judicium velis sustinere . 
Rufinus understood his own danger the peaceful city was inflamed by the beldam Marcella , and the rest of Jerom's faction . 
See the original edict of banishment in the Theodosian Code , xvi . 
is one of the earliest and most pleasing compositions of Claudian . 
has some natural and happy strokes but it is much inferior to the original portrait , which is evidently drawn from the life . 
Ingentem meminit parvo qui germine quercum Aequaevumque videt consenuisse nemus . 
A neighboring wood born with himself he sees , And loves his old contemporary trees . 
In this passage , Cowley is perhaps superior to his original and the English poet , who was a good botanist , has concealed the oaks under a more general expression . 
He may seem prolix but fear and superstition occupied as large a space in the minds of the Italians . 
it is manifest that the general alarm had pervaded all Italy , as far as Nola in Campania , where that famous penitent had fixed his abode . 
Chapter XXX Revolt Of The Goths . 
The emperor Honorius was distinguished , above his subjects , by the preeminence of fear , as well as of rank . 
The arts of flattery concealed the impending danger , till Alaric approached the palace of Milan . 
The fortresses of the Rhine were abandoned and the safety of Gaul was protected only by the faith of the Germans , and the ancient terror of the Roman name . 
The prudence and vigor of Stilicho were conspicuous on this occasion , which revealed , at the same time , the weakness of the falling empire . 
Solus erat Stilicho , c . 
without condescending to except the emperor . 
How insignificant must Honorius have appeared in his own court . 
Venit et extremis legio praetenta Britannis , Quae Scoto dat frena truci . 
Chapter XXX Revolt Of The Goths . 
They weighed the glory of persisting in their attempt against the advantage of securing their plunder and they recommended the prudent measure of a seasonable retreat . 
which is often tormented by the capricious and irregular abundance of waters . 
The Austrians , before Genoa , were encamped in the dry bed of the Polcevera . 
mai passato per mente a que' buoni Alemanni , che quel picciolo torrente potesse , per cosi dire , in un instante cangiarsi in un terribil gigante . 
According to Le Beau and his commentator M. St . 
Martin , Honorius did not attempt to fly . 
Settlements were offered to the Goths in Lombardy , and they advanced from the Po towards the Alps to take possession of them . 
But it was a treacherous stratagem of Stilicho , who surprised them while they were reposing on the faith of this treaty . 
Asta lay some miles on the right hand . 
Nec me timor impulit ullus . 
Hanc ego vel victor regno , vel morte tenebo Victus , humum . 
of the Gothic Nestor , and Achilles , are strong , characteristic , adapted to the circumstances and possibly not less genuine than those of Livy . 
The skill of the general , and the bravery of the soldiers , surmounted every obstacle . 
is shocked at the impiety of the Romans , who attacked , on Easter Sunday , such pious Christians . 
Yet , at the same time , public prayers were offered at the shrine of St . 
Thomas of Edessa , for the destruction of the Arian robber . 
who quotes a homily , which has been erroneously ascribed to St . 
The vestiges of Pollentia are twenty five miles to the south east of Turin . 
Orosius wishes , in doubtful words , to insinuate the defeat of the Romans . 
Pugnantes vicimus , victores victi sumus . 
Demens Ausonidum gemmata monilia matrum , Romanasque alta famulas cervice petebat . 
celebrate , without ambiguity , the Roman victory of Pollentia . 
They are poetical and party writers yet some credit is due to the most suspicious witnesses , who are checked by the recent notoriety of facts . 
according to the loose geography of a poet . 
After the total defeat of his infantry , he escaped , or rather withdrew , from the field of battle , with the greatest part of his cavalry entire and unbroken . 
But he could not oppose the destructive progress of hunger and disease nor was it possible for him to check the continual desertion of his impatient and capricious Barbarians . 
In this extremity he still found resources in his own courage , or in the moderation of his adversary and the retreat of the Gothic king was considered as the deliverance of Italy . 
The first momen of the public safety is devoted to gratitude and joy but the second is diligently occupied by envy and calumny . 
Claudian and Prudentius must be strictly examined , to reduce the figures , and extort the historic sense , of those poets . 
Et gravant en airain ses freles avantages De mes etats conquis enchainer les images . 
The practice of exposing in triumph the images of kings and provinces was familiar to the Romans . 
The Getic war , and the sixth consulship of Honorius , obscurely connect the events of Alaric's retreat and losses . 
saepe visto , saepe concluso , semperque dimisso . 
Claudian drops the curtain with a fine image . 
The clergy was edified by his frequent visits and liberal gifts to the shrines of the apostles . 
The people was repeatedly gratified by the attention and courtesy of Honorius in the public games , which were celebrated on that occasion with a magnificence not unworthy of the spectator . 
See the inscription in Mascou's History of the Ancient Germans , viii . 
The words are positive and indiscreet Getarum nationem in omne aevum domitam , c . 
In these games of Honorius , the inhuman combats of gladiators polluted , for the last time , the amphitheater of Rome . 
The pathetic representations of Prudentius were less effectual than the generous boldness of Telemachus , and Asiatic monk , whose death was more useful to mankind than his life . 
The Romans were provoked by the interruption of their pleasures and the rash monk , who had descended into the arena to separate the gladiators , was overwhelmed under a shower of stones . 
for the history of gladiators . 
The Christian apologists have not spared these bloody games , which were introduced in the religious festivals of Paganism . 
I wish to believe the story of St . 
Yet no church has been dedicated , no altar has been erected , to the only monk who died a martyr in the cause of humanity . 
No prohibitory law of Honorius is to be found in the Theodosian Code , only the old and imperfect edict of Constantine . 
But Muller has produced no evidence or allusion to gladiatorial shows after this period . 
The combats with wild beasts certainly lasted till the fall of the Western empire but the gladiatorial combats ceased either by common consent , or by Imperial edict . 
M. Crudele gladiatorum spectaculum et inhumanum nonnullis videri solet , et haud scio an ita sit , ut nunc fit . 
He faintly censures the abuse , and warmly defends the use , of these sports oculis nulla poterat esse fortior contra dolorem et mortem disciplina . 
shows the feelings of a man . 
Even this alteration contributed to increase the natural strength of the place , and the shallowness of the water was a sufficient barrier against the large ships of the enemy . 
Yet I still want a local antiquarian and a good topographical map . 
plays on the trick of the knave , who had sold him wine instead of water but he seriously declares that a cistern at Ravenna is more valuable than a vineyard . 
From the year , the dates of the Theodosian Code become sedentary at Constantinople and Ravenna . 
See Godefroy's Chronology of the Laws , tom . 
The fears of Honorius were not without foundation , nor were his precautions without effect . 
The youth of Toulun , the greatest of his descendants , was exercised by those misfortunes which are the school of heroes . 
He bravely struggled with adversity , broke the imperious yoke of the Topa , and became the legislator of his nation , and the conqueror of Tartary . 
His tents , which he removed in the winter season to a more southern latitude , were pitched , during the summer , on the fruitful banks of the Selinga . 
His conquests stretched from Corea far beyond the River Irtish . 
See M. de Guignes , Hist . 
There is no authority which connects this inroad of the Teutonic tribes with the movements of the Huns . 
has observed an emigration from the Palus Maeotis to the north of Germany , which he ascribes to famine . 
But his views of ancient history are strangely darkened by ignorance and error . 
uses the general description of the nations beyond the Danube and the Rhine . 
Their situation , and consequently their names , are manifestly shown , even in the various epithets which each ancient writer may have casually added . 
A hero might naturally assume the appellation of his tutelar god but it is not probable that the Barbarians should worship an unsuccessful hero . 
of the Germans , viii . 
Note The god of war and of hospitality with the Vends and all the Sclavonian races of Germany bore the name of Radegast , apparently the same with Rhadagaisus . 
His principal temple was at Rhetra in Mecklenburg . 
It was adorned with great magnificence . 
The statue of the gold was of gold . 
The names of the gods were cut upon them in Runic characters . 
See the very curious volume on these antiquities Die Gottesdienstliche Alterthumer der Obotriter Masch and Wogen . 
is the modest language of Honorius , in speaking of the Gothic war , which he had seen somewhat nearer . 
transports the war , and the victory of Stilisho , beyond the Danube . 
In good policy , we must use the service of Zosimus , without esteeming or trusting him . 
The date of this law A. D. . 
of the true year of the invasion of Radagaisus . 
Tillemont , Pagi , and Muratori , prefer the preceding year but they are bound , by certain obligations of civility and respect , to St . 
This declaration may puzzle an antiquary , but it is clearly explained by Montesquieu . 
deserved the reputation and name of a flourishing city . 
Yet the Jupiter of Radagaisus , who worshipped Thor and Woden , was very different from the Olympic or Capitoline Jove . 
The accommodating temper of Polytheism might unite those various and remote deities but the genuine Romans ahhorred the human sacrifices of Gaul and Germany . 
M. Florence was reduced to the last extremity and the fainting courage of the citizens was supported only by the authority of St . 
Ambrose who had communicated , in a dream , the promise of a speedy deliverance . 
The apparent contradictions of those writers who variously relate the defeat of Radagaisus , may be reconciled without offering much violence to their respective testimonies . 
Orosius and Augustin , who were intimately connected by friendship and religion , ascribed this miraculous victory to the providence of God , rather than to the valor of man . 
Conscious that he commanded the last army of the republic , his prudence would not expose it , in the open field , to the headstrong fury of the Germans . 
A seasonable supply of men and provisions had been introduced into the walls of Florence , and the famished host of Radagaisus was in its turn besieged . 
relates this story , which he received from the mouth of Pansophia herself , a religious matron of Florence . 
Yet the archbishop soon ceased to take an active part in the business of the world , and never became a popular saint . 
The rhetorical expressions of Orosius , in arido et aspero montis jugo in unum ac parvum verticem , are not very suitable to the encampment of a great army . 
But Faesulae , only three miles from Florence , might afford space for the head quarters of Radagaisus , and would be comprehended within the circuit of the Roman lines . 
, and the Chronicles of Prosper and Marcellinus . 
uses an expression which would denote a strict and friendly alliance , and render Stilicho still more criminal . 
The paulisper detentus , deinde interfectus , of Orosius , is sufficiently odious . 
Note Gibbon , by translating this passage of Olympiodorus , as if it had been good Greek , has probably fallen into an error . 
So in the version corrected by Classen for Niebuhr's edition of the Byzantines , p . 
M. Orosius , piously inhuman , sacrifices the king and people , Agag and the Amalekites , without a symptom of compassion . 
The bloody actor is less detestable than the cool , unfeeling historian . 
justly observes , that Stilicho had probably authority for hanging him on the first tree . 
Marcellinus , adds Mr. Herbert , attributes the execution to the Gothic chiefs Sarus . 
would have furnished the subject of a noble poem . 
might have been worthily surnamed the fourth founder of Rome . 
Orosius and Jerom positively charge him with instigating the in vasion . 
Excitatae a Stilichone gentes , c . 
They must mean a directly . 
He saved Italy at the expense of Gaul The Count de Buat is satisfied , that the Germans who invaded Gaul were the two thirds that yet remained of the army of Radagaisus . 
an elaborate work , which I had not the advantage of perusing till the year . 
As early as , I find the same idea expressed in a rough draught of the present History . 
Such agreement , without mutual communication , may add some weight to our common sentiment . 
Yet if they expected to derive any assistance from the tribes of Germany , who inhabited the banks of the Rhine , their hopes were disappointed . 
The Alemanni preserved a state of inactive neutrality and the Franks distinguished their zeal and courage in the defence of the of the empire . 
Marcomir , one of their kings , was publicly convicted , before the tribunal of the Roman magistrate , of violating the faith of treaties . 
They paid the penalty of their rashness and twenty thousand Vandals , with their king Godigisclus , were slain in the field of battle . 
Provincia missos Expellet citius fasces , quam Francia reges Quos dederis . 
He seems to write from good materials , which he did not understand . 
has preserved a valuable fragment of Renatus Profuturus Frigeridus , whose three names denote a Christian , a Roman subject , and a Semi Barbarian . 
Their flocks and herds were permitted to graze in the pastures of the Barbarians their huntsmen penetrated , without fear or danger , into the darkest recesses of the Hercynian wood . 
This scene of peace and plenty was suddenly changed into a desert and the prospect of the smoking ruins could alone distinguish the solitude of nature from the desolation of man . 
The flourishing city of Mentz was surprised and destroyed and many thousand Christians were inhumanly massacred in the church . 
These idle disputants overlooked the invariable laws of nature , which have connected peace with innocence , plenty with industry , and safety with valor . 
describes the peace and prosperity of the Gallic frontier . 
instead of Albis and expatiates on the danger of the Gallic cattle grazing beyond the Elbe . 
Foolish enough ! In poetical geography , the Elbe , and the Hercynian , signify any river , or any wood , in Germany . 
Claudian is not prepared for the strict examination of our antiquaries . 
Germinasque viator Cum videat ripas , quae sit Romana requirat . 
See in the st vol . 
of the Historians of France , p . 
, , the proper extracts from the Carmen de Providentil Divina , and Salvian . 
The anonymous poet was himself a captive , with his bishop and fellow citizens . 
The Pelagian doctrine , which was first agitated A. D. , was condemned , in the space of ten years , at Rome and Carthage . 
the people did not take any part in a dispute which they could not understand . 
See the Memoires de Guillaume du Bellay , l . 
But those restless Barbarians could not neglect the fair opportunity of the Gothic war , when the walls and stations of the province were stripped of the Roman troops . 
Marcus was the first whom they placed on the throne , as the lawful emperor of Britain and of the West . 
Gratian was the next whom they adorned with the diadem and the purple and , at the end of four months , Gratian experienced the fate of his predecessor . 
The memory of the great Constantine , whom the British legions had given to the church and to the empire , suggested the singular motive of their third choice . 
Yet the authority of Constantine was less precarious , and his government was more successful , than the transient reigns of Marcus and of Gratian . 
The danger of leaving his inactive troops in those camps , which had been twice polluted with blood and sedition , urged him to attempt the reduction of the Western provinces . 
They obeyed the summons without reluctance . 
Elated , however , with this imaginary triumph , the vain deliverer of Gaul advanced into the provinces of the South , to encounter a more pressing and personal danger . 
Sarus the Goth was ordered to lay the head of the rebel at the feet of the emperor Honorius and the forces of Britain and Italy were unworthily consumed in this domestic quarrel . 
The place was ineffectually attacked seven days and the Imperial army supported , in a precipitate retreat , the ignominy of purchasing a secure passage from the freebooters and outlaws of the Alps . 
Whitaker's Genuine History of the Britons , p . 
The sixty six lives of St . 
the ecclesiastical historians , and the Chronicles . 
The Latins are ignorant of Marcus . 
Yet Sidonius might be tempted , by so fair a pun , to stigmatize a prince who had disgraced his grandfather . 
We shall hear of them again . 
Chapter XXX Revolt Of The Goths . 
This domestic insurrection alarmed and perplexed the sovereign of Gaul and Britain and he was compelled to negotiate with some troops of Barbarian auxiliaries , for the service of the Spanish war . 
Such were the feeble arms which decided the possession of the Western provinces of Europe , from the wall of Antoninus to the columns of Hercules . 
He had deserved the esteem , and he soon accepted the friendship , of Stilicho himself . 
Yet if his conduct was hostile , his language was decent and dutiful . 
Comitatur euntem Pallor , et atra fames et saucia lividus ora Luctus et inferno stridentes agmine morbi . 
whose laborious accuracy may sometimes fatigue a superficial reader . 
He interrupts his scanty narrative to relate the fable of Aemona , and of the ship Argo which was drawn overland from that place to the Adriatic . 
to be considered in the odious light , either of a tribute , or of a ransom , extorted by the menaces of a Barbarian enemy . 
had been procured by the intercession of Serena . 
See Palace Of The Caesars Zosimus , l . 
Note From Cicero's XIIth Philippic , . 
M. But the reign of Stilicho drew towards its end and the proud minister might perceive the symptoms of his approaching disgrace . 
The generous boldness of Lampadius had been applauded and the senate , so patiently resigned to a long servitude , rejected with disdain the offer of invidious and imaginary freedom . 
Yet Stilicho might have continued to brave the clamors of the people , and even of the soldiers , if he could have maintained his dominion over the feeble mind of his pupil . 
But the respectful attachment of Honorius was converted into fear , suspicion , and hatred . 
Instead of residing in the palace of Rome , Honorius declared that it was his pleasure to return to the secure fortress of Ravenna . 
His strenuous but ineffectual efforts confirmed the triumph of Olympius and the prudent lawyer withdrew himself from the impending ruin of his patron . 
He came from the coast of the Euxine , and exercised a splendid office . 
His actions justify his character , which Zosimus exposes with visible satisfaction . 
But these praises , which the African saint so unworthily bestows , might proceed as well from ignorance as from adulation . 
Stilicho offered to undertake the journey to Constantinople , that he might divert Honorius from the vain attempt . 
The Eastern empire would not have obeyed , and could not have been conquered . 
Instead of executing a resolution , which might have been justified by success , Stilicho hesitated till he was irrecoverably lost . 
The confederates , impatient of his timorous and doubtful delay , hastily retired , with fear and indignation . 
Olympius , who had assumed the dominion of Honorius , was speedily informed , that his rival had embraced , as a suppliant the altar of the Christian church . 
The base and cruel disposition of the hypocrite was incapable of pity or remorse but he piously affected to elude , rather than to violate , the privilege of the sanctuary . 
Count Heraclian , with a troop of soldiers , appeared , at the dawn of day , before the gates of the church of Ravenna . 
has copiously , though not clearly , related the disgrace and death of Stilicho . 
His family , united by a triple alliance with the family of Theodosius , might envy the condition of the meanest peasant . 
The services of Stilicho are great and manifest his crimes , as they are vaguely stated in the language of flattery and hatred , are obscure at least , and improbable . 
Even the religion of Stilicho was arraigned by the malice of his rival . 
The son of Stilicho , however , was educated in the bosom of Christianity , which his father had uniformly professed , and zealously supported . 
The pride and power of Stilicho constituted his real guilt . 
who expects , in vain , that Pope Innocent I. should have done something in the way either of censure or of dispensation . 
Peter , chief of the school of notaries , and the great chamberlain Deuterius . 
Stilicho had secured the bed chamber and it is surprising that , under a feeble prince , the bed chamber was not able to secure him . 
seems to copy the false and furious manifestos , which were dispersed through the provinces by the new administration . 
See the Theodosian code , l . 
Stilicho is branded with the name of proedo publicus , who employed his wealth , ad omnem ditandam , inquietandamque Barbariem . 
Augustin himself is satisfied with the effectual laws , which Stilicho had enacted against heretics and idolaters and which are still extant in the Code . 
We may observe the bad taste of the age , in dressing their statues with such awkward finery . 
to whom religious enthusiasm has dictated some elegant and forcible lines . 
These are foolish stories yet the charge of impiety adds weight and credit to the praise which Zosimus reluctantly bestows on his virtues . 
He had never bartered promotion in the army for bribes , nor peculated in the supplies of provisions for the army . 
M. Hence , perhaps , the accusation of treachery is countenanced by Hatilius Quo magis est facinus diri Stilichonis iniquum Proditor arcani quod fuit imperii . 
Romano generi dum nititur esse superstes , Crudelis summis miscuit ima furor . 
Dumque timet , quicquid se fecerat ipso timeri , Immisit Latiae barbara tela neci . 
After the praises of Stilicho became offensive and criminal , Claudian was exposed to the enmity of a powerful and unforgiving courtier , whom he had provoked by the insolence of wit . 
If we fairly balance his merits and his defects , we shall acknowledge that Claudian does not either satisfy , or silence , our reason . 
It would not be easy to produce a passage that deserves the epithet of sublime or pathetic to select a verse that melts the heart or enlarges the imagination . 
For the service of his patron , he published occasional panegyrics and invectives and the design of these slavish compositions encouraged his propensity to exceed the limits of truth and nature . 
These imperfections , however , are compensated in some degree by the poetical virtues of Claudian . 
To these commendations , independent of any accidents of time and place , we must add the peculiar merit which Claudian derived from the unfavorable circumstances of his birth . 
all the parts of animated nature contributed their various gifts and the gods themselves enriched their favorite . 
Claudian had neither flocks , nor herds , nor vines , nor olives . 
His wealthy bride was heiress to them all . 
The original inscription , on marble , was found at Rome , in the fifteenth century , in the house of Pomponius Laetus . 
The statue of a poet , far superior to Claudian , should have been erected , during his lifetime , by the men of letters , his countrymen and contemporaries . 
It was a noble design . 
Mallius indulget somno noctesque diesque Insomnis Pharius sacra , profana , rapit . 
Omnibus , hoc , Italae gentes , exposcite votis Mallius ut vigilet , dormiat ut Pharius . 
See his public life in Godefroy , Cod . 
Mallius did not always sleep . 
Yet , in some places , an air of irony and indignation betrays his secret reluctance . 
Note M. Beugnot has pointed out one remarkable characteristic of Claudian's poetry , and of the times his extraordinary religious indifference . 
No one would know the existence of Christianity at that period of the world , by reading the works of Claudian . 
Under the child , and Honorius never became more than a child , Christianity continued to inflict wounds more and more deadly on expiring Paganism . 
Are the gods of Olympus agitated with apprehension at the birth of this new enemy ? They are introduced as rejoicing at his appearance , and promising long years of glory . 
The whole prophetic choir of Paganism , all the oracles throughout the world , are summoned to predict the felicity of his reign . 
His birth is compared to that of Apollo , but the narrow limits of an island must not confine the new deity . 
Non littora nostro Sufficerent angusta Deo . 
They are noble lines , as well as curious illustrations of the times . 
Quae tunc documenta futuri ? Quae voces avium ? quanti per inane volatus ? Quis vatum discursus erat ? Tibi corniger Ammon , Et dudum taciti rupere silentia Delphi . 
Te Persae cecinere Magi , te sensit Etruscus Augur , et inspectis Babylonius horruit astris Chaldaei stupuere senes , Cumanaque rursus Itonuit rupes , rabidae delubra Sibyllae . 
From the Quarterly Review of Beugnot . 
de la Paganisme en Occident , Q. R. v . 
M. National vanity has made him a Florentine , or a Spaniard . 
His first Latin verses were composed during the consulship of Probinus , A. D. . 
Romanos bibimus primum , te consule , fontes , Et Latiae cessit Graia Thalia togae . 
Besides some Greek epigrams , which are still extant , the Latin poet had composed , in Greek , the Antiquities of Tarsus , Anazarbus , Berytus , Nice , c . 
It is more easy to supply the loss of good poetry , than of authentic history . 
allows him to contend with the five heroic poets , Lucretius , Virgil , Ovid , Lucan , and Statius . 
His patron is the accomplished courtier Balthazar Castiglione . 
His admirers are numerous and passionate . 
Yet the rigid critics reproach the exotic weeds , or flowers , which spring too luxuriantly in his Latian soil Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
Part I. Invasion Of Italy By Alaric . 
Manners Of The Roman Senate And People . 
Rome Is Thrice Besieged , And At Length Pillaged , By The Goths . 
Gaul And Spain Are Occupied By The Barbarians . 
The incapacity of a weak and distracted government may often assume the appearance , and produce the effects , of a treasonable correspondence with the public enemy . 
If Alaric himself had been introduced into the council of Ravenna , he would probably have advised the same measures which were actually pursued by the ministers of Honorius . 
Their active and interested hatred laboriously accomplished the disgrace and ruin of the great Stilicho . 
The Gothic prince would have subscribed with pleasure the edict which the fanaticism of Olympius dictated to the simple and devout emperor . 
The series of events , from the death of Stilicho to the arrival of Alaric before Rome , can only be found in Zosimus , l . 
The expression of Zosimus is strong and lively , sufficient to excite the contempt of the enemy . 
Eos qui catholicae sectae sunt inimici , intra palatium militare pro hibemus . 
Nullus nobis sit aliqua ratione conjunctus , qui a nobis fidest religione discordat . 
, and Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
This law was applied in the utmost latitude , and rigorously executed . 
His decent firmness was supported by an artful moderation , which contributed to the success of his designs . 
He required a fair and reasonable satisfaction but he gave the strongest assurances , that , as soon as he had obtained it , he would immediately retire . 
The modesty of Alaric was interpreted , by the ministers of Ravenna , as a sure evidence of his weakness and fear . 
has given a very picturesque description of the road through the Apennine . 
Hine albi , Clitumne , greges , et maxima taurus Victima , saepe tuo perfusi flumine sacro , Romanos ad templa Deum duxere triumphos . 
Besides Virgil , most of the Latin poets , Propertius , Lucan , Silius Italicus , Claudian , c . 
, whose passages may be found in Cluverius and Addison , have celebrated the triumphal victims of the Clitumnus . 
Some ideas of the march of Alaric are borrowed from the journey of Honorius over the same ground . 
The measured distance between Ravenna and Rome was Roman miles . 
During a period of six hundred and nineteen years , the seat of empire had never been violated by the presence of a foreign enemy . 
In the beginning of the war , the Roman people consisted of two hundred and fifty thousand citizens of an age to bear arms . 
Hannibal was astonished by the constancy of the senate , who , without raising the siege of Capua , or recalling their scattered forces , expected his approach . 
The march and retreat of Hannibal are described by Livy , l . 
, , , , and the reader is made a spectator of the interesting scene . 
These comparisons were used by Cyneas , the counsellor of Pyrrhus , after his return from his embassy , in which he had diligently studied the discipline and manners of Rome . 
In the third census , Livy expressly affirms , that the legions were mustered by the care of particular commissaries . 
From the numbers on the list we must always deduct one twelfth above threescore , and incapable of bearing arms . 
See Population de la France , p . 
Compare the remarkable transaction in Jeremiah xxxii . 
, to , where the prophet purchases his uncle's estate at the approach of the Babylonian captivity , in his undoubting confidence in the future restoration of the people . 
In the one case it is the triumph of religious faith , in the other of national pride . 
M. Livy considers these two incidents as the effects only of chance and courage . 
I suspect that they were both managed by the admirable policy of the senate . 
The temporal honors which the devout Paula inherited and despised , are carefully recapitulated by Jerom , the guide of her conscience , and the historian of her life . 
The vanity of the rich , who desired to be noble , was gratified by these lofty pretensions . 
, , ad Eustochium he bestows on Paula the splendid titles of Gracchorum stirps , soboles Scipionum , Pauli haeres , cujus vocabulum trahit , Martiae Papyriae Matris Africani vera et germana propago . 
This particular description supposes a more solid title than the surname of Julius , which Toxotius shared with a thousand families of the western provinces . 
See the Index of Tacitus , of Gruter's Inscriptions , c . 
affirms , that between the battle of Actium and the reign of Vespasian , the senate was gradually filled with new families from the Municipia and colonies of Italy . 
From the triumph of that general , three consulships , in distant periods , mark the succession of the Anician name . 
Se jactare parem sed prima sede relicta Aucheniis , de jure licet certare secundo . 
The earliest date in the annals of Pighius , is that of M. Anicius Gallus . 
Another tribune , Q. Anicius , A. U. C. , is distinguished by the epithet of Praenestinus . 
places the Anicii below the great families of Rome . 
He fairly appreciates the merit of Anicius , and justly observes , that his fame was clouded by the superior lustre of the Macedonian , which preceded the Illyrian triumph . 
The dates of the three consulships are , A. U. C. , , the two last under the reigns of Nero and Caracalla . 
but even the evidence of crimes , if they bear the stamp of greatness and antiquity , is admitted , without reluctance , to prove the genealogy of a noble house . 
with singular respect by the minister of a Gothic king of Italy . 
Fixus in omnes Cognatos procedit honos quemcumque requiras Hac de stirpe virum , certum est de Consule nasci . 
Per fasces numerantur Avi , semperque renata Nobilitate virent , et prolem fata sequuntur . 
The Annii , whose name seems to have merged in the Anician , mark the Fasti with many consulships , from the time of Vespasian to the fourth century . 
and the dislike of the Pagans to the Anician family . 
A. D. , No. , A. D. , No. . 
claritudine generis et potentia et opum magnitudine , cognitus Orbi Romano , per quem universum poene patrimonia sparsa possedit , juste an secus non judicioli est nostri . 
His children and widow erected for him a magnificent tomb in the Vatican , which was demolished in the time of Pope Nicholas V. to make room for the new church of St . 
Peter Baronius , who laments the ruin of this Christian monument , has diligently preserved the inscriptions and basso relievos . 
Two Persian satraps travelled to Milan and Rome , to hear St . 
seems at a loss how to express the glory of Probus . 
See the poem which Claudian addressed to the two noble youths . 
Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
The accurate description of the city , which was composed in the Theodosian age , enumerates one thousand seven hundred and eighty houses , the residence of wealthy and honorable citizens . 
The estates of the Roman senators , which so far exceeded the proportion of modern wealth , were not confined to the limits of Italy . 
Secundinus , the Manichaean , ap . 
See Nardini , Roma Antica , p . 
Quid loquar inclusas inter laquearia sylvas Vernula queis vario carmine ludit avis . 
The poet lived at the time of the Gothic invasion . 
In laxitatem ruris excurrunt , says Seneca , Epist . 
See a judicious note of Mr. Hume , Essays , vol . 
This curious account of Rome , in the reign of Honorius , is found in a fragment of the historian Olympiodorus , ap . 
which fixes the expense of the first praetor at , , of the second at , , and of the third at , folles . 
was equally applied to a purse of pieces of silver , and to a small copper coin of the value of part of that purse . 
In the former sense , the , folles would be equal to , l . 
in the latter , to five or six ponuds sterling The one appears extravagant , the other is ridiculous . 
There must have existed some third and middle value , which is here understood but ambiguity is an excusable fault in the language of laws . 
in Actiaco littore sita possessioris vestra nunc pars vel maxima est . 
M. D. Tillemont supposes , strangely enough , that it was part of Agamemnon's inheritance . 
His language is of the declamatory kind but declamation could scarcely exaggerate the avarice and luxury of the Romans . 
the same Faustinus possessed an estate near Bury , in Suffolk and another in the kingdom of Naples . 
always preferred tenants born on the estate . 
Columella , who received this maxim from him , argues very judiciously on the subject . 
De Re Rustica , l . 
The greater part of the nobles , who dissipated their fortunes in profuse luxury , found themselves poor in the midst of wealth , and idle in a constant round of dissipation . 
has proved , from Chrysostom and Augustin , that the senators were not allowed to lend money at usury . 
that they were permitted to take six percent . 
, or one half of the legal interest and , what is more singular , this permission was granted to the young senators . 
to , the former seems too little for an opulent city , the latter too much for any private sideboard . 
has observed with humor , and I believe with truth , that Augustus had neither glass to his windows , nor a shirt to his back . 
Under the lower empire , the use of linen and glass became somewhat more common . 
Note The discovery of glass in such common use at Pompeii , spoils the argument of Arbuthnot . 
M. It is incumbent on me to explain the liberties which I have taken with the text of Ammianus . 
I have melted down into one piece the sixth chapter of the fourteenth and the fourth of the twenty eighth book . 
I have given order and connection to the confused mass of materials . 
I have softened some extravagant hyperbeles , and pared away some superfluities of the original . 
I have developed some observations which were insinuated rather than expressed . 
With these allowances , my version will be found , not literal indeed , but faithful and exact . 
The greatness of Rome such is the language of the historian was founded on the rare , and almost incredible , alliance of virtue and of fortune . 
The long period of her infancy was employed in a laborious struggle against the tribes of Italy , the neighbors and enemies of the rising city . 
At length , verging towards old age , and sometimes conquering by the terror only of her name , she sought the blessings of ease and tranquillity . 
But the modern nobles measure their rank and consequence according to the loftiness of their chariots , and the weighty magnificence of their dress . 
Sometimes , indeed , these heroes undertake more arduous achievements they visit their estates in Italy , and procure themselves , by the toil of servile hands , the amusements of the chase . 
In these journeys into the country , the whole body of the household marches with their master . 
The main body is composed of a promiscuous crowd of slaves , increased by the accidental concourse of idle or dependent plebeians . 
The rear is closed by the favorite band of eunuchs , distributed from age to youth , according to the order of seniority . 
In the exercise of domestic jurisdiction , the nobles of Rome express an exquisite sensibility for any personal injury , and a contemptuous indifference for the rest of the human species . 
Hospitality was formerly the virtue of the Romans and every stranger , who could plead either merit or misfortune , was relieved , or rewarded by their generosity . 
Whenever the rich prepare a solemn and popular entertainment whenever they celebrate , with profuse and pernicious luxury , their private banquets the choice of the guests is the subject of anxious deliberation . 
Another method of introduction into the houses and society of the great , is derived from the profession of gaming , or , as it is more politely styled , of play . 
is a sure road to wealth and reputation . 
The libraries , which they have inherited from their fathers , are secluded , like dreary sepulchres , from the light of day . 
In those palaces , sound is preferred to sense , and the care of the body to that of the mind . 
Yet this selfish and unmanly delicacy occasionally yields to the more imperious passion of avarice . 
The distress which follows and chastises extravagant luxury , often reduces the great to the use of the most humiliating expedients . 
These vices , which degrade the moral character of the Romans , are mixed with a puerile superstition , that disgraces their understanding . 
It is singular enough , that this vain credulity may often be discovered among the profane sceptics , who impiously doubt , or deny , the existence of a celestial power . 
The minute diligence of antiquarians has not been able to verify these extraordinary names . 
I am of opinion that they were invented by the historian himself , who was afraid of any personal satire or application . 
See Noris Cenotaph Piran Dissert . 
The or coaches of the romans , were often of solid silver , curiously carved and engraved and the trappings of the mules , or horses , were embossed with gold . 
This magnificence continued from the reign of Nero to that of Honorius and the Appian way was covered with the splendid equipages of the nobles , who came out to meet St . 
that this was a new fashion that bears , wolves lions , and tigers , woods , hunting matches , c . 
, were represented in embroidery and that the more pious coxcombs substituted the figure or legend of some favorite saint . 
See Pliny's Epistles , i . 
Three large wild boars were allured and taken in the toils without interrupting the studies of the philosophic sportsman . 
The change from the inauspicious word Avernus , which stands in the text , is immaterial . 
this work at the moment of its execution and his commentators , especially Catrou , have derived much light from Strabo , Suetonius , and Dion . 
Earthquakes and volcanoes have changed the face of the country , and turned the Lucrine Lake , since the year , into the Monte Nuovo . 
See Camillo Pellegrino Discorsi della Campania Felice , p . 
Antonii Sanfelicii Campania , p . 
, Note Compare Lyell's Geology , ii . 
M. The regna Cumana et Puteolana loca caetiroqui valde expe tenda , interpellantium autem multitudine paene fugienda . 
which he applies to a remote and fabulous country on the shores of the ocean . 
See Erasmi Adagia , in his works , tom . 
three curious circumstances relative to the journeys of the Romans . 
They were preceded by a troop of Numidian light horse , who announced , by a cloud of dust , the approach of a great man . 
to mean the porcelain of China and Japan . 
The beautiful faces of the young slaves were covered with a medicated crust , or ointment , which secured them against the effects of the sun and frost . 
This indelicate custom is very frequently mentioned in the epigrams of Martial , and the satires of Juvenal . 
See likewise Suetonius , in Claud . 
, in Domitian , c . 
on solemn occasions , of consulships , marriages , c . 
It was called ludus duodecim scriptorum , from the twelve scripta , or lines , which equally divided the alvevolus or table . 
from Ireland to Japan , pours forth , on this trifling subject , a copious torrent of classic and Oriental learning . 
Marius Maximus , homo omnium verbosissimus , qui , et mythistoricis se voluminibus implicavit . 
He wrote the lives of the emperors , from Trajan to Alexander Severus . 
See Gerard Vossius de Historicis Latin . 
, in his works , vol . 
This satire is probably exaggerated . 
Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
are full of the extortions of the rich , and the sufferings of the poor debtors . 
must have been frequently repeated in those primitive times , which have been so undeservedly praised . 
Non esse in civitate duo millia hominum qui rem habereni . 
to deplore , and perhaps to exaggerate , the misery of the common people . 
of Juvenal , who indignantly complains , Quamvis quota portio faecis Achaei ! Jampridem Syrus in Tiberem defluxit Orontes Et linguam et mores , c . 
by the reflection , that a great part of mankind were in a state of exile , reminds her how few of the inhabitants of Rome were born in the city . 
The forest of Lucania , whose acorns fattened large droves of wild hogs , afforded , as a species of tribute , a plentiful supply of cheap and wholesome meat . 
The administration of the public cellars was delegated to a magistrate of honorable rank and a considerable part of the vintage of Campania was reserved for the fortunate inhabitants of Rome . 
Almost all that is said of the bread , bacon , oil , wine , c . 
, may be found in the fourteenth book of the Theodosian Code which expressly treats of the police of the great cities . 
See particularly the titles iii . 
The collateral testimonies are produced in Godefroy's Commentary , and it is needless to transcribe them . 
fixes the price of wine at about sixteenpence the gallon . 
observes of Lucania , in his barbarous Latin , Regio optima , et ipsa omnibus habundans , et lardum multum foras . 
Proptor quod est in montibus , cujus aescam animalium rariam , c . 
This law was published at Rome , June th , A. D. . 
The utmost debauch of the emperor himself , in his favorite wine of Rhaetia , never exceeded a sextarius , Id . 
and Arbuthnot's Tables , p . 
The walls of the lofty apartments were covered with curious mosaics , that imitated the art of the pencil in the elegance of design , and the variety of colors . 
of the public baths of Rome , long before the stately Thermae of Antoninus and Diocletian were erected . 
The quadrans paid for admission was the quarter of the as , about one eighth of an English penny . 
after describing the luxury and pride of the nobles of Rome , exposes , with equal indignation , the vices and follies of the common people . 
But the most lively and splendid amusement of the idle multitude , depended on the frequent exhibition of public games and spectacles . 
The piety of Christian princes had suppressed the inhuman combats of gladiators but the Roman people still considered the Circus as their home , their temple , and the seat of the republic . 
The impatient crowd rushed at the dawn of day to secure their places , and there were many who passed a sleepless and anxious night in the adjacent porticos . 
The same immoderate ardor inspired their clamors and their applause , as often as they were entertained with the hunting of wild beasts , and the various modes of theatrical representation . 
These representations in modern capitals may deserve to be considered as a pure and elegant school of taste , and perhaps of virtue . 
The vast and magnificent theatres of Rome were filled by three thousand female dancers , and by three thousand singers , with the masters of the respective choruses . 
The expressions of the historian Ammianus are not less strong and animated than those of the satirist and both the one and the other painted from the life . 
The numbers which the great Circus was capable of receiving are taken from the original Notitioe of the city . 
The differences between them prove that they did not transcribe each other but the same may appear incredible , though the country on these occasions flocked to the city . 
Sometimes indeed they composed original pieces . 
Vestigia Graeca Ausi deserere et celeb rare domestica facta . 
The Octavia , ascribed to one of the Senecas , still remains a very unfavorable specimen of Roman tragedy . 
See the dialogue of Lucian , entitled the Saltatione , tom . 
The pantomimes obtained the honorable name and it was required , that they should be conversant with almost every art and science . 
has given a short history of the art of pantomimes . 
It is said , that the foolish curiosity of Elagabalus attempted to discover , from the quantity of spiders' webs , the number of the inhabitants of Rome . 
It should not be forgotten that the form of the city was almost that of a circle the geometrical figure which is known to contain the largest space within any given circumference . 
have indulged strange dreams , of four , or eight , or fourteen , millions in Rome . 
with admirable good sense and scepticism betrays some secret disposition to extenuate the populousness of ancient times . 
In ea autem majestate urbis , et civium infinita frequentia , innumerabiles habitationes opus fuit explicare . 
Ergo cum recipero non posset area plana tantam multitudinem in urbe , ad auxilium altitudinis aedificiorum res ipsa coegit devenire . 
This passage , which I owe to Vossius , is clear , strong , and comprehensive . 
The successive testimonies of Pliny , Aristides , Claudian , Rutilius , c . 
, prove the insufficiency of these restrictive edicts . 
See Lipsius , de Magnitud . 
Tabulata tibi jam tertia fumant Tu nescis nam si gradibus trepidatur ab imis Ultimus ardebit , quem tegula sola tuetur A pluvia . 
Read the whole third satire , but particularly , , c . 
a sum which proves at once the large extent , and high value , of those common buildings . 
and these numbers are ascertained by the agreement of the texts of the different Notitioe . 
See that accurate writer M. de Messance , Recherches sur la Population , p . 
From probable , or certain grounds , he assigns to Paris , houses , , families , and , inhabitants . 
has assumed from similar principles though he seems to aim at a degree of precision which it is neither possible nor important to obtain . 
could not have seriously studied the question . 
The suburbs , he endeavors to show , both up to the time of Aurelian , and after his reign , were neither so extensive , nor so populous , as generally supposed . 
the walls of Servius no longer marked the boundary of the city . 
In many places they were so built upon , that it was impossible to trace them . 
There was no certain limit , where the city ended and ceased to be the city it stretched out to so boundless an extent into the country . 
as rows of shops , with a chamber or two within the domus , or houses of the wealthy , satisfy me as to their soundness of their scholarship . 
Some passages which he adduces directly contradict his theory none , as appears to me , distinctly prove it . 
I must adhere to the old interpretation of the word , as chiefly dwellings for the middling or lower classes , or clusters of tenements , often perhaps , under the same roof . 
On this point , Zumpt , in the Dissertation before quoted , entirely disagrees with M. de la Malle . 
Zumpt has likewise detected the mistake of M. de la Malle as to the canon of corn , mentioned in the life of Septimius Severus by Spartianus . 
On this canon the French writer calculates the inhabitants of Rome at that time . 
M. Zumpt reckons the population of Rome at , , . 
After careful consideration , I should conceive the number in the text , , , , to be nearest the truth M. . 
Such was the state of Rome under the reign of Honorius at the time when the Gothic army formed the siege , or rather the blockade , of the city . 
Actuated , or overawed , by the same popular frenzy , the senate , without requiring any evidence of his guilt , pronounced the sentence of her death . 
That unfortunate city gradually experienced the distress of scarcity , and at length the horrid calamities of famine . 
But these private and temporary donatives were insufficient to appease the hunger of a numerous people and the progress of famine invaded the marble palaces of the senators themselves . 
The important secret was communicated to Innocent , the bishop of Rome and the successor of St . 
Peter is accused , perhaps without foundation , of preferring the safety of the republic to the rigid severity of the Christian worship . 
For the events of the first siege of Rome , which are often confounded with those of the second and third , see Zosimus , l . 
, and Godefroy , Dissertat . 
The mother of Laeta was named Pissumena . 
Her father , family , and country , are unknown . 
Ad nefandos cibos erupit esurientium rabies , et sua invicem membra laniarunt , dum mater non parcit lactenti infantiae et recipit utero , quem paullo ante effuderat . 
The same horrid circumstance is likewise told of the sieges of Jerusalem and Paris . 
For the latter , compare the tenth book of the Henriade , and the Journal de Henri IV . 
speaks of these ceremonies like a Greek unacquainted with the national superstition of Rome and Tuscany . 
Quid agant laqueis , quae carmine dicant , Quaque trahant superis sedibus arte Jovem , Scire nefas homini . 
It was probably designed to revive this ancient festival , which had been suppressed by Theodosius . 
which has not hitherto been observed . 
Note On this curious question of the knowledge of conducting lightning , processed by the ancients , consult Eusebe Salverte , des Sciences Occultes , l . 
is determined not to believe , that a pope could be guilty of such impious condescension . 
The last resource of the Romans was in the clemency , or at least in the moderation , of the king of the Goths . 
The senate , who in this emergency assumed the supreme powers of government , appointed two ambassadors to negotiate with the enemy . 
Yet , before they retired , a short suspension of arms was granted , which allowed some time for a more temperate negotiation . 
As soon as the Romans had satisfied the rapacious demands of Alaric , they were restored , in some measure , to the enjoyment of peace and plenty . 
Pepper was a favorite ingredient of the most expensive Roman cookery , and the best sort commonly sold for fifteen denarii , or ten shillings , the pound . 
See Histoire Politique et Philosophique , c . 
This Gothic chieftain is called by Jornandes and Isidore , Athaulphus by Zosimus and Orosius , Ataulphus and by Olympiodorus , Adaoulphus . 
I have used the celebrated name of Adolphus , which seems to be authorized by the practice of the Swedes , the sons or brothers of the ancient Goths . 
The treaty between Alaric and the Romans , c . 
, is taken from Zosimus , l . 
, , , , , . 
The additional circumstances are too few and trifling to require any other quotation . 
Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
At the distance of fourteen centuries , we may be satisfied with relating the military exploits of the conquerors of Rome , without presuming to investigate the motives of their political conduct . 
The king of the Goths repeatedly declared , that it was his desire to be considered as the friend of peace , and of the Romans . 
But the hopes of peace were disappointed by the weak obstinacy , or interested views , of the minister Olympius . 
The bishop , by remaining at Ravenna , escaped the impending calamities of the city . 
But the court and councils of Honorius still remained a scene of weakness and distraction , of corruption and anarchy . 
Instigated by the praefect Jovius , the guards rose in furious mutiny , and demanded the heads of two generals , and of the two principal eunuchs . 
This rash engagement opposed an insuperable bar to all future negotiation . 
For the adventures of Olympius , and his successors in the ministry , see Zosimus , l . 
, , , and Olympiodor . 
relates this circumstance with visible complacency , and celebrates the character of Gennerid as the last glory of expiring Paganism . 
A. D. , No. , A. D. , No. , . 
It was soon transferred , by flattery , to the Caesars and Tertullian complains , that it was the only oath which the Romans of his time affected to reverence . 
See an elegant Dissertation of the Abbe Mossieu on the Oaths of the Ancients , in the Mem de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Instead of assaulting the capital , he successfully directed his efforts against the Port of Ostia , one of the boldest and most stupendous works of Roman magnificence . 
The Roman Port insensibly swelled to the size of an episcopal city , where the corn of Africa was deposited in spacious granaries for the use of the capital . 
I have softened the expressions of Alaric , who expatiates , in too florid a manner , on the history of Rome See Sueton . 
, edit Reimar , and the lively description of Juvenal , Satir . 
mark the changes of the river , and the efforts of the sea . 
Consult , for the present state of this dreary and desolate tract , the excellent map of the ecclesiastical state by the mathematicians of Benedict XIV . 
and the large topographical map of Ameti , in eight sheets . 
the Port of Rome was an episcopal city , which was demolished , as it should seem in the ninth century , by Pope Gregory IV . 
, during the incursions of the Arabs . 
It is now reduced to an inn , a church , and the house , or palace , of the bishop who ranks as one of six cardinal bishops of the Roman church . 
See Eschinard , Deserizione di Roman et dell' Agro Romano , p . 
Note Compare Sir W. Gell . 
Rome and its Vicinity vol . 
M. For the elevation of Attalus , consult Zosimus , l . 
But the populace , with their usual levity , applauded the change of masters . 
The first days of the reign of Attalus were fair and prosperous . 
In the name of their sovereign , they consented to acknowledge the lawful election of his competitor , and to divide the provinces of Italy and the West between the two emperors . 
Astonished by such examples of domestic treason , Honorius trembled at the approach of every servant , at the arrival of every messenger . 
We may admit the evidence of Sozomen for the Arian baptism , and that of Philostorgius for the Pagan education , of Attalus . 
The visible joy of Zosimus , and the discontent which he imputes to the Anician family , are very unfavorable to the Christianity of the new emperor . 
He carried his insolence so far , as to declare that he should mutilate Honorius before he sent him into exile . 
to the baseness , and perhaps the treachery , of Jovius . 
that watches over innocence and folly and the pretensions of Honorius to its peculiar care cannot reasonably be disputed . 
The favorable intelligence which was received from Africa suddenly changed the opinions of men , and the state of public affairs . 
The troops and officers , whom Attalus had sent into that province , were defeated and slain and the active zeal of Heraclian maintained his own allegiance , and that of his people . 
See the cause and circumstances of the fall of Attalus in Zosimus , l . 
The two acts of indemnity in the Theodosian Code , l . 
, , which were published the th of February , and the th of August , A. D. , evidently relate to this usurper . 
In hoc , Alaricus , imperatore , facto , infecto , refecto , ac defecto . 
Mimum risit , et ludum spectavit imperii . 
The crime and folly of the court of Ravenna was expiated , a third time , by the calamities of Rome . 
But they were unable to guard against the secret conspiracy of their slaves and domestics who , either from birth or interest , were attached to the cause of the enemy . 
At the hour of midnight , the Salarian gate was silently opened , and the inhabitants were awakened by the tremendous sound of the Gothic trumpet . 
In this place the text of Zosimus is mutilated , and we have lost the remainder of his sixth and last book , which ended with the sack of Rome . 
Credulous and partial as he is , we must take our leave of that historian with some regret . 
Adest Alaricus , trepidam Romam obsidet , turbat , irrumpit . 
He despatches this great event in seven words but he employs whole pages in celebrating the devotion of the Goths . 
I have extracted from an improbable story of Procopius , the circumstances which had an air of probability . 
nocte cecidit murus ejus , tom . 
The proclamation of Alaric , when he forced his entrance into a vanquished city , discovered , however , some regard for the laws of humanity and religion . 
Paul , as holy and inviolable sanctuaries . 
Peter if you presume to touch them , the sacrilegious deed will remain on your conscience . 
For my part , I dare not keep what I am unable to defend . 
The learned work , concerning the City of God , was professedly composed by St . 
Augustin , to justify the ways of Providence in the destruction of the Roman greatness . 
applauds the piety of the Christian Goths , without seeming to perceive that the greatest part of them were Arian heretics . 
who were both attached to the Gothic cause , have repeated and embellished these edifying tales . 
According to Isidore , Alaric himself was heard to say , that he waged war with the Romans , and not with the apostles . 
Such was the style of the seventh century two hundred years before , the fame and merit had been ascribed , not to the apostles , but to Christ . 
See Augustin , de Civitat . 
He particularly appeals to the examples of Troy , Syracuse , and Tarentum . 
In the sack of Rome , some rare and extraordinary examples of Barbarian virtue have been deservedly applauded . 
Exasperated by her obstinate resistance , he drew his sword , and , with the anger of a lover , slightly wounded her neck . 
Such instances of courage and generosity were not extremely common . 
Their were other losses indeed of a more substantial kind , and more general concern . 
The sideboards of massy plate , and the variegated wardrobes of silk and purple , were irregularly piled in the wagons , that always followed the march of a Gothic army . 
The edifices of Rome , though the damage has been much exaggerated , received some injury from the violence of the Goths . 
has applied to the sack of Rome all the strong expressions of Virgil Quis cladem illius noctis , quis funera fando , Explicet , c . 
positively affirms that great numbers were slain by the Goths . 
offers Christian comfort for the death of those whose bodies had remained unburied . 
Baronius , from the different writings of the Fathers , has thrown some light on the sack of Rome . 
intimates , that some virgins or matrons actually killed themselves to escape violation and though he admires their spirit , he is obliged , by his theology , to condemn their rash presumption . 
Perhaps the good bishop of Hippo was too easy in the belief , as well as too rigid in the censure , of this act of female heroism . 
who threw themselves into the Elbe , when Magdeburgh was taken by storm , have been multiplied to the number of twelve hundred . 
See Harte's History of Gustavus Adolphus , vol . 
he makes some curious distinctions between moral and physical virginity . 
See Augustin , de Civ . 
The modern Sacco di Roma , p . 
, gives an idea of the various methods of torturing prisoners for gold . 
The historian Sallust , who usefully practiced the vices which he has so eloquently censured , employed the plunder of Numidia to adorn his palace and gardens on the Quirinal hill . 
The spot where the house stood is now marked by the church of St . 
Susanna , separated only by a street from the baths of Diocletian , and not far distant from the Salarian gate . 
See Nardini , Roma Antica , p . 
, , and the great I'lan of Modern Rome , by Nolli . 
convey a false and exaggerated idea . 
to prove that the edifices of Rome were not subverted by the Goths and Vandals . 
He speaks as if he disapproved all statues vel Deum vel hominem mentiuntur . 
They consisted of the kings of Alba and Rome from Aeneas , the Romans , illustrious either in arms or arts , and the deified Caesars . 
See the Roma Antiqua of Donatus , p . 
, and the Roma Antica of Nardini , p . 
The former is more useful for the ancient descriptions , the latter for the actual topography . 
Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
But it was not easy to compute the multitudes , who , from an honorable station and a prosperous fortune , were suddenly reduced to the miserable condition of captives and exiles . 
The nations who invaded the Roman empire , had driven before them , into Italy , whole troops of hungry and affrighted provincials , less apprehensive of servitude than of famine . 
The calamities of Rome and Italy dispersed the inhabitants to the most lonely , the most secure , the most distant places of refuge . 
The most illustrious of these fugitives was the noble and pious Proba , the widow of the praefect Petronius . 
The benevolent profusion with which the matron distributed the fruits , or the price , of her estates , contributed to alleviate the misfortunes of exile and captivity . 
Jerom and his female converts , was crowded with illustrious beggars of either sex , and every age , who excited the public compassion by the remembrance of their past fortune . 
This awful catastrophe of Rome filled the astonished empire with grief and terror . 
So interesting a contrast of greatness and ruin , disposed the fond credulity of the people to deplore , and even to exaggerate , the afflictions of the queen of cities . 
The clergy , who applied to recent events the lofty metaphors of oriental prophecy , were sometimes tempted to confound the destruction of the capital and the dissolution of the globe . 
compares the cruelty of the Gauls and the clemency of the Goths . 
Ibi vix quemquam inventum senatorem , qui vel absens evaserit hic vix quemquam requiri , qui forte ut latens perierit . 
affirms , perhaps by an opposite exaggeration , that many senators were put to death with various and exquisite tortures . 
Augustin , de Civ Dei , l . 
and the Christians experienced no peculiar hardships . 
This edict was published on the th of December , A. D. , and is more reasonable than properly belonged to the ministers of Honorius . 
Eminus Igilii sylvosa cacumina miror Quem fraudare nefas laudis honore suae . 
Haec proprios nuper tutata est insula saltus Sive loci ingenio , seu Domini genio . 
Gurgite cum modico victricibus obstitit armis , Tanquam longinquo dissociata mari . 
Haec multos lacera suscepit ab urbe fugates , Hic fessis posito certa timore salus . 
Plurima terreno populaverat aequora bello , Contra naturam classe timendus eques Unum , mira fides , vario discrimine portum ! Tam prope Romanis , tam procul esse Getis . 
The island is now called Giglio . 
As the adventures of Proba and her family are connected with the life of St . 
Augustin , they are diligently illustrated by Tillemont , Mem . 
and contains a mixture of absurd reasoning , spirited declamation , and curious facts , some of which relate to the siege and sack of Rome . 
in his preface to the second book of his Commentaries on the Prophet Ezekiel . 
There exists in human nature a strong propensity to depreciate the advantages , and to magnify the evils , of the present times . 
In the beginning of the sixteenth century , the manners of Italy exhibited a remarkable scene of the depravity of mankind . 
But they had imbibed , in the first fervor of the reformation , the spirit , as well as the principles of Luther . 
Orosius , though with some theological partiality , states this comparison , l . 
But , in the history of the taking of Rome by the Gauls , every thing is uncertain , and perhaps fabulous . 
See Beaufort sur l'Incertitude , c . 
, de l'Histoire Romaine , p . 
and Melot , in the Mem . 
The reader who wishes to inform himself of the circumstances of his famous event , may peruse an admirable narrative in Dr . 
Robertson's History of Charles V. vol . 
or consult the Annali d'Italia of the learned Muratori , tom . 
If he is desirous of examining the originals , he may have recourse to the eighteenth book of the great , but unfinished , history of Guicciardini . 
The retreat of the victorious Goths , who evacuated Rome on the sixth day , might be the result of prudence but it was not surely the effect of fear . 
An early and passionate attachment determined him to fix his humble dwelling in one of the suburbs of Nola , near the miraculous tomb of St . 
Faelix , which the public devotion had already surrounded with five large and populous churches . 
Nola was not saved from the general devastation and the captive bishop was protected only by the general opinion of his innocence and poverty . 
The prosperity , indeed , which Italy had attained in the auspicious age of the Antonines , had gradually declined with the decline of the empire . 
asserts , that he left Rome on the third day but this difference is easily reconciled by the successive motions of great bodies of troops . 
pretends , without any color of truth , or reason , that Alaric fled on the report that the armies of the Eastern empire were in full march to attack him . 
Ausonius de Claris Urbibus , p . 
The luxury of Capua had formerly surpassed that of Sybaris itself . 
the Tuscans built Capua and Nola , at the distance of twenty three miles from each other but the latter of the two cities never emerged from a state of mediocrity . 
Augustin , Sulpicius Severus , c . 
, his Christian friends and contemporaries . 
to his colleague , his friend , and his disciple , Paulinus . 
I believe that it was such in his own time , and , consequently , that in his heart he was a Pagan . 
The humble Paulinus once presumed to say , that he believed St . 
Faelix did love him at least , as a master loves his little dog . 
See Jornandes , de Reb . 
A. D. , No. , . 
The platanus , or plane tree , was a favorite of the ancients , by whom it was propagated , for the sake of shade , from the East to Gaul . 
See Gray's Poems , published by Mr. Mason , p . 
No sooner had he reached the extreme land of Italy , than he was attracted by the neighboring prospect of a fertile and peaceful island . 
Yet even the possession of Sicily he considered only as an intermediate step to the important expedition , which he already meditated against the continent of Africa . 
The ferocious character of the Barbarians was displayed in the funeral of a hero whose valor and fortune they celebrated with mournful applause . 
By the labor of a captive multitude , they forcibly diverted the course of the Busentinus , a small river that washes the walls of Consentia . 
For the perfect description of the Straits of Messina , Scylla , Clarybdis , c . 
With these pacific views , the successor of Alaric suspended the operations of war and seriously negotiated with the Imperial court a treaty of friendship and alliance . 
Adolphus , assuming the character of a Roman general , directed his march from the extremity of Campania to the southern provinces of Gaul . 
He was sent by St . 
Augustin in the year , from Africa to Palestine , to visit St . 
Jerom , and to consult with him on the subject of the Pelagian controversy . 
Yet he agrees with Orosius in supposing that a treaty of peace was concluded between the Gothic prince and Honorius . 
The retreat of the Goths from Italy , and their first transactions in Gaul , are dark and doubtful . 
who has illustrated , and connected , the broken chronicles and fragments of the times . 
The nuptial gift , which , according to the custom of his nation , was offered to Placidia , consisted of the rare and magnificent spoils of her country . 
See an account of Placidia in Ducange Fam . 
and the Chronicles of Marcellinus and Idatius , seem to suppose , that the Goths did not carry away Placidia till after the last siege of Rome . 
See the pictures of Adolphus and Placidia , and the account of their marriage , in Jornandes , de Reb . 
but Tillemont grows peevish , and swears that it is not worth while to try to conciliate Jornandes with any good authors . 
restrained by subsequent laws , the prodigality of conjugal love . 
The Lombards were somewhat more indulgent they allowed the morgingcap immediately after the wedding night and this famous gift , the reward of virginity might equal the fourth part of the husband's substance . 
Some cautious maidens , indeed , were wise enough to stipulate beforehand a present , which they were too sure of not deserving . 
See Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
Muratori , delle Antichita Italiane , tom . 
We owe the curious detail of this nuptial feast to the historian Olympiodorus , ap . 
One of the successors of Torismond purchased the aid of the French monarch by the promise of this magnificent gift . 
See in the great collection of the Historians of France by Dom Bouquet , tom . 
Gesta Regum Francorum , c . 
The anonymous writer , with an ignorance worthy of his times , supposes that these instruments of Christian worship had belonged to the temple of Solomon . 
If he has any meaning it must be , that they were found in the sack of Rome . 
Consult the following original testimonies in the Historians of France , tom . 
Gesta Regis Dagobert , c . 
The accession of Sisenand to the throne of Spain happened A. D. . 
The , pieces of gold were appropriated by Dagobert to the foundation of the church of St . 
The famous emerald dish , which is shown at Genoa , is supposed to countenance the suspicion . 
de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne sous les Arabes tom . 
It was called the Table of Solomon , according to the custom of the Orientals , who ascribe to that prince every ancient work of knowledge or magnificence . 
After the deliverance of Italy from the oppression of the Goths , some secret counsellor was permitted , amidst the factions of the palace , to heal the wounds of that afflicted country . 
In less than seven years , the vestiges of the Gothic invasion were almost obliterated and the city appeared to resume its former splendor and tranquillity . 
His three laws are inserted in the Theodosian Code , l . 
The expressions of the last are very remarkable since they contain not only a pardon , but an apology . 
des Empereurs , tom , v . 
addresses Rome in a high strain of congratulation Erige crinales lauros , seniumque sacrati Verticis in virides , Roma , recinge comas , c . 
This apparent tranquillity was soon disturbed by the approach of a hostile armament from the country which afforded the daily subsistence of the Roman people . 
When Heraclian landed in the harbor of Carthage , he found that the whole province , disdaining such an unworthy ruler , had returned to their allegiance . 
Orosius composed his history in Africa , only two years after the event yet his authority seems to be overbalanced by the improbability of the fact . 
The Chronicle of Marcellinus gives Heraclian ships and men the latter of these numbers is ridiculously corrupt but the former would please me very much . 
The legal acts performed in his name , even the manumission of slaves , were declared invalid , till they had been formally repeated . 
Yet even this story is some evidence of the public opinion . 
The materials for the lives of all these tyrants are taken from six contemporary historians , two Latins and four Greeks Orosius , l . 
, , Renatus Profuturus Frigeridus , apud Gregor Turon . 
, in the Historians of France , tom . 
, Olympiodorus , apud Phot . 
, , , Sozomen , l . 
, , , and Philostorgius , l . 
, , with Godefroy's Dissertation , p . 
besides the four Chronicles of Prosper Tyro , Prosper of Aquitain , Idatius , and Marcellinus . 
The usurpation of Constantine , who received the purple from the legions of Britain , had been successful , and seemed to be secure . 
The name of Honorius , the proclamation of a lawful emperor , astonished the contending parties of the rebels . 
In the middle of the night , a great body of his perfidious soldiers surrounded and attacked his house , which he had strongly barricaded . 
In this fatal extremity , he complied with the request of his Barbarian friend , and cut off his head . 
The unprotected Maximus , whom he had invested with the purple , was indebted for his life to the contempt that was entertained of his power and abilities . 
The praises which Sozomen has bestowed on this act of despair , appear strange and scandalous in the mouth of an ecclesiastical historian . 
that the wife of Gerontius was a Christian and that her death was worthy of her religion , and of immortal fame . 
almost upon the neck , fiercely rolled his large animated eyes round the field , Constantius then struck terror into his foes , and inspired his soldiers with the assurance of victory . 
The Roman general , instead of expecting the attack in his lines , boldly and perhaps wisely , resolved to pass the Rhone , and to meet the Barbarians . 
On this occasion , Constantius behaved with the magnanimity of a genuine Roman . 
The usurper , who beheld , from the walls of Arles , the ruin of his last hopes , was tempted to place some confidence in so generous a conqueror . 
But he soon experienced that the principles of honor and integrity , which might regulate the ordinary conduct of Constantius , were superseded by the loose doctrines of political morality . 
This allusion may prove , that the ancient tragic poets were still familiar to the Greeks of the fifth century . 
This mischief was peculiarly felt in the provinces of Spain and Gaul , where the principles of order and obedience had been extinguished by war and rebellion . 
Every circumstance is dark and extraordinary in the short history of the reign of Jovinus . 
Adolphus connected himself with the usurper of Gaul and imposed on Attalus the ignominious task of negotiating the treaty , which ratified his own disgrace . 
He attacked Sarus at an unguarded moment , when he was accompanied only by eighteen or twenty of his valiant followers . 
The death of Sarus dissolved the loose alliance which Adolphus still maintained with the usurpers of Gaul . 
Yet the praefect supported a respectable character in the world , and even in the church held a devout correspondence with St . 
with the epithets of Christianorum Nobilissime , and Nobilium Christianissime . 
Il fut pris vif avec des filets , is the translation of Tillemont , Hist . 
Photius , Bekker , p . 
M Chapter XXXI Invasion Of Italy , Occupation Of Territories By Barbarians . 
As long as the defence of the mountains was intrusted to the hardy and faithful militia of the country , they successfully repelled the frequent attempts of the Barbarians . 
The misfortunes of Spain may be described in the language of its most eloquent historian , who has concisely expressed the passionate , and perhaps exaggerated , declamations of contemporary writers . 
Pestilence soon appeared , the inseparable companion of famine a large proportion of the people was swept away and the groans of the dying excited only the envy of their surviving friends . 
At length the Barbarians , satiated with carnage and rapine , and afflicted by the contagious evils which they themselves had introduced , fixed their permanent seats in the depopulated country . 
Many particulars relative to the fertility and trade of Spain may be found in Nonnius , Hispania Illustrata and in Huet , Hist . 
du Commerce des Anciens , c . 
The date is accurately fixed in the Fasti , and the Chronicle of Idatius . 
imputes the loss of Spain to the treachery of the Honorians while Sozomen accuses only their negligence . 
Idatius wishes to apply the prophecies of Daniel to these national calamities and is therefore obliged to accommodate the circumstances of the event to the terms of the prediction . 
Mariana de Rebus Hispanicis , l . 
that the Barbarians had turned their swords into ploughshares and that many of the Provincials had preferred inter Barbaros pauperem libertatem , quam inter Romanos tributariam solicitudinem , sustinere . 
The important present of the heads of Jovinus and Sebastian had approved the friendship of Adolphus , and restored Gaul to the obedience of his brother Honorius . 
Peace was incompatible with the situation and temper of the king of the Goths . 
The unfortunate Placidia , instead of the respectful compassion , which she might have excited in the most savage breasts , was treated with cruel and wanton insult . 
This mixture of force and persuasion may be fairly inferred from comparing Orosius and Jornandes , the Roman and the Gothic historian . 
The murder is related by Olympiodorus but the number of the children is taken from an epitaph of suspected authority . 
The death of Adolphus was celebrated at Constantinople with illuminations and Circensian games . 
It may seem doubtful whether the Greeks were actuated , on this occasion , be their hatred of the Barbarians , or of the Latins . 
He marched in arms from Barcelona to the shores of the Atlantic Ocean , which the ancients revered and dreaded as the boundary of the world . 
The winds and waves again disappointed the enterprise of the Goths and the minds of a superstitious people were deeply affected by the repeated disasters of storms and shipwrecks . 
He exterminated the Silingi , who had irretrievably ruined the elegant plenty of the province of Boetica . 
The Vandals themselves , and the Suevi , yielded to the efforts of the invincible Goths . 
Quod Tartessiacis avus hujus Vallia terris Vandalicas turmas , et juncti Martis Alanos Stravit , et occiduam texere cadavera Calpen . 
Orosius inserts a copy of these pretended letters . 
Tu cum omnibus pacem habe , omniumque obsides accipe nos nobis confligimus nobis perimus , tibi vincimus immortalis vero quaestus erit Reipublicae tuae , si utrique pereamus . 
The idea is just but I cannot persuade myself that it was entertained or expressed by the Barbarians . 
Roman triumphans ingreditur , is the formal expression of Prosper's Chronicle . 
and the chronicles of Idatius and Isidore . 
Such a triumph might have been justly claimed by the ally of Rome , if Wallia , before he repassed the Pyrenees , had extirpated the seeds of the Spanish war . 
The Franks , the valiant and faithful allies of the Roman republic , were soon tempted to imitate the invaders , whom they had so bravely resisted . 
celebrates Bourdeaux with the partial affection of a native . 
a florid description of the provinces of Aquitain and Novempopulania . 
commends the mildness and modesty of these Burgundians , who treated their subjects of Gaul as their Christian brethren . 
Mascou has illustrated the origin of their kingdom in the four first annotations at the end of his laborious History of the Ancient Germans , vol . 
, of the English translation . 
the name of Pharamond is never mentioned before the seventh century . 
Note The first mention of Pharamond is in the Gesta Francorum , assigned to about the year . 
A. Thierry , Lettres l'Histoire de France , p . 
Such was the involuntary reverence which the Roman name still impressed on the minds of those warriors , who had borne away in triumph the spoils of the Capitol . 
ut possessor agelli Diseret Haec mea sunt veteres migrate coloni . 
Nunc victi tristes , c . 
See the whole of the ninth eclogue , with the useful Commentary of Servius . 
Fifteen miles of the Mantuan territory were assigned to the veterans , with a reservation , in favor of the inhabitants , of three miles round the city . 
Even in this favor they were cheated by Alfenus Varus , a famous lawyer , and one of the commissioners , who measured eight hundred paces of water and morass . 
See the remarkable passage of the Eucharisticon of Paulinus , , apud Mascou , l . 
Whilst Italy was ravaged by the Goths , and a succession of feeble tyrants oppressed the provinces beyond the Alps , the British island separated itself from the body of the Roman empire . 
The regular forces , which guarded that remote province , had been gradually withdrawn and Britain was abandoned without defence to the Saxon pirates , and the savages of Ireland and Caledonia . 
The Britons , reduced to this extremity , no longer relied on the tardy and doubtful aid of a declining monarchy . 
They assembled in arms , repelled the invaders , and rejoiced in the important discovery of their own strength . 
resolved to imitate the example of the neighboring island . 
This interpretation was , in some measure , justified by the event . 
After the usurpers of Gaul had successively fallen , the maritime provinces were restored to the empire . 
relates in a few words the revolt of Britain and Armorica . 
Our antiquarians , even the great Cambder himself , have been betrayed into many gross errors , by their imperfect knowledge of the history of the continent . 
The limits of Armorica are defined by two national geographers , Messieurs De Valois and D'Anville , in their Notitias of Ancient Gaul . 
The word had been used in a more extensive , and was afterwards contracted to a much narrower , signification . 
Gens inter geminos notissima clauditur amnes , Armoricana prius veteri cognomine dicta . 
Torva , ferox , ventosa , procax , incauta , rebellis Inconstans , disparque sibi novitatis amore Prodiga verborum , sed non et prodiga facti . 
Valesius alleges several testimonies to confirm this character to which I shall add the evidence of the presbyter Constantine , who , in the life of St . 
Germain , calls the Armorican rebels mobilem et indisciplinatum populum . 
See the Historians of France , tom . 
I thought it necessary to enter my protest against this part of the system of the Abbe Dubos , which Montesquieu has so vigorously opposed . 
See Esprit des Loix , l . 
Note See Memoires de Gallet sur l'Origine des Bretons , quoted by Daru Histoire de Bretagne , i . 
According to the opinion of these authors , the government of Armorica was monarchical from the period of its independence on the Roman empire . 
acknowledges that the Romans finally left Britain in the reign of Honorius . 
I. Zosimus , who alone has preserved the memory of this singular transaction , very accurately observes , that the letters of Honorius were addressed to the cities of Britain . 
Their situation and their hopes would dispose them to affect the dress , the language , and the customs of their ancestors . 
would compel them to deserve the public esteem , by a decent and exemplary behavior . 
I owe it to myself , and to historic truth , to declare , that some circumstances in this paragraph are founded only on conjecture and analogy . 
The stubbornness of our language has sometimes forced me to deviate from the conditional into the indicative mood . 
Two cities of Britain were municipia , nine colonies , ten Latii jure donatoe , twelve stipendiarioe of eminent note . 
This detail is taken from Richard of Cirencester , de Situ Britanniae , p . 
Note The names may be found in Whitaker's Hist . 
M. See Maffei Verona Illustrata , part i . 
Leges restituit , libertatemque reducit , Et servos famulis non sinit esse suis . 
describes a castle , cum muris et portis , tutioni omnium , erected by Dardanus on his own estate , near Sisteron , in the second Narbonnese , and named by him Theopolis . 
See Whitaker's History of Manchester , vol . 
By the pilgrims , who resorted every year to the Holy Land , the monk of Bethlem received the earliest and most accurate intelligence . 
It is reported of three British bishops who assisted at the council of Rimini , A. D. , tam pauperes fuisse ut nihil haberent . 
Some of their brethren however , were in better circumstances . 
Consult Usher , de Antiq . 
It is somewhat remarkable , or rather it is extremely natural , that the revolt of Britain and Armorica should have introduced an appearance of liberty into the obedient provinces of Gaul . 
The emperor Honorius expresses his surprise , that he must compel the reluctant provinces to accept a privilege which they should ardently have solicited . 
Critique de la Monarchie Francoise , tom . 
It is evident from the Notitia , that the seven provinces were the Viennensis , the maritime Alps , the first and second Narbonnese Novempopulania , and the first and second Aquitain . 
In the room of the first Aquitain , the Abbe Dubos , on the authority of Hincmar , desires to introduce the first Lugdunensis , or Lyonnese . 
Chapter XXXII Emperors Arcadius , Eutropius , Theodosius II . 
Part I. Arcadius Emperor Of The East . 
Administration And Disgrace Of Eutropius . 
The Persian War , And Division Of Armenia . 
The place of Constantinople rivalled , and perhaps excelled , the magnificence of Persia and the eloquent sermons of St . 
Chrysostom celebrate , while they condemn , the pompous luxury of the reign of Arcadius . 
The emperor , says he , wears on his head either a diadem , or a crown of gold , decorated with precious stones of inestimable value . 
These ornaments , and his purple garments , are reserved for his sacred person alone and his robes of silk are embroidered with the figures of golden dragons . 
His throne is of massy gold . 
Whenever he appears in public , he is surrounded by his courtiers , his guards , and his attendants . 
The two mules that drew the chariot of the monarch are perfectly white , and shining all over with gold . 
The successors of Constantine established their perpetual residence in the royal city , which he had erected on the verge of Europe and Asia . 
They were ignorant how much this passive disposition enervates and degrades every faculty of the mind . 
to execute the laborious edition of St . 
and his French Dissertation , in the Memoires de l'Acad . 
The navigation of the Nile from Alexandria to Syene , under the tropic of Cancer , required , as it was against the stream , ten days more . 
Under the weakest of the predecessors of Arcadius , the reign of the eunuchs had been secret and almost invisible . 
They insinuated themselves into the confidence of the prince but their ostensible functions were confined to the menial service of the wardrobe and Imperial bed chamber . 
Eutropius was the first of his artificial sex , who dared to assume the character of a Roman magistrate and general . 
While these disgraceful stories were circulated , and perhaps exaggerated , in private conversation , the vanity of the favorite was flattered with the most extraordinary honors . 
This strange and inexpiable prodigy awakened , however , the prejudices of the Romans . 
They are indeed a very elegant and spirited satire and would be more valuable in an historical light , if the invective were less vague and more temperate . 
After lamenting the progress of the eunuchs in the Roman palace , and defining their proper functions , Claudian adds , A fronte recedant . 
Jamque oblita sui , nec sobria divitiis mens In miseras leges hominumque negotia ludit Judicat eunuchus . 
Gaudet , cum viderit , hostis , Et sentit jam deesse viros . 
who observes , that when the paint was washed away the face of Eutropius appeared more ugly and wrinkled than that of an old woman . 
and the remark must have been founded on experience , that there was scarcely an interval between the youth and the decrepit age of a eunuch . 
Eutropius appears to have been a native of Armenia or Assyria . 
His three services , which Claudian more particularly describes , were these . 
He spent many years as the catamite of Ptolemy , a groom or soldier of the Imperial stables . 
Ptolemy gave him to the old general Arintheus , for whom he very skilfully exercised the profession of a pimp . 
after enumerating the various prodigies of monstrous births , speaking animals , showers of blood or stones , double suns , c . 
, adds , with some exaggeration , Omnia cesserunt eunucho consule monstra . 
The first book concludes with a noble speech of the goddess of Rome to her favorite Honorius , deprecating the new ignominy to which she was exposed . 
Mallius Theodorus , whose civil honors , and philosophical works , have been celebrated by Claudian in a very elegant panegyric . 
The usual methods of extortion were practised and improved and Claudian has sketched a lively and original picture of the public auction of the state . 
In the antechamber of Eutropius , a large tablet is exposed to public view , which marks the respective prices of the provinces . 
The different value of Pontus , of Galatia , of Lydia , is accurately distinguished . 
Lycia may be obtained for so many thousand pieces of gold but the opulence of Phrygia will require a more considerable sum . 
The eunuch wishes to obliterate , by the general disgrace , his personal ignominy and as he has been sold himself , he is desirous of selling the rest of mankind . 
Such , continues the indignant poet , are the fruits of Roman valor , of the defeat of Antiochus , and of the triumph of Pompey . 
Some noble blood was shed by the hand of the executioner and the most inhospitable extremities of the empire were filled with innocent and illustrious exiles . 
Among the generals and consuls of the East , Abundantius had reason to dread the first effects of the resentment of Eutropius . 
The destruction of Timasius required a more serious and regular mode of attack . 
The general was arraigned before the tribunal of Arcadius himself and the principal eunuch stood by the side of the throne to suggest the questions and answers of his sovereign . 
It is insinuated that Eutropius despatched a private order for his secret execution . 
certantum saepe duorum Diversum suspendit onus cum pondere judex Vergit , et in geminas nutat provincia lances . 
so curiously distinguishes the circumstances of the sale , that they all seem to allude to particular anecdotes . 
must turn the scale in favor of Pityus . 
has given a very unfavorable picture of Timasius . 
The account of his accuser , the judges , trial , c . 
, is perfectly agreeable to the practice of ancient and modern courts . 
which may be considered as the history of human nature . 
The great Oasis was one of the spots in the sands of Libya , watered with springs , and capable of producing wheat , barley , and palm trees . 
See D'Anville , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
has suggested the idea of comparative fertility , and even the epithet of the happy island The line of Claudian , in Eutrop . 
, Marmaricus claris violatur caedibus Hammon , evidently alludes to his persuasion of the death of Timasius . 
Note A fragment of Eunapius confirms this account . 
Thus having deprived this great person of his life a eunuch , a man , a slave , a consul , a minister of the bed chamber , one bred in camps . 
Yet he seems to suspect that this rumor was spread by the friends of Eutropius . 
For their mutual defence , he contrived the safeguard of a law , which violated every principal of humanity and justice . 
This extreme severity might perhaps be justified , had it been only directed to secure the representatives of the sovereign from any actual violence in the execution of their office . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
, ad legem Corneliam de Sicariis , leg . 
, and the Code of Justinian , l . 
ad legem Juliam de Majestate , leg . 
The alteration of the title , from murder to treason , was an improvement of the subtle Tribonian . 
Bartolus understands a simple and naked consciousness , without any sign of approbation or concurrence . 
For this opinion , says Baldus , he is now roasting in hell . 
I must approve the theory of Bartolus but in practice I should incline to the sentiments of Baldus . 
Yet Bartolus was gravely quoted by the lawyers of Cardinal Richelieu and Eutropius was indirectly guilty of the murder of the virtuous De Thou . 
It is , however , suspected , that this law , so repugnant to the maxims of Germanic freedom , has been surreptitiously added to the golden bull . 
Yet these sanguinary laws , which spread terror among a disarmed and dispirited people , were of too weak a texture to restrain the bold enterprise of Tribigild the Ostrogoth . 
The rumors of the success of Tribigild might for some time be suppressed by fear , or disguised by flattery yet they gradually alarmed both the court and the capital . 
Every misfortune was exaggerated in dark and doubtful hints and the future designs of the rebels became the subject of anxious conjecture . 
Whenever Tribigild advanced into the inland country , the Romans were inclined to suppose that he meditated the passage of Mount Taurus , and the invasion of Syria . 
The approach of danger , and the obstinacy of Tribigild , who refused all terms of accommodation , compelled Eutropius to summon a council of war . 
The conditions of peace were dictated by the haughty rebel and the peremptory demand of the head of Eutropius revealed the author and the design of this hostile conspiracy . 
on the revolt of Tribigild and Gainas . 
See likewise Socrates , l . 
, and Sozomen , l . 
The second book of Claudian against Eutropius , is a fine , though imperfect , piece of history . 
of the fertility of Phrygia , and of the four rivers that produced gold , is just and picturesque . 
Xenophon , Anabasis , l . 
Selgae , a colony of the Lacedaemonians , had formerly numbered twenty thousand citizens but in the age of Zosimus it was reduced to a small town . 
The council of Eutropius , in Claudian , may be compared to that of Domitian in the fourth Satire of Juvenal . 
The principal members of the former were juvenes protervi lascivique senes one of them had been a cook , a second a woolcomber . 
The language of their original profession exposes their assumed dignity and their trifling conversation about tragedies , dancers , c . 
, is made still more ridiculous by the importance of the debate . 
has branded him with infamy and Zosimus , in more temperate language , confirms his reproaches . 
Chapter XXXII Emperors Arcadius , Eutropius , Theodosius II . 
The powers of humanity , of superstition , and of eloquence , prevailed . 
But their implacable revenge still envied him the last moments of a miserable life , and Eutropius had no sooner touched the shores of Cyprus , than he was hastily recalled . 
The consul Aurelian pronounced the sentence and the motives of that sentence expose the jurisprudence of a despotic government . 
is curious and important since it connects the revolt of the Goths with the secret intrigues of the palace . 
See the Homily of Chrysostom , tom . 
, which the exordium is particularly beautiful . 
has mentioned the flight of the eunuch to the sanctuary . 
affects to declare that Eutropius would not have been taken , had he not deserted the church . 
on the contrary , pretends , that his enemies forced him from the sanctuary . 
Sed tamen exemplo non feriere tuo , may be considered as an evidence of some promise . 
is erroneous and corrupt since the fall of Eutropius could not happen till the autumn of the same year . 
The church of the holy martyr Euphemia , situate on a lofty eminence near Chalcedon , was chosen for the place of the interview . 
They resented the injurious precaution and some alarming attempts were made , during the night , to attack and destroy with fire the Imperial palace . 
During the absence of Gainas , his troops were surprised and oppressed seven thousand Barbarians perished in this bloody massacre . 
He was destitute of vessels but the woods of the Chersonesus afforded materials for rafts , and his intrepid Barbarians did not refuse to trust themselves to the waves . 
But a formidable ally appeared in arms to vindicate the majesty of the empire , and to guard the peace and liberty of Scythia . 
represent , though with some various circumstances , the conspiracy , defeat , and death of Gainas . 
who inadvertently uses the fashionable language of the Christians . 
the situation , architecture , relics , and miracles , of that celebrated church , in which the general council of Chalcedon was afterwards held . 
The pious remonstrances of Chrysostom , which do not appear in his own writings , are strongly urged by Theodoret but his insinuation , that they were successful , is disproved by facts . 
has discovered that the emperor , to satisfy the rapacious demands of Gainas , was obliged to melt the plate of the church of the apostles . 
The ecclesiastical historians , who sometimes guide , and sometimes follow , the public opinion , most confidently assert , that the palace of Constantinople was guarded by legions of angels . 
as the vessels with fifty oars but that they were far inferior in speed to the triremes , which had been long disused . 
Yet he reasonably concludes , from the testimony of Polybius , that galleys of a still larger size had been constructed in the Punic wars . 
Since the establishment of the Roman empire over the Mediterranean , the useless art of building large ships of war had probably been neglected , and at length forgotten . 
proceeded from Gallipoli , through Hadrianople to the Danube , in about fifteen days . 
He was in the train of an English ambassador , whose baggage consisted of seventy one wagons . 
That learned traveller has the merit of tracing a curious and unfrequented route . 
Fravitta , according to Zosimus , though a Pagan , received the honors of the consulate . 
On Fravitta , see a very imperfect fragment of Eunapius . 
Eusebius Scholasticus acquired much fame by his poem on the Gothic war , in which he had served . 
Near forty years afterwards Ammonius recited another poem on the same subject , in the presence of the emperor Theodosius . 
On this occasion Eutropius seems to have deviated from his ordinary maxims and his uncorrupted judgment was determined only by the superior merit of a stranger . 
The sixth book of Socrates , the eighth of Sozomen , and the fifth of Theodoret , afford curious and authentic materials for the life of John Chrysostom . 
Besides those general historians , I have taken for my guides the four principal biographers of the saint . 
It is inserted among the works of Chrysostom . 
His vivacity and good sense were his own his errors , in the uncultivated state of ecclesiastical antiquity , were almost inevitable . 
who compiles the lives of the saints with incredible patience and religious accuracy . 
He has minutely searched the voluminous works of Chrysostom himself . 
yet the good taste of the former is sometimes vitiated by an excessive love of antiquity and the good sense of the latter is always restrained by prudential considerations . 
When Chrysostom thundered , from the pulpit of St . 
Sophia , against the degeneracy of the Christians , his shafts were spent among the crowd , without wounding , or even marking , the character of any individual . 
The secret resentment of the court encouraged the discontent of the clergy and monks of Constantinople , who were too hastily reformed by the fervent zeal of their archbishop . 
Chrysostom was naturally of a choleric disposition . 
In his visitation through the Asiatic provinces , he deposed thirteen bishops of Lydia and Phrygia and indiscreetly declared that a deep corruption of simony and licentiousness had infected the whole episcopal order . 
If those bishops were innocent , such a rash and unjust condemnation must excite a well grounded discontent . 
The females of Constantinople distinguished themselves by their enmity or their attachment to Chrysostom . 
Olympias , by equal zeal , displayed in a more pious cause , has obtained the title of saint . 
Sozomen , and more especially Socrates , have defined the real character of Chrysostom with a temperate and impartial freedom , very offensive to his blind admirers . 
Those historians lived in the next generation , when party violence was abated , and had conversed with many persons intimately acquainted with the virtues and imperfections of the saint . 
very seriously defends the archbishop . 
The weakness of his stomach required a peculiar diet . 
Business , or study , or devotion , often kept him fasting till sunset . 
He detested the noise and levity of great dinners . 
He saved the expense for the use of the poor . 
He was apprehensive , in a capital like Constantinople , of the envy and reproach of partial invitations . 
that the number of bishops , who might be saved , bore a very small proportion to those who would be damned . 
This ecclesiastical conspiracy was managed by Theophilus , archbishop of Alexandria , an active and ambitious prelate , who displayed the fruits of rapine in monuments of ostentation . 
Forty five bishops subscribed his sentence . 
Note Tillemont argues strongly for the number of thirty six M The first astonishment of his faithful people had been mute and passive they suddenly rose with unanimous and irresistible fury . 
Theophilus escaped , but the promiscuous crowd of monks and Egyptian mariners was slaughtered without pity in the streets of Constantinople . 
Sophia , to the statue of the empress . 
The short interval of a perfidious truce was employed to concert more effectual measures for the disgrace and ruin of the archbishop . 
Arsacius occupied the church of St . 
Sophia , and the archiepiscopal throne . 
The Catholics retreated to the baths of Constantine , and afterwards to the fields where they were still pursued and insulted by the guards , the bishops , and the magistrates . 
that if the people of Constantinople had found Theophilus , they would certainly have thrown him into the sea . 
a battle between the mob and the sailors of Alexandria , in which many wounds were given , and some lives were lost . 
who acknowledges that Chrysostom had a singular talent to lead the illiterate multitude . 
mentions , in general terms , his invectives against Eudoxia . 
The homily , which begins with those famous words , is rejected as spurious . 
Cicero might claim some merit , if his voluntary banishment preserved the peace of the republic but the submission of Chrysostom was the indispensable duty of a Christian and a subject . 
The mind of the illustrious exile was still independent but his captive body was exposed to the revenge of the oppressors , who continued to abuse the name and authority of Arcadius . 
The succeeding generation acknowledged his innocence and merit . 
At the pious solicitation of the clergy and people of Constantinople , his relics , thirty years after his death , were transported from their obscure sepulchre to the royal city . 
in the language of an orator and a politician . 
They are addressed to a great variety of persons , and show a firmness of mind much superior to that of Cicero in his exile . 
The fourteenth epistle contains a curious narrative of the dangers of his journey . 
to the magnitude of his crimes , may be inflicted on him . 
Jerom , at the request of his friend Theophilus , translated this edifying performance from Greek into Latin . 
His name was inserted by his successor Atticus in the Dyptics of the church of Constantinople , A. D. . 
Ten years afterwards he was revered as a saint . 
Cyril , who inherited the place , and the passions , of his uncle Theophilus , yielded with much reluctance . 
This event reconciled the Joannites , who had hitherto refused to acknowledge his successors . 
During his lifetime , the Joannites were respected , by the Catholics , as the true and orthodox communion of Constantinople . 
Their obstinacy gradually drove them to the brink of schism . 
the emperor was forced to send a letter of invitation and excuses , before the body of the ceremonious saint could be moved from Comana . 
Chapter XXXII Emperors Arcadius , Eutropius , Theodosius II . 
Yet a reasonable doubt may be entertained , whether any stain of hereditary guilt could be derived from Arcadius to his successor . 
The Catholics applauded the justice of Heaven , which avenged the persecution of St . 
Chrysostom and perhaps the emperor was the only person who sincerely bewailed the loss of the haughty and rapacious Eudoxia . 
of thirteen years , three months , and fifteen days , Arcadius expired in the palace of Constantinople . 
We must suppose that his history was a party libel , privately read and circulated by the Pagans . 
is not averse to brand the reputation of Eudoxia . 
His zeal was transported by the order which he had obtained for the destruction of eight Pagan temples of that city . 
originally written in Greek , or perhaps in Syriac , by a monk , one of his favorite deacons . 
, and Godefroy , Dissertat . 
describes , in lively colors , the regular and destructive march of the locusts , which spread a dark cloud , between heaven and earth , over the land of Palestine . 
Seasonable winds scattered them , partly into the Dead Sea , and partly into the Mediterranean . 
The historian Procopius has indeed illuminated the mind of the dying emperor with a ray of human prudence , or celestial wisdom . 
The royal guardian accepted and discharged this honorable trust with unexampled fidelity and the infancy of Theodosius was protected by the arms and councils of Persia . 
As it stands without a parallel in the history of the world , we may justly require , that it should be attested by the positive and unanimous evidence of contemporaries . 
The strange novelty of the event , which excites our distrust , must have attracted their notice and their universal silence annihilates the vain tradition of the succeeding age . 
Although he confesses the prevalence of the tradition , he asserts , that Procopius was the first who had committed it to writing . 
argues very sensibly on the merits of this fable . 
His criticism was not warped by any ecclesiastical authority both Procopius and Agathias are half Pagans . 
Note See St Martin's article on Jezdegerd , in the Biographie Universelle de Michand . 
But the ministers of a child , who is incapable of arming them with the sanction of the royal name , must acquire and exercise an independent authority . 
The safety of the young emperor proved the merit and integrity of Anthemius and his prudent firmness sustained the force and reputation of an infant reign . 
Anthemius was the grandson of Philip , one of the ministers of Constantius , and the grandfather of the emperor Anthemius . 
After his return from the Persian embassy , he was appointed consul and Praetorian praefect of the East , in the year and held the praefecture about ten years . 
See his honors and praises in Godefroy , Cod . 
He saw some Scyrri at work near Mount Olympus , in Bithynia , and cherished the vain hope that those captives were the last of the nation . 
The piety of a Christian virgin was adorned by the zeal and liberality of an empress . 
has dedicated a separate article to the honor of St . 
Pulcheria , virgin and empress . 
Note The heathen Eunapius gives a frightful picture of the venality and a justice of the court of Pulcheria . 
some defect of mind or body must have excluded her from the honors of her rank . 
She was admonished , by repeated dreams , of the place where the relics of the forty martyrs had been buried . 
The ground had successively belonged to the house and garden of a woman of Constantinople , to a monastery of Macedonian monks , and to a church of St . 
Thyrsus , erected by Caesarius , who was consul A. D. and the memory of the relics was almost obliterated . 
Notwithstanding the charitable wishes of Dr . 
it is not easy to acquit Pulcheria of some share in the pious fraud which must have been transacted when she was more than five and thirty years of age . 
The Roman world was deeply interested in the education of its master . 
below the weakness of his father and his uncle . 
Arcadius and Honorius had been assisted by the guardian care of a parent , whose lessons were enforced by his authority and example . 
The ample leisure which he acquired by neglecting the essential duties of his high office , was filled by idle amusements and unprofitable studies . 
There is a remarkable difference between the two ecclesiastical historians , who in general bear so close a resemblance . 
ascribes to Pulcheria the government of the empire , and the education of her brother , whom he scarcely condescends to praise . 
expresses the influence of Pulcheria in gentle and courtly language . 
in borrowing some strokes from the modern Greeks . 
The bishop of Cyrrhus , one of the first men of his age for his learning and piety , applauds the obedience of Theodosius to the divine laws . 
Peter , the right arm of St . 
Stephen , and an undoubted picture of the Virgin , painted by St . 
But this pilgrimage was the fatal term of the glories of Eudocia . 
As soon as the empress perceived that the affection of Theodosius was irretrievably lost , she requested the permission of retiring to the distant solitude of Jerusalem . 
her baptism , marriage , and poetical genius . 
Those authors had probably seen original pictures of the empress Eudocia . 
The modern Greeks , Zonaras , Cedrenus , c . 
, have displayed the love , rather than the talent of fiction . 
From Nicephorus , indeed , I have ventured to assume her age . 
The writer of a romance would not have imagined , that Athenais was near twenty eight years old when she inflamed the heart of a young emperor . 
The Homeric cento is still extant , and has been repeatedly printed but the claim of Eudocia to that insipid performance is disputed by the critics . 
is copious and florid , but he is accused of placing the lies of different ages on the same level of authenticity . 
The two authentic dates assigned by the latter , overturn a great part of the Greek fictions and the celebrated story of the apple , c . 
, is fit only for the Arabian Nights , where something not very unlike it may be found . 
a contemporary , and a courtier , dryly mentions her Pagan and Christian names , without adding any title of honor or respect . 
For the two pilgrimages of Eudocia , and her long residence at Jerusalem , her devotion , alms , c . 
The Paschal Chronicle may sometimes deserve regard and in the domestic history of Antioch , John Malala becomes a writer of good authority . 
The gentle mind of Theodosius was never inflamed by the ambition of conquest , or military renown and the slight alarm of a Persian war scarcely interrupted the tranquillity of the East . 
The motives of this war were just and honorable . 
The mountains of Armenia , and the plains of Mesopotamia , were filled with hostile armies but the operations of two successive campaigns were not productive of any decisive or memorable events . 
Yet the splendid victories which the incredible speed of the messenger Palladius repeatedly announced to the palace of Constantinople , were celebrated with festivals and panegyrics . 
Such events may be disbelieved or disregarded but the charity of a bishop , Acacius of Amida , whose name might have dignified the saintly calendar , shall not be lost in oblivion . 
Theodoret blames the rashness of Abdas , but extols the constancy of his martyrdom . 
Yet I do not clearly understand the casuistry which prohibits our repairing the damage which we have unlawfully committed . 
is the best author for the Persian war . 
We may likewise consult the three Chronicles , the Paschal and those of Marcellinus and Malala . 
A disgraceful treaty had resigned Armenia to the ambition of Sapor and the scale of Persia appeared to preponderate . 
In the beginning of the fifth century , Armenia was divided by the progress of war and faction and the unnatural division precipitated the downfall of that ancient monarchy . 
After the death of Arsaces , the Romans suppressed the regal government , and imposed on their allies the condition of subjects . 
The answer of the archbishop Isaac , whose sanction they earnestly solicited , is expressive of the character of a superstitious people . 
Our king , continued Isaac , is too much addicted to licentious pleasures , but he has been purified in the holy waters of baptism . 
He is a lover of women , but he does not adore the fire or the elements . 
He may deserve the reproach of lewdness , but he is an undoubted Catholic and his faith is pure , though his manners are flagitious . 
This account of the ruin and division of the kingdom of Armenia is taken from the third book of the Armenian history of Moses of Chorene . 
Deficient as he is in every qualification of a good historian , his local information , his passions , and his prejudices are strongly expressive of a native and contemporary . 
relates the same facts in a very different manner but I have extracted the circumstances the most probable in themselves , and the least inconsistent with Moses of Chorene . 
Procopius , de Edificiis , l . 
Theodosiopolis stands , or rather stood , about thirty five miles to the east of Arzeroum , the modern capital of Turkish Armenia . 
See D'Anville , Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
The division of Armenia , according to M. St . 
Martin , took place much earlier , A. C. . 
The Eastern or Persian division was four times as large as the Western or Roman . 
This partition took place during the reigns of Theodosius the First , and Varanes the Fourth . 
to Le Beau , iv . 
This partition was but imperfectly accomplished , as both parts were afterwards reunited under Chosroes , who paid tribute both to the Roman emperor and to the Persian king . 
and the Armenian writers , bequeathed to his two sons , to Tigranes the Persian , to Arsaces the Roman , division of Armenia , A. C. . 
It was then that Theodosiopolis was built . 
This Ardaschir was the Artasires of Gibbon . 
The archbishop Isaac is called by the Armenians the Patriarch Schag . 
M. Moses Choren , l . 
According to the institution of St . 
one hundred and thirty years before Christ . 
who reigned from A. D. to . 
Note Five hundred and eighty . 
He places this event A. C . 
M. Note According to M. St . 
, Vagharschah , or Valarsaces , was appointed king by his brother Mithridates the Great , king of Parthia . 
M. Artasires or Ardaschir was probably sent to the castle of Oblivion . 
M. The duration of the Armenian kingdom according to M. St . 
M Chapter XXXIII Conquest Of Africa By The Vandals . 
Part I. Death Of Honorius . 
Administration Of His Mother Placidia Aetius And Boniface . 
Conquest Of Africa By The Vandals . 
The strange adventures of Placidia gradually renewed and cemented the alliance of the two empires . 
After her return from Spain to Italy , Placidia experienced a new persecution in the bosom of her family . 
The royal exiles landed at Constantinople , soon after the marriage of Theodosius , during the festival of the Persian victories . 
who means , perhaps , to describe the same caresses which Mahomet bestowed on his daughter Phatemah . 
quando subit mihi desiderium Paradisi , osculor eam , et ingero linguam meam in os ejus . 
While the ministers of Constantinople deliberated , the vacant throne of Honorius was usurped by the ambition of a stranger . 
Yet this incident , unfortunate as it might seem , facilitated the conquest of Italy . 
His right hand was first cut off and , after he had been exposed , mounted on an ass , to the public derision , John was beheaded in the circus of Aquileia . 
For these revolutions of the Western empire , consult Olympiodor , apud Phot . 
, , , , Sozomen , l . 
, , and Godefroy , Dissertat p . 
, , in Chronograph , p . 
, , and the Chronicles . 
For a moment , perhaps , his eyes were dazzled by the prospect of unbounded sway but his indolent temper gradually acquiesced in the dictates of sound policy . 
Instead of listening to the voice of ambition , Theodosius resolved to imitate the moderation of his grandfather , and to seat his cousin Valentinian on the throne of the West . 
Theodosius and Valentinian continued to respect the obligations of their public and domestic alliance but the unity of the Roman government was finally dissolved . 
See Grotius de Jure Belli et Pacis , l . 
whether Valentinian received the Imperial diadem at Rome or Ravenna . 
In this uncertainty , I am willing to believe , that some respect was shown to the senate . 
has established the reality , explained the motives , and traced the consequences , of this remarkable cession . 
See the first Novel of Theodosius , by which he ratifies and communicates the Theodosian Code . 
About forty years before that time , the unity of legislation had been proved by an exception . 
and the Western emperor was obliged to invalidate , by a special edict , the law , quam constat meis partibus esse damnosam . 
Amidst the decay of military spirit , her armies were commanded by two generals , Aetius and Boniface , who may be deservedly named as the last of the Romans . 
Their union might have supported a sinking empire their discord was the fatal and immediate cause of the loss of Africa . 
In the melancholy season of her exile and distress , Boniface alone had maintained her cause with unshaken fidelity and the troops and treasures of Africa had essentially contributed to extinguish the rebellion . 
has compared the regencies of Placidia and Amalasuntha . 
He arraigns the weakness of the mother of Valentinian , and praises the virtues of his royal mistress . 
On this occasion , flattery seems to have spoken the language of truth . 
and Renatus Frigeridus , apud Gregor . 
The father of Aetius was Gaudentius , an illustrious citizen of the province of Scythia , and master general of the cavalry his mother was a rich and noble Italian . 
From his earliest youth , Aetius , as a soldier and a hostage , had conversed with the Barbarians . 
For the character of Boniface , see Olympiodorus , apud Phot . 
Augustin apud Tillemont , Memoires Eccles . 
relates the fraud of Aetius , the revolt of Boniface , and the loss of Africa . 
seems agreeable to the practice of ancient and modern courts , and would be naturally revealed by the repentance of Boniface . 
The rapid progress of the Vandals soon acquired a more effectual opposition and the master general Castinus marched against them with a numerous army of Romans and Goths . 
The king of the Vandals is described to have been of a middle stature , with a lameness in one leg , which he had contracted by an accidental fall from his horse . 
His slow and cautious speech seldom declared the deep purposes of his soul he disdained to imitate the luxury of the vanquished but he indulged the sterner passions of anger and revenge . 
Almost in the moment of his departure he was informed that Hermanric , king of the Suevi , had presumed to ravage the Spanish territories , which he was resolved to abandon . 
See the Chronicles of Prosper and Idatius . 
ascribes the victory of the Vandals to their superior piety . 
They fasted , they prayed , they carried a Bible in the front of the Host , with the design , perhaps , of reproaching the perfidy and sacrilege of their enemies . 
Jornandes , de Rebus Geticis , c . 
This portrait , which is drawn with some skill , and a strong likeness , must have been copied from the Gothic history of Cassiodorus . 
See the Chronicle of Idatius . 
See Pagi Critica , tom . 
But his own dexterity , and the discontents of Africa , soon fortified the Vandal powers , by the accession of numerous and active allies . 
describes his army as manus ingens immanium gentium Vandalorum et Alanorum , commixtam secum babens Gothorum gentem , aliarumque diversarum personas . 
and it is probable that the independent tribes did not embrace any uniform system of policy . 
The persecution of the Donatists was an event not less favorable to the designs of Genseric . 
Seventeen years before he landed in Africa , a public conference was held at Carthage , by the order of the magistrate . 
Their numerous congregations , both in cities and in the country , were deprived of the rights of citizens , and of the exercise of religious worship . 
By these severities , which obtained the warmest approbation of St . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Eccles . 
and the whole series of the persecution , in the original monuments , published by Dupin at the end of Optatus , p . 
The Donatist Bishops , at the conference of Carthage , amounted to and they asserted that their whole number was not less than . 
The Catholics had present , absent , besides sixty four vacant bishoprics . 
The fifth title of the sixteenth book of the Theodosian Code exhibits a series of the Imperial laws against the Donatists , from the year to the year . 
Of these the th law , promulgated by Honorius , A. D. , is the most severe and effectual . 
Augustin altered his opinion with regard tosthe proper treatment of heretics . 
among the choice specimens of his common place book . 
has refuted , with superfluous diligence and ingenuity , the arguments by which the bishop of Hippo justified , in his old age , the persecution of the Donatists . 
The Donatists boasted of thousands of these voluntary martyrs . 
Augustin and Theodoret , the Donatists were inclined to the principles , or at least to the party , of the Arians , which Genseric supported . 
A. D. , No. , A. D. , No. . 
The cardinal , though more inclined to seek the cause of great events in heaven than on the earth , has observed the apparent connection of the Vandals and the Donatists . 
In their first interview at Carthage , the imaginary provocations were mutually explained the opposite letters of Aetius were produced and compared and the fraud was easily detected . 
Placidia and Boniface lamented their fatal error and the count had sufficient magnanimity to confide in the forgiveness of his sovereign , or to expose his head to her future resentment . 
His repentance was fervent and sincere but he soon discovered that it was no longer in his power to restore the edifice which he had shaken to its foundations . 
In a confidential letter to Count Boniface , St . 
The Vandals , where they found resistance , seldom gave quarter and the deaths of their valiant countrymen were expiated by the ruin of the cities under whose walls they had fallen . 
Careless of the distinctions of age , or sex , or rank , they employed every species of indignity and torture , to force from the captives a discovery of their hidden wealth . 
The original complaints of the desolation of Africa are contained . 
In the life of St . 
Augustin , by his friend and colleague Possidius , . 
The last picture , which was drawn sixty years after the event , is more expressive of the author's passions than of the truth of facts . 
The generous mind of Count Boniface was tortured by the exquisite distress of beholding the ruin which he had occasioned , and whose rapid progress he was unable to check . 
After the loss of a battle he retired into Hippo Regius where he was immediately besieged by an enemy , who considered him as the real bulwark of Africa . 
The military labors , and anxious reflections , of Count Boniface , were alleviated by the edifying conversation of his friend St . 
L'Afrique de Marmol , tom . 
The adjacent territory is renowned for a pure air , a fertile soil , and plenty of exquisite fruits . 
of more than one thousand pages and the diligence of that learned Jansenist was excited , on this occasion , by factious and devout zeal for the founder of his sect . 
though Gennadius seems to doubt whether any person had read , or even collected , all the works of St . 
has given a large and satisfactory abstract of them as they stand in the last edition of the Benedictines . 
My personal acquaintance with the bishop of Hippo does not extend beyond the Confessions , and the City of God . 
In his early youth St . 
These questions were seldom agitated , from the time of St . 
Paul to that of St . 
I am informed that the Greek fathers maintain the natural sentiments of the Semi Pelagians and that the orthodoxy of St . 
Augustin was derived from the Manichaean school . 
The church of Rome has canonized Augustin , and reprobated Calvin . 
Perhaps a reasoner still more independent may smile in his turn , when he peruses an Arminian Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans . 
Chapter XXXIII Conquest Of Africa By The Vandals . 
The importance and danger of Africa were deeply felt by the regent of the West . 
Placidia implored the assistance of her eastern ally and the Italian fleet and army were reenforced by Asper , who sailed from Constantinople with a powerful armament . 
The count , whose fatal credulity had wounded the vitals of the republic , might enter the palace of Ravenna with some anxiety , which was soon removed by the smiles of Placidia . 
The discovery of his fraud , the displeasure of the empress , and the distinguished favor of his rival , exasperated the haughty and perfidious soul of Aetius . 
The republic was deprived , by their mutual discord , of the service of her two most illustrious champions . 
See Science des Medailles , by the Pere Jobert , tom . 
of , by the haron de la Bastie . 
Note Lord Mahon , Life of Belisarius , p . 
continues the history of Boniface no further than his return to Italy . 
It might naturally be expected , after the retreat of Boniface , that the Vandals would achieve , without resistance or delay , the conquest of Africa . 
Eight years , however , elapsed , from the evacuation of Hippo to the reduction of Carthage . 
This moderation , which cannot be imputed to the justice , must be ascribed to the policy , of the conqueror . 
His throne was encompassed with domestic enemies , who accused the baseness of his birth , and asserted the legitimate claims of his nephews , the sons of Gonderic . 
Those nephews , indeed , he sacrificed to his safety and their mother , the widow of the deceased king , was precipitated , by his order , into the river Ampsaga . 
These difficulties were gradually subdued by the spirit , the perseverance , and the cruelty of Genseric who alternately applied the arts of peace and war to the establishment of his African kingdom . 
He subscribed a solemn treaty , with the hope of deriving some advantage from the term of its continuance , and the moment of its violation . 
See Procopius , de Bell . 
Victor Vitensis , de Persecut . 
The cruelties of Genseric towards his subjects are strongly expressed in Prosper's Chronicle , A. D. . 
, apud Ruinart , p . 
See the Chronicles of Idatius , Isidore , Prosper , and Marcellinus . 
They mark the same year , but different days , for the surprisal of Carthage . 
That wealthy and opulent metropolis displayed , in a dependent condition , the image of a flourishing republic . 
Carthage contained the manufactures , the arms , and the treasures of the six provinces . 
The reputation of the Carthaginians was not equal to that of their country , and the reproach of Punic faith still adhered to their subtle and faithless character . 
was reduced by Genseric into a state of ignominious servitude . 
After he had permitted his licentious troops to satiate their rage and avarice , he instituted a more regular system of rapine and oppression . 
The picture of Carthage as it flourished in the fourth and fifth centuries , is taken from the Expositio totius Mundi , p . 
, , in the third volume of Hudson's Minor Geographers , from Ausonius de Claris Urbibus , p . 
, and principally from Salvian , de Gubernatione Dei , l . 
In the indulgence of vice , the Africans applauded their manly virtue . 
, , and Victor Vitensis , de Persecut Vandal . 
The story of Maria , the daughter of the magnificent Eudaemon , is singular and interesting . 
In the sack of Carthage , she was purchased from the Vandals by some merchants of Syria , who afterwards sold her as a slave in their native country . 
has collected from Theodoret , and other authors , the misfortunes , real and fabulous , of the inhabitants of Carthage . 
They immediately fell into a deep slumber , which was miraculously prolonged without injuring the powers of life , during a period of one hundred and eighty seven years . 
could no longer recognize the once familiar aspect of his native country and his surprise was increased by the appearance of a large cross , triumphantly erected over the principal gate of Ephesus . 
Their mutual inquiries produced the amazing discovery , that two centuries were almost elapsed since Jamblichus and his friends had escaped from the rage of a Pagan tyrant . 
Their legend , before the end of the sixth century , was translated from the Syriac into the Latin language , by the care of Gregory of Tours . 
The hostile communions of the East preserve their memory with equal reverence and their names are honorably inscribed in the Roman , the Abyssinian , and the Russian calendar . 
Nor has their reputation been confined to the Christian world . 
This popular tale , which Mahomet might learn when he drove his camels to the fairs of Syria , is introduced as a divine revelation , into the Koran . 
This easy and universal belief , so expressive of the sense of mankind , may be ascribed to the genuine merit of the fable itself . 
The scene could not be more advantageously placed , than in the two centuries which elapsed between the reigns of Decius and of Theodosius the Younger . 
or , of the aera of the Seleucides . 
Their Greek acts , which Photius had read , assign the date of the thirty eighth year of the reign of Theodosius , which may coincide either with A. D. , or . 
For the homily de Pueris Ephesinis , see p . 
though I could wish that Assemanni had translated the text of James of Sarug , instead of answering the objections of Baronius . 
See the Acta Sanctorum of the Bollandists , Mensis Julii , tom . 
and in fifty volumes in folio , has advanced no further than the th day of October . 
The suppression of the Jesuits has most probably checked an undertaking , which , through the medium of fable and superstition , communicates much historical and philosophical instruction . 
With such an ample privilege , Mahomet has not shown much taste or ingenuity . 
See D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
Their dress declared them to be Romans and the deacon conjectures , that they were reserved by Providence as the future apostles of those unbelieving countries . 
Part I. The Character , Conquests , And Court Of Attila , King Of The Huns . 
Death Of Theodosius The Younger . 
Elevation Of Marcian To The Empire Of The East . 
The Western world was oppressed by the Goths and Vandals , who fled before the Huns but the achievements of the Huns themselves were not adequate to their power and prosperity . 
I have not seen the Lives of Attila , composed by Juvencus Caelius Calanus Dalmatinus , in the twelfth century , or by Nicholas Olahus , archbishop of Gran , in the sixteenth . 
See Mascou's History of the Germans , ix . 
, and Maffei Osservazioni Litterarie , tom . 
Whatever the modern Hungarians have added must be fabulous and they do not seem to have excelled in the art of fiction . 
They suppose , that when Attila invaded Gaul and Italy , married innumerable wives , c . 
, he was one hundred and twenty years of age . 
In this advantageous situation , Rugilas , and his valiant brothers , who continually added to their power and reputation , commanded the alternative of peace or war with the two empires . 
The Romans of the East were not less apprehensive of the arms of Rugilas , which threatened the provinces , or even the capital . 
The public tranquillity was frequently interrupted by the fierce impatience of the Barbarians , and the perfidious intrigues of the Byzantine court . 
Hungary has been successively occupied by three Scythian colonies . 
The Abares , in the sixth century and , . 
The Turks or Magiars , A. D. the immediate and genuine ancestors of the modern Hungarians , whose connection with the two former is extremely faint and remote . 
The Prodromus and Notitia of Matthew Belius appear to contain a rich fund of information concerning ancient and modern Hungary . 
I have seen the extracts in Bibli otheque Ancienne et Moderne , tom . 
, and Bibliotheque Raisonnee , tom . 
considers the question of the origin of the Magyars as still undecided . 
The old Hungarian chronicles unanimously derived them from the Huns of Attila See note , vol . 
The later opinion , adopted by Schlozer , Belnay , and Dankowsky , ascribes them , from their language , to the Finnish race . 
Fessler , in his history of Hungary , agrees with Gibbon in supposing them Turks . 
Mailath has inserted an ingenious dissertation of Fejer , which attempts to connect them with the Parthians . 
that the wars and personages were not the same . 
The death of Rugilas suspended the progress of the treaty . 
The kings of the Huns assumed the solid benefits , as well as the vain honors , of the negotiation . 
They dictated the conditions of peace , and each condition was an insult on the majesty of the empire . 
This justice was rigorously inflicted on some unfortunate youths of a royal race . 
de Peuples de l'Europe , tom . 
xii , xiii , xiv , xv . 
Attila , the son of Mundzuk , deduced his noble , perhaps his regal , descent from the ancient Huns , who had formerly contended with the monarchs of China . 
The religious arts of Attila were not less skillfully adapted to the character of his age and country . 
His brother Bleda , who reigned over a considerable part of the nation , was compelled to resign his sceptre and his life . 
The modern Hungarians have deduced his genealogy , which ascends , in the thirty fifth degree , to Ham , the son of Noah yet they are ignorant of his father's real name . 
Compare Jornandes with Buffon , Hist . 
The former had a right to observe , originis suae sigua restituens . 
The character and portrait of Attila are probably transcribed from Cassiodorus . 
Genealogical History of the Tartars , by Abulghazi Bahader Khan , part iii c . 
Vie de Gengiscan , par Petit de la Croix , l . 
express the popular language and opinions Zingis is styled the son of God , c . 
, and the learned Notes of Lindenbrogius and Valesius . 
For the sake of economy , I have calculated by the smallest stadium . 
A more civilized hero , Augustus himself , was pleased , if the person on whom he fixed his eyes seemed unable to support their divine lustre . 
attempts to clear Attila from the murder of his brother and is almost inclined to reject the concurrent testimony of Jornandes , and the contemporary Chronicles . 
They watched his nod they trembled at his frown and at the first signal of his will , they executed , without murmur or hesitation , his stern and absolute commands . 
Fortissimarum gentium dominus , qui inaudita ante se potentia colus Scythica et Germanica regna possedit . 
an adequate idea of the empire of Attila . 
The Geougen believed that the Huns could excite , at pleasure , storms of wind and rain . 
This phenomenon was produced by the stone Gezi to whose magic power the loss of a battle was ascribed by the Mahometan Tartars of the fourteenth century . 
See Cherefeddin Ali , Hist . 
de Timur Bec , tom . 
The two kings of the Gepidae and the Ostrogoths are profound politicians and sentimental lovers , and the whole piece exhibits the defects without the genius , of the poet . 
In the reign of his father Arcadius , a band of adventurous Huns had ravaged the provinces of the East from whence they brought away rich spoils and innumerable captives . 
Egypt trembled at their approach and the monks and pilgrims of the Holy Land prepared to escaped their fury by a speedy embarkation . 
The memory of this invasion was still recent in the minds of the Orientals . 
They related , during their residence at Rome , the circumstances of an expedition , which they had lately made into the East . 
They encountered the Persian army in the plains of Media and the air , according to their own expression , was darkened by a cloud of arrows . 
But the Huns were obliged to retire before the numbers of the enemy . 
alii per Caspia claustra Armeniasque nives , inopino tramite ducti Invadunt Orientis opes jam pascua fumant Cappadocum , volucrumque parens Argaeus equorum . 
Jam rubet altus Halys , nec se defendit iniquo Monte Cilix Syriae tractus vestantur amoeni Assuetumque choris , et laeta plebe canorum , Proterit imbellem sonipes hostilis Orontem . 
See likewise , in Eutrop . 
, and the strong description of Jerom , who wrote from his feelings , tom . 
Gibbon has made a curious mistake Basic and Cursic were the names of the commanders of the Huns . 
M. See the original conversation in Priscus , p . 
While the powers of Europe and Asia were solicitous to avert the impending danger , the alliance of Attila maintained the Vandals in the possession of Africa . 
Under the faith of the treaty of Margus , a free market was held on the Northern side of the Danube , which was protected by a Roman fortress surnamed Constantia . 
A troop of Barbarians violated the commercial security killed , or dispersed , the unsuspecting traders and levelled the fortress with the ground . 
The refusal of the Byzantine court was the signal of war and the Maesians at first applauded the generous firmness of their sovereign . 
The bishop of Margus , who did not possess the spirit of a martyr , resolved to prevent the designs which he suspected . 
This advantage , which had been obtained by treachery , served as a prelude to more honorable and decisive victories . 
But these slight obstacles were instantly swept away by the inundation of the Huns . 
The public danger and distress could not , however , provoke Theodosius to interrupt his amusements and devotion , or to appear in person at the head of the Roman legions . 
The armies of the Eastern empire were vanquished in three successive engagements and the progress of Attila may be traced by the fields of battle . 
The two former , on the banks of the Utus , and under the walls of Marcianopolis , were fought in the extensive plains between the Danube and Mount Haemus . 
By the destruction of this army , Attila acquired the indisputable possession of the field . 
From the Hellespont to Thermopylae , and the suburbs of Constantinople , he ravaged , without resistance , and without mercy , the provinces of Thrace and Macedonia . 
but the extracts which relate to the embassies are the only parts that have reached our times . 
has examined the cause , the circumstances , and the duration of this war and will not allow it to extend beyond the year . 
Procopius , de Edificiis , l . 
The language of Count Marcellinus is still more forcible . 
Pene totam Europam , invasis excisisque civitatibus atque castellis , conrasit . 
has paid great attention to this memorable earthquake which was felt as far from Constantinople as Antioch and Alexandria , and is celebrated by all the ecclesiastical writers . 
In the hands of a popular preacher , an earthquake is an engine of admirable effect . 
In all their invasions of the civilized empires of the South , the Scythian shepherds have been uniformly actuated by a savage and destructive spirit . 
But these considerations of hope and fear are almost unknown in the pastoral state of nations . 
The firmness of a Chinese mandarin , who insinuated some principles of rational policy into the mind of Zingis , diverted him from the execution of this horrid design . 
Such was the behavior of the Moguls , when they were not conscious of any extraordinary rigor . 
which he already possessed , might annually produce , under a mild administration , , ounces of silver , , measures of rice , and , pieces of silk . 
de la Dynastie des Mongous , p . 
was a wise and virtuous minister , who saved his country , and civilized the conquerors . 
Note Compare the life of this remarkable man , translated from the Chinese by M. Abel Remusat . 
Nouveaux Melanges Asiatiques , t . 
At Maru , , , at Herat , , , at Neisabour , , , . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
I use the orthography of D'Anville's maps . 
It must , however , be allowed , that the Persians were disposed to exaggerate their losses and the Moguls to magnify their exploits . 
Cherefeddin Ali , his servile panegyrist , would afford us many horrid examples . 
and the exact account , which Cherefeddin was not able to procure from the proper officers , is stated by another historian at , heads . 
The ancients , Jornandes , Priscus , c . 
, are ignorant of this epithet . 
The modern Hungarians have imagined , that it was applied , by a hermit of Gaul , to Attila , who was pleased to insert it among the titles of his royal dignity . 
, and Tillemont , Hist . 
It may be affirmed , with bolder assurance , that the Huns depopulated the provinces of the empire , by the number of Roman subjects whom they led away into captivity . 
The estimate of their respective value was formed by the simple judgment of unenlightened and unprejudiced Barbarians . 
The mechanic arts were encouraged and esteemed , as they tended to satisfy the wants of the Huns . 
Chrysostom had converted great numbers of the Scythians , who dwelt beyond the Danube in tents and wagons . 
The Mahometans , the Nestorians , and the Latin Christians , thought themselves secure of gaining the sons and grandsons of Zingis , who treated the rival missionaries with impartial favor . 
The Germans , who exterminated Varus and his legions , had been particularly offended with the Roman laws and lawyers . 
It should seem that the Huns preferred the Gothic and Latin languages to their own which was probably a harsh and barren idiom . 
Philip de Comines , in his admirable picture of the last moments of Lewis XI . 
represents the insolence of his physician , who , in five months , extorted , crowns , and a rich bishopric , from the stern , avaricious tyrant . 
extols the equity of the Roman laws , which protected the life of a slave . 
non disciplina et severitate , sed impetu et ira , ut inimicum , nisi quod impune . 
The Heruli , who were the subjects of Attila , claimed , and exercised , the power of life and death over their slaves . 
See a remarkable instance in the second book of Agathias See the whole conversation in Priscus , p . 
The timid or selfish policy of the Western Romans had abandoned the Eastern empire to the Huns . 
The loss of armies , and the want of discipline or virtue , were not supplied by the personal character of the monarch . 
A large proportion of the taxes extorted from the people was detained and intercepted in their passage , though the foulest channels , to the treasury of Constantinople . 
The revenue was dissipated by Theodosius and his favorites in wasteful and profuse luxury which was disguised by the names of Imperial magnificence , or Christian charity . 
The immediate supplies had been exhausted by the unforeseen necessity of military preparations . 
Nova iterum Orienti assurgit ruina . 
quum nulla ab Cocidentalibus ferrentur auxilia . 
Prosper Tyro composed his Chronicle in the West and his observation implies a censure . 
Five in the last edition of Priscus . 
p M According to the description , or rather invective , of Chrysostom , an auction of Byzantine luxury must have been very productive . 
Count Marcellinus dispenses some comfort , by observing , . 
They demanded the restitution of some shepherds , who , with their cattle , had been accidentally surprised . 
This prudent and officious dissimulation may be condemned , or excused , by the casuists , as they incline to the rigid decree of St . 
Augustin , or to the milder sentiment of St . 
there is one of the name of Esimontou , whose position is doubtfully marked , in the neighborhood of Anchialus and the Euxine Sea . 
Augustin , who labored , by different expedients , to reconcile the seeming quarrel of the two apostles , St . 
which has been frequently agitated by Catholic and Protestant divines , and even by lawyers and philosophers of every age . 
The Imperial treasury was exhausted , to procure the friendly offices of the ambassadors and their principal attendants , whose favorable report might conduce to the maintenance of peace . 
has delineated , with a bold and easy pencil , some of the most striking circumstances of the pride of Attila , and the disgrace of the Romans . 
He deserves the praise of having read the Fragments of Priscus , which have been too much disregarded . 
has too plainly distinguished two persons of the name of Constantius , who , from the similar events of their lives , might have been easily confounded . 
He executed a civil and military commission in the Eastern provinces and his death was lamented by the savages of Aethiopia , whose incursions he had repressed . 
Priscus was a native of Panium in Thrace , and deserved , by his eloquence , an honorable place among the sophists of the age . 
His Byzantine history , which related to his own times , was comprised in seven books . 
Notwithstanding the charitable judgment of the critics , I suspect that Priscus was a Pagan . 
Note Niebuhr concurs in this opinion . 
Life of Priscus in the new edition of the Byzantine historians . 
As the remains of Sardica were still included within the limits of the empire , it was incumbent on the Romans to exercise the duties of hospitality . 
They provided , with the assistance of the provincials , a sufficient number of sheep and oxen , and invited the Huns to a splendid , or at least , a plentiful supper . 
But the harmony of the entertainment was soon disturbed by mutual prejudice and indiscretion . 
When they rose from table , the Imperial ambassador presented Edecon and Orestes with rich gifts of silk robes and Indian pearls , which they thankfully accepted . 
After this entertainment , they travelled about one hundred miles from Sardica to Naissus . 
No sooner had Maximin advanced about two miles from the Danube , than he began to experience the fastidious insolence of the conqueror . 
He was sternly forbid to pitch his tents in a pleasant valley , lest he should infringe the distant awe that was due to the royal mansion . 
which should not be revealed to the gods themselves , had been treacherously disclosed to the public enemy . 
The ambassadors had encamped on the edge of a large morass . 
M. ! He was forbidden to pitch his tents on an eminence because Attila's were below on the plain . 
In the same manner the Sarts and Tadgics provide for their own subsistence , and for that of the Usbec Tartars , their lazy and rapacious sovereigns . 
See Genealogical History of the Tartars , p . 
The wooden houses of the more illustrious Huns were built and adorned with rude magnificence , according to the rank , the fortune , or the taste of the proprietors . 
They seem to have been distributed with some degree of order and symmetry and each spot became more honorable as it approached the person of the sovereign . 
The palace of Attila , which surpassed all other houses in his dominions , was built entirely of wood , and covered an ample space of ground . 
The outward enclosure was a lofty wall , or palisade , of smooth square timber , intersected with high towers , but intended rather for ornament than defence . 
This wall , which seems to have encircled the declivity of a hill , comprehended a great variety of wooden edifices , adapted to the uses of royalty . 
After passing through the guards , who watched before the gate , the ambassadors were introduced into the private apartment of Cerca . 
The monarch alone assumed the superior pride of still adhering to the simplicity of his Scythian ancestors . 
The dress of Attila , his arms , and the furniture of his horse , were plain , without ornament , and of a single color . 
The royal table was served in wooden cups and platters flesh was his only food and the conqueror of the North never tasted the luxury of bread . 
It is evident that Priscus passed the Danube and the Teyss , and that he did not reach the foot of the Carpathian hills . 
Agria , Tokay , and Jazberin , are situated in the plains circumscribed by this definition . 
a learned Hungarian , has preferred Jazberin , a place about thirty six miles westward of Buda and the Danube . 
Martin considers the narrative of Priscus , the only authority of M. de Buat and of Gibbon , too vague to fix the position of Attila's camp . 
It is worthy of remark , that in the Hungarian traditions collected by Thwrocz , l . 
, precisely on the left branch of the Danube , where Attila's residence was situated , in the same parallel stands the present city of Buda , in Hungarian Buduvur . 
It is for this reason that this city has retained for a long time among the Germans of Hungary the name of Etzelnburgh or Etzela burgh , i . 
, the city of Attila . 
I see no good reason for not acceding to the relations of the Hungarian historians . 
Denys , in the th century . 
blended the manners of Scythia with the magnificence and luxury of Hindostan . 
The name of this queen occurs three times in Priscus , and always in a different form Cerca , Creca , and Rheca . 
The Scandinavian poets have preserved her memory under the name of Herkia . 
See Vie de Gengiscan , v . 
When Attila first gave audience to the Roman ambassadors on the banks of the Danube , his tent was encompassed with a formidable guard . 
The monarch himself was seated in a wooden chair . 
and leave his body to the vultures . 
The Barbarian condescended , by producing an accurate list , to expose the bold falsehood of Vigilius , who had affirmed that no more than seventeen deserters could be found . 
The entrance of Attila into the royal village was marked by a very singular ceremony . 
A numerous troop of women came out to meet their hero and their king . 
The Romans , both of the East and of the West , were twice invited to the banquets , where Attila feasted with the princes and nobles of Scythia . 
Yet before they retired , they enjoyed a singular opportunity of observing the manners of the nation in their convivial amusements . 
Two Scythians stood before the couch of Attila , and recited the verses which they had composed , to celebrate his valor and his victories . 
This entertainment , which might be considered as a school of military virtue , was succeeded by a farce , that debased the dignity of human nature . 
Two days afterwards , the ambassadors received a second invitation and they had reason to praise the politeness , as well as the hospitality , of Attila . 
has long promised him a rich wife Constantius must not be disappointed nor should a Roman emperor deserve the name of liar . 
In either case the construction is imperfect a good Greek writer would have introduced an article to determine the sense . 
Nor is it quite clear , whether Scythian usage is adduced to excuse the polygamy , or a marriage , which would be considered incestuous in other countries . 
The Latin version has carefully preserved the ambiguity , filiam Escam uxorem . 
to express myself without hesitation . 
M. This passage is remarkable from the connection of the name of Attila with that extraordinary cycle of poetry , which is found in different forms in almost all the Teutonic languages . 
A Latin poem , de prima expeditione Attilae , Regis Hunnorum , in Gallias , was published in the year , by Fischer at Leipsic . 
It contains , with the continuation , lines . 
It contains little which can be supposed historical , and still less which is characteristic concerning Attila . 
The main subject of the poem is the escape of Walther and Heldgund from the camp of Attila , and the combat between Walther and Gunthar , king of the Franks . 
with his twelve peers , among whom is Hagen . 
Walther had been betrayed while he passed through Worms , the city of the Frankish king . 
by paying for his ferry over the Rhine with some strange fish , which he had caught during his flight , and which were unknown in the waters of the Rhine . 
Gunthar was desirous of plundering him of the treasure , which Walther had carried off from the camp of Attila . 
The author of this poem is unknown , nor can I , on the vague and rather doubtful allusion to Thule , as Iceland , venture to assign its date . 
It was , evidently , recited in a monastery , as appears by the first line and no doubt composed there . 
The faults of metre would point out a late date and it may have been formed upon some local tradition , as Walther , the hero , seems to have turned monk . 
This poem , however , in its character and its incidents , bears no relation to the Teutonic cycle , of which the Nibelungen Lied is the most complete form . 
In this , in the Heldenbuch , in some of the Danish Sagas . 
in strife with the Burgundians and the Franks . 
With these appears , by a poetic anachronism , Dietrich of Berne . 
the celebrated Ostrogothic king and many other very singular coincidences of historic names , which appear in the poems . 
I think I find some traces of that influence in the Latin poem , though strained through the imagination of a monk . 
Scott himself contributed a considerable , no doubt far the most valuable , part to the work . 
it was the custom of the Scythians , when they indulged in the pleasures of the table , to awaken their languid courage by the martial harmony of twanging their bow strings . 
But the Roman ambassador was ignorant of the treacherous design , which had been concealed under the mask of the public faith . 
Under the name of ransom , or confiscation , the rapacious king of the Huns accepted two hundred pounds of gold for the life of a traitor , whom he disdained to punish . 
He pointed his just indignation against a nobler object . 
His ambassadors , Eslaw and Orestes , were immediately despatched to Constantinople , with a peremptory instruction , which it was much safer for them to execute than to disobey . 
But Theodosius has forfeited his paternal honors , and , by consenting to pay tribute has degraded himself to the condition of a slave . 
M. de Tillemont has very properly given the succession of chamberlains , who reigned in the name of Theodosius . 
, , , , , , . 
by the death of Theodosius . 
The emperor Theodosius did not long survive the most humiliating circumstance of an inglorious life . 
No sooner had Pulcheria ascended the throne , than she indulged her own and the public resentment , by an act of popular justice . 
She gave her hand to Marcian , a senator , about sixty years of age and the nominal husband of Pulcheria was solemnly invested with the Imperial purple . 
The zeal which he displayed for the orthodox creed , as it was established by the council of Chalcedon , would alone have inspired the grateful eloquence of the Catholics . 
sua cum avaritia interemptus est . 
She abandoned the eunuch to the pious revenge of a son , whose father had suffered at his instigation . 
Note Might not the execution of Chrysaphius have been a sacrifice to avert the anger of Attila , whose assassination the eunuch had attempted to contrive ? M. de Bell . 
Leo and the Catholics have bestowed on Marcian , are diligently transcribed by Baronius , as an encouragement for future princes . 
Chapter XXXV Invasion By Attila . 
Part I. Invasion Of Gaul By Attila . 
He Is Repulsed By Aetius And The Visigoths . 
Attila Invades And Evacuates Italy . 
The Deaths Of Attila , Aetius , And Valentinian The Third . 
This temperate courage dictated his reply to the demands of Attila , who insolently pressed the payment of the annual tribute . 
He threatened to chastise the rash successor of Theodosius but he hesitated whether he should first direct his invincible arms against the Eastern or the Western empire . 
While mankind awaited his decision with awful suspense , he sent an equal defiance to the courts of Ravenna and Constantinople and his ministers saluted the two emperors with the same haughty declaration . 
Attila , my lord , and thy lord , commands thee to provide a palace for his immediate reception . 
The second book of the Histoire Critique de l'Etablissement de la Monarchie Francoise tom . 
, throws great light on the state of Gaul , when it was invaded by Attila but the ingenious author , the Abbe Dubos , too often bewilders himself in system and conjecture . 
After the death of his rival Boniface , Aetius had prudently retired to the tents of the Huns and he was indebted to their alliance for his safety and his restoration . 
He could patiently endure the want of food , or of sleep and his mind and body were alike capable of the most laborious efforts . 
He possessed the genuine courage that can despise not only dangers , but injuries and it was impossible either to corrupt , or deceive , or intimidate the firm integrity of his soul . 
The Barbarians , who had seated themselves in the Western provinces , were insensibly taught to respect the faith and valor of the patrician Aetius . 
He soothed their passions , consulted their prejudices , balanced their interests , and checked their ambition . 
His adventures in Constantinople , in Sicily , Gaul , Spain , and Africa , are faintly marked in the Chronicles of Marcellinus and Idatius . 
In his distress he was always followed by a numerous train since he could ravage the Hellespont and Propontis , and seize the city of Barcelona . 
Reipublicae Romanae singulariter natus , qui superbiam Suevorum , Francorumque barbariem immensis caedibus servire Imperio Romano coegisset . 
Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
Some valuable fragments of a poetical panegyric on Aetius by Merobaudes , a Spaniard , have been recovered from a palimpsest MS . 
by the sagacity and industry of Niebuhr . 
They have been reprinted in the new edition of the Byzantine Historians . 
The poet speaks in glowing terms of the long peace enjoyed under the administration of Aetius . 
The verses are very spirited . 
The poet was rewarded by a statue publicly dedicated to his honor in Rome . 
Danuvii cum pace redit , Tanaimque furore Exuit , et nigro candentes aethere terras Marte suo caruisse jubet . 
Dedit otia ferro Caucasus , et saevi condemnant praelia reges . 
Addidit hiberni famulantia foedera Rhenus Orbis . 
! cum Scythicis succumberet ensibus orbis , Telaque Tarpeias premerent Arctoa secures , Hostilem fregit rabiem , pignus quesuperbi Foederis et mundi pretium fuit . 
Hinc modo voti Rata fides , validis quod dux premat impiger armis Edomuit quos pace puer bellumque repressit Ignarus quid bella forent . 
Stupuere feroces In tenero jam membra Getae . 
M. From a principle of interest , as well as gratitude , Aetius assiduously cultivated the alliance of the Huns . 
By the specious professions of gratitude and voluntary attachment , the patrician might disguise his apprehensions of the Scythian conqueror , who pressed the two empires with his innumerable armies . 
His demands were obeyed or eluded . 
Two colonies of these Barbarians were judiciously fixed in the territories of Valens and Orleans and their active cavalry secured the important passages of the Rhone and of the Loire . 
These savage allies were not indeed less formidable to the subjects than to the enemies of Rome . 
Their original settlement was enforced with the licentious violence of conquest and the province through which they marched was exposed to all the calamities of a hostile invasion . 
The embassy consisted of Count Romulus of Promotus , president of Noricum and of Romanus , the military duke . 
They were accompanied by Tatullus , an illustrious citizen of Petovio , in the same province , and father of Orestes , who had married the daughter of Count Romulus . 
Deserta Valentinae urbis rura Alanis partienda traduntur . 
in Historiens de France , tom . 
A few lines afterwards , Prosper observes , that lands in the ulterior Gaul were assigned to the Alani . 
the reasonable supposition of two colonies or garrisons of Alani will confirm his arguments , and remove his objections . 
another poet , Paulinus of Perigord , confirms the complaint Nam socium vix ferre queas , qui durior hoste . 
Yet Theodoric still watched , and eagerly seized , the favorable moment of renewing his hostile attempts . 
The Goths besieged Narbonne , while the Belgic provinces were invaded by the Burgundians and the public safety was threatened on every side by the apparent union of the enemies of Rome . 
On every side , the activity of Aetius , and his Scythian cavalry , opposed a firm and successful resistance . 
Twenty thousand Burgundians were slain in battle and the remains of the nation humbly accepted a dependent seat in the mountains of Savoy . 
The siege was immediately raised and the more decisive victory , which is ascribed to the personal conduct of Aetius himself , was marked with the blood of eight thousand Goths . 
His soldiers , animated with martial and religious enthusiasm , assaulted the camp of Litorius . 
The conflict was obstinate the slaughter was mutual . 
Theodoric , king of the Visigoths , appears to have deserved the love of his subjects , the confidence of his allies , and the esteem of mankind . 
The queen of the Suevi bewailed the death of a husband inhumanly massacred by her brother . 
The princess of the Vandals was the victim of a jealous tyrant , whom she called her father . 
His rich gifts and pressing solicitations inflamed the ambition of Attila and the designs of Aetius and Theodoric were prevented by the invasion of Gaul . 
This character , applicable only to the great Alaric , establishes the genealogy of the Gothic kings , which has hitherto been unnoticed . 
D'Anville , Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
Sitionius then proceeds , according to the duty of a panegyrist , to transfer the whole merit from Aetius to his minister Avitus . 
revered , in the person of Avitus , the character of his preceptor . 
Mihi Romula dudum Per te jura placent parvumque ediscere jussit Ad tua verba pater , docili quo prisca Maronis Carmine molliret Scythicos mihi pagina mores . 
Our authorities for the reign of Theodoric I. are , Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
, , and the Chronicles of Idatius , and the two Prospers , inserted in the historians of France , tom . 
To these we may add Salvian de Gubernatione Dei , l . 
, , , and the panegyric of Avitus , by Sidonius . 
The Franks , whose monarchy was still confined to the neighborhood of the Lower Rhine , had wisely established the right of hereditary succession in the noble family of the Merovingians . 
These princes were elevated on a buckler , the symbol of military command and the royal fashion of long hair was the ensign of their birth and dignity . 
The death of Clodion , after a reign of twenty years , exposed his kingdom to the discord and ambition of his two sons . 
See Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
This German custom , which may be traced from Tacitus to Gregory of Tours , was at length adopted by the emperors of Constantinople . 
of the tenth century , Montfaucon has delineated the representation of a similar ceremony , which the ignorance of the age had applied to King David . 
See Monumens de la Monarchie Francoise , tom . 
crinium flagellis per terga dimissis , c . 
and such pictures , though coarsely drawn , have a real and intrinsic value . 
Some geographers have placed Dispargum on the German side of the Rhine . 
See a note of the Benedictine Editors , to the Historians of France , tom . 
The Carbonarian wood was that part of the great forest of the Ardennes which lay between the Escaut , or Scheldt , and the Meuse . 
ab Hincmar , in tom . 
Francus qua Cloio patentes Atrebatum terras pervaserat . 
Majorian The precise spot was a town or village , called Vicus Helena and both the name and place are discovered by modern geographers at Lens See Vales . 
Longuerue , Description de la France tom . 
See a vague account of the action in Sidonius . 
has expressed , in vague and declamatory language , the misfortunes of these three cities , which are distinctly ascertained by the learned Mascou , Hist . 
of the Ancient Germans , ix . 
seem to prove that the succession of Clodion was disputed by his two sons , and that the younger was Meroveus , the father of Childeric . 
Note The relationship of Meroveus to Clodion is extremely doubtful . 
By some he is called an illegitimate son by others merely of his race . 
, in Sismondi , Hist . 
Under the Merovingian race , the throne was hereditary but all the sons of the deceased monarch were equally entitled to their share of his treasures and territories . 
See the Dissertations of M. de Foncemagne , in the sixth and eighth volumes of the Memoires de l'Academie . 
Chapter XXXV Invasion By Attila . 
Her impatience of long and hopeless celibacy urged her to embrace a strange and desperate resolution . 
The name of Attila was familiar and formidable at Constantinople and his frequent embassies entertained a perpetual intercourse between his camp and the Imperial palace . 
The invasion of Gaul was preceded , and justified , by a formal demand of the princess Honoria , with a just and equal share of the Imperial patrimony . 
A firm , but temperate , refusal was communicated to his ambassadors . 
See Priscus , p , , . 
The adventures of Honoria are imperfectly related by Jornandes , de Successione Regn . 
The kings and nations of Germany and Scythia , from the Volga perhaps to the Danube , obeyed the warlike summons of Attila . 
The consternation of Gaul was universal and the various fortunes of its cities have been adorned by tradition with martyrdoms and miracles . 
Troyes was saved by the merits of St . 
Servatius was removed from the world , that he might not behold the ruin of Tongres and the prayers of St . 
Genevieve diverted the march of Attila from the neighborhood of Paris . 
Stephen marked the place where it formerly stood . 
The pastoral diligence of Anianus , a bishop of primitive sanctity and consummate prudence , exhausted every art of religious policy to support their courage , till the arrival of the expected succors . 
Anianus , who anxiously counted the days and hours , despatched a trusty messenger to observe , from the rampari , the face of the distant country . 
It is the aid of God ! exclaimed the bishop , in a tone of pious confidence and the whole multitude repeated after him , It is the aid of God . 
Exegeras mihi , ut promitterem tibi , Attilae bellum stylo me posteris intimaturum . 
coeperam scribere , sed operis arrepti fasce perspecto , taeduit inchoasse . 
Subito cum rupta tumultu Barbaries totas in te transfuderat Arctos , Gallia . 
Pugnacem Rugum comitante Gelono , Gepida trux sequitur Scyrum Burgundio cogit Chunus , Bellonotus , Neurus , Basterna , Toringus , Bructerus , ulvosa vel quem Nicer abluit unda Prorumpit Francus . 
Cecidit cito secta bipenni Hercynia in lintres , et Rhenum texuit alno . 
Et jam terrificis diffuderat Attila turmis In campos se , Belga , tuos . 
who has sometimes abridged , and sometimes transcribed , the larger history of Cassiodorus . 
Jornandes , a quotation which it would be superfluous to repeat , may be corrected and illustrated by Gregory of Tours , l . 
, , , and the Chronicles of Idatius , Isidore , and the two Prospers . 
which often contradicts the genuine text of the Gallician bishop . 
The ancient legendaries deserve some regard , as they are obliged to connect their fables with the real history of their own times . 
See the lives of St . 
Anianus , the bishops of Metz , Ste . 
, in the Historians of France , tom . 
cannot be reconciled with any principles of reason or criticism . 
The facility with which Attila had penetrated into the heart of Gaul , may be ascribed to his insidious policy , as well as to the terror of his arms . 
The patrician passed the Alps at the head of some troops , whose strength and numbers scarcely deserved the name of an army . 
The example of the Goths determined several tribes or nations , that seemed to fluctuate between the Huns and the Romans . 
Vix liquerat Alpes Aetius , tenue , et rarum sine milite ducens Robur , in auxiliis Geticum male credulus agmen Incassum propriis praesumens adfore castris . 
The policy of Attila , of Aetius , and of the Visigoths , is imperfectly described in the Panegyric of Avitus , and the thirty sixth chapter of Jornandes . 
The poet and the historian were both biased by personal or national prejudices . 
The former exalts the merit and importance of Avitus orbis , Avite , salus , c . 
! The latter is anxious to show the Goths in the most favorable light . 
Yet their agreement when they are fairly interpreted , is a proof of their veracity . 
The review of the army of Aetius is made by Jornandes , c . 
, of the Historians of France , with the notes of the Benedictine editor . 
The anxiety of Attila prompted him to consult his priests and haruspices . 
He pressed them to consider their past glory , their actual danger , and their future hopes . 
The cautious steps of their enemies , their strict alliance , and their advantageous posts , he artfully represented as the effects , not of prudence , but of fear . 
I myself , continued Attila , will throw the first javelin , and the wretch who refuses to imitate the example of his sovereign , is devoted to inevitable death . 
At the head of his brave and faithful Huns , he occupied in person the centre of the line . 
The disposition of the allies was regulated by a different principle . 
Sangiban , the faithless king of the Alani , was placed in the centre , where his motions might be strictly watched , and that the treachery might be instantly punished . 
Aurelianensis urbis obsidio , oppugnatio , irruptio , nec direptio , l . 
The preservation of Orleans might easily be turned into a miracle , obtained and foretold by the holy bishop . 
for the more reasonable number of xvm . 
Chalons , or Duro Catalaunum , afterwards Catalauni , had formerly made a part of the territory of Rheims from whence it is distant only twenty seven miles . 
D'Anville , Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
The name of Campania , or Champagne , is frequently mentioned by Gregory of Tours and that great province , of which Rheims was the capital , obeyed the command of a duke . 
The discipline and tactics of the Greeks and Romans form an interesting part of their national manners . 
the art of destroying the human species . 
As Theodoric rode along the ranks , to animate his troops , he received a mortal stroke from the javelin of Andages , a noble Ostrogoth , and immediately fell from his horse . 
The wounded king was oppressed in the general disorder , and trampled under the feet of his own cavalry and this important death served to explain the ambiguous prophecy of the haruspices . 
Attila already exulted in the confidence of victory , when the valiant Torismond descended from the hills , and verified the remainder of the prediction . 
They retired within the circle of wagons that fortified their camp and the dismounted squadrons prepared themselves for a defence , to which neither their arms , nor their temper , were adapted . 
The event was doubtful but Attila had secured a last and honorable resource . 
The expressions of Jornandes , or rather of Cassiodorus , are extremely strong . 
But his enemies had passed the night in equal disorder and anxiety . 
The inconsiderate courage of Torismond was tempted to urge the pursuit , till he unexpectedly found himself , with a few followers , in the midst of the Scythian wagons . 
The kings and nations who might have deserted his standard in the hour of distress , were made sensible that the displeasure of their monarch was the most imminent and inevitable danger . 
Such were those savage ancestors , whose imaginary virtues have sometimes excited the praise and envy of civilized ages . 
Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
dismissed the prince of the Franks , by suggesting to him a similar apprehension . 
suit the time and circumstances of the invasion of Attila . 
His residence in Thuringia was long attested by popular tradition and he is supposed to have assembled a couroultai , or diet , in the territory of Eisenach . 
, who settles with nice accuracy the extent of ancient Thuringia , and derives its name from the Gothic tribe of the Therungi Chapter XXXV Invasion By Attila . 
The demand was again rejected , or eluded and the indignant lover immediately took the field , passed the Alps , invaded Italy , and besieged Aquileia with an innumerable host of Barbarians . 
But the labor of many thousand provincials and captives , whose lives were sacrificed without pity , might execute the most painful and dangerous work . 
The skill of the Roman artists might be corrupted to the destruction of their country . 
Aquileia was at that period one of the richest , the most populous , and the strongest of the maritime cities of the Adriatic coast . 
After this dreadful chastisement , Attila pursued his march and as he passed , the cities of Altinum , Concordia , and Padua , were reduced into heaps of stones and ashes . 
The inland towns , Vicenza , Verona , and Bergamo , were exposed to the rapacious cruelty of the Huns . 
The revenge which Attila inflicted on this monument of Roman vanity , was harmless and ingenious . 
Machinis constructis , omnibusque tormentorum generibus adhibitis . 
In the thirteenth century , the Moguls battered the cities of China with large engines , constructed by the Mahometans or Christians in their service , which threw stones from to pounds weight . 
, , , , c . 
nor is it easy to decide which is the original . 
But the Greek historian is guilty of an inexcusable mistake , in placing the siege of Aquileia after the death of Aetius . 
Jornandes , about a hundred years afterwards , affirms , that Aquileia was so completely ruined , ita ut vix ejus vestigia , ut appareant , reliquerint . 
the more recent capital of the Venetian province . 
Note Compare the curious Latin poems on the destruction of Aquileia , published by M. Endlicher in his valuable catalogue of Latin Mss. in the library of Vienna , p . 
Repleta quondam domibus sublimibus , ornatis mire , niveis , marmorels , Nune ferax frugum metiris funiculo ruricolarum . 
The monkish poet has his consolation in Attila's sufferings in soul and body . 
Vindictam tamen non evasit impius destructor tuus Attila sevissimus , Nunc igni simul gehennae et vermibus excruciatur P. . 
in his works , tom . 
and Muratori , Annali d'Italia , tom . 
This anecdote may be found under two different articles of the miscellaneous compilation of Suidas . 
Leo respondit , humana , hoc pictum manu Videres hominem dejectum , si pingere Leones scirent . 
Appendix ad Phaedrum , Fab . 
has omitted this most lame and impotent conclusion . 
It is a saying worthy of the ferocious pride of Attila , that the grass never grew on the spot where his horse had trod . 
Yet the savage destroyer undesignedly laid the foundation of a republic , which revived , in the feudal state of Europe , the art and spirit of commercial industry . 
Many families of Aquileia , Padua , and the adjacent towns , who fled from the sword of the Huns , found a safe , though obscure , refuge in the neighboring islands . 
Till the middle of the fifth century , these remote and sequestered spots remained without cultivation , with few inhabitants , and almost without a name . 
A people , whose habitations might be doubtfully assigned to the earth or water , soon became alike familiar with the two elements and the demands of avarice succeeded to those of necessity . 
The existence of the Venetian republic under the Gothic kingdom of Italy , is attested by the same authentic record , which annihilates their lofty claim of original and perpetual independence . 
The history of that province till the age of Charlemagne forms the first and most interesting part of the Verona Illustrata , p . 
, ) in which the marquis Scipio Maffei has shown himself equally capable of enlarged views and minute disquisitions . 
This emigration is not attested by any contemporary evidence but the fact is proved by the event , and the circumstances might be preserved by tradition . 
The citizens of Aquileia retired to the Isle of Gradus , those of Padua to Rivus Altus , or Rialto , where the city of Venice was afterwards built , c . 
The topography and antiquities of the Venetian islands , from Gradus to Clodia , or Chioggia , are accurately stated in the Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii Aevi . 
has translated and explained this curious letter , in the spirit of a learned antiquarian and a faithful subject , who considered Venice as the only legitimate offspring of the Roman republic . 
See Osservazioni Letterarie , tom . 
Under the emperors , Venetia Prima obtained more than once , by its calamities , a place in history . 
But the maritime province was occupied in salt works , fisheries , and commerce . 
The Romans have considered the inhabitants of this part as beneath the dignity of history , and have left them in obscurity . 
They dwelt there until the period when their islands afforded a retreat to their ruined and fugitive compatriots . 
G. Compare , on the origin of Venice , Daru , Hist . 
M. See , in the second volume of Amelot de la Houssaie , Histoire du Gouvernement de Venise , a translation of the famous Squittinio . 
Amidst the general consternation , Aetius alone was incapable of fear but it was impossible that he should achieve , alone and unassisted , any military exploits worthy of his former renown . 
The Barbarians who had defended Gaul , refused to march to the relief of Italy and the succors promised by the Eastern emperor were distant and doubtful . 
If the mind of Valentinian had been susceptible of any generous sentiments , he would have chosen such a general for his example and his guide . 
This shameful abdication was suspended , however , by the spirit of doubt and delay , which commonly adheres to pusillanimous counsels , and sometimes corrects their pernicious tendency . 
The Western emperor , with the senate and people of Rome , embraced the more salutary resolution of deprecating , by a solemn and suppliant embassy , the wrath of Attila . 
The Barbarian monarch listened with favorable , and even respectful , attention and the deliverance of Italy was purchased by the immense ransom , or dowry , of the princess Honoria . 
The state of his army might facilitate the treaty , and hasten his retreat . 
Their martial spirit was relaxed by the wealth and idolence of a warm climate . 
His mind , superior to real danger , was assaulted by imaginary terrors nor could he escape the influence of superstition , which had so often been subservient to his designs . 
The pressing eloquence of Leo , his majestic aspect and sacerdotal robes , excited the veneration of Attila for the spiritual father of the Christians . 
The apparition of the two apostles , St . 
Paul , who menaced the Barbarian with instant death , if he rejected the prayer of their successor , is one of the noblest legends of ecclesiastical tradition . 
has published a curious passage from the Chronicle of Prosper . 
Attila , redintegratis viribus , quas in Gallia amiserat , Italiam ingredi per Pannonias intendit nihil duce nostro Aetio secundum prioris belli opera prospiciente , c . 
He had studied the characters of the two chiefs of the senate but he attached himself to Basilius , as the more solid and disinterested friend . 
See Dupin , Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique , tom . 
tardis ingens ubi flexibus errat Mincius , et tenera praetexit arundine ripas Anne lacus tantos , te Lari maxime , teque Fluctibus , et fremitu assurgens Benace marino . 
has illustrated with taste and learning this interesting topography . 
He places the interview of Attila and St . 
Note Gibbon has made a singular mistake the Mincius flows out of the Bonacus at Peschiera , not into it . 
The interview is likewise placed at Ponte Molino . 
and at Governolo , at the conflux of the Mincio and the Gonzaga . 
bishop of Mantua , erected a tablet in the year , in the church of the latter place , commemorative of the event . 
Descrizione di Verona a de la sua provincia . 
M. Si statim infesto agmine urbem petiissent , grande discrimen esset sed in Venetia quo fere tractu Italia mollissima est , ipsa soli coelique clementia robur elanquit . 
Ad hoc panis usu carnisque coctae , et dulcedine vini mitigatos , c . 
The historian Priscus had positively mentioned the effect which this example produced on the mind of Attila . 
relievo of Algardi , on one of the altars of St . 
bravely sustains the truth of the apparition which is rejected , however , by the most learned and pious Catholics . 
Yet , in the mean while , Attila relieved his tender anxiety , by adding a beautiful maid , whose name was Ildico , to the list of his innumerable wives . 
Attila , ut Priscus historicus refert , extinctionis suae tempore , puellam Ildico nomine , decoram , valde , sibi matrimonium post innumerabiles uxores . 
Filii Attilae , quorum per licentiam libidinis poene populus fuit . 
Polygamy has been established among the Tartars of every age . 
The rank of plebeian wives is regulated only by their personal charms and the faded matron prepares , without a murmur , the bed which is destined for her blooming rival . 
But in royal families , the daughters of Khans communicate to their sons a prior right . 
See Genealogical History , p . 
on me payera ce qui m'en va couter . 
and were probably transcribed from Priscus . 
The revolution which subverted the empire of the Huns , established the fame of Attila , whose genius alone had sustained the huge and disjointed fabric . 
His brother , Dengisich , with an army of Huns , still formidable in their flight and ruin , maintained his ground above fifteen years on the banks of the Danube . 
Attila had fondly or superstitiously believed , that Irnac , the youngest of his sons , was destined to perpetuate the glories of his race . 
They were soon overwhelmed by a torrent of new Barbarians , who followed the same road which their own ancestors had formerly discovered . 
See Jornandes , de Rebus Geticis , c . 
His distinction of the national arms is curious and important . 
I am not precisely informed of the situation of the River Netad . 
and M. de Guignes , by his extraordinary knowledge of the Chinese language and writers . 
Such an event might contribute to the safety of the Eastern empire , under the reign of a prince who conciliated the friendship , without forfeiting the esteem , of the Barbarians . 
The ambitious designs , of which he was secretly accused , excited the fears , as well as the resentment , of Valentinian . 
Aetius himself , supported by the consciousness of his merit , his services , and perhaps his innocence , seems to have maintained a haughty and indiscreet behavior . 
The horrid deed , palliated by the specious names of justice and necessity , was immediately communicated by the emperor to his soldiers , his subjects , and his allies . 
Such sentiments seldom pervade the walls of a palace yet the emperor was confounded by the honest reply of a Roman , whose approbation he had not disdained to solicit . 
I am ignorant , sir , of your motives or provocations I only know , that you have acted like a man who cuts off his right hand with his left . 
The praises awarded by Gibbon to the character of Aetius have been animadverted upon with great severity . 
M. Placidia died at Rome , November , A. D. . 
She was buried at Ravenna , where her sepulchre , and even her corpse , seated in a chair of cypress wood , were preserved for ages . 
The empress received many compliments from the orthodox clergy and St . 
Peter Chrysologus assured her , that her zeal for the Trinity had been recompensed by an august trinity of children . 
The poet knew the world , and was not inclined to flatter a minister who had injured or disgraced Avitus and Majorian , the successive heroes of his song . 
The luxury of Rome seems to have attracted the long and frequent visits of Valentinian who was consequently more despised at Rome than in any other part of his dominions . 
A republican spirit was insensibly revived in the senate , as their authority , and even their supplies , became necessary for the support of his feeble government . 
The stately demeano of an hereditary monarch offended their pride and the pleasures of Valentinian were injurious to the peace and honor of noble families . 
The birth of the empress Eudoxia was equal to his own , and her charms and tender affection deserved those testimonies of love which her inconstant husband dissipated in vague and unlawful amours . 
Valentinian , who supposed that every human breast was devoid , like his own , of friendship and gratitude , had imprudently admitted among his guards several domestics and followers of Aetius . 
Such was the fate of Valentinian the Third , the last Roman emperor of the family of Theodosius . 
With regard to the cause and circumstances of the deaths of Aetius and Valentinian , our information is dark and imperfect . 
is a fabulous writer for the events which precede his own memory . 
But its fall was announced by a clearer omen than the flight of vultures the Roman government appeared every day less formidable to its enemies , more odious and oppressive to its subjects . 
They abjured and abhorred the name of Roman citizens , which had formerly excited the ambition of mankind . 
This interpretation of Vettius , a celebrated augur , was quoted by Varro , in the xviiith book of his Antiquities . 
Censorinus , de Die Natali , c . 
According to Varro , the twelfth century would expire A. D. , but the uncertainty of the true aera of Rome might allow some latitude of anticipation or delay . 
may be admitted as fair witnesses of the popular opinion . 
Jam reputant annos , interceptoque volatu Vulturis , incidunt properatis saecula metis . 
Jam prope fata tui bissenas Vulturis alas Implebant seis namque tuos , scis , Roma , labores . 
The fifth book of Salvian is filled with pathetic lamentations and vehement invectives . 
His immoderate freedom serves to prove the weakness , as well as the corruption , of the Roman government . 
The Bagaudae of Spain , who fought pitched battles with the Roman troops , are repeatedly mentioned in the Chronicle of Idatius . 
Salvian has described their distress and rebellion in very forcible language . 
nunc ultro repudiatur ac fugitur , nec vile tamen sed etiam abominabile poene habetur . 
Et hinc est ut etiam hi quid ad Barbaros non confugiunt , Barbari tamen esse coguntur , scilicet ut est pars magna Hispanorum , et non minima Gallorum . 
De Bagaudis nunc mihi sermo est , qui per malos judices et cruentos spoliati , afflicti , necati postquam jus Romanae libertatis amiserant , etiam honorem Romani nominis perdiderunt . 
Vocamus rabelles , vocamus perditos quos esse compulimua criminosos . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
Part I. Sack Of Rome By Genseric , King Of The Vandals . 
Succession Of The Last Emperors Of The West , Maximus , Avitus , Majorian , Severus , Anthemius , Olybrius , Glycerius , Nepos , Augustulus . 
Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
Reign Of Odoacer , The First Barbarian King Of Italy . 
The loss or desolation of the provinces , from the Ocean to the Alps , impaired the glory and greatness of Rome her internal prosperity was irretrievably destroyed by the separation of Africa . 
The rapacious Vandals confiscated the patrimonial estates of the senators , and intercepted the regular subsidies , which relieved the poverty and encouraged the idleness of the plebeians . 
The revolutions of the palace , which left the Western empire without a defender , and without a lawful prince , dispelled the apprehensions , and stimulated the avarice , of Genseric . 
The private life of the senator Petronius Maximus was often alleged as a rare example of human felicity . 
The luxury of his palace and table was hospitable and elegant . 
The injury which he received from the emperor Valentinian appears to excuse the most bloody revenge . 
A patriot would have hesitated before he plunged himself and his country into those inevitable calamities which must follow the extinction of the royal house of Theodosius . 
But the day of his inauguration was the last day of his happiness . 
in the palace and after passing a sleepless night , he sighed that he had attained the summit of his wishes , and aspired only to descend from the dangerous elevation . 
Sidonius Apollinaris composed the thirteenth epistle of the second book , to refute the paradox of his friend Serranus , who entertained a singular , though generous , enthusiasm for the deceased emperor . 
This epistle , with some indulgence , may claim the praise of an elegant composition and it throws much light on the character of Maximus . 
assigns to another senator of rank Districtus ensis cui super impia Cervice pendet , non Siculoe dapes Dulcem elaborabunt saporem Non avium citharaeque cantus Somnum reducent . 
Sidonius concludes his letter with the story of Damocles , which Cicero had so inimitably told . 
The reign of Maximus continued about three months . 
When the Vandals disembarked at the mouth of the Tyber , the emperor was suddenly roused from his lethargy by the clamors of a trembling and exasperated multitude . 
The only hope which presented itself to his astonished mind was that of a precipitate flight , and he exhorted the senators to imitate the example of their prince . 
Notwithstanding the evidence of Procopius , Evagrius , Idatius Marcellinus , c . 
that Genseric spared the three apostolical churches , is not countenanced even by the doubtful testimony of the Liber Pontificalis . 
It should seem that the roof of the Capitol was decorated with gilt statues , and chariots drawn by four horses . 
The curious reader may consult the learned and accurate treatise of Hadrian Reland , de Spoliis Templi Hierosolymitani in Arcu Titiano Romae conspicuis , in mo . 
The vessel which transported the relics of the Capitol was the only one of the whole fleet that suffered shipwreck . 
If a bigoted sophist , a Pagan bigot , had mentioned the accident , he might have rejoiced that this cargo of sacrilege was lost in the sea . 
See Victor Vitensis , de Persecut . 
Deogratius governed the church of Carthage only three years . 
If he had not been privately buried , his corpse would have been torn piecemeal by the mad devotion of the people . 
and the Chronicles of Idatius , Prosper , Marcellinus , and Theophanes , under the proper year . 
The deaths of Aetius and Valentinian had relaxed the ties which held the Barbarians of Gaul in peace and subordination . 
Avitus , the stranger , whose merit was so nobly rewarded , descended from a wealthy and honorable family in the diocese of Auvergne . 
Either the merit of Avitus excited envy , or his moderation was desirous of repose , since he calmly retired to an estate , which he possessed in the neighborhood of Clermont . 
A vacant throne , which he might ascend without guilt or danger , tempted his ambition and the Visigoths were easily persuaded to support his claim by their irresistible suffrage . 
They loved the person of Avitus they respected his virtues and they were not insensible of the advantage , as well as honor , of giving an emperor to the West . 
Avitus , after a decent resistance , accepted the Imperial diadem from the representatives of Gaul and his election was ratified by the acclamations of the Barbarians and provincials . 
The private life and elevation of Avitus must be deduced , with becoming suspicion , from the panegyric pronounced by Sidonius Apollinaris , his subject , and his son in law . 
and had been the property of Avitus . 
The precise situation is not ascertained . 
Consult , however , the notes of Savaron and Sirmond . 
has described the country life of the Gallic nobles , in a visit which he made to his friends , whose estates were in the neighborhood of Nismes . 
The table was twice served , at dinner and supper , with hot meat and wine . 
During the intermediate time , the company slept , took the air on horseback , and need the warm bath . 
which describe the importunity of Theodoric and of Gaul , struggling to overcome the modest reluctance of Avitus , are blown away by three words of an honest historian . 
He is of a middle stature , his body appears rather plump than fat , and in his well proportioned limbs agility is united with muscular strength . 
The ordinary distribution of his time , as far as it is exposed to the public view , may be concisely represented . 
The rest of the morning is employed in the administration of his kingdom . 
he rises from his throne , and visits either his treasury or his stables . 
At this game , which he loves as the image of war , he alternately displays his eagerness , his skill , his patience , and his cheerful temper . 
If he loses , he laughs he is modest and silent if he wins . 
the tide of business again returns , and flows incessantly till after sunset , when the signal of the royal supper dismisses the weary crowd of suppliants and pleaders . 
He retires from table and the nocturnal guards are immediately posted at the entrance of the treasury , the palace , and the private apartments . 
was dictated by some political motive . 
It was designed for the public eye , and had been shown by the friends of Sidonius , before it was inserted in the collection of his epistles . 
The first book was published separately . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Eccles . 
Videas ibi elegantiam Graecam , abundantiam Gallicanam celeritatem Italam publicam pompam , privatam diligentiam , regiam disciplinam . 
Tunc etiam ego aliquid obsecraturus feliciter vincor , et mihi tabula perit ut causa salvetur . 
Sidonius of Auvergne was not a subject of Theodoric but he might be compelled to solicit either justice or favor at the court of Thoulouse . 
When the king of the Visigoths encouraged Avitus to assume the purple , he offered his person and his forces , as a faithful soldier of the republic . 
The exploits of Theodoric soon convinced the world that he had not degenerated from the warlike virtues of his ancestors . 
The provincials of Carthagena and Tarragona , afflicted by a hostile invasion , represented their injuries and their apprehensions . 
From the field of battle Theodoric advanced to Braga , their metropolis , which still retained the splendid vestiges of its ancient commerce and dignity . 
Eulalia but he was stopped in the full career of success , and recalled from Spain before he could provide for the security of his conquests . 
Theodoric himself had given a solemn and voluntary promise of fidelity , which was understood both in Gaul and Spain . 
Romae sum , te duce , Amicus , Principe te , Miles . 
Quaeque sinu pelagi jactat se Bracara dives . 
de Claris Urbibus , p . 
From the design of the king of the Suevi , it is evident that the navigation from the ports of Gallicia to the Mediterranean was known and practised . 
The ships of Bracara , or Braga , cautiously steered along the coast , without daring to lose themselves in the Atlantic . 
This Suevic war is the most authentic part of the Chronicle of Idatius , who , as bishop of Iria Flavia , was himself a spectator and a sufferer . 
has expatiated , with pleasure , on the Gothic victory . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
The pressing solicitations of the senate and people persuaded the emperor Avitus to fix his residence at Rome , and to accept the consulship for the ensuing year . 
But the Romans were not inclined either to excuse his faults or to acknowledge his virtues . 
The several parts of the empire became every day more alienated from each other and the stranger of Gaul was the object of popular hatred and contempt . 
In one of the porticos or galleries belonging to Trajan's library , among the statues of famous writers and orators . 
mentions an indecent jest of Avitus , which seems more applicable to Rome than to Treves . 
praises the royal birth of Ricimer , the lawful heir , as he chooses to insinuate , both of the Gothic and Suevic kingdoms . 
See the Chronicle of Idatius . 
styles him , with some truth , virum egregium , et pene tune in Italia ad ex ercitum singularem . 
In another place , he calls him , vir totius simplicitatis . 
in which he relates about fifty foolish miracles performed by his relics . 
is concise , but correct , in the reign of his countryman . 
could suppose , that he died of the plaque . 
After a modest appeal to the examples of his brethren , Virgil and Horace , Sidonius honestly confesses the debt , and promises payment . 
Sic mihi diverso nuper sub Marte cadenti Jussisti placido Victor ut essem animo . 
Serviat ergo tibi servati lingua poetae , Atque meae vitae laus tua sit pretium . 
The successor of Avitus presents the welcome discovery of a great and heroic character , such as sometimes arise , in a degenerate age , to vindicate the honor of the human species . 
Majorian derived his name from his maternal grandfather , who , in the reign of the great Theodosius , had commanded the troops of the Illyrian frontier . 
Majorian , after the death of Aetius , was recalled and promoted and his intimate connection with Count Ricimer was the immediate step by which he ascended the throne of the Western empire . 
He was invested with the purple at Ravenna and the epistle which he addressed to the senate , will best describe his situation and his sentiments . 
Your election , Conscript Fathers ! and the ordinance of the most valiant army , have made me your emperor . 
Be assured , that , in our times , justice shall resume her ancient vigor , and that virtue shall become , not only innocent , but meritorious . 
Let none , except the authors themselves , be apprehensive of delations , which , as a subject , I have always condemned , and , as a prince , will severely punish . 
a concise but comprehensive definition of royal virtue . 
The Panegyric was pronounced at Lyons before the end of the year , while the emperor was still consul . 
It has more art than genius , and more labor than art . 
The ornaments are false and trivial the expression is feeble and prolix and Sidonius wants the skill to exhibit the principal figure in a strong and distinct light . 
The private life of Majorian occupies about two hundred lines , . 
She pressed his immediate death , and was scarcely satisfied with his disgrace . 
was not incompatible with base and sanguinary counsels . 
betrays the extreme weakness of Italy . 
Sidonius proclaims the unanimous voice of the empire Postquam ordine vobis Ordo omnis regnum dederat plebs , curia , nules , Et collega simul . 
This language is ancient and constitutional and we may observe , that the clergy were not yet considered as a distinct order of the state . 
Either dilationes , or delationes would afford a tolerable reading , but there is much more sense and spirit in the latter , to which I have therefore given the preference . 
Ab externo hoste et a domestica clade liberavimus by the latter , Majorian must understand the tyranny of Avitus whose death he consequently avowed as a meritorious act . 
On this occasion , Sidonius is fearful and obscure he describes the twelve Caesars , the nations of Africa , c . 
Yet the expression , regnum nostrum , bears some taint of the age , and does not mix kindly with the word respublica , which he frequently repeats . 
judicious and effectual remedies to the public disorders . 
His regulations concerning the finances manifestly tended to remove , or at least to mitigate , the most intolerable grievances . 
to relieve the weary fortunes of the provincials , oppressed by the accumulated weight of indictions and superindictions . 
One instance of their extortion would appear incredible , were it not authenticated by the legislator himself . 
deserve to be considered as the heart of the cities , and the sinews of the republic . 
He urges , and even compels , their return to their respective cities but he removes the grievance which had forced them to desert the exercise of their municipal functions . 
at the end of the Theodosian Code , Novell . 
Godefroy has not given any commentary on these additional pieces . 
Fessas provincialium varia atque multiplici tributorum exactione fortunas , et extraordinariis fiscalium solutionum oneribus attritas , c . 
has found , by a diligent inquiry , that aurei of the Antonines weighed one hundred and eighteen , and those of the fifth century only sixty eight , English grains . 
Majorian gives currency to all gold coin , excepting only the Gallic solidus , from its deficiency , not in the weight , but in the standard . 
The decay of the city had gradually impaired the value of the public works . 
Majorian , who had often sighed over the desolation of the city , applied a severe remedy to the growing evil . 
The pious maids , who consecrated their virginity to Christ , were restrained from taking the veil till they had reached their fortieth year . 
Unequal marriages were condemned or annulled . 
Antiquarum aedium dissipatur speciosa constructio et ut aliquid reparetur , magna diruuntur . 
Hinc jam occasio nascitur , ut etiam unusquisque privatum aedificium construens , per gratiam judicum . 
praesumere de publicis locis necessaria , et transferre non dubitet c . 
With equal zeal , but with less power , Petrarch , in the fourteenth century , repeated the same complaints . 
If I prosecute this history , I shall not be unmindful of the decline and fall of the city of Rome an interesting object to which any plan was originally confined . 
While the emperor Majorian assiduously labored to restore the happiness and virtue of the Romans , he encountered the arms of Genseric , from his character and situation their most formidable enemy . 
The public opinion had imposed a nobler and more arduous task on the genius of Majorian . 
They passed the Alps in a severe winter . 
The citizens of Lyons had presumed to shut their gates they soon implored , and experienced , the clemency of Majorian . 
He vanquished Theodoric in the field and admitted to his friendship and alliance a king whom he had found not unworthy of his arms . 
Under circumstances much less favorable , Majorian equalled the spirit and perseverance of the ancient Romans . 
The intrepid countenance of Majorian animated his troops with a confidence of victory and , if we might credit the historian Procopius , his courage sometimes hurried him beyond the bounds of prudence . 
Such an anecdote may be rejected as an improbable fiction but it is a fiction which would not have been imagined , unless in the life of a hero . 
in a short fragment , which throws much light on the history of Majorian . 
Jornandes has suppressed the defeat and alliance of the Visigoths , which were solemnly proclaimed in Gallicia and are marked in the Chronicle of Idatius . 
Iterea duplici texis dum littore classem Inferno superoque mari , cadit omnis in aequor Sylva tibi , c . 
The number of ships , which Priscus fixed at , is magnified , by an indefinite comparison with the fleets of Agamemnon , Xerxes , and Augustus . 
When Genseric conducted his unknown guest into the arsenal of Carthage , the arms clashed of their own accord . 
Majorian had tinged his yellow locks with a black color . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
The pressing solicitations of the senate and people persuaded the emperor Avitus to fix his residence at Rome , and to accept the consulship for the ensuing year . 
But the Romans were not inclined either to excuse his faults or to acknowledge his virtues . 
The several parts of the empire became every day more alienated from each other and the stranger of Gaul was the object of popular hatred and contempt . 
In one of the porticos or galleries belonging to Trajan's library , among the statues of famous writers and orators . 
mentions an indecent jest of Avitus , which seems more applicable to Rome than to Treves . 
praises the royal birth of Ricimer , the lawful heir , as he chooses to insinuate , both of the Gothic and Suevic kingdoms . 
See the Chronicle of Idatius . 
styles him , with some truth , virum egregium , et pene tune in Italia ad ex ercitum singularem . 
In another place , he calls him , vir totius simplicitatis . 
in which he relates about fifty foolish miracles performed by his relics . 
is concise , but correct , in the reign of his countryman . 
could suppose , that he died of the plaque . 
After a modest appeal to the examples of his brethren , Virgil and Horace , Sidonius honestly confesses the debt , and promises payment . 
Sic mihi diverso nuper sub Marte cadenti Jussisti placido Victor ut essem animo . 
Serviat ergo tibi servati lingua poetae , Atque meae vitae laus tua sit pretium . 
The successor of Avitus presents the welcome discovery of a great and heroic character , such as sometimes arise , in a degenerate age , to vindicate the honor of the human species . 
Majorian derived his name from his maternal grandfather , who , in the reign of the great Theodosius , had commanded the troops of the Illyrian frontier . 
Majorian , after the death of Aetius , was recalled and promoted and his intimate connection with Count Ricimer was the immediate step by which he ascended the throne of the Western empire . 
He was invested with the purple at Ravenna and the epistle which he addressed to the senate , will best describe his situation and his sentiments . 
Your election , Conscript Fathers ! and the ordinance of the most valiant army , have made me your emperor . 
Be assured , that , in our times , justice shall resume her ancient vigor , and that virtue shall become , not only innocent , but meritorious . 
Let none , except the authors themselves , be apprehensive of delations , which , as a subject , I have always condemned , and , as a prince , will severely punish . 
a concise but comprehensive definition of royal virtue . 
The Panegyric was pronounced at Lyons before the end of the year , while the emperor was still consul . 
It has more art than genius , and more labor than art . 
The ornaments are false and trivial the expression is feeble and prolix and Sidonius wants the skill to exhibit the principal figure in a strong and distinct light . 
The private life of Majorian occupies about two hundred lines , . 
She pressed his immediate death , and was scarcely satisfied with his disgrace . 
was not incompatible with base and sanguinary counsels . 
betrays the extreme weakness of Italy . 
Sidonius proclaims the unanimous voice of the empire Postquam ordine vobis Ordo omnis regnum dederat plebs , curia , nules , Et collega simul . 
This language is ancient and constitutional and we may observe , that the clergy were not yet considered as a distinct order of the state . 
Either dilationes , or delationes would afford a tolerable reading , but there is much more sense and spirit in the latter , to which I have therefore given the preference . 
Ab externo hoste et a domestica clade liberavimus by the latter , Majorian must understand the tyranny of Avitus whose death he consequently avowed as a meritorious act . 
On this occasion , Sidonius is fearful and obscure he describes the twelve Caesars , the nations of Africa , c . 
Yet the expression , regnum nostrum , bears some taint of the age , and does not mix kindly with the word respublica , which he frequently repeats . 
judicious and effectual remedies to the public disorders . 
His regulations concerning the finances manifestly tended to remove , or at least to mitigate , the most intolerable grievances . 
to relieve the weary fortunes of the provincials , oppressed by the accumulated weight of indictions and superindictions . 
One instance of their extortion would appear incredible , were it not authenticated by the legislator himself . 
deserve to be considered as the heart of the cities , and the sinews of the republic . 
He urges , and even compels , their return to their respective cities but he removes the grievance which had forced them to desert the exercise of their municipal functions . 
at the end of the Theodosian Code , Novell . 
Godefroy has not given any commentary on these additional pieces . 
Fessas provincialium varia atque multiplici tributorum exactione fortunas , et extraordinariis fiscalium solutionum oneribus attritas , c . 
has found , by a diligent inquiry , that aurei of the Antonines weighed one hundred and eighteen , and those of the fifth century only sixty eight , English grains . 
Majorian gives currency to all gold coin , excepting only the Gallic solidus , from its deficiency , not in the weight , but in the standard . 
The decay of the city had gradually impaired the value of the public works . 
Majorian , who had often sighed over the desolation of the city , applied a severe remedy to the growing evil . 
The pious maids , who consecrated their virginity to Christ , were restrained from taking the veil till they had reached their fortieth year . 
Unequal marriages were condemned or annulled . 
Antiquarum aedium dissipatur speciosa constructio et ut aliquid reparetur , magna diruuntur . 
Hinc jam occasio nascitur , ut etiam unusquisque privatum aedificium construens , per gratiam judicum . 
praesumere de publicis locis necessaria , et transferre non dubitet c . 
With equal zeal , but with less power , Petrarch , in the fourteenth century , repeated the same complaints . 
If I prosecute this history , I shall not be unmindful of the decline and fall of the city of Rome an interesting object to which any plan was originally confined . 
While the emperor Majorian assiduously labored to restore the happiness and virtue of the Romans , he encountered the arms of Genseric , from his character and situation their most formidable enemy . 
The public opinion had imposed a nobler and more arduous task on the genius of Majorian . 
They passed the Alps in a severe winter . 
The citizens of Lyons had presumed to shut their gates they soon implored , and experienced , the clemency of Majorian . 
He vanquished Theodoric in the field and admitted to his friendship and alliance a king whom he had found not unworthy of his arms . 
Under circumstances much less favorable , Majorian equalled the spirit and perseverance of the ancient Romans . 
The intrepid countenance of Majorian animated his troops with a confidence of victory and , if we might credit the historian Procopius , his courage sometimes hurried him beyond the bounds of prudence . 
Such an anecdote may be rejected as an improbable fiction but it is a fiction which would not have been imagined , unless in the life of a hero . 
in a short fragment , which throws much light on the history of Majorian . 
Jornandes has suppressed the defeat and alliance of the Visigoths , which were solemnly proclaimed in Gallicia and are marked in the Chronicle of Idatius . 
Iterea duplici texis dum littore classem Inferno superoque mari , cadit omnis in aequor Sylva tibi , c . 
The number of ships , which Priscus fixed at , is magnified , by an indefinite comparison with the fleets of Agamemnon , Xerxes , and Augustus . 
When Genseric conducted his unknown guest into the arsenal of Carthage , the arms clashed of their own accord . 
Majorian had tinged his yellow locks with a black color . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
Without the help of a personal interview , Genseric was sufficiently acquainted with the genius and designs of his adversary . 
He practiced his customary arts of fraud and delay , but he practiced them without success . 
But Genseric was saved from impending and inevitable ruin by the treachery of some powerful subjects , envious , or apprehensive , of their master's success . 
After this event , the behavior of the two antagonists showed them superior to their fortune . 
The Vandal , instead of being elated by this accidental victory , immediately renewed his solicitations for peace . 
The virtues of Majorian could not protect him from the impetuous sedition , which broke out in the camp near Tortona , at the foot of the Alps . 
The private character of Majorian inspired love and respect . 
Spoliisque potitus Immensis , robux luxu jam perdidit omne , Quo valuit dum pauper erat . 
He afterwards applies to Genseric , unjustly , as it should seem , the vices of his subjects . 
observes , that the magazines which the Moors buried in the earth might escape his destructive search . 
Two or three hundred pits are sometimes dug in the same place and each pit contains at least four hundred bushels of corn Shaw's Travels , p . 
Idatius , who was safe in Gallicia from the power of Recimer boldly and honestly declares , Vandali per proditeres admoniti , c i . 
dissembles , however , the name of the traitor . 
Some read Suevorum , and I am unwilling to efface either of the words , as they express the different accomplices who united in the conspiracy against Majorian . 
See the Epigrams of Ennodius , No. cxxxv . 
It is flat and obscure but Ennodius was made bishop of Pavia fifty years after the death of Majorian , and his praise deserves credit and regard . 
of a supper at Arles , to which he was invited by Majorian , a short time before his death . 
At his command , the obsequious senate of Rome bestowed the Imperial title on Libius Severus , who ascended the throne of the West without emerging from the obscurity of a private condition . 
History has scarcely deigned to notice his birth , his elevation , his character , or his death . 
Marcellinus still adhered to the old religion and the devout Pagans , who secretly disobeyed the laws of the church and state , applauded his profound skill in the science of divination . 
By a timely flight , Marcellinus escaped the rage of Valentinian , and boldly asserted his liberty amidst the convulsions of the Western empire . 
dismisses him to heaven Auxerat Augustus naturae lege Severus Divorum numerum . 
In various circumstances of the life of Marcellinus , it is not easy to reconcile the Greek historian with the Latin Chronicles of the times . 
bestows on a nameless master general , who commanded the rear guard of Majorian . 
The kingdom of Italy , a name to which the Western empire was gradually reduced , was afflicted , under the reign of Ricimer , by the incessant depredations of the Vandal pirates . 
His designs were concealed with impenetrable secrecy , till the moment that he hoisted sail . 
As they were more ambitious of spoil than of glory , they seldom attacked any fortified cities , or engaged any regular troops in the open field . 
and in three panegyrics of Sidonius , whose chronological order is absurdly transposed in the editions both of Savaron and Sirmond . 
An adequate , or at least a valuable , compensation , was offered by the Eastern emperor , to purchase a necessary peace . 
Eudoxia and her younger daughter , Placidia , were honorably restored , and the fury of the Vandals was confined to the limits of the Western empire . 
The poet himself is compelled to acknowledge the distress of Ricimer Praeterea invictus Ricimer , quem publica fata Respiciunt , proprio solas vix Marte repellit Piratam per rura vagum . 
This fabulous machinery , which the genius of Claudian had used and abused , is the constant and miserable resource of the muse of Sidonius . 
Since the death of the younger Theodosius , the domestic repose of Constantinople had never been interrupted by war or faction . 
The patrician Aspar might have placed the diadem on his own head , if he would have subscribed the Nicene creed . 
He recommended the obscure name of Leo of Thrace , a military tribune , and the principal steward of his household . 
Yet the temperate firmness with which Leo resisted the oppression of his benefactor , showed that he was conscious of his duty and of his prerogative . 
that the man who is invested with this garment , should be guilty of lying . 
that a prince should be compelled to resign his own judgment , and the public interest , to the will of a subject . 
After this extraordinary scene , it was impossible that the reconciliation of the emperor and the patrician could be sincere or , at least , that it could be solid and permanent . 
The measures of peace and war were affected by this internal revolution . 
As long as Aspar degraded the majesty of the throne , the secret correspondence of religion and interest engaged him to favor the cause of Genseric . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Eccles . 
See Procopius , de Bell . 
From this disability of Aspar to ascend the throne , it may be inferred that the stain of Heresy was perpetual and indelible , while that of Barbarism disappeared in the second generation . 
This appears to be the first origin of a ceremony , which all the Christian princes of the world have since adopted and from which the clergy have deduced the most formidable consequences . 
who was conversant with the writers of better days , has preserved the remarkable words of Aspar . 
The virtues of Anthemius have perhaps been magnified , since the Imperial descent , which he could only deduce from the usurper Procopius , has been swelled into a line of emperors . 
But the merit of his immediate parents , their honors , and their riches , rendered Anthemius one of the most illustrious subjects of the East . 
The grandson of the praefect was raised above the condition of a private subject , by his marriage with Euphemia , the daughter of the emperor Marcian . 
The wealth of two empires was ostentatiously displayed and many senators completed their ruin , by an expensive effort to disguise their poverty . 
Tali tu civis ab urbe Procopio genitore micas cui prisca propago Augustis venit a proavis . 
then proceeds to relate the private life and fortunes of the future emperor , with which he must have been imperfectly acquainted . 
and the Chronicle of Idatius mentions the forces which attended his march . 
Interveni autem nuptiis Patricii Ricimeris , cui filia perennis Augusti in spem publicae securitatis copulabator . 
The journey of Sidonius from Lyons , and the festival of Rome , are described with some spirit . 
very fairly states his motive , his labor , and his reward . 
Hic ipse Panegyricus , si non judicium , certa eventum , boni operis , accepit . 
He was made bishop of Clermont , A. D. . 
Yet some suspicious appearances are found to sully the theological fame of Anthemius . 
Peter , had not obliged him to abjure the unpopular indulgence . 
The savage and simple rites were expressive of an early state of society before the invention of arts and agriculture . 
The palace of Anthemius stood on the banks of the Propontis . 
Ducange Constantinopolis Christiana , p . 
apud beatum Petrum Apostolum , palam ne id fieret , clara voce constrinxit , in tantum ut non ea facienda cum interpositione juramenti idem promitteret Imperator . 
Gelasius Epistol ad Andronicum , apud Baron . 
The cardinal observes , with some complacency , that it was much easier to plant heresies at Constantinople , than at Rome . 
Damascius , in the life of the philosopher Isidore , apud Photium , p . 
Damascius , who lived under Justinian , composed another work , consisting of praeternatural stories of souls , daemons , apparitions , the dotage of Platonic Paganism . 
the fabulous deities are the principal actors . 
If Jerom was scourged by the angels for only reading Virgil , the bishop of Clermont , for such a vile imitation , deserved an additional whipping from the Muses . 
have labored to ascertain the true situation of the Lupercal . 
Baronius published , from the MSS . 
which is entitled Adversus Andromachum Senatorem , caeterosque Romanos , qui Lupercalia secundum morem pristinum colenda constituebant . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
The situation , and perhaps the character , of Leo , dissuaded him from exposing his person to the toils and dangers of an African war . 
The campaign was opened by a bold and successful enterprise of the praefect Heraclius . 
The intelligence of this loss extorted from Genseric some insidious and ineffectual propositions of peace but he was still more seriously alarmed by the reconciliation of Marcellinus with the two empires . 
The expense of the naval armament , which Leo sent against the Vandals , has been distinctly ascertained and the curious and instructive account displays the wealth of the declining empire . 
The fleet that sailed from Constantinople to Carthage , consisted of eleven hundred and thirteen ships , and the number of soldiers and mariners exceeded one hundred thousand men . 
Basiliscus , the brother of the empress Vorina , was intrusted with this important command . 
His sister , the wife of Leo , had exaggerated the merit of his former exploits against the Scythians . 
Itaque nos quibus totius mundi regimen commisit superna provisio . 
Pius et triumphator semper Augustus filius noster Anthemius , licet Divina Majestas et nostra creatio pietati ejus plenam Imperii commiserit potestatem , c . 
Such is the dignified style of Leo , whom Anthemius respectfully names , Dominus et Pater meus Princeps sacratissimus Leo . 
and it requires some dexterity to use the circumstances afforded by Theophanes , without injury to the more respectable evidence of Procopius . 
The march of Cato from Berenice , in the province of Cyrene , was much longer than that of Heraclius from Tripoli . 
has laboriously collected from the Byzantine writers , are less certain , and less important . 
but he is surely unjust , when he charges Leo with hoarding the treasures which he extorted from the people . 
Note Compare likewise the newly discovered work of Lydus , de Magistratibus , ed . 
Lydus states the expenditure at , lbs . 
of gold , , of silver . 
But Lydus exaggerates the fleet to the incredible number of , long ships , and the troops to , men . 
Lydus describes this fatal measure , of which he charges the blame on Basiliscus , as the shipwreck of the state . 
From that time all the revenues of the empire were anticipated and the finances fell into inextricable confusion . 
M. Experience has shown , that the success of an invader most commonly depends on the vigor and celerity of his operations . 
The formidable navy of Basiliscus pursued its prosperous navigation from the Thracian Bosphorus to the coast of Africa . 
He landed his troops at Cape Bona , or the promontory of Mercury , about forty miles from Carthage . 
The army of Heraclius , and the fleet of Marcellinus , either joined or seconded the Imperial lieutenant and the Vandals who opposed his progress by sea or land , were successively vanquished . 
If Basiliscus had seized the moment of consternation , and boldly advanced to the capital , Carthage must have surrendered , and the kingdom of the Vandals was extinguished . 
Genseric beheld the danger with firmness , and eluded it with his veteran dexterity . 
During this short interval , the wind became favorable to the designs of Genseric . 
He manned his largest ships of war with the bravest of the Moors and Vandals and they towed after them many large barks , filled with combustible materials . 
In the obscurity of the night , these destructive vessels were impelled against the unguarded and unsuspecting fleet of the Romans , who were awakened by the sense of their instant danger . 
Among the events of that disastrous night , the heroic , or rather desperate , courage of John , one of the principal officers of Basiliscus , has rescued his name from oblivion . 
Sophia , till his sister , by her tears and entreaties , could obtain his pardon from the indignant emperor . 
Scipio landed farther in the bay , at the fair promontory see the animated description of Livy , xxix . 
affirms that many ships of the Vandals were sunk . 
that Basiliscus attacked Carthage , must be understood in a very qualified sense Damascius in Vit . 
It will appear , by comparing the three short chronicles of the times , that Marcellinus had fought near Carthage , and was killed in Sicily . 
M. For the African war , see Procopius , de Bell . 
has made a judicious observation on the failure of these great naval armaments . 
The feeble emperor could only procure for their defence the service of twelve thousand British auxiliaries . 
Jornandes is our best guide through the reigns of Theodoric II . 
Idatius ends too soon , and Isidore is too sparing of the information which he might have given on the affairs of Spain . 
The events that relate to Gaul are laboriously illustrated in the third book of the Abbe Dubos , Hist . 
Perhaps Ecdicius was only the son in law of Avitus , his wife's son by another husband . 
The last words Sirmond , Not . 
) may likewise denote the clerical tonsure , which was indeed the choice of Sidonius himself . 
addresses their general in a tone of friendship and familiarity . 
One of the last acts of jurisdiction , which the Roman senate exercised over their subjects of Gaul , was the trial and condemnation of Arvandus , the Praetorian praefect . 
The second praefecture , which he obtained within the term of five years , abolished the merit and popularity of his preceding administration . 
He was eagerly pursued by his accusers , the four deputies of Gaul , who were all distinguished by their birth , their dignities , or their eloquence . 
But their intentions were discovered by the zeal of Sidonius . 
His complaints were soon removed . 
An early day was fixed for his trial and Arvandus appeared , with his accusers , before a numerous assembly of the Roman senate . 
The obstinacy of Arvandus was founded on the strange supposition , that a subject could not be convicted of treason , unless he had actually conspired to assume the purple . 
By their decree , he was degraded from the rank of a praefect to the obscure condition of a plebeian , and ignominiously dragged by servile hands to the public prison . 
This letter does honor to his heart , as well as to his understanding . 
The prose of Sidonius , however vitiated by a false and affected taste , is much superior to his insipid verses . 
When the Capitol ceased to be a temple , it was appropriated to the use of the civil magistrate and it is still the residence of the Roman senator . 
, might be allowed to expose then precious wares in the porticos . 
Haec ad regem Gothorum , charta videbatur emitti , pacem cum Graeco Imperatore dissuadens , Britannos super Ligerim sitos impugnari oportere , demonstrans , cum Burgundionibus jure gentium Gallias dividi debere confirmans . 
but that law allowed only ten days between the sentence and execution the remaining twenty were added in the reign of Theodosius . 
He execrates the crimes , and applauds the punishment , of Seronatus , perhaps with the indignation of a virtuous citizen , perhaps with the resentment of a personal enemy . 
The peaceful and prosperous reign which Anthemius had promised to the West , was soon clouded by misfortune and discord . 
Their recommendation was approved and Epiphanius , assuming the benevolent office of mediation , proceeded without delay to Rome , where he was received with the honors due to his merit and reputation . 
Anthemius acknowledged the truth of his maxims but he deeply felt , with grief and indignation , the behavior of Ricimer , and his passion gave eloquence and energy to his discourse . 
The liberality which ought to have secured the eternal attachment of Ricimer has exasperated him against his benefactor . 
The clemency of the emperor was extorted from his weakness and Ricimer suspended his ambitious designs till he had secretly prepared the engines with which he resolved to subvert the throne of Anthemius . 
The mask of peace and moderation was then thrown aside . 
His sister had married the king of the Burgundians , and he maintained an intimate connection with the Suevic colony established in Pannonia and Noricum . 
applies this appellation to Anthemius himself . 
The emperor was probably born in the province of Galatia , whose inhabitants , the Gallo Grecians , were supposed to unite the vices of a savage and a corrupted people . 
has related this embassy of Epiphanius and his narrative , verbose and turgid as it must appear , illustrates some curious passages in the fall of the Western empire . 
The senator Olybrius , of the Anician family , might esteem himself the lawful heir of the Western empire . 
either at Ravenna , or the port of Ostia , and immediately proceeded to the camp of Ricimer , where he was received as the sovereign of the Western world . 
Eudoxia and her daughter were restored after the death of Majorian . 
Perhaps the consulship of Olybrius was bestowed as a nuptial present . 
by the duration of his reign . 
The secret connivance of Leo is acknowledged by Theophanes and the Paschal Chronicle . 
We are ignorant of his motives but in this obscure period , our ignorance extends to the most public and important facts . 
At length Ricimer made a furious assault on the bridge of Hadrian , or St . 
Angelo and the narrow pass was defended with equal valor by the Goths , till the death of Gilimer , their leader . 
was subverted by the civil fury of Anthemius and Ricimer . 
Of the fourteen regions , or quarters , into which Rome was divided by Augustus , only one , the Janiculum , lay on the Tuscan side of the Tyber . 
See Nardini Roma Antica , p . 
It would require a tedious dissertation to mark the circumstances , in which I am inclined to depart from the topography of that learned Roman . 
Nuper Anthemii et Ricimeris civili furore subversa est . 
with the aid of a less imperfect Ms. of the Historia Miscella . 
, have illustrated this dark and bloody transaction . 
and every cause of mischief had since acquired much additional energy . 
The revolution of ages may bring round the same calamities but ages may revolve without producing a Tacitus to describe them . 
See Ducange , Familiae Byzantin . 
Areobindus , who appears to have married the niece of the emperor Justinian , was the eighth descendant of the elder Theodosius . 
Chapter XXXVI Total Extinction Of The Western Empire . 
Part V. Whilst the vacant throne of Italy was abandoned to lawless Barbarians , the election of a new colleague was seriously agitated in the council of Leo . 
were confounded within the term of a single year , and the treaty of peace , which ceded Auvergue to the Visigoths , is the only event of his short and inglorious reign . 
If Photius had not been so wretchedly concise , we should derive much information from the contemporary histories of Malchus and Candidus . 
See his Extracts , p . 
By the murder or death of his two brothers , Gundobald acquired the sole possession of the kingdom of Burgundy , whose ruin was hastened by their discord . 
Julius Nepos armis pariter summus Augustus ac moribus . 
Nepos had given to Ecdicius the title of Patrician , which Anthemius had promised , decessoris Anthemii fidem absolvit . 
His pathetic discourse concealed the disgraceful secret which soon excited the just and bitter complaints of the bishop of Clermont . 
Some doubt may , however , be raised on the identity of the emperor and the archbishop . 
The example of these warriors was imitated by Orestes , the son of Tatullus , and the father of the last Roman emperor of the West . 
Orestes , who has been already mentioned in this History , had never deserted his country . 
His birth and fortunes rendered him one of the most illustrious subjects of Pannonia . 
The dangerous alliance of these strangers had oppressed and insulted the last remains of Roman freedom and dignity . 
His brother Paul was slain in an action near Ravenna and the helpless Augustulus , who could no longer command the respect , was reduced to implore the clemency , of Odoacer . 
Orestes , qui eo tempore quando Attila ad Italiam venit , se illi unxit , ejus notarius factus fuerat . 
He adds weight to the narrative of Procopius , though we may doubt whether the devil actually contrived the siege of Pavia , to distress the bishop and his flock . 
That successful Barbarian was the son of Edecon who , in some remarkable transactions , particularly described in a preceding chapter , had been the colleague of Orestes himself . 
The honor of an ambassador should be exempt from suspicion and Edecon had listened to a conspiracy against the life of his sovereign . 
Onulf directed his steps towards Constantinople , where he sullied , by the assassination of a generous benefactor , the fame which he had acquired in arms . 
your design proceed to Italy you will soon cast away this coarse garment of skins and your wealth will be adequate to the liberality of your mind . 
The Barbarian , whose daring spirit accepted and ratified the prediction , was admitted into the service of the Western empire , and soon obtained an honorable rank in the guards . 
Manso observes that the evidence which identifies Edecon , the father of Odoacer , with the colleague of Orestes , is not conclusive . 
Geschichte des Ost Gothischen Reiches , p . 
Martin inclines to agree with Gibbon , note , vi . 
has clearly explained the origin and adventures of Odoacer . 
I am almost inclined to believe that he was the same who pillaged Angers , and commanded a fleet of Saxon pirates on the ocean . 
Martin there is no foundation for this conjecture , vii M. Vade ad Italiam , vade vilissimis nunc pellibus coopertis sed multis cito plurima largiturus . 
He quotes the life of St . 
thirty years after his death . 
and as this strong expression will not bear a literal interpretation , it must be explained by long service in the Imperial guards . 
Nomen regis Odoacer assumpsit , cum tamen neque purpura nee regalibus uteretur insignibus . 
He seems to have assumed the abstract title of a king , without applying it to any particular nation or country . 
Note Manso observes that Odoacer never called himself king of Italy , assume the purple , and no coins are extant with his name . 
you have murdered the second you have expelled but the second is still alive , and whilst he lives he is your lawful sovereign . 
But the prudent Zeno soon deserted the hopeless cause of his abdicated colleague . 
this extraordinary embassy from the senate to Zeno . 
are likewise of some use . 
It was adorned by the new proprietor with Grecian arts and Asiatic treasures and the houses and gardens of Lucullus obtained a distinguished rank in the list of Imperial palaces . 
About twenty years after that great revolution , it was converted into a church and monastery , to receive the bones of St . 
The precise year in which the Western empire was extinguished , is not positively ascertained . 
The vulgar era of A. D. appears to have the sanction of authentic chronicles . 
many collateral circumstances in support of the same opinion . 
We may allege a famous and similar case . 
The meanest subjects of the Roman empire assumed the illustrious name of Patricius , which , by the conversion of Ireland has been communicated to a whole nation . 
in Lucullano Campaniae castello exilii poena damnavit . 
has thus described the situation Caesar Tiberius quum petens Neapolim , In Misenensem villam venissit suam Quae monte summo posita Luculli manu Prospectat Siculum et prospicit Tuscum mare . 
From seven myriads and a half to two hundred and fifty myriads of drachmae . 
Yet even in the possession of Marius , it was a luxurious retirement . 
The Romans derided his indolence they soon bewailed his activity . 
See Plutarch , in Mario , tom . 
Lucullus had other villa of equal , though various , magnificence , at Baiae , Naples , Tusculum , c . 
, He boasted that he changed his climate with the storks and cranes . 
Severinus died in Noricum , A. D. . 
Six years afterwards , his body , which scattered miracles as it passed , was transported by his disciples into Italy . 
The devotion of a Neapolitan lady invited the saint to the Lucullan villa , in the place of Augustulus , who was probably no more . 
from the original life by Eugippius . 
The narrative of the last migration of Severinus to Naples is likewise an authentic piece . 
Odoacer was the first Barbarian who reigned in Italy , over a people who had once asserted their just superiority above the rest of mankind . 
The disgrace of the Romans still excites our respectful compassion , and we fondly sympathize with the imaginary grief and indignation of their degenerate posterity . 
But the calamities of Italy had gradually subdued the proud consciousness of freedom and glory . 
After an interval of seven years , Odoacer restored the consulship of the West . 
The laws of the emperors were strictly enforced , and the civil administration of Italy was still exercised by the Praetorian praefect and his subordinate officers . 
Odoacer devolved on the Roman magistrates the odious and oppressive task of collecting the public revenue but he reserved for himself the merit of seasonable and popular indulgence . 
Italy was protected by the arms of its conqueror and its frontiers were respected by the Barbarians of Gaul and Germany , who had so long insulted the feeble race of Theodosius . 
Odoacer passed the Adriatic , to chastise the assassins of the emperor Nepos , and to acquire the maritime province of Dalmatia . 
He passed the Alps , to rescue the remains of Noricum from Fava , or Feletheus , king of the Rugians , who held his residence beyond the Danube . 
The consular Fasti may be found in Pagi or Muratori . 
The consuls named by Odoacer , or perhaps by the Roman senate , appear to have been acknowledged in the Eastern empire . 
Gennadius Avienus and Caecina Basilius . 
To the former he assigns the specious , to the latter the solid , virtues of public and private life . 
A Basilius junior , possibly his son , was consul in the year . 
Sixteen years afterwards the irregular proceedings of Basilius were condemned by Pope Symmachus in a Roman synod . 
and in the two Chronicles of Cassiodorus and Cuspinian . 
has diligently studied , illustrates the ruin of Noricum and the Bavarian antiquities Notwithstanding the prudence and success of Odoacer , his kingdom exhibited the sad prospect of misery and desolation . 
Ambrose has deplored the ruin of a populous district , which had been once adorned with the flourishing cities of Bologna , Modena , Regium , and Placentia . 
Pope Gelasius was a subject of Odoacer and he affirms , with strong exaggeration , that in Aemilia , Tuscany , and the adjacent provinces , the human species was almost extirpated . 
One third of those ample estates , to which the ruin of Italy is originally imputed , was extorted for the use of the conquerors . 
The least unfortunate were those who submitted without a murmur to the power which it was impossible to resist . 
A monarchy destitute of national union , and hereditary right , hastened to its dissolution . 
clearly state the progress of internal decay . 
I am ignorant from whence he derives his information but I am well assured that he relates some facts incompatible with the truth of history See the xxxixth epistle of St . 
Ambrose , as it is quoted by Muratori , sopra le Antichita Italiane , tom . 
Aemilia , Tuscia , ceteraeque provinciae in quibus hominum propenullus exsistit . 
Denina supposes that the Barbarians were compelled by necessity to turn their attention to agriculture . 
M. Verumque confitentibus , latifundia perdidere Italiam . 
suggests to his friend Papirius Paetus , under the military despotism of Caesar . 
M. Chapter XXXVII Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity . 
Part I. Origin Progress , And Effects Of The Monastic Life . 
Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity And Arianism . 
Persecution Of The Vandals In Africa . 
Extinction Of Arianism Among The Barbarians . 
I have purposely delayed the consideration of two religious events , interesting in the study of human nature , and important in the decline and fall of the Roman empire . 
I. The institution of the monastic life and , II . 
The conversion of the northern Barbarians . 
These authors are very learned , and tolerably honest , and their difference of opinion shows the subject in its full extent . 
Yet the cautious Protestant , who distrusts any popish guides , may consult the seventh book of Bingham's Christian Antiquities . 
I. Prosperity and peace introduced the distinction of the vulgar and the Ascetic Christians . 
The loose and imperfect practice of religion satisfied the conscience of the multitude . 
In the reign of Constantine , the Ascetics fled from a profane and degenerate world , to perpetual solitude , or religious society . 
But the votaries of this Divine Philosophy aspired to imitate a purer and more perfect model . 
asserts the Christianity of the Therapeutae but he appears ignorant that a similar institution was actually revived in Egypt . 
claims this origin for the institution of the Coenobites , which gradually decayed till it was restored by Antony and his disciples . 
It has before been shown that the first Christian community was not strictly coenobitic . 
have compared the Carmelites to the Pythagoreans , and the Cynics to the Capucins . 
and the statue of Elijah , the Carmelite , has been erected in the church of St . 
Gens sola , et in toto orbe praeter ceteras mira , sine ulla femina , omni venere abdicata , sine pecunia , socia palmarum . 
Ita per seculorum millia gens aeterna est in qua nemo nascitur . 
Tam foecunda illis aliorum vitae poenitentia est . 
He places them just beyond the noxious influence of the lake , and names Engaddi and Massada as the nearest towns . 
The Laura , and monastery of St . 
Sabas , could not be far distant from this place . 
Egypt , the fruitful parent of superstition , afforded the first example of the monastic life . 
Antony , an illiterate youth of the lower parts of Thebais , distributed his patrimony , deserted his family and native home , and executed his monastic penance with original and intrepid fanaticism . 
He enjoyed the friendship of Athanasius , whose doctrine he approved and the Egyptian peasant respectfully declined a respectful invitation from the emperor Constantine . 
beheld the numerous progeny which had been formed by his example and his lessons . 
The prolific colonies of monks multiplied with rapid increase on the sands of Libya , upon the rocks of Thebais , and in the cities of the Nile . 
In the Upper Thebais , the vacant island of Tabenne , was occupied by Pachomius and fourteen hundred of his brethren . 
That holy abbot successively founded nine monasteries of men , and one of women and the festival of Easter sometimes collected fifty thousand religious persons , who followed his angelic rule of discipline . 
The former is the Greek original the latter , a very ancient Latin version by Evagrius , the friend of St . 
and the assertion of his total ignorance has been received by many of the ancients and moderns . 
shows , by some probable arguments , that Antony could read and write in the Coptic , his native tongue and that he was only a stranger to the Greek letters . 
acknowledges that the natural genius of Antony did not require the aid of learning . 
the arura will consist of about three quarters of an English acre . 
Their accounts cannot always be reconciled the father painted from his fancy , and the Jesuit from his experience . 
visited and has described this desert , which now contains four monasteries , and twenty or thirty monks . 
See D'Anville , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
Jerom to his Latin version of the Rule of Pachomius , tom . 
He calls it civitas ampla ralde et populosa , and reckons twelve churches . 
have made honorable mention of Oxyrinchus , whose inhabitants adored a small fish in a magnificent temple . 
Quanti populi habentur in urbibus , tantae paene habentur in desertis multitudines monachorum . 
He congratulates the fortunate change . 
The strange and savage appearance of these Egyptians excited , at first , horror and contempt , and , at length , applause and zealous imitation . 
The fame of Basil is immortal in the monastic history of the East . 
The progress of the monks was not less rapid , or universal , than that of Christianity itself . 
The Latin Christians embraced the religious institutions of Rome . 
The pilgrims , who visited Jerusalem , eagerly copied , in the most distant climates of the earth , the faithful model of the monastic life . 
The disciples of Antony spread themselves beyond the tropic , over the Christian empire of Aethiopia . 
The introduction of the monastic life into Rome and Italy is occasionally mentioned by Jerom , tom . 
See the Life of Hilarion , by St . 
His original retreat was in a small village on the banks of the Iris , not far from Neo Caesarea . 
The ten or twelve years of his monastic life were disturbed by long and frequent avocations . 
Some critics have disputed the authenticity of his Ascetic rules but the external evidence is weighty , and they can only prove that it is the work of a real or affected enthusiast . 
that the booksellers of Rome were delighted with the quick and ready sale of his popular work . 
When Hilarion sailed from Paraetonium to Cape Pachynus , he offered to pay his passage with a book of the Gospels . 
Athanasius , who addressed his Life of St . 
See Jerom , Assemanni , Bibliot . 
, and Geddes , Church History of Aethiopia , p . 
The Abyssinian monks adhere very strictly to the primitive institution . 
All that learning can extract from the rubbish of the dark ages is copiously stated by Archbishop Usher in his Britannicarum Ecclesiarum Antiquitates , cap . 
This small , though not barren , spot , Iona , Hy , or Columbkill , only two miles in length , aud one mile in breadth , has been distinguished , . 
By the monastery of St . 
Columba , founded A. D. whose abbot exercised an extraordinary jurisdiction over the bishops of Caledonia . 
By a classic library , which afforded some hopes of an entire Livy and , . 
By the tombs of sixty kings , Scots , Irish , and Norwegians , who reposed in holy ground . 
These unhappy exiles from social life were impelled by the dark and implacable genius of superstition . 
But the operation of these religious motives was variously determined by the temper and situation of mankind . 
The popular monks , whose reputation was connected with the fame and success of the order , assiduously labored to multiply the number of their fellow captives . 
They insinuated themselves into noble and opulent families and the specious arts of flattery and seduction were employed to secure those proselytes who might bestow wealth or dignity on the monastic profession . 
Paula yielded to the persuasive eloquence of Jerom and the profane title of mother in law of God tempted that illustrious widow to consecrate the virginity of her daughter Eustochium . 
has consecrated three books to the praise and defence of the monastic life . 
and allows different degrees of glory , like the sun , moon , and stars . 
that the king will be more sparingly rewarded , and more rigorously punished . 
The monks were gradually adopted as a part of the ecclesiastical hierarchy . 
liberally censures the conduct and writings of Chrysostom , one of the most eloquent and successful advocates for the monastic life . 
is an elaborate and extravagant panegyric . 
who was justly scandalized , asks his adversary , from what Pagan poet he had stolen an expression so impious and absurd . 
Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
The Egyptian , who blamed Arsenius , owned that he led a more comfortable life as a monk than as a shepherd . 
who lodged at Cadiz in a convent of his brethren , soon understood that their repose was never interrupted by nocturnal devotion quoiqu'on ne laisse pas de sonner pour l'edification du peuple . 
See a very sensible preface of Lucas Holstenius to the Codex Regularum . 
Note The emperor Valens , in particular , promulgates a law contra ignavise quosdam sectatores , qui desertis civitatum muneribus , captant solitudines secreta , et specie religionis cum coetibus monachorum congregantur . 
G. The monastic profession of the ancients was an act of voluntary devotion . 
The inconstant fanatic was threatened with the eternal vengeance of the God whom he deserted but the doors of the monastery were still open for repentance . 
The examples of scandal , and the progress of superstition , suggested the propriety of more forcible restraints . 
After a sufficient trial , the fidelity of the novice was secured by a solemn and perpetual vow and his irrevocable engagement was ratified by the laws of the church and state . 
are incontestable proofs of their freedom which is elegantly described by Erasmus in his Life of St . 
and the actual jurisprudence of France , in Denissart , c . 
who , on this occasion , seems to be inspired by the genius of humanity . 
Praecipua ibi virtus et prima est obedientia . 
has observed the scandalous valor of the Cappadocian monks , which was exemplified in the banishment of Chrysostom . 
The father of the Benedictines expressly disclaims all idea of choice of merit and soberly exhorts his disciples to adopt the coarse and convenient dress of the countries which they may inhabit . 
They allowed themselves the use of linen in Egypt , where it was a cheap and domestic manufacture but in the West they rejected such an expensive article of foreign luxury . 
Thirty or forty brethren composed a family of separate discipline and diet and the great monasteries of Egypt consisted of thirty or forty families . 
attributes such allegorical meaning and virtue . 
boasts of Antony's holy horror of clear water , by which his feet were uncontaminated except under dire necessity M. Chapter XXXVII Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity . 
See the twelfth and twenty second Collations of Cassian , de Castitate and de Illusionibus Nocturnis . 
The rule of Isidore of Seville is the mildest on holidays he allows the use of flesh . 
State of Prisons , p . 
was invited by Serenus , an Egyptian abbot . 
See the Rule of St . 
Licet legamus vinum omnino monachorum non esse , sed quia nostris temporibus id monachis persuaderi non potest he allows them a Roman hemina , a measure which may be ascertained from Arbuthnot's Tables . 
The garden and fields , which the industry of the monks had often rescued from the forest or the morass , were diligently cultivated by their hands . 
The monastic studies have tended , for the most part , to darken , rather than to dispel , the cloud of superstition . 
and the rule of Columbanus punished them with six lashes . 
The ironical author of the Ordres Monastiques , who laughs at the foolish nicety of modern convents , seems ignorant that the ancients were equally absurd . 
have seriously examined the manual labor of the monks , which the former considers as a merit and the latter as a duty . 
has collected many curious facts to justify the literary labors of his predecessors , both in the East and West . 
and by the disciples of St . 
Cassiodorus has allowed an ample scope for the studies of the monks and we shall not be scandalized , if their pens sometimes wandered from Chrysostom and Augustin to Homer and Virgil . 
But the necessity of manual labor was insensibly superseded . 
As long as they maintained their original fervor , they approved themselves , however , the faithful and benevolent stewards of the charity , which was entrusted to their care . 
But their discipline was corrupted by prosperity they gradually assumed the pride of wealth , and at last indulged the luxury of expense . 
Their public luxury might be excused by the magnificence of religious worship , and the decent motive of erecting durable habitations for an immortal society . 
has examined the revolution of the civil , canon , and common law . 
Modern France confirms the death which monks have inflicted on themselves , and justly deprives them of all right of inheritance . 
Yet the wealth of the Eastern monks was far surpassed by the princely greatness of the Benedictines . 
restrains women from passing the night in a male , or men in a female , monastery . 
prohibits the erection of double or promiscuous monasteries of both sexes but it appears from Balsamon , that the prohibition was not effectual . 
On the irregular pleasures and expenses of the clergy and monks , see Thomassin , tom . 
I forget the consequences of his vow of chastity . 
Strangers , who professed the orthodox faith , were hospitably entertained in a separate apartment but their dangerous conversation was restricted to some chosen elders of approved discretion and fidelity . 
Study is the resource of solitude but education had not prepared and qualified for any liberal studies the mechanics and peasants who filled the monastic communities . 
Pior , an Egyptian monk , allowed his sister to see him but he shut his eyes during the whole visit . 
Many such examples might be added . 
In this comfortless state , superstition still pursued and tormented her wretched votaries . 
Their visions , before they attained this extreme and acknowledged term of frenzy , have afforded ample materials of supernatural history . 
Cassian , from his own experience , describes the acedia , or listlessness of mind and body , to which a monk was exposed , when he sighed to find himself alone . 
The temptations and sufferings of Stagirius were communicated by that unfortunate youth to his friend St . 
See Middleton's Works , vol . 
may serve as a memorable example . 
See the seventh and eighth Collations of Cassian , who gravely examines , why the demons were grown less active and numerous since the time of St . 
Rosweyde's copious index to the Vitae Patrum will point out a variety of infernal scenes . 
The devils were most formidable in a female shape . 
The monks were divided into two classes the Coenobites , who lived under a common and regular discipline and the Anachorets , who indulged their unsocial , independent fanaticism . 
The most devout , or the most ambitious , of the spiritual brethren , renounced the convent , as they had renounced the world . 
They sunk under the painful weight of crosses and chains and their emaciated limbs were confined by collars , bracelets , gauntlets , and greaves of massy and rigid iron . 
All superfluous encumbrance of dress they contemptuously cast away and some savage saints of both sexes have been admired , whose naked bodies were only covered by their long hair . 
who contrived any cell , or seat , of a peculiar construction , which might expose him , in the most inconvenient posture , to the inclemency of the seasons . 
and , above all , the eighteenth and nineteenth Collations of Cassian . 
These writers , who compare the common and solitary life , reveal the abuse and danger of the latter . 
gives a good account of these cells . 
When Gerasimus founded his monastery in the wilderness of Jordan , it was accompanied by a Laura of seventy cells . 
has collected the lives and miracles of thirty Anachorets . 
more briefly celebrates the monks and hermits of Palestine . 
examined the caverns of the Lower Thebais with wonder and devotion . 
The inscriptions are in the old Syriac character , which was used by the Christians of Abyssinia . 
Among these heroes of the monastic life , the name and genius of Simeon Stylites have been immortalized by the singular invention of an aerial penance . 
At the age of thirteen , the young Syrian deserted the profession of a shepherd , and threw himself into an austere monastery . 
In this last and lofty station , the Syrian Anachoret resisted the heat of thirty summers , and the cold of as many winters . 
Habit and exercise instructed him to maintain his dangerous situation without fear or giddiness , and successively to assume the different postures of devotion . 
The progress of an ulcer in his thigh might shorten , but it could not disturb , this celestial life and the patient Hermit expired , without descending from his column . 
The people who saw it from below might be easily deceived . 
I must not conceal a piece of ancient scandal concerning the origin of this ulcer . 
It has been reported that the Devil , assuming an angelic form , invited him to ascend , like Elijah , into a fiery chariot . 
The saint too hastily raised his foot , and Satan seized the moment of inflicting this chastisement on his vanity . 
The monastic saints , who excite only the contempt and pity of a philosopher , were respected , and almost adored , by the prince and people . 
These extravagant tales , which display the fiction without the genius , of poetry , have seriously affected the reason , the faith , and the morals , of the Christians . 
Their credulity debased and vitiated the faculties of the mind they corrupted the evidence of history and superstition gradually extinguished the hostile light of philosophy and science . 
I know not how to select or specify the miracles contained in the Vitae Patrum of Rosweyde , as the number very much exceeds the thousand pages of that voluminous work . 
An elegant specimen may be found in the dialogues of Sulpicius Severus , and his Life of St . 
He reveres the monks of Egypt yet he insults them with the remark , that they never raised the dead whereas the bishop of Tours had restored three dead men to life . 
Those involuntary missionaries , dispersed as slaves in the villages of Dacia , successively labored for the salvation of their masters . 
But the prosperous state of the Gothic church was soon afflicted by war and intestine discord , and the chieftains were divided by religion as well as by interest . 
These harmless Barbarians multiplied in obscure peace and the profession of Christianity . 
On the subject of Ulphilas , and the conversion of the Goths , see Sozomen , l . 
The heresy of Philostorgius appears to have given him superior means of information . 
This is the Moeso Gothic alphabet of which many of the letters are evidently formed from the Greek and Roman . 
Martin , however contends , that it is impossible but that some written alphabet must have been known long before among the Goths . 
He supposes that their former letters were those inscribed on the runes , which , being inseparably connected with the old idolatrous superstitions , were proscribed by the Christian missionaries . 
Everywhere the runes , so common among all the German tribes , disappear after the propagation of Christianity . 
Two of the four additional letters express the W , and our own Th . 
Critique du Nouveau Testament , tom ii . 
Note The Codex Argenteus , found in the sixteenth century at Wenden , near Cologne , and now preserved at Upsal , contains almost the entire four Gospels . 
The best edition is that of J. Christ . 
In Knettel discovered and published from a Palimpsest MS . 
four chapters of the Epistle to the Romans they were reprinted at Upsal , . 
M. Mai has since that time discovered further fragments , and other remains of Moeso Gothic literature , from a Palimpsest at Milan . 
See Ulphilae partium inedi arum in Ambrosianis Palimpsestis ab Ang . 
M. Philostorgius erroneously places this passage under the reign of Constantine but I am much inclined to believe that it preceded the great emigration . 
for a short and lively picture of these lesser Goths . 
Gothi minores , populus immensus , cum suo Pontifice ipsoque primate Wulfila . 
The last words , if they are not mere tautology , imply some temporal jurisdiction . 
Their fiercer brethren , the formidable Visigoths , universally adopted the religion of the Romans , with whom they maintained a perpetual intercourse , of war , of friendship , or of conquest . 
These Barbarian proselytes displayed an ardent and successful zeal in the propagation of the faith . 
The Merovingian kings , and their successors , Charlemagne and the Othos , extended , by their laws and victories , the dominion of the cross . 
England produced the apostle of Germany and the evangelic light was gradually diffused from the neighborhood of the Rhine , to the nations of the Elbe , the Vistula , and the Baltic . 
At non ita Gothi non ita Vandali malis licet doctoribus instituti meliores tamen etiam in hac parte quam nostri . 
Salvian , de Gubern , Dei , l . 
Mosheim has slightly sketched the progress of Christianity in the North , from the fourth to the fourteenth century . 
The subject would afford materials for an ecclesiastical and even philosophical , history Chapter XXXVII Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity . 
The different motives which influenced the reason , or the passions , of the Barbarian converts , cannot easily be ascertained . 
Admit , says the sagacious disputant , whatever they are pleased to assert of the fabulous , and carnal , genealogy of their gods and goddesses , who are propagated from each other . 
From this principle deduce their imperfect nature , and human infirmities , the assurance they were born , and the probability that they will die . 
This metaphysical reasoning , too refined , perhaps , for the Barbarians of Germany , was fortified by the grosser weight of authority and popular consent . 
The advantage of temporal prosperity had deserted the Pagan cause , and passed over to the service of Christianity . 
The valiant and fortunate Barbarians , who subdued the provinces of the West , successively received , and reflected , the same edifying example . 
Boniface , who preached the gospel among the savages of Hesse and Thuringia . 
, in the Maxima Bibliotheca Patrum , tom . 
the Mahometans , who reigned from India to Spain , might have retorted it against the Christians . 
Christianity , which opened the gates of Heaven to the Barbarians , introduced an important change in their moral and political condition . 
These spiritual gifts were preserved in the Greek and Latin languages , which concealed the inestimable monuments of ancient learning . 
But the direct authority of religion was less effectual than the holy communion , which united them with their Christian brethren in spiritual friendship . 
But the operation of these causes was checked and retarded by the unfortunate accident , which infused a deadly poison into the cup of Salvation . 
Whatever might be the early sentiments of Ulphilas , his connections with the empire and the church were formed during the reign of Arianism . 
The temper and understanding of the new proselytes were not adapted to metaphysical subtilties but they strenuously maintained , what they had piously received , as the pure and genuine doctrines of Christianity . 
This irreconcilable difference of religion was a perpetual source of jealousy and hatred and the reproach of Barbarian was imbittered by the more odious epithet of Heretic . 
Notwithstanding these provocations , the Catholics of Gaul , Spain , and Italy , enjoyed , under the reign of the Arians , the free and peaceful exercise of their religion . 
Their apostle represented the whole controversy as a question of trifling moment , which had been raised by the passions of the clergy . 
The Arianism of the Goths has been imputed to the emperor Valens Itaque justo Dei judicio ipsi eum vivum incenderunt , qui propter eum etiam mortui , vitio erroris arsuri sunt . 
who coolly observes , un seul homme entraina dans l'enfer un nombre infini de Septentrionaux , c . 
pities and excuses their involuntary error . 
were filled with Huns , Suevi , Vandals , Burgundians . 
Radbod , king of the Frisons , was so much scandalized by this rash declaration of a missionary , that he drew back his foot after he had entered the baptismal font . 
The history of Clovis and Theodoric will suggest some particular facts Genseric confessed the resemblance , by the severity with which he punished such indiscreet allusions . 
The peace of the church was sometimes interrupted . 
The Catholics were indiscreet , the Barbarians were impatient and the partial acts of severity or injustice , which had been recommended by the Arian clergy , were exaggerated by the orthodox writers . 
But the cruel and absurd enterprise of subduing the minds of a whole people was undertaken by the Vandals alone . 
Genseric himself , in his early youth , had renounced the orthodox communion and the apostate could neither grant , nor expect , a sincere forgiveness . 
His Catholic subjects were oppressed by intolerant laws and arbitrary punishments . 
Arms and ambition were , however , the ruling passions of the monarch of the sea . 
Their administration was hostile and oppressive to the orthodox party . 
His brother , Thrasimund , was the greatest and most accomplished of the Vandal kings , whom he excelled in beauty , prudence , and magnanimity of soul . 
But this magnanimous character was degraded by his intolerant zeal and deceitful clemency . 
Instead of threats and tortures , he employed the gentle , but efficacious , powers of seduction . 
Bigotry was his last sentiment in the hour of death and he exacted from his successor a solemn oath , that he would never tolerate the sectaries of Athanasius . 
a bishop who was exiled by Hunneric in the life of St . 
that he had faithfully transcribed the regulations and penalties of the Imperial edicts , against the heretical congregations , the clergy , and the people , who dissented from the established religion . 
If the rights of conscience had been understood , the Catholics must have condemned their past conduct or acquiesced in their actual suffering . 
But they still persisted to refuse the indulgence which they claimed . 
The practice of a conference , which the Catholics had so frequently used to insult and punish their obstinate antagonists , was retorted against themselves . 
The disputants were separated , after the mutual and ordinary reproaches of noise and silence , of delay and precipitation , of military force and of popular clamor . 
They disobeyed , and their disobedience was punished by a second exile of two hundred and twenty bishops into Sardinia where they languished fifteen years , till the accession of the gracious Hilderic . 
The two islands were judiciously chosen by the malice of their Arian tyrants . 
Seneca , from his own experience , has deplored and exaggerated the miserable state of Corsica , and the plenty of Sardinia was overbalanced by the unwholesome quality of the air . 
The zeal of Generic and his successors , for the conversion of the Catholics , must have rendered them still more jealous to guard the purity of the Vandal faith . 
The citizens who had been educated in the luxury of the Roman province , were delivered , with exquisite cruelty , to the Moors of the desert . 
V. It is incumbent on the authors of persecution previously to reflect , whether they are determined to support it in the last extreme . 
They excite the flame which they strive to extinguish and it soon becomes necessary to chastise the contumacy , as well as the crime , of the offender . 
Through the veil of fiction and declamation we may clearly perceive , that the Catholics more especially under the reign of Hunneric , endured the most cruel and ignominious treatment . 
Respectable citizens , noble matrons , and consecrated virgins , were stripped naked , and raised in the air by pulleys , with a weight suspended at their feet . 
In this painful attitude their naked bodies were torn with scourges , or burnt in the most tender parts with red hot plates of iron . 
A new mode of conversion , which might subdue the feeble , and alarm the timorous , was employed by the Arian ministers . 
The Arian clergy surpassed in religious cruelty the king and his Vandals but they were incapable of cultivating the spiritual vineyard , which they were so desirous to possess . 
This engagement , consistent , as it should seem , with their moral and religious duties , was refused by the more sagacious members of the assembly . 
Their refusal , faintly colored by the pretence that it is unlawful for a Christian to swear , must provoke the suspicions of a jealous tyrant . 
Hunneric refuses the name of Catholics to the Homoousians . 
Victor , ii , , p . 
In the Mss which omit this word , the passage is unintelligible . 
The clergy of Carthage called these conditions periculosoe and they seem , indeed , to have been proposed as a snare to entrap the Catholic bishops . 
See the narrative of this conference , and the treatment of the bishops , in Victor , ii . 
and the whole fourth book p . 
The third book , p . 
, is entirely filled by their apology or confession of faith . 
See the list of the African bishops , in Victor , p . 
, and Ruinart's notes , p . 
the pious appellations of Deodatus , Deogratias , Quidvultdeus , Habetdeum , c . 
Note These names appear to have been introduced by the Donatists . 
Thrasimund affected the praise of moderation and learning and Fulgentius addressed three books of controversy to the Arian tyrant , whom he styles piissime Rex . 
See the base and insipid epigrams of the Stoic , who could not support exile with more fortitude than Ovid . 
Corsica might not produce corn , wine , or oil but it could not be destitute of grass , water , and even fire . 
Si ob gravitatem coeli interissent vile damnum . 
In this application , Thrasimund would have adopted the reading of some critics , utile damnum . 
See these preludes of a general persecution , in Victor , ii . 
, , and the two edicts of Hunneric , l . 
A Moorish prince endeavored to propitiate the God of the Christians , by his diligence to erase the marks of the Vandal sacrilege . 
See this story in Victor . 
Victor describes the distress of these confessors as an eye witness . 
See the fifth book of Victor . 
His passionate complaints are confirmed by the sober testimony of Procopius , and the public declaration of the emperor Justinian . 
After relating the firm resistance and dexterous reply of Count Sebastian , he adds , quare alio generis argumento postea bellicosum virum eccidit . 
Primate was more properly the title of the bishop of Carthage but the name of patriarch was given by the sects and nations to their principal ecclesiastic . 
See Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
Nescio Latine and he might converse with tolerable ease , without being capable of disputing or preaching in that language . 
His Vandal clergy were still more ignorant and small confidence could be placed in the Africans who had conformed . 
He appeals to the ambassador himself , whose name was Uranius . 
Astutiores , Victor , iv . 
He plainly intimates that their quotation of the gospel Non jurabitis in toto , was only meant to elude the obligation of an inconvenient oath . 
The forty six bishops who refused were banished to Corsica the three hundred and two who swore were distributed through the provinces of Africa . 
Chapter XXXVII Conversion Of The Barbarians To Christianity . 
Part V. The Catholics , oppressed by royal and military force , were far superior to their adversaries in numbers and learning . 
With the same weapons which the Greek and Latin fathers had already provided for the Arian controversy , they repeatedly silenced , or vanquished , the fierce and illiterate successors of Ulphilas . 
The consciousness of their own superiority might have raised them above the arts and passions of religious warfare . 
Even the Scriptures themselves were profaned by their rash and sacrilegious hands . 
It was first alleged by the Catholic bishops whom Hunneric summoned to the conference of Carthage . 
Fulgentius , bishop of Ruspae , in the Byzacene province , was of a senatorial family , and had received a liberal education . 
Many African bishops might understand Greek , and many Greek theologians were translated into Latin . 
He might amuse his learned reader with an innocent fiction but the subject was too grave , and the Africans were too ignorant . 
The P. Quesnel started this opinion , which has been favorably received . 
Athanasius is not the author of the creed which is so frequently read in our churches . 
It does not appear to have existed within a century after his death . 
It was originally composed in the Latin tongue , and , consequently in the Western provinces . 
Gennadius patriarch of Constantinople , was so much amazed by this extraordinary composition , that he frankly pronounced it to be the work of a drunken man . 
Critique du Nouveau Testament , part i . 
and the elaborate Prolegomena and Annotations of Dr . 
Mill and Wetstein to their editions of the Greek Testament . 
See the pamphlets of the late Bishop of Salisbury and of Crito Cantabrigiensis , Dr . 
The orthodox copies of the Vatican , of the Complutensian editors , of Robert Stephens , are become invisible and the two Mss. of Dublin and Berlin are unworthy to form an exception . 
See Emlyn's Works , vol . 
p , and M. de Missy's four ingenious letters , in tom . 
Or , more properly , by the four bishops who composed and published the profession of faith in the name of their brethren . 
It is quoted soon afterwards by the African polemics , Vigilius and Fulgentius . 
the oldest and the fairest two qualities seldom united , except in manuscripts . 
The art which the Germans had invented was applied in Italy to the profane writers of Rome and Greece . 
by the industry of Erasmus , and the munificence of Cardinal Ximenes . 
The Complutensian Polyglot cost the cardinal , ducats . 
, and Wetstein , Prolegomena , p . 
Yet the historian , who views this religious conflict with an impartial eye , may condescend to mention one preternatural event , which will edify the devout , and surprise the incredulous . 
Tipasa , a maritime colony of Mauritania , sixteen miles to the east of Caesarea , had been distinguished , in every age , by the orthodox zeal of its inhabitants . 
They had braved the fury of the Donatists they resisted , or eluded , the tyranny of the Arians . 
Their disobedience exasperated the cruelty of Hunneric . 
At Constantinople we are astonished to find a cool , a learned , and unexceptionable witness , without interest , and without passion . 
Aeneas of Gaza , a Platonic philosopher , has accurately described his own observations on these African sufferers . 
was a town of some note since Vespasian endowed it with the right of Latium . 
Aeneas Gazaeus in Theophrasto , in Biblioth . 
on the immortality of the soul , and the resurrection of the body besides twenty five Epistles , still extant . 
Two of them lost their speech by fornication but the miracle is enhanced by the singular instance of a boy who had never spoken before his tongue was cut out . 
The Vandals and the Ostrogoths persevered in the profession of Arianism till the final ruin of the kingdoms which they had founded in Africa and Italy . 
The Barbarians of Gaul submitted to the orthodox dominion of the Franks and Spain was restored to the Catholic church by the voluntary conversion of the Visigoths . 
This salutary revolution was hastened by the example of a royal martyr , whom our calmer reason may style an ungrateful rebel . 
Love and honor might excite Hermenegild to resent this injurious treatment of his bride and he was gradually persuaded that Ingundis suffered for the cause of divine truth . 
Leovigild was still mindful of that sacred character and the rebel , despoiled of the regal ornaments , was still permitted , in a decent exile , to profess the Catholic religion . 
The inflexible constancy with which he refused to accept the Arian communion , as the price of his safety , may excuse the honors that have been paid to the memory of St . 
His wife and infant son were detained by the Romans in ignominious captivity and this domestic misfortune tarnished the glories of Leovigild , and imbittered the last moments of his life . 
Mariana almost forgets that he is a Jesuit , to assume the style and spirit of a Roman classic . 
Ferreras , an industrious compiler , reviews his facts , and rectifies his chronology . 
Iracundiae furore succensa , adprehensam per comam capitis puellam in terram conlidit , et diu calcibus verberatam , ac sanguins cruentatam , jussit exspoliari , et piscinae immergi . 
Gregory is one of our best originals for this portion of history . 
His son and successor , Recared , the first Catholic king of Spain , had imbibed the faith of his unfortunate brother , which he supported with more prudence and success . 
Instead of revolting against his father , Recared patiently expected the hour of his death . 
Instead of condemning his memory , he piously supposed , that the dying monarch had abjured the errors of Arianism , and recommended to his son the conversion of the Gothic nation . 
To accomplish that salutary end , Recared convened an assembly of the Arian clergy and nobles , declared himself a Catholic , and exhorted them to imitate the example of their prince . 
Martin of Tours , which had already converted the Suevic prince and people of Gallicia . 
The Catholic king encountered some difficulties on this important change of the national religion . 
A conspiracy , secretly fomented by the queen dowager , was formed against his life and two counts excited a dangerous revolt in the Narbonnese Gaul . 
But Recared disarmed the conspirators , defeated the rebels , and executed severe justice which the Arians , in their turn , might brand with the reproach of persecution . 
The royal proselyte immediately saluted and consulted Pope Gregory , surnamed the Great , a learned and holy prelate , whose reign was distinguished by the conversion of heretics and infidels . 
The ambassadors of Recared respectfully offered on the threshold of the Vatican his rich presents of gold and gems they accepted , as a lucrative exchange , the hairs of St . 
This miracle was skilfully performed . 
An Arian king sealed the doors , and dug a deep trench round the church , without being able to intercept the Easter supply of baptismal water . 
has illustrated the difficulties which regard the time and circumstances of the conversion of the Suevi . 
They had been recently united by Leovigild to the Gothic monarchy of Spain . 
, apud Baronium , Annal . 
A. D. , No. , . 
Her devout labors still left room for the industry and success of future missionaries and many cities of Italy were still disputed by hostile bishops . 
The pious deacon does not attempt to mark the precise era of the national conversion , which was accomplished , however , before the end of the seventh century . 
The first missionaries who preached the gospel to the Barbarians , appealed to the evidence of reason , and claimed the benefit of toleration . 
But no sooner had they established their spiritual dominion , than they exhorted the Christian kings to extirpate , without mercy , the remains of Roman or Barbaric superstition . 
That exiled nation had founded some synagogues in the cities of Gaul but Spain , since the time of Hadrian , was filled with their numerous colonies . 
Sisebut , a Gothic king , who reigned in the beginning of the seventh century , proceeded at once to the last extremes of persecution . 
But the tyrants were unwilling to dismiss the victims , whom they delighted to torture , or to deprive themselves of the industrious slaves , over whom they might exercise a lucrative oppression . 
The Jews still continued in Spain , under the weight of the civil and ecclesiastical laws , which in the same country have been faithfully transcribed in the Code of the Inquisition . 
The Gothic kings and bishops at length discovered , that injuries will produce hatred , and that hatred will find the opportunity of revenge . 
A nation , the secret or professed enemies of Christianity , still multiplied in servitude and distress and the intrigues of the Jews promoted the rapid success of the Arabian conquerors . 
Quorum fidei et conversioni ita congratulatus esse rex perhibetur , ut nullum tamen cogeret ad Christianismum . 
Didiceret enim a doctoribus auctoribusque suae salutis , servitium Christi voluntarium non coactitium esse debere . 
See the Historians of France , tom . 
and Wilkins , Leges Anglo Saxonicae , p . 
Siquis sacrificium immolaverit praeter Deo soli morte moriatur . 
Note Compare Milman , Hist . 
M As soon as the Barbarians withdrew their powerful support , the unpopular heresy of Arius sunk into contempt and oblivion . 
The historian of the empire may overlook those disputes which were confined to the obscurity of schools and synods . 
The rational opinions of the Pelagians were propagated from Britain to Rome , Africa , and Palestine , and silently expired in a superstitious age . 
But the East was distracted by the Nestorian and Eutychian controversies which attempted to explain the mystery of the incarnation , and hastened the ruin of Christianity in her native land . 
These controversies were first agitated under the reign of the younger Theodosius but their important consequences extend far beyond the limits of the present volume . 
Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
Part I. Reign And Conversion Of Clovis . 
His Victories Over The Alemanni , Burgundians , And Visigoths . 
Establishment Of The French Monarchy In Gaul . 
Conquest Of Britain By The Saxons . 
The protection of the republic has delivered Gaul from internal discord and foreign invasions . 
By the loss of national independence , you have acquired the name and privileges of Roman citizens . 
You enjoy , in common with yourselves , the permanent benefits of civil government and your remote situation is less exposed to the accidental mischiefs of tyranny . 
Instead of exercising the rights of conquest , we have been contented to impose such tributes as are requisite for your own preservation . 
Peace cannot be secured without armies and armies must be supported at the expense of the people . 
Your imaginary freedom would be insulted and oppressed by a savage master and the expulsion of the Romans would be succeeded by the eternal hostilities of the Barbarian conquerors . 
This salutary advice was accepted , and this strange prediction was accomplished . 
The liberal studies were still cultivated in the schools of Autun and Bordeaux and the language of Cicero and Virgil was familiar to the Gallic youth . 
Their ears were astonished by the harsh and unknown sounds of the Germanic dialect , and they ingeniously lamented that the trembling muses fled from the harmony of a Burgundian lyre . 
In this chapter I shall draw my quotations from the Recueil des Historiens des Gaules et de la France , Paris , , in eleven volumes in folio . 
Such a national work , which will be continued to the year , might provoke our emulation . 
To abridge Tacitus would indeed be presumptuous but I may select the general ideas which he applies to the present state and future revelations of Gaul . 
Eadem semper causa Germanis transcendendi in Gallias libido atque avaritiae et mutandae sedis amor ut relictis paludibus et solitudinibus , suis , fecundissimum hoc solum vosque ipsos possiderent . 
As soon as Odoacer had extinguished the Western empire , he sought the friendship of the most powerful of the Barbarians . 
The lawful pretensions of Euric were justified by ambition and success and the Gothic nation might aspire , under his command , to the monarchy of Spain and Gaul . 
Arles and Marseilles surrendered to his arms he oppressed the freedom of Auvergne and the bishop condescended to purchase his recall from exile by a tribute of just , but reluctant praise . 
The tall Burgundians submitted to his authority nor did he restore the captive Franks , till he had imposed on that fierce nation the terms of an unequal peace . 
The Vandals of Africa cultivated his useful friendship and the Ostrogoths of Pannonia were supported by his powerful aid against the oppression of the neighboring Huns . 
without the authority of some Ms. Sidonius , l . 
justifies , in some measure , this portrait of the Gothic hero . 
I use the familiar appellation of Clovis , from the Latin Chlodovechus , or Chlodovoeus . 
While Childeric , the father of Clovis , lived an exile in Germany , he was hospitably entertained by the queen , as well as by the king , of the Thuringians . 
After each successful battle or expedition , the spoils were accumulated in one common mass every warrior received his proportionable share and the royal prerogative submitted to the equal regulations of military law . 
The untamed spirit of the Barbarians was taught to acknowledge the advantages of regular discipline . 
At the annual review of the month of March , their arms were diligently inspected and when they traversed a peaceful territory , they were prohibited from touching a blade of grass . 
The justice of Clovis was inexorable and his careless or disobedient soldiers were punished with instant death . 
It would be superfluous to praise the valor of a Frank but the valor of Clovis was directed by cool and consummate prudence . 
has the merit of defining the primitive kingdom of Clovis , and of ascertaining the genuine number of his subjects . 
Ecclesiam incultam ac negligentia civium Paganorum praetermis sam , veprium densitate oppletam , c . 
This description supposes that Arras was possessed by the Pagans many years before the baptism of Clovis . 
contrasts the poverty of Clovis with the wealth of his grandsons . 
mentions his paternas opes , as sufficient for the redemption of captives . 
The famous story of the vase of Soissons explains both the power and the character of Clovis . 
As a point of controversy , it has been strangely tortured by Boulainvilliers Dubos , and the other political antiquarians . 
the political system of Clovis . 
The first exploit of Clovis was the defeat of Syagrius , the son of Aegidius and the public quarrel might , on this occasion , be inflamed by private resentment . 
The glory of the father still insulted the Merovingian race the power of the son might excite the jealous ambition of the king of the Franks . 
As a Roman , he had been educated in the liberal studies of rhetoric and jurisprudence but he was engaged by accident and policy in the familiar use of the Germanic idiom . 
The independent Barbarians resorted to the tribunal of a stranger , who possessed the singular talent of explaining , in their native tongue , the dictates of reason and equity . 
to deprive him of Beauvais and Amiens . 
has prudently substituted the name of Patricius for the incredible title of Rex Romanorum . 
who styles him the Solon , the Amphion , of the Barbarians , addresses this imaginary king in the tone of friendship and equality . 
has diligently ascertained this field of battle , at Nogent , a Benedictine abbey , about ten miles to the north of Soissons . 
The ground was marked by a circle of Pagan sepulchres and Clovis bestowed the adjacent lands of Leully and Coucy on the church of Rheims . 
, and the Notitiae , tom . 
The three Fabricae of Soissons were , Seutaria , Balistaria , and Clinabaria . 
The last supplied the complete armor of the heavy cuirassiers . 
ut Gothorum pavere mos est . 
The name of the Alemanni has been absurdly derived from their imaginary settlement on the banks of the Leman Lake . 
That fortunate district , from the lake to the Avenche , and Mount Jura , was occupied by the Burgundians . 
The northern parts of Helvetia had indeed been subdued by the ferocious Alemanni , who destroyed with their own hands the fruits of their conquest . 
The Franks , after an obstinate struggle , gave way and the Alemanni , raising a shout of victory , impetuously pressed their retreat . 
After the conquest of the Western provinces , the Franks alone maintained their ancient habitations beyond the Rhine . 
Populi habitantes juxta Lemannum lacum , Alemanni dicuntur . 
has only alleged the more recent and corrupt text of Isidore of Seville . 
Gregory of Tours sends St . 
Lupicinus inter illa Jurensis deserti secreta , quae , inter Burgundiam Alamanniamque sita , Aventicae adja cent civitati , in tom . 
has accurately defined the Helvetian limits of the Duchy of Alemannia , and the Transjurane Burgundy . 
See Guilliman de Rebus Helveticis , l i . 
Within the ancient walls of Vindonissa , the castle of Hapsburgh , the abbey of Konigsfield , and the town of Bruck , have successively risen . 
The philosophic traveller may compare the monuments of Roman conquest of feudal or Austrian tyranny , of monkish superstition , and of industrious freedom . 
If he be truly a philosopher , he will applaud the merit and happiness of his own times . 
represent the defeat of the Alemanni . 
Some of their tribes settled in Rhaetia , under the protection of Theodoric whose successors ceded the colony and their country to the grandson of Clovis . 
Till the thirtieth year of his age , Clovis continued to worship the gods of his ancestors . 
It was her interest , as well as her duty , to achieve the conversion of a Pagan husband and Clovis insensibly listened to the voice of love and religion . 
to the baptism of his eldest son and though the sudden death of the infant excited some superstitious fears , he was persuaded , a second time , to repeat the dangerous experiment . 
The important ceremony was performed in the cathedral of Rheims , with every circumstance of magnificence and solemnity that could impress an awful sense of religion on the minds of its rude proselytes . 
But the savage conqueror of Gaul was incapable of examining the proofs of a religion , which depends on the laborious investigation of historic evidence and speculative theology . 
He was still more incapable of feeling the mild influence of the gospel , which persuades and purifies the heart of a genuine convert . 
Martin , the most popular of the saints , had filled the Western world with the fame of those miracles which were incessantly performed at his holy sepulchre of Tours . 
His visible or invisible aid promoted the cause of a liberal and orthodox prince and the profane remark of Clovis himself , that St . 
Martin was an expensive friend , need not be interpreted as the symptom of any permanent or rational scepticism . 
But earth , as well as heaven , rejoiced in the conversion of the Franks . 
On the memorable day when Clovis ascended from the baptismal font , he alone , in the Christian world , deserved the name and prerogatives of a Catholic king . 
The emperor Anastasius entertained some dangerous errors concerning the nature of the divine incarnation and the Barbarians of Italy , Africa , Spain , and Gaul , were involved in the Arian heresy . 
Clotilda , or rather Gregory , supposes that Clovis worshipped the gods of Greece and Rome . 
may be heard without disdain . 
Tradition might long preserve some curious circumstances of these important transactions . 
do not correspond with the splendid praise of Sidonius . 
The authority of ancient MSS . 
of the church of Rheims might inspire some confidence , which is destroyed , however , by the selfish and audacious fictions of Hincmar . 
was brought down by a white dove , for the baptism of Clovis and it is still used and renewed , in the coronation of the kings of France . 
has undermined , with profound respect and consummate dexterity . 
Mitis depone colla , Sicamber adora quod incendisti , incende quod adorasti . 
Si ego ibidem cum Francis meis fuissem , injurias ejus vindicassem . 
and the Chroniques de St . 
as an admirable effusion of Christian zeal . 
after coolly relating the repeated crimes , and affected remorse , of Clovis , concludes , perhaps undesignedly , with a lesson , which ambition will never hear . 
After the Gothic victory , Clovis made rich offerings to St . 
This miracle provoked the king to exclaim , Vere B. Martinus est bonus in auxilio , sed carus in negotio . 
and many of the Latin bishops would assure him of their joy and attachment . 
Their successful opposition introduced an equal and honorable union . 
The Franks esteemed the valor of the Armoricans and the Armoricans were reconciled by the religion of the Franks . 
The extreme fortifications , and scattered fragments of the empire , were still defended by their hopeless courage . 
But their retreat was intercepted , and their communication was impracticable they were abandoned by the Greek princes of Constantinople , and they piously disclaimed all connection with the Arian usurpers of Gaul . 
But the national strength was increased by these powerful and voluntary accessions and the neighboring kingdoms dreaded the numbers , as well as the spirit , of the Franks . 
His savage character , and the virtues of Henry IV . 
Instead of an unknown people , who now appear on the text of Procopious , Hadrian de Valois has restored the proper name of the easy correction has been almost universally approved . 
Note Compare Hallam's Europe during the Middle Ages , vol i . 
illustrates the origin of the French monarchy . 
Yet I must observe , . 
That the Greek historian betrays an inexcusable ignorance of the geography of the West . 
That these treaties and privileges , which should leave some lasting traces , are totally invisible in Gregory of Tours , the Salic laws , c . 
The sceptre was in the hands of Gundobald . 
A vain conference was agitated between the two factions . 
A sanguinary and covetous mind is not the symptom of a sincere conversion let him show his faith by his works . 
The answer of Avitus , bishop of Vienna , who spoke in the name of his brethren , was delivered with the voice and countenance of an angel . 
Return , with thy people , to the law of God , and he will give peace and security to thy dominions . 
Regnum circa Rhodanum aut Ararim cum provincia Massiliensi retinebant . 
Yet I would except Vindonissa . 
The bishop , who lived under the Pagan Alemanni , would naturally resort to the synods of the next Christian kingdom . 
has explained many circumstances relative to the Burgundian monarchy . 
to prove that Gundobald affected to deplore the tragic event , which his subjects affected to applaud . 
Avitus , the principal actor , and probably the secretary of the meeting , was bishop of Vienna . 
Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
The allegiance of his brother was already seduced and the obedience of Godegesil , who joined the royal standard with the troops of Geneva , more effectually promoted the success of the conspiracy . 
A long siege and an artful negotiation , admonished the king of the Franks of the danger and difficulty of his enterprise . 
Clovis no longer possessed those advantages which had assured the success of the preceding war and his rival , instructed by adversity , had found new resources in the affections of his people . 
The Gauls or Romans applauded the mild and impartial laws of Gundobald , which almost raised them to the same level with their conquerors . 
indulges his genius , or rather describes some more eloquent writer , in the description of Dijon a castle , which already deserved the title of a city . 
It depended on the bishops of Langres till the twelfth century , and afterwards became the capital of the dukes of Burgundy Longuerue Description de la France , part i . 
has supplied this number of Franks but he rashly supposes that they were cut in pieces by Gundobald . 
The prudent Burgundian spared the soldiers of Clovis , and sent these captives to the king of the Visigoths , who settled them in the territory of Thoulouse . 
that some critics have supposed two different wars . 
has distinctly represented the causes and the events . 
I am impatient to pursue the final ruin of that kingdom , which was accomplished under the reign of Sigismond , the son of Gundobald . 
He soon discovered his error , and bewailed the irreparable loss . 
The reproaches of a guilty conscience were alleviated , however , by his liberal donations to the monastery of Agaunum , or St . 
Maurice , in Vallais which he himself had founded in honor of the imaginary martyrs of the Thebaean legion . 
His prayer was heard the avengers were at hand and the provinces of Burgundy were overwhelmed by an army of victorious Franks . 
A martyr ! how strangely has that word been distorted from its original sense of a common witness . 
Sigismond was remarkable for the cure of fevers Before the end of the fifth century , the church of St . 
Maurice , and his Thebaean legion , had rendered Agaunum a place of devout pilgrimage . 
A promiscuous community of both sexes had introduced some deeds of darkness , which were abolished by the regular monastery of Sigismond . 
Within fifty years , his angels of light made a nocturnal sally to murder their bishop , and his clergy . 
the curious remarks of a learned librarian of Geneva . 
has expressed the principal facts , of the life of Sigismond , and the conquest of Burgundy . 
show their remote and imperfect knowledge . 
The first victory of Clovis had insulted the honor of the Goths . 
They viewed his rapid progress with jealousy and terror and the youthful fame of Alaric was oppressed by the more potent genius of his rival . 
Some disputes inevitably arose on the edge of their contiguous dominions and after the delays of fruitless negotiation , a personal interview of the two kings was proposed and accepted . 
The conference of Clovis and Alaric was held in a small island of the Loire , near Amboise . 
They embraced , familiarly conversed , and feasted together and separated with the warmest professions of peace and brotherly love . 
But their apparent confidence concealed a dark suspicion of hostile and treacherous designs and their mutual complaints solicited , eluded , and disclaimed , a final arbitration . 
It grieves me to see that the Arians still possess the fairest portion of Gaul . 
Let us march against them with the aid of God and , having vanquished the heretics , we will possess and divide their fertile provinces . 
The enterprise was promoted by the public or private exhortations of Clotilda . 
on that spot where my Francisca , shall fall , will I erect a church in honor of the holy apostles . 
This ostentatious piety confirmed and justified the attachment of the Catholics , with whom he secretly corresponded and their devout wishes were gradually ripened into a formidable conspiracy . 
To resist these foreign and domestic enemies , who were fortified by the alliance of the Burgundians , Alaric collected his troops , far more numerous than the military powers of Clovis . 
But the sagacious monarch dreaded the rising empire of Clovis , and he was firmly engaged to support the national and religious cause of the Goths . 
inserts the short but persuasive speech of Clovis . 
camus cum Dei adjutorio , et , superatis eis , redigamus terram in ditionem nostram . 
Tunc rex projecit a se in directum Bipennem suam quod est Francisca , c . 
Examples of its national appellation in Latin and French may be found in the Glossary of Ducange , and the large Dictionnaire de Trevoux . 
which obliged all masters to arm , and send , or lead , into the field a tenth of their slaves . 
The accidental , or artificial , prodigies which adorned the expedition of Clovis , were accepted by a superstitious age , as the manifest declaration of the divine favor . 
He marched from Paris and as he proceeded with decent reverence through the holy diocese of Tours , his anxiety tempted him to consult the shrine of St . 
Martin , the sanctuary and the oracle of Gaul . 
His messengers were instructed to remark the words of the Psalm which should happen to be chanted at the precise moment when they entered the church . 
The counsels of the Visigoths were irresolute and distracted . 
After Clovis had passed the ford , as it is still named , of the Hart , he advanced with bold and hasty steps to prevent the escape of the enemy . 
Hilary , was compared to the column of fire that guided the Israelites in the desert . 
At the third hour of the day , about ten miles beyond Poitiers , Clovis overtook , and instantly attacked , the Gothic army whose defeat was already prepared by terror and confusion . 
Yet they rallied in their extreme distress , and the martial youths , who had clamorously demanded the battle , refused to survive the ignominy of flight . 
The two kings encountered each other in single combat . 
Perhaps these suspected Catholics had been maliciously exposed to the blind assault of the enemy and perhaps the influence of religion was superseded by personal attachment or military honor . 
See a curious dissertation of the Abbe du Resnel , in the Memoires de l'Academie , tom . 
Clovis overtook and attacked the Visigoths near Vivonne , and the victory was decided near a village still named Champagne St . 
See the Dissertations of the Abbe le Boeuf , tom . 
that it is almost equally difficult to foresee the events of war , or to explain their various consequences . 
The decisive battle of Poitiers was followed by the conquest of Aquitain . 
The victorious king of the Franks proceeded without delay to the siege of Angouleme . 
But the Visigoths were protected by the wise and powerful monarch of Italy . 
These vicissitudes inclined the fierce spirit of Clovis to acquiesce in an advantageous treaty of peace . 
relates , in the allegorical character of a shepherd , the general history of his countrymen the Franks but his narrative ends with the death of Clovis . 
In the composition of the Gothic war , I have used the following materials , with due regard to their unequal value . 
After the success of the Gothic war , Clovis accepted the honors of the Roman consulship . 
On the solemn day , the monarch of Gaul , placing a diadem on his head , was invested , in the church of St . 
Martin , with a purple tunic and mantle . 
The actual or legal authority of Clovis could not receive any new accessions from the consular dignity . 
is overturned by the similar silence of Marius , bishop of Avenche , who composed his Fasti in the kingdom of Burgundy . 
Twenty five years after the death of Clovis this important concession was more formally declared , in a treaty between his sons and the emperor Justinian . 
A Greek historian of that age has praised the private and public virtues of the Franks , with a partial enthusiasm , which cannot be sufficiently justified by their domestic annals . 
Perhaps the Franks already displayed the social disposition , and lively graces , which , in every age , have disguised their vices , and sometimes concealed their intrinsic merit . 
Perhaps Agathias , and the Greeks , were dazzled by the rapid progress of their arms , and the splendor of their empire . 
Since the conquest of Burgundy , Gaul , except the Gothic province of Septimania , was subject , in its whole extent , to the sons of Clovis . 
They had extinguished the German kingdom of Thuringia , and their vague dominion penetrated beyond the Rhine , into the heart of their native forests . 
When the last survivor of the sons of Clovis united the inheritance and conquests of the Merovingians , his kingdom extended far beyond the limits of modern France . 
Under the Merovingian kings , Marseilles still imported from the East paper , wine , oil , linen , silk , precious stones , spices , c . 
The Gauls , or Franks , traded to Syria , and the Syrians were established in Gaul . 
See M. de Guignes , Mem . 
would almost suffice to justify the Abbe Dubos . 
But as the Franks established only a decuple proportion of gold and silver , ten shillings will be a sufficient valuation of their solidus of gold . 
It was the common standard of the Barbaric fines , and contained forty denarii , or silver three pences . 
See La Blanc , Traite Historique des Monnoyes de France , p . 
Gregory of Tours exhibits a very different picture . 
Perhaps it would not be easy , within the same historical space , to find more vice and less virtue . 
We are continually shocked by the union of savage and corrupt manners . 
the extent and limits of the French monarchy . 
The Franks , or French , are the only people of Europe who can deduce a perpetual succession from the conquerors of the Western empire . 
But their conquest of Gaul was followed by ten centuries of anarchy and ignorance . 
At length the eye of criticism and philosophy was directed to the antiquities of France but even philosophers have been tainted by the contagion of prejudice and passion . 
Yet the sharp conflict has usefully exercised the adverse powers of learning and genius and each antagonist , alternately vanquished and victorious has extirpated some ancient errors , and established some interesting truths . 
has truly and agreeably represented the slow progress of these studies and he observes , that Gregory of Tours was only once printed before the year . 
Germany received with indifference and contempt the codes of Barbaric laws , which were published by Heroldus , Lindenbrogius , c . 
The rudest , or the most servile , condition of human society , is regulated , however , by some fixed and general rules . 
The same care was extended to their vassals and the rude institutions of the Alemanni and Bavarians were diligently compiled and ratified by the supreme authority of the Merovingian kings . 
The Visigoths and Burgundians , whose conquests in Gaul preceded those of the Franks , showed less impatience to attain one of the principal benefits of civilized society . 
Thus , by a singular coincidence , the Germans framed their artless institutions , at a time when the elaborate system of Roman jurisprudence was finally consummated . 
I have derived much instruction from two learned works of Heineccius , the History , and the Elements , of the Germanic law . 
In a judicious preface to the Elements , he considers , and tries to excuse the defects of that barbarous jurisprudence . 
Latin appears to have been the original language of the Salic law . 
of the real or fabulous Pharamond . 
The preface mentions the four cantons which produced the four legislators and many provinces , Franconia , Saxony , Hanover , Brabant , c . 
, have claimed them as their own . 
See an excellent Dissertation of Heinecties de Lege Salica , tom . 
Note The relative antiquity of the two copies of the Salic law has been contested with great learning and ingenuity . 
M. Wiarda has been opposed by M. Fuer bach , who maintains the higher age of the ancient Code , which has been greatly corrupted by the transcribers . 
See Guizot , Cours de l'Histoire Moderne , vol . 
and the preface to the useful republication of five of the different texts of the Salic law , with that of the Ripuarian in parallel columns . 
By E. A. I. Laspeyres , Halle , . 
M. Eginhard , in Vit . 
By these two laws , most critics understand the Salic and the Ripuarian . 
Consult the ancient and modern prefaces of the several codes , in the fourth volume of the Historians of France . 
the genuine spirit of the Franks more forcibly than the ten books of Gregory of Tours . 
and the same toleration is understood , or expressed , in all the codes , except that of the Visigoths of Spain . 
quanta non solum in regionibus , aut civitatibus , sed etiam in multis domibus habetur . 
He foolishly proposes to introduce a uniformity of law , as well as of faith . 
M. The most complete collection of these codes is in the Barbarorum leges antiquae , by P. Canciani , vols . 
M. Inter Romanos negotia causarum Romanis legibus praecipimus terminari . 
Such are the words of a general constitution promulgated by Clotaire , the son of Clovis , the sole monarch of the Franks about the year . 
though the example is too recent and partial . 
might live according to the law of the Franks . 
is expressed in the reformed copy of Charlemagne which is confirmed by the Royal and Wolfenbuttle MSS . 
is authorized only by the MS . 
of Fulda , from from whence Heroldus published his edition . 
See the four original texts of the Salic law in tom . 
Note Gibbon appears to have doubted the evidence on which this liberty of choice rested . 
His doubts have been confirmed by the researches of M. Savigny , who has not only confuted but traced with convincing sagacity the origin and progress of this error . 
As a general principle , though liable to some exceptions , each lived according to his native law . 
M. Note This constitution of Lothaire at first related only to the duchy of Rome it afterwards found its way into the Lombard code . 
M. Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
In every just government the same penalty is inflicted , or at least is imposed , for the murder of a peasant or a prince . 
But the national inequality established by the Franks , in their criminal proceedings , was the last insult and abuse of conquest . 
In the calm moments of legislation , they solemnly pronounced , that the life of a Roman was of smaller value than that of a Barbarian . 
Had these laws been regulated by any principle of equity or reason , the public protection should have supplied , in just proportion , the want of personal strength . 
As the manners of the Franks became less ferocious , their laws were rendered more severe and the Merovingian kings attempted to imitate the impartial rigor of the Visigoths and Burgundians . 
Under the empire of Charlemagne , murder was universally punished with death and the use of capital punishments has been liberally multiplied in the jurisprudence of modern Europe . 
Heineccius , in his preface to the Elements of Germanic Law , favorably suggests , that at Rome and Athens homicide was only punished with exile . 
It is true but exile was a capital punishment for a citizen of Rome or Athens . 
laws but the latter does not distinguish any difference of Romans . 
Yet the orders of the clergy are placed above the Franks themselves , and the Burgundians and Alemanni between the Franks and the Romans . 
The Antrustiones , qui in truste Dominica sunt , leudi , fideles , undoubtedly represent the first order of Franks but it is a question whether their rank was personal or hereditary . 
by dating the origin of the French nobility from the reign Clotaire II . 
Their premature severity was sometimes rash , and excessive . 
Childebert condemned not only murderers but robbers quomodo sine lege involavit , sine lege moriatur and even the negligent judge was involved in the same sentence . 
See , in the sixth volume of the works of Heineccius , the Elementa Juris Germanici , l . 
Yet some vestiges of these pecuniary compositions for murder have been traced in Germany as late as the sixteenth century . 
The civil and military professions , which had been separated by Constantine , were again united by the Barbarians . 
The party accused might justify his innocence , by producing before their tribunal a number of friendly witnesses , who solemnly declared their belief , or assurance , that he was not guilty . 
The sin and scandal of manifest and frequent perjuries engaged the magistrates to remove these dangerous temptations and to supply the defects of human testimony by the famous experiments of fire and water . 
These extraordinary trials were so capriciously contrived , that , in some cases , guilt , and innocence in others , could not be proved without the interposition of a miracle . 
I cannot find any proof that , under the Merovingian race , the scabini , or assessors , were chosen by the people . 
Note The question of the scabini is treated at considerable length by Savigny . 
He questions the existence of the scabini anterior to Charlemagne . 
Before this time the decision was by an open court of the freemen , the boni Romische Recht , vol . 
that the Salic law did not admit these negative proofs so universally established in the Barbaric codes . 
who became the wife of the grandson of Clovis , must have followed the Salic law . 
Muratori , in the Antiquities of Italy , has given two Dissertations on the judgments of God . 
It was expected that fire would not burn the innocent and that the pure element of water would not allow the guilty to sink into its bosom . 
This sanguinary law was introduced into Gaul by the Burgundians and their legislator Gundobald condescended to answer the complaints and objections of his subject Avitus . 
This oppressive jurisprudence was imposed on the provincials of Gaul , who complained of any injuries in their persons and property . 
has condescended to explain and excuse la maniere de penser de nos peres , on the subject of judicial combats . 
He follows this strange institution from the age of Gundobald to that of St . 
Lewis and the philosopher is some times lost in the legal antiquarian . 
who describes the duel , admires the ars nova of fighting on horseback , which was unknown to the Franks . 
establishes and justifies the use of judicial combat , ) Les Burgund . 
He relates the conversation of Gundobald and Avitus . 
ut non solum valentes viribus , sed etiam infirmi et senes lacessantur ad pugnam , etiam pro vilissimis rebus . 
Quibus foralibus certaminibus contingunt homicidia injusta et crudeles ac perversi eventus judiciorum . 
Like a prudent rhetorician , he suppresses the legal privilege of hiring champions . 
that it was not allowed by the Salic law . 
as the mos antiquus Francorum , more Francis solito , c . 
, expressions too general to exclude the noblest of their tribes . 
A devouring host of one hundred and twenty thousand Germans had formerly passed the Rhine under the command of Ariovistus . 
At the distance of five hundred years , the Visigoths and Burgundians , who revenged the defeat of Ariovistus , usurped the same unequal proportion of two thirds of the subject lands . 
In these districts , each Barbarian was connected by the ties of hospitality with some Roman provincial . 
The memorable vase of Soissons is a monument and a pledge of the regular distribution of the Gallic spoils . 
observes , they were not a conquering people , who had emigrated with their families , like the Goths or Burgundians . 
The women , the children , the old , had not followed Clovis they remained in their ancient possessions on the Waal and the Rhine . 
The adventurers alone had formed the invading force , and they always considered themselves as an army , not as a colony . 
Hence their laws retained no traces of the partition of the Roman properties . 
It is curious to observe the recoil from the national vanity of the French historians of the last century . 
with that of the Turks towards the Raias or Phanariotes , the mass of the Greeks . 
agree in this strange supposition of arbitrary and private rapine . 
shows a strong understanding through a cloud of ignorance and prejudice . 
M. The wealth of the Merovingian princes consisted in their extensive domain . 
These gifts might be resumed at the pleasure of the sovereign and his feeble prerogative derived some support from the influence of his liberality . 
shall maintain one hundred hens and thirty geese and the smaller fifty hens and twelve geese . 
has investigated the names , the number , and the situation of the Merovingian villas . 
is ably contested by Mr. Hallam for this resumption some delinquency must be imputed to the vassal . 
The reader will be interested by the singular analogies with the beneficial and feudal system of Europe in a remote part of the world , indicated by Col . 
Tod in his splendid work on Raja'sthan , vol . 
it is evident , that a deserving son might expect to hold the lands which his father had received from the royal bounty of Gundobald . 
The Burgundians would firmly maintain their privilege , and their example might encourage the Beneficiaries of France . 
The revolutions of the benefices and fiefs are clearly fixed by the Abbe de Mably . 
His accurate distinction of times gives him a merit to which even Montesquieu is a stranger . 
The origin and nature of these Salic lands , which , in times of ignorance , were perfectly understood , now perplex our most learned and sagacious critics . 
Hallam's Middle Ages , vol . 
The vague dominion which Man has assumed over the wild inhabitants of the earth , the air , and the waters , was confined to some fortunate individuals of the human species . 
Gaul was again overspread with woods and the animals , who were reserved for the use or pleasure of the lord , might ravage with impunity the fields of his industrious vassals . 
The chase was the sacred privilege of the nobles and their domestic servants . 
Many of the two hundred and six miracles of St . 
were repeatedly performed to punish sacrilege . 
protestatem habentes , after relating , how some horses ran mad , that had been turned into a sacred meadow . 
censures the legal tyranny of the nobles . 
Pro feris , quas cura hominum non aluit , sed Deus in commune mortalibus ad utendum concessit , pauperes a potentioribus spoliantur , flagellantur , ergastulis detruduntur , et multa alia patiuntur . 
Hoc enim qui faciunt , lege mundi se facere juste posse contendant . 
De Institutione Laicorum , l . 
, apud Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
asserts the rights of nature , and exposes the cruel practice of the twelfth century . 
The youths of an elegant form and an ingenuous aspect were set apart for the domestic service a doubtful situation , which alternately exposed them to the favorable or cruel impulse of passion . 
employed their skill for the use , or profit , of their master . 
The majesty of the Roman laws protected the liberty of each citizen , against the rash effects of his own distress or despair . 
Their submission was accepted by these temporal or spiritual patrons and the hasty transaction irrecoverably fixed their own condition , and that of their latest posterity . 
From the reign of Clovis , during five successive centuries , the laws and manners of Gaul uniformly tended to promote the increase , and to confirm the duration , of personal servitude . 
Time and violence almost obliterated the intermediate ranks of society and left an obscure and narrow interval between the noble and the slave . 
This arbitrary and recent division has been transformed by pride and prejudice into a national distinction , universally established by the arms and the laws of the Merovingians . 
as well as his commentator Barbeyrac , have labored to reconcile it with the laws of nature and reason . 
The state , professions , c . 
Note Compare Hallam , vol . 
relates a memorable example , in which Chilperic only abused the private rights of a master . 
Many families which belonged to his domus fiscales in the neighborhood of Paris , were forcibly sent away into Spain . 
Licentiam habeatis mihi qualemcunque volueritis disciplinam ponere vel venumdare , aut quod vobis placuerit de me facere Marculf . 
speak of many person who sold themselves for bread , in a great famine . 
Auvergne had formerly maintained a just preeminence among the independent states and cities of Gaul . 
The brave and numerous inhabitants displayed a singular trophy the sword of Caesar himself , which he had lost when he was repulsed before the walls of Gergovia . 
The king of Paris , Childebert , was tempted by the neighborhood and beauty of Auvergne . 
On the false report , that their lawful sovereign had been slain in Germany , the city and diocese of Auvergne were betrayed by the grandson of Sidonius Apollinaris . 
Childebert enjoyed this clandestine victory and the free subjects of Theodoric threatened to desert his standard , if he indulged his private resentment , while the nation was engaged in the Burgundian war . 
But the Franks of Austrasia soon yielded to the persuasive eloquence of their king . 
I repeat my promise I give you the people and their wealth as your prey and you may transport them at pleasure into your own country . 
By the execution of this promise , Theodoric justly forfeited the allegiance of a people whom he devoted to destruction . 
Another detachment penetrated as far as Brivas , or Brioude , where the inhabitants , with their valuable effects , had taken refuge in the sanctuary of St . 
The doors of the church resisted the assault but a daring soldier entered through a window of the choir , and opened a passage to his companions . 
The clergy and people , the sacred and the profane spoils , were rudely torn from the altar and the sacrilegious division was made at a small distance from the town of Brioude . 
But this act of impiety was severely chastised by the devout son of Clovis . 
He punished with death the most atrocious offenders left their secret accomplices to the vengeance of St . 
Julian released the captives restored the plunder and extended the rights of sanctuary five miles round the sepulchre of the holy martyr . 
yet he relates his unsuccessful siege of Gergovia with less frankness than we might expect from a great man to whom victory was familiar . 
I am not informed of the degrees and circumstances of this fabulous pedigree . 
The face of the country was concealed by a thick fog , when the king of Paris made his entry into Clermen . 
for the ravages which his troops committed in the neighborhood of Paris . 
have fixed this fortress at a place named Castel Merliac , two miles from Mauriac , in the Upper Auvergne . 
In this description , I translate infra as if I read intra the two are perpetually confounded by Gregory , or his transcribed and the sense must always decide . 
He frequently betrays his extraordinary attention to his native country . 
Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
Before the Austrasian army retreated from Auvergne , Theodoric exacted some pledges of the future loyalty of a people , whose just hatred could be restrained only by their fear . 
A select band of noble youths , the sons of the principal senators , was delivered to the conqueror , as the hostages of the faith of Childebert , and of their countrymen . 
His deliverance was effected by the hardy stratagem of Leo , an item belonging to the kitchens of the bishop of Langres . 
An unknown agent easily introduced him into the same family . 
Exert thy art , and force them to confess , that they have never seen , or tasted , such an entertainment , even in the king's house . 
Leo assured him , that if he would provide a sufficient quantity of poultry , his wishes should be satisfied . 
After the patient expectation of a whole year , he cautiously whispered his design to Attalus , and exhorted him to prepare for flight in the ensuing night . 
in the year , with a friend of Silonius of the same name , who was count of Autun , fifty or sixty years before . 
Such an error , which cannot be imputed to ignorance , is excused , in some degree , by its own magnitude . 
lived ninety two years of which he passed forty as count of Autun , and thirty two as bishop of Langres . 
According to the poet Fortunatus , he displayed equal merit in these different stations . 
Nobilis antiqua decurrens prole parentum , Nobilior gestis , nunc super astra manet . 
Arbiter ante ferox , dein pius ipse sacerdos , Quos domuit judex , fovit amore patris . 
As M. de Valois , and the P. Ruinart , are determined to change the Mosella of the text into Mosa , it becomes me to acquiesce in the alteration . 
Yet , after some examination of the topography . 
I could defend the common reading . 
both in Auvergne and Burgundy . 
He was born in the year , was consecrated bishop of Tours in , and died in or , soon after he had terminated his history . 
and a new Life in the Memoires de l'Academie , c . 
Decedente atque immo potius pereunte ab urbibus Gallicanis liberalium cultura literarum , c . 
is the complaint of Gregory himself , which he fully verifies by his own work . 
His style is equally devoid of elegance and simplicity . 
he has omitted almost every thing that posterity desires to learn . 
Their personal injuries were partial and irregular but the great body of the Romans survived the revolution , and still preserved the property , and privileges , of citizens . 
I shall not attempt to enumerate the generals and magistrates , whose names attest the liberal policy of the Merovingians . 
The fierce and illiterate Barbarians were excluded , during several generations , from the dignities , and even from the orders , of the church . 
Yet such intercourse of sacred and social communion eradicated the distinctions of birth and victory and the nations of Gaul were gradually confounded under the name and government of the Franks . 
Critique de la Monarchie Francoise , tom . 
The French antiquarians establish as a principle , that the Romans and Barbarians may be distinguished by their names . 
The computation by talents is singular enough but if Gregory attached any meaning to that obsolete word , the treasures of Mummolus must have exceeded , l . 
See Fleury , Discours iii . 
The bishop of Tours himself has recorded the complaint of Chilperic , the grandson of Clovis . 
has ascertained the Lingua Romana Rustica , which , through the medium of the Romance , has gradually been polished into the actual form of the French language . 
Under the Carlovingian race , the kings and nobles of France still understood the dialect of their German ancestors . 
The Franks , after they mingled with their Gallic subjects , might have imparted the most valuable of human gifts , a spirit and system of constitutional liberty . 
The monarchy was left without any regular establishment of justice , of arms , or of revenue . 
Seventy five years after the death of Clovis , his grandson , Gontran , king of Burgundy , sent an army to invade the Gothic possessions of Septimania , or Languedoc . 
The troops of Burgundy , Berry , Auvergne , and the adjacent territories , were excited by the hopes of spoil . 
They marched , without discipline , under the banners of German , or Gallic , counts their attack was feeble and unsuccessful but the friendly and hostile provinces were desolated with indiscriminate rage . 
No one , they said , any longer fears or respects his king , his duke , or his count . 
Each man loves to do evil , and freely indulges his criminal inclinations . 
The most gentle correction provokes an immediate tumult , and the rash magistrate , who presumes to censure or restrain his seditious subjects , seldom escapes alive from their revenge . 
Ce beau systeme a ete trouve dans les bois . 
Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
See the Abbe de Mably . 
It should seem that the institution of national assemblies , which are with the French nation , has never been congenial to its temper . 
relates , with much indifference , the crimes , the reproof , and the apology . 
Spain , in these dark ages , has been peculiarly unfortunate . 
The Franks had a Gregory of Tours the Saxons , or Angles , a Bede the Lombards , a Paul Warnefrid , c . 
But the prelates of France , long before the extinction of the Merovingian race , had degenerated into fighting and hunting Barbarians . 
They disdained the use of synods forgot the laws of temperance and chastity and preferred the indulgence of private ambition and luxury to the general interest of the sacerdotal profession . 
From the reign of Recared , the first Catholic king , to that of Witiza , the immediate predecessor of the unfortunate Roderic , sixteen national councils were successively convened . 
But the monarch himself , when he ascended the throne , was bound by a reciprocal oath to God and his people , that he would faithfully execute this important trust . 
Such are the complaints of St . 
The fourscore years , which he deplores , of license and corruption , would seem to insinuate that the Barbarians were admitted into the clergy about the year . 
The acts of the councils of Toledo are still the most authentic records of the church and constitution of Spain . 
very useful and accurate guides . 
As long as the Visigoths themselves were satisfied with the rude customs of their ancestors , they indulged their subjects of Aquitain and Spain in the enjoyment of the Roman law . 
The merit of this impartial policy was enhanced by the situation of Spain under the reign of the Visigoths . 
The provincials were long separated from their Arian masters by the irreconcilable difference of religion . 
While the kingdom of the Franks and Visigoths were established in Gaul and Spain , the Saxons achieved the conquest of Britain , the third great diocese of the Praefecture of the West . 
See Gildas de Excidio Britanniae , c . 
The Anglo Saxon laws were published by Wilkins , London , , in folio and the Leges Wallicae , by Wotton and Clarke , London , , in folio . 
The laborious Mr. Carte , and the ingenious Mr. Whitaker , are the two modern writers to whom I am principally indebted . 
The particular historian of Manchester embraces , under that obscure title , a subject almost as extensive as the general history of England . 
Note Add the Anglo Saxon History of Mr. S. Turner and Sir F. Palgrave Sketch of the Early History of England . 
M. About forty years after the dissolution of the Roman government , Vortigern appears to have obtained the supreme , though precarious command of the princes and cities of Britain . 
That unfortunate monarch has been almost unanimously condemned for the weak and mischievous policy of inviting a formidable stranger , to repel the vexatious inroads of a domestic foe . 
If Britain had indeed been unknown to the Saxons , the measure of its calamities would have been less complete . 
This favorable reception encouraged five thousand warriors to embark with their families in seventeen vessels , and the infant power of Hengist was fortified by this strong and seasonable reenforcement . 
It was easy to foresee , but it was impossible to prevent , the impending evils . 
The two nations were soon divided and exasperated by mutual jealousies . 
The causes of fear and hatred were inflamed into an irreconcilable quarrel . 
The Saxons flew to arms and if they perpetrated a treacherous massacre during the security of a feast , they destroyed the reciprocal confidence which sustains the intercourse of peace and war . 
Nennius imputes to the Saxons the murder of three hundred British chiefs a crime not unsuitable to their savage manners . 
is inclined to resolve the whole of these stories , as Niebuhr the older Roman history , into poetry . 
The Angles were distinguished by their numbers and their success and they claimed the honor of fixing a perpetual name on the country , of which they occupied the most ample portion . 
But this arduous achievement was not prepared or executed by the union of national powers . 
In the invasion of Britain many heroes vanquished and fell but only seven victorious leaders assumed , or at least maintained , the title of kings . 
It has been pretended , that this republic of kings was moderated by a general council and a supreme magistrate . 
I do not perceive the absurdity of supposing that the Frisians , c . 
, were mingled with the Anglo Saxons . 
must be rejected because an idea is conveyed thereby which is substantially wrong . 
At no one period were there ever seven kingdoms independent of each other . 
Mr. Sharon Turner has the merit of having first confuted the popular notion on this subject . 
Anglo Saxon History , vol . 
M. Bede has enumerated seven kings , two Saxons , a Jute , and four Angles , who successively acquired in the heptarchy an indefinite supremacy of power and renown . 
Under the long dominion of the emperors , Britain had been insensibly moulded into the elegant and servile form of a Roman province , whose safety was intrusted to a foreign power . 
The introduction of the Saxons betrayed their internal weakness , and degraded the character both of the prince and people . 
See Gildas de Excidio Britanniae , c . 
The monarchy of the West Saxons was laboriously founded by the persevering efforts of three martial generations . 
Kenric , his valiant son , advanced into Wiltshire besieged Salisbury , at that time seated on a commanding eminence and vanquished an army which advanced to the relief of the city . 
In the subsequent battle of Marlborough , his British enemies displayed their military science . 
The Saxons charged in one weighty column , boldly encountered with their shord swords the long lances of the Britons , and maintained an equal conflict till the approach of night . 
At Beran birig , or Barbury castle , near Marlborough . 
The Saxon chronicle assigns the name and date . 
relates the circumstances of this battle . 
They are probable and characteristic and the historians of the twelfth century might consult some materials that no longer exist . 
Resistance became more languid , as the number and boldness of the assailants continually increased . 
Beyond the Severn the Britons still asserted their national freedom , which survived the heptarchy , and even the monarchy , of the Saxons . 
who planted an English colony at Exeter , and confined the Britons beyond the River Tamar . 
See William of Malmsbury , l . 
, in the Scriptores post Bedam , p . 
The spirit of the Cornish knights was degraded by servitude and it should seem , from the Romance of Sir Tristram , that their cowardice was almost proverbial . 
and the least suspicious of their chronicles and lives of saints . 
may countenance an emigration as early as the middle of the fifth century . 
should so faithfully transcribe the gross ignorance of Carte , whose venial errors he has so rigorously chastised . 
I may assume the merit of examining the original evidence which they have produced . 
Note Compare Gallet , Memoires sur la Bretagne , and Daru , Histoire de Bretagne . 
who gave their name and peculiar civilization to Bretagne . 
M. Lappenberg expresses his surprise that Gibbon here rejects the authority which he follows elsewhere . 
M. Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
Part V. In a century of perpetual , or at least implacable , war , much courage , and some skill , must have been exerted for the defence of Britain . 
Ambrosius Aurelian was descended from a noble family of Romans his modesty was equal to his valor , and his valor , till the last fatal action , was crowned with splendid success . 
But every British name is effaced by the illustrious name of Arthur , the hereditary prince of the Silures , in South Wales , and the elective king or general of the nation . 
The events of his life are less interesting than the singular revolutions of his fame . 
His trophies were decorated with captive provinces and Imperial titles and his Danish victories avenged the recent injuries of his country . 
Pilgrimage , and the holy wars , introduced into Europe the specious miracles of Arabian magic . 
is still more singular , Unus de consulibus gentis Romanicae est pater meus . 
had framed an interesting , and even probable , narrative of the wars of Arthur though it is impossible to allow the reality of the round table . 
Note I presume that Gibbon means Llywarch Hen , or the Aged . 
But the Welsh antiquarians have never obtained a hearing from the public they have had no Macpherson to compensate for his corruption of their poetic legends by forcing them into popularity . 
See also Mr. Sharon Turner's Essay on the Welsh Bards . 
I have derived much instruction from the two learned dissertations prefixed to the first volume of his History of English Poetry . 
The arts and religion , the laws and language , which the Romans had so carefully planted in Britain , were extirpated by their barbarous successors . 
The kings of France maintained the privileges of their Roman subjects but the ferocious Saxons trampled on the laws of Rome , and of the emperors . 
The language of science , of business , and of conversation , which had been introduced by the Romans , was lost in the general desolation . 
Almost every name , conspicuous either in the church or state , reveals its Teutonic origin and the geography of England was universally inscribed with foreign characters and appellations . 
an expression more dreadful in its simplicity , than all the vague and tedious lamentations of the British Jeremiah . 
which overspread so large a portion of Hampshire and Sussex . 
Johnson affirms , that few English words are of British extraction . 
It is possible , indeed , that many of these words may have been imported from the Latin or Saxon into the native idiom of Britain . 
See Prichard on the Eastern Origin of the Celtic Nations Oxford , . 
After the first generation of Italian , or Scottish , missionaries , the dignities of the church were filled with Saxon proselytes . 
After the sanguinary Barbarians had secured their dominion , and gratified their revenge , it was their interest to preserve the peasants as well as the cattle , of the unresisting country . 
In each successive revolution , the patient herd becomes the property of its new masters and the salutary compact of food and labor is silently ratified by their mutual necessities . 
He released them at once from spiritual and temporal bondage and two hundred and fifty slaves of both sexes were baptized by their indulgent master . 
Such gentle treatment might secure the allegiance of a fierce people , who had been recently subdued on the confines of Wales and Cornwall . 
Carte's History of England , vol . 
He quotes the British historians but I much fear , that Jeffrey of Monmouth is his only witness . 
Henry's useful and laborious History of Great Britain , vol . 
I understand that fair copies of John of Tinemouth's ample collections are preserved in the libraries of Oxford , Lambeth , c . 
See the mission of Wilfrid , c . 
, in Bede , Hist . 
it appears , that the Anglo Saxons , from the first to the last age , persisted in this unnatural practice . 
Their youths were publicly sold in the market of Rome . 
According to the laws of Ina , they could not be lawfully sold beyond the seas . 
We may observe , that these legislators , the West Saxons and Mercians , continued their British conquests after they became Christians . 
The laws of the four kings of Kent do not condescend to notice the existence of any subject Britons . 
The independent Britons appear to have relapsed into the state of original barbarism , from whence they had been imperfectly reclaimed . 
Separated by their enemies from the rest of mankind , they soon became an object of scandal and abhorrence to the Catholic world . 
The use of the Latin language was insensibly abolished , and the Britons were deprived of the art and learning which Italy communicated to her Saxon proselytes . 
Their rank and merit were ascertained by solemn trials , and the strong belief of supernatural inspiration exalted the fancy of the poet , and of his audience . 
One of the greatest of the English monarchs was requested to satisfy the curiosity of a Greek emperor concerning the state of Britain and Henry II . 
could assert , from his personal experience , that Wales was inhabited by a race of naked warriors , who encountered , without fear , the defensive armor of their enemies . 
has furnished me with a curious and interesting account of the Welsh bards . 
In the year , a session was held at Caerwys by the special command of Queen Elizabeth , and regular degrees in vocal and instrumental music were conferred on fifty five minstrels . 
The prize was adjudged by the Mostyn family . 
Regio longe lateque diffusa , milite , magis quam credibile sit , referta . 
Partibus equidem in illis miles unus quinquaginta generat , sortitus more barbaro denas aut amplius uxores . 
is disclaimed by the Benedictine editors . 
Giraldus Cambrensis confines this gift of bold and ready eloquence to the Romans , the French , and the Britons . 
The malicious Welshman insinuates that the English taciturnity might possibly be the effect of their servitude under the Normans . 
By the revolution of Britain , the limits of science , as well as of empire , were contracted . 
The east is a fair country , inhabited by a civilized people the air is healthy , the waters are pure and plentiful , and the earth yields her regular and fruitful increase . 
Some families of fishermen , the subjects of the Franks , are excused from tribute , in consideration of the mysterious office which is performed by these Charons of the ocean . 
From these ambassadors Procopius might be informed of a singular , though not improbable , adventure , which announces the spirit , rather than the delicacy , of an English heroine . 
The forsaken princess of the Angles , instead of bewailing , revenged her disgrace . 
This gallant exploit appears to be the last naval enterprise of the Anglo Saxons . 
Seven independent kingdoms were agitated by perpetual discord and the British world was seldom connected , either in peace or war , with the nations of the Continent . 
Radiger was deprived of a most valuable wife . 
The English writers are ignorant of her name and existence but Procopius may have suggested to Mr. Rowe the character and situation of Rodogune in the tragedy of the Royal Convert . 
The bishop of Tours ended his history and his life almost immediately before the conversion of Kent . 
The majesty of Rome was faintly represented by the princes of Constantinople , the feeble and imaginary successors of Augustus . 
Chapter XXXVIII Reign Of Clovis . 
General Observations On The Fall Of The Roman Empire In The West . 
The Greeks , after their country had been reduced into a province , imputed the triumphs of Rome , not to the merit , but to the fortune , of the republic . 
to resign her wings , to descend from her globe , and to fix her firm and immutable throne on the banks of the Tyber . 
The fidelity of the citizens to each other , and to the state , was confirmed by the habits of education , and the prejudices of religion . 
From these institutions of peace and war Polybius has deduced the spirit and success of a people , incapable of fear , and impatient of repose . 
I shall boldly impute the malicious declamation . 
Such were the generous professions of P. Scipio and Q. Maximus . 
The Latin historian had read and most probably transcribes , Polybius , their contemporary and friend . 
And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things . 
was accomplished , according to St . 
Jerom , in his own time . 
The rise of a city , which swelled into an empire , may deserve , as a singular prodigy , the reflection of a philosophic mind . 
But the decline of Rome was the natural and inevitable effect of immoderate greatness . 
The story of its ruin is simple and obvious and instead of inquiring why the Roman empire was destroyed , we should rather be surprised that it had subsisted so long . 
Extreme distress , which unites the virtue of a free people , imbitters the factions of a declining monarchy . 
Yet the salutary event approved in some measure the judgment of Constantine . 
The foundation of Constantinople more essentially contributed to the preservation of the East , than to the ruin of the West . 
Yet party spirit , however pernicious or absurd , is a principle of union as well as of dissension . 
If the decline of the Roman empire was hastened by the conversion of Constantine , his victorious religion broke the violence of the fall , and mollified the ferocious temper of the conquerors . 
M. This awful revolution may be usefully applied to the instruction of the present age . 
Perhaps the same reflections will illustrate the fall of that mighty empire , and explain the probable causes of our actual security . 
I. The Romans were ignorant of the extent of their danger , and the number of their enemies . 
The Barbarian world was agitated by the rapid impulse of war and the peace of Gaul or Italy was shaken by the distant revolutions of China . 
The Huns , who fled before a victorious enemy , directed their march towards the West and the torrent was swelled by the gradual accession of captives and allies . 
From the Gulf of Finland to the Eastern Ocean , Russia now assumes the form of a powerful and civilized empire . 
The French and English editors of the Genealogical History of the Tartars have subjoined a curious , though imperfect , description , of their present state . 
But these conquests are precarious , nor will I venture to insure the safety of the Chinese empire . 
The empire of Rome was firmly established by the singular and perfect coalition of its members . 
The happiness of a hundred millions depended on the personal merit of one or two men , perhaps children , whose minds were corrupted by education , luxury , and despotic power . 
In peace , the progress of knowledge and industry is accelerated by the emulation of so many active rivals in war , the European forces are exercised by temperate and undecisive contests . 
America now contains about six millions of European blood and descent and their numbers , at least in the North , are continually increasing . 
Cold , poverty , and a life of danger and fatigue , fortify the strength and courage of Barbarians . 
The military art has been changed by the invention of gunpowder which enables man to command the two most powerful agents of nature , air and fire . 
Mathematics , chemistry , mechanics , architecture , have been applied to the service of war and the adverse parties oppose to each other the most elaborate modes of attack and of defence . 
Il est certain que les frais de tous ces preparatifs de destruction suffiroient pour fonder et pour faire fleurir la plus aombreuse colonie . 
Voltaire , Siecle de Louis XIV . 
Should these speculations be found doubtful or fallacious , there still remains a more humble source of comfort and hope . 
The improvements of society may be viewed under a threefold aspect . 
But this general order is the effect of skill and labor and the complex machinery may be decayed by time , or injured by violence . 
Private genius and public industry may be extirpated but these hardy plants survive the tempest , and strike an everlasting root into the most unfavorable soil . 
The splendid days of Augustus and Trajan were eclipsed by a cloud of ignorance and the Barbarians subverted the laws and palaces of Rome . 
It would be an easy , though tedious , task , to produce the authorities of poets , philosophers , and historians . 
Fancy , or perhaps reason , may still suppose an extreme and absolute state of nature far below the level of these savages , who had acquired some arts and instruments . 
See the learned and rational work of the president Goguet , de l'Origine des Loix , des Arts , et des Sciences . 
the first and most difficult steps of human invention . 
It is certain , however strange , that many nations have been ignorant of the use of fire . 
in a ship , may indicate , that the savage coast of Latium was first discovered and civilized by the Phoenicians . 
In the ninth and tenth books of the Odyssey , Homer has embellished the tales of fearful and credulous sailors , who transformed the cannibals of Italy and Sicily into monstrous giants . 
The merit of discovery has too often been stained with avarice , cruelty , and fanaticism and the intercourse of nations has produced the communication of disease and prejudice . 
A singular exception is due to the virtue of our own times and country . 
The five great voyages , successively undertaken by the command of his present Majesty , were inspired by the pure and generous love of science and of mankind . 
