EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS THE OUTLAW OF TORN To My Friend JOSEPH E. BRAY CHAPTER I HERE is a story that has lain dormant for seven hun dred years . 
At first it was suppressed by one of the Plantagenet kings of England . 
I happened to dig it up by accident . 
The accident being the relationship of my wife's cousin to a certain Father Superior in a very ancient monastery in Europe . 
He let me pry about among a quantity of mildewed and musty manuscripts and I came across this . 
In the retelling of it I have left out most of the history . 
What interested me was the unique character about whom the tale revolves the visored horseman who but let us wait until we get to him . 
It all happened in the thirteenth century , and while it was happening it shook England from north to south and from east to west and reached across the channel and shook France . 
Never mind the quarrel , that's history , and you can read all about it at your leisure . 
My Lord King , he cried , that you be my Lord King alone prevents Simon de Montfort from demand ing satisfaction for such a gross insult . 
That you take advantage of your kingship to say what you would never dare say were you not king , brands me not a traitor , though it does brand you a coward . 
Tense silence fell upon the little company of lords and courtiers as these awful words fell from the lips of a subject , addressed to his king . 
They were horrified , for De Montfort's bold challenge was to them but little short of sacrilege . 
Come , my gentlemen , he said , methought that we were to have a turn with the foils this morning . 
As the arras fell behind the depart ing King , De Montfort shrugged his broad shoulders , and turning , left the apartment by another door . 
Henry felt in no mood for fencing with De Fulm , who , like the other sycophants that surrounded him , always allowed the King easily to best him in every encounter . 
The armory was a great room on the main floor of the palace , off the guard room . 
It was built in a small wing of the building so that it had light from three sides . 
For an instant the King stood as tense and white as though the hand of death had reached out and touched his heart with its icy fingers . 
Drawing off his gauntlet he advanced close to De Vac . 
Dog ! he hissed , and struck the master of fence a stinging blow across the face , and spat upon him . 
Then he turned on his heel and strode from the armory . 
De Vac had grown old in the service of the kings of England , but he hated all things English and all Eng lishmen . 
And now the English King had put upon him such an insult as might only be wiped out by blood . 
As the blow fell the wiry Frenchman clicked his heels together , and throwing down his foil , he stood erect and rigid as a marble statue before his master . 
White and livid was his tense drawn face , but he spoke no word . 
If possible , he would harm the whole of England if he could , but he would bide his time . 
He could afford to wait for his opportunity if by waiting he could encompass a more terrible re venge . 
De Vac had been born in Paris , the son of a French officer reputed the best swordsman in France . 
The son had followed closely in the footsteps of his father until on the latter's death , he could easily claim the title of his sire . 
How he had left France and entered the ser vice of John of England is not of this story . 
In the girdle was a long dagger of beautiful workmanship . 
Dainty sandals encased her feet , while a wimple of violet silk bordered in gold fringe , lay becomingly over her head and shoulders . 
By her side walked a handsome boy of about three , clad , like his companion , in gay colors . 
His tiny surcoat of scarlet velvet was rich with embroidery , while be neath was a close fitting tunic of white silk . 
His doublet was of scarlet , while his long hose of white were cross gartered with scarlet from his tiny sandals to his knees . 
The young woman did as she was bid , and when she had taken her place and turned to face him the boy threw the ball to her . 
For three days the old man had brooded over his grievance , seeking for some means to be revenged upon the King for the insult which Henry had put upon him . 
Many schemes had presented themselves to his shrewd and cunning mind , but so far all had been rejected as unworthy of the terrible satisfaction which his wounded pride demanded . 
With all England he knew the utter contempt in which Henry held the terms of the Magna Charta which he so often violated along with his kingly oath to maintain it . 
If he could but learn the details of this plan , thought De Vac the point of landing of the foreign troops their numbers the first point of attack . 
And he would let the King know to whom , and for what cause , he was beholden for his defeat and dis comfiture . 
Possibly the barons would depose Henry , and place a new king upon England's throne , and then De Vac would mock the Plantagenet to his face . 
Sweet , kind , delectable vengeance , indeed ! and the old man licked his thin lips as though to taste the last sweet vestige of some dainty morsel . 
And , in so far as he could direct , he varied not one jot from the details of that vividly conceived masterpiece of hellishness during the twenty years which followed . 
The little boy who so innocently played in the garden of his royal father was Prince Richard , the three year old son of Henry III of England . 
No published history mentions this little lost prince only the secret archives of the kings of England tell the story of his strange and adventurous life . 
There , in a secluded bower , the two lovers whispered their hopes and plans , unmindful of the royal charge playing neglected among the flowers and shrubbery of the garden . 
Toward the middle of July De Vac had his plans well laid . 
Brus , like the other palace servants , considered De Vac a loyal retainer of the house of Plantagenet . 
That night De Vac took the key to a locksmith on the far side of London one who could not possibly know him or recognize the key as belonging to the palace . 
Here he had a duplicate made , waiting impatiently while the old man fashioned it with the crude instru ments of his time . 
Several times De Vac paced the length of this black alley in search of the little doorway of the building he sought . 
At length he came upon it , and , after repeated pounding with the pommel of his sword , it was opened by a slatternly old hag . 
What would ye of a decent woman at such an un godly hour ? she grumbled . 
Ah , 'tis ye , my lord ? she added , hastily , as the flickering rays of the candle she bore lighted up De Vac's face . 
Welcome , my Lord , thrice welcome . 
The daughter of the devil welcomes her brother . 
Silence , old hag , cried De Vac . 
Cease thy babbling , Lord Satan , cried the woman . 
The bundle is ready , she continued , closing the door after De Vac , who had now entered , and here be the key but first let us have a payment . 
His venture was far too serious , and the results of exposure too fraught with danger , to permit of his tak ing any chances with a disloyal fellow conspirator . 
Slipping the key into the pocket of his tunic and covering the bundle with his long surcoat , De Vac stepped out into the darkness of the alley and hastened toward the dock . 
Beneath the planks he found a skiff which he had moored there earlier in the evening , and underneath one of the thwarts he hid the bundle . 
Ha , Sir Jules , laughed the old gardener , Virtue and Vice be twin sisters who come running to do the bidding of the same father , Desire . 
The best sword arm in all Christendom needs no other logic than the sword , I should think , said Brus , returning to his work . 
That afternoon De Vac stood in a window of the armory looking out upon the beautiful garden which spread before him to the river wall two hundred yards away . 
Through this seeming jungle ran tortuous paths , and the carved stone benches of the open garden gave place to rustic seats , and swings suspended from the branches of fruit trees . 
Toward this enchanting spot slowly were walking the Lady Maud and her little charge , Prince Richard all ignorant of the malicious watcher in the window be hind them . 
Relocking the gate the two strolled arm in arm to the little bower which was their trysting place . 
Richard was devoting his royal energies to chasing an elusive butterfly which fate led nearer and nearer to the cold , hard watcher in the bushes . 
Closer and closer came the little Prince , and in another moment he had burst through the flowering shrubs , and stood facing the implacable master of fence . 
Your Highness , said De Vac , bowing to the little fellow , let old De Vac help you catch the pretty insect . 
Richard , having often seen De Vac , did not fear him , and so together they started in pursuit of the butter fly which by now had passed out of sight . 
De Vac turned their steps toward the little postern gate , but when he would have passed through with the tiny Prince the latter rebelled . 
Come , My Lord Prince , urged De Vac , methinks the butterfly did but alight without the wall , we can have it and return within the garden in an instant . 
Go thyself and fetch it , replied the Prince the King , my father , has forbid me stepping without the palace grounds . 
Come , commanded De Vac , more sternly , no harm can come to you . 
But the child hung back and would not go with him so that De Vac was forced to grasp him roughly by the arm . 
There was a cry of rage and alarm from the royal child . 
Unhand me , sirrah , screamed the boy . 
When they reached the wall De Vac and the Prince were upon the outside , and the Frenchman had closed and was endeavoring to lock the gate . 
De Vac dropped the key and , still grasping the now thoroughly affrightened Prince with his left hand , drew his sword and confronted the officer . 
Then with a bound he leaped between Lady Maud and the gate , so that she could not retreat into the garden and give the alarm . 
Still grasping the trembling child in his iron grip he stood facing the lady in waiting , his back against the door . 
Henry III , King of England , sat in his council cham ber surrounded by the great lords and nobles who com posed his suit . 
The King feared this mighty kinsman who so boldly advised him against the weak follies which were bringing his kingdom to a condition of revolution . 
There was a commotion at one side of the room , the arras parted , and Eleanor , Queen of England , staggered toward the throne , tears streaming down her pale cheeks . 
Oh , My Lord ! My Lord ! she cried , Richard our son , has been assassinated and thrown into the Thames . 
In an instant all was confusion and turmoil , and it was with the greatest difficulty that the King finally obtained a coherent statement from his queen . 
CHAPTER IV AS De Vac drew his sword from the heart of the Lady Maud he winced , for , merciless though he was , he had shrunk from this cruel task . 
The little Prince was now so terrified that he could but tremble and whimper in his fright . 
De Vac did not dare remain in this retreat until dark , as he had first intended . 
He reached his destination unno ticed , and , running in beneath the dock , worked the boat far into the dark recess of the cave like retreat . 
The discarded clothing of the Prince he wrapped about a huge stone torn from the disintegrating masonry of the river wall , and consigned the bundle to the voice less river . 
What do we here , Sir Jules ? he asked . 
Take me back to the King's , my father's palace . 
I like not this dark hole nor the strange garments you have placed upon me . 
Silence , boy ! commanded the old man . 
Sir Jules be dead , nor are you a king's son . 
Remember these two things well , nor ever again let me hear you speak the name Sir Jules , or call yourself a prince . 
The boy went silent , again cowed by the fierce tone of his captor . 
De Vac resumed his place in the skiff , and again drew it far beneath the dock . 
Scarcely had he done so ere a party of armored knights and men at arms clanked out upon the planks above him from the mouth of the dark alley . 
Here they stopped as though for consulta tion and plainly could the listener below hear every word of their conversation . 
I think , My Lord , that presently we shall hear from some bold adventurer who holds the little Prince for ransom . 
Would that I might get my hands upon the foul devil who has done this horrid deed . 
Beneath the planks , not four feet from where Leices ter stood , lay the object of his search . 
The clanking armor , the heavy spurred feet , and the voices above him had awakened the little Prince and with a startled cry he sat upright in the bottom of the skiff . 
Instantly De Vac's iron band clapped over the tiny mouth , but not before a single faint wail had reached the ears of the men above . 
Hark ! What was that , My Lord ? cried one of the men at arms . 
Right you are , said De Montfort , but I could have sworn 'twas a child's feeble wail had I not seen the two filthy rodents with mine own eyes . 
Come , let us to the next vile alley . 
We have met with no success here , though that old hag who called herself Til seemed overanxious to bargain for the future information she seemed hopeful of being able to give us . 
As they moved off , their voices grew fainter in the ears of the listeners beneath the dock and soon were lost in the distance . 
A close shave , thought De Vac , as he again took up the child and prepared to gain the dock . 
The apartment which they now entered extended across the entire east end of the building , and had windows upon three sides . 
These were heavily cur tained . 
The apartment was lighted by a small cresset hanging from a rafter near the center of the room . 
The walls were unplastered and the rafters un ceiled the whole bearing a most barnlike and unhos pitable appearance . 
In one corner was a huge bed , and across the room a smaller cot a cupboard , a table , and two benches com pleted the furnishings . 
These articles De Vac had pur chased for the room against the time when he should occupy it with his little prisoner . 
On the table were a loaf of black bread , an earthen ware jar containing honey , a pitcher of milk and two drinking horns . 
To these De Vac immediately gave his attention , commanding the child to partake of what he wished . 
While the child ate , De Vac hastened to the lower floor of the building in search of Til whom he now thoroughly mistrusted and feared . 
When he found the old hag she was already dressed to go upon the street , in fact he intercepted her at the very door of the building . 
Whither , old hag ? he asked . 
To visit Mag Tunk at the alley's end , by the river , My Lord , she replied , with more respect than she had been wont to accord him . 
CHAPTER V FOR three years following the disappearance of Prince Richard a bent old woman lived in the heart of London within a stone's throw of the King's palace . 
And upon his left breast was a strange mark which resembled a lily . 
For years she worked assiduously with the little boy's education . 
There were three subjects in her curriculum French , swordsmanship and hatred of all things Eng lish , especially the reigning house of England . 
The old woman had had made a tiny foil and had commenced teaching the little boy the art of fence when he was but three years old . 
You will be the greatest swordsman in the world when you are twenty , my son , she was wont to say , and then you shall go out and kill many Englishmen . 
Your name shall be hated and cursed the length and breadth of England , and when you finally stand with the halter about your neck a ha , then will I speak . 
He also knew that he hated Englishmen , but why , he did not know . 
When the little boy was about six years of age a strange man came to their attic home to visit the little old woman . 
The stranger was old and bent and had a great beard which hid almost his entire face except for two piercing eyes , a great nose and a bit of wrinkled forehead . 
When he spoke he accompanied his words with many shrugs of his narrow shoulders and with waving of his arms and other strange and amusing gesticulations . 
Here was the first amusement of his little starved life . 
He listened intently to the conversa tion , which was in French . 
I have just the thing for madame , the stranger was saying . 
It be a noble and stately hall far from the beaten way . 
It was built in the old days by Harold the Saxon , but in later times death and poverty and the disfavor of the King have wrested it from his descend ants . 
A few years since Henry granted it to that spend thrift favorite of his , Henri de Macy , who pledged it to me for a sum he hath been unable to repay . 
Today it be my property , and as it be far from Paris you may have it for the mere song I have named . 
It be a won drous bargain , madame . 
One tower hath fallen , and the roof for half the length of one wing hath sagged and tumbled in , ex plained the old Frenchman . 
But the three lower stories be intact and quite habitable . 
It be much grander even now than the castles of many of England's noble barons , and the price , madame ah , the price be so ridiculously low . 
Still the old woman hesitated . 
Come , said the Frenchman , I have it . 
And thus it was accomplished . 
Several days later the little old woman called the child to her . 
We start tonight upon a long journey to our new home . 
Thy face shall be wrapped in many rags , for thou hast a most grievous toothache . 
Dost understand ? But I have no toothache . 
My teeth do not pain me at all . 
Tut , tut , interrupted the little old woman . 
Thou hast a toothache , and so thy face must be wrapped in many rags . 
And listen , should any ask thee upon the way why thy face be so wrapped thou art to say that thou hast a toothache . 
And thou do not do as I say the King's men will take us and we shall be hanged , for the King hateth us . 
If thou hatest the English King and lovest thy life do as I command . 
I hate the King , replied the little boy . 
For this reason I shall do as thou sayest . 
So it was that they set out that night upon their long journey north toward the hills of Derby . 
For many days they travelled , riding upon two small donkeys . 
Strange sights filled the days for the little boy who remembered nothing outside the bare attic of his Lon don home and the dirty London alleys that he had traversed only by night . 
They wound across beautiful parklike meadows and through dark , forbidding forests , and now and again they passed tiny hamlets of thatched huts . 
Once , as they lay in hiding in a dense wood beside a little open glade across which the road wound , the boy saw two knights enter the glade from either side . 
The other knight made no response other than to rest his lance upon his thigh and with lowered point ride toward his ebon adversary . 
The momentum of the black carried him fifty paces beyond the fallen horseman before his rider could rein him in , then the black knight turned to view the havoc he had wrought . 
The gray horse was just staggering dizzily to his feet , but his mailed rider lay quiet and still where he had fallen . 
With raised visor the black knight rode back to the side of his vanquished foe . 
There was a cruel smile upon his lips as he leaned toward the prostrate form . 
He spoke tauntingly , but there was no response , then he prodded the fallen man with the point of his spear . 
Even this elicited no movement . 
With a shrug of his iron clad shoulders the black knight wheeled and rode on down the road until he had disappeared from sight within the gloomy shadows of the encircling forest . 
The little boy was spell bound . 
Naught like this had he ever seen or dreamed . 
Some day thou shalt go and do likewise , my son , said the little old woman . 
Shall I be clothed in armor and ride upon a great black steed ? he asked . 
But come , we must be on our way . 
Ragged , bearded , uncouth villains they were , armed mostly with bludgeons and daggers , with here and there a cross bow . 
Without mercy they attacked the old and the young , beating them down in cold blood even when they offered no resistance . 
Those of the caravan who could escaped , the balance the highwaymen left dead or dying in the road , as they hurried away with their loot . 
At first the child was horror struck , but when he turned to the little old woman for sympathy he found a grim smile upon her thin lips . 
She noted his expres sion of dismay . 
It is naught , my son . 
But English curs setting upon English swine . 
Some day thou shalt set upon both they be only fit for killing . 
The boy made no reply , but he thought a great deal about that which he had seen . 
He had seen them in all their sorrow and misery and poverty stretching a long , scattering line all the way from London town . 
Their bent backs , their poor thin bodies and their hopeless , sorrowful faces attest ing the weary wretchedness of their existence . 
Be no one happy in all the world ? he once broke out to the old woman . 
Only he who wields the mightiest sword , responded the old woman . 
You have seen , my son , that all Eng lishmen are beasts . 
They set upon and kill one another for little provocation or for no provocation at all . 
When thou shalt be older thou shalt go forth and kill them all for unless thou kill them they will kill thee . 
At length , after tiresome days upon the road , they came to a little hamlet in the hills . 
Before this somber pile the two dismounted . 
The little boy was filled with awe and his childish imagina tion ran riot as they approached the crumbling barbican on foot , leading the horse after them . 
From the dark shadows of the ballium they passed into the moonlit inner court . 
Then she led the way into the dense shadows of the castle , lighting their advance with a flickering pine knot . 
The old planking of the floors , long unused , groaned and rattled beneath their approach . 
There was a sudden scamper of clawed feet before them , and a red fox dashed by in a frenzy of alarm toward the freedom of the outer night . 
Presently they came to the great hall . 
The old wo man pushed open the great doors upon their creaking hinges and lit up dimly the mighty , cavernous interior with the puny rays of their feeble torch . 
As they stepped cautiously within an impalpable dust arose in little spurts from the long rotted rushes that crumbled beneath their feet . 
A huge bat circled wildly with loud fluttering wings in evident remonstrance at this rude intrusion . 
Strange creatures of the night scurried or wriggled across wall and floor . 
But the child was unafraid . 
Fear had not been a part of the old woman's curriculum . 
The boy did not know the meaning of the word , nor was he ever in his after life to experience the sensation . 
With childish eagerness he followed his companion as she inspected the in terior of the chamber . 
It was still an imposing room . 
Here they took up their abode . 
But the bent , old woman was no longer an old woman she had become a straight , wiry , active old man . 
The little boy's education went on French , swords manship and hatred of the English the same thing year after year with the addition of horsemanship after he was ten years old . 
At this time the old man com menced teaching him to speak English , but with a studied and very marked French accent . 
During all his life now he could not remember of having spoken to any living being other than his guardian , whom he had been taught to address as father . 
Nor did the boy have any name he was just my son . 
Often the two practiced with razor sharp swords , and without armor or other protection of any description . 
Thus only , the old man was wont to say , mayst thou become the absolute master of thy blade . 
But in practice there were many accidents , and then one or both of them would nurse a punctured skin for a few days . 
At fifteen he was a very strong and straight and handsome lad . 
It was about this time that there occurred the first important break in the monotony of his existence . 
There before them upon the downs a boy battled with a lunging , rearing horse a perfect demon of a black horse . 
Strik ing and biting in a frenzy of rage it sought ever to escape or injure the lithe figure which clung leech like to its shoulder . 
The boy was on the ground . 
As the animal plunged hither and thither in great leaps he dragged the boy with him , but all his mighty efforts were unavailing to loosen the grip upon mane and withers . 
Suddenly he reared straight into the air carrying the youth with him , then with a vicious lunge he threw himself backward upon the ground . 
It's death ! exclaimed one of the knights , he will kill the youth yet , Beauchamp . 
No ! cried he addressed . 
Look ! He is up again and the boy still clings as tightly to him as his own black hide . 
'Tis true , exclaimed another , but he hath lost what he had gained upon the halter he must needs fight it all out again from the beginning . 
And so the battle went on again as before , the boy again drawing the iron neck slowly to the right the beast fighting and squealing as though possessed of a thousand devils . 
A dozen times as the head bent far ther and farther toward him the boy loosed his hold upon the mane and reached quickly down to grasp the near fore pastern . 
A dozen times the horse shook off the new hold , but at length the boy was successful , and the knee was bent and the hoof drawn up to the elbow . 
Now the black fought at a disadvantage , for he was on but three feet and his neck was drawn about in an awkward and unnatural position . 
His efforts became weaker and weaker . 
The boy talked incessantly to him in a quiet voice , and there was a shadow of a smile upon his lips . 
Now he bore heavily upon the black withers pulling the horse toward him . 
Slowly the beast sank upon his bent knee pulling backward until his off fore leg was stretched straight before him . 
Then with a final surge the youth pulled him over upon his side , and as he fell slipped prone beside him . 
One sinewy hand shot to the rope just beneath the black chin the other grasped a slim , pointed ear . 
Then he sank panting and exhausted into mute surrender . 
Well done ! cried one of the knights . 
Simon de Montfort himself never mastered a horse in better or der , my boy . 
Who be thou ? In an instant the lad was upon his feet his eyes searching for the speaker . 
Come , Sir Mortimer ! cried the boy , and turning he led the prancing but subdued animal toward the castle and through the ruined barbican into the court beyond . 
What ho , there , lad ! shouted Paul of Merely . 
We wouldst not harm thee come , we but ask the way to the castle of De Stutevill . 
The three knights listened but there was no answer . 
Come , Sir Knights , spoke Paul of Merely , we will ride within and learn what manner of churls inhabit this ancient rookery . 
We have lost our way in these devilish Derby hills of thine , old man , replied Paul of Merely . 
We seek the castle of Sir John de Stutevill . 
Hold , old fellow ! cried the spokesman . 
It be nigh onto sunset now , and we care not to sleep out again this night as we did the last . 
We will tarry with you then till morn that we may take up our journey re freshed , upon rested steeds . 
The old man grumbled , and it was with poor grace that he took them in to feed and house them over night . 
But there was nothing else for it , since they would have taken his hospitality by force had he refused to give it voluntarily . 
From their guests the two learned something of the conditions outside their Derby hills . 
If the King does not mend his ways , said one of the knights , we will drive his whole accursed pack of foreign blood suckers into the sea . 
He fears his brother in law , interrupted another of the knights , even more than the devil fears holy water . 
I was in attendance on his majesty some weeks since when he was going down the Thames upon the royal barge . 
Think you he looks so high as the throne itself ? Not so , cried the oldest of the knights . 
Simon de Montfort works for England's weal alone and methinks , nay knowest , that he would be first to spring to arms to save the throne for Henry . 
He but fights the King's rank and covetous advisers , and though he must needs seem to defy the King himself , it be but to save his tottering power from utter collapse . 
But , gad , how the King hates him . 
The old man , growing uneasy at the turn the con versation threatened , sent the youth from the room on some pretext , and himself left to prepare supper . 
Your son ? he asked , turning to the old man . 
Yes , was the growling response . 
He favors you but little , old fellow , except in his cursed French accent . 
Dids't ever see so strange a likeness ? Now that you speak of it , My Lord , I see it plainly . 
It is indeed a marvel , answered Beauchamp . 
Had they glanced at the old man during this colloquy they would have seen a blanched face , drawn with inward fear and rage . 
Presently the oldest member of the party of three knights spoke in a grave quiet tone . 
And how old might you be , my son ? he asked the boy . 
And your name ? I do not know what you mean . 
My father calls me son and no other ever before ad dressed me . 
The lad appears about fifteen , said Paul of Merely , lowering his voice , and so would be the little lost Prince Richard , if he lives . 
This one does not know his name , or his age , yet he looks enough like Prince Edward to be his twin . 
Come , my son , he continued aloud , open your jerkin and let us have a look at your left breast , we shall read a true answer there . 
Are you Englishmen ? asked the boy without mak ing a move to comply with their demand . 
That we be , my son , said Beauchamp . 
Then it were better that I die than do your bidding , for all Englishmen are pigs and I loathe them as be comes a gentleman of France . 
I do not uncover my body to the eyes of swine . 
The knights , at first taken back by this unexpected outbreak , finally burst into uproarious laughter . 
Indeed , cried Paul of Merely , spoken as one of the King's foreign favorites might speak , and they ever told the good God's truth . 
But come lad , we would not harm you do as I bid . 
But when he had drawn and engaged his youthful antagonist he discovered that , far from disarming him , he would have the devil's own job of it to keep from being killed . 
The loud laughter of Beauchamp and Greystoke soon subsided to grim smiles , and presently they looked on with startled faces in which fear and apprehension were dominant . 
The boy was fighting as a cat might play with a mouse . 
No sign of exertion was apparent , and his haughty confident smile told louder than words that he had in no sense let himself out to his full capacity . 
Around and around the room they circled , the boy always advancing , Paul of Merely always retreating . 
The din of their clashing swords and the heavy breath ing of the older man were the only sounds , except as they brushed against a bench or a table . 
Paul of Merely was a brave man , but he shuddered at the thought of dying uselessly at the hands of a mere boy . 
But the boy's only response was , En garde , cochon , and Beauchamp found himself taking the center of the stage in the place of his friend . 
Nor did the boy neglect Paul of Merely , but engaged them both in swordplay that caused the eyes of Greystoke to bulge from their sockets . 
It was now two against three and the three may have guessed , though they never knew , that they were pitted against the two greatest swordsmen in the world . 
To the death , cried the little gray man , a mort , mon fils . 
The old man engaged Greystoke now , and the boy turned his undivided attention to Beauchamp . 
As Beauchamp pitched forward across a bench , dead , the little old man led Greystoke to where the boy awaited him . 
They are thy enemies , my son , and to thee belongs the pleasure of revenge a mort , mon fils . 
Together they buried the knights at the bottom of the dry moat at the back of the ruined castle . 
But remember , Norman of Torn , that the best an swer for an Englishman is the sword naught else may penetrate his thick wit . 
During these days the boy rode Sir Mortimer abroad in many directions until he knew every bypath within a radius of fifty miles of Torn . 
Sometimes the old man accompanied him , but more often he rode alone . 
In all his life he remembered only the company of the old man , who never spoke except when necessity required . 
But I have come in peace because I wish to talk to another than my father . 
Therefore you may talk to me , priest , he concluded with haughty peremptoriness . 
By the nose of John , but it must be a king has deigned to honor me with his commands , laughed the priest . 
Raise your visor , My Lord , I would fain look upon the countenance from which issue the commands of royalty . 
The priest was a large man with beaming , kindly eyes , and a round jovial face . 
There was no bite in the tones of his good natured retort , and so , smiling , the boy raised his visor . 
Sit down and eat with me , and I will talk to your heart's content , for be there one other thing I more love than eating , it is talking . 
Thus began a friendship which lasted during the lifetime of the good priest . 
Whenever he could do so Norman of Torn visited his friend , Father Claude . 
It was he who taught the boy to read and write in French , English and Latin at a time when but few of the nobles could sign their own names . 
Six of them there were , clothed in dirty leather , and wearing swords and daggers at their sides . 
The leader was a mighty fellow with a great shock of coarse black hair and a red , bloated face almost con cealed by a huge matted black beard . 
A ha , my hearties , roared the leader , turning to his motley crew , fine pickings here indeed . 
I will throw myself before them while you hasten through the rear doorway to your horse , and make good your escape . 
Then rising he addressed the ruffians . 
I do not know what manner of grievance you hold against my good friend here , nor neither do I care . 
It is sufficient that he is the friend of Norman of Torn , and that Norman of Torn be here in person to acknowl edge the debt of friendship . 
Have at you , sir knights of the great filth and the mighty stink ! and with drawn sword he vaulted over the table and fell upon the sur prised leader . 
But Norman of Torn saw red when he fought and the red lured him ever on into the thickest of the fray . 
So it was , now , that instead of being satisfied with his victory he rushed out after the four knaves . 
In a moment one was disarmed , another down , and the remaining two fleeing for their lives toward the high road with Norman of Torn close at their heels . 
Come back to the good priest's hut , and we shall see what he may say , replied Norman of Torn . 
On the way back they found the man who had been disarmed bending over his wounded comrade . 
They were brothers , named Flory , and one would not desert the other . 
The villain's eyes fairly popped from his head when he saw his four comrades coming , unarmed and prison ers , back to the little room . 
The Black Wolf dead , Red Shandy and John Flory wounded , James Flory , One Eye Kanty and Peter the Hermit prisoners ! he ejaculated . 
Man or devil ! By the Pope's hind leg , who and what be ye ? he said , turning to Norman of Torn . 
I be your master and ye be my men , said Norman of Torn . 
Me ye shall serve in fairer work than ye have selected for yourselves , but with fighting a plenty and good reward . 
As was always his wont in his after life , to think was to act . 
But what be the duties ? said he whom they called Peter the Hermit . 
Aye , aye ! they cried . 
We be your men indeed . 
Wait , said Norman of Torn , there is more . 
You are to obey my every command on pain of instant death , and one half of all your gains are to be mine . 
Are you satisfied ? That we are , and Long live Norman of Torn , and Here's to the chief of the Torns signified the ready assent of the burly cut throats . 
Then swear it as ye kiss the hilt of my sword and this token , pursued Norman of Torn catching up a crucifix from the priest's table . 
As his following and wealth increased he rebuilt and enlarged the grim Castle of Torn , and again dammed the little stream which had furnished the moat with water in bygone days . 
Through all the length and breadth of the country that witnessed his activities his very name was wor shipped by poor and lowly and oppressed . 
Neither side knew which way his power might be turned , for Norman of Torn had preyed almost equally upon royalist and insurgent . 
Personally , he had decided to join neither party , but to take advantage of the tur moil of the times to prey without partiality upon both . 
Halting beneath this outer gate , the youth winded the horn which hung at his side in mimicry of the custom of the times . 
What ho , without there ! challenged the old man entering grimly into the spirit of the play . 
'Tis Sir Norman of Torn , spoke up Red Shandy , with his great host of noble knights and men at arms and squires and lackeys and sumpter beasts . 
Open in the name of the good right arm of Sir Norman of Torn . 
What means this , my son ? said the old man as Norman of Torn dismounted within the ballium . 
'Tis well , my son , and even as I myself would have it together we shall ride out , and where we ride a trail of blood shall mark our way . 
All England shall curse ye and the blood of Saxon and Norman shall never dry upon your blade . 
There should be great riding after such as he . 
He was on his feet in an instant , spitting blood , and in a towering rage . 
As Shandy rose , one by one , John Flory , James , his brother , One Eye Kanty , and Peter the Hermit knelt before their young lord and kissed his hand . 
From the Great Court beyond a little , grim , gray , old man had watched this scene , a slight smile upon his old , mali cious face . 
'Tis to transcend even my dearest dreams , he muttered . 
'S death , but he be more a king than Henry himself . 
As was his custom he rode with lowered visor , and nowhere upon his person or upon the trappings of his horse were sign or insignia of rank or house . 
He wore armor because his old guardian bad urged him to do so , and not because he craved the protection it afforded . 
And for the same cause he rode always with lowered visor , though he could never prevail upon the old man to explain the reason which necessitated this precaution . 
The time will come and soon now , I hope , when you shall uncover your countenance to all England . 
The young man gave the matter but little thought , usually passing it off as the foolish whim of an old dotard but he humored it nevertheless . 
Today the great , frowning pile loomed larger and more imposing than ever in the most resplendent days of its past grandeur . 
The fourth side of the walled enclosure overhung a high precipice , which natural protection rendered tow ers unnecessary upon this side . 
The main gateway of the castle looked toward the west and from it ran the tortuous and rocky trail , down through the mountains toward the valley below . 
The aspect from the great gate was one of quiet and rugged beauty . 
Two more gateways let into the great fortress , one piercing the north wall and one the east . 
All three gates were strongly fortified with towered and but tressed barbicans which must be taken before the main gates could be reached . 
And so , while the barons learned to hate him the more , the peasants' love for him increased . 
Nor did anyone dare ride rough shod over the territory which Norman of Torn patrolled . 
On this policy of his toward the serfs and freedmen Norman of Torn and the grim , old man whom he called father had never agreed . 
A ragged tunic was a surer defence against this wild horde than a stout lance or an emblazoned shield . 
What think you , Father Claude ? I have thought much of it , my son , answered the priest . 
Norman of Torn , if you are not the son of the old man you call father may God forfend that Eng land ever guesses your true parentage . 
More than this I dare not say except that as you value your peace of mind and your life , keep your visor down and keep out of the clutches of your enemies . 
Then you know why I should keep my visor down ? I can only guess , Norman of Torn , because I have seen another whom you resemble . 
The conversation was interrupted by a commotion from without the sound of horses' hoofs , the cries of men and the clash of arms . 
In an instant both men were at the tiny unglazed window . 
Presently one of the knights detached himself from the melee and rode to her side with some word of com mand , at the same time grasping roughly at her bridle rein . 
The great black was fleet , and , unencumbered by the usual heavy armor of his rider , soon brought the fugi tives to view . 
Scarce a mile had been covered ere the knight , turning to look for pursuers , saw the face of Norman of Torn not ten paces behind him . 
But , Your Highness , stammered the knight . 
Draw , or I stick you as I have stuck an hundred other English pigs , cried Norman of Torn . 
The knight arose , unhurt , and Norman of Torn dis mounted to give fair battle upon even terms . 
Though handicapped by the weight of his armor the knight also had the advantage of its protection , so that the two fought furiously for several minutes without either gain ing an advantage . 
The girl sat motionless and wide eyed at the side of the road watching every move of the two contestants . 
Quick , Sir Knight ! cried the girl . 
Mount and flee yonder come his fellows . 
As he spoke he took note for the first time of the young woman . 
No woman graced the castle of Torn nor had the boy , within his memory , ever known a mother . 
His attitude therefore was much the same toward women as it was toward men , except that he had sworn always to protect them . 
Possibly in a way he looked up to womankind , if it could be said that Norman of Torn looked up to anything God , man or devil . 
It being more his way to look down upon all creatures whom he took the trouble to notice at all . 
Then he turned once more to face her enemies with the strange inconsistency which had ever marked his methods . 
The three knights were now fairly upon him , and with fine disregard for fair play charged with couched spears the unarmored man on foot . 
One would think they had met the devil , muttered Norman of Torn , looking after them in unfeigned aston ishment . 
What means it , lady ? he asked turning to the dam sel , who had made no move to escape . 
It means that your face is well known in your fath er's realm , my Lord Prince , she replied . 
And the King's men have no desire to antagonize you even though they may understand as little as I why you should espouse the cause of a daughter of Simon de Montfort . 
Am I then taken for Prince Edward of England ? he asked . 
An' who else should you be taken for , my Lord ? I am not the Prince , said Norman of Torn . 
It is said that Edward is in France . 
Right you are , sir , exclaimed the girl . 
I had not thought on that but you be enough of his likeness that you might well deceive the Queen herself . 
And you be of a bravery fit for a king's son . 
That I be , replied the girl , an' from your face I take it you have little love for a De Montfort , she added , smiling . 
Wheresoever you would go will I accompany you to safety . 
I was but now bound , under escort of five of my father's knights , to visit Mary , daughter of John de Stutevill of Derby . 
Come , you have not far to travel now , and if we make haste you shall sup with your friend before dark . 
So saying , he mounted his horse and was turning to retrace their steps down the road when he noticed the body of the dead knight lying where it had fallen . 
Ride on , he called to Bertrade de Montfort , I will join you in an instant . 
Again dismounting he returned to the side of his late adversary , and lifting the dead knight's visor drew upon the forehead with the point of his dagger the letters NT . 
The girl turned to see what detained him , but his back was toward her and he knelt beside his fallen foe man , and she did not see his act . 
Their way to Stutevill lay past the cottage of Father Claude , and here Norman of Torn stopped to don his armor . 
While stories were abroad of his vile treatment of women captives , there was no truth in them . 
They were merely spread by his enemies to incite the people against him . 
Never had Norman of Torn laid violent hand upon a woman , and his cut throat band were under oath to respect and protect the sex , on penalty of death . 
As he watched the semi profile of the lovely face before him , something stirred in his heart which had been struggling for expression for years . 
It was not love , nor was it allied to love , but a deep longing for com panionship of such as she , and such as she represented . 
They rode for many miles in silence when suddenly she turned , saying You take your time , Sir Knight , in answering my query . 
Who be ye ? I am Nor and then he stopped . 
Always before he had answered that question with haughty pride . 
Why should he hesitate , he thought . 
But your name ? she said peremptorily . 
Are you ashamed of your name ? You may call me Roger , he answered . 
Raise your visor , Roger de Conde , she commanded . 
I do not take pleasure in riding with a suit of armor I would see that there is a man within . 
Norman of Torn smiled as he did her bidding , and when he smiled thus , as he rarely did , he was good to look upon . 
It is the first command I have obeyed since I turned sixteen , Bertrade de Montfort , he said . 
This Peter of Colfax shall be looked to , growled Norman of Torn . 
And as you have refused his heart and hand , his head shall be yours for the asking . 
You have but to command , Bertrade de Montfort . 
Very well , she laughed , thinking it but the idle boasting so much indulged in in those days . 
You may bring me his head upon a golden dish , Roger de Conde . 
And what reward does the knight earn who brings to the feet of his princess the head of her enemy ? he asked lightly . 
The girl laughed gaily as she answered , though some thing seemed to tell her that this was more than play . 
It shall be as you say , Sir Knight , she replied . 
And the boon once granted shall be always kept . 
Quick to reach decisions and as quick to act , Norman of Torn decided that he liked this girl and that he wished her friendship more than any other thing he knew of . 
They reached the castle of De Stutevill late in the afternoon , and there Norman of Torn was graciously welcomed and urged to accept the Baron's hospitality over night . 
We have been through grievous times , said Sir John , noticing that his guest was glancing at the vari ous evidences of conflict . 
That fiend , Norman the Devil , with his filthy pack of cut throats besieged us for ten days , and then took the castle by storm and sacked it . 
An' he may send the barons naked home as he did the King's soldiers , laughed Bertrade de Montfort . 
A fearful apparition , murmured Norman of Torn . 
No wonder he keeps his helm closed . 
But such a swordsman , spoke up a son of De Stute vill . 
Never in all the world was there such sword play as I saw that day in the courtyard . 
I , too , have seen some wonderful sword play , said Bertrade de Montfort , and that today . 
Norman of Torn led in the laugh which followed , and of all the company he most enjoyed the joke . 
It be more to his liking to come while the master be home to welcome him , said De Stutevill , ruthfully . 
But yet I am always in fear for the safety of my wife and daughters when I be away from Derby for any time . 
May the good God soon deliver England from this Devil of Torn . 
You shall see me again , and at the castle of your father , Simon de Montfort , in Leicester . 
Provided , he added , that you will welcome me there . 
I shall always welcome you , wherever I may be , Roger de Conde , replied the girl . 
Remember that promise , he said smiling . 
Some day you may be glad to repudiate it . 
I hope not , he said gravely . 
I cannot tell you , being but poorly trained in courtly ways , what I should like to tell you , that you might know how much your friendship means to me . 
Goodbye , Bertrade de Montfort , and he bent to one knee , as he raised her fingers to his lips . 
As Norman of Torn rode back to his grim castle in the hills of Derby he had much food for thought upon the way . 
He did not know the meaning of love , and so he could not know that he loved Bertrade de Montfort . 
And another thought which now filled his mind was the fact of his strange likeness to the Crown Prince of England . 
This , together with the words of Father Claude , puzzled him sorely . 
Not from fear , for he knew not fear , but from some inward impulse which he did not attempt to fathom . 
CHAPTER VIII AS Norman of Torn rode out from the castle of De Stutevill , Father Claude dismounted from his sleek donkey within the ballium of Torn . 
As Father Claude climbed down from his donkey fat people do not dismount a half dozen young squires ran forward to assist him , and to lead the animal to the stables . 
Good morrow , Saint Claude ! cried the burly ruf fian . 
Though methinks ye merit chiding for the grievous poor courtesy with which thou didst treat the great Bishop of Norwich the past week . 
Tut , tut , Father , replied Red Shandy . 
We did but aid him to adhere more closely to the injunctions and precepts of Him whose servant and disciple he claims to be . 
Forty stripes he gave to each of the Bishop's retinue for being abroad in bad company but come , here we are where you shall have the wine as proof of my tale . 
As the two sat sipping the Bishop's good Canary the little old man of Torn entered . 
He spoke to Father Claude in a surly tone , asking him if he knew aught of the whereabouts of Norman of Torn . 
We have seen nothing of him since , some three days gone , he rode out in the direction of your cottage , he concluded . 
Why , yes , said the priest , I saw him that day . 
Together they rode north , but thy son did not say whither or for what purpose . 
His only remark , as he donned his armor , while the girl waited without , was that I should now behold the falcon guarding the dove . 
Hast he not returned ? No , said the old man , and doubtless his adven ture is of a nature in line with thy puerile and effemi nate teachings . 
Had he followed my training , without thy accurst priestly interference , he had made an iron barred nest in Torn for many of the doves of thy damned English nobility . 
An' thou leave him not alone he will soon be seeking service in the household of the King . 
Where , perchance , he might be more at home than here , said the priest quietly . 
Why say you that ? snapped the little old man , eye ing Father Claude narrowly . 
For a few moments the two men sat in meditative silence , which was presently broken by the old man of Torn . 
Priest , he said , thy ways with my son are , as you know , not to my liking . 
It were needless that he should have wasted so much precious time from sword play to learn the useless art of letters . 
Of what benefit may a knowledge of Latin be to one whose doom looms large before him . 
It may be years and again it may be but months , but as sure as there be a devil in hell Norman of Torn will swing from a king's gibbet . 
For all thou dost and hast done to blight and curse the nobleness of his nature , I have done and shall continue to do all in my power to controvert . 
Thou hast made thyself and thy opinions quite clear , he said bitterly , but I be glad to know just how thou standeth . 
In the past there has been peace be tween us , though no love now let us both understand that it be war and hate . 
My life work is cut out for me . 
Father Claude returned the look with calm level gaze . 
I understand , he said , and , rising , left the castle . 
Shortly after he had reached his cottage a loud knock sounded at the door , which immediately swung open without waiting the formality of permission . 
Father Claude looked up to see the tall figure of Norman of Torn , and his face lighted with a pleased smile of welcome . 
Greetings , my son , said the priest . 
Come , come , Father , replied the outlaw , what dost I that I have not good example for from the barons , and the King , and Holy Church . 
Only do I collect from those who have more than they need , from my natural enemies while they prey upon those who have naught . 
Yet , and his manner suddenly changed , I do not love it , Father . 
I would that there might be some way out of it , but there is none . 
But it is too late , Father , there can be but one end and that the lower end of a hempen rope . 
No , my son , there is another way , an honorable way , replied the good Father . 
In some foreign clime there be opportunities abundant for such as thee . 
France offers a magnificent , future to such a soldier as Norman of Torn . 
In the court of Louis you would take your place among the highest of the land . 
With such wondrous gifts naught could bar your way to the highest pinnacles of power and glory , while here you have no future beyond the halter . 
Canst thou hesitate , Norman of Torn ? The young man stood silent for a moment , then he drew his hand across his eyes as though to brush away a vision . 
There be a reason , Father , why I must remain in England for a time at least , though the picture you put is indeed wondrous alluring . 
And the reason was Bertrade de Montfort . 
CHAPTER IX THE visit of Bertrade de Montfort with her friend Mary de Stutevill was drawing to a close . 
Methinks thou be very rash indeed , my Bertrade , said Mary . 
Wert my father here he would , I am sure , not permit thee to leave with only the small escort which we be able to give . 
Fear not , Mary , replied Bertrade , five of thy fath er's knights be ample protection for so short a journey . 
But what about the Devil of Torn , Bertrade ? urged Mary . 
He be abroad , Bertrade , and I canst think of naught more horrible than to fall into his hands . 
Why , Mary , thou didst but recently say thy very self that Norman of Torn was most courteous to thee when he sacked this , thy father's castle . 
Again , forget not that thou be Leicester's daughter and Henry's niece against both of whom the Outlaw of Torn open ly swears his hatred and his vengeance . 
Oh , Bertrade , wait but for a day or so , I be sure my father must return ere then , and fifty knights shall accompany thee instead of five . 
What be fifty knights against Norman of Torn , Mary ? Thy reasoning is on a parity with thy fears , both have flown wide of the mark . 
No , Mary , I shall start tomorrow and your good knights shall return the following day with the best of word from me . 
If thou wilst , thou wilst , cried Mary petulantly . 
Indeed it were plain that thou be a De Montfort that race whose historic bravery be second only to their historic stubbornness . 
Bertrade de Montfort laughed , and kissed her friend upon the cheek . 
Mayhap I shall find the brave Roger de Conde again upon the highroad to protect me . 
Then indeed shall I send back your five knights , for of a truth his blade is more powerful than that of any ten men I ere saw fight before . 
Bertrade flushed , and then bit her lip as she felt the warm blood mount to her cheek . 
Thou be a fool , Mary , she said . 
Mary broke into a joyful , teasing laugh hugely en joying the discomfiture of the admission the tell tale flush proclaimed . 
Ah , I did but guess how thy heart and thy mind tended , Bertrade but now I seest that I divined all too truly . 
He be indeed good to look upon , but what knowest thou of him ? Hush , Mary ! commanded Bertrade . 
Thou know not what thou sayest . 
Mon Dieu , but thou hast strange notions , Bertrade . 
I will not talk with you , Mary , cried Bertrade , stamping her sandaled foot , and with a toss of her pretty head she turned abruptly toward the castle . 
In a small chamber in the castle of Colfax two men sat at opposite sides of a little table . 
The one , Peter of Colfax , was short and very stout . 
His com panion was a little , grim , gray man but his suit of armor and closed helm gave no hint to his host of whom his guest might be . 
It was the little armored man who was speaking . 
Thou failed in thy attempt to capture the maiden give me ten knights and I will bring her to you . 
How knowest thou she rides out tomorrow for her father's castle ? asked Peter of Colfax . 
Still Peter of Colfax hesitated , he feared this might be a ruse of Leicester's to catch him in some trap . 
He did not know his guest the fellow might want the girl for himself and be taking this method of obtaining the necessary assistance to capture her . 
Come , said the little , armored man irritably . 
I cannot bide here forever . 
This last threat decided the Baron . 
It is agreed , he said . 
The men shall ride out with you in half an hour . 
Wait below , in the court yard . 
When the little man had left the apartment Peter of Colfax summoned his squire whom he had send to him at once one of his faithful henchmen . 
Guy , said Peter of Colfax , as the man entered , ye made a rare fizzle of a piece of business some weeks ago . 
Ye wot of which I speak ? Yes , My Lord . 
It chances that on the morrow ye may have oppor tunity to retrieve thy blunder . 
Ride out with ten men where the stranger who waits in the courtyard below shall lead ye , and come not back without that which ye lost to a handful of men before . 
You understand ? Yes , My Lord ! And , Guy , I half mistrust this fellow who hath of fered to assist us . 
At the first sign of treachery fall upon him with all thy men and slay him . 
Tell the others that these be my orders . 
When do we ride ? At once . 
The morning that Bertrade de Montfort had chosen to return to her father's castle dawned gray and threat ening . 
Already have I overstayed my time three days , and it is not lightly that even I , his daughter , fail in obedi ence to Simon de Montfort . 
I shall have enough to account for as it be . 
Do not urge me to add even one more day to my excuses . 
And again , perchance , my mother and my father may be sore distressed by my continued absence . 
No , Mary , I must ride today . 
And so she did , with the five knights that could be spared from the castle's defence . 
Less than half the journey had been accomplished . 
They were winding across a little hollow toward a low ridge covered with dense forest , into the somber shad ows of which the road wound . 
There was a glint of armor among the drenched foliage , but the rain buf feted eyes of the riders saw it not . 
On they came , their patient horses plodding slowly through the sticky road and hurtling storm . 
Now they were half way up the ridge's side . 
There was a movement in the dark shadows of the grim wood , and then without cry or warning a band of steel clad horsemen broke forth with couched spears . 
Charging at full run down upon them they overthrew three of the girl's escort before a blow could be struck in her defense . 
Calling to his companions he set out at a rapid pace in pursuit . 
Nobly the beautiful Arab bent to her call for speed . 
But for the fiendish cunning of the little grim , gray man's foresight Bertrade de Montfort would have made good her escape that day . 
In either event his purpose would be accomplished , and Bertrade de Montfort would no longer lure Norman of Torn from the path he had laid out for him . 
The men of Peter of Colfax gathered up the lifeless form of Bertrade de Montfort and placed it across the saddle before one of their number . 
Come , said the man called Guy , if there be life left in her we must hasten to Sir Peter before it be extinct . 
I leave ye here , said the little old man . 
My part of the business is done . 
And so he sat watching them until they had disap peared in the forest toward the castle of Colfax . 
Then he rode back to the scene of the encounter where lay the five knights of Sir John de Stutevill . 
Three were already dead , the other two , sorely but not mortally wounded , lay groaning by the roadside . 
The little grim , gray man dismounted as he came abreast of them and with his long sword silently finished the two wounded men . 
Then , drawing his dagger , he made a mark upon the dead foreheads of each of the five , and mounting , rode rapidly toward Torn . 
And if one fact be not enough , he muttered , that mark upon the dead will quite effectually stop further intercourse between the houses of Torn and Leicester . 
Henry de Montfort , son of Simon , rode fast and furious at the head of a dozen of his father's knights on the road to Stutevill . 
By God , cried De Montfort , tis my sister's own Abdul . 
There be something wrong here indeed . 
But a rapid search of the vicinity , and loud calls brought no further evidence of the girl's whereabouts , so they pressed on toward Stutevill . 
Some two miles beyond the spot where the white palfrey had been found they came upon the dead bodies of the five knights who had accompanied Bertrade from Stutevill . 
Dismounting , Henry de Montfort examined the bodies of the fallen men . 
The arms upon shield and helm con firmed his first fear that these had been Bertrade's escort from Stutevill . 
The curse of God be on him ! cried De Montfort . 
It be the work of the Devil of Torn , my gentlemen , he said to his followers . 
Come , we need no further guide to our destination . 
And , remounting , the little party spurred back toward Torn . 
Ho , ho ! she croaked . 
I told My Lord that it would take more than a tumble in the mud to kill a De Montfort . 
Come , come , now , arise and clothe thyself , for the handsome bridegroom canst scarce restrain his eager desire to fold thee in his arms . 
Below in the great hall he paces to and fro , the red blood mantling his beauteous countenance . 
Who be ye ? cried Bertrade de Montfort , her mind still dazed from the effects of her fall . 
Where am I ? and then , O , Mon Dieu ! as she remembered the events of the afternoon and the arms of Colfax upon the shields of the attacking party . 
In an instant she realized the horror of her predicament its utter hope lessness . 
In the corridor without she heard the heavy tramp of approaching feet , and presently a man's voice at the door . 
Haste then , My Lady Bertrade , called the man , no harm will be done thee if thou showest the good sense I give thee credit for . 
I will await thee in the great hall , or , if thou prefer , wilt come to thee here . 
The girl paled , more in loathing and contempt than in fear , but the tones of her answer were calm and level . 
The old woman attempted to draw her into conver sation , but the girl would not talk . 
Her whole mind was devoted to weighing each possible means of escape . 
A half hour later she entered the great hall of the castle of Peter of Colfax . 
Little change had been wrought in the apartment since the days of Ethelwolf . 
As the girl's glance ranged the hall in search of her jailer it rested upon the narrow , un glazed windows beyond which lay freedom . 
Her wandering eyes took in the dozen benches and the few rude , heavy chairs which completed the rough furnishings of this rough room , and she shuddered . 
One little foot tapped sullenly upon the disordered floor which was littered with a miscellany of rushes inter spread with such bones and scraps of food as the dogs had rejected or overlooked . 
This was at one side , and as it stood ajar she could see that it led into a small room , apparently a bedchamber . 
As she stood facing the main doorway a panel opened quietly behind her and directly back of where the thrones had stood in past times . 
From the black mouth of the aperture stepped Peter of Colfax . 
Silently he closed the panel after him , and with soundless steps advanced toward the girl . 
At the edge of the raised dais he halted , rattling his sword to attract her attention . 
See I kneel to thee , my dove ! And with cracking joints the fat baron plumped down upon his marrow bones . 
Bertrade turned and as she saw him her haughty countenance relaxed into a sneering smile . 
Thou art a fool , Sir Peter , she said , and , at that , the worst species of fool an ancient fool . 
It is useless to pursue thy cause , for I will have none of thee . 
Let me hence , if thou be a gentleman , and no word of what hath transpired shall ever pass my lips . 
But let me go , 'tis all I ask , and it is useless to detain me for I cannot give what you would have . 
As he gained his feet he saw the girl turn her head from him to hide the laughter on her face . 
Return to thy chamber , he thundered . 
The girl turned toward him , the laugh still playing on her lips . 
I will be wife to no buffoon to no clumsy old clown to no debauched , degraded parody of a man . 
And Bertrade de Montfort swept from the great hall , and mounted to her tower chamber in the ancient Saxon stronghold of Colfax . 
The old woman kept watch over her during the night and until late the following afternoon , when Peter of Colfax summoned his prisoner before him once more . 
The room in which she was imprisoned was in the west tower of the castle , fully a hundred feet above the moat , which the single embrasure overlooked . 
There was , therefore , no avenue of escape in this direction . 
The solitary door was furnished with huge oaken bars , and itself composed of mighty planks of the same wood , cross barred with iron . 
Her dagger had been taken from her , but one hung from the girdle of the old woman and this Bertrade determined to have . 
Quickly she sprang back from the old woman who , with a cry of anger and alarm , rushed upon her . 
Back ! cried the girl . 
Stand back , old hag , or thou shalt feel the length of thine own blade . 
The woman hesitated and then fell to cursing and blaspheming in a most horrible manner , at the same time calling for help . 
Bertrade backed to the door , commanding the old woman to remain where she was , on pain of death , and quickly dropped the mighty bars into place . 
Scarcely had the last great bolt been slipped than Peter of Colfax with a dozen servants and men at arms were pounding loudly upon the outside . 
What's wrong within , Coll , cried the Baron . 
The wench has wrested my dagger from me and is murdering me , shrieked the old woman . 
Peter of Colfax pled and threatened , commanded and coaxed , but all in vain . 
So passed the afternoon , and as darkness settled upon the castle the Baron desisted from his attempts , intending to starve his prisoner out . 
Within the little room Bertrade de Montfort sat upon a bench guarding her prisoner , from whom she did not dare move her eyes for a single second . 
All that long night she sat thus , and when morning dawned it found her position unchanged , her tired eyes still fixed upon the hag . 
Then will I starve you out , he cried at length . 
Gladly will I starve in preference to falling into thy foul hands , replied the girl . 
Thus the keen dagger in the girl's hand put an end to all hopes of entering without completely demolishing the door . 
To this work the men without then set themselves diligently while Peter of Colfax renewed his entreaties , through the small opening they had made . 
Seest thou this poniard ? she asked . 
When that door falls this point enters my heart . 
There is nothing beyond that door , with thou , poltroon , to which death in this little chamber would not be preferable . 
As she spoke she turned toward the man she was addressing , for the first time during all those weary , hideous hours removing her glance from the old hag . 
Silently , but with the quickness of a tigress the old woman was upon her back , one claw like paw grasping the wrist which held the dagger . 
Quick , My Lord ! she shrieked , the bolts , quick . 
Instantly Peter of Colfax ran his arm through the tiny opening in the door and a second later four of his men rushed to the aid of the old woman . 
Easily they wrested the dagger from Bertrade's fin gers , and at the Baron's bidding they dragged her to the great hall below . 
As his retainers left the room at his command Peter of Colfax strode back and forth upon the rushes which strewed the floor . 
Finally he stopped before the girl standing rigid in the center of the room . 
Hast come to thy senses yet , Bertrade de Mont fort ? he asked angrily . 
I have offered you your choice to be the honored wife of Peter of Colfax , or , by force , his mistress . 
The good priest waits without , what be your answer now ? The same as it has been these past two days , she replied with haughty scorn . 
The same that it shall always be . 
I will be neither wife nor mistress to a co ward a hideous , abhorrent pig of a man . 
I would die , it seems , if I felt the touch of your hand upon me . 
You do not dare to touch me , you craven . 
You have gone too far . 
Enough of this and you love me not now I shall learn you to love ere the sun rises . 
And with a vile oath he grasped the girl roughly by the arm , and dragged her toward the little doorway at the side of the room . 
Shortly after his return to Torn , following the success ful outcome of his expedition , the watch upon the tower reported the approach of a dozen armed knights . 
Admit them , Shandy , commanded Norman of Torn , I will speak with them here . 
When the party , a few moments later , was ushered into his presence it found itself facing a mailed knight with drawn visor . 
Henry de Montfort advanced with haughty dignity until he faced the outlaw . 
Be ye Norman of Torn ? he asked . 
And did he try to conceal the hatred and loathing which he felt , he was poorly successful . 
They call me so , replied the visored knight . 
And what may bring a De Montfort after so many years to visit his old neighbor ? Well ye know what brings me , Norman of Torn , re plied the young man . 
It is useless to waste words , and we cannot resort to arms , for you have us entirely in your power . 
Name your price and it shall be paid , only be quick and let me hence with my sister . 
We know that it was you for the foreheads of the dead men bore your devil's mark . 
Shandy ! roared Norman of Torn . 
WHAT MEANS THIS ? Who has been upon the road , attacking women , in my absence ? You were here and in charge during my visit to my Lord de Grey . 
Your sister is not here . 
I give you the word of honor of Norman of Torn . 
Is it not enough ? They say you never lie , replied De Montfort . 
Would to God I knew who had done this thing , or which way to search for my sister . 
The great troop , winding down the rocky trail from Torn's buttressed gates , presented a picture of wild barbaric splendor . 
The armor of the men was of every style and metal from the ancient banded mail of the Saxon to the richly ornamented plate armor of Milan . 
Fluttering pennons streamed from five hundred lance points , and the gray banner of Torn , with the black falcon's wing , flew above each of the five companies . 
The great linden wood shields of the men were cov ered with gray leather and in the upper right hand corner of each was the black falcon's wing . 
The only requisites for admis sion to the troop were willingness and ability to fight , and an oath to obey the laws made by Norman of Torn . 
The little army was divided into ten companies of one hundred men , each company captained by a fighter of proven worth and ability . 
Our old friends Red Shandy , and John and James Flory led the first three companies , the remaining seven being under command of other seasoned veterans of a thousand fights . 
Today , as they wound west across the valley , Norman of Torn rode at the head of the cavalcade , which strung out behind him in a long column . 
Above his gray steel armor a falcon's wing rose from his crest . 
It was the insignia which always marked him to his men in the midst of battle . 
Where it waved might always be found the fighting and the honors , and about it they were wont to rally . 
Beside Norman of Torn rode the grim , gray , old man , silent and taciturn nursing his deep hatred in the depths of his malign brain . 
It was midnight ere they sighted the black towers of Colfax silhouetted against the starry sky . 
Here they dismounted and Nor man of Torn crept stealthily forward alone . 
Taking advantage of every cover he approached to the very shadows of the great gate without being detected . 
In the castle a light shone dimly from the windows of the great hall , but no other sign of life was apparent . 
To his intense surprise , Norman of Torn found the draw bridge lowered and no sign of watchmen at the gate or upon the walls . 
The girl saw him too , and a look of hope and renewed courage overspread her face . 
Draw ! commanded a low voice in English , unless you prefer to pray , for you are about to die . 
Who be ye , varlet ? cried the Baron . 
It had been short shrift for Peter of Colfax that night had not John and Guy and another of his henchmen rushed into the room with drawn swords . 
Ware ! Sir Knight , cried the girl , as she saw the three knaves rushing to the aid of their master . 
The knight was holding his own splendidly with the three retainers , and for an instant Bertrade de Mont fort stood spell bound by the exhibition of swordsman ship she was witnessing . 
It struck him below the knees and toppled him to the floor just as the knight's sword passed through the throat of his final antagonist . 
As the Baron fell he struck heavily upon a table which supported the only lighted cresset within the chamber . 
In an instant all was darkness . 
There was a rapid shuffling sound as of the scurrying of rats and then the quiet of the tomb settled upon the great hall . 
Are you safe and unhurt , my Lady Bertrade ? asked a grave English voice out of the darkness . 
Have a care , Sir Knight , he may even now be upon you . 
The knight did not answer , but she heard him mov ing boldly about the room . 
Soon he had found another lamp and made a light . 
The knight perceived his absence at the same time , but he only laughed a low , grim laugh . 
He will not go far , My Lady Bertrade , he said . 
How know you my name ? she asked . 
Who may you be ? I do not recognize your armor , and your breastplate bears no arms . 
Surely it was the same straight and mighty figure , and there was the marvelous sword play as well . 
It must be he , and yet Roger de Conde had spoken no English while this man spoke it well , though , it was true , with a slight French accent . 
My Lady Bertrade , I be Norman of Torn , said the visored knight with quiet dignity . 
The girl's heart sank , and a feeling of cold fear crept through her . 
For years that name had been the symbol of fierce cruelty , and mad hatred against her kind . 
Little children were frightened into obedience by the vaguest hint that the Devil of Torn would get them , and grown men had come to whisper the name with grim , set lips . 
Norman of Torn ! she whispered . 
You need not fear , My Lady , he said sadly . 
You shall be in your father's castle of Leicester ere the sun marks noon . 
And you will be safer under the protection of the hated Devil of Torn than with your own mighty father , or your royal uncle . 
It is said that you never lie , Norman of Torn , spoke the girl , and I believe you , but tell me why you thus befriend a De Montfort . 
It is not for love of your father or your brothers , nor yet hatred of Peter of Colfax , nor neither for any reward whatsoever . 
It pleases me to do as I do , that is all . 
Take a dozen men , Shandy , and search yon hellhole . 
Tonight we ride to redress a wrong done to My Lady Bertrade de Mont fort , and that , Shandy , is a different matter . 
The torch , Shandy , from tower to scullery , but in the service of My Lady , no looting . 
Yes , My Lord , answered Shandy , and departed with his little detachment . 
In a half hour he returned with a dozen prisoners , but no Peter of Colfax . 
He has flown , My Lord , the big fellow reported , and indeed it was true . 
Peter of Colfax had passed through the vaults beneath his castle and by a long sub terranean passage had reached the quarters of some priests without the lines of Norman of Torn . 
He will return , was the outlaw's only comment , when he had been fully convinced that the Baron had es caped . 
They watched until the castle had burst into flames in a dozen places , the prisoners huddled together in terror and apprehension , fully expecting a summary and hor rible death . 
As they looked back they saw the heavens red with the great flames that sprang high above the lofty towers . 
Immense volumes of dense smoke rolled south ward across the sky line . 
It was a gorgeous , impressive spectacle , but one so common in those fierce , wild days , that none thought it worthy of more than a passing backward glance . 
Varied emotions filled the breasts of the several riders who wended their slow way down the mud slippery road . 
Norman of Torn was both elated and sad . 
Elated that he had been in time to save this girl who awakened such strange emotions in his breast sad that he was a loathesome thing in her eyes . 
She could not fathom it , and yet , he seemed fair spoken for so rough a man she wondered what man ner of countenance might lie beneath that barred visor . 
He would enter with one companion , my Lord Earl . 
Dares Norman of Torn enter the castle of Simon de Montfort thinks he that I keep a robbers' roost ! cried the fierce old warrior . 
Norman of Torn dares ride where he will in all Eng land , boasted the red giant . 
In the courtyard they were met by Simon de Montfort , and his sons Henry and Simon . 
The girl threw herself impetuously from her mount , and , flinging aside the outlaw's cloak , rushed toward her astounded parent . 
And with his words the young man flung himself upon Norman of Torn with drawn sword . 
Then she explained briefly to her astonished father and brothers what had befallen during the past few days . 
The outlaw but held up his open palm , as he said , Let the De Montforts think well ere they take the hand of Norman of Torn . 
I give not my hand except in friendship , and not for a passing moment but for life . 
Your speech is that of a wise and careful man , said Norman of Torn quietly . 
But as he turned to go , Bertrade de Montfort confronted him with outstretched hand . 
He took the little fingers in his mailed hand , and bending upon one knee raised them to his lips . 
To no other woman , man , king , God , or devil has Norman of Torn bent the knee . 
If ever you need him , My Lady Bertrade , remember that his services are yours for the asking . 
And turning he mounted and rode in silence from the courtyard of the castle of Leicester . 
Without a back ward glance , and with his five hundred men at his back , Norman of Torn disappeared beyond a turning in the roadway . 
A strange man , said Simon de Montfort , both good and bad , but from today I shall ever believe more good than bad . 
Would that he were other than he be for his arm would wield a heavy sword against the ene mies of England , an he could be persuaded to our cause . 
Who knows , said Henry de Montfort , but that an offer of friendship might have won him to a better life . 
It seemed that in his speech was a note of wistfulness . 
I wish , father , that we had taken his hand . 
CHAPTER XI SEVERAL days after Norman of Torn's visit to the castle of Leicester , a young knight appeared before the Earl's gates demanding admittance to have speech with Simon de Montfort . 
The Earl received him , and as the young man entered his presence Simon de Montfort sprang to his feet in astonishment . 
My Lord Prince , he cried . 
What do ye here , and alone ? The young man smiled . 
I be no prince , My Lord , he said , though some have said that I favor the King's son . 
I be Roger de Conde whom it may have pleased your gracious daugh ter to mention . 
I have come to pay homage to Bertrade de Montfort . 
Bertrade has had your name upon her tongue many times since her return . 
She will be glad indeed to re ceive you , as is her father . 
She has told us of your valiant espousal of her cause , and the thanks of her brothers and mother await you , Roger de Conde . 
Come , we will seek out my daughter and her mother . 
De Montfort led the young man to a small chamber where they were greeted by Princess Eleanor , his wife , and by Bertrade de Montfort . 
The girl was frankly glad to see him once more and laughingly chid him because he had allowed another to usurp his prerogative and rescue her from Peter of Colfax . 
And to think , she cried , that it should have been Norman of Torn who fulfilled your duties for you . 
But he did not capture Sir Peter's head , my friend that is still at large to be brought to me upon a golden dish . 
I have not forgotten , Lady Bertrade , said Roger de Conde . 
Peter of Colfax will return . 
The girl glanced at him quickly . 
The very words of the Outlaw of Torn , she said . 
And which would it please ye most that I be ? he laughed . 
Neither , she answered , I be satisfied with my friend , Roger de Conde . 
So ye like not the Devil of Torn ? he asked . 
A most unbridgeable gulf indeed , commented Rog er de Conde , drily . 
Not even gratitude could lead a king's niece to receive Norman of Torn on a footing of equality . 
He has my friendship , always , said the girl , but I doubt me if Norman of Torn be the man to impose upon it . 
One can never tell , said Roger de Conde , what manner of fool a man may be . 
If I turned a compliment I did not know it , he said . 
What I think , I say . 
It may not be a courtly speech or it may . 
I know nothing of courts and care less , but be it man or maid to whom I speak , I say what is in my mind or I say nothing . 
Nor can you chide my sinful brain that it gladly believes what mine eyes tell it . 
No , you may not be angry so long as I do not tell you all this . 
Why refused you the offer of my father ? said Ber trade to him as he was come to bid her farewell . 
Simon de Montfort is as great a man in England as the King himself , and your future were assured did you attach your self to his person . 
I would give my soul to the devil , said Norman of Torn , would it buy me the right to remain ever at the feet of Bertrade Montfort . 
The touch of those pure lips brought the man to himself . 
She looked up into his face in surprise , and then placing her strong white hands upon his shoulders , she whispered See , Roger , I am not angry . 
It is not wrong that we love tell me it is not , Roger . 
You must not say that you love me , Bertrade . 
I am a coward , a craven poltroon but , God , how I love you . 
But , said the girl , I do love Stop , he cried , not yet , not yet . 
Do not say it till I come again . 
I do not understand , but I know that you must have some good reason , though it all seems very strange to me . 
I have no wife nor within the limits of my memory have my lips ever before touched the lips of another , for I do not remember my mother . 
I do not fear , since I know that you must be all good . 
There be no line of vice or deception upon your face and you are very brave . 
So brave and noble a man , Roger , has a heart of pure gold . 
Don't , he said , bitterly . 
Then , but not before , shall I speak to the Earl , thy father . 
Farewell , Bertrade , in a few days I return . 
The girl paled , but not from fear of her father , for the fighting blood of the De Montforts was as strong in her as in her sire . 
She faced him with as brave and resolute a face as did the young man , who turned slowly , fixing De Montfort with level gaze . 
I heard enough of your words as I was passing through the corridor , continued the latter , to readily guess what had gone before . 
Get ye hence , and be only thankful that I do not aid you with the toe of my boot where it would do the most good . 
Stop ! cried the girl . 
The fellow has been amply repaid by the friendship of De Montfort , but now this act of perfidy has wiped clean the score . 
An' you would go in peace , sirrah , go quickly , ere I lose my temper . 
There has been some misunderstanding on your part , My Lord , spoke Norman of Torn , quietly and without apparent anger or excitement . 
Your daughter has not told me that she loves me , nor did I contem plate asking you for her hand . 
When next I come , first shall I see her and if she will have me , My Lord , I shall come to you to tell you that I shall wed her . 
Norm Roger de Conde asks permission of no man to do what he would do . 
And as for you , sir , I would as lief see her the wife of the Outlaw of Torn . 
He at least has wealth and power , and a name that be known outside his own armor . 
But enough of this get you gone , nor let me see your face again within the walls of Leicester's castle . 
You are right , My Lord , it were foolish and idle for us to be quarreling with words , said the outlaw . 
I shall return as I promised , and your word shall be law . 
And with a profound bow to De Montfort , Norman of Torn left the apartment , and in a few minutes was riding through the courtyard of the castle toward the main portals . 
Take this , Roger de Conde , she whispered , drop ping a tiny parcel to him , and wear it ever , for my sake . 
Wait , my lady , until I return , then shall you decide , and if ye be of the same mind as today , never fear but that I shall take ye . 
And with a brave smile that hid a sad heart , Norman of Torn passed out of the castle yard . 
When he undid the parcel which Bertrade had tossed to him he found that it contained a beautifully wrought ring set with a single opal . 
The Outlaw of Torn raised the little circlet to his lips , and then slipped it upon the third finger of his left hand . 
CHAPTER XII NORMAN of Torn did not return to the castle of Leicester in a few days , nor for many months . 
For news came to him that Bertrade de Montfort had been posted off to France in charge of her mother . 
If she wants me then , he thought , but she will not , no it is impossible . 
If that be the case , said Norman of Torn , we shall have war and fighting in real earnest ere many months . 
And under which standard does My Lord Norman expect to fight ? asked Father Claude . 
Under the black falcon's wing , laughed he of Torn . 
Thou be indeed a close mouthed man , my son , said the priest , smiling . 
Such an attribute helpeth make a great statesman . 
With thy soldierly qualities in addi tion , my dear boy , there be a great future for thee in the paths of honest men . 
Dost remember our past talk ? Yes , father , well and often have I thought on't . 
I have one more duty to perform here in England and then it may be , that I shall act on thy suggestion , but only on one condition . 
What be that , my son ? That wheresoere I go thou must go also . 
The priest sat looking intently at the young man for many minutes before he spoke . 
Without the cottage a swarthy figure skulked be neath one of the windows , listening to such fragments of the conversation within as came to his attentive ears . 
It was Spizo the Spaniard . 
He crouched entirely con cealed by a great lilac bush , which many times before had hid his traitorous form . 
At length the priest spoke . 
Thyself hast said an hundred times that thou knowst not the reason for thy hatred against them . 
Thou be too strong a man to so throw thy life uselessly away to satisfy the choler of another . 
Nay , do not deny it . 
And now what I would say be this . 
In all England there lives no more honorable man than Simon de Montfort , nor none who could more truly decide upon thy future and thy past . 
Thou may not understand of what I hint , but thou know that thou may trust me , Norman of Torn . 
Yea , even with my life and honor , my father , re plied the outlaw . 
He will be the best judge of any in England , save two who must now remain nameless . 
I will come , Father , but it must be soon for on the fourth day we ride south . 
Spizo the Spaniard reached Torn several minutes before the outlaw chief and had already poured his tale into the ears of the little , grim , gray , old man . 
As the priest's words were detailed to him the old man of Torn paled in anger . 
The fool priest will upset the whole work to which I have devoted near twenty years , he muttered , if I find not the means to quiet his half wit tongue . 
Be tween priest and petticoat it be all but ruined now . 
Well then , so much the sooner must I act , and I know not but that now be as good a time as any . 
The old man eyed him closely . 
An did I more , Spizo , thou heardst naught but mut tering , remember . 
An hour later the old man of Torn dismounted be fore the cottage of Father Claude and entered . 
I am honored , said the priest , rising . 
Priest , cried the old man , coming immediately to the point , Norman of Torn tells me that thou wish him and me and Leicester to meet here . 
I know not what thy purpose may be , but for the boy's sake carry not out thy design as yet . 
I may not tell thee my rea sons , but it be best that this meeting take place after we return from the south . 
The old man had never spoken so fairly to Father Claude before , and so the latter was quite deceived and promised to let the matter rest until later . 
A few days after , in the summer of , Norman of Torn rode at the head of his army of outlaws through the county of Essex , down toward London town . 
One thousand fighting men there were , with squires and other servants , and five hundred sumpter beasts to transport their tents and other impedimenta , and bring back the loot . 
But a small force of ailing men at arms , and servants had been left to guard the castle of Torn under the able direction of Peter the Hermit . 
Horsan the Dane , with his company , formed the rear guard . 
Three hun dred yards in advance of the column rode ten men to guard against surprise and ambuscades . 
All his captains rode today with Norman of Torn . 
Beside those whom we have met there was Don Piedro Castro y Pensilo of Spain Baron of Cobarth of Germany , and Sir John Mandecote of England . 
Toward noon one day in the midst of a beautiful valley of Essex they came upon a party of ten knights escorting two young women . 
The meeting was at a turn in the road , so that the two parties were upon each other before the ten knights had an opportunity to escape with their fair wards . 
The faces of the knights blanched , for they were ten against a thousand , and there were two women with them . 
Who be ye ? said the outlaw . 
I am Richard de Tany of Essex , said the oldest knight , he who had first spoken , and these be my daughter and her friend , Mary de Stutevill . 
We are upon our way from London to my castle . 
What would you of us ? Name your price , if it can be paid with honor it shall be paid only let us go our way in peace . 
We cannot hope to resist the Devil of Torn , for we be but ten lances . 
If ye must have blood , at least let the women go unharmed . 
My Lady Mary is an old friend , said the outlaw . 
I called at her father's home but little more than a year since . 
We are neighbors , and the lady can tell you that women are safer at the hands of Norman of Torn than they might be in the King's palace . 
I have no quarrel with you , Richard de Tany , said Norman of Torn . 
In a few moments the great drawbridge sank slowly into place and Norman of Torn trotted into the court yard . 
He was escorted to an apartment where Mary de Stutevill and Joan de Tany were waiting to receive him . 
Are all your old friends and neighbors come after you to Essex , cried Joan de Tany , laughingly , address ing Mary . 
Today it is Roger de Conde , yesterday it was the Outlaw of Torn . 
Methinks Derby will soon be depopulated unless you return quickly to your home . 
I rather think it be for news of another that we owe this visit from Roger de Conde , said Mary , smiling . 
For I have heard tales , and I see a great ring upon the gentleman's hand a ring which I have seen before . 
Norman of Torn made no attempt to deny the reason for his visit , but asked bluntly if she heard aught of Bertrade de Montfort . 
Thrice within the year have I received missives from her , replied Mary . 
Both girls were watching the countenance of Roger de Conde narrowly , but no sign of the sorrow which filled his heart showed itself upon his face . 
I guess it be better so , he said quietly . 
The daugh ter of a De Montfort could scarcely be happy with a nameless adventurer , he added , a little bitterly . 
But let us talk of other things the sorrow is mine and I would not force it upon others . 
I cared only to know that she is well , and , I hope , happy . 
It will never be given to me to make her or any other woman so . 
You could not well be blamed , said Joan de Tany , generously . 
Bertrade de Montfort is all and even more than you have said it be a benediction simply to have known her . 
Norman of Torn , in his ignorance of the ways of women , saw only friendship in the little acts of Joan de Tany . 
His life had been a hard and lonely one . 
The only ray of brilliant and warming sunshine that had entered it had been his love for Bertrade de Montfort and hers for him . 
She might have warned him had she known the truth , but instead she let things drift except for a single word of warning to Joan de Tany . 
Be careful of thy heart , Joan , she said , lest it be getting away from thee into the keeping of one who seems to love no less quickly than he forgets . 
The daughter of De Tany flushed . 
I am quite capable of safeguarding my own heart , Mary de Stutevill , she replied warmly . 
If thou covet this man thyself , why , but say so do not think though that because thy heart glows in his presence mine is equally susceptible . 
It was Mary's turn now to show offense , and a sharp retort was on her tongue when suddenly she realized the folly of such a useless quarrel . 
Instead she put her arms about Joan and kissed her . 
Let us forget that we have spoken on the subject . 
And in the midst of these alarms it entered the will ful head of Joan de Tany that she wished to ride to London town and visit the shops of the merchants . 
While London itself was solidly for the barons and against the King's party , the road between the castle of Richard de Tany and the city of London was beset with many dangers . 
Why , cried the girl's mother in exasperation , be tween robbers and royalists and the Outlaw of Torn you would not be safe if you had an army to escort you . 
But then , as I have no army , retorted the laughing girl , if you reason by your own logic , I shall be indeed quite safe . 
The letter contained this brief message The tall knight in gray with closed helm is Norman of Torn , and was unsigned . 
I asked not your mission , cried the fellow . 
I asked , who be ye ? Answer , and be quick about it . 
There be plenty of room and time for that even now , you dog of a French coward , cried the officer , couching his lance as he spoke . 
Wheeling their horses toward one another the two combatants , who were some ninety feet apart , charged at full tilt . 
Then , wheeling their horses and throwing away the butts of their now useless lances , De Conde and the officer advanced with drawn swords . 
Nearly all of the Baron's men were down , when one , an old servitor , spurred to the side of Joan de Tany and Mary de Stutevill . 
Come , my ladies , he cried , quick and you may escape . 
They be so busy with the battle that they will never notice . 
Take the Lady Mary , John , cried Joan , I brought Roger de Conde to this pass against the advice of all and I remain with him to the end . 
But , My Lady cried John . 
But nothing , sirrah ! she interrupted sharply . 
Do as you are bid . 
After her , John , commanded Joan peremptorily , and see that you turn not back until she be safe with in the castle walls then you may bring aid . 
With a cry Joan de Tany threw herself across the outlaw's body , shielding him as best she could from the threatening sword . 
He was John de Fulm , Earl of Buckingham , a for eigner by birth and for years one of the King's favorites the bitterest enemy of De Montfort and the barons . 
What now ? he cried . 
And who be the knight ? Look for yourself , My Lord Earl , replied the girl removing the helm , which she had been unlacing from the fallen man . 
But no , it cannot be , I did but yesterday leave Edward in Dover . 
I know not who he be , said Joan de Tany , ex cept that he be the most marvelous fighter and the bravest man it has ever been given me to see . 
He called himself Roger de Conde , but I know nothing of him other than that he looks like a prince , and fights like a devil . 
The girl's head went high as she looked the Earl full in the eye . 
Egad , he continued , methinks all would be fair in hell were they like unto you . 
It has been some years since I have seen you and I did not know the old fox Richard de Tany kept such a package as this hid in his grimy old castle . 
Then you refuse to release us ? said Joan de Tany . 
Let us not put it thus harshly , countered the Earl . 
If the man lives bring him also . 
I would learn more of this fellow who mas querades in the countenance of a crown prince . 
And turning , he spurred on towards the neighboring castle of a rebel baron which had been captured by the royalists , and was now used as headquarters by De Fulm . 
CHAPTER XIII WHEN Norman of Torn regained his senses he found himself in a small tower room in a strange castle . 
To his disappointment he found this locked from without , and in his weakened condition he made no attempt to force it . 
He was fully dressed and in armor , as he had been when struck down , but his helmet was gone , as were also his sword and dagger . 
The day was drawing to a close , and as dusk fell and the room darkened he became more and more impatient . 
Repeated pounding upon the door brought no response and finally he gave up in despair . 
He saw men at arms moving about , and once he thought he caught a glimpse of a woman's figure , but he was not sure . 
He wondered what had become of Joan de Tany and Mary de Stutevill . 
Such a look would nerve a jackal to attack a drove of lions , thought the outlaw . 
What a beautiful creature she was and she had stayed there with him during the fight . 
He remembered now Mary de Stutevill had not been with her as he had caught that glimpse of her , no , she had been all alone . 
What was that which clicked against his breastplate ? He felt , and found a metal bauble linked to a mesh of his steel armor by a strand of silken hair . 
Carefully he de tached the little thing , and , winding the filmy tress about it , placed it within the breast of his tunic . 
He was vaguely troubled by it , yet why he could scarcely have told , himself . 
From his apparel he was a man of position , and he was evidently in heated discussion with some one whom Norman of Torn could not see . 
As she turned to face her tormentor all the devil in the Devil of Torn surged in his aching head , for the face he saw was that of Joan de Tany . 
He was a man at arms , and at his side hung a sword . 
Presently the man at arms found what he sought , and , after tugging with ever diminishing strength , he felt the blade slip from its sheath . 
Snatching the sword from the body of his dead an tagonist , Norman of Torn rushed from the tower room . 
As John de Fulm , Earl of Buckingham , laid his vandal hands upon Joan de Tany she turned upon him like a tigress . 
It was upon this scene that the Outlaw of Torn burst with naked sword . 
There were no words , for there was no need of words here . 
The two men were upon each other , and fighting to the death , before the girl had regained her feet . 
It would have been short shrift for John de Fulm had not some of his men heard the fracas , and rushed to his aid . 
Norman of Torn stood with his back against a table in an angle of the room , and behind him stood Joan de Tany . 
Move toward the left , she whispered . 
I know this old pile . 
Do you understand ? He nodded . 
Slowly he worked his way toward the table , the men at arms in the meantime keeping up an infernal howl ing for help . 
The Earl was careful to keep out of reach of the point of De Conde's sword , and the men at arms were nothing loath to emulate their master's example . 
Just as he reached his goal a dozen more men burst into the room , and emboldened by this reinforcement one of the men engaging De Conde came too close . 
As darkness enveloped the chamber Joan de Tany led him through the little door , which he immediately closed and bolted as she had instructed . 
Here the girl felt with swift fingers the edge of the molding more and more rapidly she moved as the sound of hurrying footsteps resounded through the castle . 
What is wrong ? asked Norman of Torn , noticing her increasing perturbation . 
Mon Dieu ! she cried . 
Can I be wrong ! Surely this is the room . 
Do not worry about me , laughed the Devil of Torn . 
I could not take chances when thou wert at stake , Joan , he added more gravely . 
The sound of pursuit was now quite close , in fact the reflection from flickering torches could be seen in nearby chambers . 
At last the girl , with a little cry of stupid , seized De Conde and rushed him to the far side of the room . 
Here it is , she whispered joyously , here it has been all the time . 
Quickly the girl entered , pulling De Conde after her , and as the panel swung quietly into place the Earl of Buckingham with a dozen men entered the apart ment . 
The devil take them , cried De Fulm . 
Where can they have gone ? Surely we were right behind them . 
It is passing strange , My Lord , replied one of the men . 
Let us try the floor above , and the towers for of a surety they have not come this way . 
And the party retraced its steps , leaving the apartment empty . 
Behind the panel the girl stood shrinking close to De Conde , her hand still in his . 
Where now ? he asked . 
He felt her body tremble as it pressed against his . 
Presently she reached her hands up to his face , made brave to do it by the sheltering darkness . 
Roger , she whispered , her tongue halting over the familiar name . 
I thought that they had killed you , and all for me , for my foolish stubbornness . 
Canst forgive me ? Forgive ? he asked , smiling to himself . 
Forgive being given an opportunity to fight ? There be nothing to forgive , Joan , unless it be that I should ask forgive ness for protecting thee so poorly . 
Do not say that , she commanded . 
Never was such bravery or such swordsmanship in all the world before never such a man . 
His mind was a chaos of con flicting thoughts . 
He was puzzled , for he had not dreamed that friendship was so sweet . 
That she did not shrink from his encircling arms should have told him much , but Norman of Torn was slow to realize that a woman might look upon him with love . 
Nor had he a thought of any other sentiment toward her than that of friend and protector . 
That the responsibility for the critical stage their young acquaint ance had so quickly reached was not his had never for a moment entered his head . 
To him the fault was all his and perhaps it was this quality of chivalry that was the finest of the many noble characteristics of his sterling character . 
Joan de Tany drew slowly away from him , and with out reply took his hand and led him forward through a dark , cold corridor . 
We must go carefully now , she said at last , for there be stairs near . 
Norman of Torn wondered if she were angry with him and then , being new at love , he blundered . 
Joan de Tany , he said . 
Yes , Roger de Conde what would you ? You be silent , and I fear that you be angry with me . 
Tell me that you forgive what I have done , an it offended you . 
I have so few friends , he added sadly , that I cannot afford to lose such as you . 
You will never lose the friendship of Joan de Tany , she answered . 
You have won her respect and and But she could not say it and so she trailed off lamely and undying gratitude . 
But Norman of Torn knew the word that she would have spoken had he dared to let her . 
Presently they reached the bottom of the stairway , and Joan de Tany led him , gropingly , across what seemed , from their echoing footsteps , a large chamber . 
The air was chill and dank , smelling of mold , and no ray of light penetrated this subterranean vault , and no sound broke the stillness . 
There is nothing to fear , Joan , reassured Norman of Torn . 
Dead men wield not swords , nor do they move , or moan . 
The wind , I think , and rats are our only companions here . 
I am afraid , she whispered . 
If you can make a light I am sure you will find an old lamp here in the crypt , and then will it be less fearsome . 
As a child I visited this castle often , and in search of adventure we passed through these corridors an hundred times , but always by day and with lights . 
Norman of Torn did as she bid , and finding the lamp , lighted it . 
The chamber was quite empty save for the coffins in their niches , and some effigies in marble set at intervals about the walls . 
Not such a fearsome place after all , he said , laugh ing lightly . 
No place would seem fearsome now , she answered simply , were there a light to show me that the brave face of Roger de Conde were by my side . 
Hush , child , replied the outlaw . 
You know not what you say . 
When you know me better you will be sorry for your words , for Roger de Conde is not what you think him . 
So say no more of praise until we be out of this hole , and you safe in your father's halls . 
With the aid of the lamp they made more rapid progress , and in a few moments reached a low door at the end of the arched passageway . 
This is the doorway which opens upon the ravine below the castle . 
We have passed beneath the walls and the moat . 
The girl stumbled after him and twice fell before they had taken a score of steps . 
I fear I am not strong enough , she said finally . 
The way is much more difficult than I had thought . 
So Norman of Torn lifted her in his strong arms , and stumbled on through the darkness and the shrub bery down the center of the ravine . 
It required the better part of an hour to traverse the little distance to the roadway and all the time her head nestled upon his shoulder and her hair brushed his cheek . 
Once when she lifted her head to speak to him he bent toward her , and in the darkness , by chance , his lips brushed hers . 
He felt her little form tremble in his arms , and a faint sigh breathed from her lips . 
They were upon the highroad now , but he did not put her down . 
A mist was before his eyes , and he could have crushed her to him and smothered those warm lips with his own . 
Her face was averted and her arms were out stretched toward the dangling form that swung and twisted from the grim , gaunt arm . 
Her figure was racked with choking sobs of horror stricken grief . 
Slowly his arms relaxed , and gently and reverently he lowered Joan de Tany to the ground . 
In that in stant Norman of Torn had learned the difference be tween friendship and love , and love and passion . 
The moon was shining brightly upon them , and the girl turned , wide eyed and wondering , toward him . 
Joan , he said , I would but now have wronged thee . 
He had not the heart to tell her that he loved only Bertrade de Montfort , but it had been a thousand times better had he done so . 
She was about to reply when a dozen armed men sprang from the surrounding shadows , calling upon them to surrender . 
The moonlight falling upon the leader revealed a great giant of a fellow with an enor mous , bristling mustache it was Shandy . 
Norman of Torn lowered his raised sword . 
It is I , Shandy , he said . 
Keep a still tongue in thy head until I speak with thee apart . 
Wait here , My Lady Joan these be friends . 
Drawing Shandy to one side he learned that the faithful fellow had become alarmed at his chief's con tinued absence , and had set out with a small party to search for him . 
They had come upon the riderless Sir Mortimer grazing by the roadside , and a short distance beyond had discovered evidences of the conflict at the cross roads . 
There they had found Norman of Torn's helmet , confirming their worst fears . 
A peasant in a nearby hut had told them of the encounter , and had set them upon the road taken by the Earl and his prison ers . 
And here we be , My Lord , concluded the great fellow . 
How many are you ? asked the outlaw . 
Fifty , all told , with those who lie farther back in the bushes . 
Give us horses , and let two of the men ride behind us , said the chief . 
And , Shandy , let not the lady know that she rides this night with the Outlaw of Torn . 
They were soon mounted , and clattering down the road , back toward the castle of Richard de Tany . 
Joan de Tany looked in silent wonder upon this grim force that sprang out of the shadows of the night to do the bidding of Roger de Conde , a gentleman of France . 
There was something familiar in the great bulk of Red Shandy where had she seen that mighty frame before ? And now she looked closely at the figure of Roger de Conde . 
Yes , somewhere else had she seen these two men together but where and when ? And then the strangeness of another incident came to her mind . 
Roger de Conde spoke no English , and yet she had plainly heard English words upon this man's lips as he addressed the red giant . 
Shortly before daylight they reached the castle of Richard de Tany , and a great shout went up from the watch as Norman of Torn cried Open ! Open for My Lady Joan . 
Together they rode into the courtyard , where all was bustle and excitement . 
A dozen voices asked a dozen questions only to cry out still others without waiting for replies . 
Richard de Tany with his family and Mary de Stute vill were still fully clothed , having not lain down during the whole night . 
They fairly fell upon Joan and Roger de Conde in their joyous welcome and relief . 
Come , come , said the Baron , let us go within . 
You must be fair famished for good food and drink . 
I will ride , My Lord , replied Norman of Torn . 
I have a little matter of business with my friend the Earl of Buckingham . 
Business which I fear will not wait . 
Joan de Tany looked on in silence . 
Nor did she urge him to remain , as he raised her hand to his lips in farewell . 
Under cover of the tangled shrubbery they crawled unseen to the little door through which Joan de Tany had led him the night before . 
Following the corridors and vaults beneath the castle they came to the stone stairway , and mounted to the passage which led to the false panel that had given the two fugitives egress . 
Slipping the spring lock , Norman of Torn entered the apartment followed closely by his henchmen . 
On they went , through apartment after apartment , but no sign of the Earl or his servitors rewarded their search , and it was soon apparent that the castle was deserted . 
As they came forth into the courtyard they descried an old man basking in the sun , upon a bench . 
When Norman of Torn questioned him he learned that De Fulm had ridden out early in the day bound for Dover , where Prince Edward then was . 
The fellow who gave this information was a servant in my lady's household who held a grudge against his mistress for some wrong she had done him . 
When , therefore , he found that these grim men were searching for De Fulm he saw a way to be revenged upon his mistress . 
How many swords be there at the castle ? asked Norman of Torn . 
Bring ten men , beside yourself , Shandy , commanded Norman of Torn . 
We shall pay a little visit upon our amorous friend , My Lord , the Earl of Bucking ham . 
Half an hour's ride brought them within sight of the castle . 
Dismounting , and leaving their horses with one of the men , Norman of Torn advanced on foot with Shandy and the eight others , close in the wake of the traitorous servant . 
So saying Norman of Torn crept boldly across the improvised bridge , and disappeared within the window beyond . 
One by one the band of cut throats passed through the little window , until all stood within the castle beside their chief Shandy coming last with the servant . 
Lead me quietly , knave , to the room where My Lord sups , said Norman of Torn . 
You , Shandy , place your men where they can prevent my being inter rupted . 
A moment later My Lady of Leybourn looked up from her plate upon the grim figure of an armored knight standing in the doorway of the great dining hall . 
My Lord Earl ! she cried . 
The grim figure raised a restraining hand , as the Earl drew his sword . 
A moment , My Lord , said a low voice in perfect French . 
Who are you ? cried the lady . 
I be an old friend of My Lord , here but let me tell you a little story . 
And in that castle also was a despised and hunted outlaw , with a price upon his head , for whose neck the hempen noose has been yawning these many years . 
And it was this vile person who came in time to save the young woman from the noble flower of knighthood that would have ruined her young life . 
Outlaw or Devil , said a stern voice behind them , Roger Leybourn owes you his friendship for saving the honor of his home . 
Both turned to discover a mail clad figure standing in the doorway where Norman of Torn had first appeared . 
Roger ! shrieked Claudia Leybourn , and swooned . 
Who be you ? continued the master of Leybourn addressing the outlaw . 
For answer Norman of Torn pointed to the forehead of the dead Earl of Buckingham , and there Roger Leybourn saw , in letters of blood , NT . 
The Baron advanced with outstretched hand . 
The outlaw pretended that he did not see the hand . 
You owe me nothing , Sir Roger , that may not be paid by a good supper I have eaten but once in forty eight hours . 
The outlaw now called to Shandy and his men , telling them to remain on watch , but to interfere with no one within the castle . 
It was he who had followed across the ladder after Shandy . 
The outlaw spent the night at the castle of Roger Leybourn for the first time within his memory a wel comed guest under his true name at the house of a gentleman . 
The following morning he bade his host goodbye , and returning to his camp started on his homeward march toward Torn . 
Some of the crowd were armed , and from very force of numbers were waxing brave to lay violent hands upon the party . 
Mud and rocks and rotten vegetables were being hurled at the little cavalcade , many of them barely missing the women of the party . 
And then , without a backward glance at the party he had rescued , he continued on his march toward the north . 
The little party sat upon their horses looking in won der after the retreating figures of their deliverers . 
Then one of the ladies turned to a knight at her side with a word of command and an imperious gesture toward the fast disappearing company . 
He thus addressed put spurs to his horse , and rode at a rapid gallop after the outlaw's troop . 
In a few moments he had overtaken them and reined up beside Norman of Torn . 
Hold , Sir Knight , cried the gentleman , the Queen would thank you in person for your brave defence of her . 
Ever keen to see the humor of a situation , Norman of Torn wheeled his horse and rode back with the Queen's messenger . 
As he faced Her Majesty the Outlaw of Torn bent low over his pommel . 
I drew in the service of a woman , Your Majesty , not in the service of a queen . 
What now ! Wouldst even belittle the act which we all witnessed ? The King , my husband , shall reward thee , Sir Knight , if you but tell me your name . 
If I told my name methinks the King would be more apt to hang me , laughed the outlaw . 
I be Nor man of Torn . 
The entire party looked with startled astonishment upon him , for none of them had ever seen this bold raider whom all the nobility and gentry of England feared and hated . 
For lesser acts than that which thou hast just per formed , the King has pardoned men before , replied Her Majesty . 
But raise your visor , I would look upon the face of so notorious a criminal who can yet be a gentle man and a loyal protector of his queen . 
Without another word he wheeled and galloped back to his little army . 
The puppy , the insolent puppy , cried Eleanor of England , in a rage . 
And so the Outlaw of Torn and his mother met and parted after a period of twenty years . 
Two days later Norman of Torn directed Red Shan dy to lead the forces of Torn from their Essex camp back to Derby . 
The outlaw was speaking to his captains in council at his side the old man of Torn . 
Ride by easy stages , Shandy , and I will overtake you by tomorrow morning . 
I but ride for a moment to the castle of De Tany on an errand , and as I shall stop there but a few moments I shall surely join you to morrow . 
I shall give them plenty of room , replied Norman of Torn . 
My neck itcheth not to be stretched , and he laughed and mounted . 
Five minutes after he had cantered down the road from camp , Spizo the Spaniard , sneaking his horse un seen into the surrounding forest , mounted and spurred rapidly after him . 
The camp , in the throes of packing refractory , half broken sumpter animals , and saddling their own wild mounts , did not notice his departure . 
Only the little grim , gray , old man knew that he had gone , or why , or whither . 
The officer tore open the seal as the messenger turned and spurred back in the direction from which he had come . 
And this was what he read Norman of Torn is now at the castle of Tany , with out escort . 
All unconscious of the rapidly approaching foes Nor man of Torn waited composedly in the anteroom for Joan de Tany . 
She let him take her fingers in his and raise them to his lips , and then they stood looking into each other's eyes in silence for a long moment . 
I do not know how to tell you what I have come to tell , he said sadly . 
I have not meant to deceive you to your harm , but the temptation to be with you and those whom you typify must be my excuse . 
I have guessed what you would tell me , Nor man of Torn . 
'The spell of moonlight and adventure is no longer upon us' those are your own words , and still I am glad to call you friend . 
The little emphasis she put upon the last word be spoke the finality of her decision that the Outlaw of Torn could be no more than friend to her . 
It is best , he replied , relieved that , as he thought , she felt no love for him now that she knew him for what he really was . 
I thank you that you have not been angry with me . 
Remember me only to think that in the hills of Derby a sword is at your service , without reward and without price . 
Should you ever need it , Joan , tell me that you will send for me wilt promise me that , Joan ? I promise , Norman of Torn . 
Farewell , he said , and as he again kissed her hand he bent his knee to the ground in reverence . 
Then he rose to go , pressing a little packet into her palm . 
Their eyes met , and the man saw in that brief instant deep in the azure depths of the girl's that which tumbled the structure of his new found complacency about his ears . 
As he rode out into the bright sunlight upon the road which led northwest toward Derby , Norman of Torn bowed his head in sorrow , for he realized two things . 
He felt himself a beast that he had allowed his lone liness and the aching sorrow of his starved , empty heart to lead him into this girl's life . 
The King's banner waved above their heads , and in tuitively Joan de Tany knew for whom they sought at her father's castle . 
Quickly she hastened to the outer barbican that it might be she who answered their hail rather than one of the men at arms on watch there . 
She had scarcely reached the ramparts of the outer gate ere the King's men drew rein before the castle . 
In reply to their hail Joan de Tany asked their mis sion . 
We seek the outlaw , Norman of Torn , who hides now within this castle , replied the officer . 
There be no outlaw here , replied the girl , but , if you wish , you may enter with half a dozen men and search the castle . 
Which way rode he ? cried the officer . 
Straight toward the west by the middle road , lied Joan de Tany . 
Then she opened the packet which Norman of Torn had handed her , and within found two others . 
She was indeed but a little girl chained by the inex orable bonds of caste to a false ideal . 
Birth and station spelled honor to her , and honor , to the daughter of an English noble , was a mightier force even than love . 
That Norman of Torn was an outlaw she might have forgiven , but that he was , according to report , a low fellow of no birth placed an impassable barrier between them . 
For hours the girl lay sobbing upon the bench , whilst within her raged the mighty battle of the heart against the head . 
Thus her mother found her , and kneeling beside her , and with her arms about the girl's neck , tried to soothe her and to learn the cause of her sorrow . 
Finally it came , poured from the flood gates of a sorrowing heart that wave of bitter misery and hopelessness which not even a mother's love could check . 
Joan , my dear daughter , cried Lady de Tany , I sorrow with thee that thy love has been cast upon so bleak and impossible a shore . 
Oh , mother , but I love him so , moaned the girl . 
Mother , thou canst not know the honor , and the bravery , and the chivalry of the man as I do . 
Not since Arthur of Silures kept his round table hath ridden forth upon English soil so true a knight as Nor man of Torn . 
But his birth , my daughter ! argued the Lady de Tany . 
Ah , but this was the mighty argument ! Naught could the girl say to justify so heinous a crime as low birth . 
And so the cruel hand of a mighty revenge had reached out to crush another innocent victim . 
Silently they had come in the night preceding the fun eral , and as silently they slipped away northward into the falling shadows of the following night . 
As the horde of Torn approached their Derby strong hold their young leader turned the command over to Red Shandy and dismounted at the door of Father Claude's cottage . 
I am tired , Father , said the outlaw as he threw himself upon his accustomed bench . 
Naught but sor row and death follow in my footsteps . 
I and all my acts be accurst , and upon those I love the blight fall eth . 
Alter thy ways , my son follow my advice ere it be too late . 
Seek out a new and better life in another country and carve thy future into the semblance of glory and honor . 
Would that I might , my friend , answered Norman of Torn . 
And Horsan the Dane , Father . 
As Norman of Torn ceased speaking the priest sat silent for many minutes . 
Thou hast indeed a grave responsibility , my son , he said at last . 
When one would shirk a responsibility , or explain an error , lo , one shoulders it upon the Lord . 
I fear , my son , said the priest , that what seed of reverence I have attempted to plant within thy breast hath borne poor fruit . 
I may be wrong , for I am ill versed in religious matters , but my conception of God and scapegoat be not that they are synonymous . 
I may offend , but thou know I do not mean to . 
Why ? I ask because I have written to Simon de Montfort asking him to meet me and two others here upon an important matter . 
I have learned that he expects to be at his Leicester castle , for a few days , within the week . 
As you say , Father , replied Norman of Torn . 
I do not make head nor tail of thy wondrous intrigues , but that thou wish it done thus or so is sufficient . 
I must be off to Torn now , so I bid thee farewell . 
Often on these evenings the company was enter tained by stories from the wild , roving lives of its own members . 
Therefore if thou wilst find it convenient we shall visit thee , good father , on the fifth day from today . 
The fellow could not read , but he to whom he took the missive could , laboriously , decipher the Latin in which it was penned . 
The old man of Torn fairly trembled with suppressed rage as the full purport of this letter flashed upon him . 
On the fifth day , he repeated . 
That is the day on which we were to ride south again . 
Well , we shall ride , and Simon de Montfort shall not talk with thee , thou fool priest . 
The outlaw presently entered in full armor , with visor lowered . 
The bearing of the King's officer was haughty and arrogant , as became a man of birth when dealing with a low born knave . 
His Majesty has deigned to address you , sirrah , he said , withdrawing a parchment from his breast . 
And as you doubtless cannot read I will read the King's commands to you . 
I can read , replied Norman of Torn , whatever the King can write . 
Unless it be , he added , that the King writes no better than he rules . 
The messenger scowled angrily , crying It ill becomes such a low fellow to speak thus disrespectfully of our gracious King . 
If he were less generous he would have sent you a halter rather than this message which I bear . 
A bridle for thy tongue , my friend , replied Nor man of Torn , were in better taste than a halter for my neck . 
But come , let us see what the King writes to his friend , the Outlaw of Torn . 
Witnessed myself , at Lewes , on May the third , in the forty eighth year of our reign . 
And crumpling the parchment in his hand , he advanced toward the royal emissary . 
It was a crestfallen gentleman who rode forth from the castle of Torn a half hour later and spurred rapidly his head a more civil tongue . 
Norman of Torn had determined that he would see Bertrade de Montfort once again , and clear his conscience by a frank avowal of his identity . 
He knew what the result must be his experience with Joan de Tany had taught him that . 
It was a bitter thing to contemplate , for not alone would the mighty pride of the man be lacerated , but a great love . 
On the evening of the day preceding that set for the march south , a little , wiry figure , grim and gray , en tered the cottage of Father Claude . 
The castle of Torn was filled with the rush and rattle of preparation early the following morning , for by eight o'clock the column was to march . 
The court yard was filled with hurrying squires and lackeys . 
There was squealing , biting , kicking , and cursing as animals fouled one another with their loads , or brushed against some tethered war horse . 
Finally the captains came , armored cap a pie , and with them some semblance of order and quiet out of chaos and bedlam . 
First the sumpter beasts , all loaded now , were driven , with a strong escort , to the downs below the castle and there held to await the column . 
Then , one by one , the companies were formed and marched out beneath fluttering pennon and waving banner to the martial strains of bugle and trumpet . 
Last of all came the catapults , those great engines of destruction which hurled two hundred pound bowlders with mighty force against the walls of beleaguered castles . 
The old man eyed his companion narrowly through the eye slit in his helm . 
'Tis passing strange , said Norman of Torn but that was his only comment . 
As their hails were unanswered one of the party dismounted to enter the building . 
Have a care , My Lord , cried his companion . 
This be over close to the Castle Torn and there may easily be more treachery than truth in the message which called thee thither . 
Fear not , replied Simon de Montfort , the Devil of Torn hath no quarrel with me . 
Striding up the little path he knocked loudly on the door . 
Receiving no reply he pushed it open and stepped into the dim light of the interior . 
There he found his host , the good father Claude , stretched upon his back on the floor , the breast of his priestly robes dark with dried and clotted blood . 
Turning again to the door , De Montfort summoned a couple of his companions . 
The secret of the little lost prince of England be a dangerous burden for a man to carry , he said . 
But this convinces me more than any words the priest might have uttered that the abductor be still in Eng land , and possibly Prince Richard also . 
A search of the cottage revealed the fact that it had been ransacked thoroughly by the assassin . 
The con tents of drawer and box littered every room , though that the object was not rich plunder was evidenced by many pieces of jewelry and money which remained untouched . 
The true object lies here , said De Montfort , point ing to the open hearth upon which lay the charred re mains of many papers and documents . 
He who bareth this letter I truly , believe to be the lost Prince Richard . 
Mon Dieu ! The damnable luck ! cried De Mont fort , but a second more and the name we have sought for twenty years would have been writ . 
There be naught more we can do here , he con tinued . 
I should have been on my way to Fletching hours since . 
Come , my gentlemen , we will ride south by way of Leicester and have the good Fathers there look to the decent burial of this holy man . 
The party mounted and rode rapidly away . 
Noon found them at Leicester , and three days later they rode into the baronial camp at Fletching . 
And thus another innocent victim of an insatiable hate and vengeance which bad been born in the King's armory twenty years before passed from the eyes of men . 
From here they ascended the great ridge of the hills up the valley Combe , the projecting shoulder of the Downs covering their march from the town . 
This party had scarcely left the city behind them ere they fell into the hands of the baronial troops . 
Though some few were killed or captured those who escaped were sufficient to arouse the sleeping army of the royalists to the close proximity and gravity of their danger . 
By this time the four divisions of De Montfort's army were in full view of the town . 
The reserves were under Simon de Montfort him self . 
So vicious was his onslaught that the poorly armed and unprotected burghers , unused to the stern game of war , fell like sheep before the iron men on their iron shod horses . 
The central divisions of the two armies seemed well matched also , and thus the battle continued through out the day , the greatest advantage appearing to lie with the King's troops . 
The wily Simon de Montfort had attempted a little ruse which centered the fighting for a time upon the crest of one of the hills . 
Both De Montfort and the King had thrown them selves into the melee with all their reserves no longer was there semblance of organization . 
Division was in extricably bemingled with division friend and foe formed a jumbled confusion of fighting , cursing chaos , over which whipped the angry pennons and banners of England's noblest houses . 
Both De Montfort and the King ceased fighting as they gazed upon this body of fresh , well armored , well mounted reinforcements . 
For De Montfort ! For De Montfort ! and Down with Henry ! rang loud and clear above the din of battle . 
Instantly the tide turned , and it was by only the bar est chance that the King himself escaped capture , and regained the temporary safety of Lewes . 
The King of the Romans took refuge within an old mill , and here it was that Norman of Torn found him barricaded . 
You have fought well this day , Norman of Torn , replied De Montfort . 
Verily do I believe we owe our victory to you alone so do not mar the record of a noble deed by wanton acts of atrocity . 
It is but what they had done to me , were I the prisoner instead , retorted the outlaw . 
And Simon de Montfort could not answer that , for it was but the simple truth . 
I have been taught since birth to hate you all , but why I should hate was never told me . 
Possibly it be but a bad habit that will yield to my maturer years . 
As for why I fought as I did today , he continued , it be because the heart of Lady Bertrade your daughter be upon your side . 
Had it been with the King , her uncle , Norman of Torn had fought otherwise than he has this day . 
So you see , My Lord Earl , you owe me no gratitude . 
Tomorrow I may be pillaging your friends as of yore . 
Simon de Montfort turned to look at him , but the blank wall of his lowered visor gave no sign of the thoughts that passed beneath . 
You do much for a mere friendship , Norman of Torn , said the Earl coldly , and I doubt me not but that my daughter has already forgot you . 
An English noble woman , preparing to become a princess of France , does not have much thought to waste upon highway men . 
They marched until late the following evening , pass ing some twenty miles out of their way to visit a cer tain royalist stronghold . 
The troops stationed there had fled , having been appraised some few hours earlier , by fugitives , of the defeat of Henry's army at Lewes . 
Norman of Torn searched the castle for the one he sought , but , finding it entirely deserted , continued his eastward march . 
Again he was forced to change the direction of his march , this time heading northward into Kent . 
It was dark before he reached his destination , and saw before him the familiar outlines of the castle of Roger de Ley bourn . 
This time the outlaw threw his fierce horde completely around the embattled pile , before he ad vanced with a score of sturdy ruffians to reconnoiter . 
The hall was filled with knights and gentlewomen and house servants and men at arms . 
Hold ! he cried , and , turning directly to Roger de Leybourn , I have no quarrel with thee , My Lord but again I come for a guest within thy halls . 
Methinks thou hast as bad taste in whom thou entertains as didst thy fair lady . 
Who be ye , that thus rudely breaks in upon the peace of my castle , and makes bold to insult my guests ? demanded Roger de Leybourn . 
All eyes turned in the direction that the rigid finger of the outlaw indicated , and there indeed was a fear ful apparition of a man . 
If you recognize me not , Sir Roger , said Norman of Torn , drily , it is evident that your honored guest hath a better memory . 
Oh , save me , save me ! for he has come to kill me , he ended in a pitiful wail . 
The Devil of Torn ! How that name froze the hearts of the assembled guests . 
The Devil of Torn ! Slowly the men standing there at the board of Sir Roger de Leybourn grasped the full purport of that awful name . 
Tense silence for a moment held the room in the stillness of a sepulchre , and then a woman shrieked , and fell prone across the table . 
She had seen the mark of the Devil of Torn upon the dead brow of her mate . 
But a moment since you said that you had no quarrel with me . 
And when I go I take part of him with me . 
I would gladly go to hell after Peter of Colfax , replied the outlaw . 
What my grievance be matters not . 
Norman of Torn acts first and explains afterward , if he cares to explain at all . 
Give him a great draught of brandy , said the out law , or he will sink down and choke in the froth of his own terror . 
The guests were craning their necks to follow every detail of the fascinating drama that was being enacted before them . 
God , what a swordsman ! muttered one . 
Never was such sword play seen since the day the first sword was drawn from the first scabbard ! replied Roger de Leybourn . 
And Peter of Colfax , cornered and fighting for his life , was no marrowless antagonist , even against the Devil of Torn . 
Furiously he fought in the extremity of his fear rushing upon his executioner with frenzied agony . 
Great beads of cold sweat stood upon his livid brow . 
Now , shrieking and gibbering through his frothy lips , his yellow fangs bared in a mad and horrid grin , he rushed full upon Norman of Torn . 
A little shudder passed through the wide eyed guests . 
I would borrow yon golden platter , My Lord . 
It shall be returned , or a mightier one in its stead . 
Leybourn nodded his assent , and Norman of Torn turned , with a few words of instructions , to one of his men . 
The fellow gathered up the head of Peter of Col fax , and placed it upon the golden platter . 
I thank you , Sir Roger , for your hospitality , said Norman of Torn , with a low bow which included the spellbound guests . 
Thus followed by his men , one bearing the head of Peter of Colfax upon the platter of gold , Norman of Torn passed quietly from the hall and from the castle . 
Beside him on the march rode the fierce red giant , Shandy , and the wiry , gray little man of Torn , whom the outlaw called father . 
In no way , save the gray hair and the parchment surfaced skin , had the old fellow changed in all these years . 
Without bodily vices , and clinging ever to the open air and the exercise of the foil he was still young in muscle and endurance . 
Always taciturn , the old fellow rode in his usual silence . 
Long since had Norman of Torn usurped by the force of his strong character and masterful ways , the position of authority in the castle of Torn . 
Cold and hard , he looked with no love upon the man he still called my son . 
If he held any sentiment toward Norman of Torn it was one of pride which began and ended in the almost fiendish skill of his pupil's mighty sword arm . 
The little army had been marching for some hours when the advance guard halted a party bound south upon a crossroad . 
There were some twenty or thirty men , mostly servants , and a half dozen richly garbed knights . 
Yes , but who be you ? And be you riding to meet my Lady Bertrade de Montfort ? continued the outlaw , ignoring the Prince's question . 
Yes , an it be any of your affair , replied Philip curtly . 
Therefore will the friend of Lady Bertrade de Montfort ride with Monsieur le Prince to his destination that Monsieur may arrive there safe ly . 
It is kind of you , Sir Knight , a kindness that I will not forget . 
But , again , who is it that shows this solici tude for Philip of France ? Norman of Torn , they call me , replied the outlaw . 
The great and bloody out law ? Upon his handsome face there was no look of fear or repugnance . 
I am freer than the King , My Lord , for the King be a prisoner today . 
Together they rode toward Battel , and as they talked , Norman of Torn grew to like this brave and handsome gentleman . 
In his heart was no rancor because of the coming marriage of the man to the woman he loved . 
If Bertrade de Montfort loved this handsome French prince , then Norman of Torn was his friend for his love was a great love , above jealousy . 
It not only held her happiness above his own , but the happiness and welfare of the man she loved , as well . 
Certainly , my friend , replied Philip . 
The outlaw , dismounting , called upon one of his squires for parch ment , and , by the light of a torch , wrote a message to Bertrade de Montfort . 
Half an hour later a servant in the castle of Battel handed the missive to the daughter of Leicester as she sat alone in her apartment . 
Opening it , she read To Lady Bertrade de Montfort , from her friend Norman of Torn . 
Two years have passed since you took the hand of the Outlaw of Torn in friendship , and now he comes to sue for another favor . 
It is that he may have speech with you , alone , in the castle of Battel this night . 
My camp lies without the city's gates , and your mes senger will have safe conduct whatever reply he bears to , Norman of Torn . 
And then she recalled his little acts of thought ful chivalry , nay , almost tenderness , on the long night ride to Leicester . 
The Devil of Torn ? asked Henry , incredulously . 
Some one be hoaxing you . 
They be camped not far without the city now . 
I owe him nothing , returned the Earl haughtily , by his own word . 
You owe him victory at Lewes , snapped the King . 
Neither did I know , until I heard his battle cry , whether he would fall upon baron or royalist . 
If that be the truth , Leicester , said the King , with a note of skepticism which he made studiously apparent , hang the dog . 
He be just without the city even now . 
You be King of England , My Lord Henry . 
If you say that he shall be hanged , hanged he shall be , re plied De Montfort . 
A dozen courts have already passed sentence upon him , it only remains to catch him , Leicester , said the King . 
A party shall sally forth at dawn to do the work , replied De Montfort . 
And not , thought Philip of France , if I know it , shall the brave Outlaw of Torn be hanged tomorrow . 
In his camp without the city of Battel , Norman of Torn paced back and forth waiting an answer to his message . 
Norman of Torn loved to fight , but he was no fool , and so he did not relish pitting his thousand upon an open plain against twenty thousand within a walled fortress . 
No , he would see Bertrade de Montfort that night and before dawn his rough band would be far on the road toward Torn . 
The risk was great to enter the castle , filled as it was with his mighty enemies . 
Directly he heard a low challenge from one of his sentries , who presently appeared escorting a lackey . 
A messenger from Lady Bertrade de Montfort , said the soldier . 
Bring him hither , commanded the outlaw . 
The lackey approached and handed Norman of Torn a dainty parchment sealed with scented wax wafers . 
Did My Lady say you were to wait for an answer ? asked the outlaw . 
Norman of Torn turned to a flickering torch and , breaking the seals , read the message from the woman he loved . 
It was short and simple . 
To Norman of Torn , from his friend always , Bertrade de Montfort . 
He has my instructions to lead thee secretly to where I be . 
Norman of Torn turned to where one of his captains squatted upon the ground beside an object covered with a cloth . 
Come , Flory , he said , and then , turning to the waiting Giles , lead on . 
They fell in single file first the lackey , Giles , then Norman of Torn and last the fellow whom he had addressed as Flory bearing the object covered with a cloth . 
But it was not Flory who brought up the rear . 
But none might know the difference , for the little man wore the armor of Flory , and his visor was drawn . 
And so they came to a small gate which let into the castle wall where the shadow of a great tower made the blackness of a black night doubly black . 
Through many dim corridors the lackey led them , and up wind ing stairways until presently he stopped before a low door . 
Here , he said , My Lord , and turning left them . 
Norman of Torn touched the panel with the mailed knuckles of his right hand , and a low voice from within whispered , Enter . 
Silently he strode into the apartment , a small ante chamber off a large hall . 
At one end was an open hearth upon which logs were burning brightly , while a single lamp aided in diffusing a soft glow about the austere chamber . 
In the center of the room was a table , and at the sides several benches . 
Before the fire stood Bertrade de Montfort , and she was alone . 
Place your burden upon this table , Flory , said Nor man of Torn . 
And when it had been done You may go . 
My Lady Bertrade , he said at last , I have come to fulfill a promise . 
He spoke in French , and she started slightly at his voice . 
Before , Norman of Torn had always spoken in English . 
Where had she heard that voice ! There were tones in it that haunted her . 
What promise did Norman of Torn e'er make to Bertrade de Montfort ? she asked . 
I do not understand you , my friend . 
And as she approached the table he withdrew the cloth which covered the object that the man had placed there . 
The girl started back with a little cry of terror , for there upon a golden platter was a man's head horrid with the grin of death baring yellow fangs . 
Dost recognize the thing ? asked the outlaw . 
And then she did but still she could not comprehend . 
Your visor , she whispered , raise your visor . 
And then , as though to herself It cannot be it cannot be . 
Norman of Torn , though it tore the heart from him , did as she bid , and there before her she saw the brave strong face of Roger de Conde . 
Mon Dieu ! she cried , Tell me it is but a cruel joke . 
It be the cruel truth , My Lady Bertrade , said Nor man of Torn sadly . 
It is because I love you , Bertrade , that I have come this night . 
I make no excuse for my weakness . 
I ask no for giveness for what I know you never can forgive . 
That , when you think of me , it will always be with loathing and contempt is the best that I can hope . 
I only know that I love you , Bertrade I only know that I love you , and with a love that surpasseth even my own understanding . 
Here is the ring that you gave in token of friendship . 
The hand that wore it has done no wrong by the light that has been given it as guide . 
Kneeling he raised the hem of her garment to his lips . 
A thousand conflicting emotions surged through the heart of this proud daughter of the new conqueror of England . 
And these two fought out their battle in the girl's breast . 
Slowly she turned toward him who knelt with bowed head at her feet , and , taking the hand that held the ring outstretched toward her , raised him to his feet . 
In silence she replaced the golden band upon his finger , and then she lifted her eyes to his . 
Keep the ring , Norman of Torn , she said . 
The friendship of Bertrade de Montfort is not lightly given nor lightly taken away , she hesitated , nor is her love . 
What do you mean ? he whispered . 
For in her eyes was that wondrous light he had seen there on that other day in the far castle of Leicester . 
Were thou born out of wedlock , the son of a hostler and a scullery maid , still would I love thee , and honor thee , and cleave to thee . 
Where thou be , Norman of Torn , there shall be happiness for me . 
Thy friends shall be my friends thy joys shall be my joys thy sorrows , my sorrows and thy enemies , even mine own father , shall be my enemies . 
Why it is , my Norman , I know not . 
Sh ! she whispered , suddenly , methinks I hear foot steps . 
They must not find thee here , Norman of Torn , for the King has only this night wrung a promise from my father to take thee in the morning and hang thee . 
Thou ridest north tonight with Nor man of Torn , and by the third day Father Claude shall make us one . 
I am glad thee wish it , she replied . 
I feared that , for some reason , thee might not think it best for me to go with thee now . 
Wait here , I will be gone but a moment . 
Norman of Torn made a wry face , for he had no stomach for hiding himself away from danger . 
For my sake , she pleaded . 
So he promised to do as she bid , and she ran swiftly from the room to fetch her belongings . 
As he heard the proud daughter of Simon de Mont fort declare her love for the Devil of Torn a cruel smile curled his lip . 
It will be better than I had hoped , he muttered , and easier . 
'S blood ! How much easier now that Lei cester too may have his whole proud heart in the hang ing of Norman of Torn . 
What now ! What now ! ejaculated Henry . 
What madman be this ? I be no madman , Your Majesty never did brain work more clearly or to more certain ends , replied the man . 
It may doubtless be some ruse of the cut throat himself , cried De Montfort . 
Where be the knave ? asked Henry . 
He stands now within this palace and in his arms be Bertrade , daughter of My Lord Earl of Leicester . 
Even now she did but tell him that she loved him . 
Hold , cried De Montfort . 
Hold fast thy foul tongue . 
What meanest thou by uttering such lies , and to my very face ? They be no lies , Simon de Montfort . 
An I tell thee that Roger de Conde and Norman of Torn be one and the same thou wilt know that I speak no lie . 
Where be the craven wretch ? he demanded . 
Come , said the little , old man . 
And turning he led from the hall , closely followed by De Montfort , the King , Prince Philip and the others . 
Thou hadst better bring twenty fighting men thou'lt need them all to take Norman of Torn , he advised De Montfort . 
And so as they passed the guard room the party was increased by twenty men at arms . 
Scarcely had Bertrade de Montfort left him ere Nor man of Torn heard the tramping of many feet . 
They seemed approaching up the dim corridor that led to the little door of the apartment where he stood . 
Quickly he moved to the opposite door , and , stand ing with his hand upon the latch , waited . 
There was no hiding now , and no escape for run he would not , even had there been where to run . 
With an army at their call it were an easy thing to take a lone man , even though that man were the Devil of Torn . 
The King and De Montfort had now crossed the smaller apartment and were within the room where the outlaw stood at bay . 
At the far side the group of royal and noble women stood huddled together , while behind De Montfort and the King pushed twenty gentlemen and as many men at arms . 
What dost thou here , Norman of Torn ? cried De Montfort , angrily . 
As to your daughter I know nothing of her whereabouts . 
What should she have to do with the Devil of Torn , My Lord ? De Montfort turned toward the little gray man . 
He lies , shouted he . 
Her kisses be yet wet upon his lips . 
Thy days of usefulness to me be past tonight thou serve me best swinging from a wooden gibbet . 
Take him , My Lord Earl they say there be a good strong gibbet in the courtyard below . 
Wilt surrender , Norman of Torn ? cried De Mont fort . 
Yes , was the reply , when this floor be ankle deep in English blood and my heart has ceased to beat then will I surrender . 
Come , come , cried the King . 
But an officer of the guard set them the example , and so they pushed forward in a body toward Norman of Torn twenty blades bared against one . 
There was no play now for the Outlaw of Torn it was grim battle and his only hope that he might take a fearful toll of his enemies before he himself went down . 
And so he fought as he never fought before , to kill as many and as quickly as he might . 
The soldiers fell back momentarily , awed by the frightful havoc of that mighty arm . 
What other man in all England could stand thus against forty ? A lion at bay with forty jackals yelping at his feet . 
Enough , girl , cried the King , what be this knave to thee ? He loves me , Your Majesty , she replied proudly , and I , him . 
Thou lov'st this low born cut throat , Bertrade , cried Henry . 
Thou lov'st him , Bertrade ? asked Philip of France in a low tone , pressing nearer to the girl . 
Yes , Philip , she said , a little note of sadness and finality in her voice but her eyes met his squarely and bravely . 
Instantly the sword of the young Prince leaped from its scabbard , and facing De Montfort and the others he backed to the side of Norman of Torn . 
That she loves him be enough for me to know , my gentlemen , he said . 
Who takes the man Bertrade de Montfort loves must take Philip of France as well . 
Norman of Torn laid his left hand upon the other's shoulder . 
No , thou must not do this thing , my friend , he said . 
It be my fight and I will fight it alone . 
Go , I beg of thee , and take her with thee , out of harm's way . 
As they argued Simon de Montfort and the King had spoken together , and at a word from the former the soldiers rushed suddenly to the attack again . 
It was a cowardly strategem , for they knew that the two could not fight with the girl between them and their ad versaries . 
And , without waiting for a reply , the grim , gray man sprang in to engage him whom for twenty years he had called son . 
Back and forth about the room they moved , while those who had come to kill pressed back to make room for the contestants . 
Now was the young man forcing his older foeman more and more upon the defensive . 
Slowly , but as sure as death , he was winning ever nearer and nearer to victory . 
The old man saw it too . 
Presently he saw his opportunity . 
Norman of Torn stood beside the body of one of his earlier antagonists . 
Like lightning his sword shot through the opening , and , for the first time in his life of continual combat and death , Norman of Torn felt cold steel tear his flesh . 
Kneeling there beside him she called his name aloud , as she unlaced his helm . 
Tearing the steel headgear from him she caressed his face , kissing the white forehead and the still lips . 
Oh God ! Oh God ! she murmured . 
I do not wonder that he preyed upon you , she cried , turning upon the knights behind her . 
Mon Dieu ! How I hate you , she finished . 
And as she spoke the words Bertrade de Montfort looked straight into the eyes of her father . 
Come , child , said the King , thou art distraught thou sayest what thou mean not . 
The world is better that this man be dead . 
He was an enemy of organized society , he preyed ever upon his fellows . 
Life in Eng land will be safer after this day . 
Do not weep over the clay of a nameless adventurer who knew not his own father . 
Some one had lifted the little , grim , gray , old man to a sitting posture . 
Occasionally he coughed , and when he did his frame was racked with suffering , and blood flowed from his mouth and nostrils . 
At last they saw that he was trying to speak . 
Weakly he motioned toward the King . 
Thou hast won thy sovereign's gratitude , my man , said the King , kindly . 
What be thy name ? The old fellow tried to speak , but the effort brought on another paroxysm of coughing . 
At last he managed to whisper . 
Dost thou not remember me ? The foils the blow twenty long years . 
Henry knelt and peered into the dying face . 
De Vac ! he exclaimed . 
Then he pointed to where lay Norman of Torn . 
Outlaw highwayman scourge of England . 
Open his tunic left breast . 
He stopped from very weakness , and then in another moment , with a final effort De Vac's revenge . 
God damn the English , and slipped forward upon the rushes , dead . 
The King had heard , and De Montfort and the Queen . 
The Queen gave a little cry as she saw the still , quiet face turned up to hers . 
Not Edward , Madame , said De Montfort , but The King knelt beside the still form , across the breast of which lay the unconscious body of Bertrade de Mont fort . 
Oh God ! he cried , and buried his head in his arms . 
He lives ! she almost shrieked . 
Slowly the lids of Norman of Torn lifted with re turning consciousness . 
Before him , on her knees in the blood spattered rushes of the floor , knelt Eleanor , Queen of England , alternately chafing and kissing his hands . 
A sore wound indeed to have brought on such a wild delirium , thought the Outlaw of Torn . 
The girl came and knelt beside him , opposite the Queen . 
Bertrade , tell me thou art real that thou at least be no dream . 
I be very real , dear heart , she answered , and these others be real , also . 
When thou art stronger , thou shalt understand the strange thing that has happened . 
These who wert thine enemies , Norman of Torn , be thy best friends now that thou should know , so that thou may rest in peace until thou be better . 
He groped for her hand , and , finding it , closed his eyes with a faint sigh . 
The King's chirurgeon was there also , while the King and De Montfort paced the corridor without . 
Toward morning Norman of Torn fell into a quiet and natural sleep the fever and delirium had suc cumbed before his perfect health and iron constitution . 
The chirurgeon turned to the Queen and Bertrade de Montfort . 
You had best retire , ladies , he said , and rest the Prince will live . 
Late that afternoon he awoke , and no amount of persuasion or commands on the part of the King's chirurgeon could restrain him from arising . 
I beseech thee to lie quiet , My Lord Prince , urged the chirurgeon . 
Why call thou me prince ? asked Norman of Torn . 
The chirurgeon aided him to dress , and , opening the door , he spoke to a sentry who stood just without . 
It was all a sore perplexity to him he could not fathom it , nor did he attempt to . 
Richard , my son ! exclaimed Eleanor , coming to him and taking his face in her hands and kissing him . 
Madame ! exclaimed the surprised man . 
Be all the world gone crazy ? And then she told him the strange story of the little lost prince of England . 
When she had finished , he knelt at her feet , taking her hand in his and raising it to his lips . 
I did not know , Madame , he said , or never would my sword have been bared in other service than thine . 
If thou canst forgive me , Madame , never can I forgive myself . 
Forgiveness ! said a man's voice behind them . 
For sooth , it be we that should ask forgiveness hunting down our own son with swords and halters . 
By all the saints , Richard , thou be every inch a King's son , an' though we made sour faces at the time , we be all the prouder of thee now . 
The Queen and the outlaw had turned at the first words to see the King standing behind them , and now Norman of Torn rose , half smiling , and greeted his father . 
They be sorry jokes , Sire , he said . 
Methinks it had been better had Richard remained lost . 
It will do the honor of the Plantagenets but little good to acknowl edge the Outlaw of Torn as a prince of the blood . 
But they would not have it so , and it remained for a later King of England to wipe the great name from the pages of history perhaps a jealous king . 
It was by chance that , in a deep set window , he found her for whom he was searching . 
She sat looking wistfully into space , an expression half sad upon her beautiful face . 
