OUR NIG or , Sketches from the Life of a Free Black , In A Two Story White House , North . 
SHOWING THAT SLAVERY'S SHADOWS FALL EVEN THERE . 
Dedicated to Pauline Augusta Coleman Gates and Henry Louis Gates , Sr . 
IN offering to the public the following pages , the writer confesses her inability to minister to the refined and culti vated , the pleasure supplied by abler pens . 
It is not for such these crude narrations appear . 
Deserted by kindred , disabled by failing health , I am forced to some experiment which shall aid me in maintaining myself and child with out extinguishing this feeble life . 
I would not from these motives even palliate slavery at the South , by disclosures of its appurtenances North . 
My mistress was wholly imbued with SOUTHERN principles . 
My humble position and frank confession of errors will , I hope , shield me from severe criticism . 
Indeed , defects are so apparent it requires no skilful hand to expose them . 
H. E. W. OUR NIG . 
CHAPTER I. MAG SMITH , MY MOTHER . 
LONELY MAG SMITH ! See her as she walks with downcast eyes and heavy heart . 
It was not always thus . 
She HAD a loving , trusting heart . 
Early deprived of parental guardianship , far removed from relatives , she was left to guide her tiny boat over life's surges alone and inexperi enced . 
As she merged into womanhood , unpro tected , uncherished , uncared for , there fell on her ear the music of love , awakening an intensity of emotion long dormant . 
It whispered of an ele vation before unaspired to of ease and plenty her simple heart had never dreamed of as hers . 
She knew the voice of her charmer , so ravishing , sounded far above her . 
It seemed like an an gel's , alluring her upward and onward . 
She thought she could ascend to him and become an equal . 
She surrendered to him a priceless gem , which he proudly garnered as a trophy , with those of other victims , and left her to her fate . 
The world seemed full of hateful deceivers and crushing arrogance . 
Her offspring came unwelcomed , and before its nativity numbered weeks , it passed from earth , ascending to a purer and better life . 
God be thanked , ejaculated Mag , as she saw its breathing cease no one can taunt HER with my ruin . 
Blessed release ! may we all respond . 
Then some foul tongue would jest of her shame , and averted looks and cold greetings disheartened her . 
She saw she could not bury in forgetfulness her misdeed , so she resolved to leave her home and seek another in the place she at first fled from . 
She vowed to ask no favors of familiar faces to die neglected and for gotten before she would be dependent on any . 
In two years many hands craved the same avocation foreigners who cheapened toil and clamored for a livelihood , competed with her , and she could not thus sus tain herself . 
She was now above no drudgery . 
Thus she lived for years , hugging her wrongs , but making no effort to escape . 
She had never known plenty , scarcely competency but the present was beyond comparison with those innocent years when the coronet of virtue was hers . 
Every year her melancholy increased , her means diminished . 
How much you earn dis week , Mag ? asked he one Saturday evening . 
Two or three days with out any dinner . 
I washed for the Reeds , and did a small job for Mrs. Bellmont that's all . 
I shall starve soon , unless I can get more to do . 
Folks seem as afraid to come here as if they expected to get some awful disease . 
I don't believe there is a person in the world but would be glad to have me dead and out of the way . 
No , no , Mag ! don't talk so . 
You shan't starve so long as I have barrels to hoop . 
Peter Greene boards me cheap . 
I'll help you , if nobody else will . 
A tear stood in Mag's faded eye . 
I'm glad , she said , with a softer tone than before , if there is ONE who isn't glad to see me suffer . 
I b'lieve all Singleton wants to see me punished , and feel as if they could tell when I've been punished long enough . 
It's a long day ahead they'll set it , I reckon . 
After the usual supply of fuel was prepared , Jim returned home . 
Full of pity for Mag , he set about devising measures for her relief . 
Who ? shouted Pete Greene , suddenly start ing from an unobserved corner of the rude shop . 
Where you come from , you sly nigger ! ex claimed Jim . 
Don't steal in like a thief . 
Pity and love know little severance . 
Jim acknowledged the pres ence of the former , and his efforts in Mag's behalf told also of a finer principle . 
This sudden expedient which he had uninten tionally disclosed , roused his thinking and invent ive powers to study upon the best method of introducing the subject to Mag . 
He belted his barrels , with many a scheme re volving in his mind , none of which quite satisfied him , or seemed , on the whole , expedient . 
Satisfied on this point , he continued She'd be as much of a prize to me as she'd fall short of coming up to the mark with white folks . 
I don't care for past things . 
I've done things 'fore now I's 'shamed of . 
She's good enough for me , any how . 
One more glance about the premises to be sure Pete was away . 
The next Saturday night brought Jim to the hovel again . 
The cold was fast coming to tarry its apportioned time . 
Mag was nearly despairing of meeting its rigor . 
How's the wood , Mag ? asked Jim . 
All gone and no more to cut , any how , was the reply . 
Too bad ! Jim said . 
His truthful reply would have been , I'm glad . 
Anything to eat in the house ? continued he . 
Too bad ! again , orally , with the same INWARD gratulation as before . 
Well , Mag , said Jim , after a short pause , you's down low enough . 
I don't see but I've got to take care of ye . 
'Sposin' we marry ! Mag raised her eyes , full of amazement , and uttered a sonorous What ? Jim felt abashed for a moment . 
He knew well what were her objections . 
You's had trial of white folks any how . 
They run off and left ye , and now none of 'em come near ye to see if you's dead or alive . 
I's black outside , I know , but I's got a white heart inside . 
I can do but two things , said she , beg my living , or get it from you . 
I can give you a better home than this , and not let you suffer so . 
You can philos ophize , gentle reader , upon the impropriety of such unions , and preach dozens of sermons on the evils of amalgamation . 
Want is a more power ful philosopher and preacher . 
She has sundered another bond which held her to her fellows . 
She has descended another step down the ladder of infamy . 
Misery ! we have known each other , Like a sister and a brother , Living in the same lone home Many years we must live some Hours or ages yet to come . 
JIM , proud of his treasure , a white wife , tried hard to fulfil his promises and furnished her with a more comfortable dwelling , diet , and apparel . 
It was comparatively a comfortable winter she passed after her marriage . 
When Jim could work , all went on well . 
Industrious , and fond of Mag , he was determined she should not regret her union to him . 
Time levied an additional charge upon him , in the form of two pretty mulattos , whose infantile pranks amply repaid the additional toil . 
A few years , and a severe cough and pain in his side compelled him to be an idler for weeks together , and Mag had thus a reminder of by gones . 
She cared for him only as a means to subserve her own comfort yet she nursed him faithfully and true to mar riage vows till death released her . 
He became the victim of consumption . 
He loved Mag to the last . 
So long as life continued , he stifled his sensibility to pain , and toiled for her sustenance long after he was able to do so . 
A feeling of cold desolation came over her , as she turned from the grave of one who had been truly faithful to her . 
She was now expelled from companionship with white people this last step her union with a black was the climax of repulsion . 
Seth accompanied her , giving her a weekly allowance which furnished most of the food necessary for the four inmates . 
After a time , work failed their means were reduced . 
How Mag toiled and suffered , yielding to fits of desperation , bursts of anger , and uttering curses too fearful to repeat . 
When both were supplied with work , they prospered if idle , they were hungry together . 
In this way their inter ests became united they planned for the future together . 
Mag had lived an outcast for years . 
She had ceased to feel the gushings of peni tence she had crushed the sharp agonies of an awakened conscience . 
She had no longings for a purer heart , a better life . 
Far easier to descend lower . 
She entered the darkness of perpetual infamy . 
She asked not the rite of civilization or Christianity . 
Her will made her the wife of Seth . 
Soon followed scenes familiar and trying . 
It's no use , said Seth one day we must give the children away , and try to get work in some other place . 
Who'll take the black devils ? snarled Mag . 
They're none of mine , said Seth what you growling about ? Nobody will want any thing of mine , or yours either , she replied . 
We'll make 'em , p'r'aps , he said . 
There's Frado's six years old , and pretty , if she is yours , and white folks'll say so . 
Hearing her name mentioned , she looked up from her play , to see what Seth had to say of her . 
Wouldn't the Bellmonts take her ? asked Seth . 
Well , we've got to make a move soon , answered Seth if you go with me , we shall go right off . 
Had you rather spare the other one ? asked Seth , after a short pause . 
One's as bad as t'other , replied Mag . 
Frado is such a wild , frolicky thing , and means to do jest as she's a mind to she won't go if she don't want to . 
I don't want to tell her she is to be given away . 
I will , said Seth . 
Come here , Frado ? The child seemed to have some dim fore shadowing of evil , and declined . 
Come here , he continued I want to tell you something . 
She's a hard one , said Seth , brushing his patched coat sleeve . 
I'd risk her at Bell mont's . 
They discussed the expediency of a speedy departure . 
Seth would first seek employment , and then return for Mag . 
They would take with them what they could carry , and leave the rest with Pete Greene , and come for them when they were wanted . 
They were long in arrang ing affairs satisfactorily , and were not a little startled at the close of their conference to find Frado missing . 
They thought approaching night would bring her . 
Twilight passed into dark ness , and she did not come . 
They thought she had understood their plans , and had , perhaps , permanently withdrawn . 
They could not rest without making some effort to ascertain her retreat . 
Seth went in pursuit , and returned without her . 
They rallied others when they dis covered that another little colored girl was miss ing , a favorite playmate of Frado's . 
Mag felt sure her fears were realized , and that she might never see her again . 
They had climbed fences and walls , passed through thickets and marshes , and when night approached selected a thick cluster of shrubbery as a covert for the night . 
They were discovered by the person who now restored them , chatting of their prospects , Frado attempt ing to banish the childish fears of her com panion . 
As they were some miles from home , they were kindly cared for until morning . 
Mag was relieved to know her child was not driven to desperation by their intentions to relieve themselves of her , and she was inclined to think severe restraint would be healthful . 
As they neared the village , they heard the merry shouts of children gathered around the schoolroom , awaiting the coming of their teacher . 
Halloo ! screamed one , Black , white and yeller ! Black , white and yeller , echoed a dozen voices . 
It did not grate so harshly on poor Mag as once it would . 
She did not even turn her head to look at them . 
Two miles beyond lived the Bellmonts , in a large , old fashioned , two story white house , en vironed by fruitful acres , and embellished by shrubbery and shade trees . 
His aged consort soon followed him . 
The old homestead thus passed into the hands of a son , to whose wife Mag had applied the epithet she devil , as may be remembered . 
John , the son , had not in his family arrange ments departed from the example of the father . 
At the time we introduce them , however , John is wearing the badge of age . 
Most of his children were from home some seeking em ployment some were already settled in homes of their own . 
A maiden sister shared with him the estate on which he resided , and occupied a portion of the house . 
Within sight of the house , Seth seated himself with his bundles and the child he had been lead ing , while Mag walked onward to the house leading Frado . 
It seemed a novel request , but she consented . 
Why the impetuous child entered the house , we cannot tell the door closed , and Mag hastily departed . 
Frado waited for the close of day , which was to bring back her mother . 
Alas ! it never came . 
It was the last time she ever saw or heard of her mother . 
A NEW HOME FOR ME . 
As the day closed and Mag did not appear , surmises were expressed by the family that she never intended to return . 
Mr. Bellmont was a kind , humane man , who would not grudge hospi tality to the poorest wanderer , nor fail to sym pathize with any sufferer , however humble . 
The child's desertion by her mother appealed to his sympathy , and he felt inclined to succor her . 
To do this in opposition to Mrs. Bellmont's wishes , would be like encountering a whirlwind charged with fire , daggers and spikes . 
She was not as susceptible of fine emotions as her spouse . 
Mag's opinion of her was not without founda tion . 
She was self willed , haughty , undisciplined , arbitrary and severe . 
In common parlance , she was a SCOLD , a thorough one . 
Mr. B. remained silent during the consultation which follows , engaged in by mother , Mary and John , or Jack , as he was familiarly called . 
Send her to the County House , said Mary , in reply to the query what should be done with her , in a tone which indicated self importance in the speaker . 
She was indeed the idol of her mother , and more nearly resembled her in dis position and manners than the others . 
Jane , an invalid daughter , the eldest of those at home , was reclining on a sofa apparently un interested . 
Keep her , said Jack . 
She's real hand some and bright , and not very black , either . 
Yes , rejoined Mary that's just like you , Jack . 
She'll be of no use at all these three years , right under foot all the time . 
Poh ! Miss Mary if she should stay , it wouldn't be two days before you would be telling the girls about OUR nig , OUR nig ! retorted Jack . 
I don't want a nigger 'round ME , do you , mother ? asked Mary . 
I don't mind the nigger in the child . 
I should like a dozen better than one , replied her mother . 
If I could make her do my work in a few years , I would keep her . 
I am tired of changing every few months . 
Where could she sleep ? asked Mary . 
I don't want her near me . 
In the L chamber , answered the mother . 
How'll she get there ? asked Jack . 
She'll be afraid to go through that dark passage , and she can't climb the ladder safely . 
She'll have to go there it's good enough for a nigger , was the reply . 
Jack was sent on horseback to ascertain if Mag was at her home . 
He returned with the testimony of Pete Greene that they were fairly departed , and that the child was intentionally thrust upon their family . 
The imposition was not at all relished by Mrs. B. , or the pert , haughty Mary , who had just glided into her teens . 
Show the child to bed , Jack , said his mother . 
You seem most pleased with the little nigger , so you may introduce her to her room . 
It was not yet quite dark , so they ascended the stairs without any light , passing through nicely furnished rooms , which were a source of great amazement to the child . 
He opened the door which connected with her room by a dark , unfinished passage way . 
A small half window furnished light and air . 
Jack returned to the sitting room with the remark that the child would soon outgrow those quarters . 
When she DOES , she'll outgrow the house , remarked the mother . 
What can she do to help you ? asked Mary . 
She came just in the right time , didn't she ? Just the very day after Bridget left , continued she . 
I'll see what she can do in the morning , was the answer . 
While this conversation was passing below , Frado lay , revolving in her little mind whether she would remain or not until her mother's return . 
She was of wilful , determined nature , a stranger to fear , and would not hesitate to wander away should she decide to . 
So she resolved to tarry , with the hope that mother would come and get her some time . 
The hot sun had penetrated her room , and it was long before a cooling breeze reduced the temperature so that she could sleep . 
Frado was called early in the morning by her new mistress . 
Her first work was to feed the hens . 
She was shown how it was ALWAYS to be done , and in no other way any departure from this rule to be punished by a whipping . 
She was then accompanied by Jack to drive the cows to pasture , so she might learn the way . 
Meanwhile the family were taking their morning meal in the dining room . 
A large amount of dish washing for small hands followed dinner . 
Then the same after tea and going after the cows finished her first day's work . 
It was a new discipline to the child . 
She found some attractions about the place , and she retired to rest at night more willing to remain . 
The same routine followed day after day , with slight variation adding a little more work , and spicing the toil with words that burn , and fre quent blows on her head . 
These were great annoyances to Frado , and had she known where her mother was , she would have gone at once to her . 
She was often greatly wearied , and silently wept over her sad fate . 
At first she wept aloud , which Mrs. Bellmont noticed by applying a raw hide , always at hand in the kitchen . 
It was a symptom of discontent and complaining which must be nipped in the bud , she said . 
It was now certain Frado was to become a per manent member of the family . 
Her labors were multiplied she was quite indispensable , although but seven years old . 
She had never learned to read , never heard of a school until her residence in the family . 
Mrs. Bellmont was in doubt about the utility of attempting to educate people of color , who were incapable of elevation . 
This subject occa sioned a lengthy discussion in the family . 
Mr. Bellmont , Jane and Jack arguing for Frado's education Mary and her mother objecting . 
At last Mr. Bellmont declared decisively that she SHOULD go to school . 
He was a man who seldom decided controversies at home . 
The word once spoken admitted of no appeal so , notwithstand ing Mary's objection that she would have to attend the same school she did , the word became law . 
It was to be a new scene to Frado , and Jack had many queries and conjectures to answer . 
He was himself too far advanced to attend the summer school , which Frado regretted , having had too many opportunities of witnessing Miss Mary's temper to feel safe in her company alone . 
The opening day of school came . 
Frado sauntered on far in the rear of Mary , who was ashamed to be seen walking with a nigger . 
As soon as she appeared , with scanty clothing and bared feet , the children assembled , noisily published her approach See that nigger , shouted one . 
Look ! look ! cried another . 
I won't play with her , said one little girl . 
Nor I neither , replied another . 
Mary evidently relished these sharp attacks , and saw a fair prospect of lowering Nig where , according to her views , she belonged . 
Poor Frado , chagrined and grieved , felt that her an ticipations of pleasure at such a place were far from being realized . 
It was soon all told . 
Those kind words ! The most agreeable sound which ever meets the ear of sorrowing , griev ing childhood . 
Example rendered her words efficacious . 
Day by day there was a manifest change of de portment towards Nig . 
Her speeches often drew merriment from the children no one could do more to enliven their favorite pastimes than Frado . 
Mary could not endure to see her thus noticed , yet knew not how to prevent it . 
She could not influence her schoolmates as she wished . 
She had not gained their affections by winning ways and yielding points of con troversy . 
On the contrary , she was self willed , domineering every day reported mad by some of her companions . 
She availed herself of the only alternative , abuse and taunts , as they returned from school . 
This was not satis factory she wanted to use physical force to subdue her , to keep her down . 
There was , on their way home , a field inter sected by a stream over which a single plank was placed for a crossing . 
Mary placed herself behind the child , and , in the struggle to force her over , lost her footing and plunged into the stream . 
Some of the larger scholars being in sight , ran , and thus prevented Mary from drowning and Frado from falling . 
Nig scampered home fast as possible , and Mary went to the nearest house , dripping , to procure a change of garments . 
She came loitering home , half crying , exclaiming , Nig pushed me into the stream ! She then related the particulars . 
Nig was called from the kitchen . 
Mary stood with anger flashing in her eyes . 
Mr. Bellmont sat quietly reading his paper . 
He had wit nessed too many of Miss Mary's outbreaks to be startled . 
I didn't do it ! I didn't do it ! answered Nig , passionately , and then related the occur rence truthfully . 
The discrepancy greatly enraged Mrs. Bell mont . 
With loud accusations and angry ges tures she approached the child . 
For employment , while the tempest raged within , Mr. Bellmont went for the cows , a task belonging to Frado , and thus unintentionally prolonged her pain . 
Stop ! said his mother . 
You shall never talk so before me . 
You would have that little nigger trample on Mary , would you ? She came home with a lie it made Mary's story false . 
What was Mary's story ? asked Jack . 
Now , said Jack , sallying into a chair , the school children happened to see it all , and they tell the same story Nig does . 
I think it is time your father subdued you . 
Father is a sensible man , argued Jack . 
He would not wrong a dog . 
Where IS Frado ? he continued . 
Mother gave her a good whipping and shut her up , replied Mary . 
Just then Mr. Bellmont entered , and asked if Frado was shut up yet . 
The knowledge of her innocence , the perfidy of his sister , worked fearfully on Jack . 
He bounded from his chair , searched every room till he found the child her mouth wedged apart , her face swollen , and full of pain . 
Jack went early to her next morning . 
She awoke sad , but refreshed . 
After breakfast Jack took her with him to the field , and kept her through the day . 
But it could not be so generally . 
She must return to school , to her household duties . 
He resolved to do what he could to protect her from Mary and his mother . 
He bought her a dog , which became a great favorite with both . 
The invalid , Jane , would gladly befriend her but she had not the strength to brave the iron will of her mother . 
Kind words and affectionate glances were the only expressions of sympathy she could safely indulge in . 
The men employed on the farm were always glad to hear her prattle she was a great favorite with them . 
Mrs. Bellmont al lowed them the privilege of talking with her in the kitchen . 
She did not fear but she should have ample opportunity of subduing her when they were away . 
Three months of schooling , summer and winter , she enjoyed for three years . 
Her winter over dress was a cast off overcoat , once worn by Jack , and a sun bonnet . 
Her jollity was not to be quenched by whipping or scolding . 
In Mrs. Bellmont's presence she was under re straint but in the kitchen , and among her schoolmates , the pent up fires burst forth . 
They enjoyed her antics so fully that any of them would suffer wrongfully to keep open the avenues of mirth . 
She would venture far be yond propriety , thus shielded and countenanced . 
The teacher's desk was supplied with drawers , in which were stored his books and other et ceteras of the profession . 
The children observed Nig very busy there one morning before school , as they flitted in occasionally from their play outside . 
The master came called the children to order opened a drawer to take the book the occasion required when out poured a volume of smoke . 
Fire ! fire ! screamed he , at the top of his voice . 
By this time he had become suf ficiently acquainted with the peculiar odor , to know he was imposed upon . 
The interim of terms was filled up with a variety of duties new and peculiar . 
At home , no matter how powerful the heat when sent to rake hay or guard the grazing herd , she was never permitted to shield her skin from the sun . 
She was not many shades darker than Mary now what a calamity it would be ever to hear the contrast spoken of . 
Mrs. Bellmont was determined the sun should have full power to darken the shade which nature had first bestowed upon her as best befitting . 
WITH what differing emotions have the deni zens of earth awaited the approach of to day . 
Some sufferer has counted the vibrations of the pendulum impatient for its dawn , who , now that it has arrived , is anxious for its close . 
The vo tary of pleasure , conscious of yesterday's void , wishes for power to arrest time's haste till a few more hours of mirth shall be enjoyed . 
The un fortunate are yet gazing in vain for golden edged clouds they fancied would appear in their horizon . 
The good man feels that he has accom plished too little for the Master , and sighs that another day must so soon close . 
Innocent child hood , weary of its stay , longs for another mor row busy manhood cries , hold ! hold ! and pur sues it to another's dawn . 
All crave some good not yet possessed , which time is expected to bring with all its morrows . 
Was it strange that , to a disconsolate child , three years should seem a long , long time ? During school time she had rest from Mrs. Bell mont's tyranny . 
She was now nine years old time , her mistress said , such privileges should cease . 
She could now read and spell , and knew the elementary steps in grammar , arithmetic , and writing . 
Her education completed , as SHE said , Mrs. Bellmont felt that her time and person belonged solely to her . 
She was under her in every sense of the word . 
These were days when Fido was the entire confidant of Frado . 
She told him her griefs as though he were human and he sat so still , and listened so attentively , she really believed he knew her sorrows . 
Fido was the constant attendant of Frado , when sent from the house on errands , going and returning with the cows , out in the fields , to the village . 
If ever she forgot her hardships it was in his company . 
James , one of the absent sons , was expected home on a visit . 
He had never seen the last acquisition to the family . 
Jack had written faithfully of all the merits of his colored protege , and hinted plainly that mother did not always treat her just right . 
The morning of the arrival day was a busy one . 
Frado knew not who would be of so much importance her feet were speeding hither and thither so unsparingly . 
Mrs. Bellmont seemed a trifle fatigued , and her shoes which had , early in the morning , a methodic squeak , altered to an irregular , peevish snap . 
Get some little wood to make the fire burn , said Mrs. Bellmont , in a sharp tone . 
Frado obeyed , bringing the smallest she could find . 
Mrs. Bellmont approached her , and , giving her a box on her ear , reiterated the command . 
The first the child brought was the smallest to be found of course , the second must be a trifle larger . 
She well knew it was , as she threw it into a box on the hearth . 
To Mrs. Bellmont it was a greater affront , as well as larger wood , so she taught her with the raw hide , and sent her the third time for little wood . 
Nig , weeping , knew not what to do . 
She had carried the smallest none left would suit her mistress of course further punishment await ed her so she gathered up whatever came first , and threw it down on the hearth . 
As she ex pected , Mrs. Bellmont , enraged , approached her , and kicked her so forcibly as to throw her upon the floor . 
Before she could rise , another foiled the attempt , and then followed kick after kick in quick succession and power , till she reached the door . 
Mr. Bellmont and Aunt Abby , hearing the noise , rushed in , just in time to see the last of the performance . 
Nig jumped up , and rushed from the house , out of sight . 
Aunt Abby returned to her apartment , fol lowed by John , who was muttering to himself . 
What were you saying ? asked Aunt Abby . 
I said I hoped the child never would come into the house again . 
What would become of her ? You cannot mean THAT , continued his sister . 
The child does as much work as a woman ought to and just see how she is kicked about ! Why do you have it so , John ? asked his sister . 
How am I to help it ? Women rule the earth , and all in it . 
I think I should rule my own house , John , And live in hell meantime , added Mr. Bellmont . 
John now sauntered out to the barn to await the quieting of the storm . 
Her sister in law had great prejudices against her . 
Mary had often noticed and spoken of her inconsistencies . 
Frado had not ap peared . 
Mrs. B. made no inquiry or search . 
Aunt Abby looked long , and found her con cealed in an outbuilding . 
Come into the house with me , implored Aunt Abby . 
I ain't going in any more , sobbed the child . 
What will you do ? asked Aunt Abby . 
I've got to stay out here and die . 
I ha'n't got no mother , no home . 
I wish I was dead . 
Poor thing , muttered Aunt Abby and slyly providing her with some dinner , left her to her grief . 
Jane went to confer with her Aunt about the affair and learned from her the retreat . 
Toward night the coach brought James . 
Where's Frado ? asked Mr. Bellmont , ob serving she was not in her usual place , behind her mistress' chair . 
I don't know , and I don't care . 
If she makes her appearance again , I'll take the skin from her body , replied his wife . 
James , a fine looking young man , with a pleasant countenance , placid , and yet decidedly serious , yet not stern , looked up confounded . 
She shall learn her place . 
Remember ! and he brought his hand down upon the table . 
I have searched an hour for her now , and she is not to be found on the premises . 
Do YOU know where she is ? Is she YOUR prisoner ? No ! I have just told you I did not know where she was . 
Nab has her hid somewhere , I suppose . 
Oh , dear ! I did not think it would come to this that my own husband would treat me so . 
Then came fast flowing tears , which no one but Mary seemed to notice . 
Jane crept into Aunt Abby's room Mr. Bellmont and James went out of doors , and Mary remained to condole with her parent . 
Do you know where Frado is ? asked Jane of her aunt . 
I have hunted every where . 
She has left her first hiding place . 
I cannot think what has become of her . 
There comes Jack and Fido perhaps he knows and she walked to a window near , where James and his father were conversing together . 
The two brothers exchanged a hearty greet ing , and then Mr. Bellmont told Jack to eat his supper afterward he wished to send him away . 
Accustomed to all the phases of indoor storms , from a whine to thunder and lightning , he saw at a glance marks of disturbance . 
He had been absent through the day , with the hired men . 
What's the fuss ? asked he , rushing into Aunt Abby's . 
Eat your supper , said Jane go home , Jack . 
Back again through the dining room , and out to his father . 
What's the fuss ? again inquired he of his father . 
Eat your supper , Jack , and see if you can find Frado . 
She's not been seen since morning , and then she was kicked out of the house . 
I shan't eat my supper till I find her , said Jack , indignantly . 
Come , James , and see the little creature mother treats so . 
They started , calling , searching , coaxing , all their way along . 
They returned to the house to consult . 
James and Jack declared they would not sleep till she was found . 
Mrs. Bellmont attempted to dissuade them from the search . 
It was a shame a little NIGGER should make so much trouble . 
Just then Fido came running up , and Jack exclaimed , Fido knows where she is , I'll bet . 
So I believe , said his father but we shall not be wiser unless we can outwit him . 
He will not do what his mistress forbids him . 
I know how to fix him , said Jack . 
Taking a plate from the table , which was still waiting , he called , Fido ! Fido ! Frado wants some sup per . 
Jack followed close , and soon appeared to James , who was quite in the rear , coaxing and forcing Frado along with him . 
A frail child , driven from shelter by the cru elty of his mother , was an object of interest to James . 
They persuaded her to go home with them , warmed her by the kitchen fire , gave her a good supper , and took her with them into the sitting room . 
Take that nigger out of my sight , was Mrs. Bellmont's command , before they could be seated . 
James led her into Aunt Abby's , where he knew they were welcome . 
They chatted awhile until Frado seemed cheerful then James led her to her room , and waited until she retired . 
Are you glad I've come home ? asked James . 
Yes if you won't let me be whipped to morrow . 
You must try to be a good girl , counselled James . 
If I do , I get whipped , sobbed the child . 
They won't believe what I say . 
Oh , I wish I had my mother back then I should not be kicked and whipped so . 
Who made me so ? God , answered James . 
Did God make you ? Yes . 
Who made Aunt Abby ? God . 
Who made your mother ? God . 
Did the same God that made her make me ? Yes . 
Well , then , I don't like him . 
Why not ? Because he made her white , and me black . 
It was a long time before she fell asleep and a number of days before James felt in a mood to visit and entertain old associates and friends . 
Life is a strange avenue of various trees and flowers Lightsome at commencement , but darkening to its end in a distant , massy portal . 
It beginneth as a little path , edged with the violet and primrose , A little path of lawny grass and soft to tiny feet . 
Soon , spring thistles in the way . 
Frado had become greatly attached to him , and with sorrow she listened and joined in the farewells which pre ceded his exit . 
The remembrance of his kind ness cheered her through many a weary month , and an occasional word to her in letters to Jack , were like cold waters to a thirsty soul . 
In telligence came that James would soon marry Frado hoped he would , and remove her from such severe treatment as she was subject to . 
There had been additional burdens laid on her since his return . 
She must now MILK the cows , she had then only to drive . 
Flocks of sheep had been added to the farm , which daily claimed a portion of her time . 
She was first up in the morning , doing what she could towards breakfast . 
Occasionally , she would utter some funny thing for Jack's benefit , while she was waiting on the table , provoking a sharp look from his mother , or expulsion from the room . 
On one such occasion , they found her on the roof of the barn . 
Some repairs having been necessary , a staging had been erected , and was not wholly removed . 
Availing herself of lad ders , she was mounted in high glee on the top most board . 
Mr. Bellmont called sternly for her to come down poor Jane nearly fainted from fear . 
Mrs. B. and Mary did not care if she broke her neck , while Jack and the men laughed at her fearlessness . 
When she had none of the family around to be merry with , she would amuse herself with the animals . 
The pas ture in which the sheep grazed was founded on three sides by a wide stream , which flowed on one side at the base of precipitous banks . 
Mr. Bell mont , with his laborers , were in sight , though unseen by Frado . 
They paused to see what she was about to do . 
Should she by any mishap lose her footing , she must roll into the stream , and , without aid , must drown . 
They thought of shouting but they feared an unexpected salute might startle her , and thus ensure what they were anxious to prevent . 
They watched in breathless silence . 
The willful sheep came furi ously leaping and bounding far in advance of the flock . 
Just as he leaped for the dish , she suddenly jumped to one side , when down he rolled into the river , and swimming across , remained alone till night . 
The men lay down , convulsed with laughter at the trick , and guessed at once its object . 
James married a Baltimorean lady of wealthy parentage , an indispensable requisite , his mother had always taught him . 
He did not marry her wealth , though he loved HER , sincerely . 
She was not unlike his sister Jane , who had a social , gentle , loving nature , rather TOO yielding , her brother thought . 
His Susan had a firmness which Jane needed to complete her character , but which her ill health may in a measure have failed to produce . 
Al though an invalid , she was not excluded from society . 
Was it strange SHE should seem a desir able companion , a treasure as a wife ? Two young men seemed desirous of possess ing her . 
One was a neighbor , Henry Reed , a tall , spare young man , with sandy hair , and blue , sinister eyes . 
He seemed to appreciate her wants , and watch with interest her improvement or decay . 
His kindness she received , and by it was almost won . 
Her mother wished her to en courage his attentions . 
She had counted the acres which were to be transmitted to an only son she knew there was silver in the purse she would not have Jane too sentimental . 
The eagerness with which he amassed wealth , was repulsive to Jane he did not spare his per son or beasts in its pursuit . 
She felt that to such a man she should be considered an incum brance she doubted if he would desire her , if he did not know she would bring a handsome patrimony . 
Her mother , full in favor with the parents of Henry , commanded her to accept him . 
She knew her husband should be the man of her own selecting , one she was conscious of preferring before all others . 
She could not say this of Henry . 
In this dilemma , a visitor came to Aunt Abby's one of her boy favorites , George Means , from an adjoining State . 
Sensible , plain looking , agreeable , talented , he could not long be a stranger to any one who wished to know him . 
Jane was accustomed to sit much with Aunt Abby always her presence now seemed neces sary to assist in entertaining this youthful friend . 
Jane was more pleased with him each day , and silently wished Henry possessed more refinement , and the polished manners of George . 
She felt dissatisfied with her relation to him . 
His calls while George was there , brought their opposing qualities vividly before her , and she found it disagreeable to force herself into those atten tions belonging to him . 
She received him ap parently only as a neighbor . 
Well was it for her that her mother's suspicion was not aroused , or her curiosity startled to inquire who it came from . 
After reading it , she glided into Aunt Abby's , and placed it in her hands , who was no stranger to Jane's trials . 
He begged to know if his affections were reciprocated , or could be if she would permit him to write to her if she was free from all obligation to another . 
What would mother say ? queried Jane , as she received the letter from her aunt . 
Not much to comfort you . 
Well , aunt , what can I do ? Would you answer the letter , or not ? Yes , answer it . 
I shall not tell him all my feelings . 
George was puzzled by the reply . 
He wrote to Aunt Abby , and from her learned all . 
He could not see Jane thus sacrificed , without mak ing an effort to rescue her . 
George heard Jane say she preferred HIM . 
He then conferred with Henry at his home . 
It was not a pleasant subject to talk upon . 
To be thus supplanted , was not to be thought of . 
He would sacrifice everything but his inheritance to secure his betrothed . 
And so you are the cause of her late cold ness towards me . 
Leave ! I will talk no more about it the business is settled between us there it will remain , said Henry . 
Have you no wish to know the real state of Jane's affections towards you ? asked George . 
No ! Go , I say ! go ! and Henry opened the door for him to pass out . 
He retired to Aunt Abby's . 
Henry soon fol lowed , and presented his cause to Mrs. Bellmont . 
George Means was rightly named he was , truly , mean enough she knew his family of old his father had four wives , and five times as many children . 
Go to your room , Miss Jane , she continued . 
Don't let me know of your being in Nab's for one while . 
The storm was now visible to all beholders . 
She told him her ob jections to Henry showed him George's letter told her answer , the occasion of his visit . 
He bade her not make herself sick he would see that she was not compelled to violate her free choice in so important a transaction . 
She must be left free to her own choice . 
Jane sent Henry a letter of dismission he her one of a legal bearing , in which he balanced his disappointment by a few hundreds . 
To brave her mother's fury , nearly overcame her , but the consolation of a kind father and aunt cheered her on . 
After a suitable interval she was married to George , and removed to his home in Vermont . 
Thus another light disap peared from Nig's horizon . 
Another was soon to follow . 
As if to remove the last vestige of earthly joy , Mrs. Bellmont sold the companion and pet of Frado , the dog Fido . 
Hard are life's early steps and but that youth is buoyant , con fident , and strong in hope , men would behold its threshold and despair . 
THE sorrow of Frado was very great for her pet , and Mr. Bellmont by great exertion obtained it again , much to the relief of the child . 
Mary was installed housekeeper in name merely , for Nig was the only moving power in the house . 
The trial she must meet . 
Were Jack or Jane at home she would have some refuge one only remained good Aunt Abby was still in the house . 
She was now able to do all the washing , iron ing , baking , and the common et cetera of house hold duties , though but fourteen . 
Mary left all for her to do , though she affected great responsi bility . 
Nig was taken sick ! What could be done The WORK , certainly , but not by Miss Mary . 
So Nig would work while she could remain erect , then sink down upon the floor , or a chair , till she could rally for a fresh effort . 
Mary would look in upon her , chide her for her laziness , threaten to tell mother when she came home , and so forth . 
Nig ! screamed Mary , one of her sickest days , come here , and sweep these threads from the carpet . 
She attempted to drag her weary limbs along , using the broom as support . 
Impa tient of delay , she called again , but with a differ ent request . 
Bring me some wood , you lazy jade , quick . 
Nig rested the broom against the wall , and started on the fresh behest . 
Flushed with anger , she rose and greeted her with , What are you gone so long for ? Bring it in quick , I say . 
I am coming as quick as I can , she replied , entering the door . 
Dodging quickly , it fastened in the ceiling a few inches from where she stood . 
There rushed on Mary's mental vision a picture of bloodshed , in which she was the perpetrator , and the sad consequences of what was so nearly an actual occurrence . 
Tell anybody of this , if you dare . 
If you tell Aunt Abby , I'll certainly kill you , said she , terrified . 
She returned to her room , brushed her threads herself was for a day or two more guarded , and so escaped deserved and merited penalty . 
Oh , how long the weeks seemed which held Nig in subjection to Mary but they passed like all earth's sorrows and joys . 
Mr. and Mrs. B. returned delighted with their visit , and laden with rich presents for Mary . 
No word of hope for Nig . 
James was quite unwell , and would come home the next spring for a visit . 
This , thought Nig , will be my time of release . 
I shall go back with him . 
From early dawn until after all were retired , was she toiling , overworked , disheartened , long ing for relief . 
Exposure from heat to cold , or the reverse , often destroyed her health for short intervals . 
She wore no shoes until after frost , and snow even , appeared and bared her feet again before the last vestige of winter disappeared . 
These sudden changes she was so illy guarded against , nearly conquered her physical system . 
Any word of complaint was severely repulsed or cru elly punished . 
She was told she had much more than she deserved . 
It is impossible to give an impression of the manifest enjoyment of Mrs. B. in these kitchen scenes . 
No one now stood between herself and Frado , but Aunt Abby . 
And if SHE dared to interfere in the least , she was ordered back to her own quarters . 
The first of spring a letter came from James , announcing declining health . 
He must try northern air as a restorative so Frado joyfully prepared for this agreeable increase of the family , this addition to her cares . 
He arrived feeble , lame , from his disease , so changed Frado wept at his appearance , fearing he would be removed from her forever . 
He kindly greeted her , took her to the parlor to see his wife and child , and said many things to kindle smiles on her sad face . 
Frado felt so happy in his presence , so safe from maltreatment ! He was to her a shelter . 
He observed , silently , the ways of the house a few days Nig still took her meals in the same manner as formerly , having the same allowance of food . 
He , one day , bade her not remove the food , but sit down to the table and eat . 
She WILL , mother , said he , calmly , but impera tively I'm determined she works hard I've watched her . 
Now , while I stay , she is going to sit down HERE , and eat such food as we eat . 
A few sparks from the mother's black eyes were the only reply she feared to oppose where she knew she could not prevail . 
So Nig's stand ing attitude , and selected diet vanished . 
Her clothing was yet poor and scanty she was not blessed with a Sunday attire for she was never permitted to attend church with her mis tress . 
But Aunt Abby looked within . 
She saw a soul to save , an immortality of happi ness to secure . 
These evenings were eagerly anticipated by Nig it was such a pleasant release from labor . 
Such perfect contrast in the melody and pray ers of these good people to the harsh tones which fell on her ears during the day . 
Soon she had all their sacred songs at com mand , and enlivened her toil by accompanying it with this melody . 
James encouraged his aunt in her efforts . 
He had found the SAVIOUR , he wished to have Frado's desolate heart gladdened , quieted , sustained , by HIS presence . 
He felt sure there were elements in her heart which , transformed and purified by the gospel , would make her worthy the esteem and friendship of the world . 
Yet it was not possible to compass all this , while she remained where she was . 
He wished to be cautious about pressing too closely her claims on his mother , as it would increase the burdened one he so anxiously wished to relieve . 
He cheered her on with the hope of returning with his family , when he recovered sufficiently . 
Nig seemed awakened to new hopes and aspirations , and realized a longing for the future , hitherto unknown . 
To complete Nig's enjoyment , Jack arrived unexpectedly . 
His greeting was as hearty to herself as to any of the family . 
Where are your curls , Fra ? asked Jack , after the usual salutation . 
Your mother cut them off . 
Thought you were getting handsome , did she ? Same old story , is it knocks and bumps ? Better times coming never fear , Nig . 
Jack was pleased with James's innovations of table discipline , and would often tarry in the dining room , to see Nig in her new place at the family table . 
Put that plate down you shall not have a clean one eat from mine , continued she . 
Nig never looked toward her mistress during the process . 
She had Jack near she did not fear her now . 
Insulted , full of rage , Mrs. Bellmont rushed to her husband , and commanded him to notice this insult to whip that child if he would not do it , James ought . 
James came to hear the kitchen version of the affair . 
Jack was boiling over with laughter . 
James sought his mother told her he would not excuse or palliate Nig's impudence but she should not be whipped or be punished at all . 
You have not treated her , mother , so as to gain her love she is only exhibiting your remissness in this matter . 
She only smothered her resentment until a convenient opportunity offered . 
James found her , upon his return , sobbing but fearful of revenge , she dared not answer his queries . 
He guessed their cause , and longed for returning health to take her under his pro tection . 
What are our joys but dreams ? and what our hopes But goodly shadows in the summer cloud ? H. K. W. JAMES did not improve as was hoped . 
Month after month passed away , and brought no pros pect of returning health . 
In these confidential interviews , Frado was never omitted . 
They would discuss the prevalent opinion of the public , that people of color are really inferior incapable of cultiva tion and refinement . 
They would glance at the qualities of Nig , which promised so much if rightly directed . 
I wish you would take her , James , when you are well , home with YOU , said Aunt Abby , in one of these seasons . 
Just what I am longing to do , Aunt Abby . 
Susan is just of my mind , and we intend to take her I have been wishing to do so for years . 
She seems much affected by what she hears at the evening meetings , and asks me many questions on serious things seems to love to read the Bible I feel hopes of her . 
I hope she IS thoughtful no one has a kinder heart , one capable of loving more devotedly . 
But to think how prejudiced the world are to wards her people that she must be reared in such ignorance as to drown all the finer feelings . 
When I think of what she might be , of what she will be , I feel like grasping time till opinions change , and thousands like her rise into a noble freedom . 
I have seen Frado's grief , because she is black , amount to agony . 
It makes me sick to recall these scenes . 
In the summer I was walking near the barn , and as I stood I heard sobs . 
And I feel sick who cares for that ? Work as long as I can stand , and then fall down and lay there till I can get up . 
She started on her mission I called her to me , and told her she need not go , the hay was doing well . 
Having spoken these words of comfort , I rose with the resolution that if I recovered my health I would take her home with me , whether mother was willing or not . 
I don't know what your mother would do without her still , I wish she was away . 
Susan now came for her long absent husband , and they returned home to their room . 
The month of November was one of great anxiety on James's account . 
He was rapidly wasting away . 
A celebrated physician was called , and per formed a surgical operation , as a last means . 
Should this fail , there was no hope . 
Of course he was confined wholly to his room , mostly to his bed . 
With all his bodily suffering , all his anxiety for his family , whom he might not live to protect , he did not forget Frado . 
He shielded her from many beatings , and every day imparted religious instructions . 
No one , but his wife , could move him so easily as Frado so that in addition to her daily toil she was often deprived of her rest at night . 
Yet she insisted on being called she wished to show her love for one who had been such a friend to her . 
Her anxiety and grief increased as the probabilities of his recovery became doubtful . 
She was very careful never to shed tears on his account , in her presence , afterwards . 
Other cares engross me , and my tired soul with emulative haste , Looks to its God . 
THE brother associated with James in business , in Baltimore , was sent for to confer with one who might never be able to see him there . 
James began to speak of life as closing of heaven , as of a place in immediate prospect of aspirations , which waited for fruition in glory . 
His brother , Lewis by name , was an especial fa vorite of sister Mary more like her , in disposi tion and preferences than James or Jack . 
How gladly he would have extended healing aid . 
But , alas ! it was not in his power so , after listening to his wishes and arrangements for his family and business , he decided to return home . 
Anxious for company home , he persuaded his father and mother to permit Mary to attend him . 
She was not at all needed in the sick room she did not choose to be useful in the kitchen , and then she was fully determined to go . 
So all the trunks were assembled and cram med with the best selections from the wardrobe of herself and mother , where the last mentioned articles could be appropriated . 
Nig was never so helpful before , Mary re marked , and wondered what had induced such a change in place of former sullenness . 
Was it strange if she were officious , with such relief in prospect ? The parting from the sick brother was tearful and sad . 
James prayed in their presence for their renewal in holiness and urged their im mediate attention to eternal realities , and gained a promise that Susan and Charlie should share their kindest regards . 
Well , she's gone , gone , Aunt Abby . 
I hope she'll never come back again . 
No ! no ! Frado , that's wrong ! you would be wishing her dead that won't do . 
Well , I'll bet she'll never come back again somehow , I feel as though she wouldn't . 
She is James's sister , remonstrated Aunt Abby . 
So is our cross sheep just as much , that I ducked in the river I'd like to try my hand at curing HER too . 
But you forget what our good minister told us last week , about doing good to those that hate us . 
Nig went as she was told , and her clear voice was heard as she went , singing in joyous notes the relief she felt at the removal of one of her tormentors . 
Day by day the quiet of the sick man's room was increased . 
He was helpless and nervous and often wished change of position , thereby hoping to gain momentary relief . 
The calls upon Frado were consequently more frequent , her nights less tranquil . 
Her health was im paired by lifting the sick man , and by drudgery in the kitchen . 
She was at last so much reduced as to be unable to stand erect for any great length of time . 
Of course she was longer than usual in completing the services assigned her . 
This was a subject of complaint to Mrs. Bellmont and Frado endeavored to throw off all appearance of sickness in her presence . 
But it was increasing upon her , and she could no longer hide her indisposition . 
Her mistress entered one day , and finding her seated , com manded her to go to work . 
I am sick , replied Frado , rising and walking slowly to her unfin ished task , and cannot stand long , I feel so bad . 
Angry that she should venture a reply to her command , she suddenly inflicted a blow which lay the tottering girl prostrate on the floor . 
Frado hoped she would end her misery by whipping her to death . 
She bore it with the hope of a martyr , that her misery would soon close . 
Though her mouth was muffled , and the sounds much stifled , there was a sensible com motion , which James' quick ear detected . 
Call Frado to come here , he said faintly , I have not seen her to day . 
Susan retired with the request to the kitchen , where it was evident some brutal scene had just been enacted . 
Mrs. Bellmont replied that she had some work to do just now when that was done , she might come . 
Susan's appearance confirmed her husband's fears , and he requested his father , who sat by the bedside , to go for her . 
This was a messen ger , as James well knew , who could not be de nied and the girl entered the room , sobbing and faint with anguish . 
James called her to him , and inquired the cause of her sorrow . 
She was afraid to expose the cruel author of her misery , lest she should provoke new attacks . 
But after much entreaty , she told him all , much which had escaped his watchful ear . 
Poor James shut his eyes in silence , as if pained to forgetfulness by the re cital . 
Then turning to Susan , he asked her to take Charlie , and walk out she needed the fresh air , he said . 
And say to mother I wish Frado to sit by me till you return . 
I think you are fading , from staying so long in this sick room . 
Mr. B. also left , and Frado was thus left alone with her friend . 
Aunt Abby came in to make her daily visit , and seeing the sick coun tenance of the attendant , took her home with her to administer some cordial . 
James insisted on her attend ing religious meetings in the vicinity with Aunt Abby . 
Frado , under the instructions of Aunt Abby and the minister , became a believer in a future existence one of happiness or misery . 
As James approached that blessed world , she felt a strong desire to follow , and be with one who was such a dear , kind friend to her . 
Come to Christ , he urged , all , young or old , white or black , bond or free , come all to Christ for pardon repent , believe . 
This was the message she longed to hear it seemed to be spoken for her . 
But he had told them to repent what was that ? she asked . 
She knew she was unfit for any heaven , made for whites or blacks . 
She would gladly repent , or do anything which would admit her to share the abode of James . 
Her anxiety increased her countenance bore marks of solicitude unseen before and though she said nothing of her inward contest , they all observed a change . 
James and Aunt Abby hoped it was the springing of good seed sown by the Spirit of God . 
Her tearful attention at the last meeting encouraged his aunt to hope that her mind was awakened , her conscience aroused . 
Aunt Abby noticed that she was particularly engaged in reading the Bible and this strengthened her conviction that a heavenly Messenger was striv ing with her . 
The neighbors dropped in to in quire after the sick , and also if Frado was SERIOUS ? They noticed she seemed very thoughtful and tearful at the meetings . 
Mrs. Reed was very inquisitive but Mrs. Bellmont saw no ap pearance of change for the better . 
She did not feel responsible for her spiritual culture , and hardly believed she had a soul . 
Nig was in truth suffering much her feelings were very intense on any subject , when once aroused . 
Mrs. Bellmont found her one day quietly reading her Bible . 
Amazed and half crediting the reports of officious neighbors , she felt it was time to interfere . 
Here she was , reading and shedding tears over the Bible . 
She ordered her to put up the book , and go to work , and not be snivelling about the house , or stop to read again . 
But there was one little spot seldom penetra ted by her mistress' watchful eye this was her room , uninviting and comfortless but to her self a safe retreat . 
Mrs. Bellmont , as we before said , did not trou ble herself about the future destiny of her ser vant . 
If she did what she desired for HER bene fit , it was all the responsibility she acknowledged . 
But she seemed to have great aversion to the notice Nig would attract should she become pious . 
How could she meet this case ? She re solved to make her complaint to John . 
Strange , when she was always foiled in this direction , she should resort to him . 
It was time something was done she had begun to read the Bible openly . 
The night of this discovery , as they were retiring , Mrs. Bellmont introduced the conver sation , by saying I want your attention to what I am going to say . 
So now you see what good comes of sending her to school . 
If she should get converted she would have to go to meeting at least , as long as James lives . 
I wish he had not such queer notions about her . 
It seems to trouble him to know he must die and leave her . 
He says if he should get well he would take her home with him , or educate her here . 
O , John ! do you think he is in his right mind ? Yes , yes she is slender . 
Yes , YES ! she repeated sarcastically , you know these niggers are just like black snakes you CAN'T kill them . 
If she wasn't tough she would have been killed long ago . 
There was never one of my girls could do half the work . 
Did they ever try ? interposed her husband . 
I think she can do more than all of them together . 
What a man ! said she , peevishly . 
But I want to know what is going to be done with her about getting pious ? Let her do just as she has a mind to . 
If it is a comfort to her , let her enjoy the privilege of being good . 
I should think YOU were crazy , sure . 
It's of no use talking to you or James . 
If you should go on as you would like , it would not be six months before she would be leaving me and that won't do . 
Just think how much profit she was to us last summer . 
We had no work hired out she did the work of two girls And got the whippings for two with it ! remarked Mr. Bellmont . 
I'll beat the money out of her , if I can't get her worth any other way , retorted Mrs. B. sharply . 
While this scene was passing , Frado was trying to utter the prayer of the publican , God be merciful to me a sinner . 
We have now But a small portion of what men call time , To hold communion . 
SPRING opened , and James , instead of rallying , as was hoped , grew worse daily . 
Aunt Abby and Frado were the constant allies of Susan . 
Mrs. Bellmont dared not lift him . 
She was not strong enough , she said . 
It was very offensive to Mrs. B. to have Nab about James so much . 
She had thrown out many a hint to detain her from so often visiting the sick room but Aunt Abby was too well accustomed to her ways to mind them . 
After various unsuccessful efforts , she resorted to the following expedient . 
As she heard her cross the entry below , to ascend the stairs , she slipped out and held the latch of the door which led into the upper entry . 
James does not want to see you , or any one else , she said . 
Aunt Abby hesitated , and returned slowly to her own room wondering if it were really James' wish not to see her . 
She did not ven ture again that day , but still felt disturbed and anxious about him . 
She inquired of Frado , and learned that he was no worse . 
Your mother said James did not wish to see me , and I was afraid I tired him . 
Why , aunt , that is a mistake , I KNOW . 
What could mother mean ? asked Susan . 
The next time she went to the sitting room she asked her mother , Why does not Aunt Abby visit James as she has done ? Where is she ? At home . 
I hope that she will stay there , was the answer . 
I should think she would come in and see James , continued Susan . 
I told her he did not want to see her , and to stay out . 
You need make no stir about it remem ber she added , with one of her fiery glances . 
It was a day or two before James spoke of her absence . 
The family were at dinner , and Frado was watching beside him . 
He inquired the cause of her absence , and SHE told him all . 
After the family returned he sent his wife for her . 
When she entered , he took her hand , and said , Come to me often , Aunt . 
Come any time , I am always glad to see you . 
I have but a little longer to be with you , come often , Aunt . 
Now please help lift me up , and see if I can rest a little . 
Frado was called in , and Susan and Mrs. B. all attempted Mrs. B. was too weak she did not feel able to lift so much . 
So the three suc ceeded in relieving the sufferer . 
Frado returned to her work . 
Seizing Frado , she said she would cure her of tale bearing , and , placing the wedge of wood between her teeth , she beat her cruelly with the raw hide . 
Aunt Abby heard the blows , and came to see if she could hinder them . 
Surprised at her sudden appearance , Mrs. B. suddenly stopped , but forbade her removing the wood till she gave her permission , and com manded Nab to go home . 
Their conversation we will omit suffice it to say , a storm raged which required many days to exhaust its strength . 
Frado was becoming seriously ill . 
She had no relish for food , and was constantly over worked , and then she had such solicitude about the future . 
She wished to pray for pardon . 
She did try to pray . 
Her mistress had told her it would do no good for her to attempt prayer prayer was for whites , not for blacks . 
If she minded her mistress , and did what she com manded , it was all that was required of her . 
This did not satisfy her , or appease her long ings . 
She knew her instructions did not har monize with those of the man of God or Aunt Abby's . 
She said nothing on the subject , unless asked . 
It was evident to all her mind was deeply exercised . 
James longed to speak with her alone on the subject . 
An opportunity presented soon , while the family were at tea . 
It was usual to sum mon Aunt Abby to keep company with her , as his death was expected hourly . 
Come here , and sit by me I wish to talk with you . 
It is the last time , perhaps , I shall EVER talk with you . 
You are old enough to remember my dying words and profit by them . 
I have been sick a long time I shall die pretty soon . 
My Heavenly Father is calling me home . 
Had it been his will to let me live I should take you to live with me but , as it is , I shall go and leave you . 
There will never be any sickness or sorrow there . 
Frado , overcome with grief , sobbed , and buried her face in his pillow . 
She expected he would die but to hear him speak of his departure him self was unexpected . 
Bid me good bye , Frado . 
She kissed him , and sank on her knees by his bedside his hand rested on her head his eyes were closed his lips moved in prayer for this disconsolate child . 
His wife entered , and interpreting the scene , gave him some restoratives , and withdrew for a short time . 
It was a great effort for Frado to cease sobbing but she dared not be seen below in tears so she choked her grief , and descended to her usual toil . 
Susan perceived a change in her husband . 
She felt that death was near . 
He tenderly looked on her , and said , Susan , my wife , our farewells are all spoken . 
I feel prepared to go . 
I shall meet you in heaven . 
Death is indeed creeping fast upon me . 
Let me see them all once more . 
Teach Charlie the way to heaven lead him up as you come . 
He could not talk as he wished to them . 
He seemed to sink into unconsciousness . 
They watched him for hours . 
At midnight the messenger came . 
They called Frado to see his last struggle . 
Sinking on her knees at the foot of his bed , she buried her face in the clothes , and wept like one inconsolable . 
They led her from the room . 
She seemed to be too much absorbed to know it was necessary for her to leave . 
Next day she would steal into the chamber as often as she could , to weep over his remains , and ponder his last words to her . 
She moved about the house like an automaton . 
Every duty performed but an abstraction from all , which shewed her thoughts were busied else where . 
Susan wished her to attend his burial as one of the family . 
Lewis and Mary and Jack it was not thought best to send for , as the season would not allow them time for the journey . 
Susan provided her with a dress for the occasion , which was her first intimation that she would be allowed to mingle her grief with others . 
The day of the burial she was attired in her mourning dress but Susan , in her grief , had forgotten a bonnet . 
She hastily ransacked the closets , and found one of Mary's , trimmed with bright pink ribbon . 
It was too late to change the ribbon , and she was unwilling to leave Frado at home she knew it would be the wish of James she should go with her . 
So tying it on , she said , Never mind , Frado , you shall see where our dear James is buried . 
She had now a sorrow with which such were small in comparison . 
As she saw his body lowered in the grave she wished to share it but she was not fit to die . 
She could not go where he was if she did . 
She did not love God she did not serve him or know how to . 
She wished she could see God , and ask him for eternal life . 
Aunt Abby had taught her that He was ever looking upon her . 
Oh , if she could see him , or hear him speak words of forgiveness . 
Her anxiety increased her health seemed impaired , and she felt constrained to go to Aunt Abby and tell her all about her conflicts . 
Mrs. Bellmont would occasionally give in struction , though far different . 
She would tell her she could not go where James was she need not try . 
If she should get to heaven at all , she would never be as high up as he . 
Should she want to go there if she could not see him ? Mrs. B. seldom mentioned her bereavement , unless in such allusion to Frado . 
She donned her weeds from custom kept close her crape veil for so many Sabbaths , and abated nothing of her characteristic harshness . 
The clergyman called to minister consolation to the afflicted widow and mother . 
Such resig nation expressed , as might have graced the trial of the holiest . 
Susan , like a mute sufferer , bared her soul to his sympathy and godly counsel , but only replied to his questions in short syllables . 
When he offered prayer , Frado stole to the door that she might hear of the heavenly bliss of one who was her friend on earth . 
The prayer caused profuse weeping , as any tender reminder of the heaven born was sure to . 
When the good man's voice ceased , she returned to her toil , carefully removing all trace of sorrow . 
Her mistress soon followed , irritated by Nab's impudence in presenting her self unasked in the parlor , and upbraided her with indolence , and bade her apply herself more diligently . 
This was an act of disobedience . 
Her mistress grasping her raw hide , caused a longer flow of tears , and wounded a spirit that was craving healing mercies . 
Neath the billows of the ocean , Hidden treasures wait the hand , That again to light shall raise them With the diver's magic wand . 
THE family , gathered by James' decease , re turned to their homes . 
Susan and Charles returned to Baltimore . 
Letters were received from the absent , expressing their sympathy and grief . 
The father bowed like a bruised reed , under the loss of his beloved son . 
He acknowledged his too ready acquiescence with Mrs. B. , in permit ting Frado to be deprived of her only religious privileges for weeks together . 
He accordingly asked his sister to take her to meeting once more , which she was ready at once to do . 
The first opportunity they once more at tended meeting together . 
The minister con versed faithfully with every person present . 
He was surprised to find the little colored girl so solicitous , and kindly directed her to the flowing fountain where she might wash and be clean . 
He inquired of the origin of her anxiety , of her progress up to this time , and endeavored to make Christ , instead of James , the attraction of Heaven . 
He invited her to come to his house , to speak freely her mind to him , to pray much , to read her Bible often . 
The neighbors , who were at meeting , among them Mrs. Reed , discussed the opinions Mrs. Bellmont would express on the subject . 
Mrs. Reed called and informed Mrs. B. that her col ored girl related her experience the other night at the meeting . 
Why , you know she is serious , don't you ? She told the minister about it . 
Mrs. B. made no reply , but changed the subject adroitly . 
Frado pondered her mistress was a professor of religion was SHE going to heaven ? then she did not wish to go . 
If she should be near James , even , she could not be happy with those fiery eyes watching her ascending path . 
She resolved to give over all thought of the future world , and strove daily to put her anxiety far from her . 
Mr. Bellmont found himself unable to do what James or Jack could accomplish for her . 
You are look ing sick , he added , you cannot endure beating as you once could . 
It was not long before an opportunity offered of profiting by his advice . 
By this unexpected demonstration , her mis tress , in amazement , dropped her weapon , desist ing from her purpose of chastisement . 
Frado walked towards the house , her mistress following with the wood she herself was sent after . 
She did not know , before , that she had a power to ward off assaults . 
Her triumph in seeing her enter the door with HER burden , repaid her for much of her former suffering . 
It was characteristic of Mrs. B. never to rise in her majesty , unless she was sure she should be victorious . 
This affair never met with an after clap , like many others . 
The usual amount of scolding , but fewer whippings . 
Mrs. B. longed once more for Mary's return , who had been absent over a year and she wrote imperatively for her to come quickly to her . 
A letter came in reply , announcing that she would comply as soon as she was sufficiently recovered from an illness which detained her . 
No serious apprehensions were cherished by either parent , who constantly looked for notice of her arrival , by mail . 
Another letter brought tidings that Mary was seriously ill her mother's presence was solicited . 
Before she reached her destination , a letter came to the parents announcing her death . 
Mary they've just had a letter . 
It seemed a thanksgiving to Frado . 
S'posen she goes to hell , she'll be as black as I am . 
Wouldn't mistress be mad to see her a nigger ! and others of a similar stamp , not at all acceptable to the pious , sympathetic dame but she could not evade them . 
The family returned from their sorrowful journey , leaving the dead behind . 
There was , indeed , a season of quiet grief it was the lull of the fiery elements . 
A few weeks revived the former tempests , and so at variance did they seem with chastisement sanctified , that Frado felt them to be unbear able . 
But where ? Who would take her ? Mrs. B. had always repre sented her ugly . 
Perhaps every one thought her so . 
Then no one would take her . 
She was black , no one would love her . 
She might have to return , and then she would be more in her mistress' power than ever . 
She remembered her victory at the wood pile . 
She had learned how to conquer she would not abuse the power while Mr. Bellmont was at home . 
But had she not better run away ? Where ? She had never been from the place far enough to decide what course to take . 
She resolved to speak to Aunt Abby . 
SHE mapped the dangers of her course , her liability to fail in finding so good friends as John and herself . 
Frado's mind was busy for days and nights . 
She contem plated administering poison to her mistress , to rid herself and the house of so detestable a plague . 
But she was restrained by an overruling Prov idence and finally decided to stay contentedly through her period of service , which would ex pire when she was eighteen years of age . 
In a few months Jane returned home with her family , to relieve her parents , upon whom years and affliction had left the marks of age . 
The years intervening since she had left her home , had , in some degree , softened the opposition to her unsanctioned marriage with George . 
The more Mrs. B. had about her , the more ener getic seemed her directing capabilities , and her fault finding propensities . 
They followed Jack to the West . 
Thus vanished all hopes of sym pathy or relief from this source to Frado . 
There seemed no one capable of enduring the oppres sions of the house but her . 
She turned to the darkness of the future with the determination previously formed , to remain until she should be eighteen . 
Crucified the hopes that cheered me , All that to the earth endeared me Love of wealth and fame and power , Love , all have been crucified . 
C. E. DARKNESS before day . 
Jane left , but Jack was now to come again . 
After Mary's death he vis ited home , leaving a wife behind . 
An orphan whose home was with a relative , gentle , loving , the true mate of kind , generous Jack . 
His mother was a stranger to her , of course , and had perfect right to interrogate Is she good looking , Jack ? asked his mother . 
Looks well to me , was the laconic reply . 
Was her FATHER rich ? Not worth a copper , as I know of I never asked him , answered Jack . 
Hadn't she any property ? What did you marry her for , asked his mother . 
Oh , she's WORTH A MILLION dollars , mother , though not a cent of it is in money . 
Jack ! what do you want to bring such a poor being into the family , for ? You'd better stay here , at home , and let your wife go . 
Why couldn't you try to do better , and not disgrace your parents ? Don't judge , till you see her , was Jack's reply , and immediately changed the subject . 
It was no recommendation to his mother , and she did not feel prepared to welcome her cor dially now he was to come with his wife . 
He was indignant at his mother's advice to desert her . 
It rankled bitterly in his soul , the bare suggestion . 
He had more to bring . 
He now came with a child also . 
He decided to leave the West , but not his family . 
Upon their arrival , Mrs. B. extended a cold welcome to her new daughter , eyeing her dress with closest scrutiny . 
Poverty was to her a disgrace , and she could not associate with any thus dishonored . 
This coldness was felt by Jack's worthy wife , who only strove the harder to recommend herself by her obliging , winning ways . 
Mrs. B. could never let Jack be with her alone without complaining of this or that de ficiency in his wife . 
He cared not so long as the complaints were piercing his own ears . 
He would not have Jenny disquieted . 
He passed his time in seek ing employment . 
A letter came from his brother Lewis , then at the South , soliciting his services . 
Leaving his wife , he repaired thither . 
Mrs. B. felt that great restraint was removed , that Jenny was more in her own power . 
She wished to make her feel her inferiority to relieve Jack of his burden if he would not do it himself . 
She watched her incessantly , to catch at some act of Jenny's which might be construed into conjugal unfaithfulness . 
Near by were a family of cousins , one a young man of Jack's age , who , from love to his cousin , proffered all needful courtesy to his stranger relative . 
Soon news reached Jack that Jenny was deserting her covenant vows , and had formed an illegal intimacy with his cousin . 
Meantime Jenny was told by her mother in law that Jack did not marry her untrammelled . 
He had another love whom he would be glad , even now , if he could , to marry . 
It was very doubtful if he ever came for her . 
The neighbors saw her fade in health and spirits they found letters never reached their destination when sent by either . 
Lewis arrived with the joyful news that he had come to take Jenny home with him . 
What a relief to her to be freed from the gnawing taunts of her adversary . 
Jenny retired to prepare for the journey , and Mrs. B. and Henry had a long interview . 
Disheartened , she rushed to her room , and , after relief from weeping , wrote to Jack to come to have pity on her , and take her to him . 
Susan and her child succeeded Jenny as vis itors . 
Frado had merged into womanhood , and , retaining what she had learned , in spite of the few privileges enjoyed formerly , was striving to enrich her mind . 
Her school books were her constant companions , and every leisure moment was applied to them . 
Susan was delighted to witness her progress , and some little book from her was a reward sufficient for any task im posed , however difficult . 
She had her book always fastened open near her , where she could glance from toil to soul refreshment . 
The approaching spring would close the term of years which Mrs. B. claimed as the period of her servitude . 
Often as she passed the way marks of former years did she pause to ponder on her situation , and wonder if she COULD succeed in providing for her own wants . 
Her health was delicate , yet she resolved to try . 
Soon she counted the time by days which should release her . 
Mrs. B. felt that she could not well spare one who could so well adapt her self to all departments man , boy , housekeeper , domestic , etc . 
Poor little Fido ! She shed more tears over him than over all beside . 
The morning for departure dawned . 
Frado engaged to work for a family a mile distant . 
Mrs. Bellmont dismissed her with the assurance that she would soon wish herself back again , and a present of a silver half dollar . 
Her wardrobe consisted of one decent dress , without any superfluous accompaniments . 
A Bible from Susan she felt was her greatest treasure . 
Now was she alone in the world . 
The past year had been one of suffering resulting from a fall , which had left her lame . 
The first summer passed pleasantly , and the wages earned were expended in garments neces sary for health and cleanliness . 
Though feeble , she was well satisfied with her progress . 
But her failing health was a cloud no kindly human hand could dissipate . 
A little light work was all she could accomplish . 
A clergy man , whose family was small , sought her , and she was removed there . 
Her engagement with Mrs. Moore finished in the fall . 
Frado was anxious to keep up her reputation for efficiency , and often pressed far beyond prudence . 
In the winter she entirely gave up work , and confessed herself thoroughly sick . 
Such dark forebodings as visited her as she lay , solitary and sad , no moans or sighs could relieve . 
The family physician pronounced her case one of doubtful issue . 
Frado hoped it was final . 
Then came the family consultation . 
What is to be done with her , asked Mrs. B. , after she is moved there with Nab ? Send for the Dr . 
, your brother , Mr. B. re plied . 
To night ! and for her ! Wait till morning , she continued . 
She has waited too long now I think some thing should be done soon . 
I doubt if she is much sick , sharply inter rupted Mrs. B. Well , we'll see what our brother thinks . 
You're sick , very sick , he said , quickly , after a moment's pause . 
Take good care of her , Abby , or she'll never get well . 
Yes , it was at Mrs. Moore's , said Mrs. B. , all this was done . 
She did but little the latter part of the time she was here . 
It was commenced longer ago than last sum mer . 
Take good care of her she may never get well , remarked the Dr . 
We sha'n't pay you for doctoring her you may look to the town for that , sir , said Mrs. B. , and abruptly left the room . 
Oh dear ! oh dear ! exclaimed Frado , and buried her face in the pillow . 
A few kind words of consolation , and she was once more alone in the darkness which envel oped her previous days . 
Yet she felt sure they owed her a shelter and attention , when disabled , and she resolved to feel patient , and remain till she could help herself . 
Mrs. B. would not at tend her , nor permit her domestic to stay with her at all . 
Aunt Abby was her sole comforter . 
Aunt Abby's nursing had the desired effect , and she slowly improved . 
As soon as she was able to be moved , the kind Mrs. Moore took her to her home again , and completed what Aunt Abby had so well commenced . 
Not that she was well , or ever would be but she had recovered so far as rendered it hopeful she might provide for her own wants . 
What seemed so light and easy to others , was too much for Frado and it became necessary to ask once more where the sick should find an asylum . 
All felt that the place where her declining health began , should be the place of relief so they applied once more for a shelter . 
One only resource the public must pay the expense . 
who had principle enough to be willing to earn the money a charitable public disburses . 
Three years of weary sickness wasted her , without extinguishing a life apparently so fee ble . 
Two years had these maidens watched and cared for her , and they began to weary , and finally to request the authorities to remove her . 
Mrs. Hoggs was a lover of gold and silver , and she asked the favor of filling her coffers by caring for the sick . 
The removal caused severe sick ness . 
By being bolstered in the bed , after a time she could use her hands , and often would ask for sewing to beguile the tedium . 
She had become very expert with her needle the first year of her release from Mrs. B. , and she had forgotten none of her skill . 
Mrs. H. praised her , and as she im proved in health , was anxious to employ her . 
She told her she could in this way replace her clothes , and as her board would be paid for , she would thus gain something . 
Many times her hands wrought when her body was in pain but the hope that she might yet help herself , impelled her on . 
That she was , in truth , able to get up and go to work . 
This brought on a severe sickness of two weeks , when Mrs. Moore again sought her , and took her to her home . 
But she felt humanity required her to give a shelter to one she knew to be worthy of a hospit able reception . 
Here she remained till sufficiently restored to sew again . 
Then came the old resolution to take care of herself , to cast off the unpleasant chari ties of the public . 
She learned that in some towns in Massachu setts , girls make straw bonnets that it was easy and profitable . 
But how should SHE , black , feeble and poor , find any one to teach her . 
But God prepares the way , when human agencies see no path . 
She felt herself capable of elevation she felt that this book information supplied an undefined dissatisfaction she had long felt , but could not express . 
Every leisure moment was carefully applied to self improve ment , and a devout and Christian exterior in vited confidence from the villagers . 
Thus she passed months of quiet , growing in the confi dence of her neighbors and new found friends . 
THE WINDING UP OF THE MATTER . 
Nothing new under the sun . 
He never spoke of his enslavement to her when alone , but she felt that , like her own oppression , it was painful to disturb oftener than was needful . 
He was a fine , straight negro , whose back showed no marks of the lash , erect as if it never crouched beneath a burden . 
There was a silent sympathy which Frado felt attracted her , and she opened her heart to the presence of love that arbitrary and inexorable tyrant . 
She removed to Singleton , her former resi dence , and there was married . 
Here were Fra do's first feelings of trust and repose on human arm . 
She realized , for the first time , the relief of looking to another for comfortable support . 
Occasionally he would leave her to lecture . 
Those tours were prolonged often to weeks . 
Of course he had little spare money . 
Frado was again feeling her self dependence , and was at last compelled to resort alone to that . 
Samuel was kind to her when at home , but made no pro vision for his absence , which was at last unprece dented . 
He left her to her fate embarked at sea , with the disclosure that he had never seen the South , and that his illiterate harangues were humbugs for hungry abolitionists . 
Once more alone ! Yet not alone . 
A still newer compan ionship would soon force itself upon her . 
No one wanted her with such prospects . 
Herself was burden enough who would have an addi tional one ? The horrors of her condition nearly prostrated her , and she was again thrown upon the public for sustenance . 
Then followed the birth of her child . 
The long absent Samuel unexpectedly returned , and rescued her from charity . 
Recov ering from her expected illness , she once more commenced toil for herself and child , in a room obtained of a poor woman , but with better for tune . 
One so well known would not be wholly neglected . 
At last Samuel's business became very engrossing , and after long desertion , news reached his family that he had become a victim of yellow fever , in New Orleans . 
So much toil as was necessary to sustain Fra do , was more than she could endure . 
This afforded her better mainten ance than she had yet found . 
She passed into the various towns of the State she lived in , then into Massachusetts . 
Strange were some of her adventures . 
Watched by kidnappers , maltreated by professed abolitionists , who didn't want slaves at the South , nor niggers in their own houses , North . 
This proved a more agreeable , and an easier way of sustenance . 
And thus , to the present time , may you see her busily employed in preparing her merchan dise then sallying forth to encounter many frowns , but some kind friends and purchasers . 
Nothing turns her from her steadfast purpose of elevating herself . 
Reposing on God , she has thus far journeyed securely . 
Still an invalid , she asks your sympathy , gentle reader . 
Refuse not , because some part of her history is unknown , save by the Omniscient God . 
Enough has been unrolled to demand your sympathy and aid . 
Do you ask the destiny of those connected with her EARLY history ? A few years only have elapsed since Mr. and Mrs. B. passed into another world . 
Only a few months since , Aunt Abby entered heaven . 
Jack and his wife rest in heaven , disturbed by no intruders and Susan and her child are yet with the living . 
Jane has silver locks in place of auburn tresses , but she has the early love of Henry still , and has never regretted her exchange of lovers . 
Frado has passed from their memories , as Joseph from the butler's , but she will never cease to track them till beyond mortal vision . 
TRUTH is stranger than fiction and whoever reads the narrative of Alfrado , will find the assertion verified . 
About eight years ago I became acquainted with the author of this book , and I feel it a privilege to speak a few words in her behalf . 
Through the instrumentality of an itinerant colored lecturer , she was brought to W , Mass . 
On this account Mrs. W. gave her a room joining her own chamber , where she could hear her faintest call . 
What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits ? Months passed on , and she was HAPPY truly happy . 
Her health began to improve under the genial sunshine in which she lived , and she even looked forward with HOPE joyful hope to the future . 
But , alas , it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps . 
Young , well formed and very handsome , he said he had been a HOUSE servant , which seemed to account in some measure for his gentlemanly manners and pleasing address . 
The meeting was entirely accidental but it was a sad occurrence for poor Alfrado , as her own sequel tells . 
Suffice it to say , an acquaintance and attachment was formed , which , in due time , resulted in marriage . 
In a few days she left W , and ALL her home comforts , and took up her abode in New Hamp shire . 
For a while everything went on well , and she dreamed not of danger but in an evil hour he left his young and trusting wife , and embarked for sea . 
She knew nothing of all this , and waited for his return . 
But she waited in vain . 
Days passed , weeks passed , and he came not then her heart failed her . 
She felt herself deserted at a time , when , of all others , she most needed the care and soothing attentions of a devoted husband . 
For a time she tried to sustain HERSELF , but this was impossible . 
She had friends , but they were mostly of that class who are poor in the things of earth , but rich in faith . 
The charity on which she depended failed at last , and there was nothing to save her from the County House GO SHE MUST . 
My beautiful little Bible was laid aside , as a place nearer my heart was reserved for that . 
I need not tell you I slept not a moment that night . 
My home , my peaceful , quiet home with you , was before me . 
But I cannot go on , for tears blind me . 
For a description of the morning , and of the scant breakfast , I must wait until another time . 
For miles I spoke not a word . 
Then the silence would be broken by the driver uttering some sort of word the horse seemed to understand for he invariably quickened his pace . 
And so , just before nightfall , we halted at the institution , prepared for the HOMELESS . 
With cold civility the matron received me , and bade one of the inmates shew me my room . 
She did so and I followed up two flights of stairs . 
I crept as I was able and when she said , 'Go in there , I obeyed , asking for my trunk , which was soon placed by me . 
My room was furnished some like the 'prophet's chamber , except there was no 'candlestick so when I could creep down I begged for a light , and it was granted . 
Then I flung myself on the bed and cried , until I could cry no longer . 
I rose up and tried to pray the Saviour seemed near . 
I opened my precious little Bible , and the first verse that caught my eye was 'I am poor and needy , yet the Lord thinketh upon me . 
O , my mother , could I tell you the comfort this was to me . 
When my Redeemer dwelt below , He chose a lowly lot He came unto his own , but lo ! His own received him not . 
Oft was the mountain his abode , The cold , cold earth his bed The midnight moon shone softly down On his unsheltered head . 
But MY head WAS SHELTERED , and I tried to feel thankful . 
Two or three letters were received after this by her friends in W , and then all was silent . 
No one of us knew whether she still lived or had gone to her home on high . 
But again he left her as before sud denly and unexpectedly , and she saw him no more . 
Her efforts were again successful in a measure in securing a meagre main tenance for a time but her struggles with poverty and sickness were severe . 
At length , a door of hope was opened . 
A kind gentleman and lady took her little boy into their own family , and provided everything necessary for his good and all this with out the hope of remuneration . 
But let them know , they shall be recompensed at the resurrection of the just . 
God is not unmindful of this work , this labor of love . 
As for the afflicted mother , she too has been remembered . 
The heart of a stranger was moved with compassion , and bestowed a recipe upon her for restoring gray hair to its former color . 
I will only add in conclusion , a few lines , calculated to comfort and strengthen this sorrowful , homeless one . 
I will help thee , saith the Lord . 
I will help thee , promise kind Made by our High Priest above Soothing to the troubled mind , Full of tenderness and love . 
I will help thee when the storm Gathers dark on every side Safely from impending harm , In my sheltering bosom hide . 
I will help thee , weary saint , Cast thy burdens ALL ON ME Oh , how cans't thou tire or faint , While my arm encircles thee . 
I have pitied every tear , Heard and COUNTED every sigh Ever lend a gracious ear To thy supplicating cry . 
There are thy robes and glittering crown , Outshining yonder sun Soon shalt thou lay the body down , And put those glories on . 
Long has thy golden lyre been strung , Which angels cannot move No song to this is ever sung , But bleeding , dying Love . 
The writer of this book has seemed to be a child of misfortune . 
Early in life she was deprived of her parents , and all those endearing associations to which childhood clings . 
and they likewise ruined her health by hard work , both in the field and house . 
She was in deed a slave , in every sense of the word and a lonely one , too . 
She has never enjoyed any degree of comfortable health since she was eighteen years of age , and a great deal of the time has been confined to her room and bed . 
She is now trying to write a book and I hope the public will look favorably on it , and patronize the same , for she is a worthy woman . 
He is an intelligent , smart boy , and no doubt will make a smart man , if he is rightly managed . 
Our duty is to our fellow beings , and when we let an opportunity pass , we know not what we lose . 
Therefore , let us work while the day lasts , and we shall in no wise lose our reward . 
MILFORD , JULY th , . 
Feeling a deep interest in the welfare of the writer of this book , and hoping that its circulation will be extensive , I wish to say a few words in her behalf . 
Although her complexion is a lit tle darker than my own , I esteem it a privilege to associate with her , and assist her whenever an opportunity presents itself . 
Thinking it unnecessary for me to write a long epistle , I will close by bidding her God speed . 
C. D. S. End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of Our Nig by Harriet E. Wilson joined contractions where separated , e . 
