There was no hesitation , half formed plan , vague idea , or the vaguest reverie of anything else between it and Almayer's Folly . 
The only doubt I suffered from , after the publication of Almayer's Folly , was whether I should write another line for print . 
Those days , now grown so dim , had their poignant moments . 
Neither in my mind nor in my heart had I then given up the sea . 
Almayer's Folly , had been finished and done with . 
The mood itself was gone . 
I was a victim of contrary stresses which produced a state of immobility . 
I gave myself up to indolence . 
Since it was impossible for me to face both ways I had elected to face nothing . 
The discovery of new values in life is a very chaotic experience there is a tremendous amount of jostling and confusion and a momentary feeling of darkness . 
I let my spirit float supine over that chaos . 
A phrase of Edward Garnett's is , as a matter of fact , responsible for this book . 
The first of the friends I made for myself by my pen it was but natural that he should be the recipient , at that time , of my confidences . 
he pointed out that there was no need to determine my future absolutely . 
At that time , and I may say , ever afterwards , he was always very patient and gentle with me . 
What strikes me most however in the phrase quoted above which was offered to me in a tone of detachment is not its gentleness but its effective wisdom . 
And thus a dead point in the revolution of my affairs was insidiously got over . 
The word another did it . 
This was committing myself definitely , I won't say to another life , but to another book . 
There is apparently something in my character which will not allow me to abandon for good any piece of work I have begun . 
I have laid aside many beginnings . 
For the life of me I don't see that there is the slightest exotic spirit in the conception or style of that novel . 
It is certainly the most TROPICAL of my eastern tales . 
the story itself was never very near my heart . 
It engaged my imagination much more than my affection . 
As to my feeling for Willems it was but the regard one cannot help having for one's own creation . 
The man who suggested Willems to me was not particularly interesting in himself . 
I don't know what he did with himself at night . 
He must have had a place , a hut , a palm leaf shed , some sort of hovel where he kept his razor and his change of sleeping suits . 
An air of futile mystery hung over him , something not exactly dark but obviously ugly . 
The only definite statement I could extract from anybody was that it was he who had brought the Arabs into the river . 
That must have happened many years before . 
But how did he bring them into the river ? He could hardly have done it in his arms like a lot of kittens . 
In the course of the whole evening he ventured one single remark which I didn't catch because his articulation was imperfect , as of a man who had forgotten how to speak . 
I was the only person who seemed aware of the sound . 
Presently he retired , pointedly unnoticed into the forest maybe ? Its immensity was there , within three hundred yards of the verandah , ready to swallow up anything . 
Almayer conversing with my captain did not stop talking while he glared angrily at the retreating back . 
Didn't that fellow bring the Arabs into the river ! Nevertheless Willems turned up next morning on Almayer's verandah . 
It was clear that in those days Willems lived on Almayer's charity . 
On account of the strange reluctance that everyone manifested to talk about Willems it was impossible for me to get at the rights of that transaction . 
Moreover , I was a newcomer , the youngest of the company , and , I suspect , not judged quite fit as yet for a full confidence . 
I was not much concerned about that exclusion . 
The faint suggestion of plots and mysteries pertaining to all matters touching Almayer's affairs amused me vastly . 
Almayer was obviously very much affected . 
I believe he missed Willems immensely . 
He wore an air of sinister preoccupation and talked confidentially with my captain . 
I could catch only snatches of mumbled sentences . 
Then one morning as I came along the deck to take my place at the breakfast table Almayer checked himself in his low toned discourse . 
My captain's face was perfectly impenetrable . 
Disconnected though it was , that phrase , as food for thought , was distinctly worth hearing . 
He imagined that he could go on afterwards looking at the sunshine , enjoying the shade , breathing in the perfume of flowers in the small garden before his house . 
That family's admiration was the great luxury of his life . 
It rounded and completed his existence in a perpetual assurance of unquestionable superiority . 
They were a numerous and an unclean crowd , living in ruined bamboo houses , surrounded by neglected compounds , on the outskirts of Macassar . 
He kept them at arm's length and even further off , perhaps , having no illusions as to their worth . 
They wanted much , but he could give them all they wanted without ruining himself . 
In exchange he had their silent fear , their loquacious love , their noisy veneration . 
It is a fine thing to be a providence , and to be told so on every day of one's life . 
It gives one a feeling of enormously remote superiority , and Willems revelled in it . 
His munificence had demoralized them . 
Since he descended amongst them and married Joanna they had lost the little aptitude and strength for work they might have had to put forth under the stress of extreme necessity . 
They lived now by the grace of his will . 
In another , and perhaps a lower plane , his days did not want for their less complex but more obvious pleasures . 
He liked the simple games of skill billiards also games not so simple , and calling for quite another kind of skill poker . 
Willems was a connoisseur in the drink and an adept at the game . 
Of those accomplishments he was moderately proud . 
Of the confidence reposed in him by Hudig the master he was boastfully and obtrusively proud . 
This arose from his great benevolence , and from an exalted sense of his duty to himself and the world at large . 
He experienced that irresistible impulse to impart information which is inseparable from gross ignorance . 
There is always some one thing which the ignorant man knows , and that thing is the only thing worth knowing it fills the ignorant man's universe . 
Willems knew all about himself . 
Being of a modest and diffident nature , his successes amazed , almost frightened him , and ended as he got over the succeeding shocks of surprise by making him ferociously conceited . 
He believed in his genius and in his knowledge of the world . 
Others should know of it also for their own good and for his greater glory . 
All those friendly men who slapped him on the back and greeted him noisily should have the benefit of his example . 
For that he must talk . 
He talked to them conscientiously . 
With a remark that it was getting late , and that he was a married man , he would say a patronizing good night and step out into the long , empty street . 
At that hour its white dust was like a dazzling streak of moonlight where the eye sought repose in the dimmer gleam of rare oil lamps . 
Willems walked homewards , following the line of walls overtopped by the luxuriant vegetation of the front gardens . 
The houses right and left were hidden behind the black masses of flowering shrubs . 
Willems had the street to himself . 
He would walk in the middle , his shadow gliding obsequiously before him . 
He looked down on it complacently . 
The shadow of a successful man ! He would be slightly dizzy with the cocktails and with the intoxication of his own glory . 
As he often told people , he came east fourteen years ago a cabin boy . 
His shadow must have been very small at that time he thought with a smile that he was not aware then he had anything even a shadow which he dared call his own . 
And now he was looking at the shadow of the confidential clerk of Hudig Co . 
How glorious ! How good was life for those that were on the winning side ! He had won the game of life also the game of billiards . 
He walked faster , jingling his winnings , and thinking of the white stone days that had marked the path of his existence . 
That was the way to get on . 
He disapproved of the elementary dishonesty that dips the hand in the cash box , but one could evade the laws and push the principles of trade to their furthest consequences . 
Those are the fools , the weak , the contemptible . 
The wise , the strong , the respected , have no scruples . 
Where there are scruples there can be no power . 
On that text he preached often to the young men . 
It was his doctrine , and he , himself , was a shining example of its truth . 
Night after night he went home thus , after a day of toil and pleasure , drunk with the sound of his own voice celebrating his own prosperity . 
On his thirtieth birthday he went home thus . 
He had not done himself justice over there in the hotel , he had not talked enough about himself , he had not impressed his hearers enough . 
Now he would go home and make his wife get up and listen to him . 
Why should she not get up ? and mix a cocktail for him and listen patiently . 
If he wanted he could make all the Da Souza family get up . 
However , his wife would do for to night . 
His wife ! He winced inwardly . 
A dismal woman with startled eyes and dolorously drooping mouth , that would listen to him in pained wonder and mute stillness . 
She was used to those night discourses now . 
She had rebelled once at the beginning . 
She would draw a long breath then and trail out of the room , relieved but unmoved . 
Nothing could startle her , make her scold or make her cry . 
She did not complain , she did not rebel . 
That first difference of theirs was decisive . 
Too decisive , thought Willems , discontentedly . 
It had frightened the soul out of her body apparently . 
A dismal woman ! A damn'd business altogether ! What the devil did he want to go and saddle himself . 
And he had the worship of the Da Souza tribe . 
A man of his stamp could carry off anything , do anything , aspire to anything . 
He smiled shamefacedly to himself , and , pushing his hands deep into his pockets , walked faster with a suddenly grave face . 
Behind him to the left a cigar end glowed in the gateway of Mr. Vinck's front yard . 
Leaning against one of the brick pillars , Mr. Vinck , the cashier of Hudig Co . 
, smoked the last cheroot of the evening . 
Amongst the shadows of the trimmed bushes Mrs. Vinck crunched slowly , with measured steps , the gravel of the circular path before the house . 
There's Willems going home on foot and drunk I fancy , said Mr. Vinck over his shoulder . 
I saw him jump and wave his hat . 
The crunching of the gravel stopped . 
Horrid man , said Mrs. Vinck , calmly . 
I have heard he beats his wife . 
Oh no , my dear , no , muttered absently Mr. Vinck , with a vague gesture . 
The aspect of Willems as a wife beater presented to him no interest . 
How women do misjudge ! If Willems wanted to torture his wife he would have recourse to less primitive methods . 
Mr. Vinck knew Willems well , and believed him to be very able , very smart objectionably so . 
He is becoming dangerous he knows too much . 
He will have to be got rid of , said Mr. Vinck aloud . 
But Mrs. Vinck had gone in already , and after shaking his head he threw away his cheroot and followed her slowly . 
Willems walked on homeward weaving the splendid web of his future . 
The road to greatness lay plainly before his eyes , straight and shining , without any obstacle that he could see . 
He would soon put it right again . 
But nobody would dare ! True , he was conscious of a slight deterioration . 
He had appropriated temporarily some of Hudig's money . 
But he judged himself with the indulgence that should be extended to the weaknesses of genius . 
He would make reparation and all would be as before nobody would be the loser for it , and he would go on unchecked toward the brilliant goal of his ambition . 
Hudig's partner ! Before going up the steps of his house he stood for awhile , his feet well apart , chin in hand , contemplating mentally Hudig's future partner . 
He saw him quite safe solid as the hills deep deep as an abyss discreet as the grave . 
CHAPTER TWO The sea , perhaps because of its saltness , roughens the outside but keeps sweet the kernel of its servants' soul . 
It cast a spell , it gave joy , it lulled gently into boundless faith then with quick and causeless anger it killed . 
But its cruelty was redeemed by the charm of its inscrutable mystery , by the immensity of its promise , by the supreme witchery of its possible favour . 
Strong men with childlike hearts were faithful to it , were content to live by its grace to die by its will . 
That was the sea before the time when the French mind set the Egyptian muscle in motion and produced a dismal but profitable ditch . 
Then a great pall of smoke sent out by countless steam boats was spread over the restless mirror of the Infinite . 
The hand of the engineer tore down the veil of the terrible beauty in order that greedy and faithless landlubbers might pocket dividends . 
Like all mysteries , it lived only in the hearts of its worshippers . 
The hearts changed the men changed . 
The once loving and devoted servants went out armed with fire and iron , and conquering the fear of their own hearts became a calculating crowd of cold and exacting masters . 
The sea of the past was an incomparably beautiful mistress , with inscrutable face , with cruel and promising eyes . 
Tom Lingard was a master , a lover , a servant of the sea . 
The sea took him young , fashioned him body and soul gave him his fierce aspect , his loud voice , his fearless eyes , his stupidly guileless heart . 
Generously it gave him his absurd faith in himself , his universal love of creation , his wide indulgence , his contemptuous severity , his straightforward simplicity of motive and honesty of aim . 
Having made him what he was , womanlike , the sea served him humbly and let him bask unharmed in the sunshine of its terribly uncertain favour . 
Tom Lingard grew rich on the sea and by the sea . 
He was grateful to it , with the gratitude of an honest heart . 
His greatest pride lay in his profound conviction of its faithfulness in the deep sense of his unerring knowledge of its treachery . 
The little brig Flash was the instrument of Lingard's fortune . 
He was liked for his reckless generosity , for his unswerving honesty , and at first was a little feared on account of his violent temper . 
Very soon , however , they found him out , and the word went round that Captain Tom's fury was less dangerous than many a man's smile . 
As years went on it grew apace . 
He carried the name bravely on his broad shoulders . 
He had carried it many years already when the boy Willems ran barefooted on the deck of the ship Kosmopoliet IV . 
in Samarang roads , looking with innocent eyes on the strange shore and objurgating his immediate surroundings with blasphemous lips , while his childish brain worked upon the heroic idea of running away . 
From the poop of the Flash Lingard saw in the early morning the Dutch ship get lumberingly under weigh , bound for the eastern ports . 
Very late in the evening of the same day he stood on the quay of the landing canal , ready to go on board of his brig . 
Lingard turned round quickly , and what seemed to be a very lean boy jumped back with commendable activity . 
Who are you ? Where do you spring from ? asked Lingard , in startled surprise . 
From a safe distance the boy pointed toward a cargo lighter moored to the quay . 
Been hiding there , have you ? said Lingard . 
Well , what do you want ? Speak out , confound you . 
You did not come here to scare me to death , for fun , did you ? The boy tried to explain in imperfect English , but very soon Lingard interrupted him . 
I see , he exclaimed , you ran away from the big ship that sailed this morning . 
Well , why don't you go to your countrymen here ? Ship gone only a little way to Sourabaya . 
Make me go back to the ship , explained the boy . 
Best thing for you , affirmed Lingard with conviction . 
No , retorted the boy me want stop here not want go home . 
Get money here home no good . 
This beats all my going a fishing , commented the astonished Lingard . 
Lingard looked at him in meditative silence . 
Come closer , he said at last . 
He took the boy by the chin , and turning up his face gave him a searching look . 
How old are you ? Seventeen . 
There's not much of you for seventeen . 
Are you hungry ? A little . 
Will you come with me , in that brig there ? The boy moved without a word towards the boat and scrambled into the bows . 
Knows his place , muttered Lingard to himself as he stepped heavily into the stern sheets and took up the yoke lines . 
The Malay boat crew lay back together , and the gig sprang away from the quay heading towards the brig's riding light . 
Such was the beginning of Willems' career . 
Lingard learned in half an hour all that there was of Willems' commonplace story . 
Father outdoor clerk of some ship broker in Rotterdam mother dead . 
The boy quick in learning , but idle in school . 
Then the offer of the good natured captain of Kosmopoliet IV . 
The boy was hopelessly at variance with the spirit of the sea . 
He had an instinctive contempt for the honest simplicity of that work which led to nothing he cared for . 
Lingard soon found this out . 
He offered to send him home in an English ship , but the boy begged hard to be permitted to remain . 
He wrote a beautiful hand , became soon perfect in English , was quick at figures and Lingard made him useful in that way . 
On Willems expressing a wish to that effect , Lingard let him enter Hudig's service . 
He felt a little sore at that abandonment because he had attached himself , in a way , to his protege . 
Still he was proud of him , and spoke up for him loyally . 
At first it was , Smart boy that never make a seaman though . 
Then when Willems was helping in the trading he referred to him as that clever young fellow . 
Confidential man of old Hudig . 
I picked him up in a ditch , you may say , like a starved cat . 
'Pon my word I did . 
And now he knows more than I do about island trading . 
More than I do , he would repeat , seriously , with innocent pride in his honest eyes . 
From the safe elevation of his commercial successes Willems patronized Lingard . 
He had a liking for his benefactor , not unmixed with some disdain for the crude directness of the old fellow's methods of conduct . 
There were , however , certain sides of Lingard's character for which Willems felt a qualified respect . 
The talkative seaman knew how to be silent on certain matters that to Willems were very interesting . 
Besides , Lingard was rich , and that in itself was enough to compel Willems' unwilling admiration . 
You can't find out where he gets all that india rubber , hey Willems ? Hudig would ask at last , turning away and bending over the papers on his desk . 
But I am trying , was Willems' invariable reply , delivered with a ring of regretful deprecation . 
Try ! Always try ! You may try ! You think yourself clever perhaps , rumbled on Hudig , without looking up . 
I have been trading with him twenty thirty years now . 
Bah ! He stretched out a short , podgy leg and contemplated the bare instep and the grass slipper hanging by the toes . 
You can't make him drunk ? he would add , after a pause of stertorous breathing . 
No , Mr. Hudig , I can't really , protested Willems , earnestly . 
Go to Bun Hin yourself and see the dollars of that payment counted and packed , and have them put on board the mail boat for Ternate . 
She's due here this afternoon . 
If the boat is late , leave the case in Bun Hin's godown till to morrow . 
Don't take it away till the boat is here . 
And don't forget about these opium cases . 
Transship them from the Caroline to the Arab barque , went on the master in his hoarse undertone . 
And don't you come to me with another story of a case dropped overboard like last time , he added , with sudden ferocity , looking up at his confidential clerk . 
Noiselessly Willems went out , shutting carefully behind him the little green door through which he passed to the warehouse . 
Willems would nod familiarly to Mr. Vinck , who had his desk close to the little door of the private office , and march down the warehouse with an important air . 
He applied himself to the task of restitution , and devoted himself to the duty of not being found out . 
On his thirtieth birthday he had almost accomplished the task and the duty had been faithfully and cleverly performed . 
Again he could look hopefully towards the goal of his legitimate ambition . 
Nobody would dare to suspect him , and in a few days there would be nothing to suspect . 
He did not know that his prosperity had touched then its high water mark , and that the tide was already on the turn . 
Two days afterwards he knew . 
Willems' troubled eyes took in the quick impression of men and things as he came out from the place of his humiliation . 
He saw the long avenue of gin cases stretching from where he stood to the arched doorway beyond which he would be able to breathe perhaps . 
A thin rope's end lay across his path and he saw it distinctly , yet stumbled heavily over it as if it had been a bar of iron . 
Then he found himself in the street at last , but could not find air enough to fill his lungs . 
He walked towards his home , gasping . 
Idiotic indiscretion that is how he defined his guilt to himself . 
Could there be anything worse from the point of view of his undeniable cleverness ? What a fatal aberration of an acute mind ! He did not recognize himself there . 
He must have been mad . 
A sudden gust of madness . 
And now the work of long years was destroyed utterly . 
What would become of him ? Before he could answer that question he found himself in the garden before his house , Hudig's wedding gift . 
He looked at it with a vague surprise to find it there . 
Slowly , Willems mounted the dozen steps that led to the verandah . 
He paused at every step . 
He must tell his wife . 
He felt frightened at the prospect , and his alarm dismayed him . 
Frightened to face her ! Nothing could give him a better measure of the greatness of the change around him , and in him . 
Another man and another life with the faith in himself gone . 
He could not be worth much if he was afraid to face that woman . 
Gradually he lost himself in his thoughts , in the endless speculation as to the manner in which she would receive his news and his orders . 
In this preoccupationhe almost forgot the fear of her presence . 
No doubt she will cry , she will lament , she will be helpless and frightened and passive as ever . 
And he would have to drag that limp weight on and on through the darkness of a spoiled life . 
Horrible ! Of course he could not abandon her and the child to certain misery or possible starvation . 
The wife and the child of Willems . 
Willems the successful , the smart Willems the conf . 
Pah ! And what was Willems now ? Willems the . 
He strangled the half born thought , and cleared his throat to stifle a groan . 
Ah ! Won't they talk to night in the billiard room his world , where he had been first all those men to whom he had been so superciliously condescending . 
Won't they talk with surprise , and affected regret , and grave faces , and wise nods . 
Some of them owed him money , but he never pressed anybody . 
Willems , the prince of good fellows , they called him . 
And now they will rejoice , no doubt , at his downfall . 
In his abasement he was yet aware of his superiority over those fellows , who were merely honest or simply not found out yet . 
A crowd of imbeciles ! He shook his fist at the evoked image of his friends , and the startled parrot fluttered its wings and shrieked in desperate fright . 
In a short glance upwards Willems saw his wife come round the corner of the house . 
He lowered his eyelids quickly , and waited silently till she came near and stood on the other side of the little table . 
He would not look at her face , but he could see the red dressing gown he knew so well . 
His gaze travelled upwards from bow to bow , noticing those that hung only by a thread , but it did not go beyond her chin . 
He looked at her lean throat , at the obtrusive collarbone visible in the disarray of the upper part of her attire . 
He saw the thin arm and the bony hand clasping the child she carried , and he felt an immense distaste for those encumbrances of his life . 
He waited for her to say something , but as he felt her eyes rest on him in unbroken silence he sighed and began to speak . 
It was a hard task . 
He spoke slowly , lingering amongst the memories of this early life in his reluctance to confess that this was the end of it and the beginning of a less splendid existence . 
He was not elated by this certitude . 
He had married her to please Hudig , and the greatness of his sacrifice ought to have made her happy without any further exertion on his part . 
She had years of glory as Willems' wife , and years of comfort , of loyal care , and of such tenderness as she deserved . 
He had guarded her carefully from any bodily hurt and of any other suffering he had no conception . 
The assertion of his superiority was only another benefit conferred on her . 
All this was a matter of course , but he told her all this so as to bring vividly before her the greatness of her loss . 
She was so dull of understanding that she would not grasp it else . 
And now it was at an end . 
They would have to go . 
Leave this house , leave this island , go far away where he was unknown . 
To the English Strait Settlements perhaps . 
He would find an opening there for his abilities and juster men to deal with than old Hudig . 
You have the money I left at home this morning , Joanna ? he asked . 
We will want it all now . 
As he spoke those words he thought he was a fine fellow . 
Still , he surpassed there his own expectations . 
Hang it all , there are sacred things in life , after all . 
The marriage tie was one of them , and he was not the man to break it . 
The solidity of his principles caused him great satisfaction , but he did not care to look at his wife , for all that . 
He waited for her to speak . 
Then he would have to console her tell her not to be a crying fool to get ready to go . 
Go where ? How ? When ? He shook his head . 
They must leave at once that was the principal thing . 
He felt a sudden need to hurry up his departure . 
Well , Joanna , he said , a little impatiently don't stand there in a trance . 
Do you hear ? We must . 
He looked up at his wife , and whatever he was going to add remained unspoken . 
She was staring at him with her big , slanting eyes , that seemed to him twice their natural size . 
The child , its dirty little face pressed to its mother's shoulder , was sleeping peacefully . 
The deep silence of the house was not broken , but rather accentuated , by the low mutter of the cockatoo , now very still on its perch . 
As Willems was looking at Joanna her upper lip was drawn up on one side , giving to her melancholy face a vicious expression altogether new to his experience . 
He stepped back in his surprise . 
Oh ! You great man ! she said distinctly , but in a voice that was hardly above a whisper . 
Those words , and still more her tone , stunned him as if somebody had fired a gun close to his ear . 
He stared back at her stupidly . 
Oh ! you great man ! she repeated slowly , glancing right and left as if meditating a sudden escape . 
And you think that I am going to starve with you . 
Do not speak to me . 
I have heard what I have waited for all these years . 
You are less than dirt , you that have wiped your feet on me . 
I have waited for this . 
I am not afraid now . 
I do not want you do not come near me . 
Willems stared motionless , in dumb amazement at the mystery of anger and revolt in the head of his wife . 
Why ? What had he ever done to her ? This was the day of injustice indeed . 
First Hudig and now his wife . 
He felt a terror at this hate that had lived stealthily so near him for years . 
He tried to speak , but she shrieked again , and it was like a needle through his heart . 
Again he raised his hand . 
Help ! called Mrs. Willems , in a piercing voice . 
From under the house , where there were bathrooms and a tool closet , appeared Leonard , a rusty iron bar in his hand . 
He called threateningly from the bottom of the stairs . 
Do not hurt her , Mr. Willems . 
Not at all like we , whites . 
You too ! said the bewildered Willems . 
Is this a madhouse ? He moved towards the stairs , and Leonard dropped the bar with a clang and made for the gate of the compound . 
Willems turned back to his wife . 
So you expected this , he said . 
Who's that sobbing and groaning in the room ? Some more of your precious family . 
Hey ? She was more calm now , and putting hastily the crying child in the big chair walked towards him with sudden fearlessness . 
You took good care that I should not hang round your neck after we were , she answered , clenching her hands , and putting her face close to his . 
You boasted while I suffered and said nothing . 
What has become of your greatness of our greatness you were always speaking about ? Now I am going to live on the charity of your master . 
He sent Leonard to tell me so . 
And you will go and boast somewhere else , and starve . 
So ! Ah ! I can breathe now ! This house is mine . 
Enough ! said Willems , slowly , with an arresting gesture . 
I shall go , said Willems , steadily . 
For the first time in your life you make me happy . 
You were a stone round my neck you understand . 
I did not mean to tell you that as long as you lived , but you made me now . 
Before I pass this gate you shall be gone from my mind . 
You made it very easy . 
He turned and went down the steps without giving her a glance , while she sat upright and quiet , with wide open eyes , the child crying querulously in her arms . 
At the gate he came suddenly upon Leonard , who had been dodging about there and failed to get out of the way in time . 
Do not be brutal , Mr. Willems , said Leonard , hurriedly . 
It is unbecoming between white men with all those natives looking on . 
Leonard's legs trembled very much , and his voice wavered between high and low tones without any attempt at control on his part . 
Restrain your improper violence , he went on mumbling rapidly . 
I am a respectable man of very good family , while you . 
He felt a sudden impulse of mad anger , and before he knew what had happened he was looking at Leonard da Souza rolling in the dust at his feet . 
He stepped over his prostrate brother in law and tore blindly down the street , everybody making way for the frantic white man . 
When he came to himself he was beyond the outskirts of the town , stumbling on the hard and cracked earth of reaped rice fields . 
How did he get there ? It was dark . 
As he walked towards the town slowly , his mind reviewed the events of the day and he felt a sense of bitter loneliness . 
His wife had turned him out of his own house . 
He had assaulted brutally his brother in law , a member of the Da Souza family of that band of his worshippers . 
Well , no ! It was some other man . 
Another man was coming back . 
A man without a past , without a future , yet full of pain and shame and anger . 
He stopped and looked round . 
A dog or two glided across the empty street and rushed past him with a frightened snarl . 
He was now in the midst of the Malay quarter whose bamboo houses , hidden in the verdure of their little gardens , were dark and silent . 
Men , women and children slept in there . 
Then suddenly he felt planks under his feet and , looking up , saw the red light at the end of the jetty . 
He walked quite to the end and stood leaning against the post , under the lamp , looking at the roadstead where two vessels at anchor swayed their slender rigging amongst the stars . 
The end of the jetty and here in one step more the end of life the end of everything . 
What else could he do ? Nothing ever comes back . 
The respect and admiration of them all , the old habits and old affections finished abruptly in the clear perception of the cause of his disgrace . 
His thoughts now wandered home . 
It was miserable , miserable . 
But it would never come back . 
What was there in common between those things and Willems the clever , Willems the successful . 
He had cut himself adrift from that home many years ago . 
All this was gone , never to come back again and suddenly he shivered , seeing himself alone in the presence of unknown and terrible dangers . 
For the first time in his life he felt afraid of the future , because he had lost his faith , the faith in his own success . 
This time it was the old seaman himself going out of his way to pick up the uninteresting waif all that there was left of that sudden and sordid shipwreck . 
To Willems , the rough , friendly voice was a quick and fleeting relief followed by a sharper pang of anger and unavailing regret . 
That voice carried him back to the beginning of his promising career , the end of which was very visible now from the jetty where they both stood . 
He shook himself free from the friendly grasp , saying with ready bitterness It's all your fault . 
Give me a push now , do , and send me over . 
I have been standing here waiting for help . 
You are the man of all men . 
You helped at the beginning you ought to have a hand in the end . 
I have better use for you than to throw you to the fishes , said Lingard , seriously , taking Willems by the arm and forcing him gently to walk up the jetty . 
I have been buzzing over this town like a bluebottle fly , looking for you high and low . 
I have heard a lot . 
I will tell you what , Willems you are no saint , that's a fact . 
And you have not been over wise either . 
I am not throwing stones , he added , hastily , as Willems made an effort to get away , but I am not going to mince matters . 
Never could ! You keep quiet while I talk . 
After the first shock Willems lost the faculty of surprise in the over powering feeling of indignation . 
So it was Vinck and Leonard who had served him so . 
They had watched him , tracked his misdeeds , reported them to Hudig . 
They had bribed obscure Chinamen , wormed out confidences from tipsy skippers , got at various boatmen , and had pieced out in that way the story of his irregularities . 
The blackness of this dark intrigue filled him with horror . 
There was no love lost between them . 
But Leonard ! Leonard ! Why , Captain Lingard , he burst out , the fellow licked my boots . 
Yes , yes , yes , said Lingard , testily , we know that , and you did your best to cram your boot down his throat . 
No man likes that , my boy . 
I was always giving money to all that hungry lot , went on Willems , passionately . 
Always my hand in my pocket . 
They never had to ask twice . 
They asked themselves where all that came from , and concluded that it was safer to throw you overboard . 
After all , Hudig is a much greater man than you , my friend , and they have a claim on him also . 
What do you mean , Captain Lingard ? What do I mean ? repeated Lingard , slowly . 
Why , you are not going to make me believe you did not know your wife was Hudig's daughter . 
Come now ! Willems stopped suddenly and swayed about . 
Ah ! I understand , he gasped . 
Lately I thought there was . 
But no , I never guessed . 
Oh , you simpleton ! said Lingard , pityingly . 
'Pon my word , he muttered to himself , I don't believe the fellow knew . 
Well ! well ! Steady now . 
She is a good wife to you . 
Excellent wife , said Willems , in a dreary voice , looking far over the black and scintillating water . 
Very well then , went on Lingard , with increasing friendliness . 
How well , you know yourself through thick and thin . 
No matter what work and what risk , I was always there always ready . 
How well he saw the greatness of his work and the immensity of that injustice which was his reward . 
She was that man's daughter ! In the light of this disclosure the facts of the last five years of his life stood clearly revealed in their full meaning . 
A most respectable family two women and a young man were his next door neighbours . 
Nobody ever came to their little house but the priest , a native from the Spanish islands , now and then . 
The young man Leonard he had met in town , and was flattered by the little fellow's immense respect for the great Willems . 
He let him bring chairs , call the waiters , chalk his cues when playing billiards , express his admiration in choice words . 
It sounded very respectable , and Willems approved of those feeling references . 
Moreover , he prided himself upon having no colour prejudices and no racial antipathies . 
He consented to drink curacoa one afternoon on the verandah of Mrs. da Souza's house . 
He remembered Joanna that day , swinging in a hammock . 
She was untidy even then , he remembered , and that was the only impression he carried away from that visit . 
And then the sudden and unexpected visit of the priest . 
How he wondered what the man wanted , and how unceremoniously he got rid of him . 
And then came vividly into his recollection the morning when he met again that fellow coming out of Hudig's office , and how he was amused at the incongruous visit . 
knew the father very well . 
best thing for a young man . 
Personally , very glad to hear . 
Suitable recognition of valuable services . 
Best thing best thing to do . 
And he believed ! What credulity ! What an ass ! Hudig knew the father ! Rather . 
And so did everybody else probably all except himself . 
Vinck had been green with envy . 
Oh , yes ! He had believed in the best thing , and took the girl like a gift of fortune . 
How he boasted to Hudig of being free from prejudices . 
The old scoundrel must have been laughing in his sleeve at his fool of a confidential clerk . 
He took the girl , guessing nothing . 
How could he ? There had been a father of some kind to the common knowledge . 
Men knew him spoke about him . 
A lank man of hopelessly mixed descent , but otherwise apparently unobjectionable . 
The shady relations came out afterward , but with his freedom from prejudices he did not mind them , because , with their humble dependence , they completed his triumphant life . 
Taken in ! taken in ! Hudig had found an easy way to provide for the begging crowd . 
He belonged to that woman , no matter what she might do ! . 
Let me go and kill that . 
No you don't ! panted Lingard , hanging on manfully . 
You want to kill , do you ? You lunatic . 
Ah ! I've got you now ! Be quiet , I say ! They struggled violently , Lingard forcing Willems slowly towards the guard rail . 
Under their feet the jetty sounded like a drum in the quiet night . 
On the shore end the native caretaker of the wharf watched the combat , squatting behind the safe shelter of some big cases . 
The next day he informed his friends , with calm satisfaction , that two drunken white men had fought on the jetty . 
It had been a great fight . 
They fought without arms , like wild beasts , after the manner of white men . 
No ! nobody was killed , or there would have been trouble and a report to make . 
How could he know why they fought ? White men have no reason when they are like that . 
They both panted heavily , speechless , their faces very close . 
All right , muttered Willems at last . 
Don't break my back over this infernal rail . 
Now you are reasonable , said Lingard , much relieved . 
Over the smooth water of the roadstead came in answer a faint cry from one of the ships at anchor . 
My boat will be here directly , said Lingard . 
Think of what you are going to do . 
What is there for me to do , except one thing ? said Willems , gloomily . 
Look here , said Lingard I picked you up as a boy , and consider myself responsible for you in a way . 
You took your life into your own hands many years ago but still . 
He paused , listening , till he heard the regular grind of the oars in the rowlocks of the approaching boat then went on again . 
I have made it all right with Hudig . 
You owe him nothing now . 
Go back to your wife . 
She is a good woman . 
Why , Captain Lingard , exclaimed Willems , she . 
It was most affecting , went on Lingard , without heeding him . 
I went to your house to look for you and there I saw her despair . 
She called for you she entreated me to find you . 
She spoke wildly , poor woman , as if all this was her fault . 
He did not break his oath , but he would not go back to her . 
Let hers be the sin of that separation of the sacred bond broken . 
He revelled in the extreme purity of his heart , and he would not go back to her . 
Let her come back to him . 
He had the comfortable conviction that he would never see her again , and that through her own fault only . 
In this conviction he told himself solemnly that if she would come to him he would receive her with generous forgiveness , because such was the praiseworthy solidity of his principles . 
But he hesitated whether he would or would not disclose to Lingard the revolting completeness of his humiliation . 
Turned out of his house and by his wife that woman who hardly dared to breathe in his presence , yesterday . 
He remained perplexed and silent . 
No. He lacked the courage to tell the ignoble story . 
As the boat of the brig appeared suddenly on the black water close to the jetty , Lingard broke the painful silence . 
I always thought , he said , sadly , I always thought you were somewhat heartless , Willems , and apt to cast adrift those that thought most of you . 
I appeal to what is best in you do not abandon that woman . 
I have not abandoned her , answered Willems , quickly , with conscious truthfulness . 
Why should I ? As you so justly observed , she has been a good wife to me . 
A very good , quiet , obedient , loving wife , and I love her as much as she loves me . 
But as to going back now , to that place where I . 
To walk again amongst those men who yesterday were ready to crawl before me , and then feel on my back the sting of their pitying or satisfied smiles no ! I can't . 
I would rather hide from them at the bottom of the sea , he went on , with resolute energy . 
I don't think , Captain Lingard , he added , more quietly , I don't think that you realize what my position was there . 
In a wide sweep of his hand he took in the sleeping shore from north to south , as if wishing it a proud and threatening good bye . 
For a short moment he forgot his downfall in the recollection of his brilliant triumphs . 
Amongst the men of his class and occupation who slept in those dark houses he had been indeed the first . 
It is hard , muttered Lingard , pensively . 
I shall never return to that place alive , wife or no wife . 
You may just as well cut my throat at once . 
Don't try to frighten me , Willems , he said , with great severity , and paused . 
Above the accents of Willems' brazen despair he heard , with considerable uneasiness , the whisper of his own absurd conscience . 
He meditated for awhile with an irresolute air . 
I could tell you to go and drown yourself , and be damned to you , he said , with an unsuccessful assumption of brutality in his manner , but I won't . 
We are responsible for one another worse luck . 
I am almost ashamed of myself , but I can understand your dirty pride . 
He broke off with a loud sigh and walked briskly to the steps , at the bottom of which lay his boat , rising and falling gently on the slight and invisible swell . 
Below there ! Got a lamp in the boat ? Well , light it and bring it up , one of you . 
Hurry now ! He tore out a page of his pocketbook , moistened his pencil with great energy and waited , stamping his feet impatiently . 
I will see this thing through , he muttered to himself . 
The gleam of the light on the paper placated his professional anger , and he wrote rapidly , the final dash of his signature curling the paper up in a triangular tear . 
Take that to this white Tuan's house . 
I will send the boat back for you in half an hour . 
The coxswain raised his lamp deliberately to Willem's face . 
This Tuan ? Tau ! I know . 
Quick then ! said Lingard , taking the lamp from him and the man went off at a run . 
Kassi mem ! To the lady herself , called Lingard after him . 
Then , when the man disappeared , he turned to Willems . 
I have written to your wife , he said . 
If you do not return for good , you do not go back to that house only for another parting . 
You must come as you stand . 
I won't have that poor woman tormented . 
I will see to it that you are not separated for long . 
Trust me ! Willems shivered , then smiled in the darkness . 
No fear of that , he muttered , enigmatically . 
I trust you implicitly , Captain Lingard , he added , in a louder tone . 
Lingard led the way down the steps , swinging the lamp and speaking over his shoulder . 
It is the second time , Willems , I take you in hand . 
Mind it is the last . 
The second time and the only difference between then and now is that you were bare footed then and have boots now . 
With all your smartness ! A poor result that . 
That's what comes of such talk as yours , and of such a life . 
A man sees so much falsehood that he begins to lie to himself . 
Pah ! he said , in disgust , there's only one place for an honest man . 
Willems sat by him in silence , and the boat shoved off , sweeping in a wide circle towards the brig . 
Your compassion is all for my wife , Captain Lingard , said Willems , moodily . 
Do you think I am so very happy ? No ! no ! said Lingard , heartily . 
Not a word more shall pass my lips . 
I had to speak my mind once , seeing that I knew you from a child , so to speak . 
And now I shall forget but you are young yet . 
Life is very long , he went on , with unconscious sadness let this be a lesson to you . 
He laid his hand affectionately on Willems' shoulder , and they both sat silent till the boat came alongside the ship's ladder . 
The boat went off again to bring back the messenger . 
From the forward end came the clink of the windlass , and soon afterwards the hail of the chief mate informing Lingard that the cable was hove short . 
Hold on everything , hailed back Lingard we must wait for the land breeze before we let go our hold of the ground . 
He approached Willems , who sat on the skylight , his body bent down , his head low , and his hands hanging listlessly between his knees . 
I am going to take you to Sambir , he said . 
You've never heard of the place , have you ? Well , it's up that river of mine about which people talk so much and know so little . 
I've found out the entrance for a ship of Flash's size . 
You have been at sea long enough to take an interest . 
Pity you didn't stick to it . 
Well , I am going there . 
I have my own trading post in the place . 
You knew him when he was at Hudig's . 
Oh , he lives there as happy as a king . 
D'ye see , I have them all in my pocket . 
The rajah is an old friend of mine . 
My word is law and I am the only trader . 
No other white man but Almayer had ever been in that settlement . 
You will live quietly there till I come back from my next cruise to the westward . 
We shall see then what can be done for you . 
I have no doubt my secret will be safe with you . 
Keep mum about my river when you get amongst the traders again . 
There's many would give their ears for the knowledge of it . 
I'll tell you something that's where I get all my guttah and rattans . 
Simply inexhaustible , my boy . 
He sat in a listless attitude . 
You will help Almayer in his trading if you have a heart for it , continued Lingard , just to kill time till I come back for you . 
Only six weeks or so . 
The mate spoke with low distinctness from the shadows of the quarter deck . 
He seemed to hesitate for a minute . 
To the northward , to the northward , he answered , testily , as if annoyed at his own fleeting thought , and bear a hand there . 
Every puff of wind is worth money in these seas . 
He remained motionless , listening to the rattle of blocks and the creaking of trusses as the head yards were hauled round . 
Sail was made on the ship and the windlass manned again while he stood still , lost in thought . 
He only roused himself when a barefooted seacannie glided past him silently on his way to the wheel . 
The anchor was secured , the yards trimmed , and the brig began to move out of the roadstead . 
Lingard stood by the taff rail listening , with a pleased smile till the Flash began to draw close to the only other vessel in the anchorage . 
Here , Willems , he said , calling him to his side , d'ye see that barque here ? That's an Arab vessel . 
White men have mostly given up the game , but this fellow drops in my wake often , and lives in hopes of cutting me out in that settlement . 
Not while I live , I trust . 
You see , Willems , I brought prosperity to that place . 
I composed their quarrels , and saw them grow under my eyes . 
There's peace and happiness there . 
I am more master there than his Dutch Excellency down in Batavia ever will be when some day a lazy man of war blunders at last against the river . 
I mean to keep the Arabs out of it , with their lies and their intrigues . 
I shall keep the venomous breed out , if it costs me my fortune . 
Then he turned to Willems with a grim smile . 
That's Abdulla's voice , he said . 
Mighty civil all of a sudden , isn't he ? I wonder what it means . 
Just like his impudence ! No matter ! His civility or his impudence are all one to me . 
I know that this fellow will be under way and after me like a shot . 
I knew him well when he had slaves , and many wives , and much merchandise , and trading praus , and praus for fighting . 
Hai ya ! He was a great fighter in the days before the breath of the Merciful put out the light in his eyes . 
He was a pilgrim , and had many virtues he was brave , his hand was open , and he was a great robber . 
He shook his head with mournful regret and threw another handful of fuel on the fire . 
The reflection of the firelight gleamed brightly in his solitary eye , lending it for a moment a fierce animation that died out together with the short lived flame . 
Lakamba stirred slightly without changing his position or taking his eyes off the glowing coals , on which they had been fixed in dreamy immobility . 
He has been rich and strong , and now he lives on alms old , feeble , blind , and without companions , but for his daughter . 
The Rajah Patalolo gives him rice , and the pale woman his daughter cooks it for him , for he has no slave . 
I saw her from afar , muttered Lakamba , disparagingly . 
A she dog with white teeth , like a woman of the Orang Putih . 
Right , right , assented Babalatchi but you have not seen her near . 
Her mother was a woman from the west a Baghdadi woman with veiled face . 
You have not been on that side of the river ? Not for a long time . 
True ! true ! interrupted Babalatchi , soothingly , but I go often alone for your good and look and listen . 
When the time comes when we both go together towards the Rajah's campong , it will be to enter and to remain . 
Lakamba sat up and looked at Babalatchi gloomily . 
This is good talk , once , twice when it is heard too often it becomes foolish , like the prattle of children . 
Many , many times have I seen the cloudy sky and have heard the wind of the rainy seasons , said Babalatchi , impressively . 
And where is your wisdom ? It must be with the wind and the clouds of seasons past , for I do not hear it in your talk . 
Those are the words of the ungrateful ! shouted Babalatchi , with sudden exasperation . 
Verily , our only refuge is with the One , the Mighty , the Redresser of . 
Peace ! Peace ! growled the startled Lakamba . 
It is but a friend's talk . 
Babalatchi subsided into his former attitude , muttering to himself . 
Would a white man listen to a beggar's daughter ? said Lakamba , doubtingly . 
Hai ! I have seen . 
And what did you see ? O one eyed one ! exclaimed Lakamba , contemptuously . 
Woman in body , but in heart a man ! She knows no fear and no shame . 
I have heard her voice too . 
He nodded twice at Lakamba sagaciously and gave himself up to silent musing , his solitary eye fixed immovably upon the straight wall of forest on the opposite bank . 
Lakamba lay silent , staring vacantly . 
Under them Lingard's own river rippled softly amongst the piles supporting the bamboo platform of the little watch house before which they were lying . 
Babalatchi revived the fire and woke up his companion , who sat up yawning and shivering discontentedly . 
Lakamba listened , silent but interested . 
They were Malay adventurers ambitious men of that place and time the Bohemians of their race . 
In the early days of the settlement , before the ruler Patalolo had shaken off his allegiance to the Sultan of Koti , Lakamba appeared in the river with two small trading vessels . 
He declared himself to be a man from the east , from those parts where no white man ruled , and to be of an oppressed race , but of a princely family . 
And truly enough he had all the gifts of an exiled prince . 
He was discontented , ungrateful , turbulent a man full of envy and ready for intrigue , with brave words and empty promises for ever on his lips . 
He was obstinate , but his will was made up of short impulses that never lasted long enough to carry him to the goal of his ambition . 
As he had many followers and seemed very reckless , the old Rajah did not think it prudent at the time to interfere with him by force . 
Once settled , he began to intrigue . 
But the passing days brought no change . 
Babalatchi had blundered upon the river while in search of a safe refuge for his disreputable head . 
, although unable to read the inspired words of the Prophet . 
Babalatchi , with the clear perception of the coming end , devoted all his energies to saving if it was but only one of them . 
When the end came in the explosion of the stored powder barrels , he was ready to look for his chief . 
He found him half dead and totally blinded , with nobody near him but his daughter Aissa the sons had fallen earlier in the day , as became men of their courage . 
Helped by the girl with the steadfast heart , Babalatchi carried Omar on board the light prau and succeeded in escaping , but with very few companions only . 
Aissa , sitting on the high after deck , her father's blackened and bleeding head in her lap , looked up with fearless eyes at Babalatchi . 
They shall find only smoke , blood and dead men , and women mad with fear there , but nothing else living , she said , mournfully . 
Babalatchi , pressing with his right hand the deep gash on his shoulder , answered sadly They are very strong . 
When we fight with them we can only die . 
While Omar , nursed by Aissa , was recovering from his wounds , Babalatchi attended industriously before the exalted Presence that had extended to them the hand of Protection . 
I know you , you men from the west , he exclaimed , angrily . 
Your words are poison in a Ruler's ears . 
Your talk is of fire and murder and booty but on our heads falls the vengeance of the blood you drink . 
Begone ! There was nothing to be done . 
But from that sane appreciation of danger to tame submission was a very long step . 
And then began Omar's second flight . 
The story of that escape lives in the hearts of brave men even to this day . 
They talk of Babalatchi and of the strong woman who carried her blind father through the surf under the fire of the warship from the north . 
There they may hear the story of their own deeds , of their own courage , suffering and death , on the lips of living men . 
That story is told in many places . 
They talk of the fight , of the fearless woman , of the wise man of long suffering on the thirsty sea in leaky canoes of those who died . 
The chief , the woman , and another one who became great . 
There was no hint of incipient greatness in Babalatchi's unostentatious arrival in Sambir . 
He came with Omar and Aissa in a small prau loaded with green cocoanuts , and claimed the ownership of both vessel and cargo . 
In truth nobody inquired much . 
There were rumours of a missing trading prau belonging to Menado , but they were vague and remained mysterious . 
Babalatchi told a story which it must be said in justice to Patalolo's knowledge of the world was not believed . 
There were charitable people , and their hand was open to the deserving . 
Patalolo wagged his aged head doubtingly , and Babalatchi withdrew with a shocked mien and put himself forthwith under Lakamba's protection . 
The two men who completed the prau's crew followed him into that magnate's campong . 
The blind Omar , with Aissa , remained under the care of the Rajah , and the Rajah confiscated the cargo . 
Otherwise , he felt perfectly at home in Lakamba's establishment , where his peculiar position and influence were quickly recognized and soon submitted to even by the women . 
He had all a true vagabond's pliability to circumstances and adaptiveness to momentary surroundings . 
He kept the discontent alive , he rekindled the expiring ambition , he moderated the poor exile's not unnatural impatience to attain a high and lucrative position . 
He the man of violence deprecated the use of force , for he had a clear comprehension of the difficult situation . 
From the same cause , he the hater of white men would to some extent admit the eventual expediency of Dutch protection . 
But nothing should be done in a hurry . 
Whatever his master Lakamba might think , there was no use in poisoning old Patalolo , he maintained . 
Killing Almayer and Lingard was so difficult and so risky that it might be dismissed as impracticable . 
A rich and considered trader was wanted . 
Such a person once firmly established in Sambir would help them to oust the old Rajah , to remove him from power or from life if there was no other way . 
The first thing to do was to find such an ally and to induce him to settle in Sambir . 
A white trader would not do . 
A white man would not fall in with their ideas would not be trustworthy . 
The man they wanted should be rich , unscrupulous , have many followers , and be a well known personality in the islands . 
Such a man might be found amongst the Arab traders . 
Lingard's jealousy , said Babalatchi , kept all the traders out of the river . 
The great majority were undesirable or untrustworthy . 
Such was Babalatchi's line of policy laid before his ambitious protector . 
Lakamba assented , his only objection being that it was very slow work . 
It would not do to let it be seen that they had any hand in introducing a new element into the social and political life of Sambir . 
There was always a possibility of failure , and in that case Lingard's vengeance would be swift and certain . 
No risk should be run . 
Meantime he pervaded the settlement , squatting in the course of each day by many household fires , testing the public temper and public opinion and always talking about his impending departure . 
At night he would often take Lakamba's smallest canoe and depart silently to pay mysterious visits to his old chief on the other side of the river . 
Omar lived in odour of sanctity under the wing of Patalolo . 
The Rajah was greatly impressed by Omar's ostentatious piety , by his oracular wisdom , by his many misfortunes , by the solemn fortitude with which he bore his affliction . 
Often the old ruler of Sambir would visit informally the blind Arab and listen gravely to his talk during the hot hours of an afternoon . 
In the night , Babalatchi would call and interrupt Omar's repose , unrebuked . 
She could not hear their words , but she watched the two formless shadows curiously . 
Finally Babalatchi would rise and , taking her father by the wrist , would lead him back to the house , arrange his mats for him , and go out quietly . 
Instead of going away , Babalatchi , unconscious of Aissa's eyes , often sat again by the fire , in a long and deep meditation . 
Babalatchi noted the arrival of Willems with alarm at this new accession to the white men's strength . 
Afterwards he changed his opinion . 
Once , coming unexpectedly in the daytime , Babalatchi fancied he could see the gleam of a white jacket in the bushes on the other side of the brook . 
That same evening he startled Lakamba by announcing that the time had come at last to make the first move in their long deferred game . 
Lakamba asked excitedly for explanation . 
Babalatchi shook his head and pointed to the flitting shadows of moving women and to the vague forms of men sitting by the evening fires in the courtyard . 
Not a word would he speak here , he declared . 
In the seclusion of its quiet solitude Babalatchi explained his plan to the attentive Lakamba . 
His idea was to make use of Willems for the destruction of Lingard's influence . 
I know the white men , Tuan , he said , in conclusion . 
In many lands have I seen them always the slaves of their desires , always ready to give up their strength and their reason into the hands of some woman . 
Let one white man destroy another . 
The will of the Most High is that they should be fools . 
They know how to keep faith with their enemies , but towards each other they know only deception . 
Hai ! I have seen ! I have seen ! He stretched himself full length before the fire , and closed his eye in real or simulated sleep . 
Lakamba , not quite convinced , sat for a long time with his gaze riveted on the dull embers . 
CHAPTER SIX Lend me your gun , Almayer , said Willems , across the table on which a smoky lamp shone redly above the disorder of a finished meal . 
I have a mind to go and look for a deer when the moon rises to night . 
You might say yes or no instead of making that unpleasant noise , remarked Willems , with calm irritation . 
As it is what's the use ? You know where the gun is you may take it or leave it . 
Bosh ! Hunt deer ! Pah ! It's a . 
gazelle you are after , my honoured guest . 
You want gold anklets and silk sarongs for that game my mighty hunter . 
And you won't get those for the asking , I promise you . 
All day amongst the natives . 
A fine help you are to me . 
You shouldn't drink so much , Almayer , said Willems , disguising his fury under an affected drawl . 
Never had , as far as I can remember , in the old days in Macassar . 
I drink my own , retorted Almayer , lifting his head quickly and darting an angry glance at Willems . 
He jumped into the smallest canoe , balancing himself clumsily , slipped the rattan painter , and gave an unnecessary and violent shove , which nearly sent him headlong overboard . 
By the time he regained his balance the canoe had drifted some fifty yards down the river . 
He knelt in the bottom of his little craft and fought the current with long sweeps of the paddle . 
I thought you would go , he shouted . 
Won't you take the gun ? Hey ? he yelled , straining his voice . 
Then he fell back in his hammock and laughed to himself feebly till he fell asleep . 
On the river , Willems , his eyes fixed intently ahead , swept his paddle right and left , unheeding the words that reached him faintly . 
It was now three months since Lingard had landed Willems in Sambir and had departed hurriedly , leaving him in Almayer's care . 
The two white men did not get on well together . 
Almayer , remembering the time when they both served Hudig , and when the superior Willems treated him with offensive condescension , felt a great dislike towards his guest . 
He was also jealous of Lingard's favour . 
Willems watched the succeeding sunrises wondering dismally whether before the evening some change would occur in the deadly dullness of his life . 
Big as was the extent of ground owned by Almayer , Willems yet felt that there was not enough room for him inside those neat fences . 
He gnashed his teeth when he thought of the wasted days , of the life thrown away in the unwilling company of that peevish and suspicious fool . 
He heard the reproach of his idleness in the murmurs of the river , in the unceasing whisper of the great forests . 
Round him everything stirred , moved , swept by in a rush the earth under his feet and the heavens above his head . 
He took to wandering about the settlement . 
The afterwards flourishing Sambir was born in a swamp and passed its youth in malodorous mud . 
There was only one path in the whole town and it ran at the back of the houses along the succession of blackened circular patches that marked the place of the household fires . 
Nobody would accept the deceptive challenge . 
The innocent cause of that disturbance ran shamefacedly the gauntlet of black looks and unfriendly remarks , and hastily sought refuge in Almayer's campong . 
After that he left the settlement alone . 
And he would recommence paddling with tired arms to seek another opening , to find another deception . 
There was also a pathway there and it seemed frequented . 
Further on , the path continued , narrowed again in the thick undergrowth . 
He stopped , surprised , and fancied he had heard light footsteps growing lighter ceasing . 
The grass on the bank of the stream trembled and a tremulous path of its shivering , silver grey tops ran from the water to the beginning of the thicket . 
And yet there was not a breath of wind . 
He looked pensive while the tremor died out in a quick tremble under his eyes and the grass stood high , unstirring , with drooping heads in the warm and motionless air . 
He hurried on , driven by a suddenly awakened curiosity , and entered the narrow way between the bushes . 
At the next turn of the path he caught again the glimpse of coloured stuff and of a woman's black hair before him . 
He hastened his pace and came in full view of the object of his pursuit . 
The woman , who was carrying two bamboo vessels full of water , heard his footsteps , stopped , and putting the bamboos down half turned to look back . 
Willems also stood still for a minute , then walked steadily on with a firm tread , while the woman moved aside to let him pass . 
He kept his eyes fixed straight before him , yet almost unconsciously he took in every detail of the tall and graceful figure . 
The next moment he was passing her close , walking rigidly , like a man in a trance . 
He heard her rapid breathing and he felt the touch of a look darted at him from half open eyes . 
It touched his brain and his heart together . 
It seemed to him to be something loud and stirring like a shout , silent and penetrating like an inspiration . 
The momentum of his motion carried him past her , but an invisible force made up of surprise and curiosity and desire spun him round as soon as he had passed . 
She had taken up her burden already , with the intention of pursuing her path . 
She moved a step forward and again halted . 
He looked at the woman . 
Through the checkered light between them she appeared to him with the impalpable distinctness of a dream . 
The very spirit of that land of mysterious forests , standing before him like an apparition behind a transparent veil a veil woven of sunbeams and shadows . 
She had approached him still nearer . 
He felt a strange impatience within him at her advance . 
Confused thoughts rushed through his head , disordered , shapeless , stunning . 
Then he heard his own voice asking Who are you ? I am the daughter of the blind Omar , she answered , in a low but steady tone . 
And you , she went on , a little louder , you are the white trader the great man of this place . 
Yes , said Willems , holding her eyes with his in a sense of extreme effort , Yes , I am white . 
Then he added , feeling as if he spoke about some other man , But I am the outcast of my people . 
She listened to him gravely . 
Through the mesh of scattered hair her face looked like the face of a golden statue with living eyes . 
The heavy eyelids dropped slightly , and from between the long eyelashes she sent out a sidelong look hard , keen , and narrow , like the gleam of sharp steel . 
A shadow passed over Willems' face . 
You are beautiful , he whispered . 
CHAPTER SEVEN There are in our lives short periods which hold no place in memory but only as the recollection of a feeling . 
There is no remembrance of gesture , of action , of any outward manifestation of life those are lost in the unearthly brilliance or in the unearthly gloom of such moments . 
But death in such a moment is the privilege of the fortunate , it is a high and rare favour , a supreme grace . 
Willems never remembered how and when he parted from Aissa . 
He caught himself drinking the muddy water out of the hollow of his hand , while his canoe was drifting in mid stream past the last houses of Sambir . 
With his returning wits came the fear of something unknown that had taken possession of his heart , of something inarticulate and masterful which could not speak and would be obeyed . 
His first impulse was that of revolt . 
He would never go back there . 
He drank again , and shuddered with a depraved sense of pleasure at the after taste of slime in the water . 
His host's sulky greeting jarred him like a sudden fall down a great height . 
The darkness of the night entered his heart , bringing with it doubt and hesitation and dull anger with himself and all the world . 
He had an impulse to shout horrible curses , to quarrel with Almayer , to do something violent . 
Quite without any immediate provocation he thought he would like to assault the wretched , sulky beast . 
He glanced at him ferociously from under his eyebrows . 
The unconscious Almayer smoked thoughtfully , planning to morrow's work probably . 
The man's composure seemed to Willems an unpardonable insult . 
Why didn't that idiot talk to night when he wanted him to ? . 
on other nights he was ready enough to chatter . 
And such dull nonsense too ! And Willems , trying hard to repress his own senseless rage , looked fixedly through the thick tobacco smoke at the stained tablecloth . 
They retired early , as usual , but in the middle of the night Willems leaped out of his hammock with a stifled execration and ran down the steps into the courtyard . 
He disappeared in the darkness and then came back again , passing them close , but with no sign of consciousness of their presence on his face . 
As soon as he could get away unnoticed in the bustle of the busy riverside , Willems crossed the river on his way to the place where he had met Aissa . 
He threw himself down in the grass by the side of the brook and listened for the sound of her footsteps . 
The brilliant light of day fell through the irregular opening in the high branches of the trees and streamed down , softened , amongst the shadows of big trunks . 
And in that atmosphere of Nature's workshop Willems felt soothed and lulled into forgetfulness of his past , into indifference as to his future . 
She came , of course . 
To her he was something new , unknown and strange . 
He was bigger , stronger than any man she had seen before , and altogether different from all those she knew . 
He was of the victorious race . 
They spoke with just such a deep voice those victorious men they looked with just such hard blue eyes at their enemies . 
And she made that voice speak softly to her , those eyes look tenderly at her face ! He was indeed a man . 
She felt that he was ready . 
She felt it with the unerring intuition of a primitive woman confronted by a simple impulse . 
It was a deep joy , a great pride , a tangible sweetness that seemed to leave the taste of honey on her lips . 
He lay stretched at her feet without moving , for he knew from experience how a slight movement of his could frighten her away in those first days of their intercourse . 
He lay very quiet , with all the ardour of his desire ringing in his voice and shining in his eyes , whilst his body was still , like death itself . 
Every day she came a little nearer . 
He watched her slow progress the gradual taming of that woman by the words of his love . 
And while she was near there was nothing in the whole world for that idle man but her look and her smile . 
Nothing in the past , nothing in the future and in the present only the luminous fact of her existence . 
But in the sudden darkness of her going he would be left weak and helpless , as though despoiled violently of all that was himself . 
He flung her hand away brutally , like something burning , and sat motionless , his head fallen forward , staring on the ground and catching his breath in painful gasps . 
His impulse of fear and apparent horror did not dismay her in the least . 
Her face was grave and her eyes looked seriously at him . 
He scrambled to his feet slowly and painfully , like a man with a burden on his shoulders , and walked towards the riverside . 
He hugged to his breast the recollection of his fear and of his delight , but told himself seriously over and over again that this must be the end of that adventure . 
He marched up to Almayer's house with the concentrated expression and the determined step of a man who had just taken a momentous resolution . 
His face was set and rigid , his gestures and movements were guarded and slow . 
He was keeping a tight hand on himself . 
He had a vivid illusion as vivid as reality almost of being in charge of a slippery prisoner . 
He sat opposite Almayer during that dinner which was their last meal together with a perfectly calm face and within him a growing terror of escape from his own self . 
Then , abruptly , came a relaxation of his muscles , the giving way of his will . 
Something seemed to snap in his head , and that wish , that idea kept back during all those hours , darted into his brain with the heat and noise of a conflagration . 
He must see her ! See her at once ! Go now ! To night ! He had the raging regret of the lost hour , of every passing moment . 
There was no thought of resistance now . 
Yet with the instinctive fear of the irrevocable , with the innate falseness of the human heart , he wanted to keep open the way of retreat . 
He had never absented himself during the night . 
What did Almayer know ? What would Almayer think ? Better ask him for the gun . 
He would lie to Almayer . 
What did it matter ! He lied to himself every minute of his life . 
And for what ? For a woman . 
Almayer's answer showed him that deception was useless . 
Everything gets to be known , even in this place . 
Well , he did not care . 
Cared for nothing but for the lost seconds . 
What if he should suddenly die . 
Die before he saw her . 
He was thunderstruck at first . 
It was a sound inarticulate but full of meaning and following it there came a rending and tearing within his breast . 
He twisted his fingers together , and the joints of his hands and arms cracked . 
On his forehead the perspiration stood out in small pearly drops . 
Above the shapeless darkness of the forest undergrowth rose the treetops with their high boughs and leaves standing out black on the pale sky like fragments of night floating on moonbeams . 
Under his feet warm steam rose from the heated earth . 
Round him there was a great silence . 
He was looking round for help . 
This silence , this immobility of his surroundings seemed to him a cold rebuke , a stern refusal , a cruel unconcern . 
There was no safety outside of himself and in himself there was no refuge there was only the image of that woman . 
He had a sudden moment of lucidity of that cruel lucidity that comes once in life to the most benighted . 
He seemed to see what went on within him , and was horrified at the strange sight . 
He tried to tell himself that the thing was of no consequence . 
It was a vain effort . 
The novelty of the sensations he had never experienced before in the slightest degree , yet had despised on hearsay from his safe position of a civilized man , destroyed his courage . 
He was disappointed with himself . 
He seemed to be surrendering to a wild creature the unstained purity of his life , of his race , of his civilization . 
He had a notion of being lost amongst shapeless things that were dangerous and ghastly . 
He struggled with the sense of certain defeat lost his footing fell back into the darkness . 
PART II CHAPTER ONE The light and heat fell upon the settlement , the clearings , and the river as if flung down by an angry hand . 
The land lay silent , still , and brilliant under the avalanche of burning rays that had destroyed all sound and all motion , had buried all shadows , had choked every breath . 
No living thing dared to affront the serenity of this cloudless sky , dared to revolt against the oppression of this glorious and cruel sunshine . 
Strength and resolution , body and mind alike were helpless , and tried to hide before the rush of the fire from heaven . 
The child , tired and hot , moved uneasily , sighed , and looked up at him with the veiled look of sleepy fatigue . 
He picked up from the floor a broken palm leaf fan , and began fanning gently the flushed little face . 
Her eyelids fluttered and Almayer smiled . 
Almayer moved lightly off , took one of the wooden armchairs , and placing it close to the balustrade of the verandah sat down with a sigh of relief . 
He spread his elbows on the top rail and resting his chin on his clasped hands looked absently at the river , at the dance of sunlight on the flowing water . 
Gradually the forest of the further bank became smaller , as if sinking below the level of the river . 
The outlines wavered , grew thin , dissolved in the air . 
Before his eyes there was now only a space of undulating blue one big , empty sky growing dark at times . 
Where was the sunshine ? . 
He felt soothed and happy , as if some gentle and invisible hand had removed from his soul the burden of his body . 
In another second he seemed to float out into a cool brightness where there was no such thing as memory or pain . 
His eyes closed opened closed again . 
Almayer ! With a sudden jerk of his whole body he sat up , grasping the front rail with both his hands , and blinked stupidly . 
What ? What's that ? he muttered , looking round vaguely . 
Here ! Down here , Almayer . 
Half rising in his chair , Almayer looked over the rail at the foot of the verandah , and fell back with a low whistle of astonishment . 
A ghost , by heavens ! he exclaimed softly to himself . 
Will you listen to me ? went on the husky voice from the courtyard . 
May I come up , Almayer ? Almayer stood up and leaned over the rail . 
Don't you dare , he said , in a voice subdued but distinct . 
Don't you dare ! The child sleeps here . 
And I don't want to hear you or speak to you either . 
You must listen to me ! It's something important . 
Not to me , surely . 
You were always a humbug , said Almayer , after a short silence , in an indulgent tone . 
Always ! I remember the old days . 
Some fellows used to say there was no one like you for smartness but you never took me in . 
I never quite believed in you , Mr. Willems . 
I admit your superior intelligence , retorted Willems , with scornful impatience , from below . 
Listening to me would be a further proof of it . 
You will be sorry if you don't . 
Oh , you funny fellow ! said Almayer , banteringly . 
Don't make a noise , but come up . 
You'll catch a sunstroke down there and die on my doorstep perhaps . 
I don't want any tragedy here . 
His jacket was soiled and torn below the waist he was clothed in a worn out and faded sarong . 
An unclean beard grew out of the caverns of his sunburnt cheeks . 
The hand he put out towards Almayer was very unsteady . 
The once firm mouth had the tell tale droop of mental suffering and physical exhaustion . 
Almayer surveyed him with leisurely composure . 
Well ! he said at last , without taking the extended hand which dropped slowly along Willems' body . 
I am come , began Willems . 
So I see , interrupted Almayer . 
You might have spared me this treat without making me unhappy . 
You have been away five weeks , if I am not mistaken . 
I got on very well without you and now you are here you are not pretty to look at . 
Let me speak , will you ! exclaimed Willems . 
Do you think yourself in the forest with your . 
your friends ? This is a civilized man's house . 
Understand ? I am come , began Willems again I am come for your good and mine . 
You look as if you had come for a good feed , chimed in the irrepressible Almayer , while Willems waved his hand in a discouraged gesture . 
You know , he was the greatest thief and murderer of those seas . 
They all lied ! I . 
Sh sh ! hissed Almayer , warningly , with a look at the sleeping child . 
So you did steal , he went on , with repressed exultation . 
I thought there was something of the kind . 
And now , here , you steal again . 
For the first time Willems raised his eyes to Almayer's face . 
Oh , I don't mean from me . 
I haven't missed anything , said Almayer , with mocking haste . 
Hey ! You stole her . 
You did not pay the old fellow . 
She is no good to him now , is she ? Stop that . 
Almayer ! Something in Willems' tone caused Almayer to pause . 
He looked narrowly at the man before him , and could not help being shocked at his appearance . 
Almayer , went on Willems , listen to me . 
If you are a human being you will . 
I suffer horribly and for your sake . 
Indeed ! How ? But you are raving , he added , negligently . 
Ah ! You don't know , whispered Willems . 
Gone , he repeated , with tears in his voice , gone two days ago . 
No ! exclaimed the surprised Almayer . 
Gone ! I haven't heard that news yet . 
He burst into a subdued laugh . 
How funny ! Had enough of you already ? You know it's not flattering for you , my superior countryman . 
Willems as if not hearing him leaned against one of the columns of the roof and looked over the river . 
At first , he whispered , dreamily , my life was like a vision of heaven or hell I didn't know which . 
Since she went I know what perdition means what darkness is . 
I know what it is to be torn to pieces alive . 
You may come and live with me again , said Almayer , coldly . 
After all , Lingard whom I call my father and respect as such left you under my care . 
You pleased yourself by going away . 
Now you want to come back . 
I am no friend of yours . 
I act for Captain Lingard . 
Come back ? repeated Willems , passionately . 
I haven't seen her for two days two days . 
The intensity of Willems' feeling moved Almayer somewhat , but he affected to yawn elaborately You do bore me , he muttered . 
Why don't you go after her instead of coming here ? Why indeed ? Don't you know where she is ? She can't be very far . 
No native craft has left this river for the last fortnight . 
No ! not very far and I will tell you where she is . 
She is in Lakamba's campong . 
And Willems fixed his eyes steadily on Almayer's face . 
Phew ! Patalolo never sent to let me know . 
Strange , said Almayer , thoughtfully . 
Are you afraid of that lot ? he added , after a short pause . 
I afraid ! Then is it the care of your dignity which prevents you from following her there , my high minded friend ? asked Almayer , with mock solicitude . 
How noble of you ! There was a short silence then Willems said , quietly , You are a fool . 
I should like to kick you . 
No fear , answered Almayer , carelessly you are too weak for that . 
I don't think I have eaten anything for the last two days perhaps more I don't remember . 
I am full of live embers , said Willems , gloomily . 
Look ! and he bared an arm covered with fresh scars . 
Disgusting exhibition , said Almayer , loftily . 
What could father ever see in you ? You are as estimable as a heap of garbage . 
You talk like that ! You , who sold your soul for a few guilders , muttered Willems , wearily , without opening his eyes . 
Not so few , said Almayer , with instinctive readiness , and stopped confused for a moment . 
You spoke just now about guilders . 
You meant Lingard's money , I suppose . 
Well , whatever I have sold , and for whatever price , I never meant you you of all people to spoil my bargain . 
I feel pretty safe though . 
Even father , even Captain Lingard , would not touch you now with a pair of tongs not with a ten foot pole . 
He spoke excitedly , all in one breath , and , ceasing suddenly , glared at Willems and breathed hard through his nose in sulky resentment . 
Willems looked at him steadily for a moment , then got up . 
Almayer , he said resolutely , I want to become a trader in this place . 
And you shall set me up . 
I want a house and trade goods perhaps a little money . 
I ask you for it . 
and then I could shut up that old wretch and then . 
He paused , his face brightened with the soft light of dreamy enthusiasm , and he turned his eyes upwards . 
With his gaunt figure and dilapidated appearance he looked like some ascetic dweller in a wilderness , finding the reward of a self denying life in a vision of dazzling glory . 
His eyes wandered for awhile and then became steady all at once . 
I need not interfere with your business . 
I shall cut out the small native traders . 
I have ideas but never mind that now . 
And Captain Lingard would approve , I feel sure . 
After all it's a loan , and I shall be at hand . 
Ah ! Captain Lingard would approve ! He would app . 
The notion of Lingard doing something for Willems enraged him . 
Willems looked at him coolly . 
I assure you , Almayer , he said , gently , that I have good grounds for my demand . 
Your cursed impudence ! Believe me , Almayer , your position here is not so safe as you may think . 
An unscrupulous rival here would destroy your trade in a year . 
Now Lingard's long absence gives courage to certain individuals . 
You know ? I have heard much lately . 
They made proposals to me . 
You are very much alone here . 
Damn Patalolo ! I am master in this place . 
But , Almayer , don't you see . 
I see a mysterious ass , interrupted Almayer , violently . 
What is the meaning of your veiled threats ? Don't you think I know something also ? They have been intriguing for years and nothing has happened . 
The Arabs have been hanging about outside this river for years and I am still the only trader here the master here . 
Do you bring me a declaration of war ? Then it's from yourself only . 
I know all my other enemies . 
I ought to knock you on the head . 
You are not worth powder and shot though . 
You ought to be destroyed with a stick like a snake . 
Almayer's voice woke up the little girl , who sat up on the pillow with a sharp cry . 
Clear out of this ! Clear out ! he shouted . 
Willems made an attempt to speak , but Almayer howled him down . 
See ! Bad man going away . 
Look ! He is afraid of your papa . 
He shall live in the woods and never come near my little girl . 
Look how he runs away , dearest , he said , coaxingly . 
Call 'pig' after him , dearest . 
The seriousness of her face vanished into dimples . 
Under the long eyelashes , glistening with recent tears , her big eyes sparkled and danced with fun . 
The talk of camp fires , which speaks of bravery and cunning , of strange events and of far countries , of the news of yesterday and the news of to morrow . 
The talk about the dead and the living about those who fought and those who loved . 
Lakamba came out on the platform before his own house and sat down perspiring , half asleep , and sulky in a wooden armchair under the shade of the overhanging eaves . 
Through the darkness of the doorway he could hear the soft warbling of his womenkind , busy round the looms where they were weaving the checkered pattern of his gala sarongs . 
A boy of about twelve the personal attendant of Lakamba squatted at his master's feet and held up towards him a silver siri box . 
Those men who were standing stirred uneasily as if prodded by the sound of the chief's voice . 
The one nearest to Lakamba repeated the call , after a while , over the rail into the courtyard . 
There was a movement of upturned faces below by the fires , and the cry trailed over the enclosure in sing song tones . 
The thumping of wooden pestles husking the evening rice stopped for a moment and Babalatchi's name rang afresh shrilly on women's lips in various keys . 
A voice far off shouted something another , nearer , repeated it there was a short hubbub which died out with extreme suddenness . 
The first crier turned to Lakamba , saying indolently He is with the blind Omar . 
Babalatchi had gone to see old Omar late in the afternoon . 
That day when he left his own bamboo hut which stood amongst others in Lakamba's campong his heart was heavy with anxiety and with doubt as to the success of his intrigue . 
That gate gave access to a separate enclosure in which a rather large house , built of planks , had been prepared by Lakamba's orders for the reception of Omar and Aissa . 
It was a superior kind of habitation which Lakamba intended for the dwelling of his chief adviser whose abilities were worth that honour , he thought . 
Babalatchi did not mind in the least the putting off of his own occupation of the house of honour , because it had many advantages for the quiet working out of his plans . 
The only communication with the river was through the great front courtyard always full of armed men and watchful eyes . 
Babalatchi slipped quietly through the little gate and , closing it , tied up carefully the rattan fastenings . 
Before the house there was a square space of ground , beaten hard into the level smoothness of asphalte . 
Babalatchi took in the courtyard with a keen glance of his solitary eye , and without looking down at the old woman muttered a question . 
Silently , the woman stretched a tremulous and emaciated arm towards the hut . 
Babalatchi made a few steps towards the doorway , but stopped outside in the sunlight . 
There was a rude seat under the tree , and there Babalatchi led his old chief , who sat down with a sigh of relief and leaned wearily against the rugged trunk . 
Is the sun near its setting ? asked Omar , in a dull voice . 
Very near , answered Babalatchi . 
And the sun is near its setting and I have not heard the sound of her footsteps since the morning ! Twice a strange hand has given me my food to day . 
Why ? Why ? Where is she ? She is near , said Babalatchi . 
And he ? went on Omar , with sudden eagerness , and a drop in his voice . 
Where is he ? Not here . 
Not here ! he repeated , turning his head from side to side as if in deliberate attempt to see . 
No ! He is not here now , said Babalatchi , soothingly . 
Then , after a pause , he added very low , But he shall soon return . 
Return ! O crafty one ! Will he return ? I have cursed him three times , exclaimed Omar , with weak violence . 
He is no doubt accursed , assented Babalatchi , in a conciliating manner and yet he will be here before very long I know ! You are crafty and faithless . 
I have made you great . 
You were dirt under my feet less than dirt , said Omar , with tremulous energy . 
I have fought by your side many times , said Babalatchi , calmly . 
Why did he come ? went on Omar . 
Hard and merciless and stealthy like rocks that tear a ship's life out under the smooth sea . 
He drew a long breath , struggled with his anger , then broke down suddenly . 
I have been hungry , he continued , in a whimpering tone often I have been very hungry and cold and neglected and nobody near me . 
She has often forgotten me and my sons are dead , and that man is an infidel and a dog . 
Why did he come ? Did you show him the way ? He found the way himself , O Leader of the brave , said Babalatchi , sadly . 
I only saw a way for their destruction and our own greatness . 
And if I saw aright , then you shall never suffer from hunger any more . 
There shall be peace for us , and glory and riches . 
And I shall die to morrow , murmured Omar , bitterly . 
Who knows ? Those things have been written since the beginning of the world , whispered Babalatchi , thoughtfully . 
Do not let him come back , exclaimed Omar . 
Neither can he escape his fate , went on Babalatchi . 
He shall come back , and the power of men we always hated , you and I , shall crumble into dust in our hand . 
Then he added with enthusiasm , They shall fight amongst themselves and perish both . 
And you shall see all this , while , I . 
True ! murmured Babalatchi , regretfully . 
To you life is darkness . 
No ! Flame ! exclaimed the old Arab , half rising , then falling back in his seat . 
The flame of that last day ! I see it yet the last thing I saw ! And I hear the noise of the rent earth when they all died . 
And I live to be the plaything of a crafty one , he added , with inconsequential peevishness . 
You are my master still , said Babalatchi , humbly . 
But he will be here . 
There has been a surat delivered to Lakamba . 
In it , Syed Abdulla says he will leave his ship , which is anchored outside the river , at the hour of noon to day . 
He will be here before daylight if Allah wills . 
He spoke with his eye fixed on the ground , and did not become aware of Aissa's presence till he lifted his head when he ceased speaking . 
Omar sat absorbed in thought . 
Ay wa ! Even so ! he said at last , in a weak voice . 
I am to speak your wisdom , O Babalatchi ! Tell him to trust the white man ! I do not understand . 
I am old and blind and weak . 
I am very cold , he continued , in a lower tone , moving his shoulders uneasily . 
He ceased , then went on rambling in a faint whisper . 
They are the sons of witches , and their father is Satan the stoned . 
After a short silence he asked suddenly , in a firmer voice How many white men are there here , O crafty one ? There are two here . 
Two white men to fight one another , answered Babalatchi , with alacrity . 
And how many will be left then ? How many ? Tell me , you who are wise . 
The downfall of an enemy is the consolation of the unfortunate , said Babalatchi , sententiously . 
They are on every sea only the wisdom of the Most High knows their number but you shall know that some of them suffer . 
Tell me , Babalatchi , will they die ? Will they both die ? asked Omar , in sudden agitation . 
Babalatchi held up a warning hand . 
They shall , surely , die , he said steadily , looking at the girl with unflinching eye . 
Ay wa ! But die soon ! So that I can pass my hand over their faces when Allah has made them stiff . 
If such is their fate and yours , answered Babalatchi , without hesitation . 
Then he leaned back against the tree , exhausted . 
I am alone , I am alone , he wailed feebly , groping vaguely about with his trembling hands . 
Is there anybody near me ? Is there anybody ? I am afraid of this strange place . 
I am by your side , O Leader of the brave , said Babalatchi , touching his shoulder lightly . 
Always by your side as in the days when we both were young as in the time when we both went with arms in our hands . 
Has there been such a time , Babalatchi ? said Omar , wildly I have forgotten . 
And now when I die there will be no man , no fearless man to speak of his father's bravery . 
There was a woman ! A woman ! And she has forsaken me for an infidel dog . 
It is the time of prayer , said Omar , attempting to get up . 
Dutifully Babalatchi helped his old chief to rise , and they walked slowly towards the hut . 
Omar waited outside , while Babalatchi went in and came out directly , dragging after him the old Arab's praying carpet . 
Then as Omar droned out the first words and made his first bow towards the Holy City , Babalatchi stepped noiselessly towards Aissa , who did not move all the time . 
Aissa looked steadily at the one eyed sage , who was approaching her slowly and with a great show of deference . 
For a moment they stood facing each other in silence . 
This morning Bulangi went with a canoe to look for him . 
He is a strange man , but our friend , and shall keep close to him and watch him without ostentation . 
And at the third hour of the day I have sent another canoe with four rowers . 
Indeed , the man you long for , O daughter of Omar ! may come when he likes . 
But he is not here ! I waited for him yesterday . 
To day ! To morrow I shall go . 
Not alive ! muttered Babalatchi to himself . 
And do you doubt your power , he went on in a louder tone you that to him are more beautiful than an houri of the seventh Heaven ? He is your slave . 
A slave does run away sometimes , she said , gloomily , and then the master must go and seek him out . 
And do you want to live and die a beggar ? asked Babalatchi , impatiently . 
I care not , she exclaimed , wringing her hands and the black pupils of her wide open eyes darted wildly here and there like petrels before the storm . 
Sh ! Sh ! hissed Babalatchi , with a glance towards Omar . 
Do you think , O girl ! that he himself would live like a beggar , even with you ? He is great , she said , ardently . 
Then Babalatchi cocked his head on one side and appeared to listen intently to the hum of voices in the big courtyard . 
Aissa and Babalatchi started , but the latter gripped in his turn the girl's arm and restrained her with a strong grasp . 
His turban was half unrolled , and the end trailed on the ground behind him . 
He breathed thickly for a moment before he spoke . 
He came in Bulangi's boat , he said , and walked quietly till he was in my presence , when the senseless fury of white men caused him to rush upon me . 
I have been in great danger , went on the ambitious nobleman in an aggrieved tone . 
Do you hear that , Babalatchi ? That eater of swine aimed a blow at my face with his unclean fist . 
He tried to rush amongst my household . 
Six men are holding him now . 
A fresh outburst of yells stopped Lakamba's discourse . 
Angry voices shouted Hold him . 
Listen , said Lakamba , speaking with unsteady lips , he blasphemes his God . 
His speech is like the raving of a mad dog . 
It is the third day , and I have kept my promise , he said to her , speaking very low . 
Lakamba and Babalatchi looked after her . 
The old woman , who had been most of the time kneeling by the fire , now rose , glanced round fearfully and crouched hiding behind the tree . 
The gate of the great courtyard flew open with a great clatter before a frantic kick , and Willems darted in carrying Aissa in his arms . 
Inside and outside the enclosure there was silence . 
Omar lay supporting himself on his elbow , his terrified face with its closed eyes giving him the appearance of a man tormented by a nightmare . 
What is it ? Help ! Help me to rise ! he called out faintly . 
The old hag , still crouching in the shadow , stared with bleared eyes at the doorway of the big house , and took no notice of his call . 
He listened for a while , then his arm gave way , and , with a deep sigh of discouragement , he let himself fall on the carpet . 
The boughs of the tree nodded and trembled in the unsteady currents of the light wind . 
CHAPTER THREE For upwards of forty years Abdulla had walked in the way of his Lord . 
That was in the days when steam was not in those seas or , at least , not so much as now . 
The voyage was long , and the young man's eyes were opened to the wonders of many lands . 
Allah had made it his fate to become a pilgrim very early in life . 
Later on it became clear that the book of his destiny contained the programme of a wandering life . 
He bore himself with the humility becoming a Believer , who never forgets , even for one moment of his waking life , that he is the servant of the Most High . 
He was very handsome , and carried his small head high with meek gravity . 
His lofty brow , straight nose , narrow , dark face with its chiselled delicacy of feature , gave him an aristocratic appearance which proclaimed his pure descent . 
His beard was trimmed close and to a rounded point . 
His large brown eyes looked out steadily with a sweetness that was belied by the expression of his thin lipped mouth . 
He had a belief in his own prosperity which nothing could shake . 
Restless , like all his people , he very seldom dwelt for many days together in his splendid house in Penang . 
Owner of ships , he was often on board one or another of them , traversing in all directions the field of his operations . 
In every port he had a household his own or that of a relation to hail his advent with demonstrative joy . 
And the news was always good , and all his attempts always succeeded , and in his ears there rang always a chorus of admiration , of gratitude , of humble entreaties . 
For the last few months he had been receiving mysterious messages from Sambir urging him to decisive action . 
Meantime he returned encouraging answers to his unknown friends in Sambir , and waited for his opportunity in the calm certitude of ultimate triumph . 
Such was the man whom Lakamba and Babalatchi expected to see for the first time on the night of Willems' return to Aissa . 
Half way between Lakamba's house and the river a pile of dry wood was made ready for the torch that would set fire to it at the moment of Abdulla's landing . 
Two little fires burned brightly on the water's edge on each side of the landing place . 
At last there was heard a loud hail from down the river . 
In the short moment of his passing from the boat to the shore they exchanged sharp glances and a few rapid words . 
Who are you ? Babalatchi . 
Babalatchi followed close behind his protector . 
Abdulla was accompanied by two Arabs . 
He , like his companions , was dressed in a white robe of starched muslin , which fell in stiff folds straight from the neck . 
It was buttoned from the throat halfway down with a close row of very small gold buttons round the tight sleeves there was a narrow braid of gold lace . 
On his shaven head he wore a small skull cap of plaited grass . 
He was shod in patent leather slippers over his naked feet . 
A rosary of heavy wooden beads hung by a round turn from his right wrist . 
He sat down slowly in the place of honour , and , dropping his slippers , tucked up his legs under him decorously . 
The improvised divan was arranged in a wide semi circle , of which the point most distant from the fire some ten yards was also the nearest to Lakamba's dwelling . 
As soon as the principal personages were seated , the verandah of the house was filled silently by the muffled up forms of Lakamba's female belongings . 
They crowded close to the rail and looked down , whispering faintly . 
Below , the formal exchange of compliments went on for some time between Lakamba and Abdulla , who sat side by side . 
Babalatchi squatted humbly at his protector's feet , with nothing but a thin mat between himself and the hard ground . 
Then there was a pause . 
Warming up with his subject as the narrative proceeded , Babalatchi went on to relate the facts connected with Lingard's action at the critical period of those internal dissensions . 
He spoke in a restrained voice still , but with a growing energy of indignation . 
That unbeliever kept the Faithful panting under the weight of his senseless oppression . 
They had to trade with him accept such goods as he would give such credit as he would accord . 
And he exacted payment every year . 
Very true ! exclaimed Sahamin and Bahassoen together . 
Babalatchi glanced at them approvingly and turned to Abdulla . 
Listen to those men , O Protector of the oppressed ! he exclaimed . 
What could we do ? A man must trade . 
Sahamin got up , staff in hand , and spoke to Abdulla with ponderous courtesy , emphasizing his words by the solemn flourishes of his right arm . 
We are weary of paying our debts to that white man here , who is the son of the Rajah Laut . 
That white man may the grave of his mother be defiled ! is not content to hold us all in his hand with a cruel grasp . 
He seeks to cause our very death . 
He trades with the Dyaks of the forest , who are no better than monkeys . 
He buys from them guttah and rattans while we starve . 
Bring your goods quickly , and I shall receive them in payment of what you owe me from last year . 
And he laughed , and struck me on the shoulder with his open hand . 
May Jehannum be his lot ! We will fight him , said young Bahassoen , crisply . 
We shall fight if there is help and a leader . 
Tuan Abdulla , will you come among us ? Abdulla did not answer at once . 
His lips moved in an inaudible whisper and the beads passed through his fingers with a dry click . 
All waited in respectful silence . 
I shall come if my ship can enter this river , said Abdulla at last , in a solemn tone . 
It can , Tuan , exclaimed Babalatchi . 
There is a white man here who . 
I want to see Omar el Badavi and that white man you wrote about , interrupted Abdulla . 
Babalatchi got on his feet quickly , and there was a general move . 
One of them , at a sign from Babalatchi , approached and , after getting his orders , went towards the little gate and entered Omar's enclosure . 
While waiting for his return , Lakamba , Abdulla , and Babalatchi talked together in low tones . 
Sahamin sat by himself chewing betel nut sleepily with a slight and indolent motion of his heavy jaw . 
The messenger who had been sent to Omar came back and stood at a distance , waiting till somebody noticed him . 
What are his words ? asked Babalatchi . 
He says that Syed Abdulla is welcome now , answered the man . 
Lakamba was speaking low to Abdulla , who listened to him with deep interest . 
We could have eighty men if there was need , he was saying eighty men in fourteen canoes . 
The only thing we want is gunpowder . 
Hai ! there will be no fighting , broke in Babalatchi . 
The fear of your name will be enough and the terror of your coming . 
There may be powder too , muttered Abdulla with great nonchalance , if only the ship enters the river safely . 
If the heart is stout the ship will be safe , said Babalatchi . 
We will go now and see Omar el Badavi and the white man I have here . 
Lakamba's dull eyes became animated suddenly . 
Take care , Tuan Abdulla , he said , take care . 
The behaviour of that unclean white madman is furious in the extreme . 
On my head , you are safe , O Giver of alms ! interrupted Babalatchi . 
Abdulla looked from one to the other , and the faintest flicker of a passing smile disturbed for a moment his grave composure . 
He turned to Babalatchi , and said with decision Let us go . 
This way , O Uplifter of our hearts ! rattled on Babalatchi , with fussy deference . 
Only a very few paces and you shall behold Omar the brave , and a white man of great strength and cunning . 
He made a sign for Lakamba to remain behind , and with respectful touches on the elbow steered Abdulla towards the gate at the upper end of the court yard . 
When near the gate Babalatchi moved forward and stopped , facing Abdulla , with his hand on the fastenings . 
You shall see them both , he said . 
All my words about them are true . 
When I saw him enslaved by the one of whom I spoke , I knew he would be soft in my hand like the mud of the river . 
At first he answered my talk with bad words of his own language , after the manner of white men . 
Afterwards , when listening to the voice he loved , he hesitated . 
He hesitated for many days too many . 
I , knowing him well , made Omar withdraw here with his . 
Then this red faced man raged for three days like a black panther that is hungry . 
And this evening , this very evening , he came . 
He is in the grasp of one with a merciless heart . 
I have him here , ended Babalatchi , exultingly tapping the upright of the gate with his hand . 
That is good , murmured Abdulla . 
And he shall guide your ship and lead in the fight if fight there be , went on Babalatchi . 
If there is any killing let him be the slayer . 
You should give him arms a short gun that fires many times . 
Yes , by Allah ! assented Abdulla , with slow thoughtfulness . 
And you will have to open your hand , O First amongst the generous ! continued Babalatchi . 
You will have to satisfy the rapacity of a white man , and also of one who is not a man , and therefore greedy of ornaments . 
They shall be satisfied , said Abdulla but . 
He hesitated , looking down on the ground and stroking his beard , while Babalatchi waited , anxious , with parted lips . 
After a short time he spoke again jerkily in an indistinct whisper , so that Babalatchi had to turn his head to catch the words . 
But Omar is the son of my father's uncle . 
and all belonging to him are of the Faith . 
while that man is an unbeliever . 
He cannot live under my shadow . 
Penitence ! I take refuge with my God , he mumbled rapidly . 
Bahassoen , his head proudly thrown back , his ornaments , embroideries , and sword hilt flashing in the light , circled steadily round the fire like a planet round the sun . 
A cool whiff of damp air came from the darkness of the riverside it made Abdulla and Babalatchi shiver , and woke them up from their abstraction . 
Open the gate and go first , said Abdulla there is no danger ? On my life , no ! answered Babalatchi , lifting the rattan ring . 
He is all peace and content , like a thirsty man who has drunk water after many days . 
He swung the gate wide , made a few paces into the gloom of the enclosure , and retraced his steps suddenly . 
He may be made useful in many ways , he whispered to Abdulla , who had stopped short , seeing him come back . 
O Sin ! O Temptation ! sighed out Abdulla , faintly . 
Our refuge is with the Most High . 
Can I feed this infidel for ever and for ever ? he added , impatiently . 
No , breathed out Babalatchi . 
No ! Not for ever . 
Only while he serves your designs , O Dispenser of Allah's gifts ! When the time comes and your order . 
He sidled close to Abdulla , and brushed with a delicate touch the hand that hung down listlessly , holding the prayer beads . 
I am your slave and your offering , he murmured , in a distinct and polite tone , into Abdulla's ear . 
When your wisdom speaks , there may be found a little poison that will not lie . 
He did it unwillingly , although he did not ignore that what was going to happen in there was now absolutely beyond his control . 
Sitting there he could hear the murmur of the talk inside the hut , and he could distinguish the voices but not the words . 
Abdulla spoke in deep tones , and now and then this flowing monotone was interrupted by a querulous exclamation , a weak moan or a plaintive quaver of the old man . 
It was annoying not to be able to make out what they were saying , thought Babalatchi , as he sat gazing fixedly at the unsteady glow of the fire . 
But it will be right . 
Abdulla inspired him with confidence . 
He came up fully to his expectation . 
From the very first moment when he set his eye on him he felt sure that this man whom he had known by reputation only was very resolute . 
Perhaps he would want to grasp too much later on . 
A shadow flitted over Babalatchi's face . 
On the eve of the accomplishment of his desires he felt the bitter taste of that drop of doubt which is mixed with the sweetness of every success . 
When , hearing footsteps on the verandah of the big house , he lifted his head , the shadow had passed away and on his face there was an expression of watchful alertness . 
Willems was coming down the plankway , into the courtyard . 
The light within trickled through the cracks of the badly joined walls of the house , and in the illuminated doorway appeared the moving form of Aissa . 
She also passed into the night outside and disappeared from view . 
Babalatchi wondered where she had got to , and for the moment forgot the approach of Willems . 
The voice of the white man speaking roughly above his head made him jump to his feet as if impelled upwards by a powerful spring . 
Where's Abdulla ? Babalatchi waved his hand towards the hut and stood listening intently . 
The voices within had ceased , then recommenced again . 
He shot an oblique glance at Willems , whose indistinct form towered above the glow of dying embers . 
Make up this fire , said Willems , abruptly . 
I want to see your face . 
With obliging alacrity Babalatchi put some dry brushwood on the coals from a handy pile , keeping all the time a watchful eye on Willems . 
You are in good health , please God ? he murmured . 
Yes ! answered Willems , with an unexpected loudness that caused Babalatchi to start nervously . 
He made a long stride and dropped both his hands on the Malay's shoulders . 
In the powerful grip Babalatchi swayed to and fro limply , but his face was as peaceful as when he sat a little while ago dreaming by the fire . 
With a final vicious jerk Willems let go suddenly , and turning away on his heel stretched his hands over the fire . 
Babalatchi stumbled backwards , recovered himself , and wriggled his shoulders laboriously . 
Tse ! Tse ! Tse ! he clicked , deprecatingly . 
I will let you have it without any recompense because she must have a shelter . 
Therefore you and she shall live here . 
I said 'Gladden my heart by taking my house . 
I will wring your neck . 
When the heart is full of love there is no room in it for justice , recommenced Babalatchi , with unmoved and persistent softness . 
Why slay me ? You know , Tuan , what she wants . 
A splendid destiny is her desire as of all women . 
You have been wronged and cast out by your people . 
But you are brave , you are strong you are a man and , Tuan I am older than you you are in her hand . 
Such is the fate of strong men . 
And she is of noble birth and cannot live like a slave . 
You know her and you are in her hand . 
You are like a snared bird , because of your strength . 
And remember I am a man that has seen much submit , Tuan ! Submit ! . 
He drawled out the last words in a hesitating manner and broke off his sentence . 
Who knows ? finished Babalatchi , in a gentle and insinuating tone . 
This time Willems spun round sharply . 
If she does it will be the worse for you , said Willems , in a menacing voice . 
It will be your doing , and I . 
Babalatchi spoke , from beyond the circle of light , with calm disdain . 
Hai ya ! I have heard before . 
If she goes then I die . 
Willems gasped and started back like a confident wayfarer who , pursuing a path he thinks safe , should see just in time a bottomless chasm under his feet . 
You threaten me , said Willems , indistinctly . 
I , Tuan ! exclaimed Babalatchi , with a slight suspicion of irony in the affected surprise of his tone . 
I , Tuan ? Who spoke of death ? Was it I ? No ! I spoke of life only . 
Fatalism is born of the fear of failure , for we all believe that we carry success in our own hands , and we suspect that our hands are weak . 
Babalatchi looked at Willems and congratulated himself upon his ability to manage that white man . 
There was a pilot for Abdulla a victim to appease Lingard's anger in case of any mishap . 
He would take good care to put him forward in everything . 
In any case let the white men fight it out amongst themselves . 
He hated them the strong fools and knew that for his righteous wisdom was reserved the safe triumph . 
Willems measured dismally the depth of his degradation . 
He a white man , the admired of white men , was held by those miserable savages whose tool he was about to become . 
He felt for them all the hate of his race , of his morality , of his intelligence . 
He looked upon himself with dismay and pity . 
He had heard of such things . 
He had heard of women who . 
He would never believe such stories . 
But his own captivity seemed more complete , terrible , and final without the hope of any redemption . 
He wondered at the wickedness of Providence that had made him what he was that , worse still , permitted such a creature as Almayer to live . 
He had done his duty by going to him . 
Why did he not understand ? All men were fools . 
He gave him his chance . 
The fellow did not see it . 
It was hard , very hard on himself Willems . 
He wanted to take her from amongst her own people . 
That's why he had condescended to go to Almayer . 
With a sinking heart he thought that really he could not somehow live without her . 
It was terrible and sweet . 
He remembered the first days . 
Her appearance , her face , her smile , her eyes , her words . 
A savage woman ! Yet he perceived that he could think of nothing else but of the three days of their separation , of the few hours since their reunion . 
If he could not take her away , then he would go to her . 
He had , for a moment , a wicked pleasure in the thought that what he had done could not be undone . 
He had given himself up . 
He felt proud of it . 
He was ready to face anything , do anything . 
He cared for nothing , for nobody . 
He thought himself very fearless , but as a matter of fact he was only drunk drunk with the poison of passionate memories . 
He stretched his hands over the fire , looked round and called out Aissa ! She must have been near , for she appeared at once within the light of the fire . 
Only her eyes were visible sombre and gleaming like a starry night . 
Willems , looking at this strange , muffled figure , felt exasperated , amazed and helpless . 
The ex confidential clerk of the rich Hudig would hug to his breast settled conceptions of respectable conduct . 
He sought refuge within his ideas of propriety from the dismal mangroves , from the darkness of the forests and of the heathen souls of the savages that were his masters . 
She looked like an animated package of cheap cotton goods ! It made him furious . 
She had disguised herself so because a man of her race was near ! He told her not to do it , and she did not obey . 
Would his ideas ever change so as to agree with her own notions of what was becoming , proper and respectable ? He was really afraid they would , in time . 
It seemed to him awful . 
She would never change ! This manifestation of her sense of proprieties was another sign of their hopeless diversity something like another step downwards for him . 
She was too different from him . 
and he could not live without her . 
The courageous man who stood facing Babalatchi gasped unexpectedly with a gasp that was half a groan . 
This little matter of her veiling herself against his wish acted upon him like a disclosure of some great disaster . 
It increased his contempt for himself as the slave of a passion he had always derided , as the man unable to assert his will . 
This will , all his sensations , his personality all this seemed to be lost in the abominable desire , in the priceless promise of that woman . 
The ignorant must feel and suffer from their complexity as well as the wisest but to them the pain of struggle and defeat appears strange , mysterious , remediable and unjust . 
He stood watching her , watching himself . 
He tingled with rage from head to foot , as if he had been struck in the face . 
Suddenly he laughed but his laugh was like a distorted echo of some insincere mirth very far away . 
From the other side of the fire Babalatchi spoke hurriedly Here is Tuan Abdulla . 
CHAPTER FIVE Directly on stepping outside Omar's hut Abdulla caught sight of Willems . 
He expected , of course , to see a white man , but not that white man , whom he knew so well . 
Everybody who traded in the islands , and who had any dealings with Hudig , knew Willems . 
So everybody knew Willems , Abdulla amongst others but he was ignorant of Willems' disgrace . 
Abdulla , in his surprise , hesitated on the threshold . 
He had prepared himself to see some seaman some old officer of Lingard's a common man perhaps difficult to deal with , but still no match for him . 
Instead , he saw himself confronted by an individual whose reputation for sagacity in business was well known to him . 
How did he get here , and why ? Abdulla , recovering from his surprise , advanced in a dignified manner towards the fire , keeping his eyes fixed steadily on Willems . 
When within two paces from Willems he stopped and lifted his right hand in grave salutation . 
Willems nodded slightly and spoke after a while . 
We know each other , Tuan Abdulla , he said , with an assumption of easy indifference . 
We have traded together , answered Abdulla , solemnly , but it was far from here . 
And we may trade here also , said Willems . 
The place does not matter . 
It is the open mind and the true heart that are required in business . 
My heart is as open as my mind . 
I will tell you why I am here . 
What need is there ? In leaving home one learns life . 
Travelling is victory ! You shall return with much wisdom . 
I shall never return , interrupted Willems . 
I have done with my people . 
I am a man without brothers . 
Abdulla expressed his surprise by elevating his eyebrows . 
In a voice that was much deadened by her wrappings she addressed Abdulla in a few words of greeting , calling him a kinsman . 
Abdulla glanced at her swiftly for a second , and then , with perfect good breeding , fixed his eyes on the ground . 
She put out towards him her hand , covered with a corner of her face veil , and he took it , pressed it twice , and dropping it turned towards Willems . 
She looked at the two men searchingly , then backed away and seemed to melt suddenly into the night . 
I know what you came for , Tuan Abdulla , said Willems I have been told by that man there . 
He nodded towards Babalatchi , then went on slowly , It will be a difficult thing . 
Allah makes everything easy , interjected Babalatchi , piously , from a distance . 
The two men turned quickly and stood looking at him thoughtfully , as if in deep consideration of the truth of that proposition . 
Under their sustained gaze Babalatchi experienced an unwonted feeling of shyness , and dared not approach nearer . 
At last Willems moved slightly , Abdulla followed readily , and they both walked down the courtyard , their voices dying away in the darkness . 
Soon they were heard returning , and the voices grew distinct as their forms came out of the gloom . 
By the fire they wheeled again , and Babalatchi caught a few words . 
Willems was saying I have been at sea with him many years when young . 
I have used my knowledge to observe the way into the river when coming in , this time . 
Abdulla assented in general terms . 
In the variety of knowledge there is safety , he said and then they passed out of earshot . 
Babalatchi ran to the tree and took up his position in the solid blackness under its branches , leaning against the trunk . 
There he was about midway between the fire and the other limit of the two men's walk . 
They passed and repassed close to Babalatchi some half a dozen times , and , whenever they were between him and the fire , he could see them plain enough . 
Now and then Babalatchi caught a word here and there , a fragment of a sentence , a loud exclamation . 
Impelled by curiosity he crept to the very edge of the black shadow under the tree . 
They were nearing him , and he heard Willems say You will pay that money as soon as I come on board . 
He could not catch Abdulla's reply . 
When they went past again , Willems was saying My life is in your hand anyway . 
The boat that brings me on board your ship shall take the money to Omar . 
You must have it ready in a sealed bag . 
Again they were out of hearing , but instead of coming back they stopped by the fire facing each other . 
Willems moved his arm , shook his hand on high talking all the time , then brought it down jerkily stamped his foot . 
A short period of immobility ensued . 
Babalatchi , gazing intently , saw Abdulla's lips move almost imperceptibly . 
Suddenly Willems seized the Arab's passive hand and shook it . 
Babalatchi drew the long breath of relieved suspense . 
He ventured now to approach the two men , who saw him and waited in silence . 
Willems had retired within himself already , and wore a look of grim indifference . 
Abdulla moved away a step or two . 
Babalatchi looked at him inquisitively . 
I go now , said Abdulla , and shall wait for you outside the river , Tuan Willems , till the second sunset . 
You have only one word , I know . 
Only one word , repeated Willems . 
Abdulla and Babalatchi walked together down the enclosure , leaving the white man alone by the fire . 
Abdulla said It is well . 
We have spoken of many things . 
When ? asked Babalatchi , eagerly . 
On the second day from this . 
I have promised every thing . 
I mean to keep much . 
Your hand is always open , O Most Generous amongst Believers ! You will not forget your servant who called you here . 
Have I not spoken the truth ? She has made roast meat of his heart . 
Till when ? whispered Babalatchi . 
Till I speak , said Abdulla . 
He hesitated for a moment , then went on very low He is very old . 
Hai ya ! Old and sick , murmured Babalatchi , with sudden melancholy . 
He wanted me to kill that white man . 
He begged me to have him killed at once , said Abdulla , contemptuously , moving again towards the gate . 
He is impatient , like those who feel death near them , exclaimed Babalatchi , apologetically . 
Omar shall dwell with me , went on Abdulla , when . 
Remember ! The white man must be safe . 
He lives in your shadow , answered Babalatchi , solemnly . 
It is enough ! He touched his forehead and fell back to let Abdulla go first . 
And now they are back in the courtyard wherefrom , at their appearance , listlessness vanishes , and all the faces become alert and interested once more . 
Lakamba approaches his guest , but looks at Babalatchi , who reassures him by a confident nod . 
Syed Abdulla presses his host's hand to his breast , and informs him in a confidential murmur that his habits are ascetic and his temperament inclines to melancholy . 
No rest no food no use whatever for those many men who are his . 
Syed Abdulla is impatient to be gone . 
Lakamba is sorrowful but polite , in his hesitating , gloomy way . 
Tuan Abdulla must have fresh boatmen , and many , to shorten the dark and fatiguing road . 
Hai ya ! There ! Boats ! By the riverside indistinct forms leap into a noisy and disorderly activity . 
There are cries , orders , banter , abuse . 
Torches blaze sending out much more smoke than light , and in their red glare Babalatchi comes up to say that the boats are ready . 
Syed Abdulla says so distinctly before embarking , and takes his seat in the middle of the canoe under a small canopy of blue calico stretched on four sticks . 
Before and behind Syed Abdulla , the men squatting by the gunwales hold high the blades of their paddles in readiness for a dip , all together . 
Hold on all ! Syed Abdulla speaks again , while Lakamba and Babalatchi stand close on the bank to hear his words . 
They are in the hands of the Compassionate . 
waits for its owner , and swings erratically at anchor in the currents of the capricious tide , under the crumbling red cliffs of Tanjong Mirrah . 
For some time Lakamba , Sahamin , and Bahassoen looked silently into the humid darkness which had swallowed the big canoe that carried Abdulla and his unvarying good fortune . 
Then the two guests broke into a talk expressive of their joyful anticipations . 
The venerable Sahamin , as became his advanced age , found his delight in speculation as to the activities of a rather remote future . 
Meantime it would be a good thing to interview Almayer to morrow and , profiting by the last day of the hated man's prosperity , obtain some goods from him on credit . 
Sahamin thought it could be done by skilful wheedling . 
After all , that son of Satan was a fool , and the thing was worth doing , because the coming revolution would wipe all debts out . 
Sahamin did not mind imparting that idea to his companions , with much senile chuckling , while they strolled together from the riverside towards the residence . 
But suddenly Bahassoen broke in upon the old man's prattle with the generous enthusiasm of his youth . 
But was the change that would make them happy effected yet ? The white man should be despoiled with a strong hand ! . 
Babalatchi remained behind , alone with the greatness of his conceptions . 
The sagacious statesman of Sambir sent a scornful glance after his noble protector and his noble protector's friends , and then stood meditating about that future which to the others seemed so assured . 
Not so to Babalatchi , who paid the penalty of his wisdom by a vague sense of insecurity that kept sleep at arm's length from his tired body . 
Standing there , he could look over the fence and see Omar's hut and the fire before its door . 
He could also see the shadow of two human beings sitting between him and the red glow . 
A man and a woman . 
The sight seemed to inspire the careworn sage with a frivolous desire to sing . 
It had all the imperfections of unskilful improvisation and its subject was gruesome . 
It told a tale of shipwreck and of thirst , and of one brother killing another for the sake of a gourd of water . 
A repulsive story which might have had a purpose but possessed no moral whatever . 
There was in the thick foliage above the singer's head a confused beating of wings , sleepy remarks in bird language , a sharp stir of leaves . 
The forms by the fire moved the shadow of the woman altered its shape , and Babalatchi's song was cut short abruptly by a fit of soft and persistent coughing . 
He did not try to resume his efforts after that interruption , but went away stealthily to seek if not sleep then , at least , repose . 
CHAPTER SIX As soon as Abdulla and his companions had left the enclosure , Aissa approached Willems and stood by his side . 
She looked at him with the faint smile of patient curiosity , with the puzzled interest of ignorance watching the running of a complicated piece of machinery . 
and to run away from me again , he said gently . 
He looked on , eager charmed . 
What am I to say to a man who has been away three days from me ? Three ! she repeated , holding up playfully three fingers before Willems' eyes . 
He snatched at the hand , but she was on her guard and whisked it behind her back . 
I am coming myself because I like . 
Do not touch me with your mighty hands , O child ! As she spoke she made a step nearer , then another . 
Pressing against him she stood on tiptoe to look into his eyes , and her own seemed to grow bigger , glistening and tender , appealing and promising . 
He never stirred a limb , hardly breathed , but stood in stiff immobility , absorbing the delight of her close contact by every pore . 
Closer ! Closer ! he murmured . 
Slowly she raised her arms , put them over his shoulders , and clasping her hands at the back of his neck , swung off the full length of her arms . 
Her head fell back , the eyelids dropped slightly , and her thick hair hung straight down a mass of ebony touched by the red gleams of the fire . 
She drew herself up to him and rubbed her head against his cheek slowly and gently . 
She , with her hands still on his shoulders , glanced up at the placid stars and said The night is half gone . 
We shall finish it by this fire . 
By this fire you shall tell me all your words and Syed Abdulla's words and listening to you I shall forget the three days because I am good . 
Tell me am I good ? He said Yes dreamily , and she ran off towards the big house . 
She sank down with a quick but gracefully controlled movement , and he threw himself full length with impatient haste , as if he wished to forestall somebody . 
His hands strayed upwards about her neck , and he drew her down so as to have her face above his . 
Then he whispered I wish I could die like this now ! She looked at him with her big sombre eyes , in which there was no responsive light . 
His thought was so remote from her understanding that she let the words pass by unnoticed , like the breath of the wind , like the flight of a cloud . 
With her brows slightly knitted in the determined preoccupation of her own desires , she said Now tell me all . 
All the words spoken between you and Syed Abdulla . 
Not that he had any conviction about it , any notion of the possible ending on that painful road . 
He was ashamed of his state of mind . 
After all , what was he afraid of ? Were those scruples ? Why that hesitation to think , to speak of what he intended doing ? Scruples were for imbeciles . 
His clear duty was to make himself happy . 
Did he ever take an oath of fidelity to Lingard ? No. Well then he would not let any interest of that old fool stand between Willems and Willems' happiness . 
Happiness ? Was he not , perchance , on a false track ? Happiness meant money . 
At least he had always thought so till he had experienced those new sensations which . 
She , with her head close to his lips , listened absorbed , interested , in attentive immobility . 
The many noises of the great courtyard were hushed up gradually by the sleep that stilled all voices and closed all eyes . 
Then somebody droned out a song with a nasal drawl at the end of every verse . 
She put her hand suddenly on his lips and sat upright . 
Who was there making that noise ? he asked . 
He is gone now , she answered , hastily . 
Tell me , you will not return to your people not without me . 
Do you promise ? I have promised already . 
I have no people of my own . 
I am afraid of white women who are shameless and have fierce eyes . 
She scanned his features close for a moment and added Are they very beautiful ? They must be . 
I do not know , he whispered , thoughtfully . 
And if I ever did know , looking at you I have forgotten . 
Somebody in the land whence you come . 
You are white indeed , and your heart is full of deception . 
And yet I cannot help believing you when you talk of your love for me . 
But I am afraid ! He felt flattered and annoyed by her vehemence , and said Well , I am with you now . 
And it was you that went away . 
When you have helped Abdulla against the Rajah Laut , who is the first of white men , I shall not be afraid any more , she whispered . 
You must believe what I say when I tell you that there never was another woman that there is nothing for me to regret , and nothing but my enemies to remember . 
Where do you come from ? she said , impulsive and inconsequent , in a passionate whisper . 
What is that land beyond the great sea from which you come ? A land of lies and of evil from which nothing but misfortune ever comes to us who are not white . 
Did you not at first ask me to go there with you ? That is why I went away . 
I shall never ask you again . 
And there is no woman waiting for you there ? No ! said Willems , firmly . 
Her lips hovered above his face and her long hair brushed his cheeks . 
There was a long interval of silence . 
He felt a desire to see him vanish , a hurried impatience of his disappearance , and he watched for it with a careful and irksome effort . 
There was something familiar about that figure . 
It had been half a dream he had slumbered in her arms for a few seconds . 
Only the beginning of a dream nothing more . 
It was like an evasion , like a prisoner breaking his parole that thing slinking off stealthily while he slept . 
He was very indignant , and was also astonished at the absurdity of his own emotions . 
She felt him tremble , and murmuring tender words , pressed his head to her breast . 
Again he felt very peaceful with a peace that was as complete as the silence round them . 
He muttered You are tired , Aissa . 
She answered so low that it was like a sigh shaped into faint words . 
I shall watch your sleep , O child ! He lay very quiet , and listened to the beating of her heart . 
There were no regrets , no doubts , no hesitation now . 
Had there ever been ? All that seemed far away , ages ago as unreal and pale as the fading memory of some delirium . 
A face with drooping eyelids , old , thin , and yellow , above the scattered white of a long beard that touched the earth . 
A mute face with a kriss between its lips . 
But why ? What was he after ? He was too indolent in the happy languor of the moment to answer the question . 
He altered the position of his head by ever so little , and now could see easily that apparition which he had seen a minute before and had nearly forgotten already . 
Omar raised himself to a kneeling posture and sank on his heels , with his hands hanging down before him . 
It was not the fear of death he had faced danger before it was not even the fear of that particular form of death . 
It was not the fear of the end , for he knew that the end would not come then . 
He felt a touch on his side . 
That contact , lighter than the caress of a mother's hand on the cheek of a sleeping child , had for him the force of a crushing blow . 
With an effort Willems took his eyes off the deathlike mask and turned them up to Aissa's head . 
She was holding him ! She too ! He felt her heart give a great leap , his head slipped down on her knees , he closed his eyes and there was nothing . 
Nothing ! It was as if she had died as though her heart had leaped out into the night , abandoning him , defenceless and alone , in an empty world . 
His head struck the ground heavily as she flung him aside in her sudden rush . 
He made an impulsive step forward , but she turned a wild face to him and called out over her shoulder Keep back ! Do not come near ! Do not . 
And he stopped short , his arms hanging lifelessly by his side , as if those words had changed him into stone . 
He was horrified and grateful drawn irresistibly to her and ready to run away . 
He could not move at first then he did not want to stir . 
He wanted to see what would happen . 
Then after a while he heard her voice speaking inside , harshly , with an agitated abruptness of tone and in answer there were groans and broken murmurs of exhaustion . 
He heard her saying violently No ! No ! Never ! And again a plaintive murmur of entreaty as of some one begging for a supreme favour , with a last breath . 
Then she said Never ! I would sooner strike it into my own heart . 
She came out , stood panting for a short moment in the doorway , and then stepped into the firelight . 
She stood facing Willems , one hand behind her back , the other raised in a gesture compelling attention , and she listened in that attitude till all was still inside the hut . 
Then she made another step forward and her hand dropped slowly . 
Nothing but misfortune , she whispered , absently , to herself . 
Nothing but misfortune to us who are not white . 
The anger and excitement died out of her face , and she looked straight at Willems with an intense and mournful gaze . 
He recovered his senses and his power of speech with a sudden start . 
Aissa , he exclaimed , and the words broke out through his lips with hurried nervousness . 
Aissa ! How can I live here ? Trust me . 
Let us go away from here . 
Go very far away ! Very far you and I ! He did not stop to ask himself whether he could escape , and how , and where . 
This feeling of repulsion overmastered his reason in a clear conviction of the impossibility for him to live with her people . 
He wanted her for himself far from everybody , in some safe and dumb solitude . 
She had a right to his love which was of her making , to the love that was in him now , while he spoke those words without sense . 
She must put between him and other white men a barrier of hate . 
He must not only stay , but he must also keep his promise to Abdulla , the fulfilment of which would make her safe . 
Aissa , let us go ! With you by my side I would attack them with my naked hands . 
Or no ! Tomorrow we shall be outside , on board Abdulla's ship . 
You shall come with me and then I could . 
If the ship went ashore by some chance , then we could steal a canoe and escape in the confusion . 
You are not afraid of the sea . 
of the sea that would give me freedom . 
He was approaching her gradually with extended arms , while he pleaded ardently in incoherent words that ran over and tripped each other in the extreme eagerness of his speech . 
He followed her step by step till at last they both stopped , facing each other under the big tree of the enclosure . 
He could not see her face , but he heard her sighs and the distracted murmur of indistinct words . 
Then , as he listened holding his breath , she exclaimed suddenly Have you heard him ? He has cursed me because I love you . 
You brought me suffering and strife and his curse . 
And now you want to take me far away where I would lose you , lose my life because your love is my life now . 
Something whizzed past and struck the ground behind him , close to the fire . 
Instinctively he turned round to look at it . 
Without thinking he moved to pick it up , stooping with the sad and humble movement of a beggar gathering the alms flung into the dust of the roadside . 
He moved forward with uncertain steps , putting out both his hands before him with the anguish of a man blinded suddenly . 
Aissa ! he cried come to me at once . 
He peered and listened , but saw nothing , heard nothing . 
With his arms thrown up , the palms against the paling , he slid down in a heap on the ground . 
Aissa , he said , pleadingly , pressing his lips to a chink between the stakes . 
Now I am afraid of you . 
When you return with Tuan Abdulla you shall be great . 
You will find me here . 
And there will be nothing but love . 
But he could not leave that gate through which she had passed . 
All through the languid stillness of that night he fought with the impalpable he fought with the shadows , with the darkness , with the silence . 
PART III CHAPTER ONE Yes ! Cat , dog , anything that can scratch or bite as long as it is harmful enough and mangy enough . 
A sick tiger would make you happy of all things . 
A half dead tiger that you could weep over and palm upon some poor devil in your power , to tend and nurse for you . 
Never mind the consequences to the poor devil . 
Let him be mangled or eaten up , of course ! You haven't any pity to spare for the victims of your infernal charity . 
Not you ! Your tender heart bleeds only for what is poisonous and deadly . 
I curse the day when you set your benevolent eyes on him . 
Now then ! Now then ! growled Lingard in his moustache . 
Almayer , who had talked himself up to the choking point , drew a long breath and went on Yes ! It has been always so . 
As far back as I can remember . 
Don't you recollect ? What about that half starved dog you brought on board in Bankok in your arms . 
! It went mad next day and bit the serang . 
Now , didn't you ? Two wives and ever so many children the man left . 
And when you went out of your way and risked your ship to rescue some Chinamen from a water logged junk in Formosa Straits , that was also a clever piece of business . 
Wasn't it ? Those damned Chinamen rose on you before forty eight hours . 
They were cut throats , those poor fishermen . 
You knew they were cut throats before you made up your mind to run down on a lee shore in a gale of wind to save them . 
A mad trick ! If they hadn't been scoundrels hopeless scoundrels you would not have put your ship in jeopardy for them , I know . 
You would not have risked the lives of your crew that crew you loved so and your own life . 
Wasn't that foolish ! And , besides , you were not honest . 
Suppose you had been drowned ? I would have been in a pretty mess then , left alone here with that adopted daughter of yours . 
Your duty was to myself first . 
I married that girl because you promised to make my fortune . 
You know you did ! And then three months afterwards you go and do that mad trick for a lot of Chinamen too . 
Chinamen ! You have no morality . 
He seemed disconcerted , contemptuously angry yet somewhat amused and also a little hurt as if at some bitter jest at his own expense . 
Almayer stopped suddenly , and crossing his arms on his breast , bent his body forward and went on speaking . 
I might have been left then in an awkward hole all on account of your absurd disregard for your safety yet I bore no grudge . 
But now when I think of it ! Now we are ruined . 
Ruined ! Ruined ! My poor little Nina . 
Then from behind a cloud of tobacco smoke he said calmly If you had been in trouble as often as I have , my boy , you wouldn't carry on so . 
I have been ruined more than once . 
Well , here I am . 
Yes , here you are , interrupted Almayer . 
Much good it is to me . 
Had you been here a month ago it would have been of some use . 
You might as well be a thousand miles off . 
You scold like a drunken fish wife , said Lingard , serenely . 
He got up and moved slowly to the front rail of the verandah . 
The floor shook and the whole house vibrated under his heavy step . 
For a moment he stood with his back to Almayer , looking out on the river and forest of the east bank , then turned round and gazed mildly down upon him . 
It's very lonely this morning here . 
Almayer lifted up his head . 
Ah ! you notice it don't you ? I should think it is lonely ! Yes , Captain Lingard , your day is over in Sambir . 
Only a month ago this verandah would have been full of people coming to greet you . 
Fellows would be coming up those steps grinning and salaaming to you and to me . 
But our day is over . 
And not by my fault either . 
It's all the doing of that pet rascal of yours . 
Ah ! He is a beauty ! You should have seen him leading that hellish crowd . 
You would have been proud of your old favourite . 
Smart fellow that , muttered Lingard , thoughtfully . 
Almayer jumped up with a shriek . 
And that's all you have to say ! Smart fellow ! O Lord ! Don't make a show of yourself . 
I want to know all about it . 
So he led ? He was the soul of the whole thing . 
He piloted Abdulla's ship in . 
He ordered everything and everybody , said Almayer , who sat down again , with a resigned air . 
When did it happen exactly ? On the sixteenth I heard the first rumours of Abdulla's ship being in the river a thing I refused to believe at first . 
Next day I could not doubt any more . 
There was a great council held openly in Lakamba's place where almost everybody in Sambir attended . 
On the eighteenth the Lord of the Isles was anchored in Sambir reach , abreast of my house . 
Six weeks to day , exactly . 
And all that happened like this ? All of a sudden . 
You never heard anything no warning . 
Never had an idea that something was up ? Come , Almayer ! Heard ! Yes , I used to hear something every day . 
Is there anything else in Sambir ? You might not have believed them , observed Lingard . 
In fact you ought not to have believed everything that was told to you , as if you had been a green hand on his first voyage . 
Almayer moved in his chair uneasily . 
That scoundrel came here one day , he said . 
He had been away from the house for a couple of months living with that woman . 
I only heard about him now and then from Patalolo's people when they came over . 
Well one day , about noon , he appeared in this courtyard , as if he had been jerked up from hell where he belongs . 
Lingard took his cheroot out , and , with his mouth full of white smoke that oozed out through his parted lips , listened , attentive . 
After a short pause Almayer went on , looking at the floor moodily I must say he looked awful . 
Had a bad bout of the ague probably . 
The left shore is very unhealthy . 
Strange that only the breadth of the river . 
He dropped off into deep thoughtfulness as if he had forgotten his grievances in a bitter meditation upon the unsanitary condition of the virgin forests on the left bank . 
Lingard took this opportunity to expel the smoke in a mighty expiration and threw the stump of his cheroot over his shoulder . 
Go on , he said , after a while . 
He came to see you . 
But it wasn't unhealthy enough to finish him , worse luck ! went on Almayer , rousing himself , and , as I said , he turned up here with his brazen impudence . 
He bullied me , he threatened vaguely . 
He wanted to scare me , to blackmail me . 
Me ! And , by heaven he said you would approve . 
You ! Can you conceive such impudence ? I couldn't exactly make out what he was driving at . 
Had I known , I would have approved him . 
Yes ! With a bang on the head . 
But how could I guess that he knew enough to pilot a ship through the entrance you always said was so difficult . 
And , after all , that was the only danger . 
I could deal with anybody here but when Abdulla came . 
That barque of his is armed . 
He carries twelve brass six pounders , and about thirty men . 
Sumatra men , from Deli and Acheen . 
Fight all day and ask for more in the evening . 
I know , I know , said Lingard , impatiently . 
Of course , then , they were cheeky as much as you please after he anchored abreast of our jetty . 
Willems brought her up himself in the best berth . 
I could see him from this verandah standing forward , together with the half caste master . 
And that woman was there too . 
I heard they took her on board off Lakamba's place . 
Willems said he would not go higher without her . 
Frightened them , I believe . 
Everybody in Sambir is talking of it . 
They never heard tell or saw anything like it . 
I have all this from Ali , who goes about in the settlement and brings me the news . 
I had better know what is going on hadn't I ? From what I can make out , they he and that woman are looked upon as something mysterious beyond comprehension . 
They live alone with an old woman in a house outside Lakamba's campong and are greatly respected or feared , I should say rather . 
At least , he is . 
She knows nobody , sees nobody , will speak to nobody but him . 
Never leaves him for a moment . 
It's the talk of the place . 
From what I hear I suspect that Lakamba and Abdulla are tired of him . 
There's also talk of him going away in the Lord of the Isles when she leaves here for the southward as a kind of Abdulla's agent . 
At any rate , he must take the ship out . 
The half caste is not equal to it as yet . 
Lingard , who had listened absorbed till then , began now to walk with measured steps . 
So he came to you first of all , did he ? asked Lingard , without stopping . 
Came to extort money , goods I don't know what else . 
Eh ? Did you try him at all ? Didn't I ! exclaimed Almayer . 
I went to see him myself on the twelfth . 
That was four days before Abdulla entered the river . 
In fact , same day Willems tried to get at me . 
I did feel a little uneasy then . 
Patalolo assured me that there was no human being that did not love me in Sambir . 
Looked as wise as an owl . 
Told me not to listen to the lies of wicked people from down the river . 
Kept on mumbling 'No ! No ! No ! like an old parrot , his head all of a tremble , all beslobbered with betel nut juice . 
I thought there was something queer about him . 
Seemed so restless , and as if in a hurry to get rid of me . 
Asking when I expected you , and so on . 
Then , incidentally , he mentioned that they his master and himself were very much bothered by a ferocious white man my friend who was hanging about that woman Omar's daughter . 
I told him the white man was not my friend , and that they had better kick him out . 
Whereupon he went away salaaming , and protesting his friendship and his master's goodwill . 
Of course I know now the infernal nigger came to spy and to talk over some of my men . 
Anyway , eight were missing at the evening muster . 
Did not dare to leave my house unguarded . 
Do you know what answer I got ? Lingard stopped short in his walk before Almayer , who went on , after an impressive pause , with growing animation . 
All brought it 'The Rajah sends a friend's greeting , and does not understand the message . 
Not a word more could Ali get out of him . 
I could see that Ali was pretty well scared . 
He hung about , arranging my hammock one thing and another . 
Then just before going away he mentioned that the water gate of the Rajah's place was heavily barred , but that he could see only very few men about the courtyard . 
Finally he said , 'There is darkness in our Rajah's house , but no sleep . 
Only darkness and fear and the wailing of women . 
Cheerful , wasn't it ? It made me feel cold down my back somehow . 
After Ali slipped away I stood here by this table , and listened to the shouting and drumming in the settlement . 
Racket enough for twenty weddings . 
It was a little past midnight then . 
A big bluebottle fly flew in recklessly into the cool verandah , and darted with loud buzzing between the two men . 
Lingard struck at it with his hat . 
The fly swerved , and Almayer dodged his head out of the way . 
Then Lingard aimed another ineffectual blow Almayer jumped up and waved his arms about . 
Look at that ! muttered Lingard . 
Nuisance , said Almayer in the same tone . 
Riverside is overrun with them . 
This house is badly placed . 
I don't think anybody went to bed . 
I walked down to the point , and could see them . 
They had a big bonfire in the palm grove , and the talk went on there till the morning . 
If it hadn't been for her I am sure I would have gone mad I felt so utterly alone and helpless . 
Remember , I hadn't heard from you for four months . 
Didn't know whether you were alive or dead . 
Patalolo would have nothing to do with me . 
My own men were deserting me like rats do a sinking hulk . 
That was a black night for me , Captain Lingard . 
A black night as I sat here not knowing what would happen next . 
They were so excited and rowdy that I really feared they would come and burn the house over my head . 
I went and brought my revolver . 
Laid it loaded on the table . 
There were such awful yells now and then . 
Luckily the child slept through it , and seeing her so pretty and peaceful steadied me somehow . 
Couldn't believe there was any violence in this world , looking at her lying so quiet and so unconscious of what went on . 
But it was very hard . 
Everything was at an end . 
You must understand that on that night there was no government in Sambir . 
Nothing to restrain those fellows . 
I was abandoned by my own people , and all that lot could vent their spite on me if they wanted . 
How many times haven't I saved this settlement from starvation ? Absolute starvation . 
Only three months ago I distributed again a lot of rice on credit . 
There was nothing to eat in this infernal place . 
They came begging on their knees . 
There isn't a man in Sambir , big or little , who is not in debt to Lingard Co . 
You ought to be satisfied . 
You always said that was the right policy for us . 
Well , I carried it out . 
Ah ! Captain Lingard , a policy like that should be backed by loaded rifles . 
You had them ! exclaimed Lingard in the midst of his promenade , that went on more rapid as Almayer talked the headlong tramp of a man hurrying on to do something violent . 
The verandah was full of dust , oppressive and choking , which rose under the old seaman's feet , and made Almayer cough again and again . 
Yes , I had ! Twenty . 
And not a finger to pull a trigger . 
It's easy to talk , he spluttered , his face very red . 
Lingard dropped into a chair , and leaned back with one hand stretched out at length upon the table , the other thrown over the back of his seat . 
The dust settled , and the sun surging above the forest flooded the verandah with a clear light . 
Almayer got up and busied himself in lowering the split rattan screens that hung between the columns of the verandah . 
Phew ! said Lingard , it will be a hot day . 
That's right , my boy . 
We don't want to be roasted alive here . 
Almayer came back , sat down , and spoke very calmly In the morning I went across to see Patalolo . 
I took the child with me , of course . 
I found the water gate barred , and had to walk round through the bushes . 
Patalolo received me lying on the floor , in the dark , all the shutters closed . 
I could get nothing out of him but lamentations and groans . 
He said you must be dead . 
That Lakamba was coming now with Abdulla's guns to kill everybody . 
Said he did not mind being killed , as he was an old man , but that the wish of his heart was to make a pilgrimage . 
He was tired of men's ingratitude he had no heirs he wanted to go to Mecca and die there . 
He would ask Abdulla to let him go . 
Then he abused Lakamba between sobs and you , a little . 
No matter which way he turned he shrieked the white men would be the death of him , while he wanted only to be a pilgrim and be at peace . 
Another of your particular pets ! Well ! You have a lucky hand , I must say ! Lingard struck a sudden blow on the table with his clenched hand . 
There was a sharp crack of splitting wood . 
Almayer started up violently , then fell back in his chair and looked at the table . 
There ! he said , moodily , you don't know your own strength . 
This table is completely ruined . 
The only table I had been able to save from my wife . 
By and by I will have to eat squatting on the floor like a native . 
No use crying over that . 
Don't you be uneasy , Kaspar . 
We will have everything ship shape here in a very short time . 
What ? You don't mean to expel Abdulla out of here by force ! I tell you , you can't . 
Not I ! exclaimed Lingard . 
That's all over , I am afraid . 
They will suffer for it . 
Damn it ! I feel so sorry for them if I had the Flash here I would try force . 
Eh ! Why not ? However , the poor Flash is gone , and there is an end of it . 
Hey , Almayer ? You made a voyage or two with me . 
Wasn't she a sweet craft ? Could make her do anything but talk . 
She was better than a wife to me . 
And to think that it should come to this . 
He nodded sadly , with his eyes on the ground . 
Almayer looked at him with growing indignation . 
Upon my word , you are heartless , he burst out perfectly heartless and selfish . 
It does not seem to strike you in all that that in losing your ship by your recklessness , I am sure you ruin me us , and my little Nina . 
What's going to become of me and of her ? That's what I want to know . 
You brought me here , made me your partner , and now , when everything is gone to the devil through your fault , mind you you talk about your ship . 
ship ! You can get another . 
That's gone now , thanks to Willems . 
Your dear Willems ! Never you mind about Willems . 
I will look after him , said Lingard , severely . 
And as to the trade . 
I will make your fortune yet , my boy . 
The last lot I ever will have , no doubt , he added , bitterly . 
So , after all , there was no robbery . 
Well , then , you must . 
Hallo ! What's the matter ! . 
Robbery ! No ! screamed Almayer , throwing up his hands . 
He fell back in the chair and his face became purple . 
A little white foam appeared on his lips and trickled down his chin , while he lay back , showing the whites of his upturned eyes . 
When he came to himself he saw Lingard standing over him , with an empty water chatty in his hand . 
You had a fit of some kind , said the old seaman with much concern . 
What is it ? You did give me a fright . 
Almayer , his hair all wet and stuck to his head , as if he had been diving , sat up and gasped . 
Outrage ! A fiendish outrage . 
Lingard put the chatty on the table and looked at him in attentive silence . 
Almayer passed his hand over his forehead and went on in an unsteady tone When I remember that , I lose all control , he said . 
I told you he anchored Abdulla's ship abreast our jetty , but over to the other shore , near the Rajah's place . 
The ship was surrounded with boats . 
From here it looked as if she had been landed on a raft . 
Every dugout in Sambir was there . 
Through my glass I could distinguish the faces of people on the poop Abdulla , Willems , Lakamba everybody . 
That old cringing scoundrel Sahamin was there . 
I could see quite plain . 
There seemed to be much talk and discussion . 
Finally I saw a ship's boat lowered . 
Some Arab got into her , and the boat went towards Patalolo's landing place . 
It seems they had been refused admittance so they say . 
I think myself that the water gate was not unbarred quick enough to please the exalted messenger . 
At any rate I saw the boat come back almost directly . 
I was looking on , rather interested , when I saw Willems and some more go forward very busy about something there . 
That woman was also amongst them . 
Almayer choked , and seemed on the point of having a relapse , but by a violent effort regained a comparative composure . 
Whereupon , I suppose , they thought they had done enough for a while , and probably felt hungry , for a feast began aft . 
Abdulla sat amongst them like an idol , cross legged , his hands on his lap . 
He's too great altogether to eat when others do , but he presided , you see . 
Willems kept on dodging about forward , aloof from the crowd , and looking at my house through the ship's long glass . 
I could not resist it . 
I shook my fist at him . 
Just so , said Lingard , gravely . 
That was the thing to do , of course . 
If you can't fight a man the best thing is to exasperate him . 
Almayer waved his hand in a superior manner , and continued , unmoved You may say what you like . 
You can't realize my feelings . 
He saw me , and , with his eye still at the small end of the glass , lifted his arm as if answering a hail . 
I thought my turn to be shot at would come next after Patalolo , so I ran up the Union Jack to the flagstaff in the yard . 
I had no other protection . 
There were only three men besides Ali that stuck to me three cripples , for that matter , too sick to get away . 
I would have fought singlehanded , I think , I was that angry , but there was the child . 
What to do with her ? Couldn't send her up the river with the mother . 
You know I can't trust my wife . 
I decided to keep very quiet , but to let nobody land on our shore . 
Private property , that under a deed from Patalolo . 
I was within my right wasn't I ? The morning was very quiet . 
After they had a feed on board the barque with Abdulla most of them went home only the big people remained . 
Towards three o'clock Sahamin crossed alone in a small canoe . 
I went down on our wharf with my gun to speak to him , but didn't let him land . 
The old hypocrite said Abdulla sent greetings and wished to talk with me on business would I come on board ? I said no I would not . 
Told him that Abdulla may write and I would answer , but no interview , neither on board his ship nor on shore . 
I also said that if anybody attempted to land within my fences I would shoot no matter whom . 
On that he lifted his hands to heaven , scandalized , and then paddled away pretty smartly to report , I suppose . 
An hour or so afterwards I saw Willems land a boat party at the Rajah's . 
Not a shot was fired , and there was hardly any shouting . 
They tumbled those brass guns you presented to Patalolo last year down the bank into the river . 
It's deep there close to . 
The channel runs that way , you know . 
About five , Willems went back on board , and I saw him join Abdulla by the wheel aft . 
He talked a lot , swinging his arms about seemed to explain things pointed at my house , then down the reach . 
That evening , after dark I was informed Abdulla landed for the first time in Sambir . 
He was entertained in Sahamin's house . 
I sent Ali to the settlement for news . 
He returned about nine , and reported that Patalolo was sitting on Abdulla's left hand before Sahamin's fire . 
There was a great council . 
Ali seemed to think that Patalolo was a prisoner , but he was wrong there . 
They did the trick very neatly . 
Before midnight everything was arranged as I can make out . 
Patalolo went back to his demolished stockade , escorted by a dozen boats with torches . 
It appears he begged Abdulla to let him have a passage in the Lord of the Isles to Penang . 
From there he would go to Mecca . 
The firing business was alluded to as a mistake . 
No doubt it was in a sense . 
So he is going as soon as the ship is ready for sea . 
He went on board next day with three women and half a dozen fellows as old as himself . 
By Abdulla's orders he was received with a salute of seven guns , and he has been living on board ever since five weeks . 
I doubt whether he will leave the river alive . 
At any rate he won't live to reach Penang . 
Lakamba took over all his goods , and gave him a draft on Abdulla's house payable in Penang . 
He is bound to die before he gets there . 
Don't you see ? He sat silent for a while in dejected meditation , then went on Of course there were several rows during the night . 
Various fellows took the opportunity of the unsettled state of affairs to pay off old scores and settle old grudges . 
I passed the night in that chair there , dozing uneasily . 
Now and then there would be a great tumult and yelling which would make me sit up , revolver in hand . 
However , nobody was killed . 
A few broken heads that's all . 
Early in the morning Willems caused them to make a fresh move which I must say surprised me not a little . 
Shortly after sunrise there was a great gathering at the flag pole . 
Willems was standing leaning against the mast , one arm over that woman's shoulders . 
They had brought an armchair for Patalolo , and Lakamba stood on the right hand of the old man , who made a speech . 
Everybody in Sambir was there women , slaves , children everybody ! Then Patalolo spoke . 
He said that by the mercy of the Most High he was going on a pilgrimage . 
The dearest wish of his heart was to be accomplished . 
Then , turning to Lakamba , he begged him to rule justly during his Patalolo's absence . 
There was a bit of play acting there . 
Lakamba said he was unworthy of the honourable burden , and Patalolo insisted . 
Poor old fool ! It must have been bitter to him . 
They made him actually entreat that scoundrel . 
Fancy a man compelled to beg of a robber to despoil him ! But the old Rajah was so frightened . 
Anyway , he did it , and Lakamba accepted at last . 
Then Willems made a speech to the crowd . 
Said that on his way to the west the Rajah he meant Patalolo would see the Great White Ruler in Batavia and obtain his protection for Sambir . 
Meantime , he went on , I , an Orang Blanda and your friend , hoist the flag under the shadow of which there is safety . 
With that he ran up a Dutch flag to the mast head . 
It was made hurriedly , during the night , of cotton stuffs , and , being heavy , hung down the mast , while the crowd stared . 
But , hang it all ! exclaimed Lingard Abdulla is British ! Abdulla wasn't there at all did not go on shore that day . 
Yet Ali , who has his wits about him , noticed that the space where the crowd stood was under the guns of the Lord of the Isles . 
They had put a coir warp ashore , and gave the barque a cant in the current , so as to bring the broadside to bear on the flagstaff . 
Clever ! Eh ? But nobody dreamt of resistance . 
When they recovered from the surprise there was a little quiet jeering and Bahassoen abused Lakamba violently till one of Lakamba's men hit him on the head with a staff . 
Frightful crack , I am told . 
Then they left off jeering . 
Suddenly there was a great noise behind Lakamba's chair . 
It was that woman , who went for Willems . 
Ali says she was like a wild beast , but he twisted her wrist and made her grovel in the dust . 
Nobody knows exactly what it was about . 
Some say it was about that flag . 
He carried her off , flung her into a canoe , and went on board Abdulla's ship . 
After that Sahamin was the first to salaam to the flag . 
Before noon everything was quiet in the settlement , and Ali came back and told me all this . 
Almayer drew a long breath . 
Lingard stretched out his legs . 
Go on ! he said . 
Almayer seemed to struggle with himself . 
At last he spluttered out The hardest is to tell yet . 
The most unheard of thing ! An outrage ! A fiendish outrage ! CHAPTER THREE Well ! Let's know all about it . 
began Lingard , after waiting for some time in silence . 
Can't imagine ! I should think you couldn't , interrupted Almayer . 
When Ali came back I felt a little easier in my mind . 
There was then some semblance of order in Sambir . 
I had the Jack up since the morning and began to feel safer . 
Some of my men turned up in the afternoon . 
I did not ask any questions set them to work as if nothing had happened . 
Towards the evening it might have been five or half past I was on our jetty with the child when I heard shouts at the far off end of the settlement . 
At first I didn't take much notice . 
By and by Ali came to me and says , 'Master , give me the child , there is much trouble in the settlement . 
So I gave him Nina and went in , took my revolver , and passed through the house into the back courtyard . 
Could not see them on account of the fringe of bushes along the ditch , but I knew that crowd was angry and after somebody . 
As I stood wondering , that Jim Eng you know the Chinaman who settled here a couple of years ago ? He was my passenger I brought him here , exclaimed Lingard . 
A first class Chinaman that . 
Did you ? I had forgotten . 
Well , that Jim Eng , he burst through the bush and fell into my arms , so to speak . 
He told me , panting , that they were after him because he wouldn't take off his hat to the flag . 
He was not so much scared , but he was very angry and indignant . 
Of course he had to run for it there were some fifty men after him Lakamba's friends but he was full of fight . 
Said he was an Englishman , and would not take off his hat to any flag but English . 
I tried to soothe him while the crowd was shouting on the other side of the ditch . 
I told him he must take one of my canoes and cross the river . 
Stop on the other side for a couple of days . 
He was English , and he would fight the whole lot . 
Says he 'They are only black fellows . 
We white men , meaning me and himself , 'can fight everybody in Sambir . 
He was mad with passion . 
The crowd quieted a little , and I thought I could shelter Jim Eng without much risk , when all of a sudden I heard Willems' voice . 
He shouted to me in English 'Let four men enter your compound to get that Chinaman ! I said nothing . 
Told Jim Eng to keep quiet too . 
Then after a while Willems shouts again 'Don't resist , Almayer . 
I give you good advice . 
I am keeping this crowd back . 
Don't resist them ! That beggar's voice enraged me I could not help it . 
I was trampled under foot , Jim Eng got a dozen gashes about his body , and we were carried halfway up the yard in the first rush . 
My eyes and mouth were full of dust I was on my back with three or four fellows sitting on me . 
I could hear Jim Eng trying to shout not very far from me . 
Now and then they would throttle him and he would gurgle . 
I could hardly breathe myself with two heavy fellows on my chest . 
Willems came up running and ordered them to raise me up , but to keep good hold . 
They led me into the verandah . 
I looked round , but did not see either Ali or the child . 
Oh , my God ! Almayer's face was distorted with a passing spasm of rage . 
Lingard moved in his chair slightly . 
Almayer went on after a short pause They held me , shouting threats in my face . 
Willems took down my hammock and threw it to them . 
He pulled out the drawer of this table , and found there a palm and needle and some sail twine . 
We were making awnings for your brig , as you had asked me last voyage before you left . 
He knew , of course , where to look for what he wanted . 
While he worked he laughed wickedly . 
I called him all the names I could think of . 
He told them to put their dirty paws over my mouth and nose . 
Whenever I moved they punched me in the ribs . 
He went on taking fresh needlefuls as he wanted them , and working steadily . 
Sewed me up to my throat . 
Then he rose , saying , 'That will do let go . 
That woman had been standing by they must have been reconciled . 
I lay on the floor like a bale of goods while he stared at me , and the woman shrieked with delight . 
Like a bale of goods ! There was a grin on every face , and the verandah was full of them . 
I wished myself dead 'pon my word , Captain Lingard , I did ! I do now whenever I think of it ! Lingard's face expressed sympathetic indignation . 
Almayer dropped his head upon his arms on the table , and spoke in that position in an indistinct and muffled voice , without looking up . 
Finally , by his directions , they flung me into the big rocking chair . 
I was sewed in so tight that I was stiff like a piece of wood . 
He was giving orders in a very loud voice , and that man Babalatchi saw that they were executed . 
Meantime I lay there in the chair like a log , and that woman capered before me and made faces snapped her fingers before my nose . 
Women are bad ! ain't they ? I never saw her before , as far as I know . 
Never done anything to her . 
Yet she was perfectly fiendish . 
He looked on , indulgent . 
The perspiration ran down my face , got into my eyes my arms were sewn in . 
I was blinded half the time at times I could see better . 
She drags him before my chair . 
'I am like white women , she says , her arms round his neck . 
You should have seen the faces of the fellows in the verandah ! They were scandalized and ashamed of themselves to see her behaviour . 
Suddenly she asks him , alluding to me 'When are you going to kill him ? Imagine how I felt . 
I must have swooned I don't remember exactly . 
I fancy there was a row he was angry . 
When I got my wits again he was sitting close to me , and she was gone . 
I understood he sent her to my wife , who was hiding in the back room and never came out during this affair . 
Willems says to me I fancy I can hear his voice , hoarse and dull he says to me 'Not a hair of your head shall be touched . 
Then he goes on 'Please remark that the flag you have hoisted which , by the by , is not yours has been respected . 
Tell Captain Lingard so when you do see him . 
But , he says , 'you first fired at the crowd . 
'You are a liar , you blackguard ! I shouted . 
He winced , I am sure . 
It hurt him to see I was not frightened . 
'Anyways , he says , 'a shot had been fired out of your compound and a man was hit . 
Still , all your property shall be respected on account of the Union Jack . 
Moreover , I have no quarrel with Captain Lingard , who is the senior partner in this business . 
As to you , he continued , 'you will not forget this day not if you live to be a hundred years old or I don't know your nature . 
You will keep the bitter taste of this humiliation to the last day of your life , and so your kindness to me shall be repaid . 
I shall remove all the powder you have . 
This coast is under the protection of the Netherlands , and you have no right to have any powder . 
There are the Governor's Orders in Council to that effect , and you know it . 
He ordered Babalatchi to have the lock of the office room forced , and went in rummaged amongst my drawers could not find the key . 
Then that woman Aissa asked my wife , and she gave them the key . 
After awhile they tumbled every barrel into the river . 
Eighty three hundredweight ! He superintended himself , and saw every barrel roll into the water . 
Babalatchi was angry and tried to expostulate , but he gave him a good shaking . 
I must say he was perfectly fearless with those fellows . 
Then he came back to the verandah , sat down by me again , and says 'We found your man Ali with your little daughter hiding in the bushes up the river . 
They are perfectly safe , of course . 
Let me congratulate you , Almayer , upon the cleverness of your child . 
She recognized me at once , and cried pig as naturally as you would yourself . 
You should have seen how frightened your man Ali was . 
Clapped his hands over her mouth . 
I think you spoil her , Almayer . 
But I am not angry . 
Really , you look so ridiculous in this chair that I can't feel angry . 
I made a frantic effort to burst out of my hammock to get at that scoundrel's throat , but I only fell off and upset the chair over myself . 
He laughed and said only 'I leave you half of your revolver cartridges and take half myself they will fit mine . 
We are both white men , and should back each other up . 
In less than five minutes there was nobody inside our fences . 
After awhile Ali came to look for me and cut me free . 
I haven't seen Willems since nor anybody else for that matter . 
I have been left alone . 
I offered sixty dollars to the man who had been wounded , which were accepted . 
They released Jim Eng the next day , when the flag had been hauled down . 
He sent six cases of opium to me for safe keeping but has not left his house . 
I think he is safe enough now . 
Towards the end of his narrative Almayer lifted his head off the table , and now sat back in his chair and stared at the bamboo rafters of the roof above him . 
Lingard lolled in his seat with his legs stretched out . 
Lingard got up slowly , walked to the front rail , and holding one of the screens aside , looked out in silence . 
Over the water and the empty courtyard came a distinct voice from a small schooner anchored abreast of the Lingard jetty . 
Serang ! Take a pull at the main peak halyards . 
This gaff is down on the boom . 
'' There was a shrill pipe dying in long drawn cadence , the song of the men swinging on the rope . 
Lingard sat down again , facing Almayer , his elbow on the table , in a thoughtful attitude . 
Nice little schooner , muttered Almayer , wearily . 
Did you buy her ? No , answered Lingard . 
After I lost the Flash we got to Palembang in our boats . 
I chartered her there , for six months . 
From young Ford , you know . 
He wanted a spell ashore , so I took charge myself . 
Of course all Ford's people on board . 
I had to go to Singapore about the insurance then I went to Macassar , of course . 
It was like a curse on me . 
I had lots of trouble with old Hudig . 
Ah ! Hudig ! Why with Hudig ? asked Almayer , in a perfunctory manner . 
a woman , mumbled Lingard . 
Almayer looked at him with languid surprise . 
The old seaman had twisted his white beard into a point , and now was busy giving his moustaches a fierce curl . 
Extraordinary ! So like you ! What can you have to do with Hudig's women ? The old sinner ! said Almayer , negligently . 
What are you talking about ! Wife of a friend of . 
I mean of a man I know . 
Still , I don't see . 
Of a man you know too . 
I knew so many men before you made me bury myself in this hole ! growled Almayer , unamiably . 
If she had anything to do with Hudig that wife then she can't be up to much . 
Don't talk foolish ! It's Willems' wife . 
Almayer grasped the sides of his seat , his eyes and mouth opened wide . 
What ? Why ! he exclaimed , bewildered . 
Willems' wife , repeated Lingard distinctly . 
You ain't deaf , are you ? The wife of Willems . 
As to why ! There was a promise . 
And I did not know what had happened here . 
You've been giving her money , I bet , cried Almayer . 
Well , no ! said Lingard , deliberately . 
Although I suppose I shall have to . 
The fact is , went on Lingard , speaking slowly and steadily , the fact is that I have . 
I have brought her here . 
In heaven's name ! why ? shouted Almayer , jumping up . 
The chair tilted and fell slowly over . 
He raised his clasped hands above his head and brought them down jerkily , separating his fingers with an effort , as if tearing them apart . 
Lingard nodded , quickly , several times . 
Hey ? he said , with a puzzled look upwards . 
Upon my word , said Almayer , tearfully . 
I can't understand you at all . 
What will you do next ! cWillems' wife ! Wife and child . 
Small boy , you know . 
They are on board the schooner . 
Lingard went on Fact is , the fellow got into trouble with Hudig . 
I promised to arrange matters . 
Hudig was angry with her for wishing to join her husband . 
You know she is his daughter . 
Well , I said I would see her through it all right help Willems to a fresh start and so on . 
I spoke to Craig in Palembang . 
He is getting on in years , and wanted a manager or partner . 
I promised to guarantee Willems' good behaviour . 
Craig is an old crony of mine . 
Been shipmates in the forties . 
He's waiting for him now . 
A pretty mess ! What do you think ? Almayer shrugged his shoulders . 
That woman broke with Hudig on my assurance that all would be well , went on Lingard , with growing dismay . 
Proper thing , of course . 
Jolly old go ! Oh ! damn ! Almayer laughed spitefully . 
How delighted he will be , he said , softly . 
You will make two people happy . 
Two at least ! He laughed again , while Lingard looked at his shaking shoulders in consternation . 
I am jammed on a lee shore this time , if ever I was , muttered Lingard . 
Send her back quick , suggested Almayer , stifling another laugh . 
What are you sniggering at ? growled Lingard , angrily . 
I'll work it out all clear yet . 
Meantime you must receive her into this house . 
My house ! cried Almayer , turning round . 
It's mine too a little isn't it ? said Lingard . 
Don't argue , he shouted , as Almayer opened his mouth . 
Obey orders and hold your tongue ! Oh ! If you take it in that tone ! mumbled Almayer , sulkily , with a gesture of assent . 
You are so aggravating too , my boy , said the old seaman , with unexpected placidity . 
You must give me time to turn round . 
I can't keep her on board all the time . 
I must tell her something . 
Say , for instance , that he is gone up the river . 
D'ye hear ? You must put her on that tack and dodge her along easy , while I take the kinks out of the situation . 
By God ! he exclaimed , mournfully , after a short pause , life is foul ! Foul like a lee forebrace on a dirty night . 
One must see it clear for running before going below for good . 
Now you attend to what I said , he added , sharply , if you don't want to quarrel with me , my boy . 
I don't want to quarrel with you , murmured Almayer with unwilling deference . 
Only I wish I could understand you . 
I know you are my best friend , Captain Lingard only , upon my word , I can't make you out sometimes ! I wish I could . 
Lingard burst into a loud laugh which ended shortly in a deep sigh . 
I am done up , said Lingard , gently . 
All night on deck getting that schooner up the river . 
Seems to me I could go to sleep on a clothes line . 
I should like to eat something though . 
Just see about that , Kaspar . 
Take me up at once . 
I want to be carried into the verandah . 
I shall be very angry . 
A man's voice answered , subdued , in humble remonstrance . 
The faces of Almayer and Lingard brightened at once . 
The old seaman called out Bring the child . 
Lekas ! You will see how she has grown , exclaimed Almayer , in a jubilant tone . 
Through the curtained doorway Ali appeared with little Nina Almayer in his arms . 
The child had one arm round his neck , and with the other she hugged a ripe pumelo nearly as big as her own head . 
Lingard got up to meet Ali , and as soon as she caught sight of the old seaman she dropped the fruit and put out both her hands with a cry of delight . 
He took her from the Malay , and she laid hold of his moustaches with an affectionate goodwill that brought unaccustomed tears into his little red eyes . 
Not so hard , little one , not so hard , he murmured , pressing with an enormous hand , that covered it entirely , the child's head to his face . 
Pick up my pumelo , O Rajah of the sea ! she said , speaking in a high pitched , clear voice with great volubility . 
There , under the table . 
I want it quick ! Quick ! You have been away fighting with many men . 
You are a mighty fighter . 
On the great sea far away , away , away . 
She waved her hand , staring with dreamy vacancy , while Lingard looked at her , and squatting down groped under the table after the pumelo . 
Where does she get those notions ? said Lingard , getting up cautiously , to Almayer , who had been giving orders to Ali . 
She is always with the men . 
Many a time I've found her with her fingers in their rice dish , of an evening . 
She does not care for her mother though I am glad to say . 
How pretty she is and so sharp . 
My very image ! Lingard had put the child on the table , and both men stood looking at her with radiant faces . 
A perfect little woman , whispered Lingard . 
Yes , my dear boy , we shall make her somebody . 
You'll see ! Very little chance of that now , remarked Almayer , sadly . 
You do not know ! exclaimed Lingard , taking up the child again , and beginning to walk up and down the verandah . 
And he began to explain to the interested Almayer his plans for the future . 
He would interview Abdulla and Lakamba . 
There must be some understanding with those fellows now they had the upper hand . 
Yes that would be easily settled . 
He was a man to be reckoned with yet . 
Nobody knew that better than Almayer . 
Then he must patiently try and keep some little trade together . 
It would be all right . 
But the great thing and here Lingard spoke lower , bringing himself to a sudden standstill before the entranced Almayer the great thing would be the gold hunt up the river . 
He Lingard would devote himself to it . 
He had been in the interior before . 
There were immense deposits of alluvial gold there . 
Dangerous work ? Of course ! But what a reward ! He would explore and find . 
Not a shadow of doubt . 
Hang the danger ! They would first get as much as they could for themselves . 
Then after a time form a Company . 
In Batavia or in England . 
Splendid ! Why , of course . 
And that baby would be the richest woman in the world . 
He Lingard would not , perhaps , see it although he felt good for many years yet but Almayer would . 
He stopped now and said tenderly What is it , little woman ? I am not a little woman . 
I am a white child . 
A white child and the white men are my brothers . 
And Ali says so too . 
Ali knows as much as father . 
Almayer almost danced with paternal delight . 
I taught her , he repeated , laughing with tears in his eyes . 
Isn't she sharp ? I am the slave of the white child , said Lingard , with playful solemnity . 
What is the order ? I want a house , she warbled , with great eagerness . 
I want a house , and another house on the roof , and another on the roof high . 
High ! Like the places where they dwell my brothers in the land where the sun sleeps . 
To the westward , explained Almayer , under his breath . 
She wants you to build a house of cards . 
You did , last time you were here . 
It bored Almayer , but the old seaman delighted in it , considering it a remarkable product of Chinese genius a race for which he had an unaccountable liking and admiration . 
Now we will get on , my little pearl , he said , putting together with extreme precaution two cards that looked absurdly flimsy between his big fingers . 
I know what I am talking about . 
Been in California in forty nine . 
Not that I made much . 
then in Victoria in the early days . 
I know all about it . 
Moreover a blind man could . 
Be quiet , little sister , or you will knock this affair down . 
My hand pretty steady yet ! Hey , Kaspar ? . 
Now , delight of my heart , we shall put a third house on the top of these two . 
As I was saying , you got only to stoop and gather handfuls of gold . 
Three houses on top of one another . 
Grand ! He leaned back in his chair , one hand on the child's head , which he smoothed mechanically , and gesticulated with the other , speaking to Almayer . 
Once on the spot , there would be only the trouble to pick up the stuff . 
Then we shall all go to Europe . 
The child must be educated . 
Rich is no name for it . 
Down in Devonshire where I belong , there was a fellow who built a house near Teignmouth which had as many windows as a three decker has ports . 
Made all his money somewhere out here in the good old days . 
People around said he had been a pirate . 
We boys I was a boy in a Brixham trawler then certainly believed that . 
He went about in a bath chair in his grounds . 
Higher , Higher ! called out Nina , pulling the old seaman's beard . 
You do worry me don't you ? said Lingard , gently , giving her a tender kiss . 
What ? One more house on top of all these ? Well ! I will try . 
The child watched him breathlessly . 
When the difficult feat was accomplished she clapped her hands , looked on steadily , and after a while gave a great sigh of content . 
Oh ! Look out ! shouted Almayer . 
The structure collapsed suddenly before the child's light breath . 
Lingard looked discomposed for a moment . 
Almayer laughed , but the little girl began to cry . 
Take her , said the old seaman , abruptly . 
Then , after Almayer went away with the crying child , he remained sitting by the table , looking gloomily at the heap of cards . 
Damn this Willems , he muttered to himself . 
But I will do it yet ! He got up , and with an angry push of his hand swept the cards off the table . 
Then he fell back in his chair . 
Tired as a dog , he sighed out , closing his eyes . 
CHAPTER FOUR Consciously or unconsciously , men are proud of their firmness , steadfastness of purpose , directness of aim . 
They go straight towards their desire , to the accomplishment of virtue sometimes of crime in an uplifting persuasion of their firmness . 
The man of purpose does not understand , and goes on , full of contempt . 
He never loses his way . 
He knows where he is going and what he wants . 
Lingard had never hesitated in his life . 
Why should he ? He had been a most successful trader , and a man lucky in his fights , skilful in navigation , undeniably first in seamanship in those seas . 
To Lingard simple himself all things were simple . 
His experience appeared to him immense and conclusive , teaching him the lesson of the simplicity of life . 
In life as in seamanship there were only two ways of doing a thing the right way and the wrong way . 
Common sense and experience taught a man the way that was right . 
He did not consider it his duty to be angry with rascals . 
He was only angry with things he could not understand , but for the weaknesses of humanity he could find a contemptuous tolerance . 
He was meddlesome with perfect modesty if he knew a thing or two there was no merit in it . 
Hard knocks taught me wisdom , my boy , he used to say , and you had better take the advice of a man who has been a fool in his time . 
Captain Tom went sailing from island to island , appearing unexpectedly in various localities , beaming , noisy , anecdotal , commendatory or comminatory , but always welcome . 
His deep seated and immovable conviction that only he he , Lingard knew what was good for them was characteristic of him . 
and , after all , not so very far wrong . 
He would make them happy whether or no , he said , and he meant it . 
His trade brought prosperity to the young state , and the fear of his heavy hand secured its internal peace for many years . 
He looked proudly upon his work . 
As he slowly warped his vessel up stream he would scan with knowing looks the riverside clearings , and pronounce solemn judgment upon the prospects of the season's rice crop . 
He loved the heavy scents of blossoms and black earth , that breath of life and of death which lingered over his brig in the damp air of tepid and peaceful nights . 
He loved the narrow and sombre creeks , strangers to sunshine black , smooth , tortuous like byways of despair . 
He liked even the troops of sorrowful faced monkeys that profaned the quiet spots with capricious gambols and insane gestures of inhuman madness . 
He loved everything there , animated or inanimated the very mud of the riverside the very alligators , enormous and stolid , basking on it with impertinent unconcern . 
Their size was a source of pride to him . 
His river ! The whispers of curious men , the mystery of the thing , were to Lingard a source of never ending delight . 
His river ! By it he was not only rich he was interesting . 
It was the greater part of his happiness , but he only knew it after its loss , so unforeseen , so sudden and so cruel . 
After his conversation with Almayer he went on board the schooner , sent Joanna on shore , and shut himself up in his cabin , feeling very unwell . 
He made the most of his indisposition to Almayer , who came to visit him twice a day . 
It was an excuse for doing nothing just yet . 
Angry with himself , with Willems . 
Angry at what Willems had done and also angry at what he had left undone . 
The scoundrel was not complete . 
The conception was perfect , but the execution , unaccountably , fell short . 
Why ? He ought to have cut Almayer's throat and burnt the place to ashes then cleared out . 
Got out of his way of him , Lingard ! Yet he didn't . 
Was it impudence , contempt or what ? He felt hurt at the implied disrespect of his power , and the incomplete rascality of the proceeding disturbed him exceedingly . 
There was something short , something wanting , something that would have given him a free hand in the work of retribution . 
The obvious , the right thing to do , was to shoot Willems . 
But no ! The fellow actually had sent him a message . 
What for ? The thing could not be explained . 
An unexampled , cold blooded treachery , awful , incomprehensible . 
During his four days of seclusion he had received two messages from the outer world from that world of Sambir which had , so suddenly and so finally , slipped from his grasp . 
The first he could not understand . 
It said Come and see me . 
Abdulla's letter he read carefully and rammed it into his pocket , also with anger , but with anger that ended in a half resigned , half amused smile . 
He would never give in as long as there was a chance . 
It's generally the safest way to stick to the ship as long as she will swim , was one of his favourite sayings The safest and the right way . 
To abandon a craft because it leaks is easy but poor work . 
Poor work ! Yet he was intelligent enough to know when he was beaten , and to accept the situation like a man , without repining . 
When Almayer came on board that afternoon he handed him the letter without comment . 
looked down for some time at the play of the eddies round the schooner's rudder . 
At last he said without looking up That's a decent enough letter . 
Abdulla gives him up to you . 
I told you they were getting sick of him . 
What are you going to do ? Lingard cleared his throat , shuffled his feet , opened his mouth with great determination , but said nothing for a while . 
At last he murmured I'll be hanged if I know just yet . 
I wish you would do something soon . 
What's the hurry ? interrupted Lingard . 
As it stands he is at my mercy , as far as I can see . 
Yes , said Almayer , reflectively and very little mercy he deserves too . 
Abdulla's meaning as I can make it out amongst all those compliments is 'Get rid for me of that white man and we shall live in peace and share the trade . 
You believe that ? asked Lingard , contemptuously . 
Not altogether , answered Almayer . 
No doubt we will share the trade for a time till he can grab the lot . 
Well , what are you going to do ? He looked up as he spoke and was surprised to see Lingard's discomposed face . 
Pain anywhere ? he asked , with real solicitude . 
I have been queer you know these last few days , but no pain . 
He struck his broad chest several times , cleared his throat with a powerful Hem ! and repeated No. No pain . 
Good for a few years yet . 
But I am bothered with all this , I can tell you ! You must take care of yourself , said Almayer . 
Then after a pause he added You will see Abdulla . 
Won't you ? I don't know . 
There's plenty of time , said Lingard , impatiently . 
I wish you would do something , urged Almayer , moodily . 
You know , that woman is a perfect nuisance to me . 
She and her brat ! Yelps all day . 
And the children don't get on together . 
Yesterday the little devil wanted to fight with my Nina . 
Scratched her face , too . 
A perfect savage ! Like his honourable papa . 
She worries about her husband , and whimpers from morning to night . 
When she isn't weeping she is furious with me . 
Yesterday she tormented me to tell her when he would be back and cried because he was engaged in such dangerous work . 
I said something about it being all right no necessity to make a fool of herself , when she turned upon me like a wild cat . 
Called me a brute , selfish , heartless raved about her beloved Peter risking his life for my benefit , while I did not care . 
Said I took advantage of his generous good nature to get him to do dangerous work my work . 
That he was worth twenty of the likes of me . 
That she would tell you open your eyes as to the kind of man I was , and so on . 
That's what I've got to put up with for your sake . 
You really might consider me a little . 
I haven't robbed anybody , went on Almayer , with an attempt at bitter irony or sold my best friend , but still you ought to have some pity on me . 
It's like living in a hot fever . 
She is out of her wits . 
You make my house a refuge for scoundrels and lunatics . 
'Pon my word it isn't ! When she is in her tantrums she is ridiculously ugly and screeches so it sets my teeth on edge . 
Thank God ! my wife got a fit of the sulks and cleared out of the house . 
Lives in a riverside hut since that affair you know . 
But this Willems' wife by herself is almost more than I can bear . 
And I ask myself why should I ? You are exacting and no mistake . 
This morning I thought she was going to claw me . 
Only think ! She wanted to go prancing about the settlement . 
She might have heard something there , so I told her she mustn't . 
It wasn't safe outside our fences , I said . 
Thereupon she rushes at me with her ten nails up to my eyes . 
'You miserable man , she yells , 'even this place is not safe , and you've sent him up this awful river where he may lose his head . 
If he dies before forgiving me , Heaven will punish you for your crime . 
My crime ! I ask myself sometimes whether I am dreaming ! It will make me ill , all this . 
I've lost my appetite already . 
He flung his hat on deck and laid hold of his hair despairingly . 
Lingard looked at him with concern . 
What did she mean by it ? he muttered , thoughtfully . 
Mean ! She is crazy , I tell you and I will be , very soon , if this lasts ! Just a little patience , Kaspar , pleaded Lingard . 
A day or so more . 
Relieved or tired by his violent outburst , Almayer calmed down , picked up his hat and , leaning against the bulwark , commenced to fan himself with it . 
Days do pass , he said , resignedly but that kind of thing makes a man old before his time . 
I believe him perfectly , as to Willems . 
As to being your friend it's a lie of course , but we need not bother about that just yet . 
You just say yes to Abdulla , and then whatever happens to Willems will be nobody's business . 
He interrupted himself and remained silent for a while , glaring about with set teeth and dilated nostrils . 
You leave it to me . 
I'll see to it that something happens to him , he said at last , with calm ferocity . 
The fellow isn't worth a shot . 
Not the trouble of it , he whispered , as if to himself . 
That's what you think , he cried . 
You haven't been sewn up in your hammock to be made a laughing stock of before a parcel of savages . 
Why ! I daren't look anybody here in the face while that scoundrel is alive . 
I don't think you will , growled Lingard . 
Do you think I am afraid of him ? Bless you ! no ! said Lingard with alacrity . 
I don't doubt your courage . 
It's your head , my boy , your head that I . 
That's it , said the aggrieved Almayer . 
Why don't you call me a fool at once ? Because I don't want to , burst out Lingard , with nervous irritability . 
If I wanted to call you a fool , I would do so without asking your leave . 
He began to walk athwart the narrow quarter deck , kicking ropes' ends out of his way and growling to himself Delicate gentleman . 
I've done man's work before you could toddle . 
Well ! well ! said Almayer , with affected resignation . 
There's no talking to you these last few days . 
Of course you will do what you like . 
You never take advice I know that but let me tell you that it wouldn't be honest to let that fellow get away from here . 
If you do nothing , that scoundrel will leave in Abdulla's ship for sure . 
Abdulla will make use of him to hurt you and others elsewhere . 
Willems knows too much about your affairs . 
He will cause you lots of trouble . 
To you and to others perhaps . 
Think of that , Captain Lingard . 
That's all I've got to say . 
Now I must go back on shore . 
We will begin loading this schooner to morrow morning , first thing . 
All the bundles are ready . 
If you should want me for anything , hoist some kind of flag on the mainmast . 
At night two shots will fetch me . 
Almayer , after waiting for a little while , moved reluctantly towards the gangway , lingered there , then sighed and got over the side , going down step by step . 
His head disappeared slowly below the rail . 
The boat drifted back slowly abreast of Lingard , nearly alongside . 
Look here , said Lingard , looking down I want a good canoe with four men to day . 
Do you want it now ? asked Almayer . 
No ! Catch this rope . 
Oh , you clumsy devil ! . 
No , Kaspar , went on Lingard , after the bow man had got hold of the end of the brace he had thrown down into the canoe No , Kaspar . 
The sun is too much for me . 
And it would be better to keep my affairs quiet , too . 
Send the canoe four good paddlers , mind , and your canvas chair for me to sit in . 
D'ye hear ? All right , father , said Almayer , cheerfully I will send Ali for a steersman , and the best men I've got . 
Anything else ? No , my lad . 
Only don't let them be late . 
I suppose it's no use asking you where you are going , said Almayer , tentatively . 
Because if it is to see Abdulla , I . 
I am not going to see Abdulla . 
Now be off with you . 
He read it over carefully , crumpled it up slowly , smiling the while and closing his fingers firmly over the crackling paper as though he had hold there of Abdulla's throat . 
PART IV CHAPTER ONE The night was very dark . 
Perchance such thoughts as these caused Babalatchi to send another mournful sigh into the trailing mists of the unconcerned Pantai . 
Yet he had heard a noise a strange noise ! No doubt a ghostly voice of a complaining and angry spirit . 
Reassured , Babalatchi made a few paces towards his house , when a very human noise , that of hoarse coughing , reached him from the river . 
He could see nothing , yet some people in a canoe must have been very near , for he heard words spoken in an ordinary tone . 
Do you think this is the place , Ali ? I can see nothing . 
It must be near here , Tuan , answered another voice . 
Shall we try the bank ? No ! . 
If you go poking into the bank in the dark you might stove the canoe on some log . 
Let drift ! Let drift ! . 
This does seem to be a clearing of some sort . 
We may see a light by and by from some house or other . 
In Lakamba's campong there are many houses ? Hey ? A great number , Tuan . 
I do not see any light . 
Let them give way , Ali ! Dayong there ! That order was followed by the splash of paddles , then a sudden cry I see a light . 
I see it ! Now I know where to land , Tuan . 
There was more splashing as the canoe was paddled sharply round and came back up stream close to the bank . 
Call out , said very near a deep voice , which Babalatchi felt sure must belong to a white man . 
Call out and somebody may come with a torch . 
The loud hail that succeeded these words was emitted nearly under the silent listener's nose . 
He saw there an indistinct shape of a boat , not quite alongside the landing place . 
Who speaks on the river ? asked Babalatchi , throwing a tone of surprise into his question . 
A white man , answered Lingard from the canoe . 
Is there not one torch in rich Lakamba's campong to light a guest on his landing ? There are no torches and no men . 
I am alone here , said Babalatchi , with some hesitation . 
Who are you ? Only a servant of Lakamba . 
But land , Tuan Putih , and see my face . 
And you are alone here ? said Lingard , moving with precaution a few steps into the courtyard . 
How dark it is , he muttered to himself one would think the world had been painted black . 
What more did you say , Tuan ? I did not understand your talk . 
I expected to find here . 
But where are they all ? What matters where they are ? said Babalatchi , gloomily . 
Have you come to see my people ? The last departed on a long journey and I am alone . 
I came to see a white man , said Lingard , walking on slowly . 
He is not gone , is he ? No ! answered Babalatchi , at his elbow . 
A man with a red skin and hard eyes , he went on , musingly , whose hand is strong , and whose heart is foolish and weak . 
They were now at the foot of the short ladder which led to the split bamboo platform surrounding Babalatchi's habitation . 
The faint light from the doorway fell down upon the two men's faces as they stood looking at each other curiously . 
Is he there ? asked Lingard , in a low voice , with a wave of his hand upwards . 
Babalatchi , staring hard at his long expected visitor , did not answer at once . 
No , not there , he said at last , placing his foot on the lowest rung and looking back . 
Not there , Tuan yet not very far . 
Will you sit down in my dwelling ? There may be rice and fish and clear water not from the river , but from a spring . 
I am not hungry , interrupted Lingard , curtly , and I did not come here to sit in your dwelling . 
Lead me to the white man who expects me . 
I have no time to lose . 
The night is long , Tuan , went on Babalatchi , softly , and there are other nights and other days . 
How much time it takes for a man to die ! O Rajah Laut ! Lingard started . 
You know me ! he exclaimed . 
You do not remember but I have not forgotten . 
There are many men like me there is only one Rajah Laut . 
He climbed with sudden agility the last few steps , and stood on the platform waving his hand invitingly to Lingard , who followed after a short moment of indecision . 
Babalatchi moved about in the shadows , whispering to an indistinct form or two that flitted about at the far end of the hut . 
Without stirring Lingard glanced sideways , and caught sight of muffled up human shapes that hovered for a moment near the edge of light and retreated suddenly back into the darkness . 
Babalatchi approached , and sat at Lingard's feet on a rolled up bundle of mats . 
Will you eat rice and drink sagueir ? he said . 
I have waked up my household . 
My friend , said Lingard , without looking at him , when I come to see Lakamba , or any of Lakamba's servants , I am never hungry and never thirsty . 
Tse ! Tse ! Tse ! How can you talk like that , Tuan ! exclaimed Babalatchi , in a horrified tone . 
I talk as I think . 
Old , too , he went on . 
Hai ! broke in Babalatchi , eagerly . 
I got it when I was young . 
He was an Aru trader , a man with a big stomach and a loud voice , and brave very brave . 
When we came up with his prau in the grey morning , he stood aft shouting to his men and fired this gun at us once . 
He paused , laughed softly , and went on in a low , dreamy voice . 
Aye ! aye ! muttered Lingard , nodding his head slowly . 
You should not let it get rusty like this , he added . 
He let the gun fall between his knees , and moving back on his seat , leaned his head against the wall of the hut , crossing his arms on his breast . 
A good gun , went on Babalatchi . 
With the tips of his fingers he touched gently the butt of a revolver peeping out of the right pocket of Lingard's white jacket . 
Take your hand off that , said Lingard sharply , but in a good humoured tone and without making the slightest movement . 
Babalatchi smiled and hitched his seat a little further off . 
For some time they sat in silence . 
Lingard , with his head tilted back , looked downwards with lowered eyelids at Babalatchi , who was tracing invisible lines with his finger on the mat between his feet . 
Outside , they could hear Ali and the other boatmen chattering and laughing round the fire they had lighted in the big and deserted courtyard . 
Well , what about that white man ? said Lingard , quietly . 
It seemed as if Babalatchi had not heard the question . 
He went on tracing elaborate patterns on the floor for a good while . 
At last the Malay lifted his head . 
Hai ! The white man . 
I know ! he murmured absently . 
This white man or another . 
Tuan , he said aloud with unexpected animation , you are a man of the sea ? You know me . 
Why ask ? said Lingard , in a low tone . 
A man of the sea even as we are . 
A true Orang Laut , went on Babalatchi , thoughtfully , not like the rest of the white men . 
I am like other whites , and do not wish to speak many words when the truth is short . 
I came here to see the white man that helped Lakamba against Patalolo , who is my friend . 
Show me where that white man lives I want him to hear my talk . 
Talk only ? Tuan ! Why hurry ? The night is long and death is swift as you ought to know you who have dealt it to so many of my people . 
Many years ago I have faced you , arms in hand . 
Do you not remember ? It was in Carimata far from here . 
I cannot remember every vagabond that came in my way , protested Lingard , seriously . 
Hai ! Hai ! continued Babalatchi , unmoved and dreamy . 
Maybe , maybe , said Lingard , patiently , paying the involuntary tribute of a faint sigh to the memories of the past evoked by Babalatchi's words . 
He had been living with Malays so long and so close that the extreme deliberation and deviousness of their mental proceedings had ceased to irritate him much . 
To night , perhaps , he was less prone to impatience than ever . 
He was disposed , if not to listen to Babalatchi , then to let him talk . 
Justice only ! Nothing was further from his thoughts than such an useless thing as revenge . 
It was his duty that justice should be done and by his own hand . 
He did not like to think how . 
To him , as to Babalatchi , it seemed that the night would be long enough for the work he had to do . 
But he did not define to himself the nature of the work , and he sat very still , and willingly dilatory , under the fearsome oppression of his call . 
What was the good to think about it ? It was inevitable , and its time was near . 
Lingard , like an anchored ship that had broken her sheer , darted about here and there on the rapid tide of his recollections . 
How he had liked the man his assurance , his push , his desire to get on , his conceited good humour and his selfish eloquence . 
He had liked his very faults those faults that had so many , to him , sympathetic sides . 
And he had always dealt fairly by him from the very beginning and he would deal fairly by him now to the very end . 
This last thought darkened Lingard's features with a responsive and menacing frown . 
CHAPTER TWO Babalatchi ceased speaking . 
Lingard shifted his feet a little , uncrossed his arms , and shook his head slowly . 
You people did all this , said Lingard at last , and you will be sorry for it before the dry wind begins to blow again . 
Abdulla's voice will bring the Dutch rule here . 
Babalatchi waved his hand towards the dark doorway . 
Lakamba rules the land now . 
Even a big tree may be killed by a small axe , said Lingard , drily . 
And , remember , my one eyed friend , that axes are made by white hands . 
You will soon find that out , since you have hoisted the flag of the Dutch . 
Ay wa ! said Babalatchi , slowly . 
It is written that the earth belongs to those who have fair skins and hard but foolish hearts . 
The farther away is the master , the easier it is for the slave , Tuan ! You were too near . 
Your voice rang in our ears always . 
Now it is not going to be so . 
The great Rajah in Batavia is strong , but he may be deceived . 
He must speak very loud to be heard here . 
But if we have need to shout , then he must hear the many voices that call for protection . 
He is but a white man . 
If I ever spoke to Patalolo , like an elder brother , it was for your good for the good of all , said Lingard with great earnestness . 
This is a white man's talk , exclaimed Babalatchi , with bitter exultation . 
You think it is only your wisdom and your virtue and your happiness that are true . 
You are stronger than the wild beasts , but not so wise . 
A black tiger knows when he is not hungry you do not . 
He knows the difference between himself and those that can speak you do not understand the difference between yourselves and us who are men . 
You are wise and great and you shall always be fools . 
Lingard looked at the excited statesman curiously . 
Apa ! Apa ! What's the matter ? he murmured , soothingly . 
Whom did I kill here ? Where are my guns ? What have I done ? What have I eaten up ? Babalatchi calmed down , and spoke with studied courtesy . 
You , Tuan , are of the sea , and more like what we are . 
Therefore I speak to you all the words that are in my heart . 
Only once has the sea been stronger than the Rajah of the sea . 
You know it do you ? said Lingard , with pained sharpness . 
Hai ! We have heard about your ship and some rejoiced . 
Not I. Amongst the whites , who are devils , you are a man . 
Trima kassi ! I give you thanks , said Lingard , gravely . 
Babalatchi looked down with a bashful smile , but his face became saddened directly , and when he spoke again it was in a mournful tone . 
Had you come a day sooner , Tuan , you would have seen an enemy die . 
You would have seen him die poor , blind , unhappy with no son to dig his grave and speak of his wisdom and courage . 
Yes you would have seen the man that fought you in Carimata many years ago , die alone but for one friend . 
A great sight to you . 
Not to me , answered Lingard . 
I did not even remember him till you spoke his name just now . 
You do not understand us . 
We fight , we vanquish and we forget . 
True , true , said Babalatchi , with polite irony you whites are so great that you disdain to remember your enemies . 
No ! No ! he went on , in the same tone , you have so much mercy for us , that there is no room for any remembrance . 
Oh , you are great and good ! But it is in my mind that amongst yourselves you know how to remember . 
Is it not so , Tuan ? Lingard said nothing . 
He laid his gun across his knees and stared at the flint lock absently . 
Yes , went on Babalatchi , falling again into a mournful mood , yes , he died in darkness . 
I sat by his side and held his hand , but he could not see the face of him who watched the faint breath on his lips . 
She , whom he had cursed because of the white man , was there too , and wept with covered face . 
The white man walked about the courtyard making many noises . 
Now and then he would come to the doorway and glare at us who mourned . 
He stared with wicked eyes , and then I was glad that he who was dying was blind . 
I was glad for a white man's eyes are not good to see when the devil that lives within is looking out through them . 
Devil ! Hey ? said Lingard , half aloud to himself , as if struck with the obviousness of some novel idea . 
Babalatchi went on At the first hour of the morning he sat up he so weak and said plainly some words that were not meant for human ears . 
I held his hand tightly , but it was time for the leader of brave men to go amongst the Faithful who are happy . 
They of my household brought a white sheet , and I began to dig a grave in the hut in which he died . 
The white man came to the doorway and shouted . 
Angry with her because she beat her breast , and tore her hair , and mourned with shrill cries as a woman should . 
Do you understand what I say , Tuan ? That white man came inside the hut with great fury , and took her by the shoulder , and dragged her out . 
I saw Omar dead , and I saw her at the feet of that white dog who has deceived me . 
I saw his face grey , like the cold mist of the morning I saw his pale eyes looking down at Omar's daughter beating her head on the ground at his feet . 
At the feet of him who is Abdulla's slave . 
Yes , he lives by Abdulla's will . 
That is why I held my hand while I saw all this . 
I held my hand because we are now under the flag of the Orang Blanda , and Abdulla can speak into the ears of the great . 
We must not have any trouble with white men . 
Abdulla has spoken and I must obey . 
That's it , is it ? growled Lingard in his moustache . 
What am I to be angry ? I am only an Orang Laut , and I have fled before your people many times . 
Servant of this one protected of another I have given my counsel here and there for a handful of rice . 
The torch , consumed nearly to the end , burned noisily . 
The pungent taint of unclean things below and about the hut grew heavier , weighing down Lingard's resolution and his thoughts in an irresistible numbness of the brain . 
He thought drowsily of himself and of that man who wanted to see him who waited to see him . 
Who waited ! Night and day . 
A spiteful but vaporous idea floated through his brain that such waiting could not be very pleasant to the fellow . 
Well , let him wait . 
He would see him soon enough . 
And for how long ? Five seconds five minutes say nothing say something . 
What ? No ! Just give him time to take one good look , and then . 
Suddenly Babalatchi began to speak in a soft voice . 
Lingard blinked , cleared his throat sat up straight . 
You know all now , Tuan . 
The best of them all sleeps in the ground in a white sheet , with nothing to mark his grave but the ashes of the hut in which he died . 
Yes , Tuan ! the white man destroyed it himself . 
With a blazing brand in his hand he strode around , shouting to me to come out shouting to me , who was throwing earth on the body of a great leader . 
Yes swearing to me by the name of your God and ours that he would burn me and her in there if we did not make haste . 
Hai ! The white men are very masterful and wise . 
I dragged her out quickly ! Oh , damn it ! exclaimed Lingard then went on in Malay , speaking earnestly . 
That man is not like other white men . 
You know he is not . 
He is not a man at all . 
Babalatchi lifted his hand deprecatingly . 
His eye twinkled , and his red stained big lips , parted by an expressionless grin , uncovered a stumpy row of black teeth filed evenly to the gums . 
Hai ! Hai ! Not like you . 
Not like you , he said , increasing the softness of his tones as he neared the object uppermost in his mind during that much desired interview . 
Not like you , Tuan , who are like ourselves , only wiser and stronger . 
Yet he , also , is full of great cunning , and speaks of you without any respect , after the manner of white men when they talk of one another . 
Lingard leaped in his seat as if he had been prodded . 
He speaks ! What does he say ? he shouted . 
Other words I have forgotten . 
Indeed , Tuan , I have . 
Lingard cut short Babalatchi's protestations by a contemptuous wave of the hand and reseated himself with dignity . 
I shall go , said Babalatchi , and the white man will remain here , alone with the spirit of the dead and with her who has been the delight of his heart . 
He , being white , cannot hear the voice of those that died . 
Never speak ! And never complain with sounds that are not words ? exclaimed Babalatchi , doubtingly . 
It may be so or your ears are dull . 
We Malays hear many sounds near the places where men are buried . 
Yes , even I have heard . 
I do not want to hear any more , he added , nervously . 
Perhaps I was wrong when I . 
There are things I regret . 
The trouble was heavy in his heart when he died . 
Sometimes I think I was wrong . 
but I do not want to hear the complaint of invisible lips . 
Therefore I go , Tuan . 
Let the unquiet spirit speak to his enemy the white man who knows not fear , or love , or mercy knows nothing but contempt and violence . 
Lingard swung his legs quickly round the corner of his seat . 
Hallo ! he said , surprised . 
The cloud of smoke stirred , and a slow wisp curled out through the new opening . 
The torch flickered , hissed , and went out , the glowing end falling on the mat , whence Babalatchi snatched it up and tossed it outside through the open square . 
It described a vanishing curve of red light , and lay below , shining feebly in the vast darkness . 
Babalatchi remained with his arm stretched out into the empty night . 
There , he said , you can see the white man's courtyard , Tuan , and his house . 
I can see nothing , answered Lingard , putting his head through the shutter hole . 
Wait , Tuan , urged Babalatchi . 
You have been looking long at the burning torch . 
Mind the gun , Tuan . 
There is no flint in it . 
You could not find a fire stone for a hundred miles round this spot , said Lingard , testily . 
Foolish thing to load that gun . 
I had it from a man wise and pious that lives in Menang Kabau . 
A very pious man very good fire . 
He spoke words over that stone that make its sparks good . 
And the gun is good carries straight and far . 
Would carry from here to the door of the white man's house , I believe , Tuan . 
Never mind your gun , muttered Lingard , peering into the formless darkness . 
Is that the house that black thing over there ? he asked . 
Yes , answered Babalatchi that is his house . 
He lives there by the will of Abdulla , and shall live there till . 
Lingard drew his head in . 
Babalatchi touched his shoulder with a groping hand . 
Wait a little , Tuan . 
The morning is not far off now a morning without sun after a night without stars . 
But there will be light enough to see the man who said not many days ago that he alone has made you less than a child in Sambir . 
He felt a slight tremor under his hand , but took it off directly and began feeling all over the lid of the chest , behind Lingard's back , for the gun . 
What are you at ? said Lingard , impatiently . 
You do worry about that rotten gun . 
You had better get a light . 
Perhaps it is near , said Lingard , leaning both his elbows on the lower cross piece of the primitive window and looking out . 
It is very black outside yet , he remarked carelessly . 
It is not good for you to sit where you may be seen , he muttered . 
Why not ? asked Lingard . 
The white man sleeps , it is true , explained Babalatchi , softly yet he may come out early , and he has arms . 
Ah ! he has arms ? said Lingard . 
Yes a short gun that fires many times like yours here . 
Abdulla had to give it to him . 
Lingard heard Babalatchi's words , but made no movement . 
To the old adventurer the idea that fire arms could be dangerous in other hands than his own did not occur readily , and certainly not in connection with Willems . 
He had made up his mind , and the thing was as well as done . 
In his weary thoughts he had closed this fatal , inexplicable , and horrible episode in his life . 
The coming days would see the retribution . 
He had removed an enemy once or twice before , out of his path he had paid off some very heavy scores a good many times . 
Nobody of those he knew had ever cared to point out to him the errors of his conceptions . 
I would do it again . 
But nobody had ever seen him in the mood he was in now . 
The smooth darkness filling the shutter hole grew paler and became blotchy with ill defined shapes , as if a new universe was being evolved out of sombre chaos . 
Look , Tuan ! he said . 
That is the door his door . 
Through it he will appear soon , with his hair in disorder and his mouth full of curses . 
He is a white man , and never satisfied . 
It is in my mind he is angry even in his sleep . 
As Tuan may observe , he went on , obsequiously , his door faces this opening , where you condescend to sit , which is concealed from all eyes . 
Faces it straight and not far . 
Observe , Tuan , not at all far . 
Yes , yes I can see . 
I shall see him when he wakes . 
If you remain here he can not see you . 
I shall withdraw quickly and prepare my canoe myself . 
I am only a poor man , and must go to Sambir to greet Lakamba when he opens his eyes . 
I must bow before Abdulla who has strength even more strength than you . 
Yes , he plotted with Abdulla for that cursed flag . 
Lakamba was blind then , and I was deceived . 
But you , Tuan ! Remember , he deceived you more . 
Of that he boasted before all men . 
He leaned the gun quietly against the wall close to the window , and said softly Shall I go now , Tuan ? Be careful of the gun . 
I have put the fire stone in . 
The fire stone of the wise man , which never fails . 
Lingard's eyes were fastened on the distant doorway . 
Behind his back Lingard heard a shuffle of feet women leaving the hut . 
In the other courtyard a voice was heard complaining of cold , and coming very feeble , but exceedingly distinct , out of the vast silence of the abandoned houses and clearings . 
From under the house the thumping of wooden pestles husking the rice started with unexpected abruptness . 
Nevertheless this gun carries far and true if you would want to know , Tuan . 
And I have put in a double measure of powder , and three slugs . 
When Babalatchi commenced speaking , Lingard turned slowly round and gazed upon him with the dull and unwilling look of a sick man waking to another day of suffering . 
As the astute statesman proceeded , Lingard's eyebrows came close , his eyes became animated , and a big vein stood out on his forehead , accentuating a lowering frown . 
When speaking his last words Babalatchi faltered , then stopped , confused , before the steady gaze of the old seaman . 
His face cleared , and he looked down at the anxious Babalatchi with sudden benevolence . 
So ! That's what you were after , he said , laying a heavy hand on Babalatchi's yielding shoulder . 
You thought I came here to murder him . 
Hey ? Speak ! You faithful dog of an Arab trader ! And what else , Tuan ? shrieked Babalatchi , exasperated into sincerity . 
What else , Tuan ! Remember what he has done he poisoned our ears with his talk about you . 
If you did not come to kill , Tuan , then either I am a fool or . 
He paused , struck his naked breast with his open palm , and finished in a discouraged whisper or , Tuan , you are . 
Lingard looked down at him with scornful serenity . 
After his long and painful gropings amongst the obscure abominations of Willems' conduct , the logical if tortuous evolutions of Babalatchi's diplomatic mind were to him welcome as daylight . 
There was something at last he could understand the clear effect of a simple cause . 
He felt indulgent towards the disappointed sage . 
So you are angry with your friend , O one eyed one ! he said slowly , nodding his fierce countenance close to Babalatchi's discomfited face . 
It seems to me that you must have had much to do with what happened in Sambir lately . 
Hey ? You son of a burnt father . 
May I perish under your hand , O Rajah of the sea , if my words are not true ! said Babalatchi , with reckless excitement . 
You are here in the midst of your enemies . 
Abdulla would do nothing without him , and I could do nothing without Abdulla . 
March out ! He pushed Babalatchi through the doorway and followed him down the short ladder into the courtyard . 
The boatmen squatting over the fire turned their slow eyes with apparent difficulty towards the two men then , unconcerned , huddled close together again , stretching forlornly their hands over the embers . 
The women stopped in their work and with uplifted pestles flashed quick and curious glances from the gloom under the house . 
Is that the way ? asked Lingard with a nod towards the little wicket gate of Willems' enclosure . 
If you seek death , that is surely the way , answered Babalatchi in a dispassionate voice , as if he had exhausted all the emotions . 
He lives there he who destroyed your friends who hastened Omar's death who plotted with Abdulla first against you , then against me . 
I have been like a child . 
I go where I like , said Lingard , emphatically , and you may go to the devil I do not want you any more . 
The islands of these seas shall sink before I , Rajah Laut , serve the will of any of your people . 
Tau ? But I tell you this I do not care what you do with him after to day . 
And I say that because I am merciful . 
Tida ! I do nothing , said Babalatchi , shaking his head with bitter apathy . 
I am in Abdulla's hand and care not , even as you do . 
No ! no ! he added , turning away , I have learned much wisdom this morning . 
There are no men anywhere . 
You whites are cruel to your friends and merciful to your enemies which is the work of fools . 
He went away towards the riverside , and , without once looking back , disappeared in the low bank of mist that lay over the water and the shore . 
Lingard followed him with his eyes thoughtfully . 
After awhile he roused himself and called out to his boatmen Hai ya there ! After you have eaten rice , wait for me with your paddles in your hands . 
Instinctively he glanced upwards with a seaman's impulse . 
Above him , under the grey motionless waste of a stormy sky , drifted low black vapours , in stretching bars , in shapeless patches , in sinuous wisps and tormented spirals . 
Over the courtyard and the house floated a round , sombre , and lingering cloud , dragging behind a tail of tangled and filmy streamers like the dishevelled hair of a mourning woman . 
Besides himself there was no one in the courtyard as far as he could see . 
Her order , she repeated , with a moaning sigh . 
And did she hear ? pursued Lingard , with gentle composure . 
Her projecting shoulder blades moved uneasily under the thin stuff of the tight body jacket . 
She scrambled up with difficulty to her feet , and hobbled away , muttering peevishly to herself , towards a pile of dry brushwood heaped up against the fence . 
Lingard , looking idly after her , heard the rattle of loose planks that led from the ground to the door of the house . 
He moved his head beyond the shelter of the tree and saw Aissa coming down the inclined way into the courtyard . 
After making a few hurried paces towards the tree , she stopped with one foot advanced in an appearance of sudden terror , and her eyes glanced wildly right and left . 
A blue cloth wrapped her from her head to foot in close slanting folds , with one end thrown over her shoulder . 
A tress of her black hair strayed across her bosom . 
After a short but attentive glance towards the shut up house , Lingard stepped out from behind the tree and advanced slowly towards her . 
The sudden fixity of her till then restless eyes and a slight twitch of her hands were the only signs she gave at first of having seen him . 
Lingard stopped and looked at her with stern curiosity . 
After a while he said composedly Let me pass . 
I came here to talk to a man . 
Does he hide ? Has he sent you ? She made a step nearer , her arms fell by her side , then she put them straight out nearly touching Lingard's breast . 
He knows not fear , she said , speaking low , with a forward throw of her head , in a voice trembling but distinct . 
It is my own fear that has sent me here . 
He has slept long enough , said Lingard , in measured tones . 
I am come and now is the time of his waking . 
Go and tell him this or else my own voice will call him up . 
A voice he knows well . 
He put her hands down firmly and again made as if to pass by her . 
Do not ! she exclaimed , and fell at his feet as if she had been cut down by a scythe . 
The unexpected suddenness of her movement startled Lingard , who stepped back . 
Lingard went on in a severe voice Go out of my path . 
You are Omar's daughter , and you ought to know that when men meet in daylight women must be silent and abide their fate . 
Women ! she retorted , with subdued vehemence . 
What more have you done ? That was my life . 
What has been yours ? The matter and the manner of her speech held Lingard motionless , attentive and approving against his will . 
Lingard moved a little , and this slight stir near her precipitated her disordered and shapeless thoughts into hurried words . 
Wait ! she exclaimed in a stifled voice , and went on disconnectedly and rapidly Stay . 
Men often spoke by the fires . 
And they said of you the first on the sea they said that to men's cries you were deaf in battle , but after . 
No ! even while you fought , your ears were open to the voice of children and women . 
Now I , a woman , I . 
My ears are open to your prayer . 
But listen to me before you speak . 
For yourself you need not be afraid . 
You can come even now with me and you shall find refuge in the household of Syed Abdulla who is of your own faith . 
And this also you must know nothing that you may say will change my purpose towards the man who is sleeping or hiding in that house . 
And he himself ! She clung to him . 
She would try to cling to him always all the life ! And yet he was far from her . 
Every day he seemed more distant , and she followed him patiently , hopefully , blindly , but steadily , through all the devious wanderings of his mind . 
She followed as well as she could . 
Yet at times very often lately she had felt lost like one strayed in the thickets of tangled undergrowth of a great forest . 
She had watched him watched him close fascinated by love , fascinated by danger . 
He was alone now but for her and she saw she thought she saw that he was like a man afraid of something . 
Was it possible ? He afraid ? Of what ? Was it of that old white man who was coming who had come ? Possibly . 
She had heard of that man ever since she could remember . 
She cried Your purpose ! You know nothing . 
He interrupted unreasonably excited , as if she had , by her look , inoculated him with some of her own distress . 
I look at him I see his every breath , every glance of his eye , every movement of his lips . 
I see nothing else ! What else is there ? And even I do not understand . 
His eyes winked quickly , because she spoke very close to his face . 
She added after a pause There has been a time when I could understand him . 
When I knew what was in his mind better than he knew it himself . 
And now he has escaped . 
Escaped ? What ? Gone away ! shouted Lingard . 
Escaped from me , she said left me alone . 
And I am ever near him . 
Aye ! Very well ! I understand . 
His face is turned away from you , said Lingard . 
Now , what do you want ? I want . 
I have looked for help . 
First they came , the invisible whites , and dealt death from afar . 
He came to me who was alone and sad . 
He came angry with his brothers great amongst his own people angry with those I have not seen with the people where men have no mercy and women have no shame . 
He was of them , and great amongst them . 
For he was great ? Lingard shook his head slightly . 
She frowned at him , and went on in disordered haste Listen . 
I have lived by the side of brave men . 
When he came I was the daughter of a beggar of a blind man without strength and hope . 
He spoke to me as if I had been brighter than the sunshine more delightful than the cool water of the brook by which we met more . 
He lifted both his hands , incongruously paternal in his venerable aspect , bewildered and soothing , while she stretched her neck forward and shouted at him . 
I tell you I was all that to him . 
I know it ! I saw it ! . 
There are times when even you white men speak the truth . 
I felt his eyes , I tell you ! I saw him tremble when I came near when I spoke when I touched him . 
Look at me ! You have been young . 
Lingard's eyes followed her look , and remained gazing expectantly at the house . 
After a minute or so he muttered , glancing at her suspiciously If he has not heard your voice now , then he must be far away or dead . 
He is there , she whispered , a little calmed but still anxious he is there . 
For three days he waited . 
Waited for you night and day . 
And I waited with him . 
I waited , watching his face , his eyes , his lips listening to his words . 
To the words I could not understand . 
To the words he spoke in daylight to the words he spoke at night in his short sleep . 
He spoke to himself walking up and down here by the river by the bushes . 
I wanted to know and I could not ! He was tormented by things that made him speak in the words of his own people . 
Speak to himself not to me . 
Not to me ! What was he saying ? What was he going to do ? Was he afraid of you ? Of death ? What was in his heart ? . 
what sadness ? He spoke spoke many words . 
All the time ! And I could not know ! I wanted to speak to him . 
He was deaf to me . 
I followed him everywhere , watching for some word I could understand but his mind was in the land of his people away from me . 
When I touched him he was angry so ! She imitated the movement of some one shaking off roughly an importunate hand , and looked at Lingard with tearful and unsteady eyes . 
And my heart was heavy heavy with the presence of death that dwelt amongst us . 
I thought he was afraid . 
Afraid of you ! Then I , myself , knew fear . 
It struck forward , pushed by my desire by his desire of me . 
It struck that strong hand , and O shame ! it killed nobody ! Its fierce and lying blow woke up hate without any fear . 
Round me all was lies . 
His strength was a lie . 
My own people lied to me and to him . 
And to meet you you , the great ! he had no one but me ? But me with my rage , my pain , my weakness . 
Only me ! And to me he would not even speak . 
Lingard looked at her , astounded but unflinching . 
She spoke in his face , very low . 
He is all ! Everything . 
He is my breath , my light , my heart . 
He has no courage and no wisdom any more . 
and I have lost my power . 
He had been a man once . 
Leave him to me and go away . 
The fragments of her supplicating sentences were as if tossed on the crest of her sobs . 
He answered , not looking at her at first , but speaking towards the house that fascinated him I go away ! He wanted me to come he himself did ! . 
You do not know what you are asking for . 
Go to your own people . 
He paused , looked down at her with his steady eyes hesitated , as if seeking an adequate expression then snapped his fingers , and said Finish . 
The tone of her words was gentle and vibrating , like a loud meditation . 
She said Tell the brook not to run to the river tell the river not to run to the sea . 
Maybe they will obey you . 
But it is in my mind that the brook will not care . 
The brook that springs out of the hillside and runs to the great river . 
He would not care for your words he that cares not for the very mountain that gave him life he that tears the earth from which he springs . 
Tears it , eats it , destroys it to hurry faster to the river to the river in which he is lost for ever . 
O Rajah Laut ! I do not care . 
You do not know what I have done . 
You shall have his life , said Lingard , hastily . 
They stood together , crossing their glances she suddenly appeased , and Lingard thoughtful and uneasy under a vague sense of defeat . 
And yet there was no defeat . 
He never intended to kill the fellow not after the first moment of anger , a long time ago . 
The days of bitter wonder had killed anger had left only a bitter indignation and a bitter wish for complete justice . 
He felt discontented and surprised . 
Unexpectedly he had come upon a human being a woman at that who had made him disclose his will before its time . 
She should have his life . 
But she must be told , she must know , that for such men as Willems there was no favour and no grace . 
Understand , he said slowly , that I leave him his life not in mercy but in punishment . 
She started , watched every word on his lips , and after he finished speaking she remained still and mute in astonished immobility . 
She wrung her hands in the bewilderment of the new and incomprehensible fear . 
The anguish of her whisper was more piercing than the shrillest cry . 
What punishment ! Will you take him away then ? Away from me ? Listen to what I have done . 
Ah ! exclaimed Lingard , who had been looking at the house . 
Don't you believe her , Captain Lingard , shouted Willems from the doorway , where he appeared with swollen eyelids and bared breast . 
He stood for a while , his hands grasping the lintels on each side of the door , and writhed about , glaring wildly , as if he had been crucified there . 
Then he made a sudden rush head foremost down the plankway that responded with hollow , short noises to every footstep . 
CHAPTER FOUR When he felt the solid ground of the courtyard under his feet , Willems pulled himself up in his headlong rush and moved forward with a moderate gait . 
Through this silence Willems pushed his way , and stopped about six feet from Lingard . 
He stopped simply because he could go no further . 
He had started from the door with the reckless purpose of clapping the old fellow on the shoulder . 
He had no idea that the man would turn out to be so tall , so big and so unapproachable . 
It seemed to him that he had never , never in his life , seen Lingard . 
He tried to say Do not believe . 
A fit of coughing checked his sentence in a faint splutter . 
Then that , too , did not move . 
Well , said Lingard , and with that word he came unexpectedly to the end of his speech . 
And he was not going to let him go to let him disappear for ever in the faint blue smoke of a pistol shot . 
His anger grew within him . 
He felt a touch as of a burning hand on his heart . 
He drew a long breath . 
He could see before him the bare chest of the man expanding and collapsing under the wide open jacket . 
And nearly a minute passed . 
One of those minutes when the voice is silenced , while the thoughts flutter in the head , like captive birds inside a cage , in rushes desperate , exhausting and vain . 
During that minute of silence Lingard's anger kept rising , immense and towering , such as a crested wave running over the troubled shallows of the sands . 
Its roar filled his cars a roar so powerful and distracting that , it seemed to him , his head must burst directly with the expanding volume of that sound . 
He looked at that man . 
For the fraction of a second he had the illusion and the fear of the scoundrel having died there before the enraged glance of his eyes . 
Willems' eyelids fluttered , and the unconscious and passing tremor in that stiffly erect body exasperated Lingard like a fresh outrage . 
The fellow dared to stir ! Dared to wink , to breathe , to exist here , right before his eyes ! His grip on the revolver relaxed gradually . 
As the transport of his rage increased , so also his contempt for the instruments that pierce or stab , that interpose themselves between the hand and the object of hate . 
He wanted another kind of satisfaction . 
Naked hands , by heaven ! No firearms . 
He let go the revolver altogether , stood hesitating , then throwing his hands out , strode forward and everything passed from his sight . 
He heard screams round him in that obscurity , screams like the melancholy and pitiful cries of sea birds that dwell on the lonely reefs of great oceans . 
Then suddenly a face appeared within a few inches of his own . 
He felt something in his left hand . 
Ah ! the thing like a snake's head that darts up and down . 
He was back in the world . 
Knock them down his lying throat . 
He drew back his right hand , the fist up to the shoulder , knuckles out . 
From under his feet rose the screams of sea birds . 
He delivered his blow straight from the shoulder , felt the jar right up his arm , and realized suddenly that he was striking something passive and unresisting . 
His heart sank within him with disappointment , with rage , with mortification . 
It should have been the other way . 
They ought to have been very close , and . 
Ah ! He wouldn't fight , he wouldn't resist , he wouldn't defend himself ! A cur ! Evidently a cur ! . 
He was amazed and aggrieved profoundly bitterly with the immense and blank desolation of a small child robbed of a toy . 
He shouted unbelieving Will you be a cheat to the end ? He waited for some answer . 
He waited anxiously with an impatience that seemed to lift him off his feet . 
He waited for some word , some sign for some threatening stir . 
Nothing ! Only two unwinking eyes glittered intently at him above the white sleeve . 
He saw the raised arm detach itself from the face and sink along the body . 
A white clad arm , with a big stain on the white sleeve . 
There was a cut on the cheek . 
A drop of blood hung on the end of some hairs that were glued together it hung for a while and took a leap down on the ground . 
Many more followed , leaping one after another in close file . 
One alighted on the breast and glided down instantly with devious vivacity , like a small insect running away it left a narrow dark track on the white skin . 
He looked at it , looked at the tiny and active drops , looked at what he had done , with obscure satisfaction , with anger , with regret . 
This wasn't much like an act of justice . 
He had a desire to go up nearer to the man , to hear him speak , to hear him say something atrocious and wicked that would justify the violence of the blow . 
He made an attempt to move , and became aware of a close embrace round both his legs , just above the ankles . 
He saw the body of the woman stretched at length , flattened on the ground like a dark blue rag . 
She trailed face downwards , clinging to his leg with both arms in a tenacious hug . 
He saw the top of her head , the long black hair streaming over his foot , all over the beaten earth , around his boot . 
He couldn't see his foot for it . 
He heard the short and repeated moaning of her breath . 
He imagined the invisible face close to his heel . 
With one kick into that face he could free himself . 
He dared not stir , and shouted down Let go ! Let go ! Let go ! The only result of his shouting was a tightening of the pressure of her arms . 
With a tremendous effort he tried to bring his right foot up to his left , and succeeded partly . 
He heard distinctly the rub of her body on the ground as he jerked her along . 
He tried to disengage himself by drawing up his foot . 
He had brought him up . 
The smartest fellow in the islands . 
If he had only stayed with him , then all this . 
He called out to Willems Tell her to let me go or . 
He heard Willems shouting something , waited for awhile , then glanced vaguely down and saw the woman still stretched out perfectly mute and unstirring , with her head at his feet . 
He felt a nervous impatience that , somehow , resembled fear . 
Tell her to let go , to go away , Willems , I tell you . 
I've had enough of this , he cried . 
All right , Captain Lingard , answered the calm voice of Willems , she has let go . 
Take your foot off her hair she can't get up . 
Lingard leaped aside , clean away , and spun round quickly . 
He saw her sit up and cover her face with both hands , then he turned slowly on his heel and looked at the man . 
Willems held himself very straight , but was unsteady on his feet , and moved about nearly on the same spot , like a tipsy man attempting to preserve his balance . 
After gazing at him for a while , Lingard called , rancorous and irritable What have you got to say for yourself ? Willems began to walk towards him . 
Suddenly he drew it , with a brusque movement , down the front of his jacket and left a long smudge . 
That's a fine thing to do , said Willems . 
Lingard said nothing , looking on . 
Speaking with difficulty , he repeated in a reproachful tone That was a fine thing to do . 
After all , answered Lingard , bitterly , I had too good an opinion of you . 
Don't you see that I could have had that fool over there killed and the whole thing burnt to the ground , swept off the face of the earth . 
You wouldn't have found as much as a heap of ashes had I liked . 
I could have done all that . 
You scoundrel ! cried Lingard . 
What's the use of calling me names ? True , retorted Lingard there's no name bad enough for you . 
There was a short interval of silence . 
Willems let the last speech of Lingard pass by seemed by a slight movement of his hand to help it on its way to join the other shadows of the past . 
Then he said You have struck me you have insulted me . 
Insulted you ! interrupted Lingard , passionately . 
Who what can insult you . 
He choked , advanced a step . 
Steady ! steady ! said Willems calmly . 
I tell you I sha'n't fight . 
Is it clear enough to you that I sha'n't ? I shall not lift a finger . 
And they stood exactly opposite each other one tall , slight and disfigured the other tall , heavy and severe . 
Willems went on If I had wanted to hurt you if I had wanted to destroy you , it was easy . 
I stood in the doorway long enough to pull a trigger and you know I shoot straight . 
You would have missed , said Lingard , with assurance . 
There is , under heaven , such a thing as justice . 
The sound of that word on his own lips made him pause , confused , like an unexpected and unanswerable rebuke . 
Would it blow away before the first breath of the breeze and leave nothing behind ? The sound of Willems' voice made him start violently . 
Willems was saying I have always led a virtuous life you know I have . 
You always praised me for my steadiness you know you have . 
You know also I never stole if that's what you're thinking of . 
You know how much I repaid . 
It was an error of judgment . 
But then consider my position there . 
I had been a little unlucky in my private affairs , and had debts . 
Could I let myself go under before the eyes of all those men who envied me ? But that's all over . 
It was an error of judgment . 
Lingard , astounded into perfect stillness , looked down . 
He looked down at Willems' bare feet . 
Then , as the other had paused , he repeated in a blank tone An error of judgment . 
Yes , drawled out Willems , thoughtfully , and went on with increasing animation As I said , I have always led a virtuous life . 
More so than Hudig than you . 
I drank a little , I played cards a little . 
Who doesn't ? But I had principles from a boy . 
Business is business , and I never was an ass . 
They had to suffer for their folly when they dealt with me . 
The evil was in them , not in me . 
But as to principles , it's another matter . 
I kept clear of women . 
It's forbidden I had no time and I despised them . 
He recommenced speaking , and his voice vibrated as though with repressed emotion of some kind . 
You ask my wife , when you see her in Macassar , whether I have no reason to hate her . 
She was nobody , and I made her Mrs. Willems . 
A half caste girl ! You ask her how she showed her gratitude to me . 
Well , you came and dumped me here like a load of rubbish dumped me here and left me with nothing to do nothing good to remember and damn little to hope for . 
You left me here at the mercy of that fool , Almayer , who suspected me of something . 
Of what ? Devil only knows . 
But he suspected and hated me from the first I suppose because you befriended me . 
Oh ! I could read him like a book . 
He isn't very deep , your Sambir partner , Captain Lingard , but he knows how to be disagreeable . 
I thought I would die of sheer weariness , of my thoughts , of my regrets And then . 
CHAPTER FIVE Willems turned a little from her and spoke lower . 
Look at that , he said , with an almost imperceptible movement of his head towards the woman to whom he was presenting his shoulder . 
Look at that ! Don't believe her ! What has she been saying to you ? What ? I have been asleep . 
Had to sleep at last . 
I've been waiting for you three days and nights . 
I had to sleep some time . 
Hadn't I ? I told her to remain awake and watch for you , and call me at once . 
You can't believe any woman . 
Who can tell what's inside their heads ? No one . 
The only thing you can know is that it isn't anything like what comes through their lips . 
They live by the side of you . 
At me ! her infernal work . 
What has she been saying ? His voice had sunk to a whisper . 
Lingard listened with great attention , holding his chin in his hand , which grasped a great handful of his white beard . 
His elbow was in the palm of his other hand , and his eyes were still fixed on the ground . 
For three days she wouldn't give me any peace . 
She has been looking for places all over here where I could hide and drop you with a safe shot as you walked up . 
I give you my word . 
Your word , muttered Lingard , contemptuously . 
Ah ! She is a ferocious creature , he went on . 
I wanted to pass the time to do something to have something to think about to forget my troubles till you came back . 
she took me as if I did not belong to myself . 
I did not know there was something in me she could get hold of . 
I , a civilized European , and clever ! She that knew no more than a wild animal ! Well , she found out something in me . 
She found it out , and I was lost . 
I was ready to do anything . 
I resisted but I was ready . 
That frightened me more than anything more than my own sufferings and that was frightful enough , I assure you . 
Lingard listened , fascinated and amazed like a child listening to a fairy tale , and , when Willems stopped for breath , he shuffled his feet a little . 
What does he say ? cried out Aissa , suddenly . 
The two men looked at her quickly , and then looked at one another . 
Willems began again , speaking hurriedly I tried to do something . 
Take her away from those people . 
I went to Almayer the biggest blind fool that you ever . 
Then Abdulla came and she went away . 
She took away with her something of me which I had to get back . 
I had to do it . 
As far as you are concerned , the change here had to happen sooner or later you couldn't be master here for ever . 
It isn't what I have done that torments me . 
It's the madness that drove me to it . 
It's that thing that came over me . 
That may come again , some day . 
It will do no harm to anybody then , I promise you , said Lingard , significantly . 
Willems looked at him for a second with a blank stare , then went on I fought against her . 
She goaded me to violence and to murder . 
She pushed me to it persistently , desperately , all the time . 
I don't know what I wouldn't have done . 
Held me like a nightmare that is terrible and sweet . 
By and by it was another life . 
I found myself beside an animal as full of harm as a wild cat . 
You don't know through what I have passed . 
Her father tried to kill me and she very nearly killed him . 
I believe she would have stuck at nothing . 
I don't know which was more terrible ! She would have stuck at nothing to defend her own . 
And when I think that it was me me Willems . 
To morrow she may want my life . 
Don't you ? said Lingard , thoughtfully . 
Willems turned towards Aissa and pointed at her with a bony forefinger . 
Look at her ! Always there . 
Ain't they big ? Don't they stare ? You wouldn't think she can shut them like human beings do . 
I don't believe she ever does . 
While I am still they are still . 
By God she can't move them till I stir , and then they follow me like a pair of jailers . 
They watch me when I stop they seem to wait patient and glistening till I am off my guard for to do something . 
Look at them ! You can see nothing in them . 
They are big , menacing and empty . 
The eyes of a savage of a damned mongrel , half Arab , half Malay . 
They hurt me ! I am white ! I swear to you I can't stand this ! Take me away . 
I am white ! All white ! He shouted towards the sombre heaven , proclaiming desperately under the frown of thickening clouds the fact of his pure and superior descent . 
Lingard , who was looking down as if absorbed in deep thought , gave him a quick glance from under his eyebrows Aissa stood with clasped hands . 
Willems' voice filled the enclosure , rising louder with every word , and then , suddenly , at its very loudest , stopped short like water stops running from an over turned vessel . 
As soon as it had ceased the thunder seemed to take up the burden in a low growl coming from the inland hills . 
He felt a great emptiness in his heart . 
He could not see why he should not remain standing there , without ever doing anything , to the end of time . 
He felt something , something like a heavy chain , that held him there . 
He backed away a little from Willems and Aissa , leaving them close together , then stopped and looked at both . 
The man and the woman appeared to him much further than they really were . 
He had made only about three steps backward , but he believed for a moment that another step would take him out of earshot for ever . 
They appeared to him slightly under life size , and with a great cleanness of outlines , like figures carved with great precision of detail and highly finished by a skilful hand . 
The strong consciousness of his own personality came back to him . 
He had a notion of surveying them from a great and inaccessible height . 
He said slowly You have been possessed of a devil . 
Yes , answered Willems gloomily , and looking at Aissa . 
Isn't it pretty ? I've heard this kind of talk before , said Lingard , in a scornful tone then paused , and went on steadily after a while I regret nothing . 
I picked you up by the waterside , like a starving cat by God . 
I regret nothing nothing that I have done . 
Abdulla twenty others no doubt Hudig himself , were after me . 
Money belongs to him who picks it up and is strong enough to keep it but this thing was different . 
It was part of my life . 
I am an old fool . 
Willems said hurriedly It wasn't me . 
The evil was not in me , Captain Lingard . 
And where else confound you ! Where else ? interrupted Lingard , raising his voice . 
Did you ever see me cheat and lie and steal ? Tell me that . 
Did you ? Hey ? I wonder where in perdition you came from when I found you under my feet . 
You will do no more harm . 
Willems moved nearer , gazing upon him anxiously . 
Lingard went on with distinct deliberation What did you expect when you asked me to see you ? What ? You know me . 
You knew what you had done . 
Well ! What did you expect ? How can I know ? groaned Willems , wringing his hands I was alone in that infernal savage crowd . 
I was delivered into their hands . 
In the whole world there was only one man that had ever cared for me . 
You ! Hate is better than being alone ! Death is better ! I expected . 
Something to take me out of this . 
Out of her sight ! He laughed . 
When I think that when I first knew her it seemed to me that my whole life wouldn't be enough to . 
And now when I look at her ! She did it all . 
I must have been mad . 
Every time I look at her I remember my madness . 
He hid his face for a moment in his hands , and when he took them away he had lost the appearance of comparative calm and gave way to a wild distress . 
Shut up ! shouted Lingard , roughly . 
He became dumb , suddenly , completely . 
The clouds over their heads thickened into a low vault of uniform blackness . 
The air was still and inexpressibly oppressive . 
Lingard unbuttoned his jacket , flung it wide open and , inclining his body sideways a little , wiped his forehead with his hand , which he jerked sharply afterwards . 
Then he looked at Willems and said No promise of yours is any good to me . 
I am going to take your conduct into my own hands . 
Pay attention to what I am going to say . 
Willems' head moved imperceptibly then he became rigid and still . 
He seemed not to breathe . 
You shall stay here , continued Lingard , with sombre deliberation . 
You are not fit to go amongst people . 
Who could suspect , who could guess , who could imagine what's in you ? I couldn't ! You are my mistake . 
I shall hide you here . 
If I let you out you would go amongst unsuspecting men , and lie , and steal , and cheat for a little money or for some woman . 
I don't care about shooting you . 
It would be the safest way though . 
Do not expect me to forgive you . 
To forgive one must have been angry and become contemptuous , and there is nothing in me now no anger , no contempt , no disappointment . 
To me you are not Willems , the man I befriended and helped through thick and thin , and thought much of . 
You are not a human being that may be destroyed or forgiven . 
You are a bitter thought , a something without a body and that must be hidden . 
He ceased and looked slowly round . 
How dark it was ! It seemed to him that the light was dying prematurely out of the world and that the air was already dead . 
Of course , he went on , I shall see to it that you don't starve . 
You don't mean to say that I must live here , Captain Lingard ? said Willems , in a kind of mechanical voice without any inflections . 
Did you ever hear me say something I did not mean ? asked Lingard . 
You said you didn't want to die here well , you must live . 
Unless you change your mind , he added , as if in involuntary afterthought . 
He looked at Willems narrowly , then shook his head . 
You are alone , he went on . 
You are neither white nor brown . 
You have no colour as you have no heart . 
Your accomplices have abandoned you to me because I am still somebody to be reckoned with . 
You are alone but for that woman there . 
You say you did this for her . 
Well , you have her . 
Willems mumbled something , and then suddenly caught his hair with both his hands and remained standing so . 
Aissa , who had been looking at him , turned to Lingard . 
What did you say , Rajah Laut ? she cried . 
Lingard looked at her pityingly before he said I have told him that he must live here all his life . 
Aissa looked at Willems , who remained still , as though he had been changed into stone in the very act of tearing his hair . 
Then she turned her head towards Lingard and shouted You lie ! You lie ! . 
Willems let his hands fall , and began to mumble again . 
Lingard turned his ear towards him instinctively , caught something that sounded like Very well then some more mumbling then a sigh . 
As far as the rest of the world is concerned , said Lingard , after waiting for awhile in an attentive attitude , your life is finished . 
Nobody will be able to throw any of your villainies in my teeth nobody will be able to point at you and say , 'Here goes a scoundrel of Lingard's up bringing . 
And you think that I will stay . 
that I will submit ? exclaimed Willems , as if he had suddenly recovered the power of speech . 
You needn't stay here on this spot , said Lingard , drily . 
There are the forests and here is the river . 
Fifteen miles up , or forty down . 
At one end you will meet Almayer , at the other the sea . 
He burst into a short , joyless laugh , then added with severe gravity There is also another way . 
If you want to drive my soul into damnation by trying to drive me to suicide you will not succeed , said Willems in wild excitement . 
Take that woman away she is sin . 
A hooked dart of fire tore in two the darkness of the distant horizon and lit up the gloom of the earth with a dazzling and ghastly flame . 
Then the thunder was heard far away , like an incredibly enormous voice muttering menaces . 
Lingard said I don't care what happens , but I may tell you that without that woman your life is not worth much not twopence . 
There is a fellow here who . 
and Abdulla himself wouldn't stand on any ceremony . 
Think of that ! And then she won't go . 
He began , even while he spoke , to walk slowly down towards the little gate . 
He didn't look , but he felt as sure that Willems was following him as if he had been leading him by a string . 
Directly he had passed through the wicket gate into the big courtyard he heard a voice , behind his back , saying I think she was right . 
I ought to have shot you . 
I couldn't have been worse off . 
Time yet , answered Lingard , without stopping or looking back . 
But , you see , you can't . 
There is not even that in you . 
Don't provoke me , Captain Lingard , cried Willems . 
Provoke you ! said the old adventurer , as soon as he could make himself heard . 
Whose fault ? said Lingard , sharply . 
Ali , who was walking last , stopped before Lingard , very stiff and upright . 
He said That one eyed Babalatchi is gone , with all his women . 
All the pots and boxes . 
He grinned as if the thing had been amusing , then added with an appearance of anxious concern , Rain coming . 
We return , said Lingard . 
Aye , aye , sir ! ejaculated Ali with precision , and moved on . 
He had been quartermaster with Lingard before making up his mind to stay in Sambir as Almayer's head man . 
He strutted towards the landing place thinking proudly that he was not like those other ignorant boatmen , and knew how to answer properly the very greatest of white captains . 
You have misunderstood me from the first , Captain Lingard , said Willems . 
Have I ? It's all right , as long as there is no mistake about my meaning , answered Lingard , strolling slowly to the landing place . 
Willems followed him , and Aissa followed Willems . 
Two hands were extended to help Lingard in embarking . 
He stepped cautiously and heavily into the long and narrow canoe , and sat in the canvas folding chair that had been placed in the middle . 
He leaned back and turned his head to the two figures that stood on the bank a little above him . 
Aissa's eyes were fastened on his face in a visible impatience to see him gone . 
Willems' look went straight above the canoe , straight at the forest on the other side of the river . 
All right , Ali , said Lingard , in a low voice . 
A slight stir animated the faces , and a faint murmur ran along the line of paddlers . 
We shall meet again , Captain Lingard ! cried Willems , in an unsteady voice . 
Never ! said Lingard , turning half round in his chair to look at Willems . 
His fierce red eyes glittered remorselessly over the high back of his seat . 
Water less quick over there , said Ali . 
He pushed in his turn now with all his strength , throwing his body recklessly right out over the stern . 
Then he recovered himself just in time into the squatting attitude of a monkey perched on a high shelf , and shouted Dayong ! The paddles struck the water together . 
The canoe darted forward and went on steadily crossing the river with a sideways motion made up of its own speed and the downward drift of the current . 
Lingard watched the shore astern . 
The woman shook her hand at him , and then squatted at the feet of the man who stood motionless . 
Lingard turned away and threw himself back in his chair , stretching his legs out with a sigh of fatigue . 
He could see plainly the figure of the man sitting in the middle . 
And now that man was going away . 
He must call him back . 
He shouted , and his words , which he wanted to throw across the river , seemed to fall helplessly at his feet . 
Aissa put her hand on his arm in a restraining attempt , but he shook it off . 
He wanted to call back his very life that was going away from him . 
He shouted again and this time he did not even hear himself . 
Willems looked on , as motionless as everything round him and above him . 
From time to time he felt on his face the passing , warm touch of an immense breath coming from beyond the forest , like the short panting of an oppressed world . 
He wanted to run away , but when he moved it was to slide about painfully and slowly upon that earth which had become mud so suddenly under his feet . 
The tree , the bushes , the house , and the fences all had disappeared in the thickness of the falling rain . 
Their hair stuck , streaming , to their heads their clothing clung to them , beaten close to their bodies water ran off them , off their heads over their shoulders . 
Aissa ! He had forgotten her . 
He turned , and she clasped him round the neck instantly , pressing close to him as if afraid of violence or escape . 
She did not understand him not a word . 
He spoke in the language of his people of his people that know no mercy and no shame . 
Alas ! he was always angry now , and always speaking words that she could not understand . 
She stood in silence , looking at him through her patient eyes , while he shook her arms a little and then flung them down . 
Don't follow me ! he shouted . 
I want to be alone I mean to be left alone ! He went in , leaving the door open . 
She stood near the doorway . 
He was there alone in the gloom of the dwelling . 
What was in his mind now ? What fear ? What desire ? Not the desire of her as in the days when he used to smile . 
How could she know ? . 
A sigh coming from the bottom of her heart , flew out into the world through her parted lips . 
She let go her hair , that fell scattered over her shoulders like a funeral veil , and she sank down suddenly by the door . 
Her hands clasped her ankles she rested her head on her drawn up knees , and remained still , very still , under the streaming mourning of her hair . 
He stared on the river , past the schooner anchored in mid stream , past the forests of the left bank he stared through and past the illusion of the material world . 
Abreast of the house the river was empty but for the motionless schooner . 
And yet all this was very precious to him . 
It was the present sign of a splendid future . 
What an abominable brute ! he said . 
He was alone , but he spoke aloud , as one is apt to do under the impulse of a strong , of an overmastering thought . 
What a brute ! he muttered again . 
And suddenly the light disappeared as if lost in the immensity of the great , blue , and empty hollow overhead . 
The sun had set and the forests became a straight wall of formless blackness . 
Above them , on the edge of lingering clouds , a single star glimmered fitfully , obscured now and then by the rapid flight of high and invisible vapours . 
Almayer fought with the uneasiness within his breast . 
Now he was coming back . 
He would speak directly and Almayer , notwithstanding the absorbing gravity of his thoughts , listened for the sound of expected words . 
He heard them , spoken in English with painstaking distinctness . 
Ready , sir ! All right , said Almayer , curtly . 
He remained pensive , with his back to the table upon which stood the lighted lamp brought by Ali . 
He was thinking Where was Lingard now ? Halfway down the river probably , in Abdulla's ship . 
He would be back in about three days perhaps less . 
For ever ! What did that mean for ever ? Perhaps a year , perhaps ten years . 
Preposterous ! Keep him there ten years or may be twenty ! The fellow was capable of living more than twenty years . 
And for all that time he would have to be watched , fed , looked after . 
There was nobody but Lingard to have such notions . 
Lingard would want to go to England . 
And would they leave that man here ? How would that fellow look in ten years ? Very old probably . 
Well , devil take him . 
She would be rich and very pretty and he himself would not be so old then . 
Almayer smiled into the night . 
Yes , rich ! Why ! Of course ! Captain Lingard was a resourceful man , and he had plenty of money even now . 
They were rich already but not enough . 
That gold business was good . 
Famous ! Captain Lingard was a remarkable man . 
He said the gold was there and it was there . 
Lingard knew what he was talking about . 
But he had queer ideas . 
For instance , about Willems . 
Now what did he want to keep him alive for ? Why ? That scoundrel , muttered Almayer again . 
Makan Tuan ! ejaculated Ali suddenly , very loud in a pressing tone . 
Almayer walked to the table , sat down , and his anxious visage dropped from above into the light thrown down by the lamp shade . 
He helped himself absently , and began to eat in great mouthfuls . 
Undoubtedly , Lingard was the man to stick to ! The man undismayed , masterful and ready . 
How quickly he had planned a new future when Willems' treachery destroyed their established position in Sambir ! And the position even now was not so bad . 
What an immense prestige that Lingard had with all those people Arabs , Malays and all . 
Ah , it was good to be able to call a man like that father . 
Fine ! Wonder how much money really the old fellow had . 
People talked they exaggerated surely , but if he had only half of what they said . 
He drank , throwing his head up , and fell to again . 
The beast ! growled Almayer , between two mouthfuls . 
A famous man Lingard yet you never knew what he would do next . 
It was notorious that he had shot a white man once for less than Willems had done . 
Why , for nothing , so to speak ! It was not even his own quarrel . 
It was about some Malay returning from pilgrimage with wife and children . 
Kidnapped , or robbed , or something . 
A stupid story an old story . 
And now he goes to see that Willems and nothing . 
Comes back talking big about his prisoner but after all he said very little . 
What did that Willems tell him ? What passed between them ? The old fellow must have had something in his mind when he let that scoundrel off . 
And Joanna ! She would get round the old fellow . 
Then he would forgive perhaps . 
But at any rate he would waste a lot of money on them . 
The old man was tenacious in his hates , but also in his affections . 
He had known that beast Willems from a boy . 
They would make it up in a year or so . 
Everything is possible why did he not rush off at first and kill the brute ? That would have been more like Lingard . 
Almayer laid down his spoon suddenly , and pushing his plate away , threw himself back in the chair . 
He had no mind to share Lingard's money with anybody . 
Lingard's money was Nina's money in a sense . 
And if Willems managed to become friendly with the old man it would be dangerous for him Almayer . 
Such an unscrupulous scoundrel ! He would oust him from his position . 
He would lie and slander . 
What would become of her ? Poor child . 
For her sake he must remove that Willems . 
But how ? Lingard wanted to be obeyed . 
Incredible , but so it was . 
A wave of heat passed through Almayer's body , flushed his face , and broke out of him in copious perspiration . 
He wriggled in his chair , and pressed his hands together under the table . 
He had a deep emotion , a sudden emotion that made him feel quite faint at the idea of that young life spoiled before it had fairly begun . 
His dear child's life ! Lying back in his chair he covered his face with both his hands . 
He did not understand the other's question , and muttered through his fingers in a doleful tone What did you say ? What ? Finish what ? Clear up meza , explained Ali . 
Clear up ! burst out Almayer , with incomprehensible exasperation . 
Devil take you and the table . 
Ali was clearing the table . 
He dropped negligently the tumbler into the greasy dish , flung there the spoon and fork , then slipped in the plate with a push amongst the remnants of food . 
He took up the dish , tucked up the bottle under his armpit , and went off . 
My hammock ! shouted Almayer after him . 
Ada ! I come soon , answered Ali from the doorway in an offended tone , looking back over his shoulder . 
How could he clear the table and hang the hammock at the same time . 
Ya wa ! Those white men were all alike . 
Wanted everything done at once . 
The indistinct murmur of his criticism went away , faded and died out together with the soft footfall of his bare feet in the dark passage . 
For some time Almayer did not move . 
Now and then he held his breath , unconsciously , too long , and had to relieve himself by a deep expiration that whistled dully through his pursed lips . 
I will do it ! Not till he heard his own voice did he know that he had spoken . 
But I must risk it . 
It's the only way I can see . 
She has some little sense . 
I wish they were a thousand miles off already . 
And she blabs out then to Lingard ? She seemed a fool . 
No probably they will get away . 
And if they did , would Lingard believe me ? Yes . 
I never lied to him . 
Must ! he argued aloud to himself . 
To the left of him , in the whitewashed wall of the house that formed the back of the verandah , there was a closed door . 
Black letters were painted on it proclaiming the fact that behind that door there was the office of Lingard Co . 
The interior had been furnished by Lingard when he had built the house for his adopted daughter and her husband , and it had been furnished with reckless prodigality . 
There was an office desk , a revolving chair , bookshelves , a safe all to humour the weakness of Almayer , who thought all those paraphernalia necessary to successful trading . 
Lingard had laughed , but had taken immense trouble to get the things . 
It pleased him to make his protege , his adopted son in law , happy . 
It had been the sensation of Sambir some five years ago . 
While the things were being landed , the whole settlement literally lived on the river bank in front of the Rajah Laut's house , to look , to wonder , to admire . 
Let us go , brothers , and help pull at the ropes , and perchance we may see what's inside . 
See ! There is a man carrying a pile of books from the boat ! What a number of books . 
What were they for ? . 
And when he saw the room furnished , Almayer had felt proud . 
In his exultation of an empty headed quill driver , he thought himself , by the virtue of that furniture , at the head of a serious business . 
He found out very soon that trade in Sambir meant something entirely different . 
He could not guide Patalolo , control the irrepressible old Sahamin , or restrain the youthful vagaries of the fierce Bahassoen with pen , ink , and paper . 
He found no successful magic in the blank pages of his ledgers and gradually he lost his old point of view in the saner appreciation of his situation . 
The room known as the office became neglected then like a temple of an exploded superstition . 
When Lingard ordered him to receive Joanna into his house , he had a truckle bed put into the office the only room he could spare . 
And the night entered the room . 
To Almayer , Joanna's presence was a constant worry , a worry unobtrusive yet intolerable a constant , but mostly mute , warning of possible danger . 
In view of the absurd softness of Lingard's heart , every one in whom Lingard manifested the slightest interest was to Almayer a natural enemy . 
He was quite alive to that feeling , and in the intimacy of the secret intercourse with his inner self had often congratulated himself upon his own wide awake comprehension of his position . 
In that way , and impelled by that motive , Almayer had hated many and various persons at various times . 
But he never had hated and feared anybody so much as he did hate and fear Willems . 
Even after Willems' treachery , which seemed to remove him beyond the pale of all human sympathy , Almayer mistrusted the situation and groaned in spirit every time he caught sight of Joanna . 
He saw her very seldom in the daytime . 
On one or two occasions she had overwhelmed her host with vituperative abuse , making him responsible for her husband's absence . 
He weighed , anxious and attentive , his fears and his desires against the tremendous risk of a quarrel with Lingard . 
And then he had hold of Lingard through the little girl . 
What an annoyance ! A prisoner ! As if one could keep him in there . 
He was bound to get away some time or other . 
A situation like that can't last . 
Lingard's eccentricity passed all bounds . 
You may kill a man , but you mustn't torture him . 
It caused worry , trouble , and unpleasantness . 
Almayer for a moment felt very angry with Lingard . 
Now if the fellow were dead it would be all right , said Almayer to the verandah . 
In the bottom of the boat there was a gun . 
One of the boatmen would shout , and Willems would answer from the bushes . 
c The rascal would be suspicious . 
Then the man would wave a piece of paper urging Willems to come to the landing place and receive an important message . 
From the Rajah Laut the man would yell as the boat edged in shore , and that would fetch Willems out . 
It made him thrill from head to foot where he stood . 
He sighed , shook his head . 
The balance was at rest now and inclining to the side of immediate action . 
Almayer walked to the door , walked up very close to it , knocked loudly , and turned his head away , looking frightened for a moment at what he had done . 
After waiting for a while he put his ear against the panel and listened . 
He composed his features into an agreeable expression while he stood listening and thinking to himself I hear her . 
I wonder what she thinks . 
It's just like father to make me invent all these stories for nothing at all . 
She isn't deaf , surely . 
He knocked again , then said in a friendly tone , grinning benevolently at the closed door It's me , Mrs. Willems . 
I want to speak to you . 
What is it ? News , repeated Almayer , distinctly . 
Damn him ! he added , under his breath . 
He heard a stumbling rush inside . 
Joanna's agitated voice cried News ! What ? What ? I am coming out . 
Put on some clothes , Mrs. Willems , and let me in . 
You have a candle , haven't you ? She was knocking herself about blindly amongst the furniture in that room . 
He heard her drop on her knees and grope over the floor while she kept on moaning in maddened distraction . 
Oh , my God ! News ! Yes . 
Oh , my God ! . 
Don't go away , for the love of Heaven . 
I don't want to go away , said Almayer , impatiently , through the keyhole but look sharp . 
He stamped his foot lightly , waiting with his hand on the door handle . 
He thought anxiously The woman's a perfect idiot . 
Why should I go away ? She will be off her head . 
She will never catch my meaning . 
She was moving now inside the room hurriedly and in silence . 
He was so astonished that he dropped his bundle and stood staring at the door for a long time . 
He heard the voice of his master talking . 
Talking to that Sirani woman ! Who was she ? He had never thought about that really . 
He speculated for a while hazily upon things in general . 
She was a Sirani woman and ugly . 
He made a disdainful grimace , picked up the bedding , and went about his work , slinging the hammock between two uprights of the verandah . 
Those things did not concern him . 
She was ugly , and brought here by the Rajah Laut , and his master spoke to her in the night . 
He , Ali , had his work to do . 
Sling the hammock go round and see that the watchmen were awake take a look at the moorings of the boats , at the padlock of the big storehouse then go to sleep . 
To sleep ! He shivered pleasantly . 
He leaned with both arms over his master's hammock and fell into a light doze . 
He was thunderstruck with surprise . 
He took it down and came back , missing the petrified Ali by an inch . 
After he had drunk , Almayer went in , closing the door carefully . 
That Sirani woman shrieked ! He felt an immense curiosity very unusual to his stolid disposition . 
He could not take his eyes off the door . 
Was she dead in there ? How interesting and funny ! He stood with open mouth till he heard again the rattle of the door handle . 
He pivoted on his heels with great rapidity and made believe to be absorbed in the contemplation of the night outside . 
He heard Almayer moving about behind his back . 
His face was gloomy and thoughtful . 
He looked at his head man , who had approached the table , then he pulled out his watch . 
Whenever Lingard was in Sambir Almayer's watch was going . 
He would set it by the cabin clock , telling himself every time that he must really keep that watch going for the future . 
He looked at the watch . 
Go to the settlement , said Almayer , and tell Mahmat Banjer to come and speak to me to night . 
He did not like his errand . 
, and standing just outside their fence . 
Ali disapproved of the favour shown to those strangers . 
Everybody knew they were bad . 
Yet everybody knew of it . 
Almayer , leaning back in his chair , meditated . 
The more he thought , the more he felt convinced that Banjer and his brothers were exactly the men he wanted . 
Those fellows were sea gipsies , and could disappear without attracting notice and if they returned , nobody and Lingard least of all would dream of seeking information from them . 
Moreover , they had no personal interest of any kind in Sambir affairs had taken no sides would know nothing anyway . 
The lamp was between them , and Almayer moved it aside , looking up at her from his chair . 
Compose yourself , Mrs. Willems , said Almayer . 
She emitted an inarticulate sound that seemed to be a faint , a very far off , a hardly audible cry of mortal distress . 
Then the tears went on flowing in profound stillness . 
You must understand that I have told you all this because I am your friend real friend , said Almayer , after looking at her for some time with visible dissatisfaction . 
You , his wife , ought to know the danger he is in . 
Captain Lingard is a terrible man , you know . 
She blubbered out , sniffing and sobbing together . 
the truth now ? Upon my word of honour . 
On the head of my child , protested Almayer . 
I had to deceive you till now because of Captain Lingard . 
But I couldn't bear it . 
Think only what a risk I run in telling you if ever Lingard was to know ! Why should I do it ? Pure friendship . 
Dear Peter was my colleague in Macassar for years , you know . 
what shall I do ! she exclaimed , faintly , looking around on every side as if she could not make up her mind which way to rush off . 
You must help him to clear out , now Lingard is away . 
He offended Lingard , and that's no joke . 
Lingard said he would kill him . 
He will do it , too , said Almayer , earnestly . 
Oh ! the wicked man . 
The wicked , wicked man ! she moaned , swaying her body from side to side . 
Yes ! He is terrible , assented Almayer . 
You must not lose any time . 
I say ! Do you understand me , Mrs. Willems ? Think of your husband . 
How happy he will be . 
You will bring him his life actually his life . 
Oh ! Mother of God ! she wailed . 
I am a miserable woman . 
Will he forgive me ? The poor , innocent man . 
Will he forgive me ? Oh , Mr. Almayer , he is so severe . 
You don't know what I've done to him . 
God help me ! The last words came in a despairing cry . 
Had she been flayed alive she could not have sent to heaven a more terrible , a more heartrending and anguished plaint . 
Sh ! Sh ! hissed Almayer , jumping up . 
You will wake up everybody with your shouting . 
She kept on sobbing then without any noise , and Almayer stared at her in boundless astonishment . 
The idea that , maybe , he had done wrong by confiding in her , upset him so much that for a moment he could not find a connected thought in his head . 
At last he said I swear to you that your husband is in such a position that he would welcome the devil . 
the devil himself if the devil came to him in a canoe . 
Unless I am much mistaken , '' he added , under his breath . 
He noticed with satisfaction that Joanna seemed to have got some inkling of his meaning . 
He continued , speaking slowly Look here , Mrs. Willems . 
But I will tell you what I will do . 
There will come here in about ten minutes a Bugis man you know the language you are from Macassar . 
He has a large canoe he can take you there . 
To the new Rajah's clearing , tell him . 
They are three brothers , ready for anything if you pay them . 
Almayer swore to himself with much mental profanity that he had never seen a more useless , a more stupid being . 
D'ye hear me ? he said , raising his voice . 
Have you any money ? Money . 
Almayer gripped the edge of the table with all his strength . 
He resisted manfully an almost uncontrollable impulse to fly at her and box her ears . 
It was sold for money , I suppose , he said with studied and incisive calmness . 
She whispered resignedly Leonard had some . 
He wanted to get married . 
And uncle Antonio he sat at the door and would not go away . 
And Aghostina she is so poor . 
and so many , many children little children . 
He never said a word against my husband . 
She came and shouted , and my head was so bad , and my heart was worse . 
Then cousin Salvator and old Daniel da Souza , who . 
Almayer had listened to her speechless with rage . 
He thought I must give money now to that idiot . 
Must ! Must get her out of the way now before Lingard is back . 
He spoke with great friendliness That will do . 
It isn't much , but it will do . 
Now when the man comes I will be out of the way . 
Give him some money only a little , mind ! And promise more . 
Then when you get there you will be guided by your husband , of course . 
And don't forget to tell him that Captain Lingard is at the mouth of the river the northern entrance . 
Won't you ? The northern branch . 
Almayer went on rapidly I would have given you money if you had wanted it . 
'Pon my word ! Tell your husband I've sent you to him . 
And tell him not to lose any time . 
And also say to him from me that we shall meet some day . 
That I could not die happy unless I met him once more . 
I love him , you know . 
Tremendous risk to me this business is ! Joanna snatched his hand and before he knew what she would be at , pressed it to her lips . 
cried the abashed Almayer , tearing his hand away . 
Oh , you are good ! she cried , with sudden exaltation , You are noble . 
I shall pray every day . 
never mind ! stammered out Almayer , confusedly , without knowing very well what he was saying . 
Only look out for Lingard . 
I am happy to be able . 
Almayer looked at her , mistrustful , hopeful . 
He was saying to himself How frail she is ! I could upset her by blowing at her . 
Did I not tell you I was coming back ? You . 
I am off , Mrs. Willems , exclaimed Almayer . 
That man is here with my servant . 
He heard the footsteps of the two men in the passage , and without finishing his sentence ran rapidly down the steps towards the riverside . 
He did not fall into the river ? say , thou blind watcher ! Ali was growling in a bullying tone , to the other man . 
He told me to fetch Mahmat , and when I came back swiftly I found him not in the house . 
There is that Sirani woman there , so that Mahmat cannot steal anything , but it is in my mind , the night will be half gone before I rest . 
He shouted Master ! O master ! O mast . 
What are you making that noise for ? said Almayer , with severity , stepping out close to them . 
The two Malays leaped away from each other in their surprise . 
I don't want you any more tonight , Ali , went on Almayer . 
Is Mahmat there ? Unless the ill behaved savage got tired of waiting . 
Those men know not politeness . 
They should not be spoken to by white men , said Ali , resentfully . 
Almayer went towards the house , leaving his servants to wonder where he had sprung from so unexpectedly . 
The watchman hinted obscurely at powers of invisibility possessed by the master , who often at night . 
Ali interrupted him with great scorn . 
Not every white man has the power . 
Now , the Rajah Laut could make himself invisible . 
Mahmat seemed to be caught in the very act of slinking away , and Almayer noticed that with satisfaction . 
Seeing the white man , the Malay gave up his attempt and leaned against the wall . 
His eyes were big , prominent , dreamy and restless . 
He said sulkily , looking all over the place from under his eyebrows White Tuan , you are great and strong and I a poor man . 
Tell me what is your will , and let me go in the name of God . 
Almayer examined the man thoughtfully . 
How could he find out whether . 
He would test him now in that way . 
He said negligently I want you to start at once for the camp , with surat for the Kavitan . 
The man appeared plunged in dull hesitation , but Almayer , who knew his Malays , felt pretty sure from his aspect that nothing would induce the fellow to go . 
He urged It is important and if you are swift I shall give two dollars for the last day . 
We do not go , said the man , in a hoarse whisper . 
Why ? We start on another journey . 
Where ? To a place we know of , said Mahmat , a little louder , in a stubborn manner , and looking at the floor . 
Almayer experienced a feeling of immense joy . 
He said , with affected annoyance You men live in my house and it is as if it were your own . 
I may want my house soon . 
We are men of the sea and care not for a roof when we have a canoe that will hold three , and a paddle apiece . 
The sea is our house . 
Peace be with you , Tuan . 
He turned and went away rapidly , and Almayer heard him directly afterwards in the courtyard calling to the watchman to open the gate . 
And he began to call his brothers before he was inside the dilapidated dwelling . 
All's well ! muttered Almayer to himself , taking some loose Java tobacco from a drawer in the table . 
Now if anything comes out I am clear . 
I asked the man to go up the river . 
He will say so himself . 
I will give her a good start , then go in chase and send an express boat after father . 
He approached the door of the office and said , holding his pipe away from his lips Good luck to you , Mrs. Willems . 
You may get along by the bushes the fence there is out of repair . 
Don't forget that it is a matter of . 
And don't forget that I know nothing . 
He heard inside a noise as of a chest lid falling down . 
She made a few steps . 
Then a sigh , profound and long , and some faint words which he did not catch . 
There was a big room . 
On the floor a small binnacle lamp that had found its way to the house years ago from the lumber room of the Flash did duty for a night light . 
It glimmered very small and dull in the great darkness . 
Almayer walked to it , and picking it up revived the flame by pulling the wick with his fingers , which he shook directly after with a grimace of pain . 
Sleeping shapes , covered head and all with white sheets , lay about on the mats on the floor . 
She sat up without a word , leaning forward , and , clasping her knees , stared down with sad eyes , full of sleep . 
On his face , lit up indistinctly by the short yellow flame of the lamp , came a look of rapt attention while he looked into her future . 
He would do it ! He would do it . 
Ali remonstrated , agitated also , having caught the infection of distracted haste . 
If must go quick , better canoe . 
Whale boat no can catch , same as small canoe . 
No , no ! Whale boat ! whale boat ! You dolt ! you wretch ! howled Almayer , with all the appearance of having gone mad . 
Call the men ! Get along with it . 
It was hard work to put them in motion . 
They wanted time to stretch themselves and to shiver a little . 
One said he was sick . 
Nobody knew where the rudder was . 
Almayer saw the boat go off at last , pulled anyhow by men that were cold , hungry , and sulky and he remained on the jetty watching it down the reach . 
It was broad day then , and the sky was perfectly cloudless . 
Almayer went up to the house for a moment . 
His household was all astir and wondering at the strange disappearance of the Sirani woman , who had taken her child and had left her luggage . 
Almayer spoke to no one , got his revolver , and went down to the river again . 
He jumped into a small canoe and paddled himself towards the schooner . 
He worked very leisurely , but as soon as he was nearly alongside he began to hail the silent craft with the tone and appearance of a man in a tremendous hurry . 
Schooner ahoy ! schooner ahoy ! he shouted . 
A row of blank faces popped up above the bulwark . 
In less than a minute the mate put his head over . 
He asked , surprised What can I do for you , Mr. Almayer ? Let me have the gig at once , Mr. Swan at once . 
I ask in Captain Lingard's name . 
Matter of life and death . 
The mate was impressed by Almayer's agitation You shall have it , sir . 
Man the gig there ! Bear a hand , serang ! . 
It's hanging astern , Mr. Almayer , he said , looking down again . 
Get into it , sir . 
The men are coming down by the painter . 
By the time Almayer had clambered over into the stern sheets , four calashes were in the boat and the oars were being passed over the taffrail . 
The mate was looking on . 
Suddenly he said Is it dangerous work ? Do you want any help ? I would come . 
Yes , yes ! cried Almayer . 
Go and get your revolver . 
Then he seemed to wake up , and called out Let go let go the painter ! Let go the painter the painter ! yelled the bowman , jerking at it . 
The mate sat by his side , pushing the cartridges into the chambers of his revolver . 
When the weapon was loaded he asked What is it ? Are you after somebody ? Yes , said Almayer , curtly , with his eyes fixed ahead on the river . 
We must catch a dangerous man . 
I like a bit of a chase myself , declared the mate , and then , discouraged by Almayer's aspect of severe thoughtfulness , said nothing more . 
The mate observed The tide is with us . 
The current always runs down in this river , said Almayer . 
Yes I know , retorted the other but it runs faster on the ebb . 
Look by the land at the way we get over the ground ! A five knot current here , I should say . 
Then suddenly There is a passage between two islands that will save us four miles . 
But at low water the two islands , in the dry season , are like one with only a mud ditch between them . 
Still , it's worth trying . 
Ticklish job that , on a falling tide , said the mate , coolly . 
You know best whether there's time to get through . 
I will try , said Almayer , watching the shore intently . 
Look out now ! He tugged hard at the starboard yoke line . 
Lay in your oars ! shouted the mate . 
The boat swept round and shot through the narrow opening of a creek that broadened out before the craft had time to lose its way . 
Just room enough , muttered the mate . 
The creepers climbed up the trunks of serried trees that leaned over , looking insecure and undermined by floods which had eaten away the earth from under their roots . 
Several times the blades of the oars got foul of the bushes on one side or the other , checking the way of the gig . 
During one of those occurrences , while they were getting clear , one of the calashes said something to the others in a rapid whisper . 
They looked down at the water . 
Eh , Mr. Almayer ! Look ! The water is running out . 
See there ! We will be caught . 
Back ! back ! We must go back ! cried Almayer . 
No back ! back ! He pulled at the steering line , and ran the nose of the boat into the bank . 
Time was lost again in getting clear . 
Give way , men ! give way ! urged the mate , anxiously . 
The men pulled with set lips and dilated nostrils , breathing hard . 
Too late , said the mate , suddenly . 
The oars touch the bottom already . 
The men laid in the oars , and sat , panting , with crossed arms . 
Yes , we are caught , said Almayer , composedly . 
That is unlucky ! The water was falling round the boat . 
The mate watched the patches of mud coming to the surface . 
Then in a moment he laughed , and pointing his finger at the creek Look ! he said the blamed river is running away from us . 
Here's the last drop of water clearing out round that bend . 
We are in for it till the evening , he said , with cheerful resignation . 
We must sleep the day away , said the mate . 
There's nothing to eat , he added , gloomily . 
Almayer stretched himself in the stern sheets . 
The Malays curled down between thwarts . 
Well , I'm jiggered ! said the mate , starting up after a long pause . 
I was in a devil of a hurry to go and pass the day stuck in the mud . 
Here's a holiday for you ! Well ! well ! They slept or sat unmoving and patient . 
As the sun mounted higher the breeze died out , and perfect stillness reigned in the empty creek . 
A little bird with sapphire breast balanced a slender twig across a slanting beam of light , and flashed in it to and fro like a gem dropped from the sky . 
His minute round eye stared at the strange and tranquil creatures in the boat . 
After a while he sent out a thin twitter that sounded impertinent and funny in the solemn silence of the great wilderness in the great silence full of struggle and death . 
The bitter peace of the abandoned clearings entered his heart , in which nothing could live now but the memory and hate of his past . 
They passed unnoticed , unseen , in the rapid blaze of glaring sunrises , in the short glow of tender sunsets , in the crushing oppression of high noons without a cloud . 
How many days ? Two three or more ? He did not know . 
To him , since Lingard had gone , the time seemed to roll on in profound darkness . 
All was night within him . 
All was gone from his sight . 
The breath of the storm had cast two of them there , robbed of everything even of resignation . 
To the river Willems turned his eyes like a captive that looks fixedly at the door of his cell . 
If there was any hope in the world it would come from the river , by the river . 
He looked at the brown and sparkling solitude of the flowing water , of the water flowing ceaseless and free in a soft , cool murmur of ripples at his feet . 
The world seemed to end there . 
The forests of the other bank appeared unattainable , enigmatical , for ever beyond reach like the stars of heaven and as indifferent . 
He was alone , small , crushed . 
He thought of escape of something to be done . 
There were ships there ships , help , white men . 
be happy , free , become rich . 
O God ! What was wanted ? Cut down a few trees . 
No ! One would do . 
They used to make canoes by burning out a tree trunk , he had heard . 
Yes ! One would do . 
One tree to cut down . 
He rushed forward , and suddenly stood still as if rooted in the ground . 
He had a pocket knife . 
And he would throw himself down on the ground by the riverside . 
He was tired , exhausted as if that raft had been made , the voyage accomplished , the fortune attained . 
He could swim out and drift away on one of these trees . 
Anything to escape ! Anything ! Any risk ! He could fasten himself up between the dead branches . 
He was torn by desire , by fear his heart was wrung by the faltering of his courage . 
He turned over , face downwards , his head on his arms . 
And the river led to it . 
He sat up with a profound groan . 
Why should he die ? No ! Better solitude , better hopeless waiting , alone . 
He could see and think of nothing else . 
He saw it the sure death everywhere . 
He saw it so close that he was always on the point of throwing out his arms to keep it off . 
And yet the world was full of life . 
Round him , ceaselessly , there went on without a sound the mad turmoil of tropical life . 
All this would remain remain for years , for ages , for ever . 
After he had miserably died there , all this would remain , would live , would exist in joyous sunlight , would breathe in the coolness of serene nights . 
What for , then ? He would be dead . 
There would be that only left of him nobody would miss him no one would remember him . 
Nonsense ! It could not be . 
There were ways out of this . 
Some human beings would come . 
He would speak , entreat use force to extort help from them . 
He felt strong he was very strong . 
The discouragement , the conviction of the futility of his hopes would return in an acute sensation of pain in his heart . 
He would begin again his aimless wanderings . 
He tramped till he was ready to drop , without being able to calm by bodily fatigue the trouble of his soul . 
There was no rest , no peace within the cleared grounds of his prison . 
There was no relief but in the black release of sleep , of sleep without memory and without dreams in the sleep coming brutal and heavy , like the lead that kills . 
He lived , he struggled with the inarticulate delirium of his thoughts under the eyes of the silent Aissa . 
From the short contact with the whites in the crashing collapse of her old life , there remained with her the imposing idea of irresistible power and of ruthless strength . 
She had found a man of their race and with all their qualities . 
But this man's heart was full of anger against his own people , full of anger existing there by the side of his desire of her . 
And to her it had been an intoxication of hope for great things born in the proud and tender consciousness of her influence . 
She did not know , and could not conceive , anything of his so exalted ideals . 
She thought the man a warrior and a chief , ready for battle , violence , and treachery to his own people for her . 
She , a woman , was the victim of her heart , of her woman's belief that there is nothing in the world but love the everlasting thing . 
He was the victim of his strange principles , of his continence , of his blind belief in himself , of his solemn veneration for the voice of his boundless ignorance . 
He dared not look at her , because now whenever he looked at her his thought seemed to touch crime , like an outstretched hand . 
She could only look at him and at nothing else . 
What else was there ? She followed him with a timorous gaze , with a gaze for ever expecting , patient , and entreating . 
For the first three days after Lingard went away he would not even speak to her . 
She preferred his silence to the sound of hated and incomprehensible words he had been lately addressing to her with a wild violence of manner , passing at once into complete apathy . 
And during these three days he hardly ever left the river , as if on that muddy bank he had felt himself nearer to his freedom . 
It seemed to him ominous and ghastly with a foreboding of violent death that beckoned him from everywhere even from the sky . 
A slight shiver recalled him to his senses , and he walked up the courtyard towards his house . 
Aissa rose from before the fire , that glimmered red through its own smoke , which hung thickening under the boughs of the big tree . 
She approached him from the side as he neared the plankway of the house . 
He saw her stop to let him begin his ascent . 
In the darkness her figure was like the shadow of a woman with clasped hands put out beseechingly . 
He stopped could not help glancing at her . 
In all the sombre gracefulness of the straight figure , her limbs , features all was indistinct and vague but the gleam of her eyes in the faint starlight . 
He turned his head away and moved on . 
He could feel her footsteps behind him on the bending planks , but he walked up without turning his head . 
He knew what she wanted . 
She wanted to come in there . 
He shuddered at the thought of what might happen in the impenetrable darkness of that house if they were to find themselves alone even for a moment . 
He stopped in the doorway , and heard her say Let me come in . 
Why this anger ? Why this silence ? . 
Have I not watched faithfully ? Did harm ever come to you when you closed your eyes while I was by ? . 
I have waited for your smile , for your words . 
I can wait no more . 
Is there a bad spirit in you ? A bad spirit that has eaten up your courage and your love ? Let me touch you . 
Forget the wicked hearts , the angry faces . 
and remember only the day I came to you . 
All around them the forests , the clearings , the river , covered by the silent veil of night , seemed to wake up and listen to her words in attentive stillness . 
Willems turned round slowly , reluctantly , as if compelled by main force . 
Her face was hidden in her hands , and he looked above her bent head , into the sombre brilliance of the night . 
The air was full of sweet scent , of the scent charming , penetrating . 
and violent like the impulse of love . 
He could shout for help on every side and nobody would answer . 
He could stretch out his hands , he could call for aid , for support , for sympathy , for relief and nobody would come . 
There was no one there but that woman . 
His heart was moved , softened with pity at his own abandonment . 
His anger against her , against her who was the cause of all his misfortunes , vanished before his extreme need for some kind of consolation . 
Perhaps if he must resign himself to his fate she might help him to forget . 
He said to himself that he would not repent . 
The punishment for his only sin was too heavy . 
There was no mercy under Heaven . 
He did not want any . 
He took her suddenly in his arms , and she clasped her hands round his neck with a low cry of joy and surprise . 
She clung to him trembling with the intensity of her happiness and her love . 
He heard her whispering her face hidden on his shoulder of past sorrow , of coming joy that would last for ever of her unshaken belief in his love . 
Always ! Even while his face was turned away from her in the dark days while his mind was wandering in his own land , amongst his own people . 
But it would never wander away from her any more , now it had come back . 
He would forget the cold faces and the hard hearts of the cruel people . 
What was there to remember ? Nothing ? Was it not so ? . 
He listened hopelessly to the faint murmur . 
He stood still and rigid , pressing her mechanically to his breast while he thought that there was nothing for him in the world . 
He was robbed of everything robbed of his passion , of his liberty , of forgetfulness , of consolation . 
She , wild with delight , whispered on rapidly , of love , of light , of peace , of long years . 
He looked drearily above her head down into the deeper gloom of the courtyard . 
In the morning he came out early , and stood for a time in the doorway , listening to the light breathing behind him in the house . 
He had not closed his eyes through all that night . 
He stood swaying then leaned against the lintel of the door . 
He was exhausted , done up fancied himself hardly alive . 
He had a disgusted horror of himself that , as he looked at the level sea of mist at his feet , faded quickly into dull indifference . 
It was like a sudden and final decrepitude of his senses , of his body , of his thoughts . 
Upon the faintly luminous background of the eastern sky , the sombre line of the great forests bounded that smooth sea of white vapours with an appearance of a fantastic and unattainable shore . 
He looked without seeing anything thinking of himself . 
Before his eyes the light of the rising sun burst above the forest with the suddenness of an explosion . 
Then , after a time , he murmured with conviction speaking half aloud to himself in the shock of the penetrating thought I am a lost man . 
CHAPTER FOUR Willems moved languidly towards the river , then retraced his steps to the tree and let himself fall on the seat under its shade . 
On the other side of the immense trunk he could hear the old woman moving about , sighing loudly , muttering to herself , snapping dry sticks , blowing up the fire . 
After a while a whiff of smoke drifted round to where he sat . 
It made him feel hungry , and that feeling was like a new indignity added to an intolerable load of humiliations . 
He felt inclined to cry . 
He held up his arm before his eyes and watched for a little while the trembling of the lean limb . 
Skin and bone , by God ! How thin he was ! . 
Did the old savage think that he was like the wild beasts that are never ill ? He wanted quinine . 
He leaned the back of his head against the tree and closed his eyes . 
He thought feebly that if he could get hold of Lingard he would like to flay him alive but it was only a blurred , a short and a passing thought . 
His imagination , exhausted by the repeated delineations of his own fate , had not enough strength left to grip the idea of revenge . 
He was not indignant and rebellious . 
He was cowed by the immense cataclysm of his disaster . 
He blinked his eyes quickly , and it seemed to him that the very sunshine of the morning disclosed in its brightness a suggestion of some hidden and sinister meaning . 
In his unreasoning fear he tried to hide within himself . 
He drew his feet up , his head sank between his shoulders , his arms hugged his sides . 
Suddenly he thought There must be something dead in there . 
Death everywhere ! He closed his eyes again in an access of trembling pain . 
Death everywhere wherever one looks . 
He did not want to see the ants . 
He did not want to see anybody or anything . 
He sat in the darkness of his own making , reflecting bitterly that there was no peace for him . 
Illusion ! Misery ! Torment ! Who would come ? Who would speak to him ? What business had he to hear voices ? . 
yet he heard them faintly , from the river . 
Faintly , as if shouted far off over there , came the words We come back soon . 
Delirium and mockery ! Who would come back ? Nobody ever comes back ! Fever comes back . 
He had it on him this morning . 
He heard unexpectedly the old woman muttering something near by . 
She had come round to his side of the tree . 
He opened his eyes and saw her bent back before him . 
She stood , with her hand shading her eyes , looking towards the landing place . 
She had seen and now she was going back to her cooking a woman incurious expecting nothing without fear and without hope . 
She had gone back behind the tree , and now Willems could see a human figure on the path to the landing place . 
It appeared to him to be a woman , in a red gown , holding some heavy bundle in her arms it was an apparition unexpected , familiar and odd . 
He cursed through his teeth . 
It had wanted only this ! See things like that in broad daylight ! He was very bad very bad . 
He was horribly scared at this awful symptom of the desperate state of his health . 
He was so amazed that for a time he absolutely forgot his own existence . 
The only idea in his head was Why on earth did she come here ? Joanna was coming up the courtyard with eager , hurried steps . 
She carried in her arms the child , wrapped up in one of Almayer's white blankets that she had snatched off the bed at the last moment , before leaving the house . 
She seemed to be dazed by the sun in her eyes bewildered by her strange surroundings . 
She moved on , looking quickly right and left in impatient expectation of seeing her husband at any moment . 
They stared at one another in profound stillness , with astounded eyes , with eyes maddened by the memories of things far off that seemed lost in the lapse of time . 
Their looks crossed , passed each other , and appeared to dart at them through fantastic distances , to come straight from the incredible . 
Looking at him steadily she came nearer , and deposited the blanket with the child in it on the bench . 
Little Louis , after howling with terror in the darkness of the river most of the night , now slept soundly and did not wake . 
Willems' eyes followed his wife , his head turning slowly after her . 
He accepted her presence there with a tired acquiescence in its fabulous improbability . 
What did she come for ? She was part of the general scheme of his misfortune . 
He half expected that she would rush at him , pull his hair , and scratch his face . 
Why not ? Anything might happen ! In an exaggerated sense of his great bodily weakness he felt somewhat apprehensive of possible assault . 
At any rate , she would scream at him . 
He knew her of old . 
He had thought that he was rid of her for ever . 
She came now probably to see the end . 
Suddenly she turned , and embracing him slid gently to the ground . 
With her forehead on his knees she sobbed noiselessly . 
He looked down dismally at the top of her head . 
What was she up to ? He had not the strength to move to get away . 
He heard her whispering something , and bent over to listen . 
He caught the word Forgive . 
That was what she came for ! All that way . 
All at once this thought darted through his brain How did she come ? In a boat . 
Boat ! boat ! He shouted Boat ! and jumped up , knocking her over . 
Before she had time to pick herself up he pounced upon her and was dragging her up by the shoulders . 
No sooner had she regained her feet than she clasped him tightly round the neck , covering his face , his eyes , his mouth , his nose with desperate kisses . 
He dodged his head about , shaking her arms , trying to keep her off , to speak , to ask her . 
She came in a boat , boat , boat ! . 
They struggled and swung round , tramping in a semicircle . 
He blurted out , Leave off . 
Listen , while he tore at her hands . 
This meeting of lawful love and sincere joy resembled fight . 
Louis Willems slept peacefully under his blanket . 
At last Willems managed to free himself , and held her off , pressing her arms down . 
He had half a suspicion that he was dreaming . 
Her lips trembled her eyes wandered unsteadily , always coming back to his face . 
He saw her the same as ever , in his presence . 
She appeared startled , tremulous , ready to cry . 
She did not inspire him with confidence . 
He shouted How did you come ? She answered in hurried words , looking at him intently In a big canoe with three men . 
I come to save you . 
Told you You ! stammered Willems in a distracted manner . 
Why you ? Told what ? Words failed him . 
He stared at his wife , thinking with fear that she stupid woman had been made a tool in some plan of treachery . 
She began to cry Don't look at me like that , Peter . 
What have I done ? I come to beg to beg forgiveness . 
He trembled with impatience , with hope , with fear . 
She looked at him and sobbed out in a fresh outburst of grief Oh ! Peter . 
What's the matter ? Are you ill ? . 
Oh ! you look so ill . 
He shook her violently into a terrified and wondering silence . 
How dare you ! I am well perfectly well . 
Where's that boat ? Will you tell me where that boat is at last ? The boat , I say . 
You hurt me , she moaned . 
He let her go , and , mastering her terror , she stood quivering and looking at him with strange intensity . 
Then she made a movement forward , but he lifted his finger , and she restrained herself with a long sigh . 
He calmed down suddenly and surveyed her with cold criticism , with the same appearance as when , in the old days , he used to find fault with the household expenses . 
She found a kind of fearful delight in this abrupt return into the past , into her old subjection . 
He stood outwardly collected now , and listened to her disconnected story . 
Her words seemed to fall round him with the distracting clatter of stunning hail . 
He caught the meaning here and there , and straightway would lose himself in a tremendous effort to shape out some intelligible theory of events . 
A big boat that could take him to sea if necessary . 
Why did Almayer lie to her so ? Was it a plan to decoy him into some ambush ? Better that than hopeless solitude . 
The men were ready to go anywhere . 
He interrupted her Where are they now ? They are coming directly , she answered , tearfully . 
There are some fishing stakes near here they said . 
Again she was talking and sobbing together . 
She wanted to be forgiven . 
Forgiven ? What for ? Ah ! the scene in Macassar . 
into the great possibility of a startling revenge . 
He felt a sudden desire to dance and shout . 
He shouted After all , we shall meet again , Captain Lingard . 
Oh , no ! No ! she cried , joining her hands . 
He looked at her with surprise . 
He had forgotten she was there till the break of her cry in the monotonous tones of her prayer recalled him into that courtyard from the glorious turmoil of his dreams . 
It was very strange to see her there near him . 
He felt almost affectionate towards her . 
After all , she came just in time . 
Then he thought That other one . 
I must get away without a scene . 
Who knows she may be dangerous ! . 
And all at once he felt he hated Aissa with an immense hatred that seemed to choke him . 
He said to his wife Wait a moment . 
She , obedient , seemed to gulp down some words which wanted to come out . 
He muttered Stay here , and disappeared round the tree . 
The water in the iron pan on the cooking fire boiled furiously , belching out volumes of white steam that mixed with the thin black thread of smoke . 
The old woman appeared to him through this as if in a fog , squatting on her heels , impassive and weird . 
While you were asleep under the tree , before the strange canoe came , she went out of the house . 
I saw her look at you and pass on with a great light in her eyes . 
And she went towards the place where our master Lakamba had his fruit trees . 
When we were many here . 
Men with arms by their side . 
She went on like that , raving gently to herself for a long time after Willems had left her . 
Willems went back to his wife . 
He came up close to her and found he had nothing to say . 
Now all his faculties were concentrated upon his wish to avoid Aissa . 
She might stay all the morning in that grove . 
Why did those rascally boatmen go ? He had a physical repugnance to set eyes on her . 
And somewhere , at the very bottom of his heart , there was a fear of her . 
Why ? What could she do ? Nothing on earth could stop him now . 
He felt strong , reckless , pitiless , and superior to everything . 
He wanted to preserve before his wife the lofty purity of his character . 
He thought She does not know . 
Almayer held his tongue about Aissa . 
But if she finds out , I am lost . 
If it hadn't been for the boy I would . 
free of both of them . 
The idea darted through his head . 
Looking on his wife , he felt for the first time in his life something approaching remorse . 
Remorse , arising from his conception of the awful nature of an oath before the altar . 
Oh , for that boat ! He must run in and get his revolver . 
Couldn't think of trusting himself unarmed with those Bajow fellows . 
Get it now while she is away . 
Oh , for that boat ! . 
He dared not go to the river and hail . 
He thought She might hear me . 
then will be all ready . 
And she pleaded humbly abashed before him , before the unmoved appearance of the man she had wronged in defiance of human and divine laws . 
He heard not a word of what she said till she raised her voice in a final appeal . 
Don't you see I loved you always ? They told me horrible things about you . 
My own mother ! They told me you have been you have been unfaithful to me , and I . 
It's a damned lie ! shouted Willems , waking up for a moment into righteous indignation . 
I know ! I know Be generous . 
Think of my misery since you went away Oh ! I could have torn my tongue out . 
I will never believe anybody Look at the boy Be merciful I could never rest till I found you . 
Say a word one word . 
What the devil do you want ? exclaimed Willems , looking towards the river . 
Tell me do you ? Yes ! yes ! said Willems , impatiently . 
Don't leave me alone here . 
Where is the danger ? I am so frightened . 
Are you alone here ? Sure ? . 
Let us go away ! That's sense , said Willems , still looking anxiously towards the river . 
She sobbed gently , leaning on his arm . 
Let me go , he said . 
He had seen above the steep bank the heads of three men glide along smoothly . 
Then , where the shore shelved down to the landing place , appeared a big canoe which came slowly to land . 
Here they are , he went on , briskly . 
I must get my revolver . 
He made a few hurried paces towards the house , but seemed to catch sight of something , turned short round and came back to his wife . 
She stared at him , alarmed by the sudden change in his face . 
He stammered a little as he began to speak . 
Walk down to the boat and tell them to drop it out of sight , quick , behind the bushes . 
Do you hear ? Quick ! I will come to you there directly . 
Hurry up ! Peter ! What is it ? I won't leave you . 
There is some danger in this horrible place . 
Will you do what I tell you ? said Willems , in an irritable whisper . 
No ! no ! no ! I won't leave you . 
I will not lose you again . 
Tell me , what is it ? From beyond the house came a faint voice singing . 
Willems shook his wife by the shoulder . 
Do what I tell you ! Run at once ! She gripped his arm and clung to him desperately . 
He looked up to heaven as if taking it to witness of that woman's infernal folly . 
The song grew louder , then ceased suddenly , and Aissa appeared in sight , walking slowly , her hands full of flowers . 
She had dressed herself for a festive day , for the memorable day of his return to her , of his return to an affection that would last for ever . 
The rays of the morning sun were caught by the oval clasp of the embroidered belt that held the silk sarong round her waist . 
And she moved slowly , bending her face over the mass of pure white champakas and jasmine pressed to her breast , in a dreamy intoxication of sweet scents and of sweeter hopes . 
Willems pushed his wife roughly behind the tree , and made up his mind quickly for a rush to the house , to grab his revolver and . 
Thoughts , doubts , expedients seemed to boil in his brain . 
Although taken by surprise , he managed to keep his feet . 
From behind she panted into his ear That woman ! Who's that woman ? Ah ! that's what those boatmen were talking about . 
They spoke about some woman . 
believe ! How could I ? Then it's true . 
Who's that woman ? He swayed , tugging forward . 
She jerked at him till the button gave way , and then he slipped half out of his jacket and , turning round , remained strangely motionless . 
His heart seemed to beat in his throat . 
He choked tried to speak could not find any words . 
He thought with fury I will kill both of them . 
For a second nothing moved about the courtyard in the great vivid clearness of the day . 
Suddenly the variegated flock rose spinning in a soft whirr and dispersed , slashing the sunlit haze with the sharp outlines of stiffened wings . 
Mahmat and one of his brothers appeared coming up from the landing place , their lances in their hands , to look for their passengers . 
Aissa coming now empty handed out of the house , caught sight of the two armed men . 
In her surprise she emitted a faint cry , vanished back and in a flash reappeared in the doorway with Willems' revolver in her hand . 
To her the presence of any man there could only have an ominous meaning . 
There was nothing in the outer world but enemies . 
She and the man she loved were alone , with nothing round them but menacing dangers . 
She did not mind that , for if death came , no matter from what hand , they would die together . 
Her resolute eyes took in the courtyard in a circular glance . 
She noticed that the two strangers had ceased to advance and now were standing close together leaning on the polished shafts of their weapons . 
The next moment she saw Willems , with his back towards her , apparently struggling under the tree with some one . 
She fell on it he jerked himself altogether out of his jacket , and she covered her face with the soiled rags . 
He put his lips close to her , asking For the last time , will you take the child and go ? She groaned behind the unclean ruins of his upper garment . 
He bent lower to hear . 
She was saying I won't . 
I can't look at her ! You fool ! He seemed to spit the words at her , then , making up his mind , spun round to face Aissa . 
She was coming towards them slowly now , with a look of unbounded amazement on her face . 
Then she stopped and stared at him who stood there , stripped to the waist , bare headed and sombre . 
Some way off , Mahmat and his brother exchanged rapid words in calm undertones . 
This was the strong daughter of the holy man who had died . 
The white man is very tall . 
There would be three women and the child to take in the boat , besides that white man who had the money . 
The brother went away back to the boat , and Mahmat remained looking on . 
He stood like a sentinel , the leaf shaped blade of his lance glinting above his head . 
Give me this , he said , stretching his hand towards the revolver . 
She said very low Your people ? He nodded slightly . 
She shook her head thoughtfully , and a few delicate petals of the flowers dying in her hair fell like big drops of crimson and white at her feet . 
Did you know ? she whispered . 
What is there between them and you and you who carry my life in your heart ! Willems said nothing . 
He stood before her looking down on the ground and repeating to himself I must get that revolver away from her , at once , at once . 
I can't think of trusting myself with those men without firearms . 
She asked , after gazing in silence at Joanna , who was sobbing gently Who is she ? My wife , answered Willems , without looking up . 
My wife according to our white law , which comes from God ! Your law ! Your God ! murmured Aissa , contemptuously . 
Give me this revolver , said Willems , in a peremptory tone . 
He felt an unwillingness to close with her , to get it by force . 
She took no notice and went on Your law . 
or your lies ? What am I to believe ? I came I ran to defend you when I saw the strange men . 
You lied to me with your lips , with your eyes . 
Ah ! she added , after an abrupt pause . 
She is the first ! Am I then to be a slave ? You may be what you like , said Willems , brutally . 
Her gaze was fastened on the blanket under which she had detected a slight movement . 
She made a long stride towards it . 
His legs seemed to him to be made of lead . 
She lifted up one corner of the blanket , and when she saw the sleeping child a sudden quick shudder shook her as though she had seen something inexpressibly horrible . 
She looked at Louis Willems with eyes fixed in an unbelieving and terrified stare . 
Then her fingers opened slowly , and a shadow seemed to settle on her face as if something obscure and fatal had come between her and the sunshine . 
She stood looking down , absorbed , as though she had watched at the bottom of a gloomy abyss the mournful procession of her thoughts . 
All his faculties were concentrated upon the idea of his release . 
He had forgotten Aissa , his wife , Lingard , Hudig everybody , in the rapid vision of his hopeful future . 
I thought that I would . 
Her voice ceased in a broken murmur , and with it , in her heart , seemed to die the greater and most precious hope of her new life . 
She strode nearer to Joanna . 
She felt towards that woman anger , envy , jealousy . 
Before her she felt humiliated and enraged . 
She stood in sudden stillness , looking at Joanna with surprised contempt . 
A Sirani woman ! she said , slowly , in a tone of wonder . 
Joanna rushed at Willems clung to him , shrieking Defend me , Peter ! Defend me from that woman ! Be quiet . 
There is no danger , muttered Willems , thickly . 
Aissa looked at them with scorn . 
God is great ! I sit in the dust at your feet , she exclaimed jeeringly , joining her hands above her head in a gesture of mock humility . 
Before you I am as nothing . 
She turned to Willems fiercely , opening her arms wide . 
What have you made of me ? she cried , you lying child of an accursed mother ! What have you made of me ? The slave of a slave . 
Don't speak ! Your words are worse than the poison of snakes . 
A woman of a people despised by all . 
She pointed her finger at Joanna , stepped back , and began to laugh . 
Make her stop , Peter ! screamed Joanna . 
Heathen ! Heathen ! Beat her , Peter . 
Willems caught sight of the revolver which Aissa had laid on the seat near the child . 
He spoke in Dutch to his wife , without moving his head . 
Snatch the boy and my revolver there . 
I will keep her back . 
She stared at Joanna , while between the short gusts of broken laughter she raved , fumbling distractedly at the buckle of her belt . 
To her ! To her the mother of him who will speak of your wisdom , of your courage . 
She tore the belt off and threw it at Joanna's feet . 
Drive her off , Peter . 
Drive off the heathen savage , persisted Joanna . 
She seemed to have lost her head altogether . 
She stamped , clinging to Willems' arm with both her hands . 
Look at the mother of your son ! She is afraid . 
Why does she not go from before my face ? Look at her . 
Joanna seemed to understand the scornful tone of the words . 
Willems made for the revolver . 
Aissa passed swiftly , giving him an unexpected push that sent him staggering away from the tree . 
She caught up the weapon , put it behind her back , and cried You shall not have it . 
Go with empty hands and sweet words . 
as you came to me . 
Go helpless and lie to the forests , to the sea . 
to the death that waits for you . 
She ceased as if strangled . 
or you die now ! Go while I remember yet . 
Willems pulled himself together for a struggle . 
He dared not go unarmed . 
He made a long stride , and saw her raise the revolver . 
He noticed that she had not cocked it , and said to himself that , even if she did fire , she would surely miss . 
Go too high it was a stiff trigger . 
He made a step nearer saw the long barrel moving unsteadily at the end of her extended arm . 
He thought This is my time . 
He bent his knees slightly , throwing his body forward , and took off with a long bound for a tearing rush . 
He saw a burst of red flame before his eyes , and was deafened by a report that seemed to him louder than a clap of thunder . 
Something stopped him short , and he stood aspiring in his nostrils the acrid smell of the blue smoke that drifted from before his eyes like an immense cloud . 
Missed , by Heaven ! . 
And he saw her very far off , throwing her arms up , while the revolver , very small , lay on the ground between them . 
He would go and pick it up now . 
Never before did he understand , as in that second , the joy , the triumphant delight of sunshine and of life . 
His mouth was full of something salt and warm . 
He tried to cough spat out . 
Who shrieks In the name of God , he dies ! he dies ! Who dies ? Must pick up Night ! What ? . 
Many years afterwards Almayer was telling the story of the great revolution in Sambir to a chance visitor from Europe . 
On his way to the interior he had quartered himself upon Almayer . 
Almayer , his face flushed , was saying Of course , I did not see that . 
I told you I was stuck in the creek on account of father's Captain Lingard's susceptible temper . 
I am sure I did it all for the best in trying to facilitate the fellow's escape but Captain Lingard was that kind of man you know one couldn't argue with . 
Just before sunset the water was high enough , and we got out of the creek . 
We got to Lakamba's clearing about dark . 
All very quiet I thought they were gone , of course , and felt very glad . 
We walked up the courtyard saw a big heap of something lying in the middle . 
Out of that she rose and rushed at us . 
You know those stories of faithful dogs watching their masters' corpses . 
got to beat them off and all that . 
Well , 'pon my word we had to beat her off . 
Had to ! She was like a fury . 
Wouldn't let us touch him . 
Shot through the lung , on the left side , rather high up , and at pretty close quarters too , for the two holes were small . 
Bullet came out through the shoulder blade . 
After we had overpowered her you can't imagine how strong that woman was it took three of us we got the body into the boat and shoved off . 
We thought she had fainted then , but she got up and rushed into the water after us . 
Well , I let her clamber in . 
What could I do ? The river's full of alligators . 
I will never forget that pull up stream in the night as long as I live . 
She sat in the bottom of the boat , holding his head in her lap , and now and again wiping his face with her hair . 
There was a lot of blood dried about his mouth and chin . 
And for all the six hours of that journey she kept on whispering tenderly to that corpse ! . 
I had the mate of the schooner with me . 
The man said afterwards that he wouldn't go through it again not for a handful of diamonds . 
And I believed him I did . 
Do you think he heard ? No ! I mean somebody something heard ? . 
I am a materialist , declared the man of science , tilting the bottle shakily over the emptied glass . 
Almayer shook his head and went on Nobody saw how it really happened but that man Mahmat . 
He always said that he was no further off from them than two lengths of his lance . 
It appears the two women rowed each other while that Willems stood between them . 
Then Mahmat says that when Joanna struck her and ran off , the other two seemed to become suddenly mad together . 
They rushed here and there . 
Mahmat says those were his very words 'I saw her standing holding the pistol that fires many times and pointing it all over the campong . 
I was afraid lest she might shoot me , and jumped on one side . 
Then I saw the white man coming at her swiftly . 
He came like our master the tiger when he rushes out of the jungle at the spears held by men . 
She did not take aim . 
The barrel of her weapon went like this from side to side , but in her eyes I could see suddenly a great fear . 
There was only one shot . 
She shrieked while the white man stood blinking his eyes and very straight , till you could count slowly one , two , three then he coughed and fell on his face . 
The daughter of Omar shrieked without drawing breath , till he fell . 
I went away then and left silence behind me . 
These things did not concern me , and in my boat there was that other woman who had promised me money . 
We left directly , paying no attention to her cries . 
We are only poor men and had but a small reward for our trouble ! That's what Mahmat said . 
He's the man you hired the boats from , for your journey up the river . 
The most rapacious thief I ever met ! exclaimed the traveller , thickly . 
Ah ! He is a respectable man . 
His two brothers got themselves speared served them right . 
They went in for robbing Dyak graves . 
Gold ornaments in them you know . 
But he kept respectable and got on . 
Aye ! Everybody got on but I. And all through that scoundrel who brought the Arabs here . 
num , muttered Almayer's guest . 
I wish you would speak English instead of jabbering in your own language , which no one can understand , said Almayer , sulkily . 
Don't be angry , hiccoughed the other . 
It's Latin , and it's wisdom . 
It means Don't waste your breath in abusing shadows . 
You have a quarrel with Providence so have I. I was meant to be a professor , while look . 
He sat grasping the glass . 
Almayer walked up and down , then stopped suddenly . 
Yes , they all got on but I. Why ? I am better than any of them . 
And that Babalatchi ! He is the Shahbandar of the State if you please . 
Oh Lord ! Shahbandar ! The pig ! A vagabond I wouldn't let come up these steps when he first came here . 
He lives here because he says here he is away from white men . 
But he has hundreds of thousands . 
Has a house in Penang . 
Fancy a man like Captain Lingard disappearing as though he had been a common coolie . 
Friends of mine wrote to London asking about him . 
Nobody ever heard of him there ! Fancy ! Never heard of Captain Lingard ! The learned gatherer of orchids lifted his head . 
He was a sen sentimen tal old buc buccaneer , he stammered out , I like him . 
He winked slowly at Almayer , who laughed . 
Yes ! I told you about that gravestone . 
Yes ! Another hundred and twenty dollars thrown away . 
Wish I had them now . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'Peter Willems , Delivered by the Mercy of God from his Enemy . 
What enemy unless Captain Lingard himself ? And then it has no sense . 
He was a great man father was but strange in many ways . 
You haven't seen the grave ? On the top of that hill , there , on the other side of the river . 
Not I ! said the other . 
No interest in the sun too tiring . 
Unless you carry me there . 
As a matter of fact he was carried there a few months afterwards , and his was the second white man's grave in Sambir but at present he was alive if rather drunk . 
He asked abruptly And the woman ? Oh ! Lingard , of course , kept her and her ugly brat in Macassar . 
Sinful waste of money that ! Devil only knows what became of them since father went home . 
I had my daughter to look after . 
I shall give you a word to Mrs. Vinck in Singapore when you go back . 
You shall see my Nina there . 
She is beautiful , and I hear so accomplished , so . 
I have heard already twenty . 
a hundred times about your daughter . 
What ab about that that other one , Ai ssa ? She ! Oh ! we kept her here . 
She was mad for a long time in a quiet sort of way . 
Father thought a lot of her . 
He gave her a house to live in , in my campong . 
She wandered about , speaking to nobody unless she caught sight of Abdulla , when she would have a fit of fury , and shriek and curse like anything . 
Very often she would disappear and then we all had to turn out and hunt for her , because father would worry till she was brought back . 
Found her in all kinds of places . 
Once in the abandoned campong of Lakamba . 
Sometimes simply wandering in the bush . 
She had one favourite spot we always made for at first . 
It was ten to one on finding her there a kind of a grassy glade on the banks of a small brook . 
Why she preferred that place , I can't imagine ! And such a job to get her away from there . 
Had to drag her away by main force . 
Then , as the time passed , she became quieter and more settled , like . 
Still , all my people feared her greatly . 
It was my Nina that tamed her . 
Finally she , I verily believe , came to love the child . 
Nothing could resist that little one you know . 
She made a capital nurse . 
Once when the little devil ran away from me and fell into the river off the end of the jetty , she jumped in and pulled her out in no time . 
I very nearly died of fright . 
Now of course she lives with my serving girls , but does what she likes . 
As long as I have a handful of rice or a piece of cotton in the store she sha'n't want for anything . 
She brought in the dinner with Ali . 
What ! That doubled up crone ? Ah ! said Almayer . 
And long foggy nights spent in the bush will soon break the strongest backs as you will find out yourself soon . 
disgusting , growled the traveller . 
Almayer stood by the balustrade looking out at the bluish sheen of the moonlit night . 
Almayer looked for a long time at the clean cut outline of the summit , as if trying to make out through darkness and distance the shape of that expensive tombstone . 
When he turned round at last he saw his guest sleeping , his arms on the table , his head on his arms . 
Now , look here ! he shouted , slapping the table with the palm of his hand . 
The naturalist woke up , and sat all in a heap , staring owlishly . 
Here ! went on Almayer , speaking very loud and thumping the table , I want to know . 
You , who say you have read all the books , just tell me . 
why such infernal things are ever allowed . 
Here I am ! Done harm to nobody , lived an honest life . 
I I like you like . 
He fell forward on the table , and ended his remarks by an unexpected and prolonged snore . 
Almayer shrugged his shoulders and walked back to the balustrade . 
Father was wrong wrong ! he yelled . 
I want you to smart for it . 
You must smart for it ! Where are you , Willems ? Hey ? . 
