PICTURED BY John R. Neil BOOKS OF WONDER WILLIAM MORROW COMPANY , INC . 
And now , although pleading guilty to long delay , I have kept my promise in this book . 
For the Gillikin people had reason to suspect her of indulging in magical arts , and therefore hesitated to associate with her . 
Mombi was not exactly a Witch , because the Good Witch who ruled that part of the Land of Oz Line Art Drawing had forbidden any other Witch to exist in her dominions . 
So Tip's guardian , however much she might aspire to working magic , realized it was unlawful to be more than a Sorceress , or at most a Wizardess . 
Tip was made to carry wood from the forest , that the old woman might boil her pot . 
He also worked in the corn fields , hoeing and husking and he fed the pigs and milked the four horned cow that was Mombi's especial pride . 
But you must not suppose he worked all the time , for he felt that would be bad for him . 
When sent to the forest Tip often climbed trees for birds' eggs or amused himself chasing the fleet white rabbits or fishing in the brooks with bent pins . 
Then he would hastily gather his armful of wood and carry it home . 
So , by taking care not to exhaust his strength , he grew as strong and rugged as a boy may be . 
Mombi's curious magic often frightened her neighbors , and they treated her shyly , yet respectfully , because of her weird powers . 
But Tip frankly hated her , and took no pains to hide his feelings . 
Indeed , he sometimes showed less respect for the old woman than he should have done , considering she was his guardian . 
So he selected a fine , big pumpkin one with a lustrous , orange red color and began carving it . 
With the point of his knife he made two round eyes , a three cornered nose , and Line Art Drawing a mouth shaped like a new moon . 
He decided to manufacture the form of a man , who would wear this pumpkin head , and to stand it in a place where old Mombi would meet it face to face . 
So he took his axe to the forest , and selected some stout , straight saplings , which he cut down and trimmed of all their twigs and leaves . 
From these he would make the arms , and legs , and feet of his man . 
Then , whistling happily as he worked , he carefully jointed the limbs and fastened them to the body with pegs whittled into shape with his knife . 
By the time this feat had been accomplished it began to grow dark , and Tip remembered he must milk the cow and feed the pigs . 
So he picked up his wooden man and carried it back to the house with him . 
Then he stood the figure up against the wall and admired it . 
So he went again to the forest , which was not far away , and chopped from a tree several pieces of wood with which to complete his work . 
When he returned he fastened a cross piece to the upper end of the body , making a hole through the center to hold upright the neck . 
These he carried away to his man and succeeded , although the garments did not fit very well , in dressing the creature in a jaunty fashion . 
I must give him a name ! he cried . 
So good a man as this must surely have a name . 
I believe , he added , after a moment's thought , I will name the fellow 'Jack Pumpkinhead ! Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
So he started to carry his man there , but found him heavy and rather awkward to handle . 
Jack's all right , and works fine ! he said to himself , panting with the unusual exertion . 
Tip also noticed that Jack's pumpkin head had twisted around until it faced his back but this was easily remedied . 
However , old Mombi returned earlier than usual . 
She had met a crooked wizard who resided in a lonely cave in the mountains , and had traded several important secrets of magic with him . 
Why , here is a good chance to try my new powder ! said she , eagerly . 
And then I can tell whether that crooked wizard has fairly traded secrets , or whether he has fooled me as wickedly as I fooled him . 
So she set down her basket and began fumbling in it for one of the precious powders she had obtained . 
At first he was generally disappointed but the next moment he became curious to know what Mombi was going to do . 
So he hid behind a hedge , where he could see without being seen , and prepared to watch . 
After some search the woman drew from her basket an old pepper box , upon the faded label of which the wizard had written with a lead pencil Powder of Life . 
Ah here it is ! she cried , joyfully . 
And now let us see if it is potent . 
The stingy wizard didn't give me much of it , but I guess there's enough for two or three doses . 
Tip was much surprised when he overheard this speech . 
Then he saw old Mombi raise her arm and sprinkle the powder from the box over the pumpkin head of his man Jack . 
She did this in the same way one would pepper a baked potato , and the powder sifted down from Jack's head and scattered Full page line art drawing . 
OLD MOMBI DANCED AROUND HIM over the red shirt and pink waistcoat and purple trousers Tip had dressed him in , and a portion even fell upon the patched and worn shoes . 
At first he was so frightened and horrified that he wanted to run away , but his legs trembled and shook so badly that he couldn't . 
Even Mombi was not without a curious interest in the man her magic had brought to life for , after staring at him intently , she presently asked Full page line art drawing . 
OLD MOMBI PUTS JACK IN THE STABLE What do you know ? Well , that is hard to tell , replied Jack . 
For although I feel that I know a tremendous lot , I am not yet aware how much there is in the world to find out about . 
It will take me a little time to discover whether I am very wise or very foolish . 
To be sure , said Mombi , thoughtfully . 
But what are you going to do with him , now he is alive ? asked Tip , wondering . 
I must think it over , answered Mombi . 
But we must get home at once , for it is growing dark . 
Help the Pumpkinhead to walk . 
Never mind me , said Jack I can walk as well as you can . 
Haven't I got legs and feet , and aren't they jointed ? Are they ? asked the woman , turning to Tip . 
Of course they are I made 'em myself , returned the boy , with pride . 
I've got to attend to you , first , she said , nodding her head at Tip . 
Hearing this , the boy became uneasy for he knew Mombi had a bad and revengeful heart , and would not hesitate to do any evil thing . 
It was a round , domeshaped structure , as are nearly all the farm houses in the Land of Oz . 
Mombi bade the boy light a candle , while she put her basket in a cupboard and hung her cloak on a peg . 
Tip obeyed quickly , for he was afraid of her . 
After the candle had been lighted Mombi ordered him to build a fire in the hearth , and while Tip was thus engaged the old woman ate her supper . 
When the flames began to crackle the boy came to her and asked a share of the bread and cheese but Mombi refused him . 
I'm hungry ! said Tip , in a sulky tone . 
You won't be hungry long , replied Mombi , with a grim look . 
Then she measured out equal parts of milk and vinegar and poured them into the kettle . 
Next she produced several packets of herbs and powders and began adding a portion of each to the contents of the kettle . 
Occasionally she would draw near the candle and read from a yellow paper the recipe of the mess she was concocting . 
As Tip watched her his uneasiness increased . 
What is that for ? he asked . 
For you , returned Mombi , briefly . 
Tip wriggled around upon his stool and stared awhile at the kettle , which was beginning to bubble . 
So an hour passed away , during which the silence was only broken by the bubbling of the pot and the hissing of the flames . 
Finally , Tip spoke again . 
Have I got to drink that stuff ? he asked , nodding toward the pot . 
What'll it do to me ? asked Tip . 
If it's properly made , replied Mombi , it will change or transform you into a marble statue . 
Tip groaned , and wiped the perspiration from his forehead with his sleeve . 
I don't want to be a marble statue ! he protested . 
That doesn't matter I want you to be one , said the old woman , looking at him severely . 
What use'll I be then ? asked Tip . 
There won't be any one to work for you . 
I'll make the Pumpkinhead work for me , said Mombi . 
Why don't you change me into a goat , or a chicken ? he asked , anxiously . 
You can't do anything with a marble statue . 
Oh , yes , I can , returned Mombi . 
I'm going to plant a flower garden , next Spring , and I'll put you in the middle of it , for an ornament . 
I wonder I haven't thought of that before you've been a bother to me for years . 
At this terrible speech Tip felt the beads of perspiration starting all over his body . 
but he sat still and shivered and looked anxiously at the kettle . 
Perhaps it won't work , he mutttered , in a voice that sounded weak and discouraged . 
Oh , I think it will , answered Mombi , cheerfully . 
I seldom make a mistake . 
Again there was a period of silence a silence so long and gloomy that when Mombi finally lifted the kettle from the fire it was close to midnight . 
Full page line art drawing . 
I DON'T WANT TO BE A MARBLE STATUE . 
You cannot drink it until it has become quite cold , announced the old witch for in spite of the law she had acknowledged practising witchcraft . 
We must both go to bed now , and at daybreak I will call you and at once complete your transformation into a marble statue . 
With this she hobbled into her room , bearing the steaming kettle with her , and Tip heard her close and lock the door . 
The boy did not go to bed , as he had been commanded to do , but still sat glaring at the embers of the dying fire . 
Line Art Drawing The Flight of the Fugitives Tip reflected . 
It's a hard thing , to be a marble statue , he thought , rebelliously , and I'm not going to stand it . 
For years I've been a bother to her , she says so she's going to get rid of me . 
Well , there's an easier way than to become a statue . 
He waited until the snores of the old witch announced she was fast asleep , and then he arose softly and went to the cupboard to find something to eat . 
No use starting on a journey without food , he decided , searching upon the narrow shelves . 
He found some crusts of bread but he had to look into Mombi's basket to find the cheese she had brought from the village . 
While turning over the contents of the basket he came upon the pepper box which contained the Powder of Life . 
I may as well take this with me , he thought , or Mombi'll be using it to make more mischief with . 
So he put the box in his pocket , together with the bread and cheese . 
Then he cautiously left the house and latched the door behind him . 
Outside both moon and stars shone brightly , and the night seemed peaceful and inviting after the close and ill smelling kitchen . 
I'll be glad to get away , said Tip , softly for I never did like that old woman . 
I wonder how I ever came to live with her . 
He was walking slowly toward the road when a thought made him pause . 
I don't like to leave Jack Pumpkinhead to the tender mercies of old Mombi , he muttered . 
And Jack belongs to me , for I made him even if the old witch did bring him to life . 
He retraced his steps to the cow stable and opened the door of the stall where the pumpkin Full page line art drawing . 
TIP LED HIM ALONG THE PATH . 
headed man had been left . 
Jack was standing in the middle of the stall , and by the moonlight Tip could see he was smiling just as jovially as ever . 
Come on ! said the boy , beckoning . 
Where to ? asked Jack . 
You'll know as soon as I do , answered Tip , smiling sympathetically into the pumpkin face . 
All we've got to do now is to tramp . 
Very well , returned Jack , and walked awkwardly out of the stable and into the moonlight . 
Tip turned toward the road and the man followed him . 
Jack walked with a sort of limp , and occasionally one of the joints of his legs would turn backward , instead of frontwise , almost causing him to tumble . 
But the Pumpkinhead was quick to notice this , and began to take more pains to step carefully so that he met with few accidents . 
Tip led him along the path without stopping an instant . 
Fairly satisfied that he had escaped for a time , at least being turned into a marble statue , the boy stopped his companion and seated himself upon a rock by the roadside . 
Let's have some breakfast , he said . 
Jack Pumpkinhead watched Tip curiously , but refused to join in the repast . 
I don't seem to be made the same way you are , he said . 
I know you are not , returned Tip for I made you . 
Oh ! Did you ? asked Jack . 
And carved your eyes and nose and ears and Line Art Drawing along the right side of the page mouth , said Tip proudly . 
Jack looked at his body and limbs critically . 
It strikes me you made a very good job of it , he remarked . 
Just so so , replied Tip , modestly for he began to see certain defects in the construction of his man . 
If I'd known we were going to travel together I might have been a little more particular . 
Yes , my son I really believe I am ! Then I owe you obedience , continued the man , and you owe me support . 
That's it , exactly , declared Tip , jumping up . 
So let us be off . 
Where are we going ? asked Jack , when they had resumed their journey . 
I'm not exactly sure , said the boy but I believe we are headed South , and that will bring us , sooner or later , to the Emerald City . 
What city is that ? enquired the Pumpkinhead . 
Why , it's the center of the Land of Oz , and the biggest town in all the country . 
I've never been there , myself , but I've heard all about its history . 
Is everything here purple ? asked Jack . 
Can't you see ? returned the boy . 
I believe I must be color blind , said the Pumpkinhead , after staring about him . 
Well , the grass is purple , and the trees are purple , and the houses and fences are purple , explained Tip . 
Even the mud in the roads is purple . 
But in the Emerald City everything is green that is purple here . 
Dear me ! said Jack . 
I'm getting confused with all this history . 
Who is the Scarecrow ? Another friend of Dorothy's , replied Tip . 
And who is Dorothy ? She was a girl that came here from Kansas , a place in the big , outside World . 
She got blown to the Land of Oz by a cyclone , and while she was here the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman accompanied her on her travels . 
And where is she now ? inquired the Pumpkinhead . 
Glinda the Good , who rules the Quadlings , sent her home again , said the boy . 
And what became of the Scarecrow ? I told you . 
He rules the Emerald City , answered Tip . 
I thought you said it was ruled by a wonderful Wizard , objected Jack , seeming more and more confused . 
Well , so I did . 
Now , pay attention , and I'll explain it , said Tip , speaking slowly and looking the smiling Pumpkinhead squarely in the eye . 
Dorothy went to the Emerald City to ask the Wizard to send her back to Kansas and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman went with her . 
But the Wizard couldn't send her back , because he wasn't so much of a Wizard as he might have been . 
Now , that is very interesting history , said Jack , well pleased and I understand it perfectly all but the explanation . 
I'm glad you do , responded Tip . 
After the Wizard was gone , the people of the Emerald City made His Majesty , the Scarecrow , their King and I have heard that he became a very popular ruler . 
Are we going to see this queer King ? asked Jack , with interest . 
I think we may as well , replied the boy unless you have something better to do . 
Oh , no , dear father , said the Pumpkinhead . 
I am quite willing to go wherever you please . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
But , he continued , after a pause , it is quite certain I shall wear out my wooden joints if I keep on walking . 
Tip reflected , as they journeyed on , that this was true . 
He began to regret that he had not constructed the wooden limbs more carefully and substantially . 
While thus engaged they came to the edge of a wood , and the boy sat down to rest upon an old sawhorse that some woodcutter had left there . 
Why don't you sit down ? he asked the Pumpkinhead . 
Won't it strain my joints ? inquired the other . 
It'll rest them , declared the boy . 
But Jack seemed to be in pretty good shape , after all , and Tip said to him I guess you'd better remain standing , hereafter . 
It seems the safest way . 
Very well , dear father . 
just as you say , replied the smiling Jack , who had been in no wise confused by his tumble . 
Presently the Pumpkinhead asked What is that thing you are sitting on ? Oh , this is a horse , replied the boy , carelessly . 
What is a horse ? demanded Jack . 
A horse ? Why , there are two kinds of horses , returned Tip , slightly puzzled how to explain . 
One kind of horse is alive , and has four legs and a head and a tail . 
And people ride upon its back . 
I understand , said Jack , cheerfully That's the kind of horse you are now sitting on . 
No , it isn't , answered Tip , promptly . 
Why not ? That one has four legs , and a head , and a tail . 
Tip looked at the saw horse more carefully , and found that the Pumpkinhead was right . 
The body had been formed from a tree trunk , and a branch had been left sticking up at one end that looked very much like a tail . 
In the other end were two big knots that resembled eyes , and a place had been chopped away that might easily be mistaken for the horse's mouth . 
This thing resembles a real horse more than I imagined , said Tip , trying to explain . 
If it were alive , wouldn't it trot , and prance , and eat oats ? inquired the Pumpkinhead . 
It would trot and prance , perhaps but it wouldn't eat oats , replied the boy , laughing at the idea . 
And of course it can't ever be alive , because it is made of wood . 
So am I , answered the man . 
Tip looked at him in surprise . 
Why , so you are ! he exclaimed . 
And the magic powder that brought you to life is here in my pocket . 
Full page line art drawing . 
THE MAGICAL POWDER OF LIFE He brought out the pepper box , and eyed it curiously . 
I wonder , said he , musingly , if it would bring the saw horse to life . 
If it would , returned Jack , calmly for nothing seemed to surprise him I could ride on its back , and that would save my joints from wearing out . 
I'll try it ! cried the boy , jumping up . 
But I wonder if I can remember the words old Mombi said , and the way she held her hands up . 
So he began by sprinkling some of the magic Powder of Life from the pepper box upon the body of the saw horse . 
Then he lifted his left hand , with the little finger pointing upward , and said Weaugh ! What does that mean , dear father ? asked Jack , curiously . 
I don't know , answered Tip . 
Then he lifted his right hand , with the thumb pointing upward and said Teaugh ! What's that , dear father ? inquired Jack . 
It means you must keep quiet ! replied the boy , provoked at being interrupted at so important a moment . 
How fast I am learning ! remarked the Pumpkinhead , with his eternal smile . 
The rest of the powder seemed to have vanished into the body of the horse . 
Good ! called Jack , while the boy looked on in astonishment . 
You are a very clever sorcerer , dear father ! Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
The Awakening of the Saw horse The Saw Horse , finding himself alive , seemed even more astonished than Tip . 
He rolled his knotty eyes from side to side , taking a first wondering view of the world in which he had now so important an existence . 
I don't believe the animal can hear you , he remarked . 
I shout loud enough , don't I ? answered Tip , angrily . 
Yes but the horse has no ears , said the smiling Pumpkinhead . 
Sure enough ! exclaimed Tip , noting the fact for the first time . 
How , then , am I going to stop him ? But at that instant the Saw Horse stopped himself , having concluded it was impossible to see his own body . 
He saw Tip , however , and came close to the boy to observe him more fully . 
I must find a halter for him , said Tip and having made a search in his pocket he produced a roll of strong cord . 
Unwinding this , he approached the Saw Horse and tied the cord around its neck , afterward fastening the other end to a large tree . 
The Saw Horse , not understanding the action , stepped backward and snapped the string easily but it made no attempt to run away . 
He's stronger than I thought , said the boy , and rather obstinate , too . 
Why don't you make him some ears ? asked Jack . 
Then you can tell him what to do . 
That's a splendid idea ! said Tip . 
So Tip got out his knife and fashioned some ears out of the bark of a small tree . 
I mustn't make them too big , he said , as he whittled , or our horse would become a donkey . 
How is that ? inquired Jack , from the roadside . 
Why , a horse has bigger ears than a man and a donkey has bigger ears than a horse , explained Tip . 
Then , if my ears were longer , would I be a horse ? asked Jack . 
My friend , said Tip , gravely , you'll never be anything but a Pumpkinhead , no matter how big your ears are . 
Oh , returned Jack , nodding I think I understand . 
If you do , you're a wonder , remarked the boy but there's no harm in thinking you understand . 
I guess these ears are ready now . 
Will you hold the horse while I stick them on ? Certainly , if you'll help me up , said Jack . 
They make him look very handsome , said Jack , admiringly . 
Then he continued to rush forward as if frightened by the clatter of his own foot steps . 
Tip ran up to it . 
You're a nice sort of a horse , I must say ! he exclaimed . 
Of course it does , answered Tip . 
And a hole in the ground means to stop , also , doesn't it ? continued the horse . 
To be sure unless you step over it , said Tip . 
What a strange place this is , the creature exclaimed , as if amazed . 
What am I doing here , anyway ? Full page line art drawing . 
DO KEEP THOSE LEGS STILL . 
Why , I've brought you to life , answered the boy but it won't hurt you any , if you mind me and do as I tell you . 
Then I will do as you tell me , replied the Saw Horse , humbly . 
But what happened to me , a moment ago ? I don't seem to be just right , someway . 
You're upside down , explained Tip . 
But just keep those legs still a minute and I'll set you right side up again . 
How many sides have I ? asked the creature , wonderingly . 
Several , said Tip , briefly . 
But do keep those legs still . 
The Saw Horse now became quiet , and held its legs rigid so that Tip , after several efforts , was able to roll him over and set him upright . 
Ah , I seem all right now , said the queer animal , with a sigh . 
One of your ears is broken , Tip announced , after a careful examination . 
I'll have to make a new one . 
Now , said he , addressing his steed , pay attention to what I'm going to tell you . 
'Whoa ! means to stop 'Get Up ! means to walk forward 'Trot ! means to go as fast as you can . 
Understand ? I believe I do , returned the horse . 
I don't mind , said the Saw Horse . 
Anything that suits you suits me . 
Then Tip assisted Jack to get upon the horse . 
Hold on tight , he cautioned , or you may fall off and crack your pumpkin head . 
That would be horrible ! said Jack , with a shudder . 
What shall I hold on to ? Why , hold on to his ears , replied Tip , after a moment's hesitation . 
Don't do that ! remonstrated the Saw Horse for then I can't hear . 
That seemed reasonable , so Tip tried to think of something else . 
I'll fix it ! said he , at length . 
He went into the wood and cut a short length of limb from a young , stout tree . 
One end of this he sharpened to a point , and then he dug a hole in the back of Full page line art drawing . 
DOES IT HURT ? ASKED THE BOY the Saw Horse , just behind its head . 
Next he brought a piece of rock from the road and hammered the post firmly into the animal's back . 
Stop ! Stop ! shouted the horse you're jarring me terribly . 
Does it hurt ? asked the boy . 
Not exactly hurt , answered the animal but it makes me quite nervous to be jarred . 
Well , it's all over now said Tip , encouragingly . 
Now , Jack , be sure to hold fast to this post and then you can't fall off and get smashed . 
So Jack held on tight , and Tip said to the horse Get up . 
The obedient creature at once walked forward , rocking from side to side as he raised his feet from the ground . 
Tip walked beside the Saw Horse , quite content with this addition to their party . 
Presently he began to whistle . 
What does that sound mean ? asked the horse . 
Don't pay any attention to it , said Tip . 
I'm just whistling , and that only means I'm pretty well satisfied . 
I'd whistle myself , if I could push my lips together , remarked Jack . 
I fear , dear father , that in some respects I am sadly lacking . 
After journeying on for some distance the narrow path they were following turned into a broad roadway , paved with yellow brick . 
By the side of the road Tip noticed a sign post that read NINE MILES TO THE EMERALD CITY . 
But it was now growing dark , so he decided to camp for the night by the roadside and to resume the journey next morning by daybreak . 
He led the Saw Horse to a grassy mound upon which grew several bushy trees , and carefully assisted the Pumpkinhead to alight . 
I think I'll lay you upon the ground , overnight , said the boy . 
You will be safer that way . 
How about me ? asked the Saw Horse . 
It won't hurt you to stand , replied Tip and , as you can't sleep , you may as well watch out and see that no one comes near to disturb us . 
Then the boy stretched himself upon the grass beside the Pumpkinhead , and being greatly wearied by the journey was soon fast asleep . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
Jack Pumpkinhead's Ride to the Emerald City At daybreak Tip was awakened by the Pumpkinhead . 
He rubbed the sleep from his eyes , bathed in a little brook , and then ate a portion of his bread and cheese . 
Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said Let us start at once . 
Nine miles is quite a distance , but we ought to reach the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen . 
So the Pumpkinhead was again perched upon the back of the Saw Horse and the journey was resumed . 
The little party had traveled but a short two miles upon their way when the road of yellow brick was parted by a broad and swift river . 
Tip was puzzled how to cross over but after a time he discovered a man in a ferry boat approaching from the other side of the stream . 
But I have no money , said Tip . 
None at all ? inquired the man . 
None at all , answered the boy . 
Then I'll not break my back rowing you over , said the ferryman , decidedly . 
What a nice man ! remarked the Pumpkinhead , smilingly . 
The ferryman stared at him , but made no reply . 
Tip was trying to think , for it was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so suddenly brought to an end . 
That wooden horse will float , said he and Line Art Drawing you can ride him across . 
As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you , let him sink or swim it won't matter greatly which . 
Don't worry about me , said Jack , smiling pleasantly upon the crabbed ferryman I'm sure I ought to float beautifully . 
Tip thought the experiment was worth making , and the Saw Horse , who did not know what danger meant , offered no objections whatever . 
So the boy led it down into the water and climbed upon its back . 
Jack also waded in up to his knees and grasped the tail of the horse so that he might keep his pumpkin head above the water . 
Now , said Tip , instructing the Saw Horse , if you wiggle your legs you will probably swim and if you swim we shall probably reach the other side . 
The Saw Horse at once began to wiggle its legs , which acted as oars and moved the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side . 
So successful was the trip that presently they were climbing , wet and dripping , up the grassy bank . 
Tip's trouser legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked but the Saw Horse had floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely dry . 
As for the Pumpkinhead , every stitch of his gorgeous clothing dripped water . 
The sun will soon dry us , said Tip and , anyhow , we are now safely across , in spite of the ferryman , and can continue our journey . 
I didn't mind swimming , at all , remarked the horse . 
Nor did I , added Jack . 
If you ride fast , said he , the wind will help to dry your clothing . 
I will hold on to the horse's tail and run after you . 
In this way we all will become dry in a very short time . 
Then the horse must step lively , said Jack . 
I'll do my best , returned the Saw Horse , cheerfully . 
Soon he was out of breath , and although he wanted to call Whoa ! to the horse , he found he could not get the word out of his throat . 
So he did the only sensible thing he could do . 
He sat down and took a good rest , and afterward began walking along the road . 
Some time I will surely overtake them , he reflected for the road will end at the gates of the Emerald City , and they can go no further than that . 
Meantime Jack was holding fast to the post and the Saw Horse was tearing along the road like a racer . 
Neither of them knew Tip was left behind , for the Pumpkinhead did not look around and the Saw Horse couldn't . 
So suddenly did the horse obey that had it not been for his post Jack would have been pitched off head foremost , and his beautiful face ruined . 
That was a fast ride , dear father ! he exclaimed and then , hearing no reply , he turned around and discovered for the first time that Tip was not there . 
This apparent desertion puzzled the Pumpkinhead , and made him uneasy . 
This man was short and round , with a fat face that seemed remarkably good natured . 
He was clothed all in green and wore a high , peaked green hat upon his head and green spectacles over his eyes . 
Bowing before the Pumpkinhead he said I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald City . 
The Guardian of the Gates looked surprised , and shook his head as if dissatisfied with the reply . 
What are you , a man or a pumpkin ? he asked , politely . 
Both , if you please , answered Jack . 
And this wooden horse is it alive ? questioned the Guardian . 
The horse rolled one knotty eye upward and winked at Jack . 
Then it gave a prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian's toes . 
Ouch ! cried the man I'm sorry I asked that question . 
But the answer is most convincing . 
Have you any errand , sir , in the Emerald City ? It seems to me that I have , replied the Pumpkinhead , seriously but I cannot think what it is . 
My father knows all about it , but he is not here . 
This is a strange affair very strange ! declared the Guardian . 
Folks do not smile so delightfully when they mean mischief . 
As for that , said Jack , I cannot help my smile , for it is carved on my face with a jack knife . 
Well , come with me into my room , resumed the Guardian , and I will see what can be done for you . 
So Jack rode the Saw Horse through the gateway into a little room built into the wall . 
The Guardian pulled a bell cord , and presently a very tall soldier clothed in a green uniform entered from the opposite door . 
This soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely green whiskers that fell quite to his knees . 
The Guardian at once addressed him , saying Here is a strange gentleman who doesn't know why he has come to the Emerald City , or what he wants . 
Tell me , what shall we do with him ? The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and curiosity . 
Finally he shook his head so positively that little waves rippled down his whiskers , and then he said I must take him to His Majesty , the Scarecrow . 
But what will His Majesty , the Scarecrow , do with him ? asked the Guardian of the Gates . 
That is His Majesty's business , returned the soldier . 
I have troubles enough of my own . 
All outside troubles must be turned over to His Majesty . 
So put the spectacles on this fellow , and I'll take him to the royal palace . 
So the Guardian opened a big box of spectacles and tried to fit a pair to Jack's great round eyes . 
But why need I wear spectacles ? asked Jack . 
It's the fashion here , said the Soldier , and they will keep you from being blinded by the glitter and glare of the gorgeous Emerald City . 
Tie them on , by all means . 
I don't wish to be blinded . 
Nor I ! broke in the Saw Horse so a pair of green spectacles was quickly fastened over the bulging knots that served it for eyes . 
Then the Soldier with the Green Whiskers led them through the inner gate and they at once found themselves in the main street of the magnificent Emerald City . 
Sparkling green gems ornamented the fronts of the beautiful houses and the towers and turrets were all faced with emeralds . 
Even the green marble pavement glittered with precious stones , and it was indeed a grand and marvelous sight to one who beheld it for the first time . 
However , the Pumpkinhead and the Saw Horse , knowing nothing of wealth and beauty , paid little attention to the wonderful sights they saw through their green spectacles . 
They calmly followed after the green soldier and scarcely noticed the crowds of green people who stared at them in surprise . 
The Pumpkinhead wanted to ride up the green marble steps and straight into the Scarecrow's presence but the soldier would not permit that . 
The stranger was left in a handsomely furnished waiting room while the soldier went to announce him . 
Jack felt no fear or embarrassment at meeting the ruler of this magnificent city , for he was entirely ignorant of all worldly customs . 
But when he en tered the room and saw for the first time His Majesty the Scarecrow seated upon his glittering throne , he stopped short in amazement . 
The clothes were also stuffed with straw , and that so unevenly or carelessly that his Majesty's legs and arms seemed more bumpy than was necessary . 
Upon his hands were gloves with long fingers , and these were padded with cotton . 
Wisps of straw stuck out from the monarch's coat and also from his neck and boot tops . 
Indeed , the crown alone betokened majesty in all else the , Scarecrow King was but a simple scarecrow flimsy , awkward , and unsubstantial . 
But if the strange appearance of his Majesty the Scarecrow seemed startling to Jack , no less wonderful was the form of the Pumpkinhead to the Scarecrow . 
He made a more careful examination of his visitor , and soon discovered that Jack's features were carved into a smile and that he could not look grave if he wished to . 
The King was the first to speak . 
What don't you understand ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Why , I don't understand your language . 
You see , I came from the Country of the Gillikins , so that I am a foreigner . 
Ah , to be sure ! exclaimed the Scarecrow . 
I myself speak the language of the Munchkins , which is also the language of the Emerald City . 
That is unfortunate , certainly , said the Scarecrow , thoughtfully . 
We must have an interpreter . 
What is an interpreter ? asked Jack . 
A person who understands both my language and your own . 
When I say anything , the interpreter can tell you what I mean and when you say anything the interpreter can tell me what you mean . 
For the interpreter can speak both languages as well as understand them . 
That is certainly clever , said Jack , greatly pleased at finding so simple a way out of the difficulty . 
When the Soldier had departed the Scarecrow said Won't you take a chair while we are waiting ? Your Majesty forgets that I cannot understand you , replied the Pumpkinhead . 
If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to do so . 
The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair to a position behind the Pumpkinhead . 
Did you understand that sign ? asked His Majesty , politely . 
Perfectly , declared Jack , reaching up his arms to turn his head to the front , the pumpkin having twisted around upon the stick that supported it . 
You seem hastily made , remarked the Scarecrow , watching Jack's efforts to straighten himself . 
Not more so than your Majesty , was the frank reply . 
There is this difference between us , said the Scarecrow , that whereas I will bend , but not break , you will break , but not bend . 
Full page line art drawing . 
HE GAVE JACK A SUDDEN PUSH At this moment the soldier returned leading a young girl by the hand . 
She seemed very sweet and modest , having a pretty face and beautiful green eyes and hair . 
A dainty green silk skirt reached to her knees , showing silk stockings embroidered with pea pods , and green satin slippers with bunches of lettuce for decorations instead of bows or buckles . 
Upon her silken waist clover leaves were embroidered , and she wore a jaunty little jacket trimmed with sparkling emeralds of a uniform size . 
Why , it's little Jellia Jamb ! exclaimed the Scarecrow , as the green maiden bowed her pretty head before him . 
Do you understand the language of the Gillikins , my dear ? Yes , your Majesty , she answered , for I was born in the North Country . 
Then you shall be our interpreter , said the Scarecrow , and explain to this Pumpkinhead all that I say , and also explain to me all that he says . 
Is this arrangement satisfactory ? he asked , turning toward his guest . 
Very satisfactory indeed , was the reply . 
Who made you ? A boy named Tip , answered Jack . 
What does he say ? inquired the Scarecrow . 
My ears must have deceived me . 
What did he say ? He says that your Majesty's brains seem to have come loose , replied the girl , demurely . 
The Scarecrow moved uneasily upon his throne , and felt of his head with his left hand . 
What a fine thing it is to understand two different languages , he said , with a perplexed sigh . 
Ask him , my dear , if he has any objection to being put in jail for insulting the ruler of the Emerald City . 
I didn't insult you ! protested Jack , indignantly . 
Tut tut ! cautioned the Scarecrow wait , until Jellia translates my speech . 
Translate the speech , young woman . 
His Majesty inquires if you are hungry , said Jellia . 
Oh , not at all ! answered Jack , more pleasantly , for it is impossible for me to eat . 
It's the same way with me , remarked the Scarecrow . 
What did he say , Jellia , my dear ? He asked if you were aware that one of your eyes is painted larger than the other , said the girl , mischievously . 
Don't you believe her , your Majesty , cried Jack . 
Oh , I don't , answered the Scarecrow , calmly . 
Then how is it that I seem to understand them myself ? inquired the Scarecrow . 
Because they are one and the same ! declared the girl , now laughing merrily . 
This should be a warning to you never to think , returned the Scarecrow , severely . 
For unless one can think wisely it is better to remain a dummy which you most certainly are . 
I am ! I surely am ! agreed the Pumpkinhead . 
It seems to me , continued the Scarecrow , more mildly , that your manufacturer spoiled some good pies to create an indifferent man . 
I assure your Majesty that I did not ask to be created , answered Jack . 
Ah ! It was the same in my case , said the King , pleasantly . 
And so , as we differ from all ordinary people , let us become friends . 
With all my heart ! exclaimed Jack . 
What ! Have you a heart ? asked the Scarecrow , surprised . 
No that was only imaginative I might say , a figure of speech , said the other . 
To be sure ! said Jack , without in the least comprehending . 
Full page line art drawing . 
Full page line art drawing . 
Jinjur's Army of Revolt Tip was so anxious to rejoin his man Jack and the Saw Horse that he walked a full half the distance to the Emerald City without stopping to rest . 
Then he discovered that he was hungry and the crackers and cheese he had provided for the Journey had all been eaten . 
While wondering what he should do in this emergency he came upon a girl sitting by the roadside . 
Fastening the waist in front were four buttons the top one blue , the next yellow , a third red and the last purple . 
Yes , the face was pretty enough , he decided but it wore an expression of discontent coupled to a shade of defiance or audacity . 
While the boy stared the girl looked upon him calmly . 
He was just about to ask a share of the luncheon when the girl stood up and brushed the crumbs from her lap . 
There ! said she it is time for me to go . 
Carry that basket for me and help yourself to its contents if you are hungry . 
Tip seized the basket eagerly and began to eat , following for a time the strange girl without bothering to ask questions . 
She walked along before him with swift strides , and there was about her an air of decision and importance that led him to suspect she was some great personage . 
Thank you very much for the sandwiches , said Tip , as he trotted along . 
May I ask your name ? I am General Jinjur , was the brief reply . 
Oh ! said the boy surprised . 
What sort of a General ? I command the Army of Revolt in this war , answered the General , with unnecessary sharpness . 
Oh ! he again exclaimed . 
I didn't know there was a war . 
It is , indeed , acknowledged Tip . 
But where is your army ? About a mile from here , said General Jinjur . 
The forces have assembled from all parts of the Land of Oz , at my express command . 
For this is the day we are to conquer His Majesty the Scarecrow , and wrest from him the throne . 
The Army of Revolt only awaits my coming to march upon the Emerald City . 
So we intend to conquer the City and run the government to suit ourselves . 
Jinjur spoke these words with an eagerness and decision that proved she was in earnest . 
But war is a terrible thing , said Tip , thoughtfully . 
This war will be pleasant , replied the girl , cheerfully . 
Many of you will be slain ! continued the boy , in an awed voice . 
Oh , no , said Jinjur . 
What man would oppose a girl , or dare to harm her ? And there is not an ugly face in my entire Army . 
Perhaps you are right , said he . 
But the Guardian of the Gate is considered a faithful Guardian , and the King's Army will not let the City be conquered without a struggle . 
The Army is old and feeble , replied General Jinjur , scornfully . 
His strength has all been used to grow whiskers , and his wife has such a temper that she has already pulled more than half of them out by the roots . 
When the Wonderful Wizard reigned the Soldier with the Green Whiskers was a very good Royal Army , for people feared the Wizard . 
But no one is afraid of the Scarecrow , so his Royal Army don't count for much in time of war . 
After this conversation they proceeded some distance in silence , and before long reached a large clearing in the forest where fully four hundred young women were assembled . 
These were laughing and talking together as gaily as if they had gathered for a picnic instead of a war of conquest . 
They were divided into four companies , and Tip noticed that all were dressed in costumes similar to that worn by General Jinjur . 
All had green waists , representing the Emerald City they intended to conquer , and the top button on each waist indicated by its color which country the wearer came from . 
The uniforms were Jaunty and becoming , and quite effective when massed together . 
Tip thought this strange Army bore no weapons whatever but in this he was wrong . 
For each girl had stuck through the knot of her back hair two long , glittering knitting needles . 
General Jinjur immediately mounted the stump of a tree and addressed her army . 
The command to march was now given , and the girls formed themselves into four bands , or companies , and set off with eager strides toward the Emerald City . 
Line Art Drawing on the right of this page . 
Line Art Drawing The boy followed after them , carrying several baskets and wraps and packages which various members of the Army of Revolt had placed in his care . 
It was not long before they came to the green granite walls of the City and halted before the gateway . 
The Guardian of the Gate at once came out and looked at them curiously , as if a circus had come to town . 
Surrender ! echoed the man , astounded . 
It's against the law ! I never heard of such a thing in my life . 
Still , you must surrender ! exclaimed the General , fiercely . 
We are revolting ! You don't look it , said the Guardian , gazing from one to another , admiringly . 
Don't you know it's a dangerous thing to conquer a city ? We are not afraid ! responded the General and she looked so determined that it made the Guardian uneasy . 
So he rang the bell for the Soldier with the Green Whiskers , and the next minute was sorry he had done so . 
The poor man howled loudly for mercy and made no resistance when Jinjur drew the bunch of keys from around his neck . 
Followed by her Army the General now rushed Full page line art drawing . 
GENERAL JINJUR AND HER ARMY CAPTURE THE CITY . 
to the gateway , where she was confronted by the Royal Army of Oz which was the other name for the Soldier with the Green Whiskers . 
Halt ! he cried , and pointed his long gun full in the face of the leader . 
for my gun isn't loaded . 
Not loaded ? No for fear of accidents . 
And I've forgotten where I hid the powder and shot to load it with . 
But if you'll wait a short time I'll try to hunt them up . 
Don't trouble yourself , said Jinjur , cheerfully . 
But the Royal Army of Oz was too much afraid of women to meet the onslaught . 
He simply turned about and ran with all his might through the gate and toward the royal palace , while General Jinjur and her mob flocked into the unprotected City . 
In this way was the Emerald City captured without a drop of blood being spilled . 
The Army of Revolt had become an Army of Conquerors ! Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
The Scarecrow Plans an escape Tip slipped away from the girls and followed swiftly after the Soldier with the Green Whiskers . 
The invading army entered the City more slowly , for they stopped to dig emeralds out of the walls and paving stones with the points of their knitting needles . 
So the Soldier and the boy reached the palace before the news had spread that the City was conquered . 
Tally one for me , said the Scarecrow , calmly What's wrong , my man ? he added , addressing the Soldier . 
Oh ! your Majesty your Majesty ! The City is conquered ! gasped the Royal Army , who was all out of breath . 
This is quite sudden , said the Scarecrow . 
But please go and bar all the doors and windows of the palace , while I show this Pumpkinhead how to throw a quoit . 
The Soldier hastened to do this , while Tip , who had arrived at his heels , remained in the courtyard to look at the Scarecrow with wondering eyes . 
Good afternoon , noble parent ! he cried , delightedly . 
I'm glad to see you are here . 
That terrible Saw Horse ran away with me . 
I suspected it , said Tip . 
Did you get hurt ? Are you cracked at all ? No , I arrived safely , answered Jack , and his Majesty has been very kind indeed to me . 
But where was my Standing Army at the time ? inquired his Majesty , looking at the Soldier , gravely . 
Your Standing Army was running , answered the fellow , honestly for no man could face the terrible weapons of the invaders . 
Well , said the Scarecrow , after a moment's thought , I don't mind much the loss of my throne , for it's a tiresome job to rule over the Emerald City . 
And this crown is so heavy that it makes my head ache . 
But I hope the Conquerors have no intention of injuring me , just because I happen to be the King . 
I heard them , say remarked Tip , with some hesitation , that they intend to make a rag carpet of your outside and stuff their sofa cushions with your inside . 
Then I am really in danger , declared his Majesty , positively , and it will be wise for me to consider a means to escape . 
Where can you go ? asked Jack Pumpkinhead . 
Why , to my friend the Tin Woodman , who Line Art Drawing rules over the Winkies , and calls himself their Emperor , was the answer . 
I am sure he will protect me . 
Tip was looking out the window . 
The palace is surrounded by the enemy , said he It is too late to escape . 
They would soon tear you to pieces . 
In an emergency , he announced , it is always a good thing to pause and reflect . 
Please excuse me while I pause and reflect . 
But we also are in danger , said the Pumpkinhead , anxiously . 
If any of these girls understand cooking , my end is not far off ! Nonsense ! exclaimed the Scarecrow . 
they're too busy to cook , even if they know how ! But should I remain here a prisoner for any length of time , protested Jack , I'm liable to spoil . 
Ah ! then you would not be fit to associate with , returned the Scarecrow . 
The matter is more serious than I suspected . 
You , said the Pumpkinhead , gloomily , are liable to live for many years . 
My life is necessarily short . 
So I must take advantage of the few days that remain to me . 
There , there ! Don't worry , answered the Scarecrow soothingly if you'll keep quiet long enough for me to think , I'll try to find some way for us all to escape . 
So the others waited in patient silence while the Scarecrow walked to a corner and stood with his face to the wall for a good five minutes . 
At the end of that time he faced them with a more cheerful expression upon his painted face . 
Where is the Saw Horse you rode here ? he asked the Pumpkinhead . 
Why , I said he was a jewel , and so your man locked him up in the royal treasury , said Jack . 
It was the only place I could think of your Majesty , added the Soldier , fearing he had made a blunder . 
It pleases me very much , said the Scarecrow . 
Has the animal been fed ? Oh , yes I gave him a heaping peck of sawdust . 
Excellent ! cried the Scarecrow . 
Bring the horse here at once . 
The Soldier hastened away , and presently they heard the clattering of the horse's wooden legs upon the pavement as he was led into the courtyard . 
His Majesty regarded the steed critically . 
He doesn't seem especially graceful ! he remarked , musingly . 
but I suppose he can run ? He can , indeed , said Tip , gazing upon the Saw Horse admiringly . 
Then , bearing us upon his back , he must make a dash through the ranks of the rebels and carry us to my friend the Tin Woodman , announced the Scarecrow . 
He can't carry four ! objected Tip . 
No , but he may be induced to carry three , said his Majesty . 
I shall therefore leave my Royal Army Behind . 
For , from the ease with which he was conquered , I have little confidence in his powers . 
Still , he can run , declared Tip , laughing . 
I expected this blow said the Soldier , sulkily but I can bear it . 
I shall disguise myself by cutting off my lovely green whiskers . 
And , after all , it is no more dangerous to face those reckless girls than to ride this fiery , untamed wooden horse ! Perhaps you are right , observed his Majesty . 
But , for my part , not being a soldier , I am fond of danger . 
Now , my boy , you must mount first . 
And please sit as close to the horse's neck as possible . 
Tip climbed quickly to his place , and the Soldier and the Scarecrow managed to hoist the Pumpkinhead to a seat just behind him . 
There remained so little space for the King that he was liable to fall off as soon as the horse started . 
Fetch a clothesline , said the King to his Army , and tie us all together . 
Then if one falls off we will all fall off . 
And while the Soldier was gone for the clothesline his Majesty continued , it is well for me to be careful , for my very existence is in danger . 
I have to be as careful as you do , said Jack . 
Not exactly , replied the Scarecrow . 
for if anything happened to me , that would be the end of me . 
But if anything happened to you , they could use you for seed . 
Now throw open the gates , commanded the Scarecrow , and we will make a dash to liberty or to death . 
The courtyard in which they were standing was located in the center of the great palace , which surrounded it on all sides . 
But in one place a passage led to an outer gateway , which the Soldier had barred by order of his sovereign . 
Now , said Tip to the horse , you must save us all . 
Run as fast as you can for the gate of the City , and don't let anything stop you . 
All right ! answered the Saw Horse , gruffly , and dashed away so suddenly that Tip had to gasp Full page line art drawing . 
WE WILL MAKE A DASH TO LIBERTY OR TO DEATH . 
for breath and hold firmly to the post he had driven into the creature's neck . 
Several of the girls , who stood outside guarding the palace , were knocked over by the Saw Horse's mad rush . 
Others ran screaming out of the way , and only one or two jabbed their knitting needles frantically at the escaping prisoners . 
Nor did the impetuous charger stop then . 
Full page line art drawing . 
THE WOODEN STEED GAVE ONE FINAL LEAP Slow him up ! Slow him up ! shouted the Scarecrow . 
My straw is all shaking down into my legs . 
But Tip had no breath to speak , so the Saw Horse continued his wild career unchecked and with unabated speed . 
Presently they came to the banks of a wide river , and without a pause the wooden steed gave one final leap and launched them all in mid air . 
Line Art Drawing The Journey to the Tin Woodman Tip was well soaked and dripping water from every angle of his body . 
What does that word 'fool' mean ? enquired the horse . 
It is a term of reproach , answered Tip , somewhat ashamed of the expression . 
I only use it when I am angry . 
Then it pleases me to be able to call you a fool , in return , said the horse . 
That is quite evident , replied Tip so I will acknowledge myself in the wrong . 
Then he called out to the Pumpkinhead are you all right , Jack ? There was no reply . 
So the boy called to the King are you all right , your majesty ? The Scarecrow groaned . 
I'm all wrong , somehow , he said , in a weak voice . 
With some difficulty the boy managed to get his knife out of his pocket and cut the cords that bound the riders to one another and to the wooden horse . 
He heard the Scarecrow fall to the ground with a mushy sound , and then he himself quickly dismounted and looked at his friend Jack . 
Tip would have laughed had he not been so anxious about his man Jack . 
Far out upon the waters he sighted the golden hue of the pumpkin , which gently bobbed up and down with the motion of the waves . 
At that moment it was quite out of Tip's reach , but after a time it floated nearer and still nearer until the boy Full page line art drawing . 
TIP RESCUES JACK'S PUMPKIN HEAD was able to reach it with his pole and draw it to the shore . 
Dear me ! were Jack's first words . 
So he carefully removed the straw from the King's body and legs , and spread it out in the sun to dry . 
The wet clothing he hung over the body of the Saw Horse . 
If water spoils pumpkins , observed Jack , with a deep sigh , then my days are numbered . 
I've never noticed that water spoils pumpkins , returned Tip unless the water happens to be boiling . 
If your head isn't cracked , my friend , you must be in fairly good condition . 
Oh , my head isn't cracked in the least , declared Jack , more cheerfully . 
Then don't worry , retorted the boy . 
Care once killed a cat . 
Then , said Jack , seriously , I am very glad indeed that I am not a cat . 
The sun was fast drying their clothing , and Tip stirred up his Majesty's straw so that the warm rays might absorb the moisture and make it as crisp and dry as ever . 
When this had been accomplished he stuffed the Scarecrow into symmetrical shape and smoothed out his face so that he wore his usual gay and charming expression . 
Thank you very much , said the monarch , brightly , as he walked about and found himself to be well balanced . 
There are several distinct advantages in being a Scarecrow . 
For if one has friends near at hand to repair damages , nothing very serious can happen to you . 
I wonder if hot sunshine is liable to crack pumpkins , said Jack , with an anxious ring in his voice . 
Not at all not at all ! replied the Scarecrow , gaily . 
All you need fear , my boy , is old age . 
When your golden youth has decayed we shall quickly part company but you needn't look forward to it we'll discover the fact ourselves , and notify you . 
But come ! Let us resume our journey . 
I am anxious to greet my friend the Tin Woodman . 
So they remounted the Saw Horse , Tip holding to the post , the Pumpkinhead clinging to Tip , and the Scarecrow with both arms around the wooden form of Jack . 
Full page line art drawing . 
TIP STUFFS THE SCARECROW WITH DRY STRAW . 
Go slowly , for now there is no danger of pursuit , said Tip to his steed . 
All right ! responded the creature , in a voice rather gruff . 
Aren't you a little hoarse ? asked the Pumpkinhead politely . 
The Saw Horse gave an angry prance and rolled one knotty eye backward toward Tip . 
See here , he growled , can't you protect me from insult ? To be sure ! answered Tip , soothingly . 
I am sure Jack meant no harm . 
And it will not do for us to quarrel , you know we must all remain good friends . 
I'll have nothing more to do with that Pumpkinhead , declared the Saw Horse , viciously . 
he loses his head too easily to suit me . 
There seemed no fitting reply to this speech , so for a time they rode along in silence . 
After a while the Scarecrow remarked This reminds me of old times . 
It was upon this grassy knoll that I once saved Dorothy from the Stinging Bees of the Wicked Witch of the West . 
Do Stinging Bees injure pumpkins ? asked Jack , glancing around fearfully . 
They are all dead , so it doesn't matter , replied the Scarecrow . 
And here is where Nick Chopper destroyed the Wicked Witch's Grey Wolves . 
Who was Nick Chopper ? asked Tip . 
That is the name of my friend the Tin Woodman , answered his Majesty . 
And here is where the Winged Monkeys captured and bound us , and flew away with little Dorothy , he continued , after they had traveled a little way farther . 
Do Winged Monkeys ever eat pumpkins ? asked Jack , with a shiver of fear . 
Then the stuffed monarch became lost in thought recalling the days of past adventures . 
And the Saw Horse rocked and rolled over the flower strewn fields and carried its riders swiftly upon their way . 
Twilight fell , bye and bye , and then the dark shadows of night . 
So Tip stopped the horse and they all proceeded to dismount . 
I'm tired out , said the boy , yawning wearily and the grass is soft and cool . 
Let us lie down here and sleep until morning . 
I can't sleep , said Jack . 
I never do , said the Scarecrow . 
I do not even know what sleep is , said the Saw Horse . 
I remember it was the same way with little Dorothy . 
We always had to sit through the night while she slept . 
I'm sorry , said Tip , meekly , but I can't help it . 
And I'm dreadfully hungry , too ! Here is a new danger ! remarked Jack , gloomily . 
I hope you are not fond of eating pumpkins . 
Not unless they're stewed and made into pies , answered the boy , laughing . 
So have no fears of me , friend Jack . 
What a coward that Pumpkinhead is ! said the Saw Horse , scornfully . 
You might be a coward yourself , if you knew you were liable to spoil ! retorted Jack , angrily . 
There ! there ! interrupted the Scarecrow don't let us quarrel . 
We all have our weaknesses , dear friends so we must strive to be considerate of one another . 
Thank you ! exclaimed Tip , gratefully . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
These the boy ate greedily , finding them an ample breakfast , and afterward the little party resumed its Journey . 
I thought that 'Emperor' was the title of a person who rules an empire , said Tip , and the Country of the Winkies is only a Kingdom . 
Don't mention that to the Tin Woodman ! exclaimed the Scarecrow , earnestly . 
You would hurt his feelings terribly . 
He is a proud man , as he has every reason to be , and it pleases him to be termed Emperor rather than King . 
I'm sure it makes no difference to me , replied the boy . 
An aged Winkie , dressed in a uniform of silver cloth , came forward to assist them to alight . 
Said the Scarecrow to his personage Show us at once to your master , the Emperor . 
The man looked from one to another of the party in an embarrassed way , and finally answered I fear I must ask you to wait for a time . 
The Emperor is not receiving this morning . 
How is that ? enquired the Scarecrow , anxiously . 
I hope nothing has happened to him . 
Oh , no nothing serious , returned the man . 
But this is his Majesty's day for being polished and just now his august presence is thickly smeared with putz pomade . 
Oh , I see ! cried the Scarecrow , greatly reassured . 
My friend was ever inclined to be a dandy , and I suppose he is now more proud than ever of his personal appearance . 
He is , indeed , said the man , with a polite bow . 
Our mighty Emperor has lately caused himself to be nickel plated . 
Good Gracious ! the Scarecrow exclaimed at hearing this . 
But I will venture to tell him of your arrival , and will receive his commands concerning you . 
So the party followed the servant into a splendid ante room , and the Saw Horse ambled awkwardly after them , having no knowledge that a horse might be expected to remain outside . 
My dear old friend ! My noble comrade ! cried the Tin Woodman , joyfully . 
how delighted ! , I am to meet you once again . 
Full page line art drawing . 
CAUGHT THE SCARECROW IN A CLOSE AND LOVING EMBRACE And then he released the Scarecrow and held him at arms' length while he surveyed the beloved , painted features . 
Dear me ! said the Scarecrow dolefully . 
What a mess I'm in ! Never mind , my friend , returned the Tin Woodman , I'll send you to my Imperial Laundry , and you'll come out as good as new . 
Won't I be mangled ? asked the Scarecrow . 
No , indeed ! was the reply . 
You are not very substantial , I must admit , said the Emperor . 
but you are certainly unusual , and therefore worthy to become a member of our select society . 
I thank your Majesty , said Jack , humbly . 
Line Art Drawing I hope you are enjoying good health ? continued the Woodman . 
At present , yes replied the Pumpkinhead , with a sigh but I am in constant terror of the day when I shall spoil . 
Nonsense ! said the Emperor but in a kindly , sympathetic tone . 
Do not , I beg of you , dampen today's sun with the showers of tomorrow . 
For before your head has time to spoil you can have it canned , and in that way it may be preserved indefinitely . 
This was accomplished in a short time , and when the emperor returned his nickel plated body shone so magnificently that the Scarecrow heartily congratulated him on his improved appearance . 
That nickel plate was , I confess , a happy thought , said Nick and it was the more necessary because I had become somewhat scratched during my adventurous experiences . 
You will observe this engraved star upon my left breast . 
Is your heart , then , a hand organ ? asked the Pumpkinhead , curiously . 
By no means , responded the emperor , with dignity . 
It is , I am convinced , a strictly orthodox heart , although somewhat larger and warmer than most people possess . 
Then he turned to the Scarecrow and asked Are your subjects happy and contented , my dear friend ? I cannot , say was the reply . 
for the girls of Oz have risen in revolt and driven me out of the emerald City . 
So they have captured my city , robbed the treasury of all its jewels , and are running things to suit themselves . 
Dear me ! What an extraordinary idea ! cried the Emperor , who was both shocked and surprised . 
And I heard some of them say , said Tip , that they intend to march here and capture the castle and city of the Tin Woodman . 
Ah ! we must not give them time to do that , said the Emperor , quickly we will go at once and Full page line art drawing . 
RENOVATING HIS MAJESTY , THE SCARECROW . 
recapture the Emerald City and place the Scarecrow again upon his throne . 
I was sure you would help me , remarked the Scarecrow in a pleased voice . 
How large an army can you assemble ? We do not need an army , replied the Woodman . 
We four , with the aid of my gleaming axe , are enough to strike terror into the hearts of the rebels . 
We five , corrected the Pumpkinhead . 
Five ? repeated the Tin Woodman . 
Yes the Saw Horse is brave and fearless , answered Jack , forgetting his recent quarrel with the quadruped . 
The Tin Woodman looked around him in a puzzled way , for the Saw Horse had until now remained quietly standing in a corner , where the Emperor had not noticed him . 
Tip immediately called the odd looking creature to them , and it approached so awkwardly that it nearly upset the beautiful center table and the engraved oil can . 
and the Saw Horse has been very useful to us . 
He enabled us to escape the rebels , added the Scarecrow . 
Then we must surely accept him as a comrade , declared the emperor . 
A live Saw Horse is a distinct novelty , and should prove an interesting study . 
Does he know anything ? Well , I cannot claim any great experience in life , the Saw Horse answered for himself . 
but I seem to learn very quickly , and often it occurs to me that I know more than any of those around me . 
Perhaps you do , said the emperor for experience does not always mean wisdom . 
But time is precious Just now , so let us quickly make preparations to start upon our Journey . 
The emperor called his Lord High Chancellor and instructed him how to run the kingdom during his absence . 
Meanwhile the Scarecrow was taken apart and the painted sack that served him for a head was carefully laundered and restuffed with the brains originally given him by the great Wizard . 
The Scarecrow now presented a very respectable appearance , and although in no way addicted to vanity he was quite pleased with himself and strutted a trifle as he walked . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
So Jinjur sent post haste for old Mombi , the witch , and promised her large rewards if she would come to the assistance of the rebel army . 
That was why the Tin Woodman presently stopped and said Something very curious has happened . 
I ought to know by heart and every step of this Journey , yet I fear we have already lost our way . 
That is quite impossible ! protested the Scarecrow . 
At these words they all looked around , only to find that they were indeed surrounded by a field of tall stalks , every stalk bearing at its top a gigantic sunflower . 
It's witchcraft ! exclaimed Tip . 
While they paused , hesitating and wondering , the Tin Woodman uttered a cry of impatience and advanced with swinging axe to cut down the stalks before him . 
But now the sunflowers suddenly stopped their rapid whirling , and the travelers plainly saw a girl's face appear in the center of each flower . 
These lovely faces looked upon the astonished band with mocking smiles , and then burst into a chorus of merry laughter at the dismay their appearance caused . 
The Tin Woodman dropped his axe and sat down upon the ground . 
It would be heartless to chop down those pretty creatures , said he , despondently . 
and yet I do not know how else we can proceed upon our way They looked to me strangely like the faces of the Army of Revolt , mused the Scarecrow . 
But I cannot conceive how the girls could have followed us here so quickly . 
I believe it's magic , said Tip , positively , and that someone is playing a trick upon us . 
I've known old Mombi do things like that before . 
Probably it's nothing more than an illusion , and there are no sunflowers here at all . 
Then let us shut our eyes and walk forward , suggested the Woodman . 
Excuse me , replied the Scarecrow . 
My eyes are not painted to shut . 
Because you happen to have tin eyelids , you must not imagine we are all built in the same way . 
And the eyes of the Saw Horse are knot eyes , said Jack , leaning forward to examine them . 
Nevertheless , you must ride quickly forward , commanded Tip , and we will follow after you and so try to escape . 
My eyes are already so dazzled that I can scarcely see . 
So the Pumpkinhead rode boldly forward , and Tip grasped the stub tail of the Saw Horse and followed with closed eyes . 
The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman brought up the rear , and before they had gone many yards a Joyful shout from Jack announced that the way was clear before them . 
Then all paused to look backward , but not a trace of the field of sunflowers remained . 
For no witch craft could change the course of the sun , and it was therefore a safe guide . 
However , other difficulties lay before them . 
The Saw Horse stepped into a rabbit hole and fell to the ground . 
Tip soon had it fitted to the neck again and replaced Jack upon his feet . 
But the Saw Horse did not escape so easily . 
For when his leg was pulled from the rabbit hole it was found to be broken short off , and must be replaced or repaired before he could go a step farther . 
This is quite serious , said the Tin Woodman . 
If there were trees near by I might soon manufacture another leg for this animal but I cannot see even a shrub for miles around . 
Full page line art drawing . 
THE TIN WOODMAN SKILLFULLY CAUGHT THE PUMPKIN And there are neither fences nor houses in this part of the land of Oz , added the Scarecrow , disconsolately . 
Then what shall we do ? enquired the boy . 
Let us all think , said Tip and perhaps we shall find a way to repair the Saw Horse . 
So they sat in a row upon the grass and began to think , while the Saw Horse occupied itself by gazing curiously upon its broken limb . 
Does it hurt ? asked the Tin Woodman , in a soft , sympathetic voice . 
Not in the least , returned the Saw Horse but my pride is injured to find that my anatomy is so brittle . 
For a time the little group remained in silent thought . 
Presently the Tin Woodman raised his head and looked over the fields . 
What sort of creature is that which approaches us ? he asked , wonderingly . 
The others followed his gaze , and discovered coming toward them the most extraordinary object they had ever beheld . 
It advanced quickly and noiselessly over the soft grass and in a few minutes stood before the adventurers and regarded them with an astonishment equal to their own . 
The Scarecrow was calm under all circumstances . 
Good morning ! he said , politely . 
The stranger removed his hat with a flourish , bowed very low , and then responded Line Art Drawing Good morning , one and all . 
I hope you are , as an aggregation , enjoying excellent health . 
Permit me to present my card . 
With this courteous speech it extended a card toward the Scarecrow , who accepted it , turned it over and over , and handed it with a shake of his head to Tip . 
The boy read aloud MR . 
H. M. WOGGLE BUG , T. E. Dear me ! ejaculated the Pumpkinhead , staring somewhat intently . 
How very peculiar ! said the Tin Woodman . 
Tip's eyes were round and wondering , and the Saw Horse uttered a sigh and turned away its head . 
Are you really a Woggle Bug ? enquired the Scarecrow . 
Most certainly , my dear sir ! answered the stranger , briskly . 
Is not my name upon the card ? It is , said the Scarecrow . 
But may I ask what 'H . 
M. stands for ? 'H . 
M. means Highly Magnified , returned the Woggle Bug , proudly . 
The Scarecrow viewed the stranger critically . 
And are you , in truth , highly magnified ? Sir , said the Woggle Bug , I take you for a gentleman of judgment and discernment . 
Pardon me , returned the Scarecrow . 
My brains are slightly mixed since I was last laundered . 
Would it be improper for me to ask , also , what the 'T . 
E. at the end of your name stands for ? Those letters express my degree , answered the Woggle Bug , with a condescending smile . 
To be more explicit , the initials mean that I am Thoroughly Educated . 
Oh ! said the Scarecrow , much relieved . 
Tip had not yet taken his eyes off this wonderful personage . 
What he saw was a great , round , buglike body supported upon two slender legs which ended in delicate feet the toes curling upward . 
It must be admitted that the round , black eyes were rather bulging in appearance but the expression upon the Woggle Bug's face was by no means unpleasant . 
I confess , said the Scarecrow , that your abrupt appearance has caused me surprise , and no doubt has startled my companions . 
I hope , however , that this circumstance will not distress you . 
We shall probably get used to you in time . 
Do not apologize , I beg of you ! returned the Woggle Bug , earnestly . 
It affords me great pleasure to surprise people for surely I cannot be classed with ordinary insects and am entitled to both curiosity and admiration from those I meet . 
You are , indeed , agreed his Majesty . 
You may say what you please , answered the Tin Woodman , briefly . 
The chill nights rendered me stiff and motionless , for I wore no clothing , but each morning the warm rays of the sun gave me new life and restored me to activity . 
A horrible existence is this , but you must remember it is the regular ordained existence of Woggle Bugs , as well as of many other tiny creatures that inhabit the earth . 
So I found a charming nest between two bricks and hid myself therein for many , many months . 
Not one of them was more attentive than the humble , unnoticed Woggle Bug , and I acquired in this way a fund of knowledge that I will myself confess is simply marvelous . 
That is why I place 'T . 
E. Thoroughly Educated upon my cards for my greatest pride lies in the fact that the world cannot produce another Woggle Bug with a tenth part of my own culture and erudition . 
I do not blame you , said the Scarecrow . 
Education is a thing to be proud of . 
The mess of brains given me by the Great Wizard is considered by my friends to be unexcelled . 
Nevertheless , interrupted the Tin Woodman , a good heart is , I believe , much more desirable than education or brains . 
To me , said the Saw Horse , a good leg is more desirable than either . 
Could seeds be considered in the light of brains ? enquired the Pumpkinhead , abruptly . 
Keep quiet ! commanded Tip , sternly . 
Very well , dear father , answered the obedient Jack . 
The Woggle Bug listened patiently even respectfully to these remarks , and then resumed his story . 
I must have lived fully three years in that secluded school house hearth , said he , drinking thirstily of the ever flowing fount of limpid knowledge before me . 
Quite poetical , commented the Scarecrow , nodding his head approvingly . 
But one , day continued the Bug , a marvelous circumstance occurred that altered my very existence and brought me to my present pinnacle of greatness . 
The Line Art Drawing Professor discovered me in the act of crawling across the hearth , and before I could escape he had caught me between his thumb and forefinger . 
'My dear children , said he , 'I have captured a Woggle Bug a very rare and interesting specimen . 
Do any of you know what a Woggle Bug is ? 'No ! yelled the scholars , in chorus . 
THEE STUDENTS STOOD UP ON THEIR STOOLS . 
bosom , made a very polite bow . 
The Professor uttered a cry of horror and rushed away through the door to see if the poor children were injured by the fall . 
The scholars followed after him in a wild mob , and I was left alone in the school room , still in a Highly Magnified state and free to do as I pleased . 
It immediately occurred to me that this was a good opportunity to escape . 
It was , indeed , agreed the Woggle Bug . 
I didn't know before , said Tip , looking at the Woggle Bug with a puzzled expression , that insects wore clothes . 
Nor do they , in their natural state , returned the stranger . 
But in the course of my wanderings I had the good fortune to save the ninth life of a tailor tailors having , like cats , nine lives , as you probably know . 
It fits very nicely , does it not ? and the Woggle Bug stood up and turned himself around slowly , that all might examine his person . 
He must have been a good tailor , said the Scarecrow , somewhat enviously . 
He was a good hearted tailor , at any rate , observed Nick Chopper . 
But where were you going , when you met us ? Tip asked the Woggle Bug . 
We are bound for the Emerald City now , said the Tin Woodman so , if it pleases you to do so , you are welcome to travel in our company . 
The Woggle Bug bowed with profound grace . 
It will give me great pleasure , said he to accept your kind invitation for nowhere in the Land of Oz could I hope to meet with so congenial a company . 
That is true , acknowledged the Pumpkinhead . 
We are quite as congenial as flies and honey . 
But pardon me if I seem inquisitive are you not all rather ahem ! rather unusual ? asked the Woggle Bug , looking from one to another with unconcealed interest . 
Not more so than yourself , answered the Scarecrow . 
Everything in life is unusual until you get accustomed to it . 
What rare philosophy ! exclaimed the Woggle Bug , admiringly . 
Yes my brains are working well today , admitted the Scarecrow , an accent of pride in his voice . 
Then , if you are sufficiently rested and refreshed , let us bend our steps toward the Emerald City , suggested the magnified one . 
We can't , said Tip . 
The Saw Horse has broken a leg , so he can't bend his steps . 
And there is no wood around to make him a new limb from . 
And we can't leave the horse behind because the Pumpkinhead is so stiff in his Joints that he has to ride . 
How very unfortunate ! cried the Woggle Bug . 
Now , that is what I call real cleverness , said the Scarecrow , approvingly . 
I wonder my brains did not think of that long ago ! Get to work , my dear Nick , and fit the Pumpkinhead's leg to the Saw Horse . 
Jack was not especially pleased with this idea but he submitted to having his left leg amputated by the Tin Woodman and whittled down to fit the left leg of the Saw Horse . 
I beg you to be more careful in your speech , said the Pumpkinhead , sharply . 
Remember , if you please , that it is my leg you are abusing . 
I cannot forget it , retorted the Saw Horse , for it is quite as flimsy as the rest of your person . 
Flimsy ! me flimsy ! cried Jack , in a rage . 
How dare you call me flimsy ? Because you are built as absurdly as a jumping jack , sneered the horse , rolling his knotty eyes in a vicious manner . 
As a matter of fact , we are none of us above criticism so let us bear with each others' faults . 
An excellent suggestion , said the Woggle Bug , approvingly . 
You must have an excellent heart , my metallic friend . 
I have , returned Nick , well pleased . 
My heart is quite the best part of me . 
But now let us start upon our Journey . 
They perched the one legged Pumpkinhead upon the Saw Horse , and tied him to his seat with cords , so that he could not possibly fall off . 
And then , following the lead of the Scarecrow , they all advanced in the direction of the Emerald City . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
Old Mombi indulges in Witchcraft They soon discovered that the Saw Horse limped , for his new leg was a trifle too long . 
So they were obliged to halt while the Tin Woodman chopped it down with his axe , after which the wooden steed paced along more comfortably . 
But the Saw Horse was not entirely satisfied , even yet . 
It was a shame that I broke my other leg ! it growled . 
On the contrary , airily remarked the Woggle Bug , who was walking alongside , you should consider the accident most fortunate . 
For a horse is never of much use until he has been broken . 
Still , it is a Joke , declared the Woggle Bug firmly , and a Joke derived from a play upon words is considered among educated people to be eminently proper . 
What does that mean ? enquired the Pumpkinhead , stupidly . 
I don't believe that , said Tip , plainly anybody can make a pun . 
Not so , rejoined the Woggle Bug , stiffly . 
It requires education of a high order . 
Are you educated , young sir ? Not especially , admitted Tip . 
Then you cannot judge the matter . 
I myself am Thoroughly Educated , and I say that puns display genius . 
For instance , were I to ride upon this Saw Horse , he would not only be an animal he would become an equipage . 
For he would then be a horse and buggy . 
At this the Scarecrow gave a gasp and the Tin Woodman stopped short and looked reproachfully at the Woggle Bug . 
In any event , I must beg you to restrain your superior education while in our society . 
We are not very particular , added the Tin Woodman and we are exceedingly kind hearted . 
The others marched on in silence , and the Highly Magnified one , after a period of deep thought , said in an humble voice I will endeavor to restrain myself . 
That is all we can expect , returned the Scarecrow pleasantly and good nature being thus happily restored to the party , they proceeded upon their way . 
When they again stopped to allow Tip to rest the boy being the only one that seemed to tire the Tin Woodman noticed many small , round holes in the grassy meadow . 
This must be a village of the Field Mice , he said to the Scarecrow . 
I wonder if my old friend , the Queen of the Mice , is in this neighborhood . 
If she is , she may be of great service to us , answered the Scarecrow , who was impressed by a sudden thought . 
See if you can call her , my dear Nick . 
For the Tin Woodman had once saved her life , and the Queen of the Field Mice knew he was to be trusted . 
Can I do anything to assist my old friends ? You can , indeed , replied the Scarecrow , eagerly . 
Let me , I intreat you , take a dozen of your subjects with me to the Emerald City . 
Will they be injured in any way ? asked the Queen , doubtfully . 
I think not , replied the Scarecrow . 
By doing this they will assist me to regain my throne , which the Army of Revolt has taken from me . 
In that case , said the Queen , I will not refuse your request . 
Whenever you are ready , I will call twelve of my most intelligent subjects . 
I am ready now returned the Scarecrow . 
Then he lay flat upon the ground and unbuttoned his jacket , displaying the mass of straw with which he was stuffed . 
The Queen uttered a little piping call , and in an instant a dozen pretty field mice had emerged from their holes and stood before their ruler , awaiting her orders . 
When all of the twelve mice had thus concealed themselves , the Scarecrow buttoned his Jacket securely and then arose and thanked the Queen for her kindness . 
One thing more you might do to serve us , suggested the Tin Woodman and that is to run ahead and show us the way to the Emerald City . 
For some enemy is evidently trying to prevent us from reaching it . 
I will do that gladly , returned the Queen . 
Are you ready ? The Tin Woodman looked at Tip . 
I'm rested , said the boy . 
Then they resumed their journey , the little grey Queen of the Field Mice running swiftly ahead and then pausing until the travelers drew near , when away she would dart again . 
Without this unerring guide the Scarecrow and his comrades might never have gained the Emerald City for many were the obstacles thrown in their way by the arts of old Mombi . 
Yet not one of the obstacles really existed all were cleverly contrived deceptions . 
Again , a high wall of granite towered high above their heads and opposed their advance . 
But the grey Field Mouse walked straight through it , and the others did the same , the wall melting into mist as they passed it . 
But the Queen called for them to follow her and darted off in a straight line and when they had gone a few paces the whirling pathways vanished and were seen no more . 
Mombi's last trick was the most fearful of all . 
She sent a sheet of crackling flame rushing over the meadow to consume them and for the first time the Scarecrow became afraid and turned to fly . 
If that fire reaches me I will be gone in no time ! said he , trembling until his straw rattled . 
It's the most dangerous thing I ever encountered . 
I'm off , too ! cried the Saw Horse , turning and prancing with agitation for my wood is so dry it would burn like kindlings . 
Is fire dangerous to pumpkins ? asked Jack , fearfully . 
You'll be baked like a tart and so will I ! Line Art Drawing answered the Woggle Bug , getting down on all fours so he could run the faster . 
But the Tin Woodman , having no fear of fire , averted the stampede by a few sensible words . 
Look at the Field Mouse ! he shouted . 
The fire does not burn her in the least . 
In fact , it is no fire at all , but only a deception . 
Indeed , to watch the little Queen march calmly through the advancing flames restored courage to every member of the party , and they followed her without being even scorched . 
Of course it does , said the Scarecrow , wisely . 
All magic is unnatural , and for that reason is to be feared and avoided . 
But I see before us the gates of the Emerald City , so I imagine we have now overcome all the magical obstacles that seemed to oppose us . 
Indeed , the walls of the City were plainly visible , and the Queen of the Field Mice , who had guided them so faithfully , came near to bid them good bye . 
We are very grateful to your Majesty for your kind assistance , said the Tin Woodman , bowing before the pretty creature . 
I am always pleased to be of service to my friends , answered the Queen , and in a flash she had darted away upon her journey home . 
Full page line art drawing . 
But the Tin Woodman was not afraid . 
At the worst they can but scratch my beautiful nickel plate , he said . 
But there will be no 'worst , for I think I can manage to frighten these absurd soldiers very easily . 
At this rate we will soon have your Majesty upon the throne again , said the Tin Woodman , laughing at his easy conquest of the guards . 
Thank you , friend Nick , returned the Scarecrow , gratefully . 
Nothing can resist your kind heart and your sharp axe . 
What has happened ? the Scarecrow asked a sad looking man with a bushy beard , who wore an apron and was wheeling a baby carriage along the sidewalk . 
I'm glad you have decided to come back and restore order , for doing housework and minding the children is wearing out the strength of every man in the Emerald City . 
Hm ! said the Scarecrow , thoughtfully . 
If it is such hard work as you say , how did the women manage it so easily ? I really do not know replied the man , with a deep sigh . 
Perhaps the women are made of castiron . 
No movement was made , as they passed along the street , to oppose their progress . 
Several of the women stopped their gossip long enough to cast curious looks upon our friends , but immediately they would turn away with a laugh or a sneer and resume their chatter . 
This action rendered the Scarecrow uneasy . 
I'm afraid we are walking into a trap , said he . 
Look out for trouble ahead . 
I will , returned his Majesty . 
Unopposed they reached the royal palace and marched up the marble steps , which had once been Full page line art drawing . 
IT'S TOO EASY , ALTOGETHER . 
thickly crusted with emeralds but were now filled with tiny holes where the jewels had been ruthlessly torn from their settings by the Army of Revolt . 
And so far not a rebel barred their way . 
Seated within the glittering throne was General Jinjur , with the Scarecrow's second best crown upon her head , and the royal sceptre in her right hand . 
A box of caramels , from which she was eating , rested in her lap , and the girl seemed entirely at ease in her royal surroundings . 
The Scarecrow stepped forward and confronted her , while the Tin Woodman leaned upon his axe and the others formed a half circle back of his Majesty's person . 
How dare you sit in my throne ? demanded the Scarecrow , sternly eyeing the intruder . 
This view of the case puzzled the Scarecrow . 
How is it , friend Nick ? he asked , turning to the Tin Woodman . 
Why , when it comes to Law , I have nothing to , say answered that personage . 
for laws were never meant to be understood , and it is foolish to make the attempt . 
Then what shall we do ? asked the Scarecrow , in dismay . 
Why don't you marry the Queen ? And then you can both rule , suggested the Woggle Bug . 
Jinjur glared at the insect fiercely . 
Why don't you send her back to her mother , where she belongs ? asked Jack Pumpkinhead . 
Why don't you shut her up in a closet until she behaves herself , and promises to be good ? enquired Tip . 
Or give her a good shaking ! added the Saw Horse . 
No , said the Tin Woodman , we must treat the poor girl with gentleness . 
Let us give her all the Jewels she can carry , and send her away happy and contented . 
At this Queen Jinjur laughed aloud , and the next minute clapped her pretty hands together thrice , as if for a signal . 
You are very absurd creatures , said she but I am tired of your nonsense and have no time to bother with you longer . 
While the monarch and his friends listened in amazement to this impudent speech , a startling thing happened . 
The Tin Woodman's axe was snatched from his grasp by some person behind him , and he found himself disarmed and helpless . 
The entire throne room seemed to be filled with the rebels , and the Scarecrow and his comrades realized that they were prisoners . 
I bear you no ill will , I assure you but lest you should prove troublesome to me in the future I shall order you all to be destroyed . 
That is , all except the boy , who belongs to old Mombi and must be restored to her keeping . 
The rest of you are not human , and therefore it will not be wicked to demolish you . 
The Saw Horse and the Pumpkinhead's body I will have chopped up for kindling wood and the pumpkin shall be made into tarts . 
The Scarecrow will do nicely to start a bonfire , and the tin man can be cut into small pieces and fed to the goats . 
As for this immense Woggle Bug Highly Magnified , if you please ! interrupted the insect . 
I think I will ask the cook to make green turtle soup of you , continued the Queen , reflectively . 
Or , if that won't do , we might use you for a Hungarian goulash , stewed and highly spiced , she added , cruelly . 
This programme of extermination was so terrible that the prisoners looked upon one another in a panic of fear . 
The Scarecrow alone did not give way to despair . 
He stood quietly before the Queen and his brow was wrinkled in deep thought as he strove to find some means to escape . 
While thus engaged he felt the straw within his breast move gently . 
At once his expression changed from sadness to joy , and raising his hand he quickly unbuttoned the front of his jacket . 
Another mouse quickly followed then another and another , in rapid succession . 
And suddenly such a scream of terror went up from the Army that it might easily have filled the stoutest heart with consternation . 
The flight that ensued turned to a stampede , and the stampede to a panic . 
The Queen , at the first alarm , stood up on the cushions of the throne and began to dance frantically upon her tiptoes . 
But the enemy will soon return , I fear . 
Let us bar all the entrances to the palace ! said the Scarecrow . 
Then we shall have time to think what is best to be done . 
Then , knowing that the Army of Revolt could not batter down the barriers in several days , the adventurers gathered once more in the throne room for a council of war . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
And if she is right , then I am wrong , and we have no business to be occupying her palace . 
Especially as we have just conquered her and put her to flight , added the Pumpkinhead , as he raised his hands to turn his face toward the Scarecrow . 
Have we really conquered her ? asked the Scarecrow , quietly . 
Look out of the window , and tell me what you see . 
Tip ran to the window and looked out . 
The palace is surrounded by a double row of girl soldiers , he announced . 
I thought so , returned the Scarecrow . 
We are as truly their prisoners as we were before the mice frightened them from the palace . 
My friend is right , said Nick Chopper , who had been polishing his breast with a bit of chamois leather . 
Jinjur is still the Queen , and we are her prisoners . 
But I hope she cannot get at us , exclaimed the Pumpkinhead , with a shiver of fear . 
She threatened to make tarts of me , you know . 
Don't worry , said the Tin Woodman . 
If you stay shut up here you will spoil in time , anyway . 
A good tart is far more admirable than a decayed intellect . 
Very true , agreed the Scarecrow . 
Shucks ! returned Tip , indignantly . 
You ought to be glad that I made you at all . 
Then he added , reflectively , everything has to come to an end , some time . 
Don't you imagine he would make a better soup ? asked the Tin Woodman , turning toward his friend . 
Well , perhaps , acknowledged the Scarecrow . 
And in the meantime I am liable to starve to death , and so is the Woggle Bug , announced Tip . 
As for me , said the Woggle Bug , I think that I could live for some time on Jack Pumpkinhead . 
Not that I prefer pumpkins for food but I believe they are somewhat nutritious , and Jack's head is large and plump . 
How heartless ! exclaimed the Tin Woodman , greatly shocked . 
So let us end this mournful talk and try to discover a means to escape . 
What is this ? asked Nick Chopper , picking up the box . 
Be careful ! cried the boy . 
That's my Powder of Life . 
Don't spill it , for it is nearly gone . 
And what is the Powder of Life ? enquired the Scarecrow , as Tip replaced the box carefully in his pocket . 
It's some magical stuff old Mombi got from a crooked sorcerer , explained the boy . 
She brought Jack to life with it , and afterward I used it to bring the Saw Horse to life . 
I guess it will make anything live that is sprinkled with it but there's only about one dose left . 
Then it is very precious , said the Tin Woodman . 
Indeed it is , agreed the Scarecrow . 
It may prove our best means of escape from our difficulties . 
I believe I will think for a few minutes so I will thank you , friend Tip , to get out your knife and rip this heavy crown from my forehead . 
That is my last memento of royalty said he and I'm glad to get rid of it . 
The former King of this City , Line Art Drawing who was named Pastoria , lost the crown to the Wonderful Wizard , who passed it on to me . 
Now the girl Jinjur claims it , and I sincerely hope it will not give her a headache . 
A kindly thought , which I greatly admire , said the Tin Woodman , nodding approvingly . 
And now I will indulge in a quiet think , continued the Scarecrow , lying back in the throne . 
The others remained as silent and still as possible , so as not to disturb him for all had great confidence in the extraordinary brains of the Scarecrow . 
I'm quite proud of them . 
Now , listen ! If we attempt to escape through the doors of the palace we shall surely be captured . 
And , as we can't escape through the ground , there is only one other thing to be done . 
We must escape through the air ! He paused to note the effect of these words but all his hearers seemed puzzled and unconvinced . 
The Wonderful Wizard escaped in a balloon , he continued . 
We don't know how to make a balloon , of course but any sort of thing that can fly through the air can carry us easily . 
Bravo ! cried Nick Chopper . 
What splendid brains ! murmured Jack . 
Really quite clever ! said the Educated Woggle Bug . 
I believe it can be done , declared Tip that is , if the Tin Woodman is equal to making the Thing . 
I'll do my best , said Nick , cheerily and , as a matter of fact , I do not often fail in what I attempt . 
But the Thing will have to be built on the roof of the palace , so it can rise comfortably into the air . 
Line Art Drawing To be sure , said the Scarecrow . 
Then let us search through the palace , continued the Tin Woodman , and carry all the material we can find to the roof , where I will begin my work . 
First , however , said the Pumpkinhead , I beg you will release me from this horse , and make me another leg to walk with . 
For in my present condition I am of no use to myself or to anyone else . 
It seems strange , said he , as he watched the Tin Woodman work , that my left leg should be the most elegant and substantial part of me . 
That proves you are unusual , returned the Scarecrow . 
and I am convinced that the only people worthy of consideration in this world are the unusual ones . 
For the common folks are like the leaves of a tree , and live and die unnoticed . 
Spoken like a philosopher ! cried the Woggle Bug , as he assisted the Tin Woodman to set Jack upon his feet . 
How do you feel now ? asked Tip , watching the Pumpkinhead stump around to try his new leg . 
As good as new answered Jack , Joyfully , and quite ready to assist you all to escape . 
Then let us get to work , said the Scarecrow , in a business like tone . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
The Astonishing Flight of the Gump When the adventurers reassembled upon the roof it was found that a remarkably queer assortment of articles had been selected by the various members of the party . 
No one seemed to have a very clear idea of what was required , but all had brought something . 
This Gump resembled an Elk's head , only the nose turned upward in a saucy manner and there were whiskers upon its chin , like those of a billy goat . 
Why the Woggle Bug selected this article he could not have explained , except that it had aroused his curiosity . 
Tip , with the aid of the Saw Horse , had brought a large , upholstered sofa to the roof . 
The Pumpkinhead had brought a broom , which was the first thing he saw . 
The Tin Woodman appeared last . 
My dear Nick ! exclaimed the Scarecrow , seeing what his friend had done you have been guilty of the greatest crime any person can commit in the Emerald City . 
If I remember rightly , the Full page line art drawing . 
ALL BROUGHT SOMETHING TO THE ROOF . 
penalty for chopping leaves from the royal palm tree is to be killed seven times and afterward imprisoned for life . 
It cannot be helped now answered the Tin Woodman , throwing down the big leaves upon the roof . 
But it may be one more reason why it is necessary for us to escape . 
And now let us see what you have found for me to work with . 
But the Tin Woodman seemed at first by no means sure of his powers , and only after polishing his forehead vigorously with the chamois leather did he resolve to undertake the task . 
The first thing required for the machine , said he , is a body big enough to carry the entire party . 
This sofa is the biggest thing we have , and might be used for a body . 
But , should the machine ever tip sideways , we would all slide off and fall to the ground . 
Why not use two sofas ? asked Tip . 
There's another one just like this down stairs . 
That is a very sensible suggestion , exclaimed the Tin Woodman . 
You must fetch the other sofa at once . 
Excellent ! cried the Scarecrow . 
We can ride within this snug nest quite at our ease . 
The two sofas were now bound firmly together with ropes and clothes lines , and then Nick Chopper fastened the Gump's head to one end . 
That will show which is the front end of the Thing , said he , greatly pleased with the idea . 
And , really , if you examine it critically , the Gump looks very well as a figure head . 
These great palm leaves , for which I have endangered my life seven times , must serve us as wings . 
Are they strong enough ? asked the boy . 
So he fastened the palm leaves to the sofas , two on each side . 
Said the Woggle Bug , with considerable admiration The Thing is now complete , and only needs to be brought to life . 
Stop a moment ! exclaimed Jack . 
Are you not going to use my broom ? What for ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Why , it can be fastened to the back end for a tail , answered the Pumpkinhead . 
Surely you would not call the Thing complete without a tail . 
Hm ! said the Tin Woodman , I do not see the use of a tail . 
We are not trying to copy a beast , or a fish , or a bird . 
All we ask of the Thing is to carry us through the air . 
Perhaps , after the Thing is brought to life , it can use a tail to steer with , suggested the Scarecrow . 
For if it flies through the air it will not be unlike a bird , and I've noticed that all birds have tails , which they use for a rudder while flying . 
Very well , answered Nick , the broom shall be used for a tail , and he fastened it firmly to the back end of the sofa body . 
Tip took the pepper box from his pocket . 
The Thing looks very big , said he , anxiously and I am not sure there is enough powder left to bring all of it to life . 
But I'll make it go as far as possible . 
Put most on the wings , said Nick Chopper for they must be made as strong as possible . 
And don't forget the head ! exclaimed the Woggle Bug . 
Or the tail ! added Jack Pumpkinhead . 
Do be quiet , said Tip , nervously you must give me a chance to work the magic charm in the proper manner . 
Very carefully he began sprinkling the Thing with the precious powder . 
Each of the four wings was first lightly covered with a layer . 
then the sofas were sprinkled , and the broom given a slight coating . 
The head ! The head ! Don't , I beg of you , forget the head ! cried the Woggle Bug , excitedly . 
There's only a little of the powder left , announced Tip , looking within the box . 
And it seems to me it is more important to bring the legs of the sofas to life than the head . 
Not so , decided the Scarecrow . 
Every thing must have a head to direct it and since this creature is to fly , and not walk , it is really unimportant whether its legs are alive or not . 
So Tip abided by this decision and sprinkled the Gump's head with the remainder of the powder . 
It was a grave and impressive ceremony . 
Tip managed to grasp a chimney , else he would have been blown off the roof by the terrible breeze raised by the wings . 
The Scarecrow , being light in weight , was caught up bodily and borne through the air until Tip luckily seized him by one leg and held him fast . 
The Saw Horse toppled over upon his back and lay with his legs waving helplessly above him . 
And now , while all were struggling to recover themselves , the Thing rose slowly from the roof and mounted into the air . 
Here ! Come back ! cried Tip , in a frightened voice , as he clung to the chimney with one hand and the Scarecrow with the other . 
For the Gump , already high in the air , turned its head at Tip's command and gradually circled around until it could view the roof of the palace . 
Come back ! shouted the boy , again . 
And the Gump obeyed , slowly and gracefully waving its four wings in the air until the Thing had settled once more upon the roof and become still . 
Full page line art drawing . 
The last thing I remember distinctly is walking through the forest and hearing a loud noise . 
Something probably killed me then , and it certainly ought to have been the end of me . 
Yet here I am , alive again , with four monstrous wings and a body which I venture to say would make any respectable animal or fowl weep with shame to own . 
What does it all mean ? Am I a Gump , or am I a juggernaut ? The creature , as it spoke , wiggled its chin whiskers in a very comical manner . 
You're just a Thing , answered Tip , with a Gump's head on it . 
And we have made you and brought you to life so that you may carry us through the air wherever we wish to go . 
Very good ! said the Thing . 
As I am not a Gump , I cannot have a Gump's pride or independent spirit . 
So I may as well become your servant as anything else . 
My only satisfaction is that I do not seem to have a very strong constitution , and am not likely to live long in a state of slavery . 
Don't say that , I beg of you ! cried the Tin Woodman , whose excellent heart was strongly affected by this sad speech . 
And it waved its broom tail to and fro in a pensive manner . 
Come , come ! said the Scarecrow , kindly . 
do try , to be more cheerful and take life as you find it . 
We shall be kind masters , and will strive to render your existence as pleasant as possible . 
Are you willing to carry us through the air wherever we wish to go ? Certainly , answered the Gump . 
I greatly prefer to navigate the air . 
And yet , continued the Thing , when I carefully look you over , my masters , none of you seems to be constructed much more artistically than I am . 
Appearances are deceitful , said the Woggle Bug , earnestly . 
I am both Highly Magnified and Thoroughly Educated . 
Indeed ! murmured the Gump , indifferently . 
And my brains are considered remarkably rare specimens , added the Scarecrow , proudly . 
How strange ! remarked the Gump . 
Although I am of tin , said the Woodman , I own a heart altogether the warmest and most admirable in the whole world . 
I'm delighted to hear it , replied the Gump , with a slight cough . 
My smile , said Jack Pumpkinhead , is worthy your best attention . 
It is always the same . 
Semper idem , explained the Woggle Bug , pompously and the Gump turned to stare at him . 
And I , declared the Saw Horse , filling in an awkward pause , am only remarkable because I can't help it . 
I am proud , indeed , to meet with such exceptional masters , said the Gump , in a careless tone . 
If I could but secure so complete an introduction to myself , I would be more than satisfied . 
That will come in time , remarked the Scare crow . 
To 'Know Thyself' is considered quite an accomplishment , which it has taken us , who are your elders , months to perfect . 
But now , he added , turning to the others , let us get aboard and start upon our journey . 
Where shall we go ? asked Tip , as he clambered to a seat on the sofas and assisted the Pumpkinhead to follow him . 
In the South Country rules a very delightful Queen called Glinda the Good , who I am sure will gladly receive us , said the Scarecrow , getting into the Thing clumsily . 
Let us go to her and ask her advice . 
That is cleverly thought of , declared Nick Chopper , giving the Woggle Bug a boost and then toppling the Saw Horse into the rear end of the cushioned seats . 
I know Glinda the Good , and believe she will prove a friend indeed . 
Are we all ready ? asked the boy . 
Yes , announced the Tin Woodman , seating himself beside the Scarecrow . 
All right , answered the Gump , briefly . 
The scenic effect , from this altitude , is marvelous , commented the educated Woggle Bug , as they rode along . 
Never mind the scenery , said the Scarecrow . 
Hold on tight , or you may get a tumble . 
The Thing seems to rock badly . 
It will be dark soon , said Tip , observing that the sun was low on the horizon . 
Perhaps we should have waited until morning . 
I wonder if the Gump can fly in the night . 
I've been wondering that myself , returned the Gump quietly . 
You see , this is a new experience to me . 
I used to have legs that carried me swiftly over the ground . 
But now my legs feel as if they were asleep . 
They are , said Tip . 
We didn't bring 'em to life . 
You're expected to fly , explained the Scarecrow . 
We can walk ourselves , said the Woggle Bug . 
I begin to understand what is required of me , remarked the Gump so I will do my best to please you , and he flew on for a time in silence . 
Presently Jack Pumpkinhead became uneasy . 
I wonder if riding through the air is liable to spoil pumpkins , he said . 
Not unless you carelessly drop your head over the side , answered the Woggle Bug . 
In that event your head would no longer be a pumpkin , for it would become a squash . 
Have I not asked you to restrain these unfeeling jokes ? demanded Tip , looking at the Woggle Bug with a severe expression . 
You have and I've restrained a good many of them , replied the insect . 
But there are opportunities for so many excellent puns in our language that , to an educated person like myself , the temptation to express them is almost irresistible . 
People with more or less education discovered those puns centuries ago , said Tip . 
Are you sure ? asked the Woggle Bug , with a startled look . 
Of course I am , answered the boy . 
An educated Woggle Bug may be a new thing but a Woggle Bug education is as old as the hills , judging from the display you make of it . 
The insect seemed much impressed by this remark , and for a time maintained a meek silence . 
The Scarecrow , in shifting his seat , saw upon the cushions the pepper box which Tip had cast aside , and began to examine it . 
Throw it overboard , said the boy it's quite empty now , and there's no use keeping it . 
Is it really empty ? asked the Scarecrow , looking curiously into the box . 
Of course it is , answered Tip . 
I shook out every grain of the powder . 
Then the box has two bottoms , announced the Scarecrow , for the bottom on the inside is fully an inch away from the bottom on the outside . 
Let me see , said the Tin Woodman , taking the box from his friend . 
Yes , he declared , after looking it over , the thing certainly has a false bottom . 
Now , I wonder what that is for ? Can't you get it apart , and find out ? enquired Tip , now quite interested in the mystery . 
Why , yes the lower bottom unscrews , said the Tin Woodman . 
My fingers are rather stiff please see if you can open it . 
He handed the pepper box to Tip , who had no difficulty in unscrewing the bottom . 
And in the cavity below were three silver pills , with a carefully folded paper lying underneath them . 
This paper the boy proceeded to unfold , taking care not to spill the pills , and found several lines clearly written in red ink . 
Read it aloud , said the Scarecrow . 
so Tip read , as follows DR . 
Directions for Use Swallow one pill count seventeen by twos then make a Wish . 
The Wish will immediately be granted . 
CAUTION Keep in a Dry and Dark Place . 
Why , this is a very valuable discovery ! cried the Scarecrow . 
It is , indeed , replied Tip , gravely . 
These pills may be of great use to us . 
I wonder if old Mombi knew they were in the bottom of the pepper box . 
I remember hearing her say that she got the Powder of Life from this same Nikidik . 
He must be a powerful Sorcerer ! exclaimed the Tin Woodman and since the powder proved a success we ought to have confidence in the pills . 
But how , asked the Scarecrow , can anyone count seventeen by twos ? Seventeen is an odd number . 
That is true , replied Tip , greatly disappointed . 
No one can possibly count seventeen by twos . 
Then the pills are of no use to us , wailed the Pumpkinhead and this fact overwhelms me with grief . 
For I had intended wishing that my head would never spoil . 
Nonsense ! said the Scarecrow , sharply . 
If we could use the pills at all we would make far better wishes than that . 
I do not see how anything could be better , protested poor Jack . 
If you were liable to spoil at any time you could understand my anxiety . 
For my part , said the Tin Woodman , I sympathize with you in every respect . 
But since we cannot count seventeen by twos , sympathy is all you are liable to get . 
By this time it had become quite dark , and the voyagers found above them a cloudy sky , through which the rays of the moon could not penetrate . 
The Gump flew steadily on , and for some reason the huge sofa body rocked more and more dizzily every hour . 
The Woggle Bug declared he was sea sick and Tip was also pale and somewhat distressed . 
But the others clung to the backs of the sofas and did not seem to mind the motion as long as they were not tipped out . 
Darker and darker grew the night , and on and on sped the Gump through the black heavens . 
The travelers could not even see one another , and an oppressive silence settled down upon them . 
After a long time Tip , who had been thinking deeply , spoke . 
How are we to know when we come to the pallace of Glinda the Good ? he asked . 
It's a long way to Glinda's palace , answered the Woodman I've traveled it . 
But how are we to know how fast the Gump is flying ? persisted the boy . 
We cannot see a single thing down on the earth , and before morning we may be far beyond the place we want to reach . 
That is all true enough , the Scarecrow replied , a little uneasily . 
So they permitted the Gump to fly on , with regular flops of its great wings , and waited patiently for morning . 
We are lost ! said the Scarecrow , dolefully . 
The Gump must have carried us entirely out of the Land of Oz and over the sandy deserts and into the terrible outside world that Dorothy told us about . 
We must get back , exclaimed the Tin Woodman , earnestly . 
we must get back as soon as possible ! Turn around ! cried Tip to the Gump . 
turn as quickly as you can ! If I do I shall upset , answered the Gump . 
I'm not at all used to flying , and the best plan would be for me to alight in some place , and then I can turn around and take a fresh start . 
Just then , however , there seemed to be no stopping place that would answer their purpose . 
They flew over a village so big that the Woggle Bug declared it was a city . 
and then they came to a range of high mountains with many deep gorges and steep cliffs showing plainly . 
Now is our chance to stop , said the boy , finding they were very close to the mountain tops . 
The Woggle Bug had bumped his round head against Full page line art drawing . 
ALL WERE IMMEDIATELY DUMPED OUT . 
the Saw Horse , but without causing him more than a moment's inconvenience . 
Our Journey had ended rather suddenly , said he and we cannot justly blame our friend the Gump for our accident , because he did the best he could under the circumstances . 
But how we are ever to escape from this nest I must leave to someone with better brains than I possess . 
Here he gazed at the Scarecrow who crawled to the edge of the nest and looked over . 
Below them was a sheer precipice several hundred feet in depth . 
Above them was a smooth cliff unbroken save by the point of rock where the wrecked body of the Gump still hung suspended from the end of one of the sofas . 
There really seemed to be no means of escape , and as they realized their helpless plight the little band of adventurers gave way to their bewilderment . 
This is a worse prison than the palace , sadly remarked the Woggle Bug . 
I wish we had stayed there , moaned Jack . 
I'm afraid the mountain air isn't good for pumpkins . 
It won't be when the Jackdaws come back , growled the Saw Horse , which lay waving its legs in a vain endeavor to get upon its feet again . 
Jackdaws are especially fond of pumpkins . 
Do you think the birds will come here ? asked Jack , much distressed . 
Of course they will , said Tip for this is their nest . 
And as the nest was safely hidden where no human being could reach it , this lost property would never be recovered . 
The Woggle Bug , searching among the rubbish for the Jackdaws stole useless things as well as valuable ones turned up with his foot a beautiful diamond necklace . 
TURNED UP A BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND NECKLACE . 
rejoicing exceedingly when the big diamonds glittered in the sun's rays . 
I was afraid of this ! moaned the Pumpkinhead . 
My time has come ! And mine , also ! said the Woggle Bug for Jackdaws are the greatest enemies of my race . 
The others were not at all afraid but the Scarecrow at once decided to save those of the party who were liable to be injured by the angry birds . 
and scattered the straw over Tip and the Woggle Bug , completely covering their bodies . 
Hardly had this been accomplished when the flock of Jackdaws reached them . 
Perceiving the intruders in their nest the birds flew down upon them with screams of rage . 
Full page line art drawing . 
Nikidik's Famous Wishing Pills The Tin Woodman was usually a peaceful man , but when occasion required he could fight as fiercely as a Roman gladiator . 
But although many were beaten off in this way , the birds were so numerous and so brave that they continued the attack as furiously as before . 
Some of them pecked at the eyes of the Gump , which hung over the nest in a helpless condition but the Gump's eyes were of glass and could not be injured . 
The Scarecrow's head , noting with dismay this wanton destruction of his interior , cried to the Tin Woodman to save him and that good friend responded with renewed energy . 
His axe fairly flashed among the Jackdaws , and fortunately the Gump began wildly waving the two wings remaining on the left side of its body . 
When the last foe had disappeared , Tip crawled from under the sofas and assisted the Woggle Bug to follow him . 
We are saved ! shouted the boy , delightedly . 
We are , indeed ! responded the Educated Insect , fairly hugging the stiff head of the Gump in his joy . 
He also set the Saw Horse upright , and said to it We owe you many thanks for the gallant fight you made . 
I really think we have escaped very nicely , remarked the Tin Woodman , in a tone of pride . 
Not so ! exclaimed a hollow voice . 
At this they all turned in surprise to look at the Scarecrow's head , which lay at the back of the nest . 
I am completely ruined ! declared the Scarecrow , as he noted their astonishment . 
For where is the straw that stuffs my body ? The awful question startled them all . 
They gazed around the nest with horror , for not a vestige of straw remained . 
The Jackdaws had stolen it to the last wisp and flung it all into the chasm that yawned for hundreds of feet beneath the nest . 
But why are you all so despondent ? inquired the Woggle Bug . 
The Scarecrow's clothing is still safe . 
Yes , answered the Tin Woodman but our friend's clothes are useless without stuffing . 
Why not stuff him with money ? asked Tip . 
Money ! they all cried , in an amazed chorus . 
To be sure , said the boy . 
In the bottom of the nest are thousands of dollar bills and two dollar bills and five dollar bills and tens , and twenties , and fifties . 
There are enough of them to stuff a dozen Scarecrows . 
There was an immense fortune lying in that inaccessible nest and Tip's suggestion was , with the Scarecrow's consent , quickly acted upon . 
They selected all the newest and cleanest bills and assorted them into various piles . 
Thank you , returned the Scarecrow , gratefully . 
And these are the possessions that have always made me a person to be depended upon in an emergency . 
Well , the emergency is here , observed Tip and unless your brains help us out of it we shall be compelled to pass the remainder of our lives in this nest . 
How about these wishing pills ? enquired the Scarecrow , taking the box from his jacket pocket . 
Can't we use them to escape ? Not unless we can count seventeen by twos , answered the Tin Woodman . 
But our friend the Woggle Bug claims to be highly educated , so he ought easily to figure out how that can be done . 
It isn't a question of education , returned the Insect it's merely a question of mathematics . 
But he never said anything , so far as I can remember , about counting up to the odd number of seventeen by the even numbers of twos . 
Stop ! stop ! cried the Pumpkinhead . 
You're making my head ache . 
And mine , added the Scarecrow . 
Your mathematics seem to me very like a bottle of mixed pickles the more you fish for what you want the less chance you have of getting it . 
I am certain that if the thing can be accomplished at all , it is in a very simple manner . 
old Mombi couldn't use x's and minuses , for she never went to school . 
Why not start counting at a half of one ? asked the Saw Horse , abruptly . 
Then anyone can count up to seventeen by twos very easily . 
They looked at each other in surprise , for the Saw Horse was considered the most stupid of the entire party . 
You make me quite ashamed of myself , said the Scarecrow , bowing low to the Saw Horse . 
I wonder I didn't think of that myself , said the Pumpkinhead . 
I don't , returned the Scarecrow . 
You're no wiser than the rest of us , are you ? But let us make a wish at once . 
Who will swallow the first pill ? Suppose you do it , suggested Tip . 
I can't , said the Scarecrow . 
Why not ? You've a mouth , haven't you ? asked the boy . 
Yes but my mouth is painted on , and there's no swallow connected with it , answered the Scarecrow . 
In fact , he continued , looking from one to another critically , I believe the boy and the Woggle Bug are the only ones in our party that are able to swallow . 
Observing the truth of this remark , Tip said Then I will undertake to make the first wish . 
Give me one of the Silver Pills . 
Count ! cried the Scarecrow . 
One half , one , three , five , seven , nine , eleven , ! counted Tip . 
thirteen , fifteen , seventeen . 
Now wish ! said the Tin Woodman anxiously But Just then the boy began to suffer such fearful pains that he became alarmed . 
What can we do for you . 
Speak , I beg ! entreated the Tin Woodman , tears of sympathy running down his nickel cheeks . 
I I don't know ! answered Tip . 
What's happened ? asked the boy , a little ashamed of his recent exhibition . 
Why , the three pills are in the box again ! said the Scarecrow . 
Of course they are , the Woggle Bug declared . 
Didn't Tip wish that he'd never swallowed one of them ? Well , the wish came true , and he didn't swallow one of them . 
So of course they are all three in the box . 
That may be but the pill gave me a dreadful pain , just the same , said the boy . 
Impossible ! declared the Woggle Line Art Drawing Bug . 
If you have never swallowed it , the pill can not have given you a pain . 
And as your wish , being granted , proves you did not swallow the pill , it is also plain that you suffered no pain . 
Then it was a splendid imitation of a pain , retorted Tip , angrily . 
Suppose you try the next pill yourself . 
We've wasted one wish already . 
Oh , no , we haven't ! protested the Scarecrow . 
Here are still three pills in the box , and each pill is good for a wish . 
Now you're making my head ache , said Tip . 
I can't understand the thing at all . 
But I won't take another pill , I promise you ! and with this remark he retired sulkily to the back of the nest . 
Let me have one of the pills . 
He swallowed it without hesitation , and they all stood admiring his courage while the Insect counted seventeen by twos in the same way that Tip had done . 
And for some reason perhaps because Woggle Bugs have stronger stomachs than boys the silver pellet caused it no pain whatever . 
I wish the Gump's broken wings mended , and as good as new ! said the Woggle Bug , in a slow impressive voice . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
The Scarecrow Appeals to Glenda the Good Hooray ! shouted the Scarecrow , gaily . 
We can now leave this miserable Jackdaws' nest whenever we please . 
But it is nearly dark , said the Tin Woodman and unless we wait until morning to make our flight we may get into more trouble . 
I don't like these night trips , for one never knows what will happen . 
So it was decided to wait until daylight , and the adventurers amused themselves in the twilight by searching the Jackdaws' nest for treasures . 
The Woggle Bug found two handsome bracelets of wrought gold , which fitted his slender arms very well . 
The Scarecrow took a fancy for rings , of which there were many in the nest . 
Before long he had fitted a ring to each finger of his padded gloves , and not being content with that display he added one more to each thumb . 
As he carefully chose those rings set with sparkling stones , such as rubies , amethysts and sapphires , the Scarecrow's hands now presented a most brilliant appearance . 
This nest would be a picnic for Queen Jinjur , said he , musingly . 
for as nearly as I can make out she and her girls conquered me merely to rob my city of its emeralds . 
He also pinned several jeweled brooches to Jack Pumpkinhead's red waistcoat , and attached a lorgnette , by means of a fine chain , to the neck of the Saw Horse . 
Darkness soon fell upon them , and Tip and the Woggle Bug went to sleep while the others sat down to wait patiently for the day . 
But our adventurers did not wait for the assault . 
They tumbled into the cushioned seats of the sofas as quickly as possible , and Tip gave the word to the Gump to start . 
The Thing flew due North , going in the same direction from whence it had come . 
At least , that was the Scarecrow's opinion , and the others agreed that the Scarecrow was the best judge of direction . 
After passing over several cities and villages the Gump carried them high above a broad plain where houses became more and more scattered until they disappeared altogether . 
What shall we do ? asked the boy , turning to their guide . 
I don't know replied the Scarecrow , frankly . 
If we were at the Emerald City we could then move directly southward , and so reach our destination . 
But we dare not go to the Emerald City , and the Gump is probably carrying us further in the wrong direction with every flop of its wings . 
Then the Woggle Bug must swallow another pill , said Tip , decidedly , and wish us headed in the right direction . 
Very well , returned the Highly Magnified one I'm willing . 
But when the Scarecrow searched in his pocket for the pepper box containing the two silver Wishing Pills , it was not to be found . 
Filled with anxiety , the voyagers hunted throughout every inch of the Thing for the precious box but it had disappeared entirely . 
And still the Gump flew onward , carrying them they knew not where . 
I must have left the pepper box in the Jackdaws' nest , said the Scarecrow , at length . 
It is a great misfortune , the Tin Woodman declared . 
But we are no worse off than before we discovered the Wishing Pills . 
We are better off , replied Tip . 
for the one pill we used has enabled us to escape from that horrible nest . 
Yet the loss of the other two is serious , and I deserve a good scolding for my carelessness , the Scarecrow rejoined , penitently . 
For in such an unusual party as this accidents are liable to happen any moment , and even now we may be approaching a new danger . 
No one dared contradict this , and a dismal silence ensued . 
The Gump flew steadily on . 
Suddenly Tip uttered an exclamation of surprise . 
Good ! cried the Scarecrow , delightedly . 
We do not need the lost Wishing Pills now , for we have arrived at our destination . 
Everything was very gorgeous in Glinda's gardens , and while our voyagers gazed about with admiring eyes a company of soldiers silently appeared and surrounded them . 
But these soldiers of the great Sorceress were entirely different from those of Jinjur's Army of Revolt , although they were likewise girls . 
For Glinda's soldiers wore neat uniforms and bore swords and spears and they marched with a skill and precision that proved them well trained in the arts of war . 
The Captain commanding this troop which was Glinda's private Body Guard recognized the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman at once , and greeted them with respectful salutations . 
Good day ! said the Scarecrow , gallantly removing his hat , while the Woodman gave a soldierly salute we have come to request an audience with your fair Ruler . 
Glinda is now within her palace , awaiting you , returned the Captain for she saw you coming long before you arrived . 
That is strange ! said Tip , wondering . 
Not at all , answered the Scarecrow , for Glinda the Good is a mighty Sorceress , and nothing that goes on in the Land of Oz escapes her notice . 
I suppose she knows why we came as well as we do ourselves . 
Then what was the use of our coming ? asked Jack , stupidly . 
To prove you are a Pumpkinhead ! retorted the Scarecrow . 
But , if the Sorceress expects us , we must not keep her waiting . 
Line Art Drawing So they all clambered out of the sofas and followed the Captain toward the palace even the Saw Horse taking his place in the queer procession . 
Upon her throne of finely wrought gold sat Glinda , and she could scarcely repress a smile as her peculiar visitors entered and bowed before her . 
I know it , said Glinda . 
They also threatened to destroy me , as well as all the good friends and allies you see before you , continued the Scarecrow . 
and had we not managed to escape their clutches our days would long since have ended . 
I know it , repeated Glinda . 
Therefore I have come to beg your assistance , resumed the Scarecrow , for I believe you are always glad to succor the unfortunate and oppressed . 
That is true , replied the Sorceress , slowly . 
But the Emerald City is now ruled by General Jinjur , who has caused herself to be proclaimed Queen . 
What right have I to oppose her ? Why , she stole the throne from me , said the Scarecrow . 
And how came you to possess the throne ? asked Glinda . 
I got it from the Wizard of Oz , and by the choice of the people , returned the Scarecrow , uneasy at such questioning . 
And where did the Wizard get it ? she continued gravely . 
I am told he took it from Pastoria , the former King , said the Scarecrow , becoming confused under the intent look of the Sorceress . 
Then , declared Glinda , the throne of the Emerald City belongs neither to you nor to Jinjur , but to this Pastoria from whom the Wizard usurped it . 
That is true , acknowledged the Scarecrow , humbly but Pastoria is now dead and gone , and some one must rule in his place . 
Pastoria had a daughter , who is the rightful heir to the throne of the Emerald City . 
Did you know that ? questioned the Sorceress . 
No , replied the Scarecrow . 
But if the girl still lives I will not stand in her way . 
It will satisfy me as well to have Jinjur turned out , as an impostor , as to regain the throne myself . 
In fact , it isn't much fun to be King , especially if one has good brains . 
I have known for some time that I am fitted to occupy a far more exalted position . 
But where is the girl who owns the throne , and what is her name ? Her name is Ozma , answered Glinda . 
But where she is I have tried in vain to discover . 
That is strange , interrupted the Woggle Bug , pompously . 
I have been informed that the Wonderful Wizard of Oz was nothing more than a humbug ! Nonsense ! exclaimed the Scarecrow , much provoked by this speech . 
Didn't he give me a wonderful set of brains ? There's no humbug about my heart , announced the Tin Woodman , glaring indignantly at the Woggle Bug . 
Perhaps I was misinformed , stammered the Insect , shrinking back I never knew the Wizard personally . 
Well , we did , retorted the Scarecrow , and he was a very great Wizard , I assure you . 
That is the most sensible speech you've made , said the Tin Woodman . 
I must really make another effort to discover where this girl is hidden , resumed the Sorceress , thoughtfully . 
This book I will read carefully tonight , and try to single out the acts that may guide us in discovering the lost Ozma . 
In the meantime , pray amuse yourselves in my palace and command my servants as if they were your own . 
I will grant you another audience tomorrow . 
He ate beans with a knife , made three secret visits to old Mombi , and limped slightly on his left foot . 
Ah ! that last is certainly suspicious ! exclaimed the Pumpkinhead . 
Not necessarily , said the Scarecrow . 
he may , have had corns . 
Now , it seems to me his eating beans with a knife is more suspicious . 
Perhaps it is a polite custom in Omaha , from which great country the Wizard originally came , suggested the Tin Woodman . 
It may be , admitted the Scarecrow . 
But why , asked Glinda , did he make three secret visits to old Mombi ? Ah ! Why , indeed ! echoed the Woggle Bug , impressively . 
We know that the Wizard taught the old woman many of his tricks of magic , continued Glinda and this he would not have done had she not assisted him in some way . 
For , if the people knew that she lived , they would quickly make her their Queen and restore her to her rightful position . 
An able argument ! cried the Scarecrow . 
I have no doubt that Mombi was mixed up in this wicked business . 
But how does that knowledge help us ? We must find Mombi , replied Glinda , and force her to tell where the girl is hidden . 
Mombi is now with Queen Jinjur , in the Emerald , City said Tip . 
It was she who threw so many obstacles in our pathway , and made Jinjur threaten to destroy my friends and give me back into the old witch's power . 
Then , decided Glinda , I will march with my army to the Emerald City , and take Mombi prisoner . 
After that we can , perhaps , force her to tell the truth about Ozma . 
She is a terrible old woman ! remarked Tip , with a shudder at the thought of Mombi's black kettle and obstinate , too . 
I am quite obstinate myself , returned the Sorceress , with a sweet smile . 
so I do not fear Mombi in the least . 
Today I will make all necessary preparations , and we will march upon the Emerald City at daybreak tomorrow . 
Line Art Drawing The Tin Woodman Plucks a Rose The Army of Glinda the Good looked very grand and imposing when it assembled at daybreak before the palace gates . 
The uniforms of the girl soldiers were pretty and of gay colors , and their silver tipped spears were bright and glistening , the long shafts being inlaid with mother of pearl . 
All the officers wore sharp , gleaming swords , and shields edged with peacock feathers and it really seemed that no foe could by any possibility defeat such a brilliant army . 
The Gump flew along slowly at a point directly over the palanquin in which rode the Sorceress . 
Be careful , said the Line Art Drawing Tin Woodman to the Scarecrow , who was leaning far over the side to look at the army below . 
It wouldn't matter , remarked the educated Woggle Bug . 
he can't get broke so long as he is stuffed with money . 
Didn't I ask you began Tip , in a reproachful voice . 
You did ! said the Woggle Bug , promptly . 
And I beg your pardon . 
I will really try to restrain myself . 
You'd better , declared the boy . 
That is , if you wish to travel in our company . 
Ah ! I couldn't bear to part with you now , murmured the Insect , feelingly so Tip let the subject drop . 
The army moved steadily on , but night had fallen before they came to the walls of the Emerald City . 
By the dim light of the new moon , however , Glinda's forces silently surrounded the city and pitched their tents of scarlet silk upon the greensward . 
The tent of the Sorceress was larger than the others , and was composed of pure white silk , with scarlet banners flying above it . 
A tent was also pitched for the Scarecrow's party and when these preparations had been made , with military precision and quickness , the army retired to rest . 
Great was the amazement of Queen Jinjur next morning when her soldiers came running to inform her of the vast army surrounding them . 
She at once climbed to a high tower of the royal palace and saw banners waving in every direction and the great white tent of Glinda standing directly before the gates . 
Not so , returned Jinjur , more bravely . 
The enemy is still outside the walls , so we must try to gain time by engaging them in parley . 
Go you with a flag of truce to Glinda and ask her why she has dared to invade my dominions , and what are her demands . 
So the girl passed through the gates , bearing a white flag to show she was on a mission of peace , and came to Glinda's tent . 
Tell your Queen , said the Sorceress to the girl , that she must deliver up to me old Mombi , to be my prisoner . 
If this is done I will not molest her farther . 
But she sent for Mombi , and told her what Glinda had said . 
I see trouble ahead for all of us , muttered the old witch , after glancing into a magic mirror she carried in her pocket . 
But we may even yet escape by deceiving this sorceress , clever as she thinks herself . 
Don't you think it will be safer for me to deliver you into her hands ? asked Jinjur , nervously . 
If you do , it will cost you the throne of the Emerald City ! answered the witch , positively . 
But if you will let me have my own way , I can save us both very easily . 
So Mombi called Jellia Jamb to her , and performed a certain magical rite with which she was familiar . 
Now , said old Mombi to the Queen , let your soldiers deliver up this girl to Glinda . 
She will think she has the real Mombi in her power , and so will return immediately to her own country in the South . 
Therefore Jellia , hobbling along like an aged Line Art Drawing woman , was led from the city gates and taken before Glinda . 
Here is the person you demanded , said one of the guards , and our Queen now begs you will go away , as you promised , and leave us in peace . 
That I will surely do , replied Glinda , much pleased if this is really the person she seems to be . 
It is certainly old Mombi , said the guard , who believed she was speaking the truth and then Jinjur's soldiers returned within the city's gates . 
The Sorceress quickly summoned the Scarecrow and his friends to her tent , and began to question the supposed Mombi about the lost girl Ozma . 
But Jellia knew nothing at all of this affair , and presently she grew so nervous under the questioning that she gave way and began to weep , to Glinda's great astonishment . 
Here is some foolish trickery ! said the Sorceress , her eyes flashing with anger . 
But Glinda , sweet and fair though she was , understood magic better than any other person in the Land of Oz . 
Why , it's Jellia Jamb ! cried the Scarecrow , recognizing in the girl one of his old friends . 
It's our interpreter ! said the Pumpkinhead , smiling pleasantly . 
Then Jellia was forced to tell of the trick Mombi Line Art Drawing had played and she also begged Glinda's protection , which the Sorceress readily granted . 
But Glinda was now really angry , and sent word to Jinjur that the fraud was discovered and she must deliver up the real Mombi or suffer terrible consequences . 
Jinjur was prepared for this message , for the witch well understood , when her natural form was thrust upon her , that Glinda had discovered her trickery . 
But the wicked old creature had already thought up a new deception , and had made Jinjur promise to carry it out . 
So the Queen said to Glinda's messenger Tell your mistress that I cannot find Mombi anywhere , but that Glinda is welcome to enter the city and search herself for the old woman . 
Glinda agreed to these terms , well knowing that Mombi was somewhere within the city walls . 
Tip walked by the side of the Sorceress , for Glinda had conceived a great liking for the boy . 
It was a clever idea , and a trick Glinda did not suspect so several precious hours were spent in a vain search for Mombi . 
The Scarecrow and his comrades happened to be searching in the garden of the palace just then , and they turned with disappointment to obey Glinda's command . 
For no one knew the rose and Mombi to be one , and now that she was without the gates of the City her chances of escaping altogether from Glinda were much improved . 
But there is no hurry , thought Mombi . 
I will wait awhile and enjoy the humiliation of this Sorceress when she finds I have outwitted her . 
Line Art Drawing For some reason , said Glinda , we have failed to find this cunning old Mombi so I fear our expedition will prove a failure . 
Let us do something else . 
Something else must really be done , replied Glinda , with a smile . 
yet I cannot understand how I have been defeated so easily by an old Witch who knows far less of magic than I do myself . 
While we are on the ground I believe it would be wise for us to conquer the Emerald City for Princess Ozma , and find the girl afterward , said the Scarecrow . 
And while the girl remains hidden I will gladly rule in her place , for I understand the business of ruling much better than Jinjur does . 
But I have promised not to molest Jinjur , objected Glinda . 
Suppose you all return with me to my kingdom or Empire , rather , said the Tin Woodman , politely including the entire party in a royal wave of his arm . 
It will give me great pleasure to entertain you in my castle , where there is room enough and to spare . 
And if any of you wish to be nickel plated , my valet will do it free of all expense . 
While the Woodman was speaking Glinda's eyes had been noting the rose in his button hole , and now she imagined she saw the big red leaves of the flower tremble slightly . 
This quickly aroused her suspicions , and in a moment more the Sorceress had decided that the seeming rose was nothing else than a transformation of old Mombi . 
But Glinda had not only equal cunning , but far more experience than the Witch . 
The Scarecrow and his friends were greatly surprised at Glinda's actions for none of them had noted the Shadow . 
But the Sorceress said to them Remain perfectly quiet , all of you ! For the old Witch is even now with us in this tent , and I hope to capture her . 
Glinda did not hesitate to follow . 
She sprang upon the back of the Saw Horse and cried Now you shall prove that you have a right to be alive ! Run run run ! The Saw Horse ran . 
Like a flash he followed the Griffin , his wooden legs moving so fast that they twinkled like the rays of a star . 
Before our friends could recover from their surprise both the Griffin and the Saw Horse had dashed out of sight . 
Come ! Let us follow ! cried the Scarecrow . 
They ran to the place where the Gump was lying and quickly tumbled aboard . 
Fly ! commanded Tip , eagerly . 
Where to ? asked the Gump , in its calm voice . 
I don't know , returned Tip , who was very nervous at the delay but if you will mount into the air I think we can discover which way Glinda has gone . 
Line Art Drawing Very well , returned the Gump , quietly and it spread its great wings and mounted high into the air . 
Far away , across the meadows , they could now see two tiny specks , speeding one after the other and they knew these specks must be the Griffin and the Saw Horse . 
So Tip called the Gump's attention to them and bade the creature try to overtake the Witch and the Sorceress . 
But , swift as was the Gump's flight , the pursued and pursuer moved more swiftly yet , and within a few moments were blotted out against the dim horizon . 
Let us continue to follow them , nevertheless , said the Scarecrow . 
for the Land of Oz is of small extent , and sooner or later they must both come to a halt . 
Old Mombi had thought herself very wise to choose the form of a Griffin , for its legs were exceedingly fleet and its strength more enduring than that of other animals . 
But she had not reckoned on the untiring energy of the Saw Horse , whose wooden limbs could run for days without slacking their speed . 
Therefore , after an hour's hard running , the Griffin's breath began to fail , and it panted and gasped painfully , and moved more slowly than before . 
Then it reached the edge of the desert and began racing across the deep sands . 
But its tired feet sank far into the sand , and in a few minutes the Griffin fell forward , completely exhausted , and lay still upon the desert waste . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
Princess Ozma of Oz You are my prisoner , and it is useless for you to struggle any longer , said Glinda , in her soft , sweet voice . 
Lie still a moment , and rest yourself , and then I will carry you back to my tent . 
Why do you seek me ? asked Mombi , still scarce able to speak plainly for lack of breath . 
I defy you ! croaked the old hag . 
You dare not harm me ! Just then the Gump flew up to them and alighted upon the desert sands beside Glinda . 
Our friends were delighted to find that Mombi had finally been captured , and after a hurried consultation it was decided they should all return to the camp in the Gump . 
So the Saw Horse was tossed aboard , and then Glinda still holding an end of the golden thread that was around Mombi's neck , forced her prisoner to climb into the sofas . 
The others now followed , and Tip gave the word to the Gump to return . 
The army hailed Glinda's return with loud cheers , and the party of friends soon gathered again in the royal tent , which had been neatly repaired during their absence . 
The Witch looked at Glinda defiantly , but said not a word . 
Answer me ! cried the Sorceress . 
But still Mombi remained silent . 
Perhaps she doesn't know , remarked Jack . 
I beg you will keep quiet , said Tip . 
You might spoil everything with your foolishness . 
Very well , dear father ! returned the Pumpkinhead , meekly . 
How glad I am to be a Woggle Bug ! murmured the Highly Magnified Insect , softly . 
No one can expect wisdom to flow from a pumpkin . 
Well , said the Scarecrow , what shall we do to make Mombi speak ? Unless she tells us what we wish to know her capture will do us no good at all . 
Suppose we try kindness , suggested the Tin Woodman . 
I've heard that anyone can be conquered with kindness , no matter how ugly they may be . 
At this the Witch turned to glare upon him so horribly that the Tin Woodman shrank back abashed . 
Glinda had been carefully considering what to do , and now she turned to Mombi and said You will gain nothing , I assure you , by thus defying us . 
For I am determined to learn the truth about the girl Ozma , and unless you tell me all that you know , I will certainly put you to death . 
Oh , no ! Don't do that ! exclaimed the Tin Woodman . 
It would be an awful thing to kill anyone even old Mombi ! But it is merely a threat , returned Glinda . 
I shall not put Mombi to death , because she will prefer to tell me the truth . 
Oh , I see ! said the tin man , much relieved . 
Suppose I tell you all that you wish to know , . 
said Mombi , speaking so suddenly that she startled them all . 
Then I would become a helpless old woman ! But you would be alive , suggested the Pumpkinhead , consolingly . 
Do try to keep silent ! said Tip , nervously . 
I'll try , responded Jack but you will admit that it's a good thing to be alive . 
Especially if one happens to be Thoroughly Educated , added the Woggle Bug , nodding approval . 
You may make your choice , Glinda said to old Mombi , between death if you remain silent , and the loss of your magical powers if you tell me the truth . 
But I think you will prefer to live . 
Mombi cast an uneasy glance at the Sorceress , and saw that she was in earnest , and not to be trifled with . 
So she replied , slowly I will answer your questions . 
That is what I expected , said Glinda , pleasantly . 
You have chosen wisely , I assure you . 
She then motioned to one of her Captains , who brought her a beautiful golden casket . 
Now , said she , I will ask my first question Why did the Wizard pay you three visits ? Because I would not come to him , answered Mombi . 
That is no answer , said Glinda , sternly . 
Well , returned Mombi , with downcast eyes , he visited me to learn the way I make tea biscuits . 
Look up ! commanded the Sorceress . 
What is the color of my pearl ? demanded Glinda . 
Why it is black ! replied the old Witch , in a tone of wonder . 
Then you have told me a falsehood ! cried Glinda , angrily . 
Only when the truth is spoken will my magic pearl remain a pure white in color . 
That is what I thought , declared Glinda , calmly . 
What did he give you for thus serving him ? He taught me all the magical tricks he knew . 
Some were good tricks , and some were only frauds but I have remained faithful to my promise . 
What did you do with the girl ? asked Glinda and at this question everyone bent forward and listened eagerly for the reply . 
I enchanted her , answered Mombi . 
In what way ? I transformed her into into Into what ? demanded Glinda , as the Witch hesitated . 
Into a boy ! said Mombi , in a low tone . 
A boy ! echoed every voice and then , because they knew that this old woman had reared Tip from childhood , all eyes were turned to where the boy stood . 
Yes , said the old Witch , nodding her head that is the Princess Ozma the child brought to me by the Wizard who stole her father's throne . 
That is the rightful ruler of the Emerald City ! and she pointed her long bony finger straight at the boy . 
I ! cried Tip , in amazement . 
Why , I'm no Princess Ozma I'm not a girl ! Glinda smiled , and going to Tip she took his small brown hand within her dainty white one . 
Full page line art drawing . 
MOMBI POINTED HER LONG , BONY FINGER AT THE BOY You are not a girl just now said she , gently , because Mombi transformed you into a boy . 
But you were born a girl , and also a Princess so you must resume your proper form , that you may become Queen of the Emerald City . 
Oh , let Jinjur be the Queen ! exclaimed Tip , ready to cry . 
And , to be honest with you , I've always considered girls nicer than boys . 
They're just as nice , anyway , added the Scarecrow , patting Tip affectionately upon the head . 
And they are equally good students , proclaimed the Woggle Bug . 
I should like to become your tutor , when you are transformed into a girl again . 
and I shall not be sorry to escape the relationship . 
Then he added , hesitatingly , as he turned to Line Art Drawing Glinda I might try it for awhile , just to see how it seems , you know . 
But if I don't like being a girl you must promise to change me into a boy again . 
Really , said the Sorceress , that is beyond my magic . 
I never deal in transformations , for they are not honest , and no respectable sorceress likes to make things appear to be what they are not . 
Only unscrupulous witches use the art , and therefore I must ask Mombi to effect your release from her charm , and restore you to your proper form . 
It will be the last opportunity she will have to practice magic . 
So the Witch consented to effect the transformation , and preparations for the event were at once made . 
Glinda ordered her own royal couch to be placed in the center of the tent . 
It was piled high with cushions covered with rose colored silk , and from a golden railing above hung many folds of pink gossamer , completely concealing the interior of the couch . 
The first act of the Witch was to make the boy drink a potion which quickly sent him into a deep and dreamless sleep . 
The Witch squatted upon the ground and kindled a tiny fire of dried herbs , which she drew from her bosom . 
Full page line art drawing . 
MOMBI AT HER MAGICAL INCANTATIONS . 
And now the incantation seemed complete , for the Witch stood upright and cried the one word Yeowa ! in a loud voice . 
Glinda walked to the canopy and parted the silken hangings . 
Then she bent over the cushions , reached out her hand , and from the couch arose the form of a young girl , fresh and beautiful as a May morning . 
Her eyes sparkled as two diamonds , and her lips were tinted like a tourmaline . 
All adown her back floated tresses of ruddy gold , with a slender jeweled circlet confining them at the brow . 
Her robes of silken gauze floated around her like a cloud , and dainty satin slippers shod her feet . 
At this exquisite vision Tip's old comrades stared in wonder for the space of a full minute , and then every head bent low in honest admiration of the lovely Princess Ozma . 
The girl herself cast one look into Glinda's bright face , which glowed with pleasure and satisfaction , and then turned upon the others . 
Speaking the words with sweet diffidence , she said I hope none of you will care less for me than you did before . 
I'm just the same Tip , you know only only Only you're different ! said the Pumpkinhead and everyone thought it was the wisest speech he had ever made . 
Line Art Drawing Full page line art drawing . 
It is the only thing we can do . 
Not so , answered the Scarecrow . 
We still have the Gump , and the Gump can still fly The Sorceress turned quickly at this speech , and her face now wore a bright smile . 
You are right , she exclaimed , and certainly have reason to be proud of your brains . 
Glinda and Princess Ozma mounted first , and sat upon the sofas . 
Then the Scarecrow and his friends climbed aboard , and still there was room for a Captain and three soldiers , which Glinda considered sufficient for a guard . 
At once the men of the Emerald City cast off their aprons . 
And it is said that the women were so tired eating of their husbands' cooking that they Line Art Drawing all hailed the conquest of Jinjur with Joy . 
Meanwhile the Army of Revolt was disbanded and the girls sent home to their mothers . 
On promise of good behavior Jinjur was likewise released . 
Ozma made the loveliest Queen the Emerald City had ever known and , although she was so young and inexperienced , she ruled her people with wisdom and Justice . 
The girl , in her gratitude to the Gump for its services , offered the creature any reward it might name . 
Then , replied the Gump , please take me to pieces . 
I did not wish to be brought to life , and I am greatly ashamed of my conglomerate personality . 
Therefore I beg to be dispersed . 
So Ozma ordered the Gump taken apart . 
The antlered head was again hung over the mantle piece in the hall , and the sofas were untied and placed in the reception parlors . 
You might think that was the end of the Gump and so it was , as a flying machine . 
The Saw Horse , being Ozma's personal property , was tenderly cared for and often she rode the queer creature along the streets of the Emerald City . 
Jack Pumpkinhead remained with Ozma to the end of his days and he did not spoil as soon as he had feared , although he always remained as stupid as ever . 
The Woggle Bug tried to teach him several arts and sciences but Jack was so poor a student that any attempt to educate him was soon abandoned . 
After Glinda's army had marched back home , and peace was restored to the Emerald City , the Tin Woodman announced his intention to return to his own Kingdom of the Winkies . 
Thank you , replied Ozma . 
Some day I may accept the invitation . 
But what is to become of the Scarecrow ? I shall return with my friend the Tin Woodman , said the stuffed one , seriously . 
We have decided never to be parted in the future . 
And I have made the Scarecrow my Royal Treasurer , explained the Tin Woodman . 
For it has occurred to me that it is a good thing to have a Royal Treasurer who is made of money . 
What do you think ? I think , said the little Queen , smiling , that your friend must be the richest man in all the world . 
I am , returned the Scarecrow . 
but not on account of my money . 
For I consider brains far superior to money , in every way . 
At the same time , declared the Tin Woodman , you must acknowledge that a good heart is a thing that brains can not create , and that money can not buy . 
Perhaps , after all , it is I who am the richest man in all the world . 
