The Girl in the Chicken Coop . 
Tiktok , the Machine Man . 
Dorothy Opens the Dinner Pail . 
Ozma of Oz to the Rescue . 
The Royal Family of Ev . 
The Giant with the Hammer . 
Dorothy Tries to be Brave . 
Billina Frightens the Nome King . 
Purple , Green and Gold . 
The Scarecrow Wins the Fight . 
The Fate of the Tin Woodman . 
Dorothy's Magic Belt Author's Note My friends the children are responsible for this new Oz Book , as they were for the last one , which was called The Land of Oz . 
And I wish I could , for I enjoy writing these stories just as much as the children say they enjoy reading them . 
One little friend , who read this story before it was printed , said to me Billina is REAL OZZY , Mr. Baum , and so are Tiktok and the Hungry Tiger . 
If this judgment is unbiased and correct , and the little folks find this new story real Ozzy , I shall be very glad indeed that I wrote it . 
But perhaps I shall get some more of those very welcome letters from my readers , telling me just how they like Ozma of Oz . 
I hope so , anyway . 
The Girl in the Chicken Coop The wind blew hard and joggled the water of the ocean , sending ripples across its surface . 
Then the wind pushed the edges of the ripples until they became waves , and shoved the waves around until they became billows . 
The billows rolled dreadfully high higher even than the tops of houses . 
Some of them , indeed , rolled as high as the tops of tall trees , and seemed like mountains and the gulfs between the great billows were like deep valleys . 
At the time the wind began to blow , a ship was sailing far out upon the waters . 
And the clouds were so thick in the sky that the sunlight couldn't get through them so that the day grew dark as night , which added to the terrors of the storm . 
Now , among these passengers was a little Kansas girl named Dorothy Gale , who was going with her Uncle Henry to Australia , to visit some relatives they had never before seen . 
Dorothy was eager to go with him on this journey , and Uncle Henry thought she would be good company and help cheer him up so he decided to take her along . 
Of course we'll have to stay in the cabin , she said to Uncle Henry and the other passengers , and keep as quiet as possible until the storm is over . 
For the Captain says if we go on deck we may be blown overboard . 
Dorothy had almost fallen asleep when she was aroused with a start to find that Uncle Henry was missing . 
In that case he would be in great danger unless he instantly came down again . 
The fact was that Uncle Henry had gone to lie down in his little sleeping berth , but Dorothy did not know that . 
With a scream like that of an angry giant it tore away the ropes that held the coop and lifted it high into the air , with Dorothy still clinging to the slats . 
Dorothy had a good ducking , you may be sure , but she didn't loose her presence of mind even for a second . 
It was far , far away , by this time . 
Perhaps no one on board had yet missed her , or knew of her strange adventure . 
Down into a valley between the waves the coop swept her , and when she climbed another crest the ship looked like a toy boat , it was such a long way off . 
Well , I declare ! she exclaimed , with a laugh . 
It was lucky for Dorothy , I think , that the storm subsided otherwise , brave though she was , I fear she might have perished . 
The floor was damp and she was herself wringing wet , but fortunately this was a warm climate and she did not feel at all cold . 
The Yellow Hen A strange noise awoke Dorothy , who opened her eyes to find that day had dawned and the sun was shining brightly in a clear sky . 
Kut kut kut , ka daw kut ! Kut kut kut , ka daw kut ! Ah here again was the strange noise that had awakened her . 
Also she began to remember that she was a waif of the storm , adrift upon a treacherous and unknown sea . 
Kut kut kut , ka daw w w kut ! What's that ? cried Dorothy , starting to her feet . 
Dear me ! she exclaimed , in surprise have YOU been here all night , too ? Of course , answered the hen , fluttering her wings and yawning . 
When the coop blew away from the ship I clung fast to this corner , with claws and beak , for I knew if I fell into the water I'd surely be drowned . 
Indeed , I nearly drowned , as it was , with all that water washing over me . 
I never was so wet before in my life ! Yes , agreed Dorothy , it was pretty wet , for a time , I know . 
But do you feel comfor'ble now ? Not very . 
The sun has helped to dry my feathers , as it has your dress , and I feel better since I laid my morning egg . 
But what's to become of us , I should like to know , afloat on this big pond ? I'd like to know that , too , said Dorothy . 
But , tell me how does it happen that you are able to talk ? I thought hens could only cluck and cackle . 
Why , as for that , answered the yellow hen thoughtfully , I've clucked and cackled all my life , and never spoken a word before this morning , that I can remember . 
But when you asked a question , a minute ago , it seemed the most natural thing in the world to answer you . 
So I spoke , and I seem to keep on speaking , just as you and other human beings do . 
Strange , isn't it ? Very , replied Dorothy . 
If we were in the Land of Oz , I wouldn't think it so queer , because many of the animals can talk in that fairy country . 
But out here in the ocean must be a good long way from Oz . 
How is my grammar ? asked the yellow hen , anxiously . 
Do I speak quite properly , in your judgment ? Yes , said Dorothy , you do very well , for a beginner . 
I'm glad to know that , continued the yellow hen , in a confidential tone because , if one is going to talk , it's best to talk correctly . 
The red rooster has often said that my cluck and my cackle were quite perfect and now it's a comfort to know I am talking properly . 
I'm beginning to get hungry , remarked Dorothy . 
It's breakfast time but there's no breakfast . 
You may have my egg , said the yellow hen . 
I don't care for it , you know . 
Don't you want to hatch it ? asked the little girl , in surprise . 
No , indeed I never care to hatch eggs unless I've a nice snug nest , in some quiet place , with a baker's dozen of eggs under me . 
That's thirteen , you know , and it's a lucky number for hens . 
So you may as well eat this egg . 
Oh , I couldn't POSS'BLY eat it , unless it was cooked , exclaimed Dorothy . 
But I'm much obliged for your kindness , just the same . 
Don't mention it , my dear , answered the hen , calmly , and began pruning her feathers . 
For a moment Dorothy stood looking out over the wide sea . 
It has always been my pride to lay a fresh egg every morning , except when I'm moulting . 
I never feel like having my morning cackle till the egg is properly laid , and without the chance to cackle I would not be happy . 
It's strange , said the girl , reflectively but as I'm not a hen I can't be 'spected to understand that . 
Certainly not , my dear . 
Then Dorothy fell silent again . 
The yellow hen was some company , and a bit of comfort , too but it was dreadfully lonely out on the big ocean , nevertheless . 
Why , we are not far from land ! exclaimed the hen . 
Where ? Where is it ? cried Dorothy , jumping up in great excitement . 
Over there a little way , answered the hen , nodding her head in a certain direction . 
We seem to be drifting toward it , so that before noon we ought to find ourselves upon dry land again . 
So shall I , answered her companion . 
There is nothing in the world so miserable as a wet hen . 
The land , which they seemed to be rapidly approaching , since it grew more distinct every minute , was quite beautiful as viewed by the little girl in the floating hen coop . 
But there were no houses to be seen , nor any sign of people who might inhabit this unknown land . 
I hope we shall find something to eat , said Dorothy , looking eagerly at the pretty beach toward which they drifted . 
It's long past breakfast time , now . 
I'm a trifle hungry , myself , declared the yellow hen . 
Why don't you eat the egg ? asked the child . 
You don't need to have your food cooked , as I do . 
Do you take me for a cannibal ? cried the hen , indignantly . 
My name is Bill , said the yellow hen , somewhat gruffly . 
Bill ! Why , that's a boy's name . 
What difference does that make ? You're a lady hen , aren't you ? Of course . 
So Bill I've always been called , and Bill is my name . 
But it's all wrong , you know , declared Dorothy , earnestly and , if you don't mind , I shall call you 'Billina . 
Putting the 'eena' on the end makes it a girl's name , you see . 
Oh , I don't mind it in the least , returned the yellow hen . 
It doesn't matter at all what you call me , so long as I know the name means ME . 
MY name is Dorothy Gale just Dorothy to my friends and Miss Gale to strangers . 
You may call me Dorothy , if you like . 
We're getting very near the shore . 
Do you suppose it is too deep for me to wade the rest of the way ? Wait a few minutes longer . 
The sunshine is warm and pleasant , and we are in no hurry . 
But my feet are all wet and soggy , said the girl . 
My dress is dry enough , but I won't feel real comfor'ble till I get my feet dried . 
She waited , however , as the hen advised , and before long the big wooden coop grated gently on the sandy beach and the dangerous voyage was over . 
It did not take the castaways long to reach the shore , you may be sure . 
The yellow hen flew to the sands at once , but Dorothy had to climb over the high slats . 
What are you doing ? asked Dorothy . 
Getting my breakfast , of course , murmured the hen , busily pecking away . 
What do you find ? inquired the girl , curiously . 
Oh , some fat red ants , and some sand bugs , and once in a while a tiny crab . 
They are very sweet and nice , I assure you . 
How dreadful ! exclaimed Dorothy , in a shocked voice . 
What is dreadful ? asked the hen , lifting her head to gaze with one bright eye at her companion . 
Why , eating live things , and horrid bugs , and crawly ants . 
We don't ! said Dorothy . 
You do , indeed , answered Billina . 
You eat lambs and sheep and cows and pigs and even chickens . 
But we cook 'em , said Dorothy , triumphantly . 
What difference does that make ? A good deal , said the girl , in a graver tone . 
I can't just 'splain the diff'rence , but it's there . 
And , anyhow , we never eat such dreadful things as BUGS . 
But you eat the chickens that eat the bugs , retorted the yellow hen , with an odd cackle . 
So you are just as bad as we chickens are . 
What Billina said was true enough , and it almost took away her appetite for breakfast . 
As for the yellow hen , she continued to peck away at the sand busily , and seemed quite contented with her bill of fare . 
Finally , down near the water's edge , Billina stuck her bill deep into the sand , and then drew back and shivered . 
I struck metal , that time , and it nearly broke my beak . 
It prob'bly was a rock , said Dorothy , carelessly . 
I know a rock from metal , I guess , said the hen . 
There's a different feel to it . 
But there couldn't be any metal on this wild , deserted seashore , persisted the girl . 
Then , thrusting in her hand , she pulled the thing out , and discovered it to be a large sized golden key rather old , but still bright and of perfect shape . 
What did I tell you ? cried the hen , with a cackle of triumph . 
I think it is pure gold , and it must have lain hidden in the sand for a long time . 
How do you suppose it came there , Billina ? And what do you suppose this mysterious key unlocks ? I can't say , replied the hen . 
You ought to know more about locks and keys than I do . 
There was no sign of any house in that part of the country , and she reasoned that every key must fit a lock and every lock must have a purpose . 
Perhaps the key had been lost by somebody who lived far away , but had wandered on this very shore . 
Musing on these things the girl put the key in the pocket of her dress and then slowly drew on her shoes and stockings , which the sun had fully dried . 
I b'lieve , Billina , she said , I'll have a look 'round , and see if I can find some breakfast . 
What does it say ? she asked the yellow hen , who trotted along beside her in a rather dignified fashion . 
How should I know ? returned the hen . 
Oh ! Can't you ? Certainly not I've never been to school , you know . 
Well , I have , admitted Dorothy but the letters are big and far apart , and it's hard to spell out the words . 
What do you suppose the Wheelers are ? Folks that wheel , I guess . 
They must have wheelbarrows , or baby cabs or hand carts , said Dorothy . 
Perhaps they're automobiles , suggested the yellow hen . 
There is no need to beware of baby cabs and wheelbarrows but automobiles are dangerous things . 
Several of my friends have been run over by them . 
It can't be auto'biles , replied the girl , for this is a new , wild country , without even trolley cars or tel'phones . 
The people here haven't been discovered yet , I'm sure that is , if there ARE any people . 
So I don't b'lieve there CAN be any auto'biles , Billina . 
Perhaps not , admitted the yellow hen . 
Where are you going now ? Over to those trees , to see if I can find some fruit or nuts , answered Dorothy . 
She tramped across the sand , skirting the foot of one of the little rocky hills that stood near , and soon reached the edge of the forest . 
At first she was greatly disappointed , because the nearer trees were all punita , or cotton wood or eucalyptus , and bore no fruit or nuts at all . 
But , bye and bye , when she was almost in despair , the little girl came upon two trees that promised to furnish her with plenty of food . 
The leaves of this tree were all paper napkins , and it presented a very pleasing appearance to the hungry little girl . 
Dorothy was delighted , and even the yellow hen acknowledged that she was surprised . 
The little girl stood on tip toe and picked one of the nicest and biggest lunch boxes , and then she sat down upon the ground and eagerly opened it . 
Inside she found , nicely wrapped in white papers , a ham sandwich , a piece of sponge cake , a pickle , a slice of new cheese and an apple . 
A lunch isn't zactly breakfast , she said to Billina , who sat beside her curiously watching . 
But when one is hungry one can eat even supper in the morning , and not complain . 
I hope your lunch box was perfectly ripe , observed the yellow hen , in a anxious tone . 
So much sickness is caused by eating green things . 
Oh , I'm sure it was ripe , declared Dorothy , all , that is , 'cept the pickle , and a pickle just HAS to be green , Billina . 
But everything tasted perfectly splendid , and I'd rather have it than a church picnic . 
And now I think I'll pick a dinner pail , to have when I get hungry again , and then we'll start out and 'splore the country , and see where we are . 
Haven't you any idea what country this is ? inquired Billina . 
But listen I'm quite sure it's a fairy country , or such things as lunch boxes and dinner pails wouldn't be growing upon trees . 
Besides , Billina , being a hen , you wouldn't be able to talk in any civ'lized country , like Kansas , where no fairies live at all . 
Perhaps we're in the Land of Oz , said the hen , thoughtfully . 
No , that can't be , answered the little girl because I've been to the Land of Oz , and it's all surrounded by a horrid desert that no one can cross . 
Then how did you get away from there again ? asked Billina . 
I had a pair of silver shoes , that carried me through the air but I lost them , said Dorothy . 
Ah , indeed , remarked the yellow hen , in a tone of unbelief . 
Anyhow , resumed the girl , there is no seashore near the Land of Oz , so this must surely be some other fairy country . 
While she was speaking she selected a bright and pretty dinner pail that seemed to have a stout handle , and picked it from its branch . 
Then , accompanied by the yellow hen , she walked out of the shadow of the trees toward the sea shore . 
Run ! screamed the yellow hen , fluttering away in great fright . 
It's a Wheeler ! A Wheeler ? exclaimed Dorothy . 
They're sure to catch us ! panted the girl , who was still carrying the heavy dinner pail she had picked . 
I can't run much farther , Billina . 
The yellow hen was even now fluttering among the rocks , and Dorothy followed as best she could , half climbing and half tumbling up the rough and rugged steep . 
Dorothy now heard the yellow hen laughing , in her cackling , henny way . 
Don't hurry , my dear , cried Billina . 
They can't follow us among these rocks , so we're safe enough now . 
Dorothy stopped at once and sat down upon a broad boulder , for she was all out of breath . 
But they circled all around the little hill , so the child and Billina were fast prisoners and could not come down without being captured . 
I'm a stranger in your country , and have done you no harm . 
No harm ! cried one who seemed to be their leader . 
Did you not pick our lunch boxes and dinner pails ? Have you not a stolen dinner pail still in your hand ? I only picked one of each , she answered . 
I was hungry , and I didn't know the trees were yours . 
That is no excuse , retorted the leader , who was clothed in a most gorgeous suit . 
It is the law here that whoever picks a dinner pail without our permission must die immediately . 
Don't you believe him , said Billina . 
I'm sure the trees do not belong to these awful creatures . 
They are fit for any mischief , and it's my opinion they would try to kill us just the same if you hadn't picked a dinner pail . 
I think so , too , agreed Dorothy . 
But what shall we do now ? Stay where we are , advised the yellow hen . 
We are safe from the Wheelers until we starve to death , anyhow and before that time comes a good many things can happen . 
Tiktok the Machine Man After an hour or so most of the band of Wheelers rolled back into the forest , leaving only three of their number to guard the hill . 
The path came to an end just beside this great rock , and for a moment it puzzled the girl to know why the path had been made at all . 
Why , that crack in the rock , just facing you , replied Billina , whose little round eyes were very sharp and seemed to see everything . 
It runs up one side and down the other , and across the top and the bottom . 
What does ? Why , the crack . 
So I think it must be a door of rock , although I do not see any hinges . 
Oh , yes , said Dorothy , now observing for the first time the crack in the rock . 
And isn't this a key hole , Billina ? pointing to a round , deep hole at one side of the door . 
If we only had the key , now , we could unlock it and see what is there , replied the yellow hen . 
Do you think that it would fit this key hole , Billina ? Try it and see , suggested the hen . 
So Dorothy searched in the pocket of her dress and found the golden key . 
Good gracious ! cried Dorothy , shrinking back as far as the narrow path would let her . 
For , standing within the narrow chamber of rock , was the form of a man or , at least , it seemed like a man , in the dim light . 
He was only about as tall as Dorothy herself , and his body was round as a ball and made out of burnished copper . 
He stood perfectly still , and where the light struck upon his form it glittered as if made of pure gold . 
Don't be frightened , called Billina , from her perch . 
I see it isn't , replied the girl , drawing a long breath . 
Once , said Dorothy , I knew a man made out of tin , who was a woodman named Nick Chopper . 
Oh , said the hen , with a sniff , as if she did not believe the story . 
That is a mystery , remarked the hen , twisting her head to arrange her wing feathers with her bill . 
She unfastened this card and returned to the path , where the light was better , and sat herself down upon a slab of rock to read the printing . 
What does it say ? asked the hen , curiously . 
Thinks , Speaks , Acts , and Does Everything but Live . 
Manufactured only at our Works at Evna , Land of Ev . 
All infringements will be promptly Prosecuted according to Law . 
How queer ! said the yellow hen . 
Do you think that is all true , my dear ? I don't know , answered Dorothy , who had more to read . 
N. B. This Mechanism is guaranteed to work perfectly for a thousand years . 
Well , I declare ! gasped the yellow hen , in amazement if the copper man can do half of these things he is a very wonderful machine . 
But I suppose it is all humbug , like so many other patented articles . 
We might wind him up , suggested Dorothy , and see what he'll do . 
Where is the key to the clock work ? asked Billina . 
Hanging on the peg where I found the card . 
Then , said the hen , let us try him , and find out if he will go . 
He is warranted for a thousand years , it seems but we do not know how long he has been standing inside this rock . 
Dorothy had already taken the clock key from the peg . 
Which shall I wind up first ? she asked , looking again at the directions on the card . 
Number One , I should think , returned Billina . 
That makes him think , doesn't it ? Yes , said Dorothy , and wound up Number One , under the left arm . 
He doesn't seem any different , remarked the hen , critically . 
Why , of course not he is only thinking , now , said Dorothy . 
I wonder what he is thinking about . 
I'll wind up his talk , and then perhaps he can tell us , said the girl . 
So she wound up Number Two , and immediately the clock work man said , without moving any part of his body except his lips Good morn ing , lit tle girl . 
Good morn ing , Mrs. Hen . 
The words sounded a little hoarse and creaky , and they were uttered all in the same tone , without any change of expression whatever but both Dorothy and Billina understood them perfectly . 
Good morning , sir , they answered , politely . 
Don't mention it , answered Dorothy . 
How ev er , he was not a ble to kill me , be cause I was not a live , and one must first live in or der to die . 
So that all his beat ing did me no harm , and mere ly kept my cop per bod y well pol ished . 
So , in de spair , he locked me up in this rock , threw the key in to the o cean , and then jumped in af ter it and was drowned . 
How very dreadful ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
It is , in deed , said the machine . 
Af ter that I re mem ber noth ing un til you wound me up a gain . 
It's a very wonderful story , said Dorothy , and proves that the Land of Ev is really a fairy land , as I thought it was . 
Of course it is , answered the copper man . 
I do not sup pose such a per fect ma chine as I am could be made in an y place but a fair y land . 
I've never seen one in Kansas , said Dorothy . 
But where did you get the key to un lock this door ? asked the clock work voice . 
I found it on the shore , where it was prob'ly washed up by the waves , she answered . 
And now , sir , if you don't mind , I'll wind up your action . 
That will please me ve ry much , said the machine . 
Said he From this time forth I am your o be di ent ser vant . 
What ev er you com mand , that I will do will ing ly if you keep me wound up . 
What is your name ? she asked . 
Tik tok , he replied . 
My for mer mas ter gave me that name be cause my clock work al ways ticks when it is wound up . 
I can hear it now , said the yellow hen . 
So can I , said Dorothy . 
That's nice , said the little girl only I never wish to get up in the morning . 
You can sleep until I lay my egg , said the yellow hen . 
Then , when I cackle , Tiktok will know it is time to waken you . 
Do you lay your egg very early ? asked Dorothy . 
About eight o'clock , said Billina . 
And everybody ought to be up by that time , I'm sure . 
Dorothy Opens the Dinner Pail Now Tiktok , said Dorothy , the first thing to be done is to find a way for us to escape from these rocks . 
The Wheelers are down below , you know , and threaten to kill us . 
There is no rea son to be a fraid of the Wheel ers , said Tiktok , the words coming more slowly than before . 
Why not ? she asked . 
Dear me ! said Dorothy , in a frightened tone . 
What can the matter be ? He's run down , I suppose , said the hen , calmly . 
You couldn't have wound him up very tight . 
I didn't know how much to wind him , replied the girl but I'll try to do better next time . 
She ran around the copper man to take the key from the peg at the back of his neck , but it was not there . 
It's gone ! cried Dorothy , in dismay . 
What's gone ? asked Billina . 
It probably fell off when he made that low bow to you , returned the hen . 
Look around , and see if you cannot find it again . 
Dorothy looked , and the hen helped her , and by and by the girl discovered the clock key , which had fallen into a crack of the rock . 
At once she wound up Tiktok's voice , taking care to give the key as many turns as it would go around . 
She next rewound the action clock work , and then Billina advised her to carry the key to Tiktok in her pocket , so it would not get lost again . 
And now , said Dorothy , when all this was accomplished , tell me what you were going to say about the Wheelers . 
Why , they are noth ing to be fright en'd at , said the machine . 
They might try to hurt a lit tle girl like you , per haps , be cause they are ver y mis chiev ous . 
But if I had a club they would run a way as soon as they saw me . 
Haven't you a club ? asked Dorothy . 
And you won't find such a thing among these rocks , either , declared the yellow hen . 
Then what shall we do ? asked the girl . 
Wind up my think works tight ly , and I will try to think of some oth er plan , said Tiktok . 
So Dorothy rewound his thought machinery , and while he was thinking she decided to eat her dinner . 
Billina was already pecking away at the cracks in the rocks , to find something to eat , so Dorothy sat down and opened her tin dinner pail . 
In the cover she found a small tank that was full of very nice lemonade . 
It was covered by a cup , which might also , when removed , be used to drink the lemonade from . 
Singularly enough , the nuts in this dinner pail grew already cracked , so that Dorothy had no trouble in picking out their meats to eat . 
Afterward she offered to share with Billina , but the hen murmured something about dead things and said she preferred her bugs and ants . 
Do the lunch box trees and the dinner pail trees belong to the Wheelers ? the child asked Tiktok , while engaged in eating her meal . 
Of course not , he answered . 
So there is no one to rule the Land of Ev , that I can think of . 
Per haps it is for this rea son that the Wheel ers claim the trees for their own , and pick the lunch eons and din ners to eat them selves . 
But they be long to the King , and you will find the roy al E stamped up on the bot tom of ev er y din ner pail . 
Dorothy turned the pail over , and at once discovered the royal mark upon it , as Tiktok had said . 
Are the Wheelers the only folks living in the Land of Ev ? enquired the girl . 
No they on ly in hab it a small por tion of it just back of the woods , replied the machine . 
You seem very durable , said Dorothy . 
Who made you ? The firm of Smith Tin ker , in the town of Evna , where the roy al pal ace stands , answered Tiktok . 
Did they make many of you ? asked the child . 
No I am the on ly au to mat ic me chan i cal man they ev er com plet ed , he replied . 
They were ver y won der ful in ven tors , were my mak ers , and quite ar tis tic in all they did . 
I am sure of that , said Dorothy . 
Do they live in the town of Evna now ? They are both gone , replied the machine . 
Oh , I'm sorry for that ! exclaimed the little girl . 
He must have been a great loss to this country , said Dorothy , who was by this time eating her custard pie . 
He was , acknowledged Tiktok . 
Also he is a great loss to me . 
For if I should get out of or der I do not know of an y one a ble to re pair me , be cause I am so com pli cat ed . 
You have no i de a how full of ma chin er y I am . 
I can imagine it , said Dorothy , readily . 
And now , continued the machine , I must stop talk ing and be gin think ing a gain of a way to es cape from this rock . 
So he turned half way around , in order to think without being disturbed . 
The best thinker I ever knew , said Dorothy to the yellow hen , was a scarecrow . 
It is true , declared Dorothy . 
But it seemed to me that he thought just as well before he got his brains as he did afterward . 
Do you expect me to believe all that rubbish about the Land of Oz ? enquired Billina , who seemed a little cross perhaps because bugs were scarce . 
What rubbish ? asked the child , who was now finishing her nuts and raisins . 
Why , your impossible stories about animals that can talk , and a tin woodman who is alive , and a scarecrow who can think . 
They are all there , said Dorothy , for I have seen them . 
I don't believe it ! cried the hen , with a toss of her head . 
That's 'cause you're so ign'rant , replied the girl , who was a little offended at her friend Billina's speech . 
In the Land of Oz , remarked Tiktok , turning toward them , an y thing is pos si ble . 
For it is a won der ful fair y coun try . 
There , Billina ! what did I say ? cried Dorothy . 
For it is on ly sep a ra ted from this Land of Ev by a broad des ert . 
Dorothy clapped her hands together delightedly . 
I'm glad of that ! she exclaimed . 
It makes me quite happy to be so near my old friends . 
The scarecrow I told you of , Billina , is the King of the Land of Oz . 
He is not the king now , said Tiktok . 
He was when I left there , declared Dorothy . 
That is news to me , said Dorothy , thoughtfully . 
But I s'pose lots of things have happened since I left the Land of Oz . 
I wonder what has become of the Scarecrow , and of the Tin Woodman , and the Cowardly Lion . 
And I wonder who this girl Ozma is , for I never heard of her before . 
But Tiktok did not reply to this . 
He had turned around again to resume his thinking . 
By this time Tiktok approached them with his stiff bow . 
All right , answered Dorothy , promptly . 
The Heads of Langwidere They walked slowly down the path between the rocks , Tiktok going first , Dorothy following him , and the yellow hen trotting along last of all . 
At the foot of the path the copper man leaned down and tossed aside with ease the rocks that encumbered the way . 
Then he turned to Dorothy and said Let me car ry your din ner pail . 
She placed it in his right hand at once , and the copper fingers closed firmly over the stout handle . 
Then the little procession marched out upon the level sands . 
But when the foremost had approached near enough , Tiktok swung the tin dinner pail and struck the Wheeler a sharp blow over its head with the queer weapon . 
Perhaps it did not hurt very much , but it made a great noise , and the Wheeler uttered a howl and tumbled over upon its side . 
The next minute it scrambled to its wheels and rolled away as fast as it could go , screeching with fear at the same time . 
I told you they were harm less , began Tiktok but before he could say more another Wheeler was upon them . 
Crack ! went the dinner pail against its head , knocking its straw hat a dozen feet away and that was enough for this Wheeler , also . 
It rolled away after the first one , and the third did not wait to be pounded with the pail , but joined its fellows as quickly as its wheels would whirl . 
The yellow hen gave a cackle of delight , and flying to a perch upon Tiktok's shoulder , she said Bravely done , my copper friend ! and wisely thought of , too . 
Now we are free from those ugly creatures . 
But just then a large band of Wheelers rolled from the forest , and relying upon their numbers to conquer , they advanced fiercely upon Tiktok . 
Dorothy grabbed Billina in her arms and held her tight , and the machine embraced the form of the little girl with his left arm , the better to protect her . 
Then the Wheelers were upon them . 
All , that is , except their leader . 
Tell your peo ple to go a way , commanded the machine . 
Then , as soon as the creature could get its breath , it shouted to the others to roll away , which they immediately did . 
Now , said Tiktok , you shall come with us and tell me what I want to know . 
You'll be sorry for treating me in this way , whined the Wheeler . 
I'm a terribly fierce person . 
As for that , answered Tiktok , I am only a ma chine , and can not feel sor row or joy , no mat ter what hap pens . 
But you are wrong to think your self ter ri ble or fierce . 
Why so ? asked the Wheeler . 
Be cause no one else thinks as you do . 
Your wheels make you help less to in jure an y one . 
For you have no fists and can not scratch or e ven pull hair . 
Nor have you an y feet to kick with . 
All you can do is to yell and shout , and that does not hurt an y one at all . 
The Wheeler burst into a flood of tears , to Dorothy's great surprise . 
Now I and my people are ruined forever ! he sobbed for you have discovered our secret . 
Until now we have frightened everyone , but since you have discovered our weakness our enemies will fall upon us and make us very miserable and unhappy . 
I won't indeed I won't ! promised the Wheeler , ceasing to cry and becoming more cheerful . 
I'm not really bad , you know but we have to pretend to be terrible in order to prevent others from attacking us . 
You and your peo ple are full of mis chief , and like to both er those who fear you . 
And you are of ten im pu dent and dis a gree a ble , too . 
But if you will try to cure those faults I will not tell any one how help less you are . 
I'll try , of course , replied the Wheeler , eagerly . 
And thank you , Mr. Tiktok , for your kindness . 
I am on ly a ma chine , said Tiktok . 
I can not be kind an y more than I can be sor ry or glad . 
I can on ly do what I am wound up to do . 
Are you wound up to keep my secret ? asked the Wheeler , anxiously . 
Yes if you be have your self . 
But tell me who rules the Land of Ev now ? asked the machine . 
There is no ruler , was the answer , because every member of the royal family is imprisoned by the Nome King . 
The Princess Langwidere is not exactly a ruler , you see , because she doesn't rule but she is the nearest approach to a ruler we have at present . 
I do not re mem ber her , said Tiktok . 
What does she look like ? That I cannot say , replied the Wheeler , although I have seen her twenty times . 
When we see the key we know we are beholding the Princess . 
That is strange , said Dorothy , in astonishment . 
Do you mean to say that so many different princesses are one and the same person ? Not exactly , answered the Wheeler . 
There is , of course , but one princess but she appears to us in many forms , which are all more or less beautiful . 
She must be a witch , exclaimed the girl . 
I do not think so , declared the Wheeler . 
But there is some mystery connected with her , nevertheless . 
She is a very vain creature , and lives mostly in a room surrounded by mirrors , so that she can admire herself whichever way she looks . 
The palace was surrounded by charming grounds , full of flowers and shrubbery . 
Several tinkling fountains could be seen , and there were pleasant walks bordered by rows of white marble statuary . 
To their disappointment they found the door tightly closed . 
A sign was tacked to the panel which read as follows OWNER ABSENT . 
Please Knock at the Third Door in the Left Wing . 
Now , said Tiktok to the captive Wheeler , you must show us the way to the Left Wing . 
Very well , agreed the prisoner , it is around here at the right . 
How can the left wing be at the right ? demanded Dorothy , who feared the Wheeler was fooling them . 
Because there used to be three wings , and two were torn down , so the one on the right is the only one left . 
It is a trick of the Princess Langwidere to prevent visitors from annoying her . 
Then the captive led them around to the wing , after which the machine man , having no further use for the Wheeler , permitted him to depart and rejoin his fellows . 
He immediately rolled away at a great pace and was soon lost to sight . 
Tiktok now counted the doors in the wing and knocked loudly upon the third one . 
No , miss I am her servant , replied the maid . 
May I see the Princess , please ? I will tell her you are here , miss , and ask her to grant you an audience , said the maid . 
Step in , please , and take a seat in the drawing room . 
So Dorothy walked in , followed closely by the machine . 
But as the yellow hen tried to enter after them , the little maid cried Shoo ! and flapped her apron in Billina's face . 
Shoo , yourself ! retorted the hen , drawing back in anger and ruffling up her feathers . 
Haven't you any better manners than that ? Oh , do you talk ? enquired the maid , evidently surprised . 
Can't you hear me ? snapped Billina . 
Drop that apron , and get out of the doorway , so that I may enter with my friends ! The Princess won't like it , said the maid , hesitating . 
I don't care whether she likes it or not , replied Billina , and fluttering her wings with a loud noise she flew straight at the maid's face . 
The little servant at once ducked her head , and the hen reached Dorothy's side in safety . 
Very well , sighed the maid if you are all ruined because of this obstinate hen , don't blame me for it . 
It isn't safe to annoy the Princess Langwidere . 
Tell her we are waiting , if you please , Dorothy requested , with dignity . 
Billina is my friend , and must go wherever I go . 
Without more words the maid led them to a richly furnished drawing room , lighted with subdued rainbow tints that came in through beautiful stained glass windows . 
Remain here , she said . 
The little servant bowed and withdrew , going through several passages and mounting two marble stairways before she came to the apartments occupied by her mistress . 
This she loved to do , and just as the maid entered she was saying to herself This head with the auburn hair and hazel eyes is quite attractive . 
I must wear it more often than I have done of late , although it may not be the best of my collection . 
You have company , Your Highness , announced the maid , bowing low . 
Who is it ? asked Langwidere , yawning . 
Dorothy Gale of Kansas , Mr. Tiktok and Billina , answered the maid . 
What a queer lot of names ! murmured the Princess , beginning to be a little interested . 
What are they like ? Is Dorothy Gale of Kansas pretty ? She might be called so , the maid replied . 
And is Mr. Tiktok attractive ? continued the Princess . 
That I cannot say , Your Highness . 
But he seems very bright . 
Will Your Gracious Highness see them ? Oh , I may as well , Nanda . 
But I am tired admiring this head , and if my visitor has any claim to beauty I must take care that she does not surpass me . 
So I will go to my cabinet and change to No. , which I think is my best appearance . 
Don't you ? Your No. is exceedingly beautiful , answered Nanda , with another bow . 
Then she said Help me to rise . 
Now I must explain to you that the Princess Langwidere had thirty heads as many as there are days in the month . 
But of course she could only wear one of them at a time , because she had but one neck . 
These heads were kept in what she called her cabinet , which was a beautiful dressing room that lay just between Langwidere's sleeping chamber and the mirrored sitting room . 
Each head was in a separate cupboard lined with velvet . 
The cupboards ran all around the sides of the dressing room , and had elaborately carved doors with gold numbers on the outside and jeweled framed mirrors on the inside of them . 
She always wore a simple white costume , that suited all the heads . 
Of course the thirty heads were in great variety , no two formed alike but all being of exceeding loveliness . 
There were heads with golden hair , brown hair , rich auburn hair and black hair but none with gray hair . 
The heads had eyes of blue , of gray , of hazel , of brown and of black but there were no red eyes among them , and all were bright and handsome . 
The noses were Grecian , Roman , retrousse and Oriental , representing all types of beauty and the mouths were of assorted sizes and shapes , displaying pearly teeth when the heads smiled . 
It had black hair and dark eyes and a lovely pearl and white complexion , and when Langwidere wore it she knew she was remarkably beautiful in appearance . 
was fiery , harsh and haughty in the extreme , and it often led the Princess to do unpleasant things which she regretted when she came to wear her other heads . 
But she did not remember this today , and went to meet her guests in the drawing room with a feeling of certainty that she would surprise them with her beauty . 
Oh ! said Langwidere , slightly lifting the nose of No. . 
I thought some one of importance had called . 
Then you were right , declared Dorothy . 
I'm a good deal of 'portance myself , and when Billina lays an egg she has the proudest cackle you ever heard . 
As for Tiktok , he's the Stop Stop ! commanded the Princess , with an angry flash of her splendid eyes . 
How dare you annoy me with your senseless chatter ? Why , you horrid thing ! said Dorothy , who was not accustomed to being treated so rudely . 
The Princess looked at her more closely . 
Tell me , she resumed , are you of royal blood ? Better than that , ma'am , said Dorothy . 
Huh ! cried the Princess , scornfully . 
You are a foolish child , and I cannot allow you to annoy me . 
Run away , you little goose , and bother some one else . 
Dorothy was so indignant that for a moment she could find no words to reply . 
Dorothy obeyed , without a thought of fear , and stood before the Princess while Langwidere examined her face with careful attention . 
You are rather attractive , said the lady , presently . 
Not at all beautiful , you understand , but you have a certain style of prettiness that is different from that of any of my thirty heads . 
So I believe I'll take your head and give you No. for it . 
Well , I b'lieve you won't ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
It will do you no good to refuse , continued the Princess for I need your head for my collection , and in the Land of Ev my will is law . 
I never have cared much for No. , and you will find that it is very little worn . 
Besides , it will do you just as well as the one you're wearing , for all practical purposes . 
I don't know anything about your No. , and I don't want to , said Dorothy , firmly . 
I'm not used to taking cast off things , so I'll just keep my own head . 
You refuse ? cried the Princess , with a frown . 
Of course I do , was the reply . 
Then , said Langwidere , I shall lock you up in a tower until you decide to obey me . 
Nanda , turning to her maid , call my army . 
Carry that girl to the North Tower and lock her up ! cried the Princess , pointing to Dorothy . 
To hear is to obey , answered the big red colonel , and caught the child by her arm . 
Help ! he shouted , and the ten lean soldiers sprang to assist their leader . 
My ac tion has run down , he called to Dorothy . 
Wind me up , quick . 
This is too bad , said the machine . 
Well , it can't be helped , said Dorothy , with a sigh . 
Will you exchange heads with me ? demanded the Princess . 
No , indeed ! cried Dorothy . 
Then lock her up , said Langwidere to her soldiers , and they led Dorothy to a high tower at the north of the palace and locked her securely within . 
The soldiers afterward tried to lift Tiktok , but they found the machine so solid and heavy that they could not stir it . 
So they left him standing in the center of the drawing room . 
People will think I have a new statue , said Langwidere , so it won't matter in the least , and Nanda can keep him well polished . 
What shall we do with the hen ? asked the colonel , who had just discovered Billina in the work basket . 
Put her in the chicken house , answered the Princess . 
Someday I'll have her fried for breakfast . 
She looks rather tough , Your Highness , said Nanda , doubtfully . 
That is a base slander ! cried Billina , struggling frantically in the colonel's arms . 
But the breed of chickens I come from is said to be poison to all princesses . 
Then , remarked Langwidere , I will not fry the hen , but keep her to lay eggs and if she doesn't do her duty I'll have her drowned in the horse trough . 
Ozma of Oz to the Rescue Nanda brought Dorothy bread and water for her supper , and she slept upon a hard stone couch with a single pillow and a silken coverlet . 
In the morning she leaned out of the window of her prison in the tower to see if there was any way to escape . 
To the east she saw the forest , with the sands beyond it and the ocean beyond that . 
There was even a dark speck upon the shore that she thought might be the chicken coop in which she had arrived at this singular country . 
Then she looked to the north , and saw a deep but narrow valley lying between two rocky mountains , and a third mountain that shut off the valley at the further end . 
Once a cyclone had carried her across it , and a magical pair of silver shoes had carried her back again . 
But now she had neither a cyclone nor silver shoes to assist her , and her condition was sad indeed . 
Really , there seemed no hope of help for her from her old friends in the Land of Oz . 
Thoughtfully she gazed from her narrow window . 
On all the desert not a living thing was stirring . 
Wait , though ! Something surely WAS stirring on the desert something her eyes had not observed at first . 
Now it seemed like a cloud now it seemed like a spot of silver now it seemed to be a mass of rainbow colors that moved swiftly toward her . 
A broad green carpet was unrolling itself upon the desert , while advancing across the carpet was a wonderful procession that made the girl open her eyes in amazement as she gazed . 
And standing upright within the chariot was a beautiful girl clothed in flowing robes of silver gauze and wearing a jeweled diadem upon her dainty head . 
Dorothy , just above him , could keep silent no longer . 
Here I am ! she shouted , as loudly as she could . 
Here's Dorothy ! Dorothy who ? asked the Scarecrow , tipping his head to look upward until he nearly lost his balance and tumbled over backward . 
Dorothy Gale , of course . 
Your friend from Kansas , she answered . 
Why , hello , Dorothy ! said the Scarecrow . 
What in the world are you doing up there ? Nothing , she called down , because there's nothing to do . 
Save me , my friend save me ! You seem to be quite safe now , replied the Scarecrow . 
I'm locked in , so that I can't get out , she pleaded . 
That's all right , said the Scarecrow . 
You might be worse off , little Dorothy . 
You can't get drowned , or be run over by a Wheeler , or fall out of an apple tree . 
Some folks would think they were lucky to be up there . 
Well , I don't , declared the girl , and I want to get down immed'i'tly and see you and the Tin Woodman and the Cowardly Lion . 
Very well , said the Scarecrow , nodding . 
It shall be just as you say , little friend . 
Who locked you up ? The princess Langwidere , who is a horrid creature , she answered . 
I do not blame you , exclaimed Ozma , promptly . 
I will see the Princess at once , and oblige her to liberate you . 
Ozma now drove her chariot around to the third door of the wing , upon which the Tin Woodman boldly proceeded to knock . 
She seems a little nervous , replied the Tin Woodman . 
But Ozma only smiled at the angry Princess . 
Sit down , please , she said , quietly . 
I have traveled a long way to see you , and you must listen to what I have to say . 
Must ! screamed the Princess , her black eyes flashing with fury for she still wore her No. head . 
Must , to ME ! To be sure , said Ozma . 
I am Ruler of the Land of Oz , and I am powerful enough to destroy all your kingdom , if I so wish . 
Hearing these words , Langwidere suddenly became quiet . 
I wish you could , indeed , free my aunt and her ten royal children , said she , eagerly . 
For if they were restored to their proper forms and station they could rule the Kingdom of Ev themselves , and that would save me a lot of worry and trouble . 
Then we will presently discuss this matter , said Ozma , and try to find a way to liberate your aunt and cousins . 
But first you must liberate another prisoner the little girl you have locked up in your tower . 
Of course , said Langwidere , readily . 
I had forgotten all about her . 
That was yesterday , you know , and a Princess cannot be expected to remember today what she did yesterday . 
Come with me , and I will release the prisoner at once . 
So Ozma followed her , and they passed up the stairs that led to the room in the tower . 
You are scratch ing my pol ish . 
Oh , excuse me ! he replied , hastily drawing back . 
Are you alive ? No , said Tiktok , I am on ly a ma chine . 
But I can think and speak and act , when I am pro per ly wound up . 
Just now my ac tion is run down , and Dor o thy has the key to it . 
That's all right , replied the Scarecrow . 
Dorothy will soon be free , and then she'll attend to your works . 
But it must be a great misfortune not to be alive . 
Because you have no brains , as I have , said the Scarecrow . 
Oh , yes , I have , returned Tiktok . 
I am fit ted with Smith Tin ker's Im proved Com bi na tion Steel Brains . 
They are what make me think . 
What sort of brains are you fit ted with ? I don't know , admitted the Scarecrow . 
They were given to me by the great Wizard of Oz , and I didn't get a chance to examine them before he put them in . 
But they work splendidly and my conscience is very active . 
Have you a conscience ? No , said Tiktok . 
And no heart , I suppose ? added the Tin Woodman , who had been listening with interest to this conversation . 
Then , continued the Tin Woodman , I regret to say that you are greatly inferior to my friend the Scarecrow , and to myself . 
For we are both alive , and he has brains which do not need to be wound up , while I have an excellent heart that is continually beating in my bosom . 
I con grat u late you , replied Tiktok . 
I can not help be ing your in fer i or for I am a mere ma chine . 
When I am wound up I do my du ty by go ing just as my ma chin er y is made to go . 
You have no i de a how full of ma chin er y I am . 
I can guess , said the Scarecrow , looking at the machine man curiously . 
Some day I'd like to take you apart and see just how you are made . 
Do not do that , I beg of you , said Tiktok for you could not put me to geth er a gain , and my use ful ness would be de stroyed . 
Oh ! are you useful ? asked the Scarecrow , surprised . 
Ve ry , said Tiktok . 
In that case , the Scarecrow kindly promised , I won't fool with your interior at all . 
For I am a poor mechanic , and might mix you up . 
Thank you , said Tiktok . 
Just then Ozma re entered the room , leading Dorothy by the hand and followed closely by the Princess Langwidere . 
Then the Tin Woodman embraced her very gently , for he knew his tin arms might hurt her if he squeezed too roughly . 
Then Dorothy asked Where is Billina ? I don't know , said the Scarecrow . 
Who is Billina ? She's a yellow hen who is another friend of mine , answered the girl , anxiously . 
I wonder what has become of her ? She is in the chicken house , in the back yard , said the Princess . 
My drawing room is no place for hens . 
Without waiting to hear more Dorothy ran to get Billina , and just outside the door she came upon the Cowardly Lion , still hitched to the chariot beside the great Tiger . 
In an instant Dorothy was hugging the huge Lion joyfully . 
I'm SO glad to see you again ! she cried . 
I am also glad to see you , Dorothy , said the Lion . 
We've had some fine adventures together , haven't we ? Yes , indeed , she replied . 
How are you ? As cowardly as ever , the beast answered in a meek voice . 
Every little thing scares me and makes my heart beat fast . 
But let me introduce to you a new friend of mine , the Hungry Tiger . 
Dreadfully hungry , answered the Tiger , snapping his jaws together with a fierce click . 
Then why don't you eat something ? she asked . 
It's no use , said the Tiger sadly . 
I've tried that , but I always get hungry again . 
Why , it is the same with me , said Dorothy . 
Yet I keep on eating . 
But you eat harmless things , so it doesn't matter , replied the Tiger . 
For my part , I'm a savage beast , and have an appetite for all sorts of poor little living creatures , from a chipmunk to fat babies . 
How dreadful ! said Dorothy . 
Isn't it , though ? returned the Hungry Tiger , licking his lips with his long red tongue . 
Fat babies ! Don't they sound delicious ? But I've never eaten any , because my conscience tells me it is wrong . 
If I had no conscience I would probably eat the babies and then get hungry again , which would mean that I had sacrificed the poor babies for nothing . 
No hungry I was born , and hungry I shall die . 
But I'll not have any cruel deeds on my conscience to be sorry for . 
I think you are a very good tiger , said Dorothy , patting the huge head of the beast . 
In that you are mistaken , was the reply . 
I am a good beast , perhaps , but a disgracefully bad tiger . 
For it is the nature of tigers to be cruel and ferocious , and in refusing to eat harmless living creatures I am acting as no good tiger has ever before acted . 
That is why I left the forest and joined my friend the Cowardly Lion . 
But the Lion is not really cowardly , said Dorothy . 
I have seen him act as bravely as can be . 
All a mistake , my dear , protested the Lion gravely . 
To others I may have seemed brave , at times , but I have never been in any danger that I was not afraid . 
Nor I , said Dorothy , truthfully . 
But I must go and set free Billina , and then I will see you again . 
It bounded here and there about the chicken house , and at first Dorothy could not tell what it was , while the screeching of the chickens nearly deafened her . 
But suddenly the bunch of feathers stopped whirling , and then , to her amazement , the girl saw Billina crouching upon the prostrate form of a speckled rooster . 
Why , Billina ! cried Dorothy , in a shocked voice have you been fighting ? I really think I have , retorted Billina . 
Come here , Billina , and I'll let you out for Ozma of Oz is here , and has set us free . 
So the yellow hen came to the door , which Dorothy unlatched for her to pass through , and the other chickens silently watched them from their corner without offering to approach nearer . 
The girl lifted her friend in her arms and exclaimed Oh , Billina ! how dreadful you look . 
You've lost a lot of feathers , and one of your eyes is nearly pecked out , and your comb is bleeding ! That's nothing , said Billina . 
Just look at the speckled rooster ! Didn't I do him up brown ? Dorothy shook her head . 
I don't 'prove of this , at all , she said , carrying Billina away toward the palace . 
It isn't a good thing for you to 'sociate with those common chickens . 
They would soon spoil your good manners , and you wouldn't be respec'able any more . 
I didn't ask to associate with them , replied Billina . 
It is that cross old Princess who is to blame . 
Very well , Billina , said Dorothy . 
We won't talk about it any more . 
Soon they came to the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger to whom the girl introduced the Yellow Hen . 
Glad to meet any friend of Dorothy's , said the Lion , politely . 
To judge by your present appearance , you are not a coward , as I am . 
Your present appearance makes my mouth water , said the Tiger , looking at Billina greedily . 
My , my ! how good you would taste if I could only crunch you between my jaws . 
You would only appease my appetite for a moment so it isn't worth while to eat you . 
Thank you , said the hen , nestling closer in Dorothy's arms . 
Besides , it wouldn't be right , continued the Tiger , looking steadily at Billina and clicking his jaws together . 
Of course not , cried Dorothy , hastily . 
Billina is my friend , and you mustn't ever eat her under any circ'mstances . 
I'll try to remember that , said the Tiger but I'm a little absent minded , at times . 
Opposite to them sat Ozma herself and the Princess Langwidere , and beside them there was a vacant chair for Dorothy . 
Around this important group was ranged the Army of Oz , and as Dorothy looked at the handsome uniforms of the Twenty Seven she said Why , they seem to be all officers . 
They are , all except one , answered the Tin Woodman . 
I have in my Army eight Generals , six Colonels , seven Majors and five Captains , besides one private for them to command . 
Besides , the officers are more important looking , and lend dignity to our army . 
No doubt you are right , said Dorothy , seating herself beside Ozma . 
The Royal Family of Ev The Tin Woodman was the first to address the meeting . 
Also that there was no one in Ev powerful enough to release them . 
Naturally our Ozma wished to undertake the adventure of liberating the poor prisoners but for a long time she could find no way to cross the great desert between the two countries . 
As soon as she had received the carpet our gracious Ruler ordered me to assemble our army , which I did . 
Why should you fight the Nome King ? he asked . 
He has done no wrong . 
No wrong ! cried Dorothy . 
Isn't it wrong to imprison a queen mother and her ten children ? They were sold to the Nome King by King Ev ol do , replied Tiktok . 
It was the King of Ev who did wrong , and when he re al ized what he had done he jumped in to the sea and drowned him self . 
This is news to me , said Ozma , thoughtfully . 
I had supposed the Nome King was all to blame in the matter . 
But , in any case , he must be made to liberate the prisoners . 
My uncle Evoldo was a very wicked man , declared the Princess Langwidere . 
If he had drowned himself before he sold his family , no one would have cared . 
But he sold them to the powerful Nome King in exchange for a long life , and afterward destroyed the life by jumping into the sea . 
Then , said Ozma , he did not get the long life , and the Nome King must give up the prisoners . 
Where are they confined ? No one knows , exactly , replied the Princess . 
I'd like to know , said Dorothy , who this Nome King is ? I will tell you , replied Ozma . 
He is said to be the Ruler of the Underground World , and commands the rocks and all that the rocks contain . 
I understand , said Dorothy , nodding her little head wisely . 
If we wish to see King Roquat of the Rocks , we must visit his own country , where he is all powerful , and therefore it will be a dangerous undertaking . 
But , for the sake of the poor prisoners , said Dorothy , we ought to do it . 
We shall do it , replied the Scarecrow , although it requires a lot of courage for me to go near to the furnaces of the Nome King . 
For I am only stuffed with straw , and a single spark of fire might destroy me entirely . 
The furnaces may also melt my tin , said the Tin Woodman but I am going . 
I can't bear heat , remarked the Princess Langwidere , yawning lazily , so I shall stay at home . 
We do not need you , said Ozma . 
For , if with the aid of my brave followers I cannot accomplish my purpose , then it would be useless for you to undertake the journey . 
Quite true , sighed the Princess . 
So , if you'll excuse me , I will now retire to my cabinet . 
I've worn this head quite awhile , and I want to change it for another . 
Ozma said to Tiktok Will you join our party ? I am the slave of the girl Dor oth y , who rescued me from pris on , replied the machine . 
Where she goes I will go . 
Oh , I am going with my friends , of course , said Dorothy , quickly . 
I wouldn't miss the fun for anything . 
Will you go , too , Billina ? To be sure , said Billina in a careless tone . 
She was smoothing down the feathers of her back and not paying much attention . 
Heat is just in her line , remarked the Scarecrow . 
If she is nicely roasted , she will be better than ever . 
Then said Ozma , we will arrange to start for the Kingdom of the Nomes at daybreak tomorrow . 
And , in the meantime , we will rest and prepare ourselves for the journey . 
Although Princess Langwidere did not again appear to her guests , the palace servants waited upon the strangers from Oz and did everything in their power to make the party comfortable . 
There were many vacant rooms at their disposal , and the brave Army of twenty seven was easily provided for and liberally feasted . 
At one time Dorothy found the little maid Nanda crouching in terror in a corner , with the Hungry Tiger standing before her . 
You certainly look delicious , the beast was saying . 
Will you kindly give me permission to eat you ? No , no , no ! cried the maid in reply . 
I I'll do the best I can ! said Nanda , and she ran away as fast as she could go . 
Are you so very hungry ? asked Dorothy , in wonder . 
You can hardly imagine the size of my appetite , replied the Tiger , sadly . 
It seems to fill my whole body , from the end of my throat to the tip of my tail . 
I am very sure the appetite doesn't fit me , and is too large for the size of my body . 
Some day , when I meet a dentist with a pair of forceps , I'm going to have it pulled . 
What , your tooth ? asked Dorothy . 
No , my appetite , said the Hungry Tiger . 
She was much interested in the story of Ozma , who had been , when a baby , stolen by a wicked old witch and transformed into a boy . 
She did not know that she had ever been a girl until she was restored to her natural form by a kind sorceress . 
Then it was found that she was the only child of the former Ruler of Oz , and was entitled to rule in his place . 
What a remarkable thing , to be alive ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
I quiet agree with you , replied the Sawhorse , in a rough but not unpleasant voice . 
A creature like me has no business to live , as we all know . 
But it was the magic powder that did it , so I cannot justly be blamed . 
Of course not , said Dorothy . 
And you seem to be of some use , 'cause I noticed the Scarecrow riding upon your back . 
Oh , yes I'm of use , returned the Sawhorse and I never tire , never have to be fed , or cared for in any way . 
Are you intel'gent ? asked the girl . 
Not very , said the creature . 
It would be foolish to waste intelligence on a common Sawhorse , when so many professors need it . 
But I know enough to obey my masters , and to gid dup , or whoa , when I'm told to . 
So I'm pretty well satisfied . 
But before daybreak every one was awake and stirring , and soon the adventurers were eating a hasty breakfast in the great dining room of the palace . 
Ozma sat at the head of a long table , on a raised platform , with Dorothy on her right hand and the Scarecrow on her left . 
The Scarecrow did not eat , of course but Ozma placed him near her so that she might ask his advice about the journey while she ate . 
First rode Ozma , with Dorothy beside her in the golden chariot and holding Billina fast in her arms . 
Then came the Scarecrow on the Sawhorse , with the Tin Woodman and Tiktok marching side by side just behind him . 
After these tramped the Army , looking brave and handsome in their splendid uniforms . 
The Giant with the Hammer The road led for a time through a pretty farm country , and then past a picnic grove that was very inviting . 
Immediately the yellow hen struggled from Dorothy's arms and flew into a clump of bushes by the roadside . 
What's the matter ? called the Tin Woodman , anxiously . 
Why , Billina wants to lay her egg , that's all , said Dorothy . 
Lay her egg ! repeated the Tin Woodman , in astonishment . 
Yes she lays one every morning , about this time and it's quite fresh , said the girl . 
What else can we do ? asked the girl . 
It's a habit of Billina's and she can't break herself of it . 
Then she must hurry up , said the Tin Woodman , impatiently . 
No , no ! exclaimed the Scarecrow . 
If she hurries she may lay scrambled eggs . 
That's nonsense , said Dorothy . 
But Billina won't be long , I'm sure . 
So they stood and waited , although all were restless and anxious to proceed . 
For ward march ! shouted the Tin Woodman , waving his axe , and the procession started just as Dorothy had once more grabbed Billina in her arms . 
Isn't anyone going to get my egg ? cried the hen , in great excitement . 
I'll get it , said the Scarecrow and at his command the Sawhorse pranced into the bushes . 
The straw man soon found the egg , which he placed in his jacket pocket . 
What shall I do with the egg ? he asked Dorothy . 
I do not know , the girl answered . 
Perhaps the Hungry Tiger would like it . 
It would not be enough to fill one of my back teeth , remarked the Tiger . 
A bushel of them , hard boiled , might take a little of the edge off my appetite but one egg isn't good for anything at all , that I know of . 
No it wouldn't even make a sponge cake , said the Scarecrow , thoughtfully . 
The Tin Woodman might carry it with his axe and hatch it but after all I may as well keep it myself for a souvenir . 
So he left it in his pocket . 
They had now reached that part of the valley that lay between the two high mountains which Dorothy had seen from her tower window . 
At the far end was the third great mountain , which blocked the valley and was the northern edge of the Land of Ev . 
It was underneath this mountain that the Nome King's palace was said to be but it would be some time before they reached that place . 
So Ozma took a small square of green cloth from her pocket and threw it upon the ground . 
At once it became the magic carpet , and unrolled itself far enough for all the cavalcade to walk upon . 
The chariot now advanced , and the green carpet unrolled before it , crossing the gulf on a level with its banks , so that all passed over in safety . 
That's easy enough , said the Scarecrow . 
I wonder what will happen next . 
They now heard a low and deep thump ! thump ! thump ! which echoed throughout the valley and seemed to grow louder as they advanced . 
Then , turning a corner of rock , they saw before them a huge form , which towered above the path for more than a hundred feet . 
Of course they at once halted , a safe distance away from the terrible iron mallet . 
Wow ! said the Cowardly Lion , with a shudder . 
It makes me dreadfully nervous to see that big hammer pounding so near my head . 
One blow would crush me into a door mat . 
The ir on gi ant is a fine fel low , said Tiktok , and works as stead i ly as a clock . 
He was made for the Nome King by Smith Tin ker , who made me , and his du ty is to keep folks from find ing the un der ground pal ace . 
Is he not a great work of art ? Can he think , and speak , as you do ? asked Ozma , regarding the giant with wondering eyes . 
No , replied the machine he is on ly made to pound the road , and has no think ing or speak ing at tach ment . 
But he pounds ve ry well , I think . 
Too well , observed the Scarecrow . 
He is keeping us from going farther . 
Is there no way to stop his machinery ? On ly the Nome King , who has the key , can do that , answered Tiktok . 
Then , said Dorothy , anxiously , what shall we do ? Excuse me for a few minutes , said the Scarecrow , and I will think it over . 
He retired , then , to a position in the rear , where he turned his painted face to the rocks and began to think . 
Meantime the giant continued to raise his iron mallet high in the air and to strike the path terrific blows that echoed through the mountains like the roar of a cannon . 
We have but to run under the hammer , one at a time , when it is lifted , and pass to the other side before it falls again . 
It will require quick work , if we escape the blow , said the Tin Woodman , with a shake of his head . 
But it really seems the only thing to be done . 
Who will make the first attempt ? They looked at one another hesitatingly for a moment . 
Then the Cowardly Lion , who was trembling like a leaf in the wind , said to them I suppose the head of the procession must go first and that's me . 
But I'm terribly afraid of the big hammer ! What will become of me ? asked Ozma . 
You might rush under the hammer yourself , but the chariot would surely be crushed . 
We must leave the chariot , said the Scarecrow . 
But you two girls can ride upon the backs of the Lion and the Tiger . 
So this was decided upon , and Ozma , as soon as the Lion was unfastened from the chariot , at once mounted the beast's back and said she was ready . 
Cling fast to his mane , advised Dorothy . 
I used to ride him myself , and that's the way I held on . 
Dorothy sat upon his back and locked her arms around his striped neck , for he had no mane to cling to . 
He made the leap straight and true as an arrow from a bow , and ere Dorothy realized it she was out of danger and standing by Ozma's side . 
Now came the Scarecrow on the Sawhorse , and while they made the dash in safety they were within a hair's breadth of being caught by the descending hammer . 
Tiktok walked up to the very edge of the spot the hammer struck , and as it was raised for the next blow he calmly stepped forward and escaped its descent . 
That was an idea for the Tin Woodman to follow , and he also crossed in safety while the great hammer was in the air . 
But when it came to the twenty six officers and the private , their knees were so weak that they could not walk a step . 
In battle we are wonderfully courageous , said one of the generals , and our foes find us very terrible to face . 
But war is one thing and this is another . 
When it comes to being pounded upon the head by an iron hammer , and smashed into pancakes , we naturally object . 
Make a run for it , urged the Scarecrow . 
Our knees shake so that we cannot run , answered a captain . 
If we should try it we would all certainly be pounded to a jelly . 
Well , well , sighed the Cowardly Lion , I see , friend Tiger , that we must place ourselves in great danger to rescue this bold army . 
Come with me , and we will do the best we can . 
So , Ozma and Dorothy having already dismounted from their backs , the Lion and the Tiger leaped back again under the awful hammer and returned with two generals clinging to their necks . 
They repeated this daring passage twelve times , when all the officers had been carried beneath the giant's legs and landed safely on the further side . 
By that time the beasts were very tired , and panted so hard that their tongues hung out of their great mouths . 
But what is to become of the private ? asked Ozma . 
Oh , leave him there to guard the chariot , said the Lion . 
I'm tired out , and won't pass under that mallet again . 
The officers at once protested that they must have the private with them , else there would be no one for them to command . 
But neither the Lion or the Tiger would go after him , and so the Scarecrow sent the Sawhorse . 
Here he clung desperately while the arm rose and fell with each one of the rapid strokes . 
The Scarecrow dashed in to rescue his Sawhorse , and had his left foot smashed by the hammer before he could pull the creature out of danger . 
Also his left knee was cracked , and had to be bound up with a string . 
Billina having fluttered under the hammer , it now remained only to rescue the private who was riding upon the iron giant's arm , high in the air . 
The Scarecrow lay flat upon the ground and called to the man to jump down upon his body , which was soft because it was stuffed with straw . 
This the private managed to do , waiting until a time when he was nearest the ground and then letting himself drop upon the Scarecrow . 
He accomplished the feat without breaking any bones , and the Scarecrow declared he was not injured in the least . 
Therefore , the Tin Woodman having by this time fitted new ears to the Sawhorse , the entire party proceeded upon its way , leaving the giant to pound the path behind them . 
And it was very silent , too , as there were no birds to sing or squirrels to chatter , the trees being left far behind them and only the bare rocks remaining . 
But no one paid any attention to this because they were now close to the Nome King's dominions , and his splendid underground palace could not be very far away . 
Suddenly they heard a shout of jeering laughter , and stopped short . 
They would have to stop in a minute , anyway , for the huge mountain barred their further progress and the path ran close up to a wall of rock and ended . 
Who was that laughing ? asked Ozma . 
There was no reply , but in the gloom they could see strange forms flit across the face of the rock . 
They kept close to the steep cliff facing our friends , and glided up and down , and this way and that , with a lack of regularity that was quite confusing . 
Do not mind them , said Tiktok , as Dorothy shrank back . 
They are on ly the Nomes . 
And what are Nomes ? asked the girl , half frightened . 
They are rock fair ies , and serve the Nome King , replied the machine . 
But they will do us no harm . 
You must call for the King , be cause with out him you can ne ver find the en trance to the pal ace . 
YOU call , said Dorothy to Ozma . 
S s so we are g going back after it ! That is impossible , replied the Tin Woodman . 
For the giant with the hammer would kill you all if you tried to pass him . 
Oh ! I'd forgotten the giant , said the general , turning pale . 
You seem to forget a good many things , remarked the Tin Woodman . 
I hope you won't forget that you are brave men . 
Never ! cried the general , slapping his gold embroidered chest . 
Never ! cried all the other officers , indignantly slapping their chests . 
That is right , agreed the Tin Woodman . 
And now you must all come back to Ozma , and obey HER orders . 
And if you try to run away again I will have her reduce all the twenty six officers to privates , and make the private your general . 
This terrible threat so frightened them that they at once returned to where Ozma was standing beside the Cowardly Lion . 
You must not command the Nome King , said Tiktok , for you do not rule him , as you do your own peo ple . 
So Ozma called again , saying I request the Nome King to appear to us . 
Only the mocking laughter replied to her , and the shadowy Nomes continued to flit here and there upon the rocky cliff . 
Try en treat y , said Tiktok to Ozma . 
If he will not come at your re quest , then the Nome King may list en to your plead ing . 
Ozma looked around her proudly . 
Do you wish your ruler to plead with this wicked Nome King ? she asked . 
But our sweet little ruler must always maintain her dignity , just as I maintain mine . 
I'm not afraid to plead with him , said Dorothy . 
I'm only a little girl from Kansas , and we've got more dignity at home than we know what to do with . 
I'LL call the Nome King . 
Do , said the Hungry Tiger and if he makes hash of you I'll willingly eat you for breakfast tomorrow morning . 
So Dorothy stepped forward and said PLEASE Mr. Nome King , come here and see us . 
The Nomes started to laugh again but a low growl came from the mountain , and in a flash they had all vanished from sight and were silent . 
Then a door in the rock opened , and a voice cried Enter ! Isn't it a trick ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
Never mind , replied Ozma . 
We came here to rescue the poor Queen of Ev and her ten children , and we must run some risks to do so . 
The Nome King is hon est and good na tured , said Tiktok . 
You can trust him to do what is right . 
And upon the throne sat the Nome King . 
This important monarch of the Underground World was a little fat man clothed in gray brown garments that were the exact color of the rock throne in which he was seated . 
His bushy hair and flowing beard were also colored like the rocks , and so was his face . 
He wore no crown of any sort , and his only ornament was a broad , jewel studded belt that encircled his fat little body . 
Sit down , my dears , said the King , and tell me why you have come all this way to see me , and what I can do to make you happy . 
Dorothy thought this made the little monarch look more like Santa Claus than ever but Ozma now began speaking , and every one listened intently to her words . 
Oh , no you are mistaken about that , replied the King . 
They are not my prisoners , but my slaves , whom I purchased from the King of Ev . 
But that was wrong , said Ozma . 
You cheated him , though , declared Dorothy for the King of Ev did not have a long life . 
He jumped into the sea and was drowned . 
That was not my fault , said the Nome King , crossing his legs and smiling contentedly . 
I gave him the long life , all right but he destroyed it . 
Then how could it be a long life ? asked Dorothy . 
Easily enough , was the reply . 
Could you say that I had not given you a pretty doll ? No , answered Dorothy . 
And could you , in fairness , ask me to return to you the lock of hair , just because you had smashed the doll ? No , said Dorothy , again . 
Of course not , the Nome King returned . 
Nor will I give up the Queen and her children because the King of Ev destroyed his long life by jumping into the sea . 
They belong to me and I shall keep them . 
But you are treating them cruelly , said Ozma , who was much distressed by the King's refusal . 
In what way ? he asked . 
By making them your slaves , said she . 
Cruelty , remarked the monarch , puffing out wreathes of smoke and watching them float into the air , is a thing I can't abide . 
Instead of being obliged to labor , they merely decorate my apartments , and I really think I have treated them with great kindness . 
But what a dreadful fate is theirs ! exclaimed Ozma , earnestly . 
And the Kingdom of Ev is in great need of its royal family to govern it . 
If you will liberate them , and restore them to their proper forms , I will give you ten ornaments to replace each one you lose . 
The Nome King looked grave . 
Suppose I refuse ? he asked . 
Then , said Ozma , firmly , I am here with my friends and my army to conquer your kingdom and oblige you to obey my wishes . 
The Nome King laughed until he choked and he choked until he coughed and he coughed until his face turned from grayish brown to bright red . 
And then he wiped his eyes with a rock colored handkerchief and grew grave again . 
You are as brave as you are pretty , my dear , he said to Ozma . 
But you have little idea of the extent of the task you have undertaken . 
Come with me for a moment . 
He arose and took Ozma's hand , leading her to a little door at one side of the room . 
This he opened and they stepped out upon a balcony , from whence they obtained a wonderful view of the Underground World . 
A vast cave extended for miles and miles under the mountain , and in every direction were furnaces and forges glowing brightly and Nomes hammering upon precious metals or polishing gleaming jewels . 
So great were their numbers that they quickly filled the immense underground cavern and forced the busy workmen to abandon their tasks . 
Although this tremendous army consisted of rock colored Nomes , all squat and fat , they were clothed in glittering armor of polished steel , inlaid with beautiful gems . 
Upon his brow each wore a brilliant electric light , and they bore sharp spears and swords and battle axes of solid bronze . 
This , said the Nome King , is but a small part of my army . 
No ruler upon Earth has ever dared to fight me , and no ruler ever will , for I am too powerful to oppose . 
He whistled again , and at once the martial array filed through the silver and gold doorways and disappeared , after which the workmen again resumed their labors at the furnaces . 
Then , sad and discouraged , Ozma of Oz turned to her friends , and the Nome King calmly reseated himself on his rock throne . 
It would be foolish for us to fight , the girl said to the Tin Woodman . 
For our brave Twenty Seven would be quickly destroyed . 
I'm sure I do not know how to act in this emergency . 
Ask the King where his kitchen is , suggested the Tiger . 
I'm hungry as a bear . 
I might pounce upon the King and tear him in pieces , remarked the Cowardly Lion . 
Try it , said the monarch , lighting his pipe with another hot coal which he took from his pocket . 
This is the most sensible thing any of you have suggested , declared the Nome King . 
It is folly to threaten me , but I'm so kind hearted that I cannot stand coaxing or wheedling . 
If you really wish to accomplish anything by your journey , my dear Ozma , you must coax me . 
Very well , said Ozma , more cheerfully . 
Let us be friends , and talk this over in a friendly manner . 
To be sure , agreed the King , his eyes twinkling merrily . 
Tell me , sir , how this may be accomplished . 
Then , said the Nome King , I will make you this offer You shall go alone and unattended into my palace and examine carefully all that the rooms contain . 
Oh , thank you ! thank you for this kind offer ! said Ozma , eagerly . 
I make but one condition , added the Nome King , his eyes twinkling . 
What is it ? she enquired . 
This is only fair and just , and is the risk you declared you were willing to take . 
The Eleven Guesses Hearing this condition imposed by the Nome King , Ozma became silent and thoughtful , and all her friends looked at her uneasily . 
Don't you do it ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
If you guess wrong , you will be enslaved yourself . 
But I shall have eleven guesses , answered Ozma . 
Surely I ought to guess one object in eleven correctly and , if I do , I shall rescue one of the royal family and be safe myself . 
Then the rest of you may attempt it , and soon we shall free all those who are enslaved . 
What if we fail ? enquired the Scarecrow . 
I'd look nice as a piece of bric a brac , wouldn't I ? We must not fail ! cried Ozma , courageously . 
Having come all this distance to free these poor people , it would be weak and cowardly in us to abandon the adventure . 
Therefore I will accept the Nome King's offer , and go at once into the royal palace . 
Come along , then , my dear , said the King , climbing down from his throne with some difficulty , because he was so fat I'll show you the way . 
He approached a wall of the cave and waved his hand . 
Instantly an opening appeared , through which Ozma , after a smiling farewell to her friends , boldly passed . 
She found herself in a splendid hall that was more beautiful and grand than anything she had ever beheld . 
The ceilings were composed of great arches that rose far above her head , and all the walls and floors were of polished marble exquisitely tinted in many colors . 
Thick velvet carpets were on the floor and heavy silken draperies covered the arches leading to the various rooms of the palace . 
Ozma passed from one room to another , greatly delighted by all she saw . 
There were vases , and figures of men and animals , and graven platters and bowls , and mosaics of precious gems , and many other things . 
Pictures , too , were on the walls , and the underground palace was quite a museum of rare and curious and costly objects . 
After her first hasty examination of the rooms Ozma began to wonder which of all the numerous ornaments they contained were the transformations of the royal family of Ev . 
There was nothing to guide her , for everything seemed without a spark of life . 
No wonder the cunning monarch laughed good naturedly with his visitors , when he knew how easily they might be entrapped . 
But Ozma , having undertaken the venture , would not abandon it . 
She looked at a silver candelabra that had ten branches , and thought This may be the Queen of Ev and her ten children . 
So she touched it and uttered aloud the word Ev , as the Nome King had instructed her to do when she guessed . 
But the candelabra remained as it was before . 
Then she wandered into another room and touched a china lamb , thinking it might be one of the children she sought . 
But again she was unsuccessful . 
She resolved not to be hasty , and strolled through all the rooms once more , gazing earnestly upon the various ornaments and trying to decide which she would touch . 
Finally , in despair , she decided to leave it entirely to chance . 
She faced the doorway of a room , shut her eyes tightly , and then , thrusting aside the heavy draperies , she advanced blindly with her right arm outstretched before her . 
Slowly , softly she crept forward until her hand came in contact with an object upon a small round table . 
She did not know what it was , but in a low voice she pronounced the word Ev . 
The rooms were quite empty of life after that . 
The Nome King had gained a new ornament . 
For upon the edge of the table rested a pretty grasshopper , that seemed to have been formed from a single emerald . 
It was all that remained of Ozma of Oz . 
In the throne room just beyond the palace the Nome King suddenly looked up and smiled . 
Next ! he said , in his pleasant voice . 
Dorothy , the Scarecrow , and the Tin Woodman , who had been sitting in anxious silence , each gave a start of dismay and stared into one another's eyes . 
Has she failed ? asked Tiktok . 
So it seems , answered the little monarch , cheerfully . 
But that is no reason one of you should not succeed . 
The next may have twelve guesses , instead of eleven , for there are now twelve persons transformed into ornaments . 
Well , well ! Which of you goes next ? I'll go , said Dorothy . 
Not so , replied the Tin Woodman . 
As commander of Ozma's army , it is my privilege to follow her and attempt her rescue . 
Away you go , then , said the Scarecrow . 
But be careful , old friend . 
I will , promised the Tin Woodman and then he followed the Nome King to the entrance to the palace and the rock closed behind him . 
The Nome King Laughs In a moment the King returned to his throne and relighted his pipe , and the rest of the little band of adventurers settled themselves for another long wait . 
Suddenly the Nome King began laughing . 
Ha , ha , ha ! He , he , he ! Ho , ho , ho ! What's happened ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Why , your friend , the Tin Woodman , has become the funniest thing you can imagine , replied the King , wiping the tears of merriment from his eyes . 
No one would ever believe he could make such an amusing ornament . 
Next ! They gazed at each other with sinking hearts . 
One of the generals began to weep dolefully . 
What are you crying for ? asked the Scarecrow , indignant at such a display of weakness . 
He owed me six weeks back pay , said the general , and I hate to lose him . 
Then you shall go and find him , declared the Scarecrow . 
Me ! cried the general , greatly alarmed . 
It is your duty to follow your commander . 
March ! I won't , said the general . 
I'd like to , of course but I just simply WON'T . 
The Scarecrow looked enquiringly at the Nome King . 
Never mind , said the jolly monarch . 
If he doesn't care to enter the palace and make his guesses I'll throw him into one of my fiery furnaces . 
I'll go ! of course I'm going , yelled the general , as quick as scat . 
Where is the entrance where is it ? Let me go at once ! So the Nome King escorted him into the palace , and again returned to await the result . 
What the general did , no one can tell but it was not long before the King called for the next victim , and a colonel was forced to try his fortune . 
Thus , one after another , all of the twenty six officers filed into the palace and made their guesses and became ornaments . 
Meantime the King ordered refreshments to be served to those waiting , and at his command a rudely shaped Nome entered , bearing a tray . 
Of all the party which had started upon this adventure , the little Kansas girl was now left alone with the Scarecrow , Tiktok , and the private for counsellors and companions . 
Presently the hen espied a hollow underneath the King's rocky throne , and crept into it unnoticed . 
She could still hear the chattering of those around her , but it was almost dark underneath the throne , so that soon she had fallen fast asleep . 
They waited a long time , for the private was in no hurry to become an ornament and made his guesses very slowly . 
Is it so very late ? asked Dorothy . 
Why , it is after midnight , said the King , and that strikes me as being late enough . 
There is neither night nor day in my kingdom , because it is under the earth's surface , where the sun does not shine . 
But we have to sleep , just the same as the up stairs people do , and for my part I'm going to bed in a few minutes . 
Indeed , it was not long after this that the private made his last guess . 
Of course he guessed wrongly , and of course he at once became an ornament . 
So the King was greatly pleased , and clapped his hands to summon his Chief Steward . 
Show these guests to some of the sleeping apartments , he commanded , and be quick about it , too , for I'm dreadfully sleepy myself . 
You've no business to sit up so late , replied the Steward , gruffly . 
You'll be as cross as a griffin tomorrow morning . 
His Majesty made no answer to this remark , and the Chief Steward led Dorothy through another doorway into a long hall , from which several plain but comfortable sleeping rooms opened . 
The little girl was given the first room , and the Scarecrow and Tiktok the next although they never slept and the Lion and the Tiger the third . 
The Sawhorse hobbled after the Steward into a fourth room , to stand stiffly in the center of it until morning . 
When the Chief Steward had left them alone the Scarecrow remarked , sadly I am in great sorrow over the loss of my old comrade , the Tin Woodman . 
We have had many dangerous adventures together , and escaped them all , and now it grieves me to know he has become an ornament , and is lost to me forever . 
He was al ways an or na ment to so ci e ty , said Tiktok . 
True but now the Nome King laughs at him , and calls him the funniest ornament in all the palace . 
It will hurt my poor friend's pride to be laughed at , continued the Scarecrow , sadly . 
We will make rath er ab surd or na ments , our selves , to mor row , observed the machine , in his monotonous voice . 
Just then Dorothy ran into their room , in a state of great anxiety , crying Where's Billina ? Have you seen Billina ? Is she here ? No , answered the Scarecrow . 
Then what has become of her ? asked the girl . 
Why , I thought she was with you , said the Scarecrow . 
Yet I do not remember seeing the yellow hen since she picked up the crumbs of cake . 
But it was fast closed and locked on the other side , and the heavy slab of rock proved to be so thick that no sound could pass through it . 
So Dorothy was forced to return to her chamber . 
The Cowardly Lion stuck his head into her room to try to console the girl for the loss of her feathered friend . 
The yellow hen is well able to take care of herself , said he so don't worry about her , but try to get all the sleep you can . 
It has been a long and weary day , and you need rest . 
I'll prob'ly get lots of rest tomorrow , when I become an orn'ment , said Dorothy , sleepily . 
But she lay down upon her couch , nevertheless , and in spite of all her worries was soon in the land of dreams . 
What ! cried his Majesty , in so enraged a voice that it awoke Billina , who was asleep under his throne . 
How dare you call me a fool ? Because I like to speak the truth , said the Steward . 
But suppose some of them happen to guess aright , persisted the Steward then you would lose your old ornaments and these new ones , too . 
There is no chance of their guessing aright , replied the monarch , with a laugh . 
There are many other colors , however , and the purple ones are scattered throughout the rooms , and are of many different shapes and sizes . 
Take my word for it , Steward , they will never think of choosing the purple ornaments . 
Billina , squatting under the throne , had listened carefully to all this talk , and now chuckled softly to herself as she heard the King disclose his secret . 
I did that because they came from the Emerald City , replied the King and I had no green ornaments in my collection until now . 
I think they will look quite pretty , mixed with the others . 
Don't you ? The Steward gave an angry grunt . 
Have your own way , since you are the King , he growled . 
But if you come to grief through your carelessness , remember that I told you so . 
Oh , cease your tiresome chatter ! commanded the King , getting angry again . 
Because you are my Chief Steward you have an idea you can scold me as much as you please . 
But the very next time you become impudent , I will send you to work in the furnaces , and get another Nome to fill your place . 
Now follow me to my chamber , for I am going to bed . 
And see that I am wakened early tomorrow morning . 
I want to enjoy the fun of transforming the rest of these people into ornaments . 
What color will you make the Kansas girl ? asked the Steward . 
Gray , I think , said his Majesty . 
And the Scarecrow and the machine man ? Oh , they shall be of solid gold , because they are so ugly in real life . 
Then the voices died away , and Billina knew that the King and his Steward had left the room . 
She fixed up some of her tail feathers that were not straight , and then tucked her head under her wing again and went to sleep . 
In the morning Dorothy and the Lion and Tiger were given their breakfast in their rooms , and afterward joined the King in his throne room . 
The Tiger complained bitterly that he was half starved , and begged to go into the palace and become an ornament , so that he would no longer suffer the pangs of hunger . 
Haven't you had your breakfast ? asked the Nome King . 
Oh , I had just a bite , replied the beast . 
What more do you want ? demanded the King . 
I want a fat baby , said the Hungry Tiger . 
A nice , plump , juicy , tender , fat baby . 
But , of course , if I had one , my conscience would not allow me to eat it . 
So I'll have to be an ornament and forget my hunger . 
Impossible ! exclaimed the King . 
I'll have no clumsy beasts enter my palace , to overturn and break all my pretty nick nacks . 
When the rest of your friends are transformed you can return to the upper world , and go about your business . 
As for that , we have no business , when our friends are gone , said the Lion . 
So we do not care much what becomes of us . 
Dorothy begged to be allowed to go first into the palace , but Tiktok firmly maintained that the slave should face danger before the mistress . 
The Scarecrow agreed with him in that , so the Nome King opened the door for the machine man , who tramped into the palace to meet his fate . 
Then his Majesty returned to his throne and puffed his pipe so contentedly that a small cloud of smoke formed above his head . 
Bye and bye he said I'm sorry there are so few of you left . 
Very soon , now , my fun will be over , and then for amusement I shall have nothing to do but admire my new ornaments . 
It seems to me , said Dorothy , that you are not so honest as you pretend to be . 
How's that ? asked the King . 
Why , you made us think it would be easy to guess what ornaments the people of Ev were changed into . 
It IS easy , declared the monarch , if one is a good guesser . 
But it appears that the members of your party are all poor guessers . 
What is Tiktok doing now ? asked the girl , uneasily . 
Nothing , replied the King , with a frown . 
He is standing perfectly still , in the middle of a room . 
Oh , I expect he's run down , said Dorothy . 
I forgot to wind him up this morning . 
How many guesses has he made ? All that he is allowed except one , answered the King . 
Suppose you go in and wind him up , and then you can stay there and make your own guesses . 
All right , said Dorothy . 
It is my turn next , declared the Scarecrow . 
Why , you don't want to go away and leave me all alone , do you ? asked the girl . 
Besides , if I go now I can wind up Tiktok , so that he can make his last guess . 
Very well , then , said the Scarecrow , with a sigh . 
The stillness of the place awed her , at first , and the child drew short breaths , and pressed her hand to her heart , and looked all around with wondering eyes . 
Slowly she passed through several rooms until she came upon Tiktok , standing motionless . 
It really seemed , then , that she had found a friend in this mysterious palace , so she hastened to wind up the machine man's action and speech and thoughts . 
Thank you , Dor oth y , were his first words . 
I have now one more guess to make . 
Oh , be very careful , Tiktok won't you ? cried the girl . 
But the Nome King has us in his power , and he has set a trap for us . 
I fear we are all lost . 
I fear so , too , said Dorothy , sadly . 
If Smith Tin ker had giv en me a guess ing clock work at tach ment , continued Tiktok , I might have de fied the Nome King . 
But my thoughts are plain and sim ple , and are not of much use in this case . 
Do the best you can , said Dorothy , encouragingly , and if you fail I will watch and see what shape you are changed into . 
So Tiktok touched a yellow glass vase that had daisies painted on one side , and he spoke at the same time the word Ev . 
So all she could do was to accept the hopeless task set her , and make her guesses and abide by the result . 
It can't hurt very much , she thought , for I haven't heard any of them scream or cry out not even the poor officers . 
It isn't the way I thought I'd turn out , at all but I s'pose it can't be helped . 
Timidly she touched an alabaster bowl and said Ev . 
That's one failure , anyhow , she thought . 
Done what ? asked the boy . 
Saved myself from being an ornament , replied the girl , with a laugh , and saved you from being forever a purple kitten . 
A purple kitten ? he repeated . 
There IS no such thing . 
I know , she answered . 
But there was , a minute ago . 
Don't you remember standing on a corner of the mantel ? Of course not . 
I am a Prince of Ev , and my name is Evring , the little one announced , proudly . 
But my father , the King , sold my mother and all her children to the cruel ruler of the Nomes , and after that I remember nothing at all . 
A purple kitten can't be 'spected to remember , Evring , said Dorothy . 
But now you are yourself again , and I'm going to try to save some of your brothers and sisters , and perhaps your mother , as well . 
She seized the child's hand and eagerly hurried here and there , trying to decide which object to choose next . 
The third guess was another failure , and so was the fourth and the fifth . 
Little Evring could not imagine what she was doing , but he trotted along beside her very willingly , for he liked the new companion he had found . 
Now she might return to the terrible Nome King in safety , carrying with her the prize she had won in the person of the fair haired boy . 
Then the monarch exclaimed , in a tone of satisfaction Very good ! Who is very good ? asked the Scarecrow . 
He won't need to be wound up any more , for he has now become a very neat ornament . 
How about Dorothy ? the Scarecrow enquired . 
Oh , she will begin to guess , pretty soon , said the King , cheerfully . 
And then she will join my collection , and it will be your turn . 
Good gracious ! What's that ? he yelled . 
Why , it's Billina , said the Scarecrow . 
What do you mean by making a noise like that ? shouted the King , angrily , as the yellow hen came from under the throne and strutted proudly about the room . 
I've got a right to cackle , I guess , replied Billina . 
I've just laid my egg . 
What ! Laid an egg ! In my throne room ! How dare you do such a thing ? asked the King , in a voice of fury . 
I lay eggs wherever I happen to be , said the hen , ruffling her feathers and then shaking them into place . 
But thunder ation ! Don't you know that eggs are poison ? roared the King , while his rock colored eyes stuck out in great terror . 
Poison ! well , I declare , said Billina , indignantly . 
I'll have you know all my eggs are warranted strictly fresh and up to date . 
Poison , indeed ! You don't understand , retorted the little monarch , nervously . 
Eggs belong only to the outside world to the world on the earth's surface , where you came from . 
Here , in my underground kingdom , they are rank poison , as I said , and we Nomes can't bear them around . 
Well , you'll have to bear this one around , declared Billina for I've laid it . 
Where ? asked the King . 
Under your throne , said the hen . 
The King jumped three feet into the air , so anxious was he to get away from the throne . 
Take it away ! Take it away at once ! he shouted . 
I can't , said Billina . 
I'll take the egg , said the Scarecrow . 
I'm making a collection of Billina's eggs . 
There's one in my pocket now , that she laid yesterday . 
Don't take the egg unless the King will allow me to enter the palace and guess as the others have done , said Billina . 
Pshaw ! returned the King . 
How could you guess my enchantments ? I can try , I suppose , said Billina . 
And , if I fail , you will have another ornament . 
A pretty ornament you'd make , wouldn't you ? growled the King . 
But you shall have your way . 
It will properly punish you for daring to lay an egg in my presence . 
After the Scarecrow is enchanted you shall follow him into the palace . 
But how will you touch the objects ? With my claws , said the hen and I can speak the word 'Ev' as plainly as anyone . 
Also I must have the right to guess the enchantments of my friends , and to release them if I succeed . 
Very well , said the King . 
Then , said Billina to the Scarecrow , you may get the egg . 
Just then a bell above the throne rang briskly , and the King gave another nervous jump . 
Well , well ! said he , with a rueful face the girl has actually done it . 
Done what ? asked the Scarecrow . 
She has made one guess that is right , and broken one of my neatest enchantments . 
By ricketty , it's too bad ! I never thought she would do it . 
Do I understand that she will now return to us in safety ? enquired the Scarecrow , joyfully wrinkling his painted face into a broad smile . 
Of course , said the King , fretfully pacing up and down the room . 
I always keep my promises , no matter how foolish they are . 
But I shall make an ornament of the yellow hen to replace the one I have just lost . 
Perhaps you will , and perhaps you won't , murmured Billina , calmly . 
I may surprise you by guessing right . 
Guessing right ? snapped the King . 
The Scarecrow welcomed the girl with a close embrace , and he would have embraced Evring , too , in his delight . 
But the little Prince was shy , and shrank away from the painted Scarecrow because he did not yet know his many excellent qualities . 
But there was little time for the friends to talk , because the Scarecrow must now enter the palace . 
Dorothy's success had greatly encouraged him , and they both hoped he would manage to make at least one correct guess . 
So he became a solid gold card receiver , and the beautiful but terrible palace awaited it's next visitor . 
It's all over , remarked the King , with a sigh of satisfaction and it has been a very amusing performance , except for the one good guess the Kansas girl made . 
I am richer by a great many pretty ornaments . 
It is my turn , now , said Billina , briskly . 
Oh , I'd forgotten you , said the King . 
But you needn't go if you don't wish to . 
I will be generous , and let you off . 
No you won't , replied the hen . 
I insist upon having my guesses , as you promised . 
Then go ahead , you absurd feathered fool ! grumbled the King , and he caused the opening that led to the palace to appear once more . 
Don't go , Billina , said Dorothy , earnestly . 
It isn't easy to guess those orn'ments , and only luck saved me from being one myself . 
Stay with me and we'll go back to the Land of Ev together . 
I'm sure this little Prince will give us a home . 
Indeed I will , said Evring , with much dignity . 
Don't worry , my dear , cried Billina , with a cluck that was meant for a laugh . 
I may not be human , but I'm no fool , if I AM a chicken . 
Oh , Billina ! said Dorothy , you haven't been a chicken in a long time . 
Not since you you've been grown up . 
Perhaps that's true , answered Billina , thoughtfully . 
I won't say good bye , because I'm coming back . 
Keep up your courage , for I'll see you a little later . 
Then Billina gave several loud cluck clucks that seemed to make the fat little King MORE nervous than ever , and marched through the entrance into the enchanted palace . 
I hope I've seen the last of THAT bird , declared the monarch , seating himself again in his throne and mopping the perspiration from his forehead with his rock colored handkerchief . 
Hens are bothersome enough at their best , but when they can talk they're simply dreadful . 
Billina's my friend , said Dorothy quietly . 
She may not always be 'zactly polite but she MEANS well , I'm sure . 
Billina had a right to feel important for she alone shared the Nome King's secret and knew how to tell the objects that were transformations from those that had never been alive . 
The green ornaments she did not bother to count , for she thought she could find them all when the time came . 
Finally , having made a survey of the entire palace and enjoyed its splendor , the yellow hen returned to one of the rooms where she had noticed a large purple footstool . 
She placed a claw upon this and said Ev , and at once the footstool vanished and a lovely lady , tall and slender and most beautifully robed , stood before her . 
The lady's eyes were round with astonishment for a moment , for she could not remember her transformation , nor imagine what had restored her to life . 
Good morning , ma'am , said Billina , in her sharp voice . 
You're looking quite well , considering your age . 
Who speaks ? demanded the Queen of Ev , drawing herself up proudly . 
But the name doesn't matter . 
I've saved you from the Nome King , and you are a slave no longer . 
Then I thank you for the gracious favor , said the Queen , with a graceful courtesy . 
But , my children tell me , I beg of you where are my children ? and she clasped her hands in anxious entreaty . 
Don't worry , advised Billina , pecking at a tiny bug that was crawling over the chair back . 
Just at present they are out of mischief and perfectly safe , for they can't even wiggle . 
What mean you , O kindly stranger ? asked the Queen , striving to repress her anxiety . 
They're enchanted , said Billina , just as you have been all , that is , except the little fellow Dorothy picked out . 
And the chances are that they have been good boys and girls for some time , because they couldn't help it . 
Oh , my poor darlings ! cried the Queen , with a sob of anguish . 
Not at all , returned the hen . 
Don't let their condition make you unhappy , ma'am , because I'll soon have them crowding 'round to bother and worry you as naturally as ever . 
Come with me , if you please , and I'll show you how pretty they look . 
She flew down from her perch and walked into the next room , the Queen following . 
As she passed a low table a small green grasshopper caught her eye , and instantly Billina pounced upon it and snapped it up in her sharp bill . 
For grasshoppers are a favorite food with hens , and they usually must be caught quickly , before they can hop away . 
It might easily have been the end of Ozma of Oz , had she been a real grasshopper instead of an emerald one . 
But Billina found the grasshopper hard and lifeless , and suspecting it was not good to eat she quickly dropped it instead of letting it slide down her throat . 
I might have known better , she muttered to herself , for where there is no grass there can be no live grasshoppers . 
This is probably one of the King's transformations . 
Evanna ! cried the Queen , my own Evanna ! and she clasped the girl to her bosom and covered her face with kisses . 
That's all right , said Billina , contentedly . 
The Princesses were named , Evanna , Evrose , Evella , Evirene and Evedna , while the Princes were Evrob , Evington , Evardo and Evroland . 
Of these Evardo was the eldest and would inherit his father's throne and be crowned King of Ev when he returned to his own country . 
He was a grave and quiet youth , and would doubtless rule his people wisely and with justice . 
Billina , having restored all of the royal family of Ev to their proper forms , now began to select the green ornaments which were the transformations of the people of Oz . 
Now , said Billina , I must find Ozma . 
She is sure to be here , somewhere , and of course she is green , being from Oz . 
So look around , you stupid soldiers , and help me in my search . 
For a while , however , they could discover nothing more that was green . 
Of course it's the grasshopper ! exclaimed Billina . 
I declare , I'm nearly as stupid as these brave soldiers . 
Wait here for me , and I'll go back and get it . 
But where are my friends , the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ? asked the girl Ruler , when these courtesies had been exchanged . 
I'll hunt them up , replied Billina . 
The Scarecrow is solid gold , and so is Tiktok but I don't exactly know what the Tin Woodman is , because the Nome King said he had been transformed into something funny . 
Ozma eagerly assisted the hen in her quest , and soon the Scarecrow and the machine man , being ornaments of shining gold , were discovered and restored to their accustomed forms . 
But , search as they might , in no place could they find a funny ornament that might be the transformation of the Tin Woodman . 
Perhaps he won't , suggested Billina . 
He must , returned Ozma , firmly . 
The King is a villain , declared the Scarecrow . 
His laugh is worse than another man's frown , said the private , with a shudder . 
I thought he was hon est , but I was mis tak en , remarked Tiktok . 
My thoughts are us u al ly cor rect , but it is Smith Tin ker's fault if they some times go wrong or do not work prop er ly . 
Smith Tinker made a very good job of you , said Ozma , kindly . 
I do not think they should be blamed if you are not quite perfect . 
Thank you , replied Tiktok . 
Then , said Billina , in her brisk little voice , let us all go back to the Nome King , and see what he has to say for himself . 
So they started for the entrance , Ozma going first , with the Queen and her train of little Princes and Princesses following . 
Then came Tiktok , and the Scarecrow with Billina perched upon his straw stuffed shoulder . 
The twenty seven officers and the private brought up the rear . 
As they reached the hall the doors flew open before them but then they all stopped and stared into the domed cavern with faces of astonishment and dismay . 
For the room was filled with the mail clad warriors of the Nome King , rank after rank standing in orderly array . 
The electric lights upon their brows gleamed brightly , their battle axes were poised as if to strike down their foes yet they remained motionless as statues , awaiting the word of command . 
And in the center of this terrible army sat the little King upon his throne of rock . 
But he neither smiled nor laughed . 
Instead , his face was distorted with rage , and most dreadful to behold . 
Perhaps the little monarch could not be more furious than he was before , but the girl's laughter nearly drove him frantic , and he roared at her like a savage beast . 
When they had nearly filled the throne room they formed ranks in the big underground cavern below , and then stood still until they were told what to do next . 
Seize that girl ! shouted the King to his captain , and a group of warriors sprang forward to obey . 
But both the Lion and Tiger snarled so fiercely and bared their strong , sharp teeth so threateningly , that the men drew back in alarm . 
Don't mind them ! cried the Nome King they cannot leap beyond the places where they now stand . 
But they can bite those who attempt to touch the girl , said the captain . 
I'll fix that , answered the King . 
I'll enchant them again , so that they can't open their jaws . 
He stepped out of the throne to do this , but just then the Sawhorse ran up behind him and gave the fat monarch a powerful kick with both his wooden hind legs . 
Ow ! Murder ! Treason ! yelled the King , who had been hurled against several of his warriors and was considerably bruised . 
Who did that ? I did , growled the Sawhorse , viciously . 
You let Dorothy alone , or I'll kick you again . 
We'll see about that , replied the King , and at once he waved his hand toward the Sawhorse and muttered a magical word . 
Well , well ! said the King , sitting up and looking surprised . 
Why didn't my magic belt work , I wonder ? The creature is made of wood , replied the captain . 
Your magic will not work on wood , you know . 
Ah , I'd forgotten that , said the King , getting up and limping to his throne . 
Very well , let the girl alone . 
She can't escape us , anyway . 
At that moment the doors that led to the palace flew open and the people of Ev and the people of Oz were disclosed to view . 
They paused , astonished , at sight of the warriors and the angry Nome King , seated in their midst . 
Surrender ! cried the King , in a loud voice . 
Go 'long ! answered Billina , from the Scarecrow's shoulder . 
You promised me that if I guessed correctly my friends and I might depart in safety . 
And you always keep your promises . 
I said you might leave the palace in safety , retorted the King and so you may , but you cannot leave my dominions . 
That will be the end of me , all right , said the Scarecrow , sorrowfully . 
One small blaze , blue or green , is enough to reduce me to an ash heap . 
Do you surrender ? demanded the King . 
Billina whispered something in the Scarecrow's ear that made him smile and put his hands in his jacket pockets . 
No ! returned Ozma , boldly answering the King . 
If we fight we may get excited . 
Would it not be well for us to avoid this grave danger ? Soldiers should not have heart disease , said Ozma . 
Private soldiers are not , I believe , afflicted that way , declared another general , twirling his moustache thoughtfully . 
If your Royal Highness desires , we will order our private to attack yonder warriors . 
Do so , replied Ozma . 
For ward march ! cried all the generals , with one voice . 
For ward march ! yelled the colonels . 
For ward march ! shouted the majors . 
For ward march ! commanded the captains . 
And at that the private leveled his spear and dashed furiously upon the foe . 
Then the captain brought down his battle axe with such a strong blow that the private's spear was shattered and knocked from his grasp , and he was helpless to fight any longer . 
It struck him squarely in his left eye , where the egg smashed and scattered , as eggs will , and covered his face and hair and beard with its sticky contents . 
Help , help ! screamed the King , clawing with his fingers at the egg , in a struggle to remove it . 
An egg ! an egg ! Run for your lives ! shouted the captain of the Nomes , in a voice of horror . 
The King was unable to flee because he could not see which way to run so he stood still and howled and shouted and screamed in abject fear . 
Quick , Dorothy quick ! . 
The Fate of the Tin Woodman Dorothy obeyed . 
Just then the Chief Steward rushed in with a sponge and a bowl of water , and began mopping away the broken eggs from his master's face . 
They were strictly fresh and above suspicion , said Billina . 
You ought to be glad to get them . 
I'll transform you all into scorpions ! cried the King , angrily , and began waving his arms and muttering magic words . 
But none of the people became scorpions , so the King stopped and looked at them in surprise . 
What's wrong ? he asked . 
Why , you are not wearing your magic belt , replied the Chief Steward , after looking the King over carefully . 
Where is it ? What have you done with it ? The Nome King clapped his hand to his waist , and his rock colored face turned white as chalk . 
It's gone , he cried , helplessly . 
Billina has saved you from your troubles , and now we will leave this drea'ful place , and return to Ev as soon as poss'ble . 
But the Nome King did not join them . 
He crept back onto his throne like a whipped dog , and lay there bitterly bemoaning his defeat . 
But we have not yet found my faithful follower , the Tin Woodman , said Ozma to Dorothy , and without him I do not wish to go away . 
Nor I , replied Dorothy , quickly . 
Wasn't he in the palace ? He must be there , said Billina but I had no clue to guide me in guessing the Tin Woodman , so I must have missed him . 
We will go back into the rooms , said Dorothy . 
This magic belt , I am sure , will help us to find our dear old friend . 
So she re entered the palace , the doors of which still stood open , and everyone followed her except the Nome King , the Queen of Ev and Prince Evring . 
The mother had taken the little Prince in her lap and was fondling and kissing him lovingly , for he was her youngest born . 
No result followed this attempt , so Dorothy went into another room and repeated it , and so through all the rooms of the palace . 
Yet the Tin Woodman did not appear to them , nor could they imagine which among the thousands of ornaments was their transformed friend . 
Give it back to me and I will let you go free you and all the people who came with you . 
As for the royal family of Ev , they are my slaves , and shall remain here . 
I shall keep the belt , said Dorothy . 
But how can you escape , without my consent ? asked the King . 
Easily enough , answered the girl . 
All we need to do is to walk out the way that we came in . 
Oh , that's all , is it ? sneered the King . 
Well , where is the passage through which you entered this room ? They all looked around , but could not discover the place , for it had long since been closed . 
Dorothy , however , would not be dismayed . 
The King was amazed , and all the others overjoyed . 
Why , then , if the belt obeys you , were we unable to discover the Tin Woodman ? asked Ozma . 
I can't imagine , said Dorothy . 
Only by keeping the belt , Dorothy , will you ever be able to leave this place in safety . 
I think that is true , said the Scarecrow . 
But I have another idea , due to my excellent brains . 
A goose egg ! echoed the horrified King . 
How dreadful ! Well , a goose egg you will be unless you go and fetch us the ornament we want , declared Billina , with a joyful chuckle . 
You can see for yourself that Dorothy is able to use the magic belt all right , added the Scarecrow . 
The Nome King thought it over and finally consented , for he did not want to be a goose egg . 
But when the Nome King came back he brought nothing with him except a puzzled and anxious expression upon his face . 
He's gone ! he said . 
The Tin Woodman is nowhere in the palace . 
Are you sure ? asked Ozma , sternly . 
I'm very sure , answered the King , trembling , for I know just what I transformed him into , and exactly where he stood . 
But he is not there , and please don't change me into a goose egg , because I've done the best I could . 
If he is not here , we cannot rescue him , agreed the Scarecrow , sadly . 
Poor Nick ! I wonder what has become of him . 
And he owed me six weeks back pay ! said one of the generals , wiping the tears from his eyes with his gold laced coat sleeve . 
Very sorrowfully they determined to return to the upper world without their former companion , and so Ozma gave the order to begin the march through the passage . 
The army went first , and then the royal family of Ev , and afterward came Dorothy , Ozma , Billina , the Scarecrow and Tiktok . 
Instantly the foremost warriors became eggs , which rolled upon the floor of the cavern in such numbers that those behind could not advance without stepping upon them . 
But , when they saw the eggs , all desire to advance departed from the warriors , and they turned and fled madly into the cavern , and refused to go back again . 
Our friends had no further trouble in reaching the end of the passage , and soon were standing in the outer air upon the gloomy path between the two high mountains . 
But the way to Ev lay plainly before them , and they fervently hoped that they had seen the last of the Nome King and of his dreadful palace . 
The cavalcade was led by Ozma , mounted on the Cowardly Lion , and the Queen of Ev , who rode upon the back of the Tiger . 
The children of the Queen walked behind her , hand in hand . 
Dorothy rode the Sawhorse , while the Scarecrow walked and commanded the army in the absence of the Tin Woodman . 
Presently the way began to lighten and more of the sunshine to come in between the two mountains . 
And before long they heard the thump ! thump ! thump ! of the giant's hammer upon the road . 
How may we pass the monstrous man of iron ? asked the Queen , anxious for the safety of her children . 
But Dorothy solved the problem by a word to the magic belt . 
The giant paused , with his hammer held motionless in the air , thus allowing the entire party to pass between his cast iron legs in safety . 
Really the Nomes had nothing to laugh at , since the defeat of their King . 
On the other side they found Ozma's golden chariot , standing as they had left it . 
Soon the Lion and the Tiger were harnessed to the beautiful chariot , in which was enough room for Ozma and the Queen and six of the royal children . 
Little Evring preferred to ride with Dorothy upon the Sawhorse , which had a long back . 
The Prince had recovered from his shyness and had become very fond of the girl who had rescued him , so they were fast friends and chatted pleasantly together as they rode along . 
I would be quite content , said the Scarecrow to Tiktok , were only the Tin Woodman with us . 
But it breaks my heart to leave him behind . 
He was a fine fel low , replied Tiktok , al though his ma ter i al was not ve ry du ra ble . 
Oh , tin is an excellent material , the Scarecrow hastened to say and if anything ever happened to poor Nick Chopper he was always easily soldered . 
Besides , he did not have to be wound up , and was not liable to get out of order . 
I some times wish , said Tiktok , that I was stuffed with straw , as you are . 
It is hard to be made of cop per . 
I have no reason to complain of my lot , replied the Scarecrow . 
A little fresh straw , now and then , makes me as good as new . 
But I can never be the polished gentleman that my poor departed friend , the Tin Woodman , was . 
What is that ? asked Billina , who had been obliged to flutter her wings in order to keep her seat upon the head of the frightened Sawhorse . 
That's my whistle , said Prince Evring , holding it out upon his hand . 
It was in the shape of a little fat pig , made of tin and painted green . 
The whistle was in the tail of the pig . 
Where did you get it ? asked the yellow hen , closely examining the toy with her bright eyes . 
Why , I picked it up in the Nome King's palace , while Dorothy was making her guesses , and I put it in my pocket , answered the little Prince . 
Billina laughed or at least she made the peculiar cackle that served her for a laugh . 
Why , the Prince had him in his pocket , cried Billina , cackling again . 
I did not ! protested little Evring . 
I only took the whistle . 
Well , then , watch me , returned the hen , and reaching out a claw she touched the whistle and said Ev . 
Swish ! Good afternoon , said the Tin Woodman , taking off his funnel cap and bowing to Dorothy and the Prince . 
I think I must have been asleep for the first time since I was made of tin , for I do not remember our leaving the Nome King . 
You have been enchanted , answered the girl , throwing an arm around her old friend and hugging him tight in her joy . 
But it's all right , now . 
I want my whistle ! said the little Prince , beginning to cry . 
The whistle is lost , but you may have another when you get home . 
Then they had to make way for Ozma to welcome the tin man , and the army caught sight of him and set up a cheer , and everybody was delighted and happy . 
For the Tin Woodman was a great favorite with all who knew him , and his sudden recovery after they had thought he was lost to them forever was indeed a pleasant surprise . 
Before long the cavalcade arrived at the royal palace , where a great crowd of people had gathered to welcome their Queen and her ten children . 
There was much shouting and cheering , and the people threw flowers in their path , and every face wore a happy smile . 
They found the Princess Langwidere in her mirrored chamber , where she was admiring one of her handsomest heads one with rich chestnut hair , dreamy walnut eyes and a shapely hickorynut nose . 
Then the Queen took her eldest son out upon a balcony that overlooked the crowd of subjects gathered below , and said to them Here is your future ruler , King Evardo Fifteenth . 
He is fifteen years of age , has fifteen silver buckles on his jacket and is the fifteenth Evardo to rule the land of Ev . 
The people shouted their approval fifteen times , and even the Wheelers , some of whom were present , loudly promised to obey the new King . 
The Emerald City Dorothy decided to accept Ozma's invitation to return with her to the Land of Oz . 
So she would go to Oz . 
Ozma also invited Billina to visit the Land of Oz , and the yellow hen was glad enough to go where new sights and scenes awaited her . 
They entered it in the Munchkin territory , and the King of the Munchkins met them at the border and welcomed Ozma with great respect , being very pleased by her safe return . 
Everywhere the people turned out to greet their beloved Ozma , and to hail joyfully the Scarecrow , the Tin Woodman and the Cowardly Lion , who were popular favorites . 
At one place , where they stopped to refresh themselves , Ozma accepted a bowl of milk from the hands of a pretty dairy maid . 
Then she looked at the girl more closely , and exclaimed Why , it's Jinjur isn't it ! Yes , your Highness , was the reply , as Jinjur dropped a low curtsy . 
I've married a man who owns nine cows , said Jinjur to Ozma , and now I am happy and contented and willing to lead a quiet life and mind my own business . 
Where is your husband ? asked Ozma . 
He is in the house , nursing a black eye , replied Jinjur , calmly . 
The foolish man would insist upon milking the red cow when I wanted him to milk the white one but he will know better next time , I am sure . 
I don't remember that building , said Dorothy . 
What is it ? That is the College of Art and Athletic Perfection , replied Ozma . 
I had it built quite recently , and the Woggle Bug is it's president . 
It keeps him busy , and the young men who attend the college are no worse off than they were before . 
You see , in this country are a number of youths who do not like to work , and the college is an excellent place for them . 
And now they came in sight of the Emerald City , and the people flocked out to greet their lovely ruler . 
There were several bands and many officers and officials of the realm , and a crowd of citizens in their holiday attire . 
Dorothy was presented with a pretty coronet and made a Princess of Oz , and Tiktok received two bracelets set with eight rows of very clear and sparkling emeralds . 
Then were placed the Scarecrow , the Tin Woodman and Tiktok , with baskets of lovely flowers before them , because they did not require food . 
But I have ordered him a dish of bread and molasses to eat when his work is done . 
Let him be sent for , said the girl ruler . 
The private now entered , saluting his officers and the royal Ozma very respectfully . 
What is your name , my man ? asked the girl . 
Omby Amby , answered the private . 
It is very expensive to hold so many offices , said the private , hesitating . 
I have no money with which to buy uniforms . 
You shall be supplied from the royal treasury , said Ozma . 
Then the private was given a seat at the table , where the other officers welcomed him cordially , and the feasting and merriment were resumed . 
Suddenly Jellia Jamb exclaimed There is nothing more to eat ! The Hungry Tiger has consumed everything ! But that is not the worst of it , declared the Tiger , mournfully . 
Somewhere or somehow , I've actually lost my appetite ! . 
Dorothy's Magic Belt Dorothy passed several very happy weeks in the Land of Oz as the guest of the royal Ozma , who delighted to please and interest the little Kansas girl . 
Many new acquaintances were formed and many old ones renewed , and wherever she went Dorothy found herself among friends . 
How curious ! she exclaimed , after watching the shifting scenes for a few moments . 
Yes , said Ozma , that is really a wonderful invention in magic . 
If I wish to see any part of the world or any person living , I need only express the wish and it is shown in the picture . 
May I use it ? asked Dorothy , eagerly . 
Of course , my dear . 
Then I'd like to see the old Kansas farm , and Aunt Em , said the girl . 
Instantly the well remembered farmhouse appeared in the picture , and Aunt Em could be seen quite plainly . 
She was engaged in washing dishes by the kitchen window and seemed quite well and contented . 
The hired men and the teams were in the harvest fields behind the house , and the corn and wheat seemed to the child to be in prime condition . 
Everything seems all right at home , said Dorothy , with a sigh of relief . 
Now I wonder what Uncle Henry is doing . 
He looked sad and lonely , and his hair was now quite white and his hands and face thin and wasted . 
Oh ! cried Dorothy , in an anxious voice , I'm sure Uncle Henry isn't getting any better , and it's because he is worried about me . 
Ozma , dear , I must go to him at once ! How can you ? asked Ozma . 
I don't know , replied Dorothy but let us go to Glinda the Good . 
I'm sure she will help me , and advise me how to get to Uncle Henry . 
Ozma readily agreed to this plan and caused the Sawhorse to be harnessed to a pretty green and pink phaeton , and the two girls rode away to visit the famous sorceress . 
Glinda received them graciously , and listened to Dorothy's story with attention . 
I have the magic belt , you know , said the little girl . 
If I buckled it around my waist and commanded it to take me to Uncle Henry , wouldn't it do it ? I think so , replied Glinda , with a smile . 
And then , continued Dorothy , if I ever wanted to come back here again , the belt would bring me . 
In that you are wrong , said the sorceress . 
The belt has magical powers only while it is in some fairy country , such as the Land of Oz , or the Land of Ev . 
But you would not find the magic belt around you when you arrived at your destination . 
What would become of it ? asked the girl . 
It would be lost , as were your silver shoes when you visited Oz before , and no one would ever see it again . 
And she can wish me transported to Uncle Henry without losing the belt . 
That is a wise plan , replied Glinda . 
This having been agreed upon , Dorothy bade good bye to all her friends . 
So she left him in Ozma's care . 
Billina , on the contrary , preferred the Land of Oz to any other country , and refused to accompany Dorothy . 
The bugs and ants that I find here are the finest flavored in the world , declared the yellow hen , and there are plenty of them . 
So here I shall end my days and I must say , Dorothy , my dear , that you are very foolish to go back into that stupid , humdrum world again . 
Uncle Henry needs me , said Dorothy , simply and every one except Billina thought it was right that she should go . 
Then the little girl stood on one of the big emeralds which decorated the courtyard , and after looking once again at each of her friends , waved her handkerchief . 
No , said Dorothy , I wasn't drowned at all . 
And I've come to nurse you and take care of you , Uncle Henry , and you must promise to get well as soon as poss'ble . 
Uncle Henry smiled and cuddled his little niece close in his lap . 
I'm better already , my darling , said he . 
