This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
The original book seems to have been very difficult to scan . 
The raw OCR output had lots of e c errors some missing open quotes too . 
I also noted some quoted paragraphs unseparated from the previous paragraphs , and fixed what I could find . 
In addition , vi peports there are some extra binary characters , but I didn't see them . 
Please advise if you find any errors . 
The world had appreciated what he had done , and had put much to his credit , and he was prepared to draw upon this grandly . 
he had shown himself a harder worker than others who were less careful of their appearance and of their manners . 
We have been told what the mother duck felt when her ugly duckling turned into a swan , but we have never considered how much the ugly duckling must have marvelled also . 
Carlton is probably the only living artist , a brother artist had said of him , who fails to appreciate how great his work is . 
He had never understood why such a responsibility had been intrusted to him . 
Carlton always felt as though some day some one would surely come along and say Look here , young man , this talent doesn't belong to you it's mine . 
There was not , in his opinion , at the present day any sufficiently pronounced method of declaring admiration for the many lovely women this world contained . 
That young woman on the right has a most interesting and beautiful face . 
I am very much afraid that she is the one . 
It would be too late then while now , in my free state , I can continue my , search without any sense of responsibility . 
Still I had assured myself that she was not the one . 
Well , some married woman would say , grimly , I hope you will get your deserts some day and you WILL , too . 
Some day some girl will make you suffer for this . 
Oh , that's all right , Carlton would answer , meekly . 
Lots of women have made me suffer , if that's what you think I need . 
Some day , the married woman would prophesy , you will care for a woman so much that you will have no eyes for any one else . 
That's the way it is when one is married . 
Then Carlton would go to the club and complain bitterly to one of his friends . 
How unfair married women are ! he would say . 
Do you suppose my pleasure in music would make me lose my pleasure in everything else ? Suppose I met and married a girl at twenty five . 
Is that going to make me forget all the women I knew before I met her ? I think not . 
It is only fair to the woman . 
Carlton was sitting in the club alone . 
He was leaving New York long before most of his friends could get away . 
He did not know just where he was going , and preferred not to know . 
He wished to have a complete holiday , and to see Europe as an idle tourist , and not as an artist with an eye to his own improvement . 
He had plenty of time and money he was sure to run across friends in the big cities , and acquaintances he could make or not , as he pleased , en route . 
He was not sorry to go . 
I wish , he said , gloomily , I didn't like people so well . 
It seems to cause them and me such a lot of trouble . 
He sighed , and stretched out his hand for a copy of one of the English illustrated papers . 
It had a fresher interest to him because the next number of it that he would see would be in the city in which it was printed . 
The paper in his hands was the St . 
James Budget , and it contained much fashionable intelligence concerning the preparations for a royal wedding which was soon to take place between members of two of the reigning families of Europe . 
He had hoped that he would find it less interesting at a second glance , but it did not prove to be so . 
The Princess Aline of Hohenwald , he read . 
She's probably engaged to one of those Johnnies beside her , and the Grand Duke of Hohenwald behind her must be her brother . 
Confound it ! he added , to himself . 
Carlton noted every detail of her tailor made gown , of her high mannish collar , of her tie , and even the rings on her hand . 
There was nothing about her of which he could fairly disapprove . 
She looks jolly too , he mused , in an injured tone and so very clever and of course she has a beautiful complexion . 
All those German girls have . 
Your Royal Highness is more than pretty , he said , bowing his head gravely . 
You look as a princess should look . 
I am sure it was one of your ancestors who discovered the dried pea under a dozen mattresses . 
He closed the paper , and sat for a moment with a perplexed smile of consideration . 
Waiter , he exclaimed , suddenly , send a messenger boy to Brentano's for a copy of the St . 
James Budget , and bring me the Almanach de Gotha from the library . 
It is a little fat red book on the table near the window . 
Then Carlton opened the paper again and propped it up against a carafe , and continued his critical survey of the Princess Aline . 
He seized the Almanach , when it came , with some eagerness . 
, he read , and in small type below it . 
grand ducale Hohenwald et de Grasse . 
Guillaume Albert Frederick Charles Louis , Grand Duc de Hohenwald et de Grasse , etc . 
That's the brother , right enough , muttered Carlton . 
And under the heading Soeurs he read . 
Victoria Beatrix Louise Helene , Alt . 
Nee a Grasse , Juin , . 
Twenty two years old , exclaimed Carlton . 
What a perfect age ! I could not have invented a better one . 
He looked from the book to the face before him . 
Now , my dear young lady , he said , I know all about YOU . 
Nolan , the young Irishman who did for Carlton , knew better than to move it when he found it there . 
Nolan approved highly of this last choice . 
He did not know which one of the three in the group it might be but they were all pretty , and their social standing was certainly distinguished . 
Guido , the Italian model who ruled over the studio , and Nolan were busily packing when Carlton entered . 
He always said that Guido represented him in his professional and Nolan in his social capacity . 
Guido cleaned the brushes and purchased the artists' materials Nolan cleaned his riding boots and bought his theatre and railroad tickets . 
Nolan , he went on , here is a telegram to send . 
Nolan would not have read a letter , but he looked upon telegrams as public documents , the reading of them as part of his perquisites . 
Where would a letter reach her ? MORTON CARLTON . 
The next morning Nolan carried to the express office a box containing two oil paintings on small canvases . 
They were addressed to the man in London who attended to the shipping and forwarding of Carlton's pictures in that town . 
There was a tremendous crowd on the New York . 
A man that he knew seized him by the arm as he was entering his cabin , and asked if he were crossing or just seeing people off . 
But you know her , I guess ? he asked , over his shoulder , as Carlton pushed his way after him down the deck . 
I know who she is , he said . 
Miss Edith Morris was surrounded by a treble circle of admiring friends , and seemed to be holding her own . 
They all stopped when Carlton came up , and looked at him rather closely , and those whom he knew seemed to mark the fact by a particularly hearty greeting . 
The man who had brought him up acted as though he had successfully accomplished a somewhat difficult and creditable feat . 
Carlton bowed himself away , leaving Miss Morris to her friends , and saying that she would probably have to see him later , whether she wished it or not . 
Mr. Abbey left the steamer when the whistle blew , and Carlton looked after him gratefully . 
Mrs. Downs and her niece proved to be experienced sailors , and faced the heavy sea that met the New York outside of Sandy Hook with unconcern . 
Carlton joined them , and they stood together leaning with their backs to the rail , and trying to fit the people who flitted past them to the names on the passenger list . 
The young lady in the sailor suit , said Miss Morris , gazing at the top of the smoke stack , is Miss Kitty Flood , of Grand Rapids . 
This is her first voyage , and she thinks a steamer is something like a yacht , and dresses for the part accordingly . 
She does not know that it is merely a moving hotel . 
I am afraid , said Carlton , to judge from her agitation , that hers is going to be what the professionals call a dressing room' part . 
I know he is the consul , because he comes from Fort Worth , Texas , and is therefore admirably fitted to speak either French or the native language of the island . 
Oh , we don't send consuls to Mauritius , laughed Miss Morris . 
Mauritius is one of those places from which you buy stamps , but no one really lives or goes there . 
Where are you going , may I ask ? inquired Carlton . 
We shall be a few days in London , and in Paris only long enough for some clothes , she replied . 
The trousseau , thought Carlton . 
Weeks is what she should have said . 
She seemed to be just and kindly minded , and , owing to her age , to combine the wider judgment of a man with the sympathetic interest of a woman . 
They had started knowing much about one another , and this and the necessary proximity of the ship hastened their acquaintance . 
The sea grew calmer the third day out , and the sun came forth and showed the decks as clean as bread boards . 
Carlton was sitting to leeward of Miss Morris , with a pipe between his teeth . 
He was warm , and at peace with the world . 
He had found his new acquaintance more than entertaining . 
She was even friendly , and treated him as though he were much her junior , as is the habit of young women lately married or who are about to be married . 
It spoils the effect for one . 
Next time he does it I am going to knock out the ashes of my pipe on the back of his neck . 
Miss Morris did not consider this worthy of comment , and there was a long lazy pause . 
Oh , I don't know . 
He said you were a Jekyll and Hyde . 
Which is Jekyll ? You see , I only know your professional side . 
You must try to find out for yourself by deduction , he said , as you picked out the other passengers . 
I am going to Grasse , he continued . 
It's the capital of Hohenwald . 
Do you know it ? Yes , she said we were there once for a few days . 
We went to see the pictures . 
I suppose you know that the old Duke , the father of the present one , ruined himself almost by buying pictures for the Grasse gallery . 
We were there at a bad time , though , when the palace was closed to visitors , and the gallery too . 
I suppose that is what is taking you there ? No , Carlton said , shaking his head . 
No , it is not the pictures . 
I am going to Grasse , he said , gravely , to see the young woman with whom I am in love . 
Miss Morris looked up in some surprise , and smiled consciously , with a natural feminine interest in an affair of love , and one which was a secret as well . 
Oh , she said , I beg your pardon we I had not heard of it . 
That's why I am going abroad . 
He was apparently in earnest , and waiting for her to make some comment . 
How very interesting ! was all she could think to say . 
Yes , when you know the details , it is , VERY interesting , he answered . 
She is the Princess Aline of Hohenwald , he explained , bowing his head as though he were making the two young ladies known to one another . 
She has several other names , six in all , and her age is twenty two . 
That is all I know about her . 
I saw her picture in an illustrated paper just before I sailed , and I made up my mind I would meet her , and here I am . 
If she is not in Grasse , I intend to follow her to wherever she may be . 
Only in this case , you see , said Carlton , I am following the happy Princess . 
No but seriously , though , said Miss Morris , what is it you mean ? Are you going to paint her portrait ? I never thought of that , exclaimed Carlton . 
I don't know but what your idea is a good one . 
Miss Morris , that's a great idea . 
He shook his head approvingly . 
I did not do wrong to confide in you , he said . 
It was perhaps taking a liberty but as you have not considered it as such , I am glad I spoke . 
Because I like her picture , and because she is a Princess . 
Well , upon my word , said Miss Morris , gazing at him with evident admiration , that's what my younger brother would call a distinctly sporting proposition . 
Only I don't see , she added , what her being a Princess has to do with it . 
You don't ? laughed Carlton , easily . 
That's the best part of it that's the plot . 
But with a Princess , you see , that is all eliminated . 
You can't marry a Princess , because they won't let you . 
Miss Morris regarded him doubtfully . 
She did not wish to prove herself too credulous . 
It isn't the thing some men would do , I admit , but it is exactly what any one who knows me would expect of me . 
I should describe it , having had acquaintance with the young man for some time , as being eminently characteristic . 
But they will HAVE to listen to me . 
You've been across since I saw you last . 
What did you do ? they'll ask , politely . 
That sounds interesting , doesn't it ? When you come to think of it , Carlton continued , meditatively , it is not so very remarkable . 
Well , I didn't know such devotion existed at this end of the century , she said it's quite nice and encouraging . 
I hope you will succeed , I am sure . 
I only wish we were going to be near enough to see how you get on . 
I have never been a confidante when there was a real Princess concerned , she said it makes it so much more amusing . 
May one ask what your plans are ? Carlton doubted if he had any plans as yet . 
I have to reach the ground first , he said , and after that I must reconnoitre . 
I may possibly adopt your idea , and ask to paint her portrait , only I dislike confusing my social and professional sides . 
As a matter of fact , though , he said , after a pause , laughing guiltily , I have done a little of that already . 
I prepared her , as it were , for my coming . 
I sent her studies of two pictures I made last winter in Berlin . 
One of the Prime Minister , and one of Ludwig , the tragedian at the Court Theatre . 
My idea was that it might help me , perhaps , if she knew something about me before I appeared in person . 
It was a sort of letter of introduction written by myself . 
Well , really , expostulated Miss Morris , you certainly woo in a royal way . 
I must see if I haven't some of my sister's photographs in my trunk . 
She is considered very beautiful . 
Well , you wait until you see this particular portrait , and you will understand it better , said Carlton . 
Hedges are better than barbed wire fences , aren't they ? he said . 
You see that girl picking wild flowers from one of them ? She looks just as though she were posing for a picture for an illustrated paper . 
I am sure he is waiting for her and here comes a coach , he ran on . 
Don't the red wheels look well against the hedges ? It's a pretty little country , England , isn't it ? like a private park or a model village . 
I am glad to get back to it I am glad to see the three and six signs with the little slanting dash between the shillings and pennies . 
Yes , even the steam rollers and the man with the red flag in front are welcome . 
I suppose , said Mrs. Downs , it's because one has been so long on the ocean that the ride to London seems so interesting . 
It always pays me for the entire trip . 
Yes , she said , with a sigh , in spite of the patent medicine signs they have taken to putting up all along the road . 
It seems a pity they should adopt our bad habits instead of our good ones . 
They are a bit slow at adopting anything , commented Carlton . 
My dear Edith , remonstrated her aunt , Mr. Carlton was telling us Yes , I know , exclaimed Miss Morris , laughing , but this interests him much more than electric lights . 
Who do you think is in London ? she cried , raising her eyes to his , and pausing for proper dramatic effect . 
The Princess Aline of Hohenwald ! No ? shouted Carlton . 
Yes , Miss Morris answered , mocking his tone . 
The Queen's Drawing room' em e m on her right was the Princess of Wales' em m . 
Oh , I can't find it no yes , here it is . 
Next to her stood the Princess Aline of Hohenwald . 
She wore a dress of white silk , with train of silver brocade trimmed with fur . 
Ornaments emeralds and diamonds orders Victoria and Albert , jubilee Commemoration Medal , Coburg and Gotha , and Hohenwald and Grasse . 
By Jove ! cried Carlton , excitedly . 
I say , is that really there ? Let me see it , please , for myself . 
Miss Morris handed him the paper , with her finger on the paragraph , and picking up another , began a search down its columns . 
You are right , exclaimed Carlton , solemnly it's she , sure enough . 
And here I've been within two hours of her and didn't know it ? Miss Morris gave another triumphant cry , as though she had discovered a vein of gold . 
Carlton sat staring forward , with his hands on his knees , and with his eyes open wide from excitement . 
He presented so unusual an appearance of bewilderment and delight that Mrs. Downs looked at him and at her niece for some explanation . 
The young lady seems to interest you , said she , tentatively . 
He turned and waved his hands at the passing landscape . 
Every minute brings us nearer together . 
And you didn't feel it in the air ! mocked Miss Morris , laughing . 
You are a pretty poor sort of a man to let a girl tell you where to find the woman you love . 
Carlton did not answer , but stared at her very seriously and frowned intently . 
Now I have got to begin all over again and readjust things , he said . 
We might have guessed she would be in London , on account of this royal wedding . 
It is a great pity it isn't later in the season , when there would be more things going on and more chances of meeting her . 
Now they will all be interested in themselves , and , being extremely exclusive , no one who isn't a cousin to the bridegroom or an Emperor would have any chance at all . 
Still , I can see her ! I can look at her , and that's something . 
It is better than a photograph , anyway , said Miss Morris . 
They will be either at Buckingham Palace or at Windsor , or they will stop at Brown's , said Carlton . 
All royalties go to Brown's . 
When the train drew up at Victoria Station , Carlton directed Nolan to take his things to Brown's Hotel , but not to unload them until he had arrived . 
Then he drove with the ladies to Cox's , and saw them settled there . 
He promised to return at once to dine , and to tell them what he had discovered in his absence . 
You've got to help me in this , Miss Morris , he said , nervously . 
I am beginning to feel that I am not worthy of her . 
Yes , I know , said Carlton , doubtfully but it's a bit sudden , isn't it ? Oh , I am ashamed of you ! You are frightened . 
No , not frightened , exactly , said the painter . 
I think it's just natural emotion . 
Is the Duke of Hohenwald stopping at your hotel ? he asked . 
The bareheaded man answered that he was . 
All right , Nolan , cried Carlton . 
They can take in the trunks . 
Hearing this , the bareheaded man hastened to help Carlton to alight . 
Carlton stopped midway , with one foot on the step and the other in the air . 
The deuce they are ! he exclaimed and which is he began , eagerly , and then remembering himself , dropped back on the cushions of the hansom . 
He broke into the little dining room at Cox's in so excited a state that two dignified old gentlemen who were eating there sat open mouthed in astonished disapproval . 
Mrs. Downs and Miss Morris had just come down stairs . 
I have seen her ! Carlton cried , ecstatically only half an hour in the town , and I've seen her already ! No , really ? exclaimed Miss Morris . 
And how did she look ? Is she as beautiful as you expected ? Well , I can't tell yet , Carlton answered . 
There were three of them , and they were all muffled up , and which one of the three she was I don't know . 
She wasn't labelled , as in the picture , but she was there , and I saw her . 
The woman I love was one of that three , and I have engaged rooms at the hotel , and this very night the same roof shelters us both . 
II The course of true love certainly runs smoothly with you , said Miss Morris , as they seated themselves at the table . 
What is your next move ? What do you mean to do now ? The rest is very simple , said Carlton . 
Then it will only be a matter of looking up some friend in the Household or in one of the embassies who can present me . 
Oh , said Miss Morris , in the tone of keenest disappointment , but that is such a commonplace ending ! You started out so romantically . 
Couldn't you manage to meet her in a less conventional way ? I am afraid not , said Carlton . 
There will be romance enough after I am presented , if I have my way . 
To Paris ! cried Carlton , in consternation . 
What ! all of them ? Yes , all of them , of course . 
Why ? asked the young German . 
But Carlton was already dodging across the tan bark to Piccadilly and waving his stick at a hansom . 
Nolan met him at the door of Brown's Hotel with an anxious countenance . 
Their Royal Highnesses have gone , sir , he said . 
But I've packed your trunks and sent them to the station . 
Shall I follow them sir ? Yes , said Carlton . 
Follow the trunks and follow the Hohenwalds . 
I will come over on the Club train at four . 
Meet me at the station , and tell me to what hotel they have gone . 
Telegraph at every station , so I can keep track of you . 
Have you enough money ? I have , sir enough for a long trip , sir . 
Well , you'll need it , said Carlton , grimly . 
This is going to be a long trip . 
It is twenty minutes to eleven now you will have to hurry . 
Have you paid my bill here ? I have , sir , said Nolan . 
Then get off , and don't lose sight of those people again . 
Carlton attended to several matters of business , and then lunched with Mrs. Downs and her niece . 
All women are not princesses , he argued , but all princesses are women . 
We will be in Paris on Wednesday , Mrs. Downs told him . 
The Orient Express leaves there twice a week , on Mondays and Thursdays , and we have taken an apartment for next Thursday , and will go right on to Constantinople . 
But I thought you said you had to buy a lot of clothes there ? Carlton expostulated . 
Mrs. Downs said that they would do that on their way home . 
Nolan met Carlton at the station , and told him that he had followed the Hohenwalds to the Hotel Meurice . 
They travel very simple , sir , and their people are in undress livery . 
Brown and red , sir . 
Carlton pretended not to listen to this . 
He had begun to doubt but that Nolan's zeal would lead him into some indiscretion , and would end disastrously to himself . 
He spent the evening alone in front of the Cafe de la Paix , pleasantly occupied in watching the life and movement of that great meeting of the highways . 
It did not seem possible that he had ever been away . 
It was as though he had picked up a book and opened it at the page and place at which he had left off reading it a moment before . 
There was the same type , the same plot , and the same characters , who were doing the same characteristic things . 
On the following morning Carlton took up his post in the open court of the Meurice , with his coffee and the Figaro to excuse his loitering there . 
Confound him ! he said I wish he would let me conduct my own affairs in my own way . 
If I don't stop him , he'll carry the Princess Aline off by force and send me word where he has hidden her . 
He had finished his dinner , and was leaning luxuriously forward , with his elbows on the table , and knocking the cigar ashes into his coffee cup . 
It was the voices of the people at the table behind him that brought him back to the present moment . 
A man was talking he spoke in English , with an accent . 
I should like to go again through the Luxembourg , he said but you need not be bound by what I do . 
I think it would be pleasanter if we all keep together , said a girl's voice , quietly . 
She also spoke in English , and with the same accent . 
Which is it to be , then ? said the gentleman , smiling . 
The pictures or the dressmakers ? The girl who had first spoken turned to the one next to her . 
Which would you rather do , Aline ? she asked . 
He was within two feet of the girl who had been called Aline . 
She raised her head to speak , and saw Carlton staring open eyed at her . 
I am afraid I had rather go to the Bon March , she said . 
That night , as he turned into bed , he gave a comfortable sigh of content . 
I am glad she chose the dressmakers instead of the pictures , he said . 
On Wednesday evening Carlton took the ladies to the opera , where the Hohenwalds occupied a box immediately opposite them . 
Carlton pretended to be surprised at this fact , but Mrs. Downs doubted his sincerity . 
I saw Nolan talking to their courier to day , she said , and I fancy he asked a few leading questions . 
Well , he didn't learn much if he did , he said . 
The fellow only talks German . 
Ah , then he has been asking questions ! said Miss Morris . 
Well , he does it on his own responsibility , said Carlton , for I told him to have nothing to do with servants . 
He has too much zeal , has Nolan I'm afraid of him . 
If you were only half as interested as he is , said Miss Morris , you would have known her long ago . 
Long ago ? exclaimed Carlton . 
I only saw her four days since . 
She is certainly very beautiful , said Miss Morris , looking across the auditorium . 
But she isn't there , said Carlton . 
That's the eldest sister the two other sisters went out on the coach this morning to Versailles , and were too tired to come tonight . 
At least , so Nolan says . 
He seems to have established a friendship for their English maid , but whether it's on my account or his own I don't know . 
How disappointing of her ! said Miss Morris . 
And after you had selected a box just across the way , too . 
It is such a pity to waste it on us . 
Why didn't you say it ? asked Miss Morris , calmly , turning her glass to the stage . 
Wasn't it pretty ? No , said Carlton not pretty enough . 
The ladies left the hotel the next day to take the Orient Express , which left Paris at six o'clock . 
He came into their compartment after the train had started , and shook his head sadly at them from the door . 
Well , what do you think of this ? he said . 
You can't get rid of me , you see . 
Going with us ? asked Mrs. Downs . 
How far ? Carlton laughed , and , coming inside , dropped onto the cushions with a sigh . 
I don't know , he said , dejectedly . 
All the way , I'm afraid . 
That is , I mean , I'm very glad I am to have your society for a few days more but really I didn't bargain for this . 
You don't mean to tell me that THEY are on this train ? said Miss Morris . 
They are , said Carlton . 
They have a car to themselves at the rear . 
They are going direct to Constantinople , and then to Athens . 
They had meant to stay in Paris two weeks longer , it seems , but they changed their minds last night . 
It was a very close shave for me . 
I only got back to the hotel in time to hear from the concierge that Nolan had flown with all of my things , and left word for me to follow . 
I doubt if I could resist such impetuosity . 
There was one servant to the entire twenty two passengers . 
Carlton and Miss Morris went out upon one of the platforms and sat down upon a tool box . 
It's isn't as comfortable here as in an observation car at home , said Carlton , but it's just as noisy . 
He pointed out to her from time to time the peasants gathering twigs , and the blue bloused gendarmes guarding the woods and the fences skirting them . 
Nothing is allowed to go to waste in this country , he said . 
It looks as though they went over it once a month with a lawn mower and a pruning knife . 
I believe they number the trees as we number the houses . 
And did you notice the great fortifications covered with grass ? she said . 
We have passed such a lot of them . 
And did you notice that they all faced only one way ? Carlton laughed , and nodded again . 
Towards Germany , he said . 
By the next day they had left the tall poplars and white roads behind them , and were crossing the land of low shiny black helmets and brass spikes . 
They had come into a country of low mountains and black forests , with old fortified castles topping the hills , and with red roofed villages scattered around the base . 
How very military it all is ! Mrs. Downs said . 
In forty eight hours they had passed through republics , principalities , empires , and kingdoms , and from spring to winter . 
It was like walking rapidly over a painted panorama of Europe . 
On the second evening Carlton went off into the smoking car alone . 
The Duke of Hohenwald and two of his friends had finished a late supper , and were seated in the apartment adjoining it . 
The Duke was a young man with a heavy beard and eyeglasses . 
Carlton was looking out at the night , but he could follow what was going forward , as it was reflected in the glass of the car window . 
He saw the Duke hand the catalogue to one of the equerries , who raised his eyebrows and nodded his head in assent . 
He could think of nothing else which would explain the interest the two men showed in him . 
On the morning following he sent Nolan out to purchase a catalogue at the first station at which they stopped , and found that his guess was a correct one . 
A portrait of himself had been reproduced in black and white , with his name below it . 
Well , they know who I am now , he said to Miss Morris , even , if they don't know me . 
That honor is still in store for them . 
I wish they did not lock themselves up so tightly , said Miss Morris . 
I want to see her very much . 
Cannot we walk up and down the platform at the next station ? She may be at the window . 
Of course , said Carlton . 
You could have seen her at Buda Pesth if you had spoken of it . 
She was walking up and down then . 
The next time the train stops we will prowl up and down and feast our eyes upon her . 
But Miss Morris had her wish gratified without that exertion . 
The Hohenwalds were served in the dining car after the other passengers had finished , and were in consequence only to be seen when they passed by the doors of the other compartments . 
I was wondering how long they could stand three men smoking in one of the boxes they call cars , said Mrs. Downs . 
She was seated between Miss Morris and Carlton , directly opposite the Hohenwalds , and so near them that she had to speak in a whisper . 
To avoid doing this Miss Morris asked Carlton for a pencil , and scribbled with it in the novel she held on her lap . 
Then she passed them both back to him , and said , aloud Have you read this ? It has such a pretty dedication . 
It is very beautiful , she said , gravely , looking out at the passing landscape . 
Well , not beautiful exactly , answered Carlton , surveying the hills critically , but certainly very attractive . 
It is worth travelling a long way to see , and I should think one would grow very fond of it . 
Miss Morris tore the fly leaf out of the book , and slipped it between the pages . 
May I keep it ? she said . 
And will you sign it ? she asked , smiling . 
Carlton shrugged his shoulders , and laughed . 
If you wish it , he answered . 
The Princess wore a gray cheviot travelling dress , as did her sisters , and a gray Alpine hat . 
She was leaning back , talking to the English captain who accompanied them , and laughing . 
Carlton thought he had never seen a woman who appealed so strongly to every taste of which he was possessed . 
The English captain dropped his head , and with the pretence of pulling at his mustache , covered his mouth as he spoke to her . 
He was telling her who I am , he thought , and about the picture in the catalogue . 
Did you see those girls talking about you , Mr. Carlton ? Miss Morris asked , after they had left the car . 
Carlton said it looked as though they were . 
Of course they were , said Miss Morris . 
That Englishman told the Princess Aline something about you , and then she told her sister , and she told the eldest one . 
It would be nice if they inherit their father's interest in painting , wouldn't it ? I would rather have it degenerate into an interest in painters myself , said Carlton . 
Miss Morris discovered , after she had returned to her own car , that she had left the novel where she had been sitting , and Carlton sent Nolan back for it . 
It had slipped to the floor , and the fly leaf upon which Carlton had sketched the Princess Aline was lying face down beside it . 
Nolan picked up the leaf , and saw the picture , and read the inscription below This is she . 
Do you wonder I travelled four thousand miles to see her ? He handed the book to Miss Morris , and was backing out of the compartment , when she stopped him . 
There was a loose page in this , Nolan , she said . 
It's gone did you see it ? A loose page , miss ? said Nolan , with some concern . 
Oh , yes , miss I was going to tell you there was a scrap of paper blew away when I was passing between the carriages . 
Was it something you wanted , miss ? Something I wanted ! exclaimed Miss Morris , in dismay . 
It is just as well I didn't sign it , after all , he said . 
I don't want to proclaim my devotion to any Hungarian gypsy who happens to read English . 
You must draw me another , as a souvenir , Miss Morris said . 
What hotel are your people going to stop at in Constantinople ? Nolan asked . 
The Grande Bretagne , I think , she answered . 
That's right , said Nolan , approvingly . 
That's the one we are going to . 
I thought I would come and tell you about it . 
And , by the way , he said , here's a picture somebody's made of your Princess Aline . 
She dropped it , and I picked it up . 
You had better give it back to her . 
Well , he added , politely , I'm glad you are coming to our hotel in Constantinople it's pleasant having some one to talk to who can speak your own tongue . 
The girl returned to the car , and left Nolan alone upon the platform . 
He exhaled a long breath of suppressed excitement , and then gazed around nervously upon the empty landscape . 
I fancy that's going to hurry things up a bit , he murmured , with an anxious smile he'd never get along at all if it wasn't for me . 
For reasons possibly best understood by the German ambassador , the state of the Hohenwalds at Constantinople differed greatly from that which had obtained at the French capital . 
They no longer came and went as they wished , or wandered through the show places of the city like ordinary tourists . 
This showed itself in the reserving of the half of the hotel for their use , and in the haughty bearing of the equerries , who appeared unexpectedly in magnificent uniforms . 
And in following out the programme which had been laid down for her , the Princess Aline became even less accessible to Carlton than before , and he grew desperate and despondent . 
Or he might frighten the horses some day , and give me a chance to stop them . 
We might even wait until we reach Greece , and have her carried off by brigands , who would only give her up to me . 
Oh , you plan very well , scoffed Miss Morris , but you don't DO anything . 
Carlton was saved the necessity of doing anything that same morning , when the English captain in attendance on the Duke sent his card to Carlton's room . 
He then took the English captain down stairs to the smoking room , and rewarded him for his agreeable message . 
He expressed his pleasure in knowing an artist with whose work he was so familiar , and congratulated himself on the happy accident which had brought them both to the same hotel . 
I have more than a natural interest in meeting you , said the Prince , and for a reason which you may or may not know . 
I thought possibly you could help me somewhat . 
Carlton could not withhold a certain start of surprise . 
He had not expected that his gift would so soon have arrived , but his face showed only polite attention . 
The studies were delivered to us in London , continued the Duke . 
They are of Ludwig the tragedian , and of the German Prime Minister , two most valuable works , and especially interesting to us . 
He had been ordered to forward them to Grasse , but , on learning of our presence in London , sent them direct to our hotel there . 
It sounds very mysterious , said Carlton smiling and I am afraid I cannot help you . 
What work I did in Germany was sold in Berlin before I left , and in a year may have changed hands several times . 
Yes , said the Duke . 
Well , then , I shall keep them until I can learn more and if we can learn nothing , I shall return them to the dealer . 
Carlton met Miss Morris that afternoon in a state of great excitement . 
It's come ! he cried it's come ! I am to meet her this week . 
Your friends the Hohenwalds don't seem to know you this morning , she said . 
Oh yes he spoke to me as we left the hotel , Carlton answered . 
But they are on parade at present . 
There are a lot of their countrymen among the tourists . 
I feel rather sorry for them , Miss Morris said , looking at the group with an amused smile . 
Etiquette cuts them off from so much innocent amusement . 
It wouldn't hurt her , and it would do you a lot of good . 
The simplest way is always the best way , it seems to me . 
Oh yes , of course , said Carlton . 
Suppose he came over here and said Carlton , I wish you would present me to your young American friend . 
I admire her very much , I would probably say Do you ? Well , you will have to wait until she expresses some desire to meet you . 
No etiquette is all right in itself , only some people don't know its laws , and that is the one instance to my mind where ignorance of the law is no excuse . 
Carlton left Miss Morris talking with the Secretary of the American Legation , and went to look for Mrs. Downs . 
Carlton was somewhat disturbed at the sight , and reproached himself with not having presented any one to her before . 
That little white light house is called Leander in honor of him . 
Then it is the men who have deteriorated , said one of the equerries , bowing to Miss Morris it is certainly not the women . 
The two Americans looked at Miss Morris to see how she received this , but she smiled good naturedly . 
I know a man who did more than that for a woman , said Carlton , innocently . 
He crossed an ocean and several countries to meet her , and he hasn't met her yet . 
Miss Morris looked at him and laughed , in the safety that no one understood him but herself . 
But he ran no danger , she answered . 
He didn't , didn't he ? said Carlton , looking at her closely and laughing . 
I think he was in very great danger all the time . 
Shocking ! said Miss Morris , reprovingly and in her very presence , too . 
She knitted her brows and frowned at him . 
I really believe if you were in prison you would make pretty speeches to the jailer's daughter . 
Yes , said Carlton , boldly , or even to a woman who was a prisoner herself . 
I don't know what you mean , she said , turning away from him to the others . 
How far was it that Leander swam ? she asked . 
The English captain pointed out two spots on either bank , and said that the shores of Abydos were a little over that distance apart . 
As far as that ? said Miss Morris . 
How much he must have cared for her ! She turned to Carlton for an answer . 
I beg your pardon , he said . 
He was measuring the distance between the two points with his eyes . 
I said how much he must have cared for her ! You wouldn't swim that far for a girl . 
For a girl ! laughed Carlton , quickly . 
I was just thinking I would do it for fifty dollars . 
The English captain gave a hasty glance at the distance he had pointed out , and then turned to Carlton . 
I'll take you , he said , seriously . 
I'll bet you twenty pounds you can't do it . 
There was an easy laugh at Carlton's expense , but he only shook his head and smiled . 
Leave him alone , captain , said the American Secretary . 
It seems to me I remember a story of Mr. Carlton's swimming out from Navesink to meet an ocean liner . 
It was about three miles , and the ocean was rather rough , and when they slowed up he asked them if it was raining in London when they left . 
They thought he was mad . 
Is that true , Carlton ? asked the Englishman . 
Something like it , said the American , except that I didn't ask them if it was raining in London . 
I asked them for a drink , and it was they who were mad . 
They thought I was drowning , and slowed up to lower a boat , and when they found out I was just swimming around they were naturally angry . 
Well , I'm glad you didn't bet with me , said the captain , with a relieved laugh . 
They nearly broke my shoulder . 
She looked at him critically , and smiled with evident amusement . 
To day , she quoted , solemnly , the birthday of my life has come . 
Carlton poured out his coffee , with a shake of his head , and frowned . 
Oh , you can laugh , he said , but I didn't sleep at all last night . 
I lay awake making speeches to her . 
I know they are going to put me between the wrong sisters , he complained , or next to one of those old ladies in waiting , or whatever they are . 
How are you going to begin ? said Miss Morris . 
I don't see how she can help but be impressed a little bit . 
It isn't every day a man hurries around the globe on account of a girl's photograph and she IS beautiful , isn't she ? Miss Morris nodded her head encouragingly . 
Do you know , sometimes , said Carlton , glancing over his shoulders to see if the waiters were out of hearing , I fancy she has noticed me . 
Once or twice I have turned my head in her direction without meaning to , and found her looking well , looking my way , at least . 
Don't you think that is a good sign ? he asked , eagerly . 
It depends on what you call a good sign , said Miss Morris , judicially . 
It is a sign you're good to look at , if that's what you want . 
But you probably know that already , and it's nothing to your credit . 
It certainly isn't a sign that a person cares for you because she prefers to look at your profile rather than at what the dragomans are trying to show her . 
Carlton drew himself up stiffly . 
If you knew your ALICE better , he said , with severity , you would understand that it is not polite to make personal remarks . 
I ask you , as my confidante , if you think she has noticed me , and you make fun of my looks ! That's not the part of a confidante . 
Noticed you ! laughed Miss Morris , scornfully . 
How could she help it ? You are always in the way . 
The first time you did it , after you had turned away I saw her feel to see if her hair was all right You quite embarrassed her . 
I didn't I don't ! stammered Carlton , indignantly ! I wouldn't be so rude . 
Oh , I see I'll have to get another confidante you are most unsympathetic and unkind . 
He is a selfish young egoist , said Carlton to Mrs. Downs . 
I'll never meet her now . 
I know it I feel it . 
Now I will have to follow them on to Athens , and something will turn up there to keep me away from her . 
He was very gloomy over his disappointment , and Miss Morris did her best to amuse him . 
She and her aunt were never idle now , and spent the last few days of their stay in Constantinople in the bazars or in excursions up and down the river . 
These are my last days of freedom , Miss Morris said to him once , and I mean to make the most of them . 
After this there will be no more travelling for me . 
And I love it so ! she added , wistfully . 
Carlton made no comment , but he felt a certain contemptuous pity for the young man in America who had required such a sacrifice . 
She is too nice a girl to let him know she is making a sacrifice , he thought , or giving up anything for him , but SHE won't forget it . 
And Carlton again commended himself for not having asked any woman to make any sacrifices for him . 
The low receding hills lay close on either hand , and ran back so sharply from the narrow waterway that they seemed to shut in the boat from the world beyond . 
There was a great lantern hanging midway from the mast , and shining down upon the lower deck . 
The music of the tizanes rose in notes of passionate ecstasy and sharp , unexpected bursts of melody . 
It ceased and be an again , as though the musicians were feeling their way , and then burst out once more into shrill defiance . 
It stirred Carlton with a strange turbulent unrest . 
From the banks the night wind brought soft odors of fresh earth and of heavy foliage . 
The music of different countries , Carlton said at last , means many different things . 
But it seems to me that the music of Hungary is the music of love . 
Miss Morris crossed her arms comfortably on the rail , and he heard her laugh softly . 
Oh no , it is not , she said , undisturbed . 
It's not the real thing at all . 
I beg your pardon , said Carlton , meekly . 
Of course I don't know anything about it . 
He had been waked out of the spell which the night and the tizanes had placed upon him as completely as though some one had shaken him sharply by the shoulder . 
I bow , he said , to your superior knowledge . 
I know nothing about it . 
No you are quite right . 
I don't believe you do know anything about it , said the girl , or you wouldn't have made such a comparison . 
It's like an ear for music if you haven't got it , if it isn't born in you , you'll never have it . 
It's not a thing you can cultivate , and I feel that it's not only a misfortune , but a fault . 
I don't doubt it while it exists , but it never does exist long , and so I am afraid it is going to be with me to the end of the chapter . 
He paused for a moment , but the girl did not answer . 
I am speaking in earnest now , he added , with a rueful laugh . 
I see you are , she replied , briefly . 
She seemed to be considering his condition as he had described it to her , and he did not interrupt her . 
From below them came the notes of the waltz the gypsies played . 
It is strange , said Miss Morris . 
I should have thought you were a man who would care very much and in just the right way . 
But I don't believe really I'm sorry , but I don't believe you do know what love means at all . 
Oh , it isn't as bad as that , said Carlton . 
I think I know what it is , and what it means to other people , but I can't feel it myself . 
The best idea I ever got of it the thing that made it clear to me was a line in a play . 
It seemed to express it better than any of the love poems I ever read . 
I beg your pardon , said Carlton . 
I beg yours , she said . 
It was only the incongruity that struck me . 
It seemed so odd to be quoting Shenandoah here in the Dardanelles , with these queer people below us and ancient Troy on one hand it took me by surprise , that's all . 
The girl he loves lives in this house , and is nursing him but she doesn't love him , because she sympathizes with the South . 
At least she says she doesn't love him . 
And he says again , What is that to you ? And she says It is everything to me . 
Miss Morris looked steadfastly over the side of the boat at the waters rushing by beneath , smiling to herself . 
Then she turned her face towards Carlton , and nodded her head at him . 
I think , she said , dryly , that you have a fair idea of what it means a rough working plan at least enough to begin on . 
I said that I knew what it meant to others . 
I am complaining that I cannot feel it myself . 
You think so ? said Carlton , eagerly . 
She had taken off her Eton jacket and pulled on a heavy blue football sweater , and over this a reefer . 
The jersey clung to her and showed the lines of her figure , and emphasized the freedom and grace with which she made every movement . 
I turn in now , he said , after Miss Morris had left them . 
A most charming young lady . 
Is it not so ? he added , waving his cigarette in a gesture which expressed the ineffectiveness of the adjective . 
Yes , very , said Carlton . 
He turned , and leaned with both elbows on the rail , and looked out at the misty banks , puffing at his cigar . 
Then he dropped it hissing into the water , and , stifling a yawn , looked up and down the length of the deserted deck . 
It seemed particularly bare and empty . 
What a pity she's engaged ! Carlton said . 
She loses so much by it . 
They steamed slowly into the harbor of the Piraeus at an early hour the next morning , with a flotilla of small boats filled with shrieking porters and hotel runners at the sides . 
As she stood there one of the hotel runners , a burly , greasy Levantine in pursuit of a possible victim , shouldered her intentionally and roughly out of the way . 
He shoved her so sharply that she lost her balance and fell back against the rail . 
He jerked him back off his feet . 
How dare you he began . 
But he did not finish . 
He felt the tips of Miss Morris's fingers laid upon his shoulder , and her voice saying , in an annoyed tone Don't please don't . 
Carlton was aware that he had a very quick temper . 
But this girl had merely touched him gently , and he had been made helpless . 
He did not comment on the incident , although he smiled at the recollection of his prompt obedience several times during the day . 
But as he was stepping into the cab to drive to Athens , he saw the offending ruffian pass , dripping with water , and muttering bitter curses . 
When he saw Carlton he disappeared instantly in the crowd . 
Carlton stepped over to where Nolan sat beside the driver on the box . 
Nolan , he said , in a low voice , isn't that the fellow who Yes , sir , said Nolan , touching his hat gravely . 
Carlton smiled grimly with secret satisfaction . 
Nolan , he said , you're not telling the truth . 
Nolan touched his cap and coughed consciously . 
There had been no detaining fingers on Nolan's arm . 
You have only to drink in the atmosphere and you are cured . 
I know no better antidote than Athens for a siege of cable cars and muddy asphalt pavements and a course of Robert Elsmeres and the Heavenly Twins . 
That's what a respect for his own body did for him . 
It was a bright sunny day , and the city was clean and cool and pretty . 
Breakfast ? exclaimed Miss Morris , in answer to Carlton's inquiry yes , I suppose so , but I won't feel safe until I have my feet on that rock . 
She was standing on the steps of the hotel , looking up with expectant , eager eyes at the great Acropolis above the city . 
It has been there for a long time now , suggested Carlton , and I think you can risk its being there for a half hour longer . 
Well , she said , reluctantly , but I don't wish to lose this chance . 
There might be an earthquake , for instance . 
We are likely to see THEM this morning , said Carlton , as he left the hotel with the ladies and drove towards the Acropolis . 
Nolan has been interviewing the English maid , and she tells him they spend the greater part of their time up there on the rock . 
They are living very simply here , as they did in Paris that is , for the present . 
On Wednesday the King gives a dinner and a reception in their honor . 
When does your dinner come off asked Miss Morris . 
Never , said Carlton , grimly . 
They don't label every fallen column , and place fences around the temples . 
They seem to put you on your good behavior . 
Then I always like to go to a place where you are as much of a curiosity to the people as they are to you . 
It seems to excuse your staring about you . 
THEY had no right to throw the first stone . 
The rock upon which the temples of the Acropolis are built is more of a hill than a rock . 
The top is so closely built over that the few tourists who visit it can imagine themselves its sole occupants for a half hour at a time . 
When Carlton and his friends arrived , the place appeared quite deserted . 
They left the carriage at the base of the rock , and climbed up to the entrance on foot . 
Now , before I go on to the Parthenon , said Miss Morris , I want to walk around the sides , and see what is there . 
I shall begin with that theatre to the left , and I warn you that I mean to take my time about it . 
So you people who have been here before can run along by yourselves , but I mean to enjoy it leisurely . 
I am safe by myself here , am I not ? she asked . 
What can we imagine is going on here ? said Miss Morris , pointing with her parasol to the theatre below . 
Oh , this is much later , said Carlton . 
This was built by the Romans . 
They used to act and to hold their public meetings here . 
I wonder how much they could hear from this height ? said Mrs. Downs . 
If you like , I will run down there and call up to you , and you can hear how it sounded . 
I will speak in my natural voice first , and if that doesn't reach you , wave your parasol , and I will try it a little louder . 
Oh , do ! said Miss Morris . 
It will be very good of you . 
I should like to hear a real speech in the theatre of Herodes , she said , as she seated herself on the edge of the marble crater . 
I'll have to speak in English , said Carlton , as he disappeared my Greek isn't good enough to carry that far . 
Mrs. Downs seated herself beside her niece , and Carlton began scrambling down the side of the amphitheatre . 
When he did look up he saw a tableau that made his heart , which was beating quickly from the exertion of the descent , stand still with consternation . 
At the moment Carlton looked up the Duke was standing in front of Mrs. Downs and Miss Morris , and all of the men had their hats off . 
The meaning of the tableau was only too plain . 
Good heavens ! gasped Carlton . 
Speech ! cried the young English Captain , applauding loudly , as though welcoming an actor on his first entrance . 
Hats off ! he cried . 
I must look like a bear in the bear pit at the Zoo , he growled . 
They'll be throwing buns to me next . 
The captain made a trumpet of his hands , and asked why be didn't begin . 
Hello ! how are you ? Carlton called back , waving his hat at him in some embarrassment . 
I wonder if I look as much like a fool as I feel ? he muttered . 
What did you say ? We can't hear you , answered the captain . 
Louder ! louder ! called the equerries . 
Carlton turned at once and dropped into one of the marble chairs and bowed his head . 
Oh , it's all very funny for you , he said , refusing her hand . 
I don't believe you are in love with anybody . 
You don't know what it means . 
They revisited the rock on the next day and on the day after , and then left Athens for an inland excursion to stay overnight . 
Miss Morris returned from it with the sense of having done her duty once , and by so doing having earned the right to act as she pleased in the future . 
She liked to stand on the edge of the low wall along its top and look out over the picture of sea and plain and mountains that lay below her . 
Carlton was sitting at her feet , shielded from the wind by a fallen column , and gazing up at her with critical approval . 
You look like a sort of a Winged Victory' up there , he said , with the wind blowing your skirts about and your hair coming down . 
I don't remember that the Winged Victory' has any hair to blow about , suggested Miss Morris . 
I would paint you with your head up and one hand shielding your eyes , and the other pressed against your breast . 
He spoke enthusiastically , but in quite an impersonal tone , as though he were discussing the posing of a model . 
Miss Morris jumped down from the low wall on which she had been standing , and said , simply , Of course I should like to have you paint me very much . 
Mrs. Downs looked up with interest to see if Mr. Carlton was serious . 
When ? said Carlton , vaguely . 
Oh , I don't know . 
Yes , repeated Miss Morris , I shall have something else to do besides gazing out at the AEgean Sea . 
She raised her head and looked across the rock for a moment with some interest . 
Her eyes , which had grown wistful , lighted again with amusement . 
Here are your friends , she said , smiling . 
No ! exclaimed Carlton , scrambling to his feet . 
Yes , said Miss Morris . 
The Duke has seen us , and is coming over here . 
But the Duke came directly towards them , and seated himself on a low block of marble in front of the two ladies . 
After a word or two about the beauties of the place , he asked if they would go to the reception which the King gave to him on the day following . 
They answered that they should like to come very much , and the Prince expressed his satisfaction , and said that he would see that the chamberlain sent them invitations . 
And you , Mr. Carlton , you will come also , I hope . 
I wish you to be presented to my sisters . 
They are only amateurs in art , but they are great admirers of your work , and they have rebuked me for not having already presented you . 
You must tell us what we are to admire . 
That is very easy , said Carlton . 
You are quite right , said the Prince , bowing to the ladies as he moved away . 
It is all very beautiful . 
Well , now you certainly will meet her , said Miss Morris . 
Oh no , I won't , said Carlton , with resignation . 
I have had two chances and lost them , and I'll miss this one too . 
Well , there is a chance you shouldn't miss , said Miss Morris , pointing and nodding her head . 
There she is now , and all alone . 
She glanced up from this now and again to look at something ahead of her , and was apparently deeply absorbed in her occupation . 
There is your opportunity , said Mrs. Downs and we are going back to the hotel . 
Shall we see you at luncheon ? Yes , said Carlton , unless I get a position as drawing master in that case I shall be here teaching the three amateurs in art . 
Do you think I can do it ? he asked Miss Morris . 
I have found you a most educational young person . 
They went away together , and Carlton moved cautiously towards the spot where the Princess was sitting . 
He made a long and roundabout detour as he did so , in order to keep himself behind her . 
There she seated herself with her face towards the city , and with her back firmly set against her pursuer . 
He is annoying her ! exclaimed Carlton , delightedly , as he hurried forward . 
It looks as though my chance had come at last . 
A helpless statue and an equally helpless young girl were both good subjects and at his mercy . 
He was bending over , with an anxious expression of countenance , and focussing his camera on the back of the Princess Aline , when Carlton approached from the rear . 
As the young man put his finger on the button of the camera , Carlton jogged his arm with his elbow , and pushed the enthusiastic tourist to one side . 
Say , exclaimed that individual , look where you're going , will you ? You spoiled that plate . 
I'll spoil your camera if you annoy that young lady any longer , said Carlton , in a low voice . 
The photographer was rapidly rewinding his roll , and the fire of pursuit was still in his eye . 
She's a Princess , he explained , in an excited whisper . 
Well , said Carlton , even a Princess is entitled to some consideration . 
Besides , he said , in a more amicable tone , you haven't a permit to photograph on the Acropolis . 
Carlton was quite sure of this , because there were no such permits . 
The amateur looked up in some dismay . 
I didn't know you had to have them , he said . 
Where can I get one ? The King may give you one , said Carlton . 
He lives at the palace . 
If they catch you up here without a license , they will confiscate your camera and lock you up . 
You had better vanish before they see you . 
I will , said the tourist , anxiously . 
Carlton stood for some short time looking after her , with his hat still at his side . 
She seemed farther from him at that moment than she had ever been before , although she had for the first time recognized him . 
But he knew that it was only as a human being that she had recognized him . 
He put on his hat , and sat down on a rock with his elbows on his knees , and filled his pipe . 
But because she is a Princess she cannot be approached in that way . 
At least she does not think so , and I have to act as she has been told I should act , and not as I think I should . 
After all , she is only a very beautiful girl , and she must be very tired of her cousins and grandmothers , and of not being allowed to see any one else . 
These royalties make a very picturesque show for the rest of us , but indeed it seems rather hard on them . 
They both looked at him with expressions of such genuine commiseration that he stopped just as he was going to seat himself and eyed them defiantly . 
Don't tell me , he exclaimed , that this has fallen through too ! Miss Morris nodded her head silently . 
Carlton dropped into the chair beside them , and folded his arms with a frown of grim resignation . 
What is it ? he asked . 
Have they postponed the reception ? No , Miss Morris said but the Princess Aline will not be there . 
Of course not , said Carlton , calmly , of course not . 
May I ask why ? I knew that she wouldn't be there , but I may possibly be allowed to express some curiosity . 
Of course , of course ! cried Carlton . 
That's the way it always will be . 
I was there the whole afternoon , and I didn't see her . 
I wasn't there to help her . 
It's Fate , that's what it is Fate ! There's no use in my trying to fight against Fate . 
Still , he added , anxiously , with a sudden access of hope , she may be well by this evening . 
s I hardly think she will , said Miss Morris , but we will trust so . 
The King's palace and gardens stretch along one end of the public park , and are but just across the street from the hotel where the Hohenwalds and the Americans were staying . 
Carlton pulled a light coat over his evening dress , and , with an agitation he could hardly explain , walked across the street and entered the palace . 
No , said the officer she's able to walk about , but not to stand , and sit out a dinner , and dance , and all this sort of thing . 
Too bad , wasn't it ? Yes , said Carlton , very bad . 
He released his hand from the other's arm , and dropped back among the men grouped about the doorway . 
His disappointment was very keen . 
But when he finally did discover her he stood quite still , and for an instant doubted if it were she . 
Carlton approached her with a certain feeling of diffidence , which was most unusual to him , and asked if she were dancing . 
Mr. Carlton shall decide for me , Miss Morris said , dropping the equerry's arm and standing beside the American . 
I have promised all of these gentlemen , she explained , to dance with them , and now they won't agree as to which is to dance first . 
Most unpleasant for the gentleman you choose , too , suggested Carlton . 
So , continued Miss Morris , I have decided to leave it to you . 
That's a very good idea , said Miss Morris and taking Carlton's arm , she bowed to the three men and drew away . 
Mr. Carlton , said the equerry , with a bow , has added another argument in favor of maintaining standing armies , and of not submitting questions to arbitration . 
Let's get out of this , said Carlton . 
You don't want to dance , do you ? Let us go where it's cool . 
He led her down the stairs , and out on to the terrace . 
They did not speak again until they had left it , and were walking under the trees in the Queen's garden . 
He stopped before a low stone bench that stood on the edge of the path , surrounded by a screen of tropical trees , and guarded by a marble statue . 
You are so very resplendent and queenly and altogether different , he added . 
The girl moved her bare shoulders slightly and leaned back against the bench . 
The Princess did not come , she said . 
No , Carlton answered , with a sudden twinge of conscience at having forgotten that fact . 
That's one of the reasons I took you away from those men , he explained . 
I wanted you to sympathize with me . 
Miss Morris did not answer him at once . 
She did not seem to be in a sympathetic mood . 
Her manner suggested rather that she was tired and troubled . 
I need sympathy myself to night , she said . 
We received a letter after dinner that brought bad news for us . 
We must go home at once . 
Bad news ! exclaimed Carlton , with much concern . 
From home ? Yes , from home , she replied but there is nothing wrong there it is only bad news for us . 
My sister has decided to be married in June instead of July , and that cuts us out of a month on the Continent . 
We shall have to leave immediately tomorrow . 
It seems that Mr. Abbey is able to go away sooner than he had hoped , and they are to be married on the first . 
Mr. Abbey ! exclaimed Carlton , catching at the name . 
But your sister isn't going to marry him , is she ? Miss Morris turned her head in some surprise . 
Yes why not ? she said . 
I marry him my aunt told you impossible ! said Miss Morris , smiling . 
She probably said that her niece' was going to marry him she meant my sister . 
They had been engaged some time . 
Then who are YOU going to marry ? stammered Carlton . 
I am not going to marry any one , said Miss Morris . 
Carlton stared at her blankly in amazement . 
Well , that's most absurd ! he exclaimed . 
A dozen questions were on his tongue . 
He remembered afterwards how he had noticed a servant trimming the candle in one of the orange colored lanterns , and that he had watched him as he disappeared among the palms . 
The silence lasted for so long a time that it had taken on a significance in itself which Carlton recognized . 
He pulled himself up with a short laugh . 
Well , he remonstrated , mirthlessly , I don't think you've treated ME very well . 
How , not treated you very well ? Miss Morris asked , settling herself more easily . 
She had been sitting during the pause which followed Carlton's discovery with a certain rigidity , as if she was on a strain of attention . 
But her tone was now as friendly as always , and held its customary suggestion of amusement . 
Carlton took his tone from it , although his mind was still busily occupied with incidents and words of hers that she had spoken in their past intercourse . 
Not fair in letting me think you were engaged , he said . 
I've wasted so much time I'm not half civil enough to engaged girls , he explained . 
You've been quite civil enough to us , said Miss Morris , as a courier , philosopher , and friend . 
I'm very sorry we have to part company . 
Part company ! exclaimed Carlton , in sudden alarm . 
But , I say , we mustn't do that . 
But we must , you see , said Miss Morris . 
We must go back for the wedding , and you will have to follow the Princess Aline . 
Yes , of course , Carlton heard his own voice say . 
I had forgotten the Princess Aline . 
But he was not thinking of what he was saying , nor of the Princess Aline . 
He recalled how impatient he had been when she was late at dinner , and how cross he was throughout one whole day when she had kept her room . 
Carlton turned and looked at her with strange wide open eyes , as though he saw her for the first time . 
He leaned forward with his arm along the back of the bench , and bent his face towards hers . 
Her hand lay at her side , and his own closed over it , but the shock that the touch of her fingers gave him stopped and confused the words upon his tongue . 
He looked strangely at her , and could not find the speech he needed . 
Miss Morris gave his hand a firm , friendly little pressure and drew her own away , as if he had taken hers only in an exuberance of good feeling . 
You have been very nice to us , she said , with an effort to make her tone sound kindly and approving . 
And we You mustn't go I can't let you go , said Carlton , hoarsely . 
There was no mistaking his tone or his earnestness now . 
IF you go , he went on , breathlessly , I must go with you . 
The girl moved restlessly she leaned forward , and drew in her breath with a slight , nervous tremor . 
Then she turned and faced him , almost as though she were afraid of him or of herself , and they sat so for an instant in silence . 
The air seemed to have grown close and heavy , and Carlton saw her dimly . 
In the silence he heard the splash of the fountain behind them , and the rustling of the leaves in the night wind , and the low , sighing murmur of a waltz . 
He raised his head to listen , and she saw in the moonlight that he was smiling . 
It was as though he wished to delay any answer she might make to his last words . 
It seemed to be an effort for her to even make that slight gesture . 
YOU don't remember it , said Carlton . 
It meant nothing to you . 
I mean that night on the steamer when I told you what love meant to other people . 
What a fool I was ! he said , with an uncertain laugh . 
Yes , I remember it , she said last Thursday night , on the steamer . 
Thursday night ! exclaimed Carlton , indignantly . 
Wednesday night , Tuesday night , how should I know what night of the week it was ? It was the night of my life to me . 
That night I knew that I loved you as I had never hoped to care for any one in this world . 
When I told you that I did not know what love meant I felt all the time that I was lying . 
All the rest of my life depends on you . 
The Hohenwalds occupied the suite of rooms on the first floor of the hotel , with the privilege of using the broad balcony that reached out from it over the front entrance . 
Her foot was still in bandages , and she was wrapped in a long cloak to keep her from the cold . 
Inside of the open windows that led out on to the balcony her sisters were taking off their ornaments , and discussing the incidents of the night just over . 
Then she saw Carlton shake hands with them , and stand for a moment after they had disappeared , gazing up at the moon and fumbling in the pockets of his coat . 
The Princess walked back to one of the open windows , and stood there leaning against the side . 
That young Mr. Carlton , the artist , she said to her sisters , is engaged to that beautiful American girl we met the other day . 
Really ! said the elder sister . 
I thought it was probable . 
Who told you ? I saw him kiss her good night , said the Princess , stepping into the window , as they got out of their carriage just now . 
The Princess Aline stood for a moment looking thoughtfully at the floor , and then walked across the room to a little writing desk . 
She unlocked a drawer in this and took from it two slips of paper , which she folded in her hand . 
Then she returned slowly across the room , and stepped out again on to the balcony . 
One of the pieces of paper held the picture Carlton had drawn of her , and under which he had written This is she . 
Do you wonder I travelled four thousand miles to see her ? And the other was the picture of Carlton himself , which she had cut out of the catalogue of the Salon . 
She folded the pieces of paper together and tore them slowly into tiny fragments , and let them fall through her fingers into the street below . 
Then she returned again to the room , and stood looking at her sisters . 
Do you know , she said , I think I am a little tired of travelling so much . 
I want to go back to Grasse . 
She put her hand to her , forehead and held it there for a moment . 
I think I am a little homesick , said the Princess Aline . 
