To restore the grey carcases of a mediaevalism whose spirit had fled , seemed a not less incongruous act than to set about renovating the adjoining crags themselves . 
The shore and country about 'Castle Boterel' is now getting well known , and will be readily recognized . 
This , however , is of little importance . 
the region of dream and mystery . 
One enormous sea bord cliff in particular figures in the narrative and for some forgotten reason or other this cliff was described in the story as being without a name . 
Accuracy would require the statement to be that a remarkable cliff which resembles in many points the cliff of the description bears a name that no event has made famous . 
THE SCENE Mostly on the outskirts of Lower Wessex . 
Chapter I 'A fair vestal , throned in the west' Elfride Swancourt was a girl whose emotions lay very near the surface . 
Their nature more precisely , and as modified by the creeping hours of time , was known only to those who watched the circumstances of her history . 
Personally , she was the combination of very interesting particulars , whose rarity , however , lay in the combination itself rather than in the individual elements combined . 
, but in the attractive crudeness of the remarks themselves . 
One point in her , however , you did notice that was her eyes . 
In them was seen a sublimation of all of her it was not necessary to look further there she lived . 
These eyes were blue blue as autumn distance blue as the blue we see between the retreating mouldings of hills and woody slopes on a sunny September morning . 
A misty and shady blue , that had no beginning or surface , and was looked INTO rather than AT . 
As to her presence , it was not powerful it was weak . 
Some women can make their personality pervade the atmosphere of a whole banqueting hall Elfride's was no more pervasive than that of a kitten . 
The characteristic expression of the female faces of Correggio that of the yearning human thoughts that lie too deep for tears was hers sometimes , but seldom under ordinary conditions . 
On this particular day her father , the vicar of a parish on the sea swept outskirts of Lower Wessex , and a widower , was suffering from an attack of gout . 
After finishing her household supervisions Elfride became restless , and several times left the room , ascended the staircase , and knocked at her father's chamber door . 
'Come in ! was always answered in a hearty out of door voice from the inside . 
'Afraid not eh hh ! very much afraid I shall not , Elfride . 
'Then I hope this London man won't come for I don't know what I should do , papa . 
'Well , it would be awkward , certainly . 
'I should hardly think he would come to day . 
'Why ? 'Because the wind blows so . 
If he should come , you must send him up to me , I suppose , and then give him some food and put him to bed in some way . 
Dear me , what a nuisance all this is ! 'Must he have dinner ? 'Too heavy for a tired man at the end of a tedious journey . 
'Tea , then ? 'Not substantial enough . 
'High tea , then ? There is cold fowl , rabbit pie , some pasties , and things of that kind . 
'Must I pour out his tea , papa ? 'Of course you are the mistress of the house . 
A practical professional man , tired and hungry , who has been travelling ever since daylight this morning , will hardly be inclined to talk and air courtesies to night . 
He wants food and shelter , and you must see that he has it , simply because I am suddenly laid up and cannot . 
There is nothing so dreadful in that , I hope ? You get all kinds of stuff into your head from reading so many of those novels . 
'Oh no there is nothing dreadful in it when it becomes plainly a case of necessity like this . 
'Is he Mr. Hewby's partner ? 'I should scarcely think so he may be . 
'How old is he , I wonder ? 'That I cannot tell . 
You will find the copy of my letter to Mr. Hewby , and his answer , upon the table in the study . 
You may read them , and then you'll know as much as I do about our visitor . 
'Well , what's the use of asking questions , then ? They contain all I know . 
Od plague you , you young scamp ! don't put anything there ! I can't bear the weight of a fly . 
'Oh , I am sorry , papa . 
Chapter II 'Twas on the evening of a winter's day . 
They circumscribed two men , having at present the aspect of silhouettes , sitting in a dog cart and pushing along in the teeth of the wind . 
The wind prevailed with but little abatement from its daytime boisterousness , three or four small clouds , delicate and pale , creeping along under the sky southward to the Channel . 
A little farther , and an opening in the elms stretching up from this fertile valley revealed a mansion . 
'That's Endelstow House , Lord Luxellian's , said the driver . 
'Endelstow House , Lord Luxellian's , repeated the other mechanically . 
He then turned himself sideways , and keenly scrutinized the almost invisible house with an interest which the indistinct picture itself seemed far from adequate to create . 
'Yes , that's Lord Luxellian's , he said yet again after a while , as he still looked in the same direction . 
'What , be we going there ? 'No Endelstow Vicarage , as I have told you . 
'I thought you m't have altered your mind , sir , as ye have stared that way at nothing so long . 
'Oh no I am interested in the house , that's all . 
'Most people be , as the saying is . 
'Not in the sense that I am . 
Well , his family is no better than my own , 'a b'lieve . 
'How is that ? 'Hedgers and ditchers by rights . 
But once in ancient times one of 'em , when he was at work , changed clothes with King Charles the Second , and saved the king's life . 
Will you lend me your clothes ? I don't mind if I do , said Hedger Luxellian and they changed there and then . 
Now , that was very nice of Master Charley ? 'Very nice indeed . 
No , he isn't , they said . 
Then , is Charles the Third ? said Hedger Luxellian . 
Yes , said a young feller standing by like a common man , only he had a crown on , my name is Charles the Third . 
And 'I really fancy that must be a mistake . 
I don't recollect anything in English history about Charles the Third , said the other in a tone of mild remonstrance . 
'Oh , that's right history enough , only 'twasn't prented he was rather a queer tempered man , if you remember . 
Upon my word , that's too much . 
'Why ? There was a George the Fourth , wasn't there ? 'Certainly . 
'Well , Charleses be as common as Georges . 
However I'll say no more about it . 
Ah , well ! 'tis the funniest world ever I lived in upon my life 'tis . 
Ah , that such should be ! The dusk had thickened into darkness while they thus conversed , and the outline and surface of the mansion gradually disappeared . 
Not another word was spoken for some time , and they climbed a hill , then another hill piled on the summit of the first . 
An additional mile of plateau followed , from which could be discerned two light houses on the coast they were nearing , reposing on the horizon with a calm lustre of benignity . 
They sank lower and lower . 
'Endelstow Vicarage is inside here , continued the man with the reins . 
'This part about here is West Endelstow Lord Luxellian's is East Endelstow , and has a church to itself . 
Pa'son Swancourt is the pa'son of both , and bobs backward and forward . 
Ah , well ! 'tis a funny world . 
'A b'lieve there was once a quarry where this house stands . 
But he's a very nice party . 
Ay , Pa'son Swancourt knows me pretty well from often driving over and I know Pa'son Swancourt . 
They emerged from the bower , swept round in a curve , and the chimneys and gables of the vicarage became darkly visible . 
Not a light showed anywhere . 
They alighted the man felt his way into the porch , and rang the bell . 
At the end of three or four minutes , spent in patient waiting without hearing any sounds of a response , the stranger advanced and repeated the call in a more decided manner . 
He then fancied he heard footsteps in the hall , and sundry movements of the door knob , but nobody appeared . 
'Perhaps they beant at home , sighed the driver . 
'And I promised myself a bit of supper in Pa'son Swancourt's kitchen . 
'Time o' night , 'a b'lieve ! and the clock only gone seven of 'em . 
Show a light , and let us in , William Worm . 
'Oh , that you , Robert Lickpan ? 'Nobody else , William Worm . 
'And is the visiting man a come ? 'Yes , said the stranger . 
'Is Mr. Swancourt at home ? 'That 'a is , sir . 
And would ye mind coming round by the back way ? The front door is got stuck wi' the wet , as he will do sometimes and the Turk can't open en . 
I know I am only a poor wambling man that 'ill never pay the Lord for my making , sir but I can show the way in , sir . 
She appeared in the prettiest of all feminine guises , that is to say , in demi toilette , with plenty of loose curly hair tumbling down about her shoulders . 
An expression of uneasiness pervaded her countenance and altogether she scarcely appeared woman enough for the situation . 
'I am Mr. Smith , said the stranger in a musical voice . 
'I am Miss Swancourt , said Elfride . 
Stephen Smith , who has hitherto been hidden from us by the darkness , was at this time of his life but a youth in appearance , and barely a man in years . 
His complexion was as fine as Elfride's own the pink of his cheeks as delicate . 
His mouth as perfect as Cupid's bow in form , and as cherry red in colour as hers . 
Elfride hastened to say she was sorry to tell him that Mr. Swancourt was not able to receive him that evening , and gave the reason why . 
Stephen was shown up to his room . 
In his absence Elfride stealthily glided into her father's . 
Such a young man for a business man ! 'Oh , indeed ! 'His face is well PRETTY just like mine . 
'H'm ! what next ? 'Nothing that's all I know of him yet . 
It is rather nice , is it not ? 'Well , we shall see that when we know him better . 
Go down and give the poor fellow something to eat and drink , for Heaven's sake . 
And when he has done eating , say I should like to have a few words with him , if he doesn't mind coming up here . 
The young lady glided downstairs again , and whilst she awaits young Smith's entry , the letters referring to his visit had better be given . 
'I am exceedingly ignorant of the necessary preliminary steps . 
yourself or some member of your staff come and see the building , and report thereupon for the satisfaction of parishioners and others . 
'Any day of the next week that you like to name for the visit will find us quite ready to receive you . 
Yours very truly , CHRISTOPHER SWANCOURT . 
PERCY PLACE , CHARING CROSS , Feb . 
'My assistant , Mr. Stephen Smith , will leave London by the early train to morrow morning for the purpose . 
Many thanks for your proposal to accommodate him . 
He will take advantage of your offer , and will probably reach your house at some hour of the evening . 
You may put every confidence in him , and may rely upon his discernment in the matter of church architecture . 
Chapter III 'Melodious birds sing madrigals' That first repast in Endelstow Vicarage was a very agreeable one to young Stephen Smith . 
The table was prettily decked with winter flowers and leaves , amid which the eye was greeted by chops , chicken , pie , c . 
, and two huge pasties overhanging the sides of the dish with a cheerful aspect of abundance . 
Having made her own meal before he arrived , she found to her embarrassment that there was nothing left for her to do but talk when not assisting him . 
In a few minutes ingenuousness and a common term of years obliterated all recollection that they were strangers just met . 
Upon the whole , a very interesting picture of Sweet and Twenty was on view that evening in Mr. Swancourt's house . 
Ultimately Stephen had to go upstairs and talk loud to the vicar , receiving from him between his puffs a great many apologies for calling him so unceremoniously to a stranger's bedroom . 
'But , continued Mr. Swancourt , 'I felt that I wanted to say a few words to you before the morning , on the business of your visit . 
However , he's gone to my other toe in a very mild manner , and I expect he'll slink off altogether by the morning . 
I hope you have been well attended to downstairs ? 'Perfectly . 
And though it is unfortunate , and I am sorry to see you laid up , I beg you will not take the slightest notice of my being in the house the while . 
But I shall be down to morrow . 
My daughter is an excellent doctor . 
A dose or two of her mild mixtures will fetch me round quicker than all the drug stuff in the world . 
Well , now about the church business . 
Take a seat , do . 
This tower of ours is , as you will notice , entirely gone beyond the possibility of restoration but the church itself is well enough . 
You should see some of the churches in this county . 
Floors rotten ivy lining the walls . 
'Dear me ! 'Oh , that's nothing . 
The congregation of a neighbour of mine , whenever a storm of rain comes on during service , open their umbrellas and hold them up till the dripping ceases from the roof . 
Now , if you will kindly bring me those papers and letters you see lying on the table , I will show you how far we have got . 
Stephen crossed the room to fetch them , and the vicar seemed to notice more particularly the slim figure of his visitor . 
'I suppose you are quite competent ? he said . 
'Quite , said the young man , colouring slightly . 
'You are very young , I fancy I should say you are not more than nineteen ? I am nearly twenty one . 
'Exactly half my age I am forty two . 
'By the way , said Mr. Swancourt , after some conversation , 'you said your whole name was Stephen Fitzmaurice , and that your grandfather came originally from Caxbury . 
Since I have been speaking , it has occurred to me that I know something of you . 
You belong to a well known ancient county family not ordinary Smiths in the least . 
'I don't think we have any of their blood in our veins . 
Hand me the Landed Gentry . 
Now , let me see . 
There , Stephen Fitzmaurice Smith he lies in St . 
'But there is no connection between his family and mine there cannot be . 
'There is none , possibly , to your knowledge . 
But look at this , my dear sir , said the vicar , striking his fist upon the bedpost for emphasis . 
'Here are you , Stephen Fitzmaurice Smith , living in London , but springing from Caxbury . 
Here in this book is a genealogical tree of the Stephen Fitzmaurice Smiths of Caxbury Manor . 
'I wish you could congratulate me upon some more tangible quality , said the younger man , sadly no less than modestly . 
'Nonsense ! that will come with time . 
You are young all your life is before you . 
Now look see how far back in the mists of antiquity my own family of Swancourt have a root . 
Here , you see , he continued , turning to the page , 'is Geoffrey , the one among my ancestors who lost a barony because he would cut his joke . 
Ah , it's the sort of us ! But the story is too long to tell now . 
Beyond dining with a neighbouring incumbent or two . 
and an occasional chat sometimes dinner with Lord Luxellian , a connection of mine , I am in absolute solitude absolute . 
'You have your studies , your books , and your daughter . 
'Oh yes , yes and I don't complain of poverty . 
Well , Mr. Smith , don't let me detain you any longer in a sick room . 
Ha ! that reminds me of a story I once heard in my younger days . 
Here the vicar began a series of small private laughs , and Stephen looked inquiry . 
'Oh , no , no ! it is too bad too bad to tell ! continued Mr. Swancourt in undertones of grim mirth . 
'Well , go downstairs my daughter must do the best she can with you this evening . 
Ask her to sing to you she plays and sings very nicely . 
Good night I feel as if I had known you for five or six years . 
I'll ring for somebody to show you down . 
'Never mind , said Stephen , 'I can find the way . 
And he went downstairs , thinking of the delightful freedom of manner in the remoter counties in comparison with the reserve of London . 
'I forgot to tell you that my father was rather deaf , said Elfride anxiously , when Stephen entered the little drawing room . 
'Never mind I know all about it , and we are great friends , the man of business replied enthusiastically . 
'Do you like that old thing , Mr. Smith ? she said at the end . 
'Yes , I do much , said Stephen words he would have uttered , and sincerely , to anything on earth , from glee to requiem , that she might have chosen . 
and then I shall want to give you my own favourite for the very last , Shelley's When the lamp is shattered , as set to music by my poor mother . 
I so much like singing to anybody who REALLY cares to hear me . 
Into this nook he squeezed himself , and gazed wistfully up into Elfride's face . 
So long and so earnestly gazed he , that her cheek deepened to a more and more crimson tint as each line was added to her song . 
Concluding , and pausing motionless after the last word for a minute or two , she ventured to look at him again . 
His features wore an expression of unutterable heaviness . 
'Now , Mr. Smith ! 'It is perfectly true I don't hear much singing . 
You mistake what I am , I fancy . 
Because I come as a stranger to a secluded spot , you think I must needs come from a life of bustle , and know the latest movements of the day . 
My life is as quiet as yours , and more solitary solitary as death . 
'The death which comes from a plethora of life ? But seriously , I can quite see that you are not the least what I thought you would be before I saw you . 
You are not critical , or experienced , or much to mind . 
That's why I don't mind singing airs to you that I only half know . 
You don't think my life here so very tame and dull , I know . 
'I do not , indeed , he said with fervour . 
She said quickly 'But you can't live here always . 
And he drew himself in with the sensitiveness of a snail . 
Chapter IV 'Where heaves the turf in many a mould'ring heap . 
For reasons of his own , Stephen Smith was stirring a short time after dawn the next morning . 
On the brow of one hill , of rather greater altitude than its neighbour , stood the church which was to be the scene of his operations . 
The lonely edifice was black and bare , cutting up into the sky from the very tip of the hill . 
It had a square mouldering tower , owning neither battlement nor pinnacle , and seemed a monolithic termination , of one substance with the ridge , rather than a structure raised thereon . 
Not a tree could exist up there nothing but the monotonous gray green grass . 
Five minutes after this casual survey was made his bedroom was empty , and its occupant had vanished quietly from the house . 
At the end of two hours he was again in the room , looking warm and glowing . 
He now pursued the artistic details of dressing , which on his first rising had been entirely omitted . 
And a very blooming boy he looked , after that mysterious morning scamper . 
His mouth was a triumph of its class . 
Once he murmured the name of Elfride . 
The scene down there was altogether different from that of the hills . 
A thicket of shrubs and trees enclosed the favoured spot from the wilderness without even at this time of the year the grass was luxuriant there . 
No wind blew inside the protecting belt of evergreens , wasting its force upon the higher and stronger trees forming the outer margin of the grove . 
Then he heard a heavy person shuffling about in slippers , and calling 'Mr . 
Smith ! Smith proceeded to the study , and found Mr. Swancourt . 
The young man expressed his gladness to see his host downstairs . 
'Oh yes I knew I should soon be right again . 
I have not made the acquaintance of gout for more than two years , and it generally goes off the second night . 
Well , where have you been this morning ? I saw you come in just now , I think ! 'Yes I have been for a walk . 
'Very early , I think ? 'Yes , it was rather early . 
'Which way did you go ? To the sea , I suppose . 
'No I followed up the river as far as the park wall . 
'You are different from your kind . 
Well , I suppose such a wild place is a novelty , and so tempted you out of bed ? 'Not altogether a novelty . 
The youth seemed averse to explanation . 
'You must , you must to go cock watching the morning after a journey of fourteen or sixteen hours . 
But there's no accounting for tastes , and I am glad to see that yours are no meaner . 
After breakfast , but not before , I shall be good for a ten miles' walk , Master Smith . 
Certainly there seemed nothing exaggerated in that assertion . 
The vicar's background was at present what a vicar's background should be , his study . 
Upon this stood stuffed specimens of owls , divers , and gulls , and over them bunches of wheat and barley ears , labelled with the date of the year that produced them . 
Some cases and shelves , more or less laden with books , the prominent titles of which were Dr . 
Brown's 'Notes on the Romans , Dr . 
Smith's 'Notes on the Corinthians , and Dr . 
'Business , business ! said Mr. Swancourt after breakfast . 
He began to find it necessary to act the part of a fly wheel towards the somewhat irregular forces of his visitor . 
They prepared to go to the church the vicar , on second thoughts , mounting his coal black mare to avoid exerting his foot too much at starting . 
Stephen said he should want a man to assist him . 
'Worm ! the vicar shouted . 
'What's the matter ? said the vicar , as William Worm appeared when the remarks were repeated to him . 
'Worm says some very true things sometimes , Mr. Swancourt said , turning to Stephen . 
'Now , as regards that word esquire . 
Why , Mr. Smith , that word esquire is gone to the dogs , used on the letters of every jackanapes who has a black coat . 
Anything else , Worm ? 'Ay , the folk have begun frying again ! 'Dear me ! I'm sorry to hear that . 
'Yes , Worm said groaningly to Stephen , 'I've got such a noise in my head that there's no living night nor day . 
'Tis just for all the world like people frying fish fry , fry , fry , all day long in my poor head , till I don't know whe'r I'm here or yonder . 
There , God A'mighty will find it out sooner or later , I hope , and relieve me . 
'Now , my deafness , said Mr. Swancourt impressively , 'is a dead silence but William Worm's is that of people frying fish in his head . 
Very remarkable , isn't it ? 'I can hear the frying pan a fizzing as naterel as life , said Worm corroboratively . 
'Yes , it is remarkable , said Mr. Smith . 
'How very odd ! said Stephen , with the concern demanded of serious friendliness . 
'Odd ? That's nothing to how it is in the parish of Twinkley . 
Both the churchwardens are there , I won't say what they are and the clerk and the sexton as well . 
'How very strange ! said Stephen . 
'Strange ? My dear sir , that's nothing to how it is in the parish of Sinnerton . 
However , as to our own parish , I hope we shall make some progress soon . 
'You must trust to circumstances . 
'There are no circumstances to trust to . 
We may as well trust in Providence if we trust at all . 
A wild place , isn't it ? But I like it on such days as these . 
A delightful place to be buried in , postulating that delight can accompany a man to his tomb under any circumstances . 
Detached rocks stood upright afar , a collar of foam girding their bases , and repeating in its whiteness the plumage of a countless multitude of gulls that restlessly hovered about . 
'Now , Worm ! said Mr. Swancourt sharply and Worm started into an attitude of attention at once to receive orders . 
Elfride did not make her appearance inside the building till late in the afternoon , and came then by special invitation from Stephen during dinner . 
Worm was got rid of by sending him to measure the height of the tower . 
Presently she leant over the front of the pulpit . 
'Don't you tell papa , will you , Mr. Smith , if I tell you something ? she said with a sudden impulse to make a confidence . 
'Oh no , that I won't , said he , staring up . 
Isn't it absurd ? 'How clever you must be ! said Stephen . 
'I couldn't write a sermon for the world . 
'Oh , it's easy enough , she said , descending from the pulpit and coming close to him to explain more vividly . 
'You do it like this . 
Did you ever play a game of forfeits called When is it ? where is it ? what is it ? 'No , never . 
'Ah , that's a pity , because writing a sermon is very much like playing that game . 
You think , why is it ? what is it ? and so on . 
You put that down under Generally . 
Then you proceed to the First , Secondly , and Thirdly . 
Papa won't have Fourthlys says they are all my eye . 
Then you have a final Collectively , several pages of this being put in great black brackets , writing opposite , LEAVE THIS OUT IF THE FARMERS ARE FALLING ASLEEP . 
Then comes your In Conclusion , then A Few Words And I Have Done . 
She conversed for a minute or two with her father , and proceeded homeward , Mr. Swancourt coming on to the church to Stephen . 
The wind had freshened his warm complexion as it freshens the glow of a brand . 
He was in a mood of jollity , and watched Elfride down the hill with a smile . 
'You little flyaway ! you look wild enough now , he said , and turned to Stephen . 
'But she's not a wild child at all , Mr. Smith . 
As steady as you and that you are steady I see from your diligence here . 
'I think Miss Swancourt very clever , Stephen observed . 
'Yes , she is certainly , she is , said papa , turning his voice as much as possible to the neutral tone of disinterested criticism . 
'Now , Smith , I'll tell you something but she mustn't know it for the world not for the world , mind , for she insists upon keeping it a dead secret . 
Why , SHE WRITES MY SERMONS FOR ME OFTEN , and a very good job she makes of them ! 'She can do anything . 
The little rascal has the very trick of the trade . 
But , mind you , Smith , not a word about it to her , not a single word ! 'Not a word , said Smith . 
'Look there , said Mr. Swancourt . 
I pulled down the old rafters , fixed the new ones , put on the battens , slated the roof , all with my own hands , Worm being my assistant . 
'I don't think you know what goes on in my mind , Worm . 
'No the chair wouldn't do nohow . 
'Twas all a twist wi' the chair , like the letter Z , directly you sat down upon the chair . 
Get up , Worm , says you , when you seed the chair go all a sway wi' me . 
Up you took the chair , and flung en like fire and brimstone to t'other end of your shop all in a passion . 
Damn the chair ! says I. Just what I was thinking , says you , sir . 
I could see it in your face , sir , says I , and I hope you and God will forgi'e me for saying what you wouldn't . 
To save your life you couldn't help laughing , sir , at a poor wambler reading your thoughts so plain . 
Ay , I'm as wise as one here and there . 
I told him to be there at ten o'clock . 
He's a very intelligent man , and he will tell you all you want to know about the state of the walls . 
His name is John Smith . 
Elfride did not like to be seen again at the church with Stephen . 
'I will watch here for your appearance at the top of the tower , she said laughingly . 
'I shall see your figure against the sky . 
'And when I am up there I'll wave my handkerchief to you , Miss Swancourt , said Stephen . 
'In twelve minutes from this present moment , he added , looking at his watch , 'I'll be at the summit and look out for you . 
She went round to the corner of the sbrubbery , whence she could watch him down the slope leading to the foot of the hill on which the church stood . 
There she saw waiting for him a white spot a mason in his working clothes . 
Stephen met this man and stopped . 
Elfride looked at the time nine of the twelve minutes had passed , and Stephen showed no signs of moving . 
More minutes passed she grew cold with waiting , and shivered . 
It was not till the end of a quarter of an hour that they began to slowly wend up the hill at a snail's pace . 
'Rude and unmannerly ! she said to herself , colouring with pique . 
'Anybody would think he was in love with that horrid mason instead of with The sentence remained unspoken , though not unthought . 
She returned to the porch . 
'Is the man you sent for a lazy , sit still , do nothing kind of man ? she inquired of her father . 
'No , he said surprised 'quite the reverse . 
He is Lord Luxellian's master mason , John Smith . 
'Oh , said Elfride indifferently , and returned towards her bleak station , and waited and shivered again . 
It was a trifle , after all a childish thing looking out from a tower and waving a handkerchief . 
It was not till the end of half an hour that two figures were seen above the parapet of the dreary old pile , motionless as bitterns on a ruined mosque . 
Even then Stephen was not true enough to perform what he was so courteous to promise , and he vanished without making a sign . 
Elfride looked vexed when unconscious that his eyes were upon her when conscious , severe . 
However , her attitude of coldness had long outlived the coldness itself , and she could no longer utter feigned words of indifference . 
'Forgive , forgive me ! said Stephen with dismay . 
'I had forgotten quite forgotten ! Something prevented my remembering . 
'Any further explanation ? said Miss Capricious , pouting . 
He was silent for a few minutes , and looked askance . 
'None , he said , with the accent of one who concealed a sin . 
Chapter V 'Bosom'd high in tufted trees . 
Yet in spite of this sombre artistic effect , the morning was not one which tended to lower the spirits . 
For it did not rain , nor was rain likely to fall for many days to come . 
Elfride had turned from the table towards the fire and was idly elevating a hand screen before her face , when she heard the click of a little gate outside . 
'Ah , here's the postman ! she said , as a shuffling , active man came through an opening in the shrubbery and across the lawn . 
She vanished , and met him in the porch , afterwards coming in with her hands behind her back . 
'How many are there ? Three for papa , one for Mr. Smith , none for Miss Swancourt . 
And , papa , look here , one of yours is from whom do you think ? Lord Luxellian . 
And it has something HARD in it a lump of something . 
I've been feeling it through the envelope , and can't think what it is . 
'What does Luxellian write for , I wonder ? Mr. Swancourt had said simultaneously with her words . 
Stephen read his missive with a countenance quite the reverse of the vicar's . 
'PERCY PLACE , Thursday Evening . 
'DEAR SMITH , Old H. is in a towering rage with you for being so long about the church sketches . 
Swears you are more trouble than you are worth . 
He says I am to write and say you are to stay no longer on any consideration that he would have done it all in three hours very easily . 
I told him that you were not like an experienced hand , which he seemed to forget , but it did not make much difference . 
However , between you and me privately , if I were you I would not alarm myself for a day or so , if I were not inclined to return . 
I would make out the week and finish my spree . 
He will blow up just as much if you appear here on Saturday as if you keep away till Monday morning . 
Yours very truly , 'SIMPKINS JENKINS . 
'What is awkward ? said Miss Swancourt . 
Smith by this time recovered his equanimity , and with it the professional dignity of an experienced architect . 
'Important business demands my immediate presence in London , I regret to say , he replied . 
'What ! Must you go at once ? said Mr. Swancourt , looking over the edge of his letter . 
It is politic to do so , you mean . 
Now I can see more than you think . 
You are to be his partner . 
I booked you for that directly I read his letter to me the other day , and the way he spoke of you . 
He thinks a great deal of you , Mr. Smith , or he wouldn't be so anxious for your return . 
And then , unaccountably , his speaking face exhibited a cloud of sadness , which a reflection on the remoteness of any such contingency could hardly have sufficed to cause . 
Elfride was struck with that look of his even Mr. Swancourt noticed it . 
'Well , he said cheerfully , 'never mind that now . 
You must come again on your own account not on business . 
Come to see me as a visitor , you know say , in your holidays all you town men have holidays like schoolboys . 
When are they ? 'In August , I believe . 
'Very well come in August and then you need not hurry away so . 
I am glad to get somebody decent to talk to , or at , in this outlandish ultima Thule . 
But , by the bye , I have something to say you won't go to day ? 'No I need not , said Stephen hesitatingly . 
'I am not obliged to get back before Monday morning . 
'Very well , then , that brings me to what I am going to propose . 
This is a letter from Lord Luxellian . 
I think you heard me speak of him as the resident landowner in this district , and patron of this living ? 'I know of him . 
'He is in London now . 
It seems that he has run up on business for a day or two , and taken Lady Luxellian with him . 
He has written to ask me to go to his house , and search for a paper among his private memoranda , which he forgot to take with him . 
'What did he send in the letter ? inquired Elfride . 
'The key of a private desk in which the papers are . 
He doesn't like to trust such a matter to any body else . 
I have done such things for him before . 
And what I propose is , that we make an afternoon of it all three of us . 
Go for a drive to Targan Bay , come home by way of Endelstow House and whilst I am looking over the documents you can ramble about the rooms where you like . 
I have the run of the house at any time , you know . 
The building , though nothing but a mass of gables outside , has a splendid hall , staircase , and gallery within and there are a few good pictures . 
'Yes , there are , said Stephen . 
'Have you seen the place , then ? 'I saw it as I came by , he said hastily . 
'Oh yes but I was alluding to the interior . 
Eval's is much older than our St . 
I do duty in that and this alternately , you know . 
The fact is , I ought to have some help riding across that park for two miles on a wet morning is not at all the thing . 
And when the family goes away , there are only about three servants to preach to when I get there . 
Well , that shall be the arrangement , then . 
Elfride , you will like to go ? Elfride assented and the little breakfast party separated . 
Stephen rose to go and take a few final measurements at the church , the vicar following him to the door with a mysterious expression of inquiry on his face . 
'You'll put up with our not having family prayer this morning , I hope ? he whispered . 
'Yes quite so , said Stephen . 
I am very strict on that point . 
But you , Smith , there is something in your face which makes me feel quite at home no nonsense about you , in short . 
'Was it a good story ? said young Smith , smiling too . 
They started at three o'clock . 
The gray morning had resolved itself into an afternoon bright with a pale pervasive sunlight , without the sun itself being visible . 
Targan Bay which had the merit of being easily got at was duly visited . 
They then swept round by innumerable lanes , in which not twenty consecutive yards were either straight or level , to the domain of Lord Luxellian . 
A woman with a double chin and thick neck , like Queen Anne by Dahl , threw open the lodge gate , a little boy standing behind her . 
'I'll give him something , poor little fellow , said Elfride , pulling out her purse and hastily opening it . 
From the interior of her purse a host of bits of paper , like a flock of white birds , floated into the air , and were blown about in all directions . 
'Well , to be sure ! said Stephen with a slight laugh . 
'What the dickens is all that ? said Mr. Swancourt . 
'Not halves of bank notes , Elfride ? Elfride looked annoyed and guilty . 
He handed them back to her , and remounted . 
'I suppose you are wondering what those scraps were ? she said , as they bowled along up the sycamore avenue . 
'And so I may as well tell you . 
They are notes for a romance I am writing . 
She could not help colouring at the confession , much as she tried to avoid it . 
'A story , do you mean ? said Stephen , Mr. Swancourt half listening , and catching a word of the conversation now and then . 
'Yes THE COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE a romance of the fifteenth century . 
Such writing is out of date now , I know but I like doing it . 
'A romance carried in a purse ! If a highwayman were to rob you , he would be taken in . 
'Yes that's my way of carrying manuscript . 
The real reason is , that I mostly write bits of it on scraps of paper when I am on horseback and I put them there for convenience . 
'What are you going to do with your romance when you have written it ? said Stephen . 
'I don't know , she replied , and turned her head to look at the prospect . 
For by this time they had reached the precincts of Endelstow House . 
The substantial portions of the existing building dated from the reign of Henry VIII . 
but the picturesque and sheltered spot had been the site of an erection of a much earlier date . 
A licence to crenellate mansum infra manerium suum was granted by Edward II . 
to 'Hugo Luxellen chivaler but though the faint outline of the ditch and mound was visible at points , no sign of the original building remained . 
The windows on all sides were long and many mullioned the roof lines broken up by dormer lights of the same pattern . 
The apex stones of these dormers , together with those of the gables , were surmounted by grotesque figures in rampant , passant , and couchant variety . 
As Mr. Swancourt had remarked , he had the freedom of the mansion in the absence of its owner . 
Upon a statement of his errand they were all admitted to the library , and left entirely to themselves . 
Mr. Swancourt was soon up to his eyes in the examination of a heap of papers he had taken from the cabinet described by his correspondent . 
Stephen and Elfride had nothing to do but to wander about till her father was ready . 
Elfride entered the gallery , and Stephen followed her without seeming to do so . 
It was a long sombre apartment , enriched with fittings a century or so later in style than the walls of the mansion . 
Pilasters of Renaissance workmanship supported a cornice from which sprang a curved ceiling , panelled in the awkward twists and curls of the period . 
The old Gothic quarries still remained in the upper portion of the large window at the end , though they had made way for a more modern form of glazing elsewhere . 
The silence , which cast almost a spell upon them , was broken by the sudden opening of a door at the far end . 
Out bounded a pair of little girls , lightly yet warmly dressed . 
Their eyes were sparkling their hair swinging about and around their red mouths laughing with unalloyed gladness . 
'Ah , Miss Swancourt dearest Elfie ! we heard you . 
Are you going to stay here ? You are our little mamma , are you not our big mamma is gone to London , said one . 
'Let me tiss you , said the other , in appearance very much like the first , but to a smaller pattern . 
Their pink cheeks and yellow hair were speedily intermingled with the folds of Elfride's dress she then stooped and tenderly embraced them both . 
'Such an odd thing , said Elfride , smiling , and turning to Stephen . 
These two young creatures were the Honourable Mary and the Honourable Kate scarcely appearing large enough as yet to bear the weight of such ponderous prefixes . 
Lord Luxellian was dotingly fond of the children rather indifferent towards his wife , since she had begun to show an inclination not to please him by giving him a boy . 
All children instinctively ran after Elfride , looking upon her more as an unusually nice large specimen of their own tribe than as a grown up elder . 
'I wish you lived here , Miss Swancourt , piped one like a melancholy bullfinch . 
'So do I , piped the other like a rather more melancholy bullfinch . 
'Mamma can't play with us so nicely as you do . 
I don't think she ever learnt playing when she was little . 
When shall we come to see you ? 'As soon as you like , dears . 
'And sleep at your house all night ? That's what I mean by coming to see you . 
I don't care to see people with hats and bonnets on , and all standing up and walking about . 
'As soon as we can get mamma's permission you shall come and stay as long as ever you like . 
Good bye ! The prisoners were then led off , Elfride again turning her attention to her guest , whom she had left standing at the remote end of the gallery . 
On looking around for him he was nowhere to be seen . 
Elfride stepped down to the library , thinking he might have rejoined her father there . 
But Mr. Swancourt , now cheerfully illuminated by a pair of candles , was still alone , untying packets of letters and papers , and tying them up again . 
One of these light spots she found to be caused by a side door with glass panels in the upper part . 
Elfride opened it , and found herself confronting a secondary or inner lawn , separated from the principal lawn front by a shrubbery . 
And now she saw a perplexing sight . 
On the blind was a shadow from somebody close inside it a person in profile . 
The profile was unmistakably that of Stephen . 
It was just possible to see that his arms were uplifted , and that his hands held an article of some kind . 
Then another shadow appeared also in profile and came close to him . 
This was the shadow of a woman . 
Did he then kiss her ? Surely not . 
Yet the motion might have been a kiss . 
Then both shadows swelled to colossal dimensions grew distorted vanished . 
'Ah , Miss Swancourt ! I am so glad to find you . 
I was looking for you , said a voice at her elbow Stephen's voice . 
She stepped into the passage . 
'Do you know any of the members of this establishment ? said she . 
'Not a single one how should I ? he replied . 
Chapter VI 'Fare thee weel awhile ! Simultaneously with the conclusion of Stephen's remark , the sound of the closing of an external door in their immediate neighbourhood reached Elfride's ears . 
It came from the further side of the wing containing the illuminated room . 
She then discerned , by the aid of the dusky departing light , a figure , whose sex was undistinguishable , walking down the gravelled path by the parterre towards the river . 
The figure grew fainter , and vanished under the trees . 
Mr. Swancourt's voice was heard calling out their names from a distant corridor in the body of the building . 
No words were spoken either by youth or maiden . 
Her unpractised mind was completely occupied in fathoming its recent acquisition . 
What room were they standing in ? thought Elfride . 
As nearly as she could guess , it was Lord Luxellian's business room , or office . 
What people were in the house ? None but the governess and servants , as far as she knew , and of these he had professed a total ignorance . 
The more Elfride reflected , the more certain did it appear that the meeting was a chance rencounter , and not an appointment . 
On the ultimate inquiry as to the individuality of the woman , Elfride at once assumed that she could not be an inferior . 
Stephen Smith was not the man to care about passages at love with women beneath him . 
Though gentle , ambition was visible in his kindling eyes he evidently hoped for much hoped indefinitely , but extensively . 
Elfride was puzzled , and being puzzled , was , by a natural sequence of girlish sensations , vexed with him . 
No more pleasure came in recognizing that from liking to attract him she was getting on to love him , boyish as he was and innocent as he had seemed . 
They reached the bridge which formed a link between the eastern and western halves of the parish . 
Situated in a valley that was bounded outwardly by the sea , it formed a point of depression from which the road ascended with great steepness to West Endelstow and the Vicarage . 
The young man seemed glad of any excuse for breaking the silence . 
'Why , Miss Swancourt , what a risky thing to do ! he exclaimed , immediately following her example by jumping down on the other side . 
'Oh no , not at all , replied she coldly the shadow phenomenon at Endelstow House still paramount within her . 
Stephen walked along by himself for two or three minutes , wrapped in the rigid reserve dictated by her tone . 
Her callow heart made an epoch of the incident she considered her array of feelings , for and against . 
Collectively they were for taking this offered arm the single one of pique determined her to punish Stephen by refusing . 
'No , thank you , Mr. Smith I can get along better by myself' It was Elfride's first fragile attempt at browbeating a lover . 
Fearing more the issue of such an undertaking than what a gentle young man might think of her waywardness , she immediately afterwards determined to please herself by reversing her statement . 
'On second thoughts , I will take it , she said . 
They slowly went their way up the hill , a few yards behind the carriage . 
'How silent you are , Miss Swancourt ! Stephen observed . 
'Perhaps I think you silent too , she returned . 
'I may have reason to be . 
'Scarcely it is sadness that makes people silent , and you can have none . 
'You don't know I have a trouble though some might think it less a trouble than a dilemma . 
'What is it ? she asked impulsively . 
'I might tell , he said 'at the same time , perhaps , it is as well She let go his arm and imperatively pushed it from her , tossing her head . 
'I don't wish to know anything of it I don't wish it , she went on . 
'The carriage is waiting for us at the top of the hill we must get in and Elfride flitted to the front . 
'Ah , yes ! uttered the vicar in artificially alert tones , awaking from a most profound sleep , and suddenly preparing to alight . 
'Why , what are you doing , papa ? We are not home yet . 
'The fact is I was so lost in deep meditation that I forgot whereabouts we were . 
And in a minute the vicar was snoring again . 
He left them in the gray light of dawn , whilst the colours of earth were sombre , and the sun was yet hidden in the east . 
To some extent so soon does womanly interest take a solicitous turn she felt herself responsible for his safe conduct . 
They breakfasted before daylight Mr. Swancourt , being more and more taken with his guest's ingenuous appearance , having determined to rise early and bid him a friendly farewell . 
It was , however , rather to the vicar's astonishment , that he saw Elfride walk in to the breakfast table , candle in hand . 
, Elfride wandered desultorily to the summer house . 
'Well , good bye , he said suddenly 'I must never see you again , I suppose , Miss Swancourt , in spite of invitations . 
His genuine tribulation played directly upon the delicate chords of her nature . 
She could afford to forgive him for a concealment or two . 
Moreover , the shyness which would not allow him to look her in the face lent bravery to her own eyes and tongue . 
'Oh , DO come again , Mr. Smith ! she said prettily . 
'I should delight in it but it will be better if I do not . 
'Why ? 'Certain circumstances in connection with me make it undesirable . 
Not on my account on yours . 
'Goodness ! As if anything in connection with you could hurt me , she said with serene supremacy but seeing that this plan of treatment was inappropriate , she tuned a smaller note . 
'Ah , I know why you will not come . 
You'll go home to London and to all the stirring people there , and will never want to see us any more ! 'You know I have no such reason . 
'And go on writing letters to the lady you are engaged to , just as before . 
'What does that mean ? I am not engaged . 
'You wrote a letter to a Miss Somebody I saw it in the letter rack . 
'Pooh ! an elderly woman who keeps a stationer's shop and it was to tell her to keep my newspapers till I get back . 
'You needn't have explained it was not my business at all . 
Miss Elfride was rather relieved to hear that statement , nevertheless . 
'And you won't come again to see my father ? she insisted . 
'I should like to and to see you again , but 'Will you reveal to me that matter you hide ? she interrupted petulantly . 
She could not but go on , graceless as it might seem . 
'Tell me this , she importuned with a trembling mouth . 
'Does any meeting of yours with a lady at Endelstow Vicarage clash with any interest you may take in me ? He started a little . 
'It does not , he said emphatically and looked into the pupils of her eyes with the confidence that only honesty can give , and even that to youth alone . 
The explanation had not come , but a gloom left her . 
She could not but believe that utterance . 
Whatever enigma might lie in the shadow on the blind , it was not an enigma of underhand passion . 
She turned towards the house , entering it through the conservatory . 
Stephen went round to the front door . 
Mr. Swancourt was standing on the step in his slippers . 
Worm was adjusting a buckle in the harness , and murmuring about his poor head and everything was ready for Stephen's departure . 
'You named August for your visit . 
August it shall be that is , if you care for the society of such a fossilized Tory , said Mr. Swancourt . 
Mr. Smith only responded hesitatingly , that he should like to come again . 
'You said you would , and you must , insisted Elfride , coming to the door and speaking under her father's arm . 
Whatever reason the youth may have had for not wishing to enter the house as a guest , it no longer predominated . 
He promised , and bade them adieu , and got into the pony carriage , which crept up the slope , and bore him out of their sight . 
Chapter VII 'No more of me you knew , my love ! Stephen Smith revisited Endelstow Vicarage , agreeably to his promise . 
He had a genuine artistic reason for coming , though no such reason seemed to be required . 
He entered the house at sunset , and the world was pleasant again to the two fair haired ones . 
Surprise would have accompanied the feeling , had she not remembered that several tourists were haunting the coast at this season , and that Stephen might have chosen to do likewise . 
The next day it rained . 
In the evening , when twenty four hours of Elfride had completely rekindled her admirer's ardour , a game of chess was proposed between them . 
The game had its value in helping on the developments of their future . 
Elfride soon perceived that her opponent was but a learner . 
She next noticed that he had a very odd way of handling the pieces when castling or taking a man . 
'How strangely you handle the men , Mr. Smith ! 'Do I ? I am sorry for that . 
'Oh no don't be sorry it is not a matter great enough for sorrow . 
But who taught you to play ? 'Nobody , Miss Swancourt , he said . 
'I learnt from a book lent me by my friend Mr. Knight , the noblest man in the world . 
'But you have seen people play ? 'I have never seen the playing of a single game . 
This is the first time I ever had the opportunity of playing with a living opponent . 
I have worked out many games from books , and studied the reasons of the different moves , but that is all . 
She pondered on the circumstance for some time , looking into vacancy and hindering the play . 
Mr. Swancourt was sitting with his eyes fixed on the board , but apparently thinking of other things . 
Half to himself he said , pending the move of Elfride Quae finis aut quod me manet stipendium ? Stephen replied instantly Effare jussas cum fide poenas luam . 
'Excellent prompt gratifying ! said Mr. Swancourt with feeling , bringing down his hand upon the table , and making three pawns and a knight dance over their borders by the shaking . 
'I was musing on those words as applicable to a strange course I am steering but enough of that . 
'I also apply the words to myself , said Stephen quietly . 
'You ? The last man in the world to do that , I should have thought . 
'Come , murmured Elfride poutingly , and insinuating herself between them , 'tell me all about it . 
, though your translation was unexceptionably correct and close , you have a way of pronouncing your Latin which to me seems most peculiar . 
Not that the pronunciation of a dead language is of much importance yet your accents and quantities have a grotesque sound to my ears . 
I thought first that you had acquired your way of breathing the vowels from some of the northern colleges but it cannot be so with the quantities . 
What I was going to ask was , if your instructor in the classics could possibly have been an Oxford or Cambridge man ? 'Yes he was an Oxford man Fellow of St . 
'Really ? 'Oh yes there's no doubt about it . 
'The oddest thing ever I heard of ! said Mr. Swancourt , starting with astonishment . 
'That the pupil of such a man 'The best and cleverest man in England ! cried Stephen enthusiastically . 
'That the pupil of such a man should pronounce Latin in the way you pronounce it beats all I ever heard . 
How long did he instruct you ? 'Four years . 
'Four years ! 'It is not so strange when I explain , Stephen hastened to say . 
'It was done in this way by letter . 
I sent him exercises and construing twice a week , and twice a week he sent them back to me corrected , with marginal notes of instruction . 
That is how I learnt my Latin and Greek , such as it is . 
He is not responsible for my scanning . 
He has never heard me scan a line . 
'A novel case , and a singular instance of patience ! cried the vicar . 
'On his part , not on mine . 
Ah , Henry Knight is one in a thousand ! I remember his speaking to me on this very subject of pronunciation . 
But no further explanation was volunteered and they saw , by the young man's manner of concentrating himself upon the chess board , that he was anxious to drop the subject . 
Elfride played by rote Stephen by thought . 
It was the cruellest thing to checkmate him after so much labour , she considered . 
What was she dishonest enough to do in her compassion ? To let him checkmate her . 
, she allowed him to give checkmate again . 
A final game , in which she adopted the Muzio gambit as her opening , was terminated by Elfride's victory at the twelfth move . 
His heart was throbbing even more excitedly than was hers , which itself had quickened when she seriously set to work on this last occasion . 
Mr. Swancourt had left the room . 
'You have been trifling with me till now ! he exclaimed , his face flushing . 
'You did not play your best in the first two games ? Elfride's guilt showed in her face . 
Stephen became the picture of vexation and sadness , which , relishable for a moment , caused her the next instant to regret the mistake she had made . 
Smith , forgive me ! she said sweetly . 
'I see now , though I did not at first , that what I have done seems like contempt for your skill . 
But , indeed , I did not mean it in that sense . 
I could not , upon my conscience , win a victory in those first and second games over one who fought at such a disadvantage and so manfully . 
So entirely new was full blown love to Elfride , that she trembled as much from the novelty of the emotion as from the emotion itself . 
Then she suddenly withdrew herself and stood upright , vexed that she had submitted unresistingly even to his momentary pressure . 
She resolved to consider this demonstration as premature . 
'You must not begin such things as those , she said with coquettish hauteur of a very transparent nature 'And you must not do so again and papa is coming . 
'Let me kiss you only a little one , he said with his usual delicacy , and without reading the factitiousness of her manner . 
'Only on your cheek ? 'No . 
'You care for somebody else , then ? Ah , I thought so ! 'I am sure I do not . 
'Nor for me either ? 'How can I tell ? she said simply , the simplicity lying merely in the broad outlines of her manner and speech . 
There were the semitone of voice and half hidden expression of eyes which tell the initiated how very fragile is the ice of reserve at these times . 
Mr. Swancourt then entered the room , and their private colloquy ended . 
The day after this partial revelation , Mr. Swancourt proposed a drive to the cliffs beyond Targan Bay , a distance of three or four miles . 
They be at it again this morning same as ever fizz , fizz , fizz ! 'Your head bad again , Worm ? said Mr. Swancourt . 
'Dear me , the shaft of the carriage broken ! cried Elfride . 
She was disappointed Stephen doubly so . 
The vicar showed more warmth of temper than the accident seemed to demand , much to Stephen's uneasiness and rather to his surprise . 
He had not supposed so much latent sternness could co exist with Mr. Swancourt's frankness and good nature . 
'You shall not be disappointed , said the vicar at length . 
'It is almost too long a distance for you to walk . 
Elfride can trot down on her pony , and you shall have my old nag , Smith . 
Elfride exclaimed triumphantly , 'You have never seen me on horseback Oh , you must ! She looked at Stephen and read his thoughts immediately . 
'Ah , you don't ride , Mr. Smith ? 'I am sorry to say I don't . 
'Fancy a man not able to ride ! said she rather pertly . 
The vicar came to his rescue . 
'That's common enough he has had other lessons to learn . 
Now , I recommend this plan let Elfride ride on horseback , and you , Mr. Smith , walk beside her . 
The arrangement was welcomed with secret delight by Stephen . 
It seemed to combine in itself all the advantages of a long slow ramble with Elfride , without the contingent possibility of the enjoyment being spoilt by her becoming weary . 
The pony was saddled and brought round . 
It would be doing me knight service if you keep your eyes fixed upon them , and remember them every minute of the day , and tell me directly I drop one . 
They have had such hairbreadth escapes , haven't they , Unity ? she continued to the parlour maid who was standing at the door . 
'Yes , miss , that they have ! said Unity with round eyed commiseration . 
'Once 'twas in the lane that I found one of them , pursued Elfride reflectively . 
'And then 'twas by the gate into Eighteen Acres , Unity chimed in . 
'And then 'twas on the carpet in my own room , rejoined Elfride merrily . 
He staggered and lifted , and the horse edged round and Elfride was ultimately deposited upon the ground rather more forcibly than was pleasant . 
'Never mind , said the vicar encouragingly 'try again ! 'Tis a little accomplishment that requires some practice , although it looks so easy . 
Stand closer to the horse's head , Mr. Smith . 
'Indeed , I shan't let him try again , said she with a microscopic look of indignation . 
'Worm , come here , and help me to mount . 
Worm stepped forward , and she was in the saddle in a trice . 
Stephen lifted his eyes earnestly to hers . 
'You know , he said , 'it is simply because there are so many other things to be learnt in this wide world that I didn't trouble about that particular bit of knowledge . 
I thought it would be useless to me but I don't think so now . 
I will learn riding , and all connected with it , because then you would like me better . 
Do you like me much less for this ? She looked sideways at him with critical meditation tenderly rendered . 
'Do I seem like LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI ? she began suddenly , without replying to his question . 
'No , no , said the young man stilly , and with a rising colour . 
And sure in language strange she said , I love thee true . 
'Not at all , she rejoined quickly . 
'See how I can gallop . 
Now , Pansy , off ! And Elfride started and Stephen beheld her light figure contracting to the dimensions of a bird as she sank into the distance her hair flowing . 
He walked on in the same direction , and for a considerable time could see no signs of her returning . 
Dull as a flower without the sun he sat down upon a stone , and not for fifteen minutes was any sound of horse or rider to be heard . 
Then Elfride and Pansy appeared on the hill in a round trot . 
'Such a delightful scamper as we have had ! she said , her face flushed and her eyes sparkling . 
She turned the horse's head , Stephen arose , and they went on again . 
'I cannot exactly answer now , either . 
'Why can't you ? 'Because I don't know if I am more to you than any one else . 
'Yes , indeed , you are ! he exclaimed in a voice of intensest appreciation , at the same time gliding round and looking into her face . 
'Eyes in eyes , he murmured playfully and she blushingly obeyed , looking back into his . 
'And why not lips on lips ? continued Stephen daringly . 
Anybody might look and it would be the death of me . 
You may kiss my hand if you like . 
He expressed by a look that to kiss a hand through a glove , and that a riding glove , was not a great treat under the circumstances . 
'There , then I'll take my glove off . 
I would die for you , Elfride ! A rapid red again filled her cheeks , and she looked at him meditatively . 
What a proud moment it was for Elfride then ! She was ruling a heart with absolute despotism for the first time in her life . 
Stephen stealthily pounced upon her hand . 
'No I won't , I won't ! she said intractably 'and you shouldn't take me by surprise . 
Elfride recovered her position and remembered herself . 
'You make me behave in not a nice way at all ! she exclaimed , in a tone neither of pleasure nor anger , but partaking of both . 
'I ought not to have allowed such a romp ! We are too old now for that sort of thing . 
'You are too familiar and I can't have it ! Considering the shortness of the time we have known each other , Mr. Smith , you take too much upon you . 
I wanted to imprint a sweet serious kiss upon your hand and that's all . 
'Now , that's creeping round again ! And you mustn't look into my eyes so , she said , shaking her head at him , and trotting on a few paces in advance . 
Thus she led the way out of the lane and across some fields in the direction of the cliffs . 
At the boundary of the fields nearest the sea she expressed a wish to dismount . 
The horse was tied to a post . 
Right and left ranked the toothed and zigzag line of storm torn heights , forming the series which culminated in the one beneath their feet . 
Behind the youth and maiden was a tempting alcove and seat , formed naturally in the beetling mass , and wide enough to admit two or three persons . 
Elfride sat down , and Stephen sat beside her . 
'I am afraid it is hardly proper of us to be here , either , she said half inquiringly . 
'We have not known each other long enough for this kind of thing , have we ! 'Oh yes , he replied judicially 'quite long enough . 
'How do you know ? 'It is not length of time , but the manner in which our minutes beat , that makes enough or not enough in our acquaintanceship . 
'Yes , I see that . 
But I wish papa suspected or knew what a VERY NEW THING I am doing . 
He does not think of it at all . 
Do you love me deeply , deeply ? 'No ! she said in a fluster . 
'Oh , my Elfride ! he exclaimed , and kissed her . 
It was Elfride's first kiss . 
And so awkward and unused was she full of striving no relenting . 
That graceful though apparently accidental falling into position , which many have noticed as precipitating the end and making sweethearts the sweeter , was not here . 
Why ? Because experience was absent . 
A woman must have had many kisses before she kisses well . 
In fact , the art of tendering the lips for these amatory salutes follows the principles laid down in treatises on legerdemain for performing the trick called Forcing a Card . 
'And you do care for me and love me ? said he . 
'And I mustn't ask you if you'll wait for me , and be my wife some day ? 'Why not ? she said naively . 
'There is a reason why , my Elfride . 
'Not any one that I know of . 
'Is that all ? Some outside circumstance ? What do I care ? 'You can hardly judge , dear , till you know what has to be judged . 
For that , we will stop till we get home . 
I believe in you , but I cannot feel bright . 
'Love is new , and fresh to us as the dew and we are together . 
As the lover's world goes , this is a great deal . 
Stephen , I fancy I see the difference between me and you between men and women generally , perhaps . 
I am content to build happiness on any accidental basis that may lie near at hand you are for making a world to suit your happiness . 
'Elfride , you sometimes say things which make you seem suddenly to become five years older than you are , or than I am and that remark is one . 
I couldn't think so OLD as that , try how I might . 
And no lover has ever kissed you before ? 'Never . 
'I knew that you were so unused . 
You ride well , but you don't kiss nicely at all and I was told once , by my friend Knight , that that is an excellent fault in woman . 
'Now , come I must mount again , or we shall not be home by dinner time . 
And they returned to where Pansy stood tethered . 
, in the form of a gate . 
There now I am myself again . 
They proceeded homeward at the same walking pace . 
Her blitheness won Stephen out of his thoughtfulness , and each forgot everything but the tone of the moment . 
'What did you love me for ? she said , after a long musing look at a flying bird . 
'I don't know , he replied idly . 
'Oh yes , you do , insisted Elfride . 
'Perhaps , for your eyes . 
'What of them ? now , don't vex me by a light answer . 
What of my eyes ? 'Oh , nothing to be mentioned . 
'Come , Stephen , I won't have that . 
'With a pretty pout and sweet lips but actually , nothing more than what everybody has . 
'Don't make up things out of your head as you go on , there's a dear Stephen . 
But I am not altogether sure . 
, 'when you said to yourself , I'll certainly love that young lady . 
'When you said to yourself , then , I never will love that young lady . 
'I didn't say that , either . 
'Then was it , I suppose I must love that young lady ? 'No . 
'What , then ? ''Twas much more fluctuating not so definite . 
'Tell me do , do . 
'It was that I ought not to think about you if I loved you truly . 
'Ah , that I don't understand . 
There's no getting it out of you . 
And I'll not ask you ever any more never more to say out of the deep reality of your heart what you loved me for . 
Is that enough ? 'Yes I will make it do . 
I know , I think , what I love you for . 
You are nice looking , of course but I didn't mean for that . 
It is because you are so docile and gentle . 
'Those are not quite the correct qualities for a man to be loved for , said Stephen , in rather a dissatisfied tone of self criticism . 
I must ask your father to allow us to be engaged directly we get indoors . 
It will be for a long time . 
'I like it the better . 
Stephen , don't mention it till to morrow . 
'Why ? 'Because , if he should object I don't think he will but if he should we shall have a day longer of happiness from our ignorance . 
Well , what are you thinking of so deeply ? 'I was thinking how my dear friend Knight would enjoy this scene . 
I wish he could come here . 
'You seem very much engrossed with him , she answered , with a jealous little toss . 
'He must be an interesting man to take up so much of your attention . 
'Interesting ! said Stephen , his face glowing with his fervour 'noble , you ought to say . 
'Oh yes , yes I forgot , she said half satirically . 
'The noblest man in England , as you told us last night . 
'He is a fine fellow , laugh as you will , Miss Elfie . 
'I know he is your hero . 
But what does he do ? anything ? 'He writes . 
'What does he write ? I have never heard of his name . 
'Because his personality , and that of several others like him , is absorbed into a huge WE , namely , the impalpable entity called the PRESENT a social and literary Review . 
'Is he only a reviewer ? 'ONLY , Elfie ! Why , I can tell you it is a fine thing to be on the staff of the PRESENT . 
Finer than being a novelist considerably . 
'That's a hit at me , and my poor COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE . 
'No , Elfride , he whispered 'I didn't mean that . 
I mean that he is really a literary man of some eminence , and not altogether a reviewer . 
He writes things of a higher class than reviews , though he reviews a book occasionally . 
His ordinary productions are social and ethical essays all that the PRESENT contains which is not literary reviewing . 
'I admit he must be talented if he writes for the PRESENT . 
We have it sent to us irregularly . 
I want papa to be a subscriber , but he's so conservative . 
Now the next point in this Mr. Knight I suppose he is a very good man . 
I shall try to be his intimate friend some day . 
'But aren't you now ? 'No not so much as that , replied Stephen , as if such a supposition were extravagant . 
'You see , it was in this way he came originally from the same place as I , and taught me things but I am not intimate with him . 
Shan't I be glad when I get richer and better known , and hob and nob with him ! Stephen's eyes sparkled . 
A pout began to shape itself upon Elfride's soft lips . 
'You think always of him , and like him better than you do me ! 'No , indeed , Elfride . 
The feeling is different quite . 
But I do like him , and he deserves even more affection from me than I give . 
'You are not nice now , and you make me as jealous as possible ! she exclaimed perversely . 
'I know you will never speak to any third person of me so warmly as you do to me of him . 
'But you don't understand , Elfride , he said with an anxious movement . 
'You shall know him some day . 
He is so brilliant no , it isn't exactly brilliant so thoughtful nor does thoughtful express him that it would charm you to talk to him . 
He's a most desirable friend , and that isn't half I could say . 
'I don't care how good he is I don't want to know him , because he comes between me and you . 
You think of him night and day , ever so much more than of anybody else and when you are thinking of him , I am shut out of your mind . 
'No , dear Elfride I love you dearly . 
'And I don't like you to tell me so warmly about him when you are in the middle of loving me . 
'Both of you , he said , pressing her pendent hand . 
'No , that won't do only one of us . 
'I cannot say I don't know . 
It is disagreeable quite a horrid idea to have to handle . 
'A ha , I know . 
At this point in the discussion she trotted off to turn a corner which was avoided by the footpath , the road and the path reuniting at a point a little further on . 
On again making her appearance she continually managed to look in a direction away from him , and left him in the cool shade of her displeasure . 
Stephen was soon beaten at this game of indifference . 
He went round and entered the range of her vision . 
'Are you offended , Elfie ? Why don't you talk ? 'Save me , then , and let that Mr. Clever of yours drown . 
Now , which would you ? 'Really , Elfride , you should not press such a hard question . 
'Then I won't be alone with you any more . 
Unkind , to wound me so ! She laughed at her own absurdity but persisted . 
'Come , Elfie , let's make it up and be friends . 
'Say you would save me , then , and let him drown . 
'I would save you and him too . 
Come , or you don't love me ! she teasingly went on . 
'And let him drown , he ejaculated despairingly . 
'There now I am yours ! she said , and a woman's flush of triumph lit her eyes . 
'Only one earring , miss , as I'm alive , said Unity on their entering the hall . 
With a face expressive of wretched misgiving , Elfride's hand flew like an arrow to her ear . 
'There ! she exclaimed to Stephen , looking at him with eyes full of reproach . 
'I quite forgot , indeed . 
If I had only remembered ! he answered , with a conscience stricken face . 
She wheeled herself round , and turned into the shrubbery . 
'If you had told me to watch anything , Stephen , I should have religiously done it , she capriciously went on , as soon as she heard him behind her . 
'Well , you will find it , if you want me to respect you and be engaged to you when we have asked papa . 
She considered a moment , and added more seriously , 'I know now where I dropped it , Stephen . 
It was on the cliff . 
I remember a faint sensation of some change about me , but I was too absent to think of it then . 
And that's where it is now , and you must go and look there . 
And he strode away up the valley , under a broiling sun and amid the deathlike silence of early afternoon . 
He walked along the path by the river without the slightest hesitation as to its bearing , apparently quite familiar with every inch of the ground . 
As the shadows began to lengthen and the sunlight to mellow , he passed through two wicket gates , and drew near the outskirts of Endelstow Park . 
The river now ran along under the park fence , previous to entering the grove itself , a little further on . 
Here stood a cottage , between the fence and the stream , on a slightly elevated spot of ground , round which the river took a turn . 
Stephen crossed the little wood bridge in front , went up to the cottage door , and opened it without knock or signal of any kind . 
The door was closed again , and nothing could now be heard from within , save a lively chatter and the rattle of plates . 
Chapter VIII 'Allen a Dale is no baron or lord . 
The mists were creeping out of pools and swamps for their pilgrimages of the night when Stephen came up to the front door of the vicarage . 
Elfride was standing on the step illuminated by a lemon hued expanse of western sky . 
'You never have been all this time looking for that earring ? she said anxiously . 
'Oh no and I have not found it . 
Though I am much vexed they are my prettiest . 
But , Stephen , what ever have you been doing where have you been ? I have been so uneasy . 
I feared for you , knowing not an inch of the country . 
I thought , suppose he has fallen over the cliff ! But now I am inclined to scold you for frightening me so . 
'I must speak to your father now , he said rather abruptly 'I have so much to say to him and to you , Elfride . 
She breathed heavily , and looked around as if for a prompter . 
'Put it off till to morrow , she said . 
'No it must come to night . 
Where is your father , Elfride ? 'Somewhere in the kitchen garden , I think , she replied . 
'That is his favourite evening retreat . 
I will leave you now . 
Say all that's to be said do all there is to be done . 
Think of me waiting anxiously for the end . 
And she re entered the house . 
She passed round the shrubbery , unlatched the garden door , and skimmed with her keen eyes the whole twilighted space that the four walls enclosed and sheltered they were not there . 
She mounted a little ladder , which had been used for gathering fruit , and looked over the wall into the field . 
This field extended to the limits of the glebe , which was enclosed on that side by a privet hedge . 
Under the hedge was Mr. Swancourt , walking up and down , and talking aloud to himself , as it sounded at first . 
No another voice shouted occasional replies and this interlocutor seemed to be on the other side of the hedge . 
The voice , though soft in quality , was not Stephen's . 
Her father might have struck up an acquaintanceship with some member of that family through the privet hedge , or a stranger to the neighbourhood might have wandered thither . 
Well , there was no necessity for disturbing him . 
And it seemed that , after all , Stephen had not yet made his desired communication to her father . 
Again she went indoors , wondering where Stephen could be . 
For want of something better to do , she went upstairs to her own little room . 
Here she sat down at the open window , and , leaning with her elbow on the table and her cheek upon her hand , she fell into meditation . 
It was a hot and still August night . 
Every disturbance of the silence which rose to the dignity of a noise could be heard for miles , and the merest sound for a long distance . 
So she remained , thinking of Stephen , and wishing he had not deprived her of his company to no purpose , as it appeared . 
How delicate and sensitive he was , she reflected and yet he was man enough to have a private mystery , which considerably elevated him in her eyes . 
Thus , looking at things with an inward vision , she lost consciousness of the flight of time . 
What occurred to Elfride at this moment was a case in point . 
A kiss not of the quiet and stealthy kind , but decisive , loud , and smart . 
Her face flushed and she looked out , but to no purpose . 
It was just possible that , had any persons been standing on the grassy portions of the lawn , Elfride might have seen their dusky forms . 
But the shrubs , which once had merely dotted the glade , had now grown bushy and large , till they hid at least half the enclosure containing them . 
The kissing pair might have been behind some of these at any rate , nobody was in sight . 
'I didn't know you were indoors , papa , she said with surprise . 
'Surely no light was shining from the window when I was on the lawn ? and she looked and saw that the shutters were still open . 
'Oh yes , I am in , he said indifferently . 
'What did you want Unity for ? I think she laid supper before she went out . 
'Did she ? I have not been to see I didn't want her for that . 
Elfride scarcely knew , now that a definite reason was required , what that reason was . 
Her mind for a moment strayed to another subject , unimportant as it seemed . 
The red ember of a match was lying inside the fender , which explained that why she had seen no rays from the window was because the candles had only just been lighted . 
'I'll come directly , said the vicar . 
'I thought you were out somewhere with Mr. Smith . 
'Has your trouble anything to do with a kiss on the lawn ? she asked abruptly , almost passionately . 
'Kiss on the lawn ? 'Yes ! she said , imperiously now . 
'I didn't comprehend your meaning , nor do I now exactly . 
I certainly have kissed nobody on the lawn , if that is really what you want to know , Elfride . 
'You know nothing about such a performance ? 'Nothing whatever . 
What makes you ask ? 'Don't press me to tell it is nothing of importance . 
'Yes but it would be improper to be silent too long , I think , she said in a delicate voice , which implied that her face had grown warm . 
'I want him to know we love , Stephen . 
Why did you adopt as your own my thought of delay ? 'I will explain but I want to tell you of my secret first to tell you now . 
It is two or three hours yet to bedtime . 
Let us walk up the hill to the church . 
They turned from the porch , and walked hand in hand to find a resting place in the churchyard . 
Stephen chose a flat tomb , showing itself to be newer and whiter than those around it , and sitting down himself , gently drew her hand towards him . 
'No , not there , she said . 
'Why not here ? 'A mere fancy but never mind . 
Yes , indeed , she said , drawing closer , 'whatever may be said of you and nothing bad can be I will cling to you just the same . 
Your ways shall be my ways until I die . 
'Did you ever think what my parents might be , or what society I originally moved in ? 'No , not particularly . 
I have observed one or two little points in your manners which are rather quaint no more . 
I suppose you have moved in the ordinary society of professional people . 
'Supposing I have not that none of my family have a profession except me ? 'I don't mind . 
What you are only concerns me . 
'Where do you think I went to school I mean , to what kind of school ? 'Dr . 
Somebody's academy , she said simply . 
To a dame school originally , then to a national school . 
'Only to those ! Well , I love you just as much , Stephen , dear Stephen , she murmured tenderly , 'I do indeed . 
'No he is a mason . 
'A Freemason ? 'No a cottager and journeyman mason . 
Elfride said nothing at first . 
After a while she whispered 'That is a strange idea to me . 
But never mind what does it matter ? 'But aren't you angry with me for not telling you before ? 'No , not at all . 
Is your mother alive ? 'Yes . 
'Is she a nice lady ? 'Very the best mother in the world . 
Her people had been well to do yeomen for centuries , but she was only a dairymaid . 
'O Stephen ! came from her in whispered exclamation . 
'She continued to attend to a dairy long after my father married her , pursued Stephen , without further hesitation . 
Ah , that was a happy time enough ! 'No , never not happy . 
'I don't see how happiness could be where the drudgery of dairy work had to be done for a living the hands red and chapped , and the shoes clogged . 
Stephen , I do own that it seems odd to regard you in the light of of having been so rough in your youth , and done menial things of that kind . 
'It is not my worthiness it is Knight's , who pushed me . 
'Ah , always he always he ! 'Yes , and properly so . 
Now , Elfride , you see the reason of his teaching me by letter . 
Then I was sent away from the village , and we very seldom met but he kept up this system of tuition by correspondence with the greatest regularity . 
I will tell you all the story , but not now . 
There is nothing more to say now , beyond giving places , persons , and dates . 
His voice became timidly slow at this point . 
'No don't take trouble to say more . 
You are a dear honest fellow to say so much as you have and it is not so dreadful either . 
It has become a normal thing that millionaires commence by going up to London with their tools at their back , and half a crown in their pockets . 
That sort of origin is getting so respected , she continued cheerfully , 'that it is acquiring some of the odour of Norman ancestry . 
'Ah , if I had MADE my fortune , I shouldn't mind . 
But I am only a possible maker of it as yet . 
I dreaded to lose you , and I was cowardly on that account . 
And has this anything to do with what I saw at Lord Luxellian's ? 'What did you see ? 'I saw the shadow of yourself putting a cloak round a lady . 
I was at the side door you two were in a room with the window towards me . 
You came to me a moment later . 
'Your mother THERE ! She withdrew herself to look at him silently in her interest . 
'Elfride , said Stephen , 'I was going to tell you the remainder to morrow I have been keeping it back I must tell it now , after all . 
The remainder of my revelation refers to where my parents are . 
Where do you think they live ? You know them by sight at any rate . 
'I know them ! she said in suspended amazement . 
My father is John Smith , Lord Luxellian's master mason , who lives under the park wall by the river . 
'O Stephen ! can it be ? 'He built or assisted at the building of the house you live in , years ago . 
He put up those stone gate piers at the lodge entrance to Lord Luxellian's park . 
He was the sexton , too , and dug many of the graves around us . 
'And was your unaccountable vanishing on the first morning of your arrival , and again this afternoon , a run to see your father and mother ? . 
I understand now no wonder you seemed to know your way about the village ! 'No wonder . 
But remember , I have not lived here since I was nine years old . 
It was there I met with my friend Knight . 
There I stayed till six months ago , when I obtained a situation as improver , as it is called , in a London office . 
'To think YOU , the London visitor , the town man , should have been born here , and have known this village so many years before I did . 
How strange how very strange it seems to me ! she murmured . 
'My mother curtseyed to you and your father last Sunday , said Stephen , with a pained smile at the thought of the incongruity . 
'And your papa said to her , I am glad to see you so regular at church , JANE . 
'I remember it , but I have never spoken to her . 
We have only been here eighteen months , and the parish is so large . 
'Contrast with this , said Stephen , with a miserable laugh , 'your father's belief in my blue blood , which is still prevalent in his mind . 
Having seen your face , my darling , I had not heart to contradict him , and tell him what would have cut me off from a friendly knowledge of you . 
Papa might have consented to an engagement between us if your connection had been with villagers a hundred miles off remoteness softens family contrasts . 
But he will not like O Stephen , Stephen ! what can I do ? 'Do ? he said tentatively , yet with heaviness . 
'Give me up let me go back to London , and think no more of me . 
'No , no I cannot give you up ! This hopelessness in our affairs makes me care more for you . 
I see what did not strike me at first . 
Stephen , why do we trouble ? Why should papa object ? An architect in London is an architect in London . 
Who inquires there ? Nobody . 
'Now , Elfride , you know better , he said wooingly . 
'And had you really never any sweetheart at all ? 'None that was ever recognized by me as such . 
'But did nobody ever love you ? 'Yes a man did once very much , he said . 
'How long ago ? 'Oh , a long time . 
'How long , dearest ? 'A twelvemonth . 
'I said long , not very long . 
'And did he want to marry you ? 'I believe he did . 
But I didn't see anything in him . 
He was not good enough , even if I had loved him . 
'May I ask what he was ? 'A farmer . 
'A farmer not good enough how much better than my family ! Stephen murmured . 
'Where is he now ? he continued to Elfride . 
'Here ! what do you mean by that ? 'I mean that he is here . 
'Where here ? 'Under us . 
He is under this tomb . 
He is dead , and we are sitting on his grave . 
'Elfie , said the young man , standing up and looking at the tomb , 'how odd and sad that revelation seems ! It quite depresses me for the moment . 
'Stephen ! I didn't wish to sit here but you would do so . 
'You never encouraged him ? 'Never by look , word , or sign , she said solemnly . 
'He died of consumption , and was buried the day you first came . 
I don't like standing by HIM , even if you never loved him . 
'Worries make you unreasonable , she half pouted , following Stephen at the distance of a few steps . 
'Perhaps I ought to have told you before we sat down . 
Chapter IX 'Her father did fume' Oppressed , in spite of themselves , by a foresight of impending complications , Elfride and Stephen returned down the hill hand in hand . 
At the door they paused wistfully , like children late at school . 
Women accept their destiny more readily than men . 
Elfride had now resigned herself to the overwhelming idea of her lover's sorry antecedents Stephen had not forgotten the trifling grievance that Elfride had known earlier admiration than his own . 
'What was that young man's name ? he inquired . 
'Felix Jethway a widow's only son . 
She says I killed him . 
Stephen mused , and they entered the porch . 
'Stephen , I love only you , she tremulously whispered . 
He pressed her fingers , and the trifling shadow passed away , to admit again the mutual and more tangible trouble . 
The study appeared to be the only room lighted up . 
They entered , each with a demeanour intended to conceal the inconcealable fact that reciprocal love was their dominant chord . 
Elfride perceived a man , sitting with his back towards herself , talking to her father . 
She would have retired , but Mr. Swancourt had seen her . 
'Come in , he said 'it is only Martin Cannister , come for a copy of the register for poor Mrs. Jethway . 
Martin Cannister , the sexton , was rather a favourite with Elfride . 
He had shrewd small eyes and a great wealth of double chin , which compensated in some measure for considerable poverty of nose . 
, then sat down again and resumed his discourse . 
'Where had I got on to , sir ? 'To driving the pile , said Mr. Swancourt . 
So , as I was saying , Nat was driving the pile in this manner , as I might say . 
Here Mr. Cannister held his walking stick scrupulously vertical with his left hand , and struck a blow with great force on the knob of the stick with his right . 
'John was steadying the pile so , as I might say . 
Here he gave the stick a slight shake , and looked firmly in the various eyes around to see that before proceeding further his listeners well grasped the subject at that stage . 
'Well , when Nat had struck some half dozen blows more upon the pile , 'a stopped for a second or two . 
John , thinking he had done striking , put his hand upon the top o' the pile to gie en a pull , and see if 'a were firm in the ground . 
Mr. Cannister spread his hand over the top of the stick , completely covering it with his palm . 
'Well , so to speak , Nat hadn't maned to stop striking , and when John had put his hand upon the pile , the beetle 'Oh dreadful ! said Elfride . 
'The beetle was already coming down , you see , sir . 
Nat just caught sight of his hand , but couldn't stop the blow in time . 
Down came the beetle upon poor John Smith's hand , and squashed en to a pummy . 
'Dear me , dear me ! poor fellow ! said the vicar , with an intonation like the groans of the wounded in a pianoforte performance of the 'Battle of Prague . 
'John Smith , the master mason ? cried Stephen hurriedly . 
'Ay , no other and a better hearted man God A'mighty never made . 
'Is he so much hurt ? 'I have heard , said Mr. Swancourt , not noticing Stephen , 'that he has a son in London , a very promising young fellow . 
'Oh , how he must be hurt ! repeated Stephen . 
'A beetle couldn't hurt very little . 
Well , sir , good night t'ye and ye , sir and you , miss , I'm sure . 
Mr. Cannister had been making unnoticeable motions of withdrawal , and by the time this farewell remark came from his lips he was just outside the door of the room . 
He tramped along the hall , stayed more than a minute endeavouring to close the door properly , and then was lost to their hearing . 
Stephen had meanwhile turned and said to the vicar 'Please excuse me this evening ! I must leave . 
John Smith is my father . 
The vicar did not comprehend at first . 
'What did you say ? he inquired . 
'John Smith is my father , said Stephen deliberately . 
'Indeed , the vicar said , in a voice dry and without inflection . 
This being a word which depends entirely upon its tone for its meaning , Mr. Swancourt's enunciation was equivalent to no expression at all . 
'I have to go now , said Stephen , with an agitated bearing , and a movement as if he scarcely knew whether he ought to run off or stay longer . 
'On my return , sir , will you kindly grant me a few minutes' private conversation ? 'Certainly . 
Though antecedently it does not seem possible that there can be anything of the nature of private business between us . 
Mr. Swancourt put on his straw hat , crossed the drawing room , into which the moonlight was shining , and stepped out of the French window into the verandah . 
Stephen moved forward as if he would follow the vicar , then as if he would not , and in absolute perplexity whither to turn himself , went awkwardly to the door . 
Elfride followed lingeringly behind him . 
Before he had receded two yards from the doorstep , Unity and Ann the housemaid came home from their visit to the village . 
'Have you heard anything about John Smith ? The accident is not so bad as was reported , is it ? said Elfride intuitively . 
'Oh no the doctor says it is only a bad bruise . 
'I thought so ! cried Elfride gladly . 
'How thankful I am ! said Stephen . 
The perplexed Unity looked at him with her mouth rather than with her eyes . 
'That will do , Unity , said Elfride magisterially and the two maids passed on . 
'Elfride , do you forgive me ? said Stephen with a faint smile . 
'No man is fair in love and he took her fingers lightly in his own . 
With her head thrown sideways in the Greuze attitude , she looked a tender reproach at his doubt and pressed his hand . 
Stephen returned the pressure threefold , then hastily went off to his father's cottage by the wall of Endelstow Park . 
'Elfride , what have you to say to this ? inquired her father , coming up immediately Stephen had retired . 
With feminine quickness she grasped at any straw that would enable her to plead his cause . 
'He had told me of it , she faltered 'so that it is not a discovery in spite of him . 
He was just coming in to tell you . 
'COMING to tell ! Why hadn't he already told ? I object as much , if not more , to his underhand concealment of this , than I do to the fact itself . 
It looks very much like his making a fool of me , and of you too . 
You and he have been about together , and corresponding together , in a way I don't at all approve of in a most unseemly way . 
You should have known how improper such conduct is . 
A woman can't be too careful not to be seen alone with I don't know whom . 
'You saw us , papa , and have never said a word . 
'My fault , of course my fault . 
What the deuce could I be thinking of ! He , a villager's son and we , Swancourts , connections of the Luxellians . 
We have been coming to nothing for centuries , and now I believe we have got there . 
What shall I next invite here , I wonder ! Elfride began to cry at this very unpropitious aspect of affairs . 
We are not in a hurry , dear papa we don't want in the least to marry now not until he is richer . 
'Certainly not ! he replied . 
Next to love making comes love winning , and you knew it would come to that , papa . 
The vicar parried this common sense thrust . 
'You inquired nothing about him ? 'I went by Hewby's introduction . 
He should have told me . 
So should the young man himself of course he should . 
I consider it a most dishonourable thing to come into a man's house like a treacherous I don't know what . 
'But he was afraid to tell you , and so should I have been . 
He loved me too well to like to run the risk . 
And as to speaking of his friends on his first visit , I don't see why he should have done so at all . 
He came here on business it was no affair of ours who his parents were . 
And then he knew that if he told you he would never be asked here , and would perhaps never see me again . 
And he wanted to see me . 
Who can blame him for trying , by any means , to stay near me the girl he loves ? All is fair in love . 
I have heard you say so yourself , papa and you yourself would have done just as he has so would any man . 
But Mr. Swancourt then remembered that he was a Christian . 
'He will , because he's a gentleman . 
'Ay anybody can be what you call graceful , if he lives a little time in a city , and keeps his eyes open . 
And he might have picked up his gentlemanliness by going to the galleries of theatres , and watching stage drawing room manners . 
He reminds me of one of the worst stories I ever heard in my life . 
Though John Smith has saved lots of money , and is better off than we are , they say , or he couldn't have put his son to such an expensive profession . 
And it is clever and honourable of Stephen , to be the best of his family . 
Let a beast be lord of beasts , and his crib shall stand at the king's mess . 
'You insult me , papa ! she burst out . 
We must look at what he is , not what an improbable degree of success in his profession may make him . 
It is the drawback , not the compensating fact , that is talked of always . 
There , say no more . 
You may argue all night , and prove what you will I'll stick to my words . 
Elfride looked silently and hopelessly out of the window with large heavy eyes and wet cheeks . 
'I call it great temerity and long to call it audacity in Hewby , resumed her father . 
'I never heard such a thing giving such a hobbledehoy native of this place such an introduction to me as he did . 
Naturally you were deceived as well as I was . 
I don't blame you at all , so far . 
He went and searched for Mr. Hewby's original letter . 
'Here's what he said to me Dear Sir , Agreeably to your request of the th instant , I have arranged to survey and make drawings , et cetera . 
My assistant , Mr. Stephen Smith assistant , you see he called him , and naturally I understood him to mean a sort of partner . 
Why didn't he say clerk ? 'They never call them clerks in that profession , because they do not write . 
Stephen Mr. Smith told me so . 
So that Mr. Hewby simply used the accepted word . 
'Let me speak , please , Elfride ! My assistant , Mr. Stephen Smith , will leave London by the early train to morrow morning . 
MANY THANKS FOR YOUR PROPOSAL TO ACCOMMODATE HIM . 
YOU MAY PUT EVERY CONFIDENCE IN HIM , and may rely upon his discernment in the matter of church architecture . 
Well , I repeat that Hewby ought to be ashamed of himself for making so much of a poor lad of that sort . 
'Professional men in London , Elfride argued , 'don't know anything about their clerks' fathers and mothers . 
They have assistants who come to their offices and shops for years , and hardly even know where they live . 
What they can do what profits they can bring the firm that's all London men care about . 
And that is helped in him by his faculty of being uniformly pleasant . 
'Uniform pleasantness is rather a defect than a faculty . 
It shows that a man hasn't sense enough to know whom to despise . 
'It shows that he acts by faith and not by sight , as those you claim succession from directed . 
'That's some more of what he's been telling you , I suppose ! Yes , I was inclined to suspect him , because he didn't care about sauces of any kind . 
I always did doubt a man's being a gentleman if his palate had no acquired tastes . 
An unedified palate is the irrepressible cloven foot of the upstart . 
Well , Elfride , you had better go to your room you'll get over this bit of tomfoolery in time . 
'No , no , no , papa , she moaned . 
For of all the miseries attaching to miserable love , the worst is the misery of thinking that the passion which is the cause of them all may cease . 
'Elfride , said her father with rough friendliness , 'I have an excellent scheme on hand , which I cannot tell you of now . 
A scheme to benefit you and me . 
It has been thrust upon me for some little time yes , thrust upon me but I didn't dream of its value till this afternoon , when the revelation came . 
I should be most unwise to refuse to entertain it . 
'I don't like that word , she returned wearily . 
'You have lost so much already by schemes . 
Is it those wretched mines again ? 'No not a mining scheme . 
Remember , I wish , not to be angry , but friendly , to the young man for your sake I'll regard him as a friend in a certain sense . 
But this is enough in a few days you will be quite my way of thinking . 
There , now , go to your bedroom . 
Unity shall bring you up some supper . 
I wish you not to be here when he comes back . 
Chapter X 'Beneath the shelter of an aged tree . 
Stephen retraced his steps towards the cottage he had visited only two or three hours previously . 
When he crossed the plank bridge and entered the garden gate , he saw an illuminated figure coming from the enclosed plot towards the house on the other side . 
He saluted his son with customary force . 
'Hallo , Stephen ! We should ha' been in bed in another ten minutes . 
Together they entered the house . 
John Smith brown as autumn as to skin , white as winter as to clothes was a satisfactory specimen of the village artificer in stone . 
There was not the speciality in his labour which distinguishes the handicraftsmen of towns . 
Moreover , he had practised gardening in his own plot for so many years that , on an emergency , he might have made a living by that calling . 
Probably our countryman was not such an accomplished artificer in a particular direction as his town brethren in the trades . 
Appearing now , indoors , by the light of the candle , his stalwart healthiness was a sight to see . 
Mrs. Smith , on hearing them enter , advanced from the pantry . 
Mrs. Smith was a matron whose countenance addressed itself to the mind rather than to the eye , though not exclusively . 
The details of the accident were then rehearsed by Stephen's father , in the dramatic manner also common to Martin Cannister , other individuals of the neighbourhood , and the rural world generally . 
Mrs. Smith threw in her sentiments between the acts , as Coryphaeus of the tragedy , to make the description complete . 
The story at last came to an end , as the longest will , and Stephen directed the conversation into another channel . 
'Well , mother , they know everything about me now , he said quietly . 
'Well done ! replied his father 'now my mind's at peace . 
'I blame myself I never shall forgive myself for not telling them before , continued the young man . 
Mrs. Smith at this point abstracted her mind from the former subject . 
'I don't see what you have to grieve about , Stephen , she said . 
'People who accidentally get friends don't , as a first stroke , tell the history of their families . 
'Ye've done no wrong , certainly , said his father . 
'No but I should have spoken sooner . 
There's more in this visit of mine than you think a good deal more . 
'Not more than I think , Mrs. Smith replied , looking contemplatively at him . 
Stephen blushed and his father looked from one to the other in a state of utter incomprehension . 
'She's a pretty piece enough , Mrs. Smith continued , 'and very lady like and clever too . 
No such good fortune as that , I'm afraid she's too far above me . 
Her family doesn't want such country lads as I in it . 
'Then if they don't want you , I'd see them dead corpses before I'd want them , and go to better families who do want you . 
'Ah , yes but I could never put up with the distaste of being welcomed among such people as you mean , whilst I could get indifference among such people as hers . 
'What crazy twist o' thinking will enter your head next ? said his mother . 
'And come to that , she's not a bit too high for you , or you too low for her . 
See how careful I be to keep myself up . 
And I talk to several toppermost carriage people that come to my lord's without saying ma'am or sir to 'em , and they take it as quiet as lambs . 
'You curtseyed to the vicar , mother and I wish you hadn't . 
'But it was before he called me by my Christian name , or he would have got very little curtseying from me ! said Mrs. Smith , bridling and sparkling with vexation . 
That 'a did , didn't he , John ? 'That's about the size o't , replied her husband . 
'Every woman now a days , resumed Mrs. Smith , 'if she marry at all , must expect a father in law of a rank lower than her father . 
The men have gone up so , and the women have stood still . 
Every man you meet is more the dand than his father and you are just level wi' her . 
'That's what she thinks herself . 
'It only shows her sense . 
I knew she was after 'ee , Stephen I knew it . 
'After me ! Good Lord , what next ! 'And I really must say again that you ought not to be in such a hurry , and wait for a few years . 
You might go higher than a bankrupt pa'son's girl then . 
'The fact is , mother , said Stephen impatiently , 'you don't know anything about it . 
I shall never go higher , because I don't want to , nor should I if I lived to be a hundred . 
'She couldn't have been very backward anyhow , considering the short time you have known her , said his mother . 
'Well I think that five years hence you'll be plenty young enough to think of such things . 
And really she can very well afford to wait , and will too , take my word . 
Living down in an out step place like this , I am sure she ought to be very thankful that you took notice of her . 
She'd most likely have died an old maid if you hadn't turned up . 
'All nonsense , said Stephen , but not aloud . 
I see her sometimes decked out like a horse going to fair , and I admire her for't . 
'Now , now , mother ! said Stephen with smiling deprecation . 
'But I will ! said his mother with asperity . 
'I don't read the papers for nothing , and I know men all move up a stage by marriage . 
Men of her class , that is , parsons , marry squires' daughters squires marry lords' daughters lords marry dukes' daughters dukes marry queens' daughters . 
All stages of gentlemen mate a stage higher and the lowest stage of gentlewomen are left single , or marry out of their class . 
'But you said just now , dear mother retorted Stephen , unable to resist the temptation of showing his mother her inconsistency . 
'Well , what did I say ? And Mrs. Smith prepared her lips for a new campaign . 
Stephen , regretting that he had begun , since a volcano might be the consequence , was obliged to go on . 
'You said I wasn't out of her class just before . 
'Yes , there , there ! That's you that's my own flesh and blood . 
I'll warrant that you'll pick holes in everything your mother says , if you can , Stephen . 
You are just like your father for that take anybody's part but mine . 
Whilst I am speaking and talking and trying and slaving away for your good , you are waiting to catch me out in that way . 
So you are in her class , but 'tis what HER people would CALL marrying out of her class . 
'And possibly , said Stephen , 'I may leave here altogether to morrow I don't know . 
So that if I shouldn't call again before returning to London , don't be alarmed , will you ? 'But didn't you come for a fortnight ? said his mother . 
'And haven't you a month's holiday altogether ? They are going to turn you out , then ? 'Not at all . 
I may stay longer I may go . 
If I go , you had better say nothing about my having been here , for her sake . 
At what time of the morning does the carrier pass Endelstow lane ? 'Seven o'clock . 
And then he left them . 
Should he be forbidden to think of any such thing , he resolved to go at once . 
And the latter , even to young hopefulness , seemed the more probable alternative . 
It was a time when mere seeing is meditation , and meditation peace . 
Stephen was hardly philosopher enough to avail himself of Nature's offer . 
He had not many original ideas , and yet there was scarcely an idea to which , under proper training , he could not have added a respectable co ordinate . 
He saw nothing outside himself to night and what he saw within was a weariness to his flesh . 
The clock struck eleven when he entered the house . 
Elfride had been waiting with scarcely a movement since he departed . 
Before he had spoken to her she caught sight of him passing into the study with her father . 
She saw that he had by some means obtained the private interview he desired . 
Instead of lying down she sat again in the darkness without closing the door , and listened with a beating heart to every sound from downstairs . 
The servants had gone to bed . 
She ultimately heard the two men come from the study and cross to the dining room , where supper had been lingering for more than an hour . 
It seemed to prefigure failure . 
Shortly afterwards Stephen came upstairs to his bedroom , and was almost immediately followed by her father , who also retired for the night . 
Not inclined to get a light , she partly undressed and sat on the bed , where she remained in pained thought for some time , possibly an hour . 
Then rising to close her door previously to fully unrobing , she saw a streak of light shining across the landing . 
Her father's door was shut , and he could be heard snoring regularly . 
The light came from Stephen's room , and the slight sounds also coming thence emphatically denoted what he was doing . 
In the perfect silence she could hear the closing of a lid and the clicking of a lock , he was fastening his hat box . 
Then the buckling of straps and the click of another key , he was securing his portmanteau . 
With trebled foreboding she opened her door softly , and went towards his . 
One sensation pervaded her to distraction . 
Stephen , her handsome youth and darling , was going away , and she might never see him again except in secret and in sadness perhaps never more . 
At any rate , she could no longer wait till the morning to hear the result of the interview , as she had intended . 
She flung her dressing gown round her , tapped lightly at his door , and whispered 'Stephen ! He came instantly , opened the door , and stepped out . 
'Tell me are we to hope ? He replied in a disturbed whisper , and a tear approached its outlet , though none fell . 
'I am not to think of such a preposterous thing that's what he said . 
And I am going to morrow . 
I should have called you up to bid you good bye . 
'But he didn't say you were to go O Stephen , he didn't say that ? 'No not in words . 
'Oh , don't , don't go ! Do come and let us talk . 
Let us come down to the drawing room for a few minutes he will hear us here . 
She preceded him down the staircase with the taper light in her hand , looking unnaturally tall and thin in the long dove coloured dressing gown she wore . 
She did not stop to think of the propriety or otherwise of this midnight interview under such circumstances . 
Elfride softly opened the drawing room door and they both went in . 
When she had placed the candle on the table , he enclosed her with his arms , dried her eyes with his handkerchief , and kissed their lids . 
'Stephen , it is over happy love is over and there is no more sunshine now ! 'I will make a fortune , and come to you , and have you . 
Yes , I will ! 'Papa will never hear of it never never ! You don't know him . 
He is either biassed in favour of a thing , or prejudiced against it . 
Argument is powerless against either feeling . 
'No I won't think of him so , said Stephen . 
'If I appear before him some time hence as a man of established name , he will accept me I know he will . 
He is not a wicked man . 
'No , he is not wicked . 
But you say some time hence , as if it were no time . 
The remark awoke in Stephen the converse fear . 
'You , too , may be persuaded to give me up , when time has made me fainter in your memory . 
For , remember , your love for me must be nourished in secret there will be no long visits from me to support you . 
Circumstances will always tend to obliterate me . 
Her tears came visibly as she drew a mental picture of his faithlessness . 
'And it won't be your fault , she continued , looking into the candle with doleful eyes . 
'No ! You will think that our family don't want you , and get to include me with them . 
And there will be a vacancy in your heart , and some others will be let in . 
'I could not , I would not . 
Elfie , do not be so full of forebodings . 
'Oh yes , they will , she replied . 
And , worse than that general feeling , there of course remained the sadness which arose from the special features of his own case . 
However remote a desired issue may be , the mere fact of having entered the groove which leads to it , cheers to some extent with a sense of accomplishment . 
But , with a possibility of a shorter probation , they had not as yet any prospect of the beginning the zero of hope had yet to be reached . 
Mr. Swancourt would have to revoke his formidable words before the waiting for marriage could even set in . 
'I wish we could marry now , murmured Stephen , as an impossible fancy . 
'So do I , said she also , as if regarding an idle dream . 
'Exactly , he murmured in a voice and manner the counterpart of hers . 
'To marry and part secretly , and live on as we are living now merely to put it out of anybody's power to force you away from me , dearest . 
'Or you away from me , Stephen . 
Now up to this point the idea of an immediate secret marriage had been held by both as an untenable hypothesis , wherewith simply to beguile a miserable moment . 
During a pause which followed Stephen's last remark , a fascinating perception , then an alluring conviction , flashed along the brain of both . 
The youth spoke first , and his voice trembled with the magnitude of the conception he was cherishing . 
All the elements of such a development were there , the chief one being hopelessness a necessary ingredient always to perfect the mixture of feelings united under the name of loving to distraction . 
'We would tell papa soon , would we not ? she inquired timidly . 
He would then be convinced that hearts cannot be played with love encouraged be ready to grow , love discouraged be ready to die , at a moment's notice . 
It is not as if we had from the beginning acted in opposition to your papa's wishes . 
Only think , Elfie , how pleasant he was towards me but six hours ago ! He liked me , praised me , never objected to my being alone with you . 
'I believe he MUST like you now , she cried . 
'And if he found that you irremediably belonged to me , he would own it and help you . 
All I have been expecting miserably killed within me like this ! Stephen flushed hot with impulse . 
'I will not be a doubt to you thought of you shall not be a misery to me ! he said . 
'We will be wife and husband before we part for long ! She hid her face on his shoulder . 
'Anything to make SURE ! she whispered . 
'I did not like to propose it immediately , continued Stephen . 
Then they whispered long and earnestly together Stephen hesitatingly proposing this and that plan , Elfride modifying them , with quick breathings , and hectic flush , and unnaturally bright eyes . 
It was two o'clock before an arrangement was finally concluded . 
She then told him to leave her , giving him his light to go up to his own room . 
They parted with an agreement not to meet again in the morning . 
After his door had been some time closed he heard her softly gliding into her chamber . 
Chapter XI 'Journeys end in lovers meeting . 
Stephen lay watching the Great Bear Elfride was regarding a monotonous parallelogram of window blind . 
Throughout the night he had intended to see Mr. Swancourt again , but the sharp rebuff of the previous evening rendered such an interview particularly distasteful . 
Perhaps there was another and less honest reason . 
He decided to put it off . 
Whatever of moral timidity or obliquity may have lain in such a decision , no perception of it was strong enough to detain him . 
He expected to find the downstairs rooms wearing the gray and cheerless aspect that early morning gives to everything out of the sun . 
He found in the dining room a breakfast laid , of which somebody had just partaken . 
Stephen gave the maid servant his note of adieu . 
She stated that Mr. Swancourt had risen early that morning , and made an early breakfast . 
He was not going away that she knew of . 
Stephen took a cup of coffee , left the house of his love , and turned into the lane . 
It was so early that the shaded places still smelt like night time , and the sunny spots had hardly felt the sun . 
The horizontal rays made every shallow dip in the ground to show as a well marked hollow . 
Even the channel of the path was enough to throw shade , and the very stones of the road cast tapering dashes of darkness westward , as long as Jael's tent nail . 
At a spot not more than a hundred yards from the vicar's residence the lane leading thence crossed the high road . 
Stephen reached the point of intersection , stood still and listened . 
Nothing could be heard save the lengthy , murmuring line of the sea upon the adjacent shore . 
He looked at his watch , and then mounted a gate upon which he seated himself , to await the arrival of the carrier . 
Whilst he sat he heard wheels coming in two directions . 
The vehicle approaching on his right he soon recognized as the carrier's . 
There were the accompanying sounds of the owner's voice and the smack of his whip , distinct in the still morning air , by which he encouraged his horses up the hill . 
The other set of wheels sounded from the lane Stephen had just traversed . 
On closer observation , he perceived that they were moving from the precincts of the ancient manor house adjoining the vicarage grounds . 
A carriage then left the entrance gates of the house , and wheeling round came fully in sight . 
It was a plain travelling carriage , with a small quantity of luggage , apparently a lady's . 
Inside the carriage Stephen could just discern an elderly lady with a younger woman , who seemed to be her maid . 
The road they had taken led to Stratleigh , a small watering place sixteen miles north . 
He heard the manor house gates swing again , and looking up saw another person leaving them , and walking off in the direction of the parsonage . 
'Ah , how much I wish I were moving that way ! felt he parenthetically . 
The gentleman was tall , and resembled Mr. Swancourt in outline and attire . 
He opened the vicarage gate and went in . 
Mr. Swancourt , then , it certainly was . 
Instead of remaining in bed that morning Mr. Swancourt must have taken it into his head to see his new neighbour off on a journey . 
He must have been greatly interested in that neighbour to do such an unusual thing . 
The carrier's conveyance had pulled up , and Stephen now handed in his portmanteau and mounted the shafts . 
'Who is that lady in the carriage ? he inquired indifferently of Lickpan the carrier . 
'That , sir , is Mrs. Troyton , a widder wi' a mint o' money . 
She's the owner of all that part of Endelstow that is not Lord Luxellian's . 
Only been here a short time she came into it by law . 
The owner formerly was a terrible mysterious party never lived here hardly ever was seen here except in the month of September , as I might say . 
The horses were started again , and noise rendered further discourse a matter of too great exertion . 
Stephen crept inside under the tilt , and was soon lost in reverie . 
Three hours and a half of straining up hills and jogging down brought them to St . 
The carrier's van was so timed as to meet a starting up train , which Stephen entered . 
There being some time upon his hands he left his luggage at the cloak room , and went on foot along Bedford Street to the nearest church . 
He turned away and ascended the Hoe , viewed the magnificent stretch of sea and massive promontories of land , but without particularly discerning one feature of the varied perspective . 
He still saw that inner prospect the event he hoped for in yonder church . 
Soon Stephen went down from the Hoe , and returned to the railway station . 
He took his ticket , and entered the London train . 
That day was an irksome time at Endelstow vicarage . 
Neither father nor daughter alluded to the departure of Stephen . 
Mr. Swancourt's manner towards her partook of the compunctious kindness that arises from a misgiving as to the justice of some previous act . 
Launce's and go on to Plymouth . 
Now , she had only once before gone alone to Plymouth , and that was in consequence of some unavoidable difficulty . 
Launce's , put up the horse , and go on the remainder of the distance by train , returning in the same manner in the evening . 
It was then resolved that , though she had successfully accomplished this journey once , it was not to be repeated without some attendance . 
But Elfride must not be confounded with ordinary young feminine equestrians . 
The circumstances of her lonely and narrow life made it imperative that in trotting about the neighbourhood she must trot alone or else not at all . 
Usage soon rendered this perfectly natural to herself . 
But what with his not being able to afford her a regular attendant , and his inveterate habit of letting anything be to save himself trouble , the circumstance grew customary . 
And so there arose a chronic notion in the villagers' minds that all ladies rode without an attendant , like Miss Swancourt , except a few who were sometimes visiting at Lord Luxellian's . 
'I don't like your going to Plymouth alone , particularly going to St . 
Why not drive , and take the man ? 'It is not nice to be so overlooked . 
Worm's company would not seriously have interfered with her plans , but it was her humour to go without him . 
'When do you want to go ? said her father . 
She only answered , 'Soon . 
'I will consider , he said . 
Only a few days elapsed before she asked again . 
A letter had reached her from Stephen . 
It had been timed to come on that day by special arrangement between them . 
In it he named the earliest morning on which he could meet her at Plymouth . 
Her father had been on a journey to Stratleigh , and returned in unusual buoyancy of spirit . 
'Next Thursday week I am going from home in a different direction , said her father . 
'In fact , I shall leave home the night before . 
You might choose the same day , for they wish to take up the carpets , or some such thing , I think . 
As I said , I don't like you to be seen in a town on horseback alone but go if you will . 
Fifteen days that fragment of duration which has acquired such an interesting individuality from its connection with the English marriage law . 
She involuntarily looked at her father so strangely , that on becoming conscious of the look she paled with embarrassment . 
Her father , too , looked confused . 
Her father seldom took long journeys seldom slept from home except perhaps on the night following a remote Visitation . 
Well , she would not inquire too curiously into the reason of the opportunity , nor did he , as would have been natural , proceed to explain it of his own accord . 
In matters of fact there had hitherto been no reserve between them , though they were not usually confidential in its full sense . 
But the divergence of their emotions on Stephen's account had produced an estrangement which just at present went even to the extent of reticence on the most ordinary household topics . 
Elfride was almost unconsciously relieved , persuading herself that her father's reserve on his business justified her in secrecy as regarded her own a secrecy which was necessarily a foregone decision with her . 
So anxious is a young conscience to discover a palliative , that the ex post facto nature of a reason is of no account in excluding it . 
The intervening fortnight was spent by her mostly in walking by herself among the shrubs and trees , indulging sometimes in sanguine anticipations more , far more frequently , in misgivings . 
All her flowers seemed dull of hue her pets seemed to look wistfully into her eyes , as if they no longer stood in the same friendly relation to her as formerly . 
She wore melancholy jewellery , gazed at sunsets , and talked to old men and women . 
It was the first time that she had had an inner and private world apart from the visible one about her . 
She wished that her father , instead of neglecting her even more than usual , would make some advance just one word she would then tell all , and risk Stephen's displeasure . 
On the Wednesday she was to receive another letter . 
Five minutes before the postman's expected arrival she slipped out , and down the lane to meet him . 
She met him immediately upon turning a sharp angle , which hid her from view in the direction of the vicarage . 
The man smilingly handed one missive , and was going on to hand another , a circular from some tradesman . 
'No , she said 'take that on to the house . 
'Why , miss , you are doing what your father has done for the last fortnight . 
And on the postman went . 
No sooner had he turned the corner behind her back than she heard her father meet and address the man . 
She had saved her letter by two minutes . 
Her father audibly went through precisely the same performance as she had just been guilty of herself . 
This stealthy conduct of his was , to say the least , peculiar . 
Probably the result would , after all , have been nil , had not the following few remarks been made one day at breakfast . 
Her father was in his old hearty spirits . 
He smiled to himself at stories too bad to tell , and called Elfride a little scamp for surreptitiously preserving some blind kittens that ought to have been drowned . 
The accumulating scarlet told that was her meaning , as much as the affirmative reply . 
'I should have put up with it , no doubt , Mr. Swancourt observed . 
The present seemed to be cast so precisely in the mould of previous ones that , not being given to syntheses of circumstances , he answered it with customary complacency . 
'If he were allied to us irretrievably , of course I , or any sensible man , should accept conditions that could not be altered certainly not be hopelessly melancholy about it . 
I don't believe anything in the world would make me hopelessly melancholy . 
And don't let anything make you so , either . 
'I won't , papa , she cried , with a serene brightness that pleased him . 
Certainly Mr. Swancourt must have been far from thinking that the brightness came from an exhilarating intention to hold back no longer from the mad action she had planned . 
In the evening he drove away towards Stratleigh , quite alone . 
It was an unusual course for him . 
At the door Elfride had been again almost impelled by her feelings to pour out all . 
'Why are you going to Stratleigh , papa ? she said , and looked at him longingly . 
'I will tell you to morrow when I come back , he said cheerily 'not before then , Elfride . 
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know , and so far will I trust thee , gentle Elfride . 
She was repressed and hurt . 
'I will tell you my errand to Plymouth , too , when I come back , she murmured . 
His jocularity made her intention seem the lighter , as his indifference made her more resolved to do as she liked . 
It was a familiar September sunset , dark blue fragments of cloud upon an orange yellow sky . 
These sunsets used to tempt her to walk towards them , as any beautiful thing tempts a near approach . 
She went through the field to the privet hedge , clambered into the middle of it , and reclined upon the thick boughs . 
After looking westward for a considerable time , she blamed herself for not looking eastward to where Stephen was , and turned round . 
Ultimately her eyes fell upon the ground . 
A peculiarity was observable beneath her . 
A green field spread itself on each side of the hedge , one belonging to the glebe , the other being a part of the land attached to the manor house adjoining . 
On the vicarage side she saw a little footpath , the distinctive and altogether exceptional feature of which consisted in its being only about ten yards long it terminated abruptly at each end . 
A footpath , suddenly beginning and suddenly ending , coming from nowhere and leading nowhere , she had never seen before . 
Yes , she had , on second thoughts . 
She had seen exactly such a path trodden in the front of barracks by the sentry . 
And this recollection explained the origin of the path here . 
Her father had trodden it by pacing up and down , as she had once seen him doing . 
Sitting on the hedge as she sat now , her eyes commanded a view of both sides of it . 
And a few minutes later , Elfride looked over to the manor side . 
Here was another sentry path . 
It was like the first in length , and it began and ended exactly opposite the beginning and ending of its neighbour , but it was thinner , and less distinct . 
Two reasons existed for the difference . 
Probably a gentleman from Scotland yard , had he been passing at the time , might have considered the latter alternative as the more probable . 
Elfride thought otherwise , so far as she thought at all . 
Elfride was at length compelled to reason practically upon her undertaking . 
All her definite perceptions thereon , when the emotion accompanying them was abstracted , amounted to no more than these 'Say an hour and three quarters to ride to St . 
'Say half an hour at the Falcon to change my dress . 
'Say two hours waiting for some train and getting to Plymouth . 
'Say an hour to spare before twelve o'clock . 
'Total time from leaving Endelstow till twelve o'clock , five hours . 
'Therefore I shall have to start at seven . 
No surprise or sense of unwontedness entered the minds of the servants at her early ride . 
Every journey there is more or less an adventure adventurous hours are necessarily chosen for the most commonplace outing . 
Miss Elfride had to leave early that was all . 
Elfride never went out on horseback but she brought home something something found , or something bought . 
If she trotted to town or village , her burden was books . 
If to hills , woods , or the seashore , it was wonderful mosses , abnormal twigs , a handkerchief of wet shells or seaweed . 
On one side of her , three volumes of fiction lay kissing the mud on the other numerous skeins of polychromatic wools lay absorbing it . 
The blue eyes turned to sapphires , and the cheeks crimsoned with vexation . 
Here she now spread out and fastened a plain dark walking dress and a few other trifles of apparel . 
Worm opened the gate for her , and she vanished away . 
One of the brightest mornings of late summer shone upon her . 
Sitting at ease upon Pansy , in her orthodox riding habit and nondescript hat , she looked what she felt . 
But the mercury of those days had a trick of falling unexpectedly . 
First , only for one minute in ten had she a sense of depression . 
Then a large cloud , that had been hanging in the north like a black fleece , came and placed itself between her and the sun . 
It helped on what was already inevitable , and she sank into a uniformity of sadness . 
She turned in the saddle and looked back . 
They were now on an open table land , whose altitude still gave her a view of the sea by Endelstow . 
She looked longingly at that spot . 
During this little revulsion of feeling Pansy had been still advancing , and Elfride felt it would be absurd to turn her little mare's head the other way . 
This miserable strife of thought now began to rage in all its wildness . 
Overwrought and trembling , she dropped the rein upon Pansy's shoulders , and vowed she would be led whither the horse would take her . 
Pansy slackened her pace to a walk , and walked on with her agitated burden for three or four minutes . 
At the expiration of this time they had come to a little by way on the right , leading down a slope to a pool of water . 
The pony stopped , looked towards the pool , and then advanced and stooped to drink . 
Elfride looked at her watch and discovered that if she were going to reach St . 
Launce's early enough to change her dress at the Falcon , and get a chance of some early train to Plymouth there were only two available it was necessary to proceed at once . 
Pansy did turn at last , and went up the slope again to the high road . 
The pony came upon it , and stood cross wise , looking up and down . 
Elfride's heart throbbed erratically , and she thought , 'Horses , if left to themselves , make for where they are best fed . 
Pansy turned and walked on towards St . 
Launce's Pansy at home , during summer , had little but grass to live on . 
After a run to St . 
Launce's she always had a feed of corn to support her on the return journey . 
Therefore , being now more than half way , she preferred St . 
But Elfride did not remember this now . 
All she cared to recognize was a dreamy fancy that to day's rash action was not her own . 
She was disabled by her moods , and it seemed indispensable to adhere to the programme . 
Pansy went , like the steed of Adonis , as if she told the steps . 
Presently the quaint gables and jumbled roofs of St . 
Launce's were spread beneath her , and going down the hill she entered the courtyard of the Falcon . 
Mrs. Buckle , the landlady , came to the door to meet her . 
The Swancourts were well known here . 
The transition from equestrian to the ordinary guise of railway travellers had been more than once performed by father and daughter in this establishment . 
In less than a quarter of an hour Elfride emerged from the door in her walking dress , and went to the railway . 
She had not told Mrs. Buckle anything as to her intentions , and was supposed to have gone out shopping . 
An hour and forty minutes later , and she was in Stephen's arms at the Plymouth station . 
Not upon the platform in the secret retreat of a deserted waiting room . 
He was pale and despondent . 
What is the matter ? she asked . 
'We cannot be married here to day , my Elfie ! I ought to have known it and stayed here . 
In my ignorance I did not . 
I have the licence , but it can only be used in my parish in London . 
I only came down last night , as you know . 
'What shall we do ? she said blankly . 
'There's only one thing we can do , darling . 
'What's that ? 'Go on to London by a train just starting , and be married there to morrow . 
up train take their seats ! said a guard's voice on the platform . 
'Will you go , Elfride ? 'I will . 
In three minutes the train had moved off , bearing away with it Stephen and Elfride . 
Chapter XII 'Adieu ! she cries , and waved her lily hand . 
The water drops beat like duck shot against the window of the railway carriage containing Stephen and Elfride . 
The journey from Plymouth to Paddington , by even the most headlong express , allows quite enough leisure for passion of any sort to cool . 
Elfride's excitement had passed off , and she sat in a kind of stupor during the latter half of the journey . 
She was aroused by the clanging of the maze of rails over which they traced their way at the entrance to the station . 
Is this London ? she said . 
'Yes , darling , said Stephen in a tone of assurance he was far from feeling . 
To him , no less than to her , the reality so greatly differed from the prefiguring . 
She writhed uneasily , as when a thought is swelling in the mind which must cause much pain at its deliverance in words . 
Elfride had known no more about the stings of evil report than the native wild fowl knew of the effects of Crusoe's first shot . 
Now she saw a little further , and a little further still . 
Stephen relinquished the soft hand he had held all the day , and proceeded to assist her on to the platform . 
This act of alighting upon strange ground seemed all that was wanted to complete a resolution within her . 
She looked at her betrothed with despairing eyes . 
'O Stephen , she exclaimed , 'I am so miserable ! I must go home again I must I must ! Forgive my wretched vacillation . 
I don't like it here nor myself nor you ! Stephen looked bewildered , and did not speak . 
'Will you allow me to go home ? she implored . 
'I won't trouble you to go with me . 
'But we can't return now , he said in a deprecatory tone . 
'I must ! I will ! 'How ? When do you want to go ? 'Now . 
Can we go at once ? The lad looked hopelessly along the platform . 
'If you must go , and think it wrong to remain , dearest , said he sadly , 'you shall . 
You shall do whatever you like , my Elfride . 
But would you in reality rather go now than stay till to morrow , and go as my wife ? 'Yes , yes much anything to go now . 
I must I must ! she cried . 
'We ought to have done one of two things , he answered gloomily . 
'Never to have started , or not to have returned without being married . 
'They will not and I must go . 
'O Elfride ! I am to blame for bringing you away . 
'By a month and what's that ? But never mind that now . 
'Is there a train for Plymouth to night ? he inquired of a guard . 
The guard passed on and did not speak . 
'Is there a train for Plymouth to night ? said Elfride to another . 
You have come to the wrong platform it is the other side . 
Change at Bristol into the night mail . 
Down that staircase , and under the line . 
They ran down the staircase Elfride first to the booking office , and into a carriage with an official standing beside the door . 
'Show your tickets , please . 
'And have you come too , Stephen ? Why did you ? 'I shall not leave you till I see you safe at St . 
Do not think worse of me than I am , Elfride . 
And then they rattled along through the night , back again by the way they had come . 
The weather cleared , and the stars shone in upon them . 
Their two or three fellow passengers sat for most of the time with closed eyes . 
Stephen sometimes slept Elfride alone was wakeful and palpitating hour after hour . 
The day began to break , and revealed that they were by the sea . 
Red rocks overhung them , and , receding into distance , grew livid in the blue grey atmosphere . 
The sun rose , and sent penetrating shafts of light in upon their weary faces . 
Another hour , and the world began to be busy . 
They waited yet a little , and the train slackened its speed in view of the platform at St . 
She shivered , and mused sadly . 
'I did not see all the consequences , she said . 
'Appearances are wofully against me . 
If anybody finds me out , I am , I suppose , disgraced . 
'Then appearances will speak falsely and how can that matter , even if they do ? I shall be your husband sooner or later , for certain , and so prove your purity . 
'Stephen , once in London I ought to have married you , she said firmly . 
'It was my only safe defence . 
I see more things now than I did yesterday . 
My only remaining chance is not to be discovered and that we must fight for most desperately . 
Elfride pulled a thick veil over her face . 
A woman with red and scaly eyelids and glistening eyes was sitting on a bench just inside the office door . 
She fixed her eyes upon Elfride with an expression whose force it was impossible to doubt , but the meaning of which was not clear then upon the carriage they had left . 
She seemed to read a sinister story in the scene . 
Elfride shrank back , and turned the other way . 
'Who is that woman ? said Stephen . 
'She looked hard at you . 
Jethway a widow , and mother of that young man whose tomb we sat on the other night . 
Stephen , she is my enemy . 
Would that God had had mercy enough upon me to have hidden this from HER ! 'Do not talk so hopelessly , he remonstrated . 
'I don't think she recognized us . 
'I pray that she did not . 
He put on a more vigorous mood . 
'Now , we will go and get some breakfast . 
'No , no ! she begged . 
I MUST get back to Endelstow . 
Elfride was as if she had grown years older than Stephen now . 
'But you have had nothing since last night but that cup of tea at Bristol . 
'I can't eat , Stephen . 
'Wine and biscuit ? 'No . 
'Nor tea , nor coffee ? 'No . 
'A glass of water ? 'No . 
Brandy , that's what I want . 
That woman's eyes have eaten my heart away ! 'You are wild and you grieve me , darling . 
Must it be brandy ? 'Yes , if you please . 
'How much ? 'I don't know . 
I have never drunk more than a teaspoonful at once . 
All I know is that I want it . 
Don't get it at the Falcon . 
He left her in the fields , and went to the nearest inn in that direction . 
Presently he returned with a small flask nearly full , and some slices of bread and butter , thin as wafers , in a paper bag . 
Elfride took a sip or two . 
'It goes into my eyes , she said wearily . 
'I can't take any more . 
Yes , I will I will close my eyes . 
Ah , it goes to them by an inside route . 
I don't want it throw it away . 
However , she could eat , and did eat . 
Her chief attention was concentrated upon how to get the horse from the Falcon stables without suspicion . 
Stephen was not allowed to accompany her into the town . 
She acted now upon conclusions reached without any aid from him his power over her seemed to have departed . 
'You had better not be seen with me , even here where I am so little known . 
We have begun stealthily as thieves , and we must end stealthily as thieves , at all hazards . 
Until papa has been told by me myself , a discovery would be terrible . 
Walking and gloomily talking thus they waited till nearly nine o'clock , at which time Elfride thought she might call at the Falcon without creating much surprise . 
Beside this road Stephen sat , and awaited her return from the Falcon . 
The certainty of possession had not come , and there was nothing to mitigate the youth's gloom , that increased with the thought of the parting now so near . 
However , her comparative immunity from further risk and trouble had considerably composed her . 
Elfride's capacity for being wounded was only surpassed by her capacity for healing , which rightly or wrongly is by some considered an index of transientness of feeling in general . 
'Elfride , what did they say at the Falcon ? 'Nothing . 
Nobody seemed curious about me . 
They knew I went to Plymouth , and I have stayed there a night now and then with Miss Bicknell . 
I rather calculated upon that . 
And now parting arose like a death to these children , for it was imperative that she should start at once . 
Stephen walked beside her for nearly a mile . 
During the walk he said sadly 'Elfride , four and twenty hours have passed , and the thing is not done . 
'But you have insured that it shall be done . 
You misunderstood my turning back , and I cannot explain it . 
It was wrong to go with you at all and though it would have been worse to go further , it would have been better policy , perhaps . 
Be assured of this , that whenever you have a home for me however poor and humble and come and claim me , I am ready . 
She added bitterly , 'When my father knows of this day's work , he may be only too glad to let me go . 
'Perhaps he may , then , insist upon our marriage at once ! Stephen answered , seeing a ray of hope in the very focus of her remorse . 
'I hope he may , even if we had still to part till I am ready for you , as we intended . 
'You don't seem the same woman , Elfie , that you were yesterday . 
'Nor am I. But good bye . 
And she reined the horse for parting . 
'O Stephen , she cried , 'I feel so weak ! I don't know how to meet him . 
Cannot you , after all , come back with me ? 'Shall I come ? Elfride paused to think . 
'No it will not do . 
It is my utter foolishness that makes me say such words . 
But he will send for you . 
'Say to him , continued Stephen , 'that we did this in the absolute despair of our minds . 
Tell him we don't wish him to favour us only to deal justly with us . 
If he says , marry now , so much the better . 
If not , say that all may be put right by his promise to allow me to have you when I am good enough for you which may be soon . 
As to when this had better be told , I leave you to judge . 
His words made her cheerful enough to toy with her position . 
'And if ill report should come , Stephen , she said smiling , 'why , the orange tree must save me , as it saved virgins in St . 
George's time from the poisonous breath of the dragon . 
There , forgive me for forwardness I am going . 
Then the boy and girl beguiled themselves with words of half parting only . 
'Own wifie , God bless you till we meet again ! 'Till we meet again , good bye ! And the pony went on , and she spoke to him no more . 
He saw her figure diminish and her blue veil grow gray saw it with the agonizing sensations of a slow death . 
After thus parting from a man than whom she had known none greater as yet , Elfride rode rapidly onwards , a tear being occasionally shaken from her eyes into the road . 
What yesterday had seemed so desirable , so promising , even trifling , had now acquired the complexion of a tragedy . 
They were hanging a carpet upon a line . 
Unity was uttering a sentence that concluded with 'when Miss Elfride comes . 
'When d'ye expect her ? 'Not till evening now . 
She's safe enough at Miss Bicknell's , bless ye . 
Elfride went round to the door . 
Then Elfride crept indoors , and looked into all the ground floor rooms . 
Her father was not there . 
On the mantelpiece of the drawing room stood a letter addressed to her in his handwriting . 
She took it and read it as she went upstairs to change her habit . 
'DEAR ELFRIDE , On second thoughts I will not return to day , but only come as far as Wadcombe . 
I shall be at home by to morrow afternoon , and bring a friend with me . 
Yours , in haste , C. S. After making a quick toilet she felt more revived , though still suffering from a headache . 
On going out of the door she met Unity at the top of the stair . 
'O Miss Elfride ! I said to myself 'tis her sperrit ! We didn't dream o' you not coming home last night . 
You didn't say anything about staying . 
'I intended to come home the same evening , but altered my plan . 
I wished I hadn't afterwards . 
Papa will be angry , I suppose ? 'Better not tell him , miss , said Unity . 
'I do fear to , she murmured . 
'Unity , would you just begin telling him when he comes home ? 'What ! and get you into trouble ? 'I deserve it . 
'No , indeed , I won't , said Unity . 
'It is not such a mighty matter , Miss Elfride . 
I says to myself , master's taking a hollerday , and because he's not been kind lately to Miss Elfride , she 'Is imitating him . 
Well , do as you like . 
She sat down , and leant with her head in a corner . 
Half awake , she hurriedly looked at the time . 
She had been there three hours . 
At the same moment she heard the outer gate swing together , and wheels sweep round the entrance some prior noise from the same source having probably been the cause of her awaking . 
Next her father's voice was heard calling to Worm . 
Elfride passed along a walk towards the house behind a belt of shrubs . 
She heard a tongue holding converse with her father , which was not that of either of the servants . 
Her father and the stranger were laughing together . 
'Come back to the summer house a minute , continued Mr. Swancourt 'I have to tell you of that I promised to . 
They entered the summer house , and stood leaning over the knotty woodwork of the balustrade . 
'Now , said her father radiantly , 'guess what I have to say . 
He seemed to be regarding his own existence so intently , that he took no interest in nor even saw the complexion of hers . 
'I cannot , papa , she said sadly . 
'I would rather not , indeed . 
The ride was too much for you . 
Well , this is what I went away for . 
I went to be married ! 'Married ! she faltered , and could hardly check an involuntary 'So did I. A moment after and her resolve to confess perished like a bubble . 
'Yes to whom do you think ? Mrs. Troyton , the new owner of the estate over the hedge , and of the old manor house . 
It was only finally settled between us when I went to Stratleigh a few days ago . 
He lowered his voice to a sly tone of merriment . 
'Now , as to your stepmother , you'll find she is not much to look at , though a good deal to listen to . 
She is twenty years older than myself , for one thing . 
'You forget that I know her . 
She called here once , after we had been , and found her away from home . 
'Of course , of course . 
Well , whatever her looks are , she's as excellent a woman as ever breathed . 
Elfride merely listened and said nothing . 
He continued more quietly and impressively . 
'Yes , Elfride , she is wealthy in comparison with us , though with few connections . 
However , she will introduce you to the world a little . 
We are going to exchange her house in Baker Street for one at Kensington , for your sake . 
Everybody is going there now , she says . 
At Easters we shall fly to town for the usual three months I shall have a curate of course by that time . 
Elfride , I am past love , you know , and I honestly confess that I married her for your sake . 
Why a woman of her standing should have thrown herself away upon me , God knows . 
But I suppose her age and plainness were too pronounced for a town man . 
With your good looks , if you now play your cards well , you may marry anybody . 
Of course , a little contrivance will be necessary but there's nothing to stand between you and a husband with a title , that I can see . 
Lady Luxellian was only a squire's daughter . 
Now , don't you see how foolish the old fancy was ? But come , she is indoors waiting to see you . 
It is as good as a play , too , continued the vicar , as they walked towards the house . 
'I courted her through the privet hedge yonder not entirely , you know , but we used to walk there of an evening nearly every evening at last . 
But I needn't tell you details now everything was terribly matter of fact , I assure you . 
At last , that day I saw her at Stratleigh , we determined to settle it off hand . 
'And you never said a word to me , replied Elfride , not reproachfully either in tone or thought . 
Indeed , her feeling was the very reverse of reproachful . 
She felt relieved and even thankful . 
Where confidence had not been given , how could confidence be expected ? Her father mistook her dispassionateness for a veil of politeness over a sense of ill usage . 
'I am not altogether to blame , he said . 
'There were two or three reasons for secrecy . 
One was the recent death of her relative the testator , though that did not apply to you . 
Elfride swallowed her feelings as she best could , and languidly though flatly asked a question . 
'Well , yes I think I did , he stammered 'just to please her , you know . 
And then recovering himself he laughed heartily . 
'And was this what your Horatian quotation referred to ? 'It was , Elfride . 
They stepped into the drawing room from the verandah . 
At that moment Mrs. Swancourt came downstairs , and entered the same room by the door . 
'Here , Charlotte , is my little Elfride , said Mr. Swancourt , with the increased affection of tone often adopted towards relations when newly produced . 
Poor Elfride , not knowing what to do , did nothing at all but stood receptive of all that came to her by sight , hearing , and touch . 
Mrs. Swancourt moved forward , took her step daughter's hand , then kissed her . 
Nor did she , I am sure . 
The new mother had been truthfully enough described by Mr. Swancourt . 
She was not physically attractive . 
No further observed , she was not a woman to like . 
But there was more to see . 
To the most superficial critic it was apparent that she made no attempt to disguise her age . 
She looked sixty at the first glance , and close acquaintanceship never proved her older . 
Another and still more winning trait was one attaching to the corners of her mouth . 
Only this element in her face was expressive of anything within the woman , but it was unmistakable . 
It expressed humour subjective as well as objective which could survey the peculiarities of self in as whimsical a light as those of other people . 
This is not all of Mrs. Swancourt . 
She had held out to Elfride hands whose fingers were literally stiff with rings , signis auroque rigentes , like Helen's robe . 
These rows of rings were not worn in vanity apparently . 
They were mostly antique and dull , though a few were the reverse . 
Plainly set oval onyx , representing a devil's head . 
Green jasper intaglio , with red veins . 
Entirely gold , bearing figure of a hideous griffin . 
A sea green monster diamond , with small diamonds round it . 
Antique cornelian intaglio of dancing figure of a satyr . 
An angular band chased with dragons' heads . 
A facetted carbuncle accompanied by ten little twinkling emeralds c . 
A heavy ring enamelled in colours , and bearing a jacynth . 
A polished ruby , surrounded by diamonds . 
The engraved ring of an abbess . 
Beyond this rather quaint array of stone and metal Mrs. Swancourt wore no ornament whatever . 
However , the suspension of feeling was but for a moment . 
Elfride decided to like her still . 
Mrs. Swancourt was a woman of the world as to knowledge , the reverse as to action , as her marriage suggested . 
Elfride and the lady were soon inextricably involved in conversation , and Mr. Swancourt left them to themselves . 
'And what do you find to do with yourself here ? Mrs. Swancourt said , after a few remarks about the wedding . 
'You ride , I know . 
But not much , because papa doesn't like my going alone . 
'You must have somebody to look after you . 
'And I read , and write a little . 
'You should write a novel . 
The regular resource of people who don't go enough into the world to live a novel is to write one . 
'I have done it , said Elfride , looking dubiously at Mrs. Swancourt , as if in doubt whether she would meet with ridicule there . 
Now , then , what is it about , dear ? 'About well , it is a romance of the Middle Ages . 
'Knowing nothing of the present age , which everybody knows about , for safety you chose an age known neither to you nor other people . 
That's it , eh ? No , no I don't mean it , dear . 
I know the time for these tales is past but I was interested in it , very much interested . 
'When is it to appear ? 'Oh , never , I suppose . 
'Nonsense , my dear girl . 
Publish it , by all means . 
All ladies do that sort of thing now not for profit , you know , but as a guarantee of mental respectability to their future husbands . 
'An excellent idea of us ladies . 
'Though I am afraid it rather resembles the melancholy ruse of throwing loaves over castle walls at besiegers , and suggests desperation rather than plenty inside . 
'Did you ever try it ? 'No I was too far gone even for that . 
'Papa says no publisher will take my book . 
'That remains to be proved . 
I'll give my word , my dear , that by this time next year it shall be printed . 
'Will you , indeed ? said Elfride , partially brightening with pleasure , though she was sad enough in her depths . 
'I thought brains were the indispensable , even if the only , qualification for admission to the republic of letters . 
A mere commonplace creature like me will soon be turned out again . 
'Oh no once you are there you'll be like a drop of water in a piece of rock crystal your medium will dignify your commonness . 
'It will be a great satisfaction , Elfride murmured , and thought of Stephen , and wished she could make a great fortune by writing romances , and marry him and live happily . 
'And then we'll go to London , and then to Paris , said Mrs. Swancourt . 
'I have been talking to your father about it . 
But we have first to move into the manor house , and we think of staying at Torquay whilst that is going on . 
Meanwhile , instead of going on a honeymoon scamper by ourselves , we have come home to fetch you , and go all together to Bath for two or three weeks . 
It was impossible now to tell him the tale of her wild elopement with Stephen Smith . 
He was still snugly housed in her heart . 
His absence had regained for him much of that aureola of saintship which had been nearly abstracted during her reproachful mood on that miserable journey from London . 
Rapture is often cooled by contact with its cause , especially if under awkward conditions . 
And that last experience with Stephen had done anything but make him shine in her eyes . 
His very kindness in letting her return was his offence . 
Decisive action is seen by appreciative minds to be frequently objectless , and sometimes fatal but decision , however suicidal , has more charm for a woman than the most unequivocal Fabian success . 
However , some of the unpleasant accessories of that occasion were now out of sight again , and Stephen had resumed not a few of his fancy colours . 
Chapter XIII 'He set in order many proverbs . 
It is London in October two months further on in the story . 
Characters of this kind frequently pass through the Inn from a little foxhole of an alley at the back , but they never loiter there . 
It is hardly necessary to state that all the sights and movements proper to the Inn are most orderly . 
We notice the thick coat of soot upon the branches , hanging underneath them in flakes , as in a chimney . 
Within the railings is a flower garden of respectable dahlias and chrysanthemums , where a man is sweeping the leaves from the grass . 
He reaches a door on the first floor , over which is painted , in black letters , 'Mr . 
Henry Knight' 'Barrister at law' being understood but not expressed . 
The wall is thick , and there is a door at its outer and inner face . 
The outer one happens to be ajar Stephen goes to the other , and taps . 
'Come in ! from distant penetralia . 
First was a small anteroom , divided from the inner apartment by a wainscoted archway two or three yards wide . 
Across this archway hung a pair of dark green curtains , making a mystery of all within the arch except the spasmodic scratching of a quill pen . 
Here was grouped a chaotic assemblage of articles mainly old framed prints and paintings leaning edgewise against the wall , like roofing slates in a builder's yard . 
Stephen pushed aside the curtain , and before him sat a man writing away as if his life depended upon it which it did . 
'Ah , my dear fellow , I knew 'twas you , said Knight , looking up with a smile , and holding out his hand . 
Knight's mouth and eyes came to view now . 
Both features were good , and had the peculiarity of appearing younger and fresher than the brow and face they belonged to , which were getting sicklied o'er by the unmistakable pale cast . 
A lady would have said there was a smell of tobacco in the room a man that there was not . 
He looked at a timepiece on the mantelshelf , then turned again to his letters , pointing to a chair . 
'Well , I am glad you have come . 
I only returned to town yesterday now , don't speak , Stephen , for ten minutes I have just that time to the late post . 
At the eleventh minute , I'm your man . 
Stephen sat down as if this kind of reception was by no means new , and away went Knight's pen , beating up and down like a ship in a storm . 
Cicero called the library the soul of the house here the house was all soul . 
Portions of the floor , and half the wall space , were taken up by book shelves ordinary and extraordinary the remaining parts , together with brackets , side tables , c . 
, being occupied by casts , statuettes , medallions , and plaques of various descriptions , picked up by the owner in his wanderings through France and Italy . 
One stream only of evening sunlight came into the room from a window quite in the corner , overlooking a court . 
An aquarium stood in the window . 
Now , Stephen , pull your chair round , and tell me what you have been doing all this time . 
Have you kept up your Greek ? 'No . 
'How's that ? 'I haven't enough spare time . 
'Well , I have done a great many things , if not that . 
And I have done one extraordinary thing . 
Knight turned full upon Stephen . 
'Ah ha ! Now , then , let me look into your face , put two and two together , and make a shrewd guess . 
Stephen changed to a redder colour . 
'Why , Smith , said Knight , after holding him rigidly by the shoulders , and keenly scrutinising his countenance for a minute in silence , 'you have fallen in love . 
'Well the fact is 'Now , out with it . 
But seeing that Stephen looked rather distressed , he changed to a kindly tone . 
'I'll tell this much I HAVE fallen in love , and I want to be MARRIED . 
Knight looked ominous as this passed Stephen's lips . 
'Don't judge me before you have heard more , cried Stephen anxiously , seeing the change in his friend's countenance . 
Does your mother know about it ? 'Nothing definite . 
The young person 'Come , that's dreadfully ungallant . 
But perhaps I understand the frame of mind a little , so go on . 
Your sweetheart 'She is rather higher in the world than I am . 
'And her father won't hear of it , as I now stand . 
'And now comes what I want your advice upon . 
Something has happened at her house which makes it out of the question for us to ask her father again now . 
So we are keeping silent . 
The salary he offers is rupees a month , or about Pounds . 
Hewby has mentioned it to me , and I have been to Dr . 
Wray , who says I shall acclimatise without much illness . 
Now , would you go ? 'You mean to say , because it is a possible road to the young lady . 
'Yes I was thinking I could go over and make a little money , and then come back and ask for her . 
I have the option of practising for myself after a year . 
Knight leant back in his chair . 
'Now , though I know her thoroughly as she exists in your heart , Stephen , I don't know her in the flesh . 
'Well , Stephen , you have put me in rather an awkward position . 
If I give my true sentiments , I shall hurt your feelings if I don't , I shall hurt my own judgment . 
And remember , I don't know much about women . 
'But you have had attachments , although you tell me very little about them . 
'And I only hope you'll continue to prosper till I tell you more . 
Stephen winced at this rap . 
'I have never formed a deep attachment , continued Knight . 
'I never have found a woman worth it . 
Nor have I been once engaged to be married . 
'You write as if you had been engaged a hundred times , if I may be allowed to say so , said Stephen in an injured tone . 
'Yes , that may be . 
But , my dear Stephen , it is only those who half know a thing that write about it . 
Those who know it thoroughly don't take the trouble . 
All I know about women , or men either , is a mass of generalities . 
I plod along , and occasionally lift my eyes and skim the weltering surface of mankind lying between me and the horizon , as a crow might no more . 
There was affective sympathy , but no great intellectual fellowship , between Knight and Stephen Smith . 
Circumstance , as usual , did it all . 
'And what do you think of her ? Stephen ventured to say , after a silence . 
'But she will ! cried Stephen desperately . 
'She is a girl all delicacy and honour . 
And no woman of that kind , who has committed herself so into a man's hands as she has into mine , could possibly marry another . 
'How has she committed herself ? asked Knight cunously . 
Knight had looked on his love so sceptically that it would not do to say all that he had intended to say by any means . 
'Well , don't tell , said Knight . 
'But you are begging the question , which is , I suppose , inevitable in love . 
'And I'll tell you another thing , the younger man pleaded . 
'You remember what you said to me once about women receiving a kiss . 
'It is true , quite , said Knight musingly . 
It often happened that the disciple thus remembered the lessons of the master long after the master himself had forgotten them . 
'Well , that was like her ! cried Stephen triumphantly . 
'She was in such a flurry that she didn't know what she was doing . 
'Splendid , splendid ! said Knight soothingly . 
No man fully realizes what opinions he acts upon , or what his actions mean . 
'Yes I go to Bombay . 
I'll write a note here , if you don't mind . 
'Sleep over it it is the best plan and write to morrow . 
Meantime , go there to that window and sit down , and look at my Humanity Show . 
I am going to dine out this evening , and have to dress here out of my portmanteau . 
I bring up my things like this to save the trouble of going down to my place at Richmond and back again . 
Knight then went to the middle of the room and flung open his portmanteau , and Stephen drew near the window . 
The streak of sunlight had crept upward , edged away , and vanished the zoophytes slept a dusky gloom pervaded the room . 
And now another volume of light shone over the window . 
'There ! said Knight , 'where is there in England a spectacle to equal that ? I sit there and watch them every night before I go home . 
Crowds mostly of women were surging , bustling , and pacing up and down . 
Then Knight also came to the window . 
His eyes rested upon an arm chair piled full of newspapers , magazines , and bright new volumes in green and red . 
'Yes , said Knight , also looking at them and breathing a sigh of weariness 'something must be done with several of them soon , I suppose . 
Stephen , you needn't hurry away for a few minutes , you know , if you want to stay I am not quite ready . 
Overhaul those volumes whilst I put on my coat , and I'll walk a little way with you . 
Stephen sat down beside the arm chair and began to tumble the books about . 
Among the rest he found a novelette in one volume , THE COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE . 
'Are you going to review this ? inquired Stephen with apparent unconcern , and holding up Elfride's effusion . 
'Which ? Oh , that ! I may though I don't do much light reviewing now . 
'How do you mean ? Knight never liked to be asked what he meant . 
'Mean ! I mean that the majority of books published are neither good enough nor bad enough to provoke criticism , and that that book does provoke it . 
'By its goodness or its badness ? Stephen said with some anxiety on poor little Elfride's score . 
It seems to be written by some girl in her teens . 
Stephen said not another word . 
Turning off the gas , and slamming together the door , they went downstairs and into the street . 
Chapter XIV 'We frolic while 'tis May . 
It has now to be realized that nearly three quarters of a year have passed away . 
In place of the autumnal scenery which formed a setting to the previous enactments , we have the culminating blooms of summer in the year following . 
Never had a young man a finer start than seemed now to present itself to Stephen . 
It was just in that exceptional heyday of prosperity which shone over Bombay some few years ago , that he arrived on the scene . 
Building and engineering partook of the general impetus . 
Speculation moved with an accelerated velocity every successive day , the only disagreeable contingency connected with it being the possibility of a collapse . 
Elfride had never told her father of the four and twenty hours' escapade with Stephen , nor had it , to her knowledge , come to his ears by any other route . 
It was a secret trouble and grief to the girl for a short time , and Stephen's departure was another ingredient in her sorrow . 
But Elfride possessed special facilities for getting rid of trouble after a decent interval . 
Whilst a slow nature was imbibing a misfortune little by little , she had swallowed the whole agony of it at a draught and was brightening again . 
She could slough off a sadness and replace it by a hope as easily as a lizard renews a diseased limb . 
And two such excellent distractions had presented themselves . 
One was bringing out the romance and looking for notices in the papers , which , though they had been significantly short so far , had served to divert her thoughts . 
The other was migrating from the vicarage to the more commodious old house of Mrs. Swancourt's , overlooking the same valley . 
Mr. Swancourt at first disliked the idea of being transplanted to feminine soil , but the obvious advantages of such an accession of dignity reconciled him to the change . 
So there was a radical 'move the two ladies staying at Torquay as had been arranged , the vicar going to and fro . 
Mrs. Swancourt considerably enlarged Elfride's ideas in an aristocratic direction , and she began to forgive her father for his politic marriage . 
Certainly , in a worldly sense , a handsome face at three and forty had never served a man in better stead . 
The new house at Kensington was ready , and they were all in town . 
We gaze upon the spectacle , at six o'clock on this midsummer afternoon , in a melon frame atmosphere and beneath a violet sky . 
The Swancourt equipage formed one in the stream . 
Mrs. Swancourt was a talker of talk of the incisive kind , which her low musical voice the only beautiful point in the old woman prevented from being wearisome . 
'Ay , that they will , said Mr. Swancourt corroboratively . 
'I have known labouring men at Endelstow and other farms who had framed complete systems of observation for that purpose . 
That reminds me of an old story which I'm afraid is too bad too bad to repeat . 
Here the vicar shook his head and laughed inwardly . 
'Tell it do ! said the ladies . 
'I mustn't quite tell it . 
'That's absurd , said Mrs. Swancourt . 
'Exactly , said Mrs. Swancourt . 
'Just look at that daughter's sister class of mamma in the carriage across there , she continued to Elfride , pointing with merely a turn of her eye . 
'The absorbing self consciousness of her position that is shown by her countenance is most humiliating to a lover of one's country . 
'How ? 'Why , to bear on their faces , as plainly as on a phylactery , the inscription , Do , pray , look at the coronet on my panels . 
'Really , Charlotte , said the vicar , 'you see as much in faces as Mr. Puff saw in Lord Burleigh's nod . 
'And what lovely flowers and leaves they wear in their bonnets ! she exclaimed . 
'Oh yes , returned Mrs. Swancourt . 
'Some of them are even more striking in colour than any real ones . 
Look at that beautiful rose worn by the lady inside the rails . 
'But praise them a little , they do deserve it ! said generous Elfride . 
Look at the pretty pout on the mouths of that family there , retaining no traces of being arranged beforehand , so well is it done . 
There's the red book lying on the opposite seat , bespeaking the vast numbers of their acquaintance . 
But I am only jesting , child you know that . 
'Piph ph ph how warm it is , to be sure ! said Mr. Swancourt , as if his mind were a long distance from all he saw . 
'How the men stare at you , Elfride ! said the elder lady . 
'You will kill me quite , I am afraid . 
'Kill you ? 'As a diamond kills an opal in the same setting . 
'I have noticed several ladies and gentlemen looking at me , said Elfride artlessly , showing her pleasure at being observed . 
'My dear , you mustn't say gentlemen nowadays , her stepmother answered in the tones of arch concern that so well became her ugliness . 
'We have handed over gentlemen to the lower middle class , where the word is still to be heard at tradesmen's balls and provincial tea parties , I believe . 
It is done with here . 
'What must I say , then ? Ladies and MEN always . 
In this sat a gentleman with no decided characteristics more than that he somewhat resembled a good natured commercial traveller of the superior class . 
Opposite this pair sat two little girls in white hats and blue feathers . 
The lady saw Elfride , smiled and bowed , and touched her husband's elbow , who turned and received Elfride's movement of recognition with a gallant elevation of his hat . 
Then the two children held up their arms to Elfride , and laughed gleefully . 
'Who is that ? 'Why , Lord Luxellian , isn't it ? said Mrs. Swancourt , who with the vicar had been seated with her back towards them . 
'He is the one man of those I have seen here whom I consider handsomer than papa . 
'Thank you , dear , said Mr. Swancourt . 
'Yes but your father is so much older . 
When Lord Luxellian gets a little further on in life , he won't be half so good looking as our man . 
'Thank you , dear , likewise , said Mr. Swancourt . 
'See , exclaimed Elfride , still looking towards them , 'how those little dears want me ! Actually one of them is crying for me to come . 
'We were talking of bracelets just now . 
Look at Lady Luxellian's , said Mrs. Swancourt , as that baroness lifted up her arm to support one of the children . 
'It is slipping up her arm too large by half . 
I hate to see daylight between a bracelet and a wrist I wonder women haven't better taste . 
'It is not on that account , indeed , Elfride expostulated . 
'It is that her arm has got thin , poor thing . 
You cannot think how much she has altered in this last twelvemonth . 
The carriages were now nearer together , and there was an exchange of more familiar greetings between the two families . 
Then the Luxellians crossed over and drew up under the plane trees , just in the rear of the Swancourts . 
Lord Luxellian alighted , and came forward with a musical laugh . 
It was his attraction as a man . 
People liked him for those tones , and forgot that he had no talents . 
Acquaintances remembered Mr. Swancourt by his manner they remembered Stephen Smith by his face , Lord Luxellian by his laugh . 
Mr. Swancourt made some friendly remarks among others things upon the heat . 
Ha ha ! He turned to Elfride . 
'Miss Swancourt , I have hardly seen or spoken to you since your literary feat was made public . 
I had no idea a chiel was taking notes down at quiet Endelstow , or I should certainly have put myself and friends upon our best behaviour . 
Swancourt , why didn't you give me a hint ! Elfride fluttered , blushed , laughed , said it was nothing to speak of , c . 
'Well , I think you were rather unfairly treated by the PRESENT , I certainly do . 
Writing a heavy review like that upon an elegant trifle like the COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE was absurd . 
'What ? said Elfride , opening her eyes . 
'Was I reviewed in the PRESENT ? 'Oh yes didn't you see it ? Why , it was four or five months ago ! 'No , I never saw it . 
How sorry I am ! What a shame of my publishers ! They promised to send me every notice that appeared . 
'Ah , then , I am almost afraid I have been giving you disagreeable information , intentionally withheld out of courtesy . 
Depend upon it they thought no good would come of sending it , and so would not pain you unnecessarily . 
'Oh no I am indeed glad you have told me , Lord Luxellian . 
It is quite a mistaken kindness on their part . 
Is the review so much against me ? she inquired tremulously . 
'No , no not that exactly though I almost forget its exact purport now . 
It was merely merely sharp , you know ungenerous , I might say . 
But really my memory does not enable me to speak decidedly . 
'We'll drive to the PRESENT office , and get one directly shall we , papa ? 'If you are so anxious , dear , we will , or send . 
But to morrow will do . 
'And do oblige me in a little matter now , Elfride , said Lord Luxellian warmly , and looking as if he were sorry he had brought news that disturbed her . 
'I am in reality sent here as a special messenger by my little Polly and Katie to ask you to come into our carriage with them for a short time . 
I am just going to walk across into Piccadilly , and my wife is left alone with them . 
I am afraid they are rather spoilt children but I have half promised them you shall come . 
Lord Luxellian then told the coachman to drive on , lifted his hat , smiled a smile that missed its mark and alighted on a total stranger , who bowed in bewilderment . 
Lord Luxellian looked long at Elfride . 
Then Lord Luxellian turned away , and walked musingly to the upper end of the promenade . 
Now , whilst this little act had been in course of performance , there stood among the promenading spectators a man of somewhat different description from the rest . 
Behind the general throng , in the rear of the chairs , and leaning against the trunk of a tree , he looked at Elfride with quiet and critical interest . 
Three points about this unobtrusive person showed promptly to the exercised eye that he was not a Row man pur sang . 
The probability is that , had not Mrs. Swancourt been left alone in her carriage under the tree , this man would have remained in his unobserved seclusion . 
But seeing her thus , he came round to the front , stooped under the rail , and stood beside the carriage door . 
'Yes , one of a remnant not yet cut off . 
I scarcely was certain of you , either , from where I was standing . 
Knight presently inquired 'The young lady who changed into the other carriage is , then , your stepdaughter ? 'Yes , Elfride . 
My husband is remotely connected with them but there is not much intimacy on account of . 
However , Henry , you'll come and see us , of course . 
We shall only be in town a week or two longer . 
'Then come to Endelstow why not return with us ? 'I am afraid if I were to come before August I should have to leave again in a day or two . 
I should be delighted to be with you at the beginning of that month and I could stay a nice long time . 
I have thought of going westward all the summer . 
Now remember that's a compact . 
And won't you wait now and see Mr. Swancourt ? He will not be away ten minutes longer . 
You will explain to him , please . 
'And let us know the day of your appearance as soon as you can . 
'I will' Chapter XV 'A wandering voice . 
Though sheer and intelligible griefs are not charmed away by being confided to mere acquaintances , the process is a palliative to certain ill humours . 
Among these , perplexed vexation is one a species of trouble which , like a stream , gets shallower by the simple operation of widening it in any quarter . 
On the evening of the day succeeding that of the meeting in the Park , Elfride and Mrs. Swancourt were engaged in conversation in the dressing room of the latter . 
Such a treatment of such a case was in course of adoption here . 
Elfride had just before received an affectionate letter from Stephen Smith in Bombay , which had been forwarded to her from Endelstow . 
The letter was finally reperused and placed in her pocket . 
What was this ? Also a newspaper for Elfride , which she had overlooked in her hurry to open the letter . 
It was the old number of the PRESENT , containing the article upon her book , forwarded as had been requested . 
She was now looking disconsolately out of the window . 
'Never mind , my child , said Mrs. Swancourt after a careful perusal of the matter indicated . 
'I don't see that the review is such a terrible one , after all . 
Besides , everybody has forgotten about it by this time . 
I'm sure the opening is good enough for any book ever written . 
Just listen it sounds better read aloud than when you pore over it silently THE COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE . 
A ROMANCE OF THE MIDDLE AGES . 
Now , that's a very good beginning , in my opinion , and one to be proud of having brought out of a man who has never seen you . 
'Ah , yes , murmured Elfride wofully . 
'But , then , see further on ! 'Well the next bit is rather unkind , I must own , said Mrs. Swancourt , and read on . 
'I am not silly ! said Elfride indignantly . 
'He might have called me anything but that . 
'You are not , indeed . 
Well Hands of a young lady . 
The bait is so palpably artificial that the most credulous gudgeon turns away . 
Now , my dear , I don't see overmuch to complain of in that . 
It proves that you were clever enough to make him think of Sir Walter Scott , which is a great deal . 
Your book is good enough to be bad in an ordinary literary manner , and doesn't stand by itself in a melancholy position altogether worse than assailable . 
Well , that long winded effusion doesn't refer to you at all , Elfride , merely something put in to fill up . 
Let me see , when does he come to you again . 
not till the very end , actually . 
Here you are finally polished off But to return to the little work we have used as the text of this article . 
We are far from altogether disparaging the author's powers . 
'Well , I suppose it is intended for satire but don't think anything more of it now , my dear . 
And Mrs. Swancourt rang for her maid . 
Attack is more piquant than concord . 
Stephen's letter was concerning nothing but oneness with her the review was the very reverse . 
And a stranger with neither name nor shape , age nor appearance , but a mighty voice , is naturally rather an interesting novelty to a lady he chooses to address . 
When Elfride fell asleep that night she was loving the writer of the letter , but thinking of the writer of that article . 
Chapter XVI 'Then fancy shapes as fancy can . 
In regarding our mental experiences , as in visual observation , our own progress reads like a dwindling of that we progress from . 
She was seated on a low chair , looking over her romance with melancholy interest for the first time since she had become acquainted with the remarks of the PRESENT thereupon . 
'Still thinking of that reviewer , Elfie ? 'Not of him personally but I am thinking of his opinion . 
Really , on looking into the volume after this long time has elapsed , he seems to have estimated one part of it fairly enough . 
'No , no I wouldn't show the white feather now ! Fancy that of all people in the world the writer herself should go over to the enemy . 
How shall Monmouth's men fight when Monmouth runs away ? 'I don't do that . 
But I think he is right in some of his arguments , though wrong in others . 
And because he has some claim to my respect I regret all the more that he should think so mistakenly of my motives in one or two instances . 
It is more vexing to be misunderstood than to be misrepresented and he misunderstands me . 
I cannot be easy whilst a person goes to rest night after night attributing to me intentions I never had . 
'He doesn't know your name , or anything about you . 
And he has doubtless forgotten there is such a book in existence by this time . 
'I myself should certainly like him to be put right upon one or two matters , said the vicar , who had hitherto been silent . 
'You see , critics go on writing , and are never corrected or argued with , and therefore are never improved . 
'Papa , said Elfride brightening , 'write to him ! 'I would as soon write to him as look at him , for the matter of that , said Mr. Swancourt . 
'You shall write a clear account of what he is wrong in , and I will copy it and send it as mine . 
'Yes , now , directly ! said Elfride , jumping up . 
'When will you send it , papa ? 'Oh , in a day or two , I suppose , he returned . 
Then the vicar paused and slightly yawned , and in the manner of elderly people began to cool from his ardour for the undertaking now that it came to the point . 
'But , really , it is hardly worth while , he said . 
'O papa ! said Elfride , with much disappointment . 
'You said you would , and now you won't . 
'An envelope addressed , To the Critic of THE COURT OF KELLYON CASTLE , care of the Editor of the PRESENT , would find him . 
'Yes , I suppose it would . 
'Why not write your answer yourself , Elfride ? Mrs. Swancourt inquired . 
'I might , she said hesitatingly 'and send it anonymously that would be treating him as he has treated me . 
'No use in the world ! 'But I don't like to let him know my exact name . 
Suppose I put my initials only ? The less you are known the more you are thought of . 
'Yes you might do that . 
Elfride set to work there and then . 
Her one desire for the last fortnight seemed likely to be realized . 
Four days later an envelope , directed to Miss Swancourt in a strange hand , made its appearance from the post bag . 
h , said Elfride , her heart sinking within her . 
'Can it be from that man a lecture for impertinence ? And actually one for Mrs. Swancourt in the same hand writing ! She feared to open hers . 
'Yet how can he know my name ? No it is somebody else . 
'Nonsense ! said her father grimly . 
'You sent your initials , and the Directory was available . 
Though he wouldn't have taken the trouble to look there unless he had been thoroughly savage with you . 
I thought you wrote with rather more asperity than simple literary discussion required . 
This timely clause was introduced to save the character of the vicar's judgment under any issue of affairs . 
'Well , here I go , said Elfride , desperately tearing open the seal . 
'To be sure , of course , exclaimed Mrs. Swancourt and looking up from her own letter . 
And now he says he can come any day in August . 
'Write , and say the first of the month , replied the indiscriminate vicar . 
She read om 'Goodness me and that isn't all . 
He is actually the reviewer of Elfride's book . 
How absurd , to be sure ! I had no idea he reviewed novels or had anything to do with the PRESENT . 
He is a barrister and I thought he only wrote in the Quarterlies . 
Why , Elfride , you have brought about an odd entanglement ! What does he say to you ? Elfride had put down her letter with a dissatisfied flush on her face . 
The idea of his knowing my name and all about me ! . 
You , will find from a letter I have written to Mrs. Swancourt , that we are not such strangers to each other as we have been imagining . 
Possibly , I may have the pleasure of seeing you soon , when any argument you choose to advance shall receive all the attention it deserves . 
'That is dim sarcasm I know it is . 
'And then , his remarks didn't seem harsh I mean I did not say so . 
'He thinks you are in a frightful temper , said Mr. Swancourt , chuckling in undertones . 
'And he will come and see me , and find the authoress as contemptible in speech as she has been impertinent in manner . 
The idea of our running our heads against Harry Knight all the time ! I cannot get over that . 
disagreeable mistake with regard to poor Stephen's lineage and position . 
Elfride had of course perceived the same thing , which added to the complication of relationship a mesh that her stepmother knew nothing of . 
The identification scarcely heightened Knight's attractions now , though a twelvemonth ago she would only have cared to see him for the interest he possessed as Stephen's friend . 
These coincidences , in common with all relating to him , tended to keep Elfride's mind upon the stretch concerning Knight . 
'There is Henry Knight , I declare ! said Mrs. Swancourt one day . 
The stony escarpment upon which they stood had the contour of a man's face , and it was covered with furze as with a beard . 
Scrambling higher into the hedge and stretching her neck further over the furze , Elfride beheld the individual signified . 
The satchel was worn and old , and the outer polished surface of the leather was cracked and peeling off . 
When they had reached a point precisely opposite that in which Mrs. and Miss Swancourt lay in ambush , Knight stopped and turned round . 
'Look here , my boy , he said . 
The boy parted his lips , opened his eyes , and answered nothing . 
'Here's sixpence for you , on condition that you don't again come within twenty yards of my heels , all the way up the valley . 
The boy , who apparently had not known he had been looking at Knight's heels at all , took the sixpence mechanically , and Knight went on again , wrapt in meditation . 
'A nice voice , Elfride thought 'but what a singular temper ! 'Now we must get indoors before he ascends the slope , said Mrs. Swancourt softly . 
And they went across by a short cut over a stile , entering the lawn by a side door , and so on to the house . 
Mr. Swancourt had gone into the village with the curate , and Elfride felt too nervous to await their visitor's arrival in the drawing room with Mrs. Swancourt . 
So that when the elder lady entered , Elfride made some pretence of perceiving a new variety of crimson geranium , and lingered behind among the flower beds . 
There was nothing gained by this , after all , she thought and a few minutes after boldly came into the house by the glass side door . 
She walked along the corridor , and entered the drawing room . 
A window at the angle of the room opened directly into an octagonal conservatory , enclosing the corner of the building . 
From the conservatory came voices in conversation Mrs. Swancourt's and the stranger's . 
She had expected him to talk brilliantly . 
To her surprise he was asking questions in quite a learner's manner , on subjects connected with the flowers and shrubs that she had known for years . 
They were now approaching the window to come in again . 
'That is a flesh coloured variety , said Mrs. Swancourt . 
'But oleanders , though they are such bulky shrubs , are so very easily wounded as to be unprunable giants with the sensitiveness of young ladies . 
Oh , here is Elfride ! Elfride looked as guilty and crestfallen as Lady Teazle at the dropping of the screen . 
Mrs. Swancourt presented him half comically , and Knight in a minute or two placed himself beside the young lady . 
A complexity of instincts checked Elfride's conventional smiles of complaisance and hospitality and , to make her still less comfortable , Mrs. Swancourt immediately afterwards left them together to seek her husband . 
Mr. Knight , however , did not seem at all incommoded by his feelings , and he said with light easefulness 'So , Miss Swancourt , I have met you at last . 
You escaped me by a few minutes only when we were in London . 
I found that you had seen Mrs. Swancourt . 
'And now reviewer and reviewed are face to face , he added unconcernedly . 
'Yes though the fact of your being a relation of Mrs. Swancourt's takes off the edge of it . 
It was strange that you should be one of her family all the time . 
Elfride began to recover herself now , and to look into Knight's face . 
'I was merely anxious to let you know my REAL meaning in writing the book extremely anxious . 
'I can quite understand the wish and I was gratified that my remarks should have reached home . 
They very seldom do , I am afraid . 
Here he was , sticking to his opinions as firmly as if friendship and politeness did not in the least require an immediate renunciation of them . 
'That is rather the object of honest critics in such a case . 
Are you going to write another romance ? 'Write another ? she said . 
But I would advise you to confine yourself to domestic scenes . 
But never again ! 'Well , you may be right . 
That a young woman has taken to writing is not by any means the best thing to hear about her . 
'What is the best ? 'I prefer not to say . 
'Do you know ? Then , do tell me , please . 
'I suppose to hear that she has married . 
'And what when she has been married ? she said at last , partly in order to withdraw her own person from the argument . 
'Then to hear no more about her . 
'Yes , I see , said Elfride softly and thoughtfully . 
'But of course it is different quite with men . 
Why don't you write novels , Mr. Knight ? 'Because I couldn't write one that would interest anybody . 
'Why ? 'For several reasons . 
It requires a judicious omission of your real thoughts to make a novel popular , for one thing . 
'You would make a great name for certain , she continued . 
'So many people make a name nowadays , that it is more distinguished to remain in obscurity . 
'Tell me seriously apart from the subject why don't you write a volume instead of loose articles ? she insisted . 
'As I have implied , I have not the wish . 
And if I had the wish , I could not now concentrate sufficiently . 
We all have only our one cruse of energy given us to make the best of . 
Then there is the self confidence and waiting power . 
Where quick results have grown customary , they are fatal to a lively faith in the future . 
It was by the constraint of accident merely . 
Not that I object to the accident . 
Knight certainly did not mind being frank with her . 
Instances of this trait in men who are not without feeling , but are reticent from habit , may be recalled by all of us . 
'Why I don't mind the accidental constraint , he replied , 'is because , in making beginnings , a chance limitation of direction is often better than absolute freedom . 
'I see that is , I should if I quite understood what all those generalities mean . 
'Lateral compression forcing altitude , as would be said in that tongue , she said mischievously . 
'Yes , he said meditatively . 
'I can go as far as that . 
'Well , resumed Elfride , 'I think it better for a man's nature if he does nothing in particular . 
'There is such a case as being obliged to . 
'Yes , yes I was speaking of when you are not obliged for any other reason than delight in the prospect of fame . 
'Why , that's the very thing I said just now as being the principle of all ephemeral doers like myself . 
'Oh , I am sorry to have parodied you , she said with some confusion . 
That is what you meant about not trying to be famous . 
And she added , with the quickness of conviction characteristic of her mind 'There is much littleness in trying to be great . 
A man must think a good deal of himself , and be conceited enough to believe in himself , before he tries at all . 
Besides , we should not conclude that a man who strives earnestly for success does so with a strong sense of his own merit . 
He may see how little success has to do with merit , and his motive may be his very humility . 
This manner of treating her rather provoked Elfride . 
No sooner did she agree with him than he ceased to seem to wish it , and took the other side . 
'Ah , she thought inwardly , 'I shall have nothing to do with a man of this kind , though he is our visitor . 
They go on because they have begun . 
Elfride , in her turn , was not particularly attending to his words at this moment . 
On such occasions she artlessly surveyed the person speaking and then there was a time for a painter . 
This is how she was looking at Knight . 
Suddenly Elfride became conscious of what she was doing , and was painfully confused . 
'What were you so intent upon in me ? he inquired . 
Feeling restless now that she had so unwittingly spoken , she arose and stepped to the window , having heard the voices of her father and Mrs. Swancourt coming up below the terrace . 
'Here they are , she said , going out . 
Knight walked out upon the lawn behind her . 
Knight could not help looking at her . 
The ends of her hanging hair softly dragged themselves backwards and forwards upon her shoulder as each faint breeze thrust against or relinquished it . 
Knight's portmanteau having in the meantime arrived , they soon retired to prepare for dinner , which had been postponed two hours later than the usual time of that meal . 
An arrival was an event in the life of Elfride , now that they were again in the country , and that of Knight necessarily an engrossing one . 
And that evening she went to bed for the first time without thinking of Stephen at all . 
Chapter XVIII 'He heard her musical pants . 
The old tower of West Endelstow Church had reached the last weeks of its existence . 
It was to be replaced by a new one from the designs of Mr. Hewby , the architect who had sent down Stephen . 
This was the day after Knight's arrival . 
They had hardly reached the top when a large lurid cloud , palpably a reservoir of rain , thunder , and lightning , was seen to be advancing overhead from the north . 
The two cautious elders suggested an immediate return , and proceeded to put it in practice as regarded themselves . 
'Dear me , I wish I had not come up , exclaimed Mrs. Swancourt . 
Accordingly Elfride and Knight waited on the leads till the staircase should be clear . 
Knight was not in a talkative mood that morning . 
Elfride was rather wilful , by reason of his inattention , which she privately set down to his thinking her not worth talking to . 
Whilst Knight stood watching the rise of the cloud , she sauntered to the other side of the tower , and there remembered a giddy feat she had performed the year before . 
Without reflecting in the least upon what she was doing she now stepped upon the parapet in the old way , and began walking along . 
'We are down , cousin Henry , cried Mrs. Swancourt up the turret . 
'Follow us when you like . 
Knight turned and saw Elfride beginning her elevated promenade . 
His face flushed with mingled concern and anger at her rashness . 
'I certainly gave you credit for more common sense , he said . 
She reddened a little and walked on . 
'Miss Swancourt , I insist upon your coming down , he exclaimed . 
'I will in a minute . 
I have done it often . 
Knight sprang forward with a face of horror . 
Already lowered to that state , his words completely over powered her , and she swooned away as he held her . 
Elfride's eyes were not closed for more than forty seconds . 
She opened them , and remembered the position instantly . 
His face had altered its expression from stern anger to pity . 
But his severe remarks had rather frightened her , and she struggled to be free . 
'If you can stand , of course you may , he said , and loosened his arms . 
'I hardly know whether most to laugh at your freak or to chide you for its folly . 
She immediately sank upon the lead work . 
'Are you hurt ? he said . 
She murmured an incoherent expression , and tried to smile saying , with a fitful aversion of her face , 'I am only frightened . 
Put me down , do put me down ! 'But you can't walk , said Knight . 
'You don't know that how can you ? I am only frightened , I tell you , she answered petulantly , and raised her hand to her forehead . 
Knight then saw that she was bleeding from a severe cut in her wrist , apparently where it had descended upon a salient corner of the lead work . 
Elfride , too , seemed to perceive and feel this now for the first time , and for a minute nearly lost consciousness again . 
Knight rapidly bound his handkerchief round the place , and to add to the complication , the thundercloud he had been watching began to shed some heavy drops of rain . 
Knight looked up and saw the vicar striding towards the house , and Mrs. Swancourt waddling beside him like a hard driven duck . 
'As you are so faint , it will be much better to let me carry you down , said Knight 'or at any rate inside out of the rain . 
But her objection to be lifted made it impossible for him to support her for more than five steps . 
'This is folly , great folly , he exclaimed , setting her down . 
'Indeed ! she murmured , with tears in her eyes . 
'I say I will not be carried , and you say this is folly ! 'So it is . 
'No , it isn't ! 'It is folly , I think . 
At any rate , the origin of it all is . 
'I don't agree to it . 
And you needn't get so angry with me I am not worth it . 
You are worth the enmity of princes , as was said of such another . 
Now , then , will you clasp your hands behind my neck , that I may carry you down without hurting you ? 'No , no . 
'You had better , or I shall foreclose . 
'What's that ! 'Deprive you of your chance . 
Elfride gave a little toss . 
'Now , don't writhe so when I attempt to carry you . 
I don't care , she murmured in languid tones and with closed eyes . 
He took her into his arms , entered the turret , and with slow and cautious steps descended round and round . 
Then , with the gentleness of a nursing mother , he attended to the cut on her arm . 
In the centre of each pale cheek a small red spot the size of a wafer had now made its appearance , and continued to grow larger . 
Elfride momentarily expected a recurrence to the lecture on her foolishness , but Knight said no more than this 'Promise me NEVER to walk on that parapet again . 
'It will be pulled down soon so I do . 
'That we have lived through that moment before ? 'Or shall again . 
Well , I felt on the tower that something similar to that scene is again to be common to us both . 
'God forbid ! said Knight . 
'Promise me that you will never again walk on any such place on any consideration . 
'That such a thing has not been before , we know . 
That it shall not be again , you vow . 
Therefore think no more of such a foolish fancy . 
There had fallen a great deal of rain , but unaccompanied by lightning . 
A few minutes longer , and the storm had ceased . 
'Now , take my arm , please . 
'Oh no , it is not necessary . 
This relapse into wilfulness was because he had again connected the epithet foolish with her . 
'Nonsense it is quite necessary it will rain again directly , and you are not half recovered . 
And without more ado Knight took her hand , drew it under his arm , and held it there so firmly that she could not have removed it without a struggle . 
During the remainder of the afternoon Elfride was invisible but at dinner time she appeared as bright as ever . 
In the drawing room , after having been exclusively engaged with Mr. and Mrs. Swancourt through the intervening hour , Knight again found himself thrown with Elfride . 
She had been looking over a chess problem in one of the illustrated periodicals . 
'You like chess , Miss Swancourt ? 'Yes . 
It is my favourite scientific game indeed , excludes every other . 
Do you play ? 'I have played though not lately . 
'Challenge him , Elfride , said the vicar heartily . 
'She plays very well for a lady , Mr. Knight . 
'Shall we play ? asked Elfride tentatively . 
Mr. Swancourt had forgotten a similar performance with Stephen Smith the year before . 
Knight , by one of those inexcusable oversights which will sometimes afflict the best of players , placed his rook in the arms of one of her pawns . 
It was her first advantage . 
She looked triumphant even ruthless . 
'By George ! what was I thinking of ? said Knight quietly and then dismissed all concern at his accident . 
'Club laws we'll have , won't we , Mr. Knight ? said Elfride suasively . 
She immediately took up the unfortunate rook and the contest proceeded , Elfride having now rather the better of the game . 
Then he won the exchange , regained his position , and began to press her hard . 
Elfride grew flurried , and placed her queen on his remaining rook's file . 
'There how stupid ! Upon my word , I did not see your rook . 
Of course nobody but a fool would have put a queen there knowingly ! She spoke excitedly , half expecting her antagonist to give her back the move . 
'Nobody , of course , said Knight serenely , and stretched out his hand towards his royal victim . 
'It is not very pleasant to have it taken advantage of , then , she said with some vexation . 
'Club laws , I think you said ? returned Knight blandly , and mercilessly appropriating the queen . 
She was on the brink of pouting , but was ashamed to show it tears almost stood in her eyes . 
She had been trying so hard so very hard thinking and thinking till her brain was in a whirl and it seemed so heartless of him to treat her so , after all . 
'I think it is she began . 
'What ? 'Unkind to take advantage of a pure mistake I make in that way . 
'I lost my rook by even a purer mistake , said the enemy in an inexorable tone , without lifting his eyes . 
'Yes , but However , as his logic was absolutely unanswerable , she merely registered a protest . 
'I cannot endure those cold blooded ways of clubs and professional players , like Staunton and Morphy . 
Just as if it really mattered whether you have raised your fingers from a man or no ! Knight smiled as pitilessly as before , and they went on in silence . 
'Another game , said Elfride peremptorily , and looking very warm . 
'With all my heart , said Knight . 
'Checkmate , said Knight again at the end of forty minutes . 
'Another game , she returned resolutely . 
'I'll give you the odds of a bishop , Knight said to her kindly . 
'No , thank you , Elfride replied in a tone intended for courteous indifference but , as a fact , very cavalier indeed . 
'Checkmate , said her opponent without the least emotion . 
Oh , the difference between Elfride's condition of mind now , and when she purposely made blunders that Stephen Smith might win ! It was bedtime . 
In bed no sleep came to soothe her that gentle thing being the very middle of summer friend in this respect of flying away at the merest troublous cloud . 
After lying awake till two o'clock an idea seemed to strike her . 
She softly arose , got a light , and fetched a Chess Praxis from the library . 
Returning and sitting up in bed , she diligently studied the volume till the clock struck five , and her eyelids felt thick and heavy . 
She then extinguished the light and lay down again . 
'You look pale , Elfride , said Mrs. Swancourt the next morning at breakfast . 
'Am I pale ? she said with a faint smile . 
'I did not sleep much . 
I could not get rid of armies of bishops and knights , try how I would . 
'Chess is a bad thing just before bedtime especially for excitable people like yourself , dear . 
Don't ever play late again . 
Cousin Knight , she said in imitation of Mrs. Swancourt , 'will you oblige me in something ? 'Even to half my kingdom . 
'Well , it is to play one game more . 
'When ? 'Now , instantly the moment we have breakfasted . 
'Nonsense , Elfride , said her father . 
'Making yourself a slave to the game like that . 
'But I want to , papa ! Honestly , I am restless at having been so ignominiously overcome . 
And Mr. Knight doesn't mind . 
So what harm can there be ? 'Let us play , by all means , if you wish it , said Knight . 
So , when breakfast was over , the combatants withdrew to the quiet of the library , and the door was closed . 
Elfride seemed to have an idea that her conduct was rather ill regulated and startlingly free from conventional restraint . 
And worse , she fancied upon Knight's face a slightly amused look at her proceedings . 
'You think me foolish , I suppose , she said recklessly 'but I want to do my very best just once , and see whether I can overcome you . 
Though I am afraid it is not the plan adopted by women of the world after a defeat . 
'Why , pray ? 'Because they know that as good as overcoming is skill in effacing recollection of being overcome , and turn their attention to that entirely . 
'I am wrong again , of course . 
'Perhaps your wrong is more pleasing than their right . 
'I don't quite know whether you mean that , or whether you are laughing at me , she said , looking doubtingly at him , yet inclining to accept the more flattering interpretation . 
'I am almost sure you think it vanity in me to think I am a match for you . 
Well , if you do , I say that vanity is no crime in such a case . 
Though it is hardly a virtue . 
'Oh yes , in battle ! Nelson's bravery lay in his vanity . 
'Indeed ! Then so did his death . 
Elfride's heart beat so violently that she could not sit still . 
Her dread was lest he should hear it . 
And he did discover it at last some flowers upon the table being set throbbing by its pulsations . 
'I think we had better give over , said Knight , looking at her gently . 
'It is too much for you , I know . 
Let us write down the position , and finish another time . 
'No , please not , she implored . 
'I should not rest if I did not know the result at once . 
'I know what you are doing ? she cried , an angry colour upon her cheeks , and her eyes indignant . 
'But you must not ! I won't have it . 
'No , that will not do I insist that you promise not to do any such absurd thing . 
It is insulting me ! 'Very well , madam . 
I won't do any such absurd thing . 
'That is to be proved ! she returned proudly and the play went on . 
Nothing is now heard but the ticking of a quaint old timepiece on the summit of a bookcase . 
Ten minutes pass he captures her knight she takes his knight , and looks a very Rhadamanthus . 
More minutes tick away she takes his pawn and has the advantage , showing her sense of it rather prominently . 
Five minutes more he takes her bishop she brings things even by taking his knight . 
Three minutes she looks bold , and takes his queen he looks placid , and takes hers . 
Eight or ten minutes pass he takes a pawn she utters a little pooh ! but not the ghost of a pawn can she take in retaliation . 
Ten minutes pass he takes another pawn and says , 'Check ! She flushes , extricates herself by capturing his bishop , and looks triumphant . 
He immediately takes her bishop she looks surprised . 
Five minutes longer she makes a dash and takes his only remaining bishop he replies by taking her only remaining knight . 
Two minutes he gives check her mind is now in a painful state of tension , and she shades her face with her hand . 
Yet a few minutes more he takes her rook and checks again . 
She literally trembles now lest an artful surprise she has in store for him shall be anticipated by the artful surprise he evidently has in store for her . 
Five minutes 'Checkmate in two moves ! exclaims Elfride . 
'If you can , says Knight . 
'Oh , I have miscalculated that is cruel ! 'Checkmate , says Knight and the victory is won . 
Elfride arose and turned away without letting him see her face . 
Once in the hall she ran upstairs and into her room , and flung herself down upon her bed , weeping bitterly . 
'Where is Elfride ? said her father at luncheon . 
Knight listened anxiously for the answer . 
He had been hoping to see her again before this time . 
'She isn't well , sir , was the reply . 
Mrs. Swancourt rose and left the room , going upstairs to Elfride's apartment . 
At the door was Unity , who occupied in the new establishment a position between young lady's maid and middle housemaid . 
'She is sound asleep , ma'am , Unity whispered . 
Mrs. Swancourt opened the door . 
Elfride was lying full dressed on the bed , her face hot and red , her arms thrown abroad . 
At intervals of a minute she tossed restlessly from side to side , and indistinctly moaned words used in the game of chess . 
Mrs. Swancourt had a turn for doctoring , and felt her pulse . 
It was twanging like a harp string , at the rate of nearly a hundred and fifty a minute . 
Softly moving the sleeping girl to a little less cramped position , she went downstairs again . 
'She is asleep now , said Mrs. Swancourt . 
'She does not seem very well . 
Cousin Knight , what were you thinking of ? her tender brain won't bear cudgelling like your great head . 
You should have strictly forbidden her to play again . 
In truth , the essayist's experience of the nature of young women was far less extensive than his abstract knowledge of them led himself and others to believe . 
He could pack them into sentences like a workman , but practically was nowhere . 
'I am indeed sorry , said Knight , feeling even more than he expressed . 
'But surely , the young lady knows best what is good for her ! 'Bless you , that's just what she doesn't know . 
She never thinks of such things , does she , Christopher ? Her father and I have to command her and keep her in order , as you would a child . 
She will say things worthy of a French epigrammatist , and act like a robin in a greenhouse . 
But I think we will send for Dr . 
Granson there can be no harm . 
A man was straightway despatched on horseback to Castle Boterel , and the gentleman known as Dr . 
Granson came in the course of the afternoon . 
He pronounced her nervous system to be in a decided state of disorder forwarded some soothing draught , and gave orders that on no account whatever was she to play chess again . 
The next morning Knight , much vexed with himself , waited with a curiously compounded feeling for her entry to breakfast . 
Mr. Swancourt began reading without waiting for her . 
Then somebody glided in noiselessly Knight softly glanced up it was only the little kitchen maid . 
Knight thought reading prayers a bore . 
He went out alone , and for almost the first time failed to recognize that holding converse with Nature's charms was not solitude . 
On nearing the house again he perceived his young friend crossing a slope by a path which ran into the one he was following in the angle of the field . 
Elfride was at once exultant and abashed coming into his presence had upon her the effect of entering a cathedral . 
Knight had his note book in his hand , and had , in fact , been in the very act of writing therein when they came in view of each other . 
He left off in the midst of a sentence , and proceeded to inquire warmly concerning her state of health . 
She said she was perfectly well , and indeed had never looked better . 
Her health was as inconsequent as her actions . 
Altogether she stood as the last person in the world to be knocked over by a game of chess , because too ephemeral looking to play one . 
'Are you taking notes ? she inquired with an alacrity plainly arising less from interest in the subject than from a wish to divert his thoughts from herself . 
'Yes I was making an entry . 
And with your permission I will complete it . 
Knight then stood still and wrote . 
Elfride remained beside him a moment , and afterwards walked on . 
'I should like to see all the secrets that are in that book , she gaily flung back to him over her shoulder . 
'I don't think you would find much to interest you . 
'Then of course I have no more to say . 
'But I would ask this question first . 
It consists for the most part of jottings for articles and essays , disjointed and disconnected , of no possible interest to anybody but myself . 
'It contains , I suppose , your developed thoughts in embryo ? 'Yes . 
'Rather like a balloon before it is inflated flabby , shapeless , dead . 
You could hardly read them . 
'May I try ? she said coaxingly . 
'I wrote my poor romance in that way I mean in bits , out of doors and I should like to see whether your way of entering things is the same as mine . 
'Really , that's rather an awkward request . 
I suppose I can hardly refuse now you have asked so directly but 'You think me ill mannered in asking . 
'Very well , Miss Swancourt . 
If you really must see , the consequences be upon your own head . 
Remember , my advice to you is to leave my book alone . 
'But with that caution I have your permission ? 'Yes . 
She hesitated a moment , looked at his hand containing the book , then laughed , and saying , 'I must see it , withdrew it from his fingers . 
Knight rambled on towards the house , leaving her standing in the path turning over the leaves . 
By the time he had reached the wicket gate he saw that she had moved , and waited till she came up . 
Elfride had closed the note book , and was carrying it disdainfully by the corner between her finger and thumb her face wore a nettled look . 
She silently extended the volume towards him , raising her eyes no higher than her hand was lifted . 
'Take it , said Elfride quickly . 
'I don't want to read it . 
'Could you understand it ? said Knight . 
'As far as I looked . 
But I didn't care to read much . 
'Why , Miss Swancourt ? 'Only because I didn't wish to that's all . 
'I warned you that you might not . 
'Yes , but I never supposed you would have put me there . 
'Your name is not mentioned once within the four corners . 
'Not my name I know that . 
'Nor your description , nor anything by which anybody would recognize you . 
For what is this ? she exclaimed , taking it from him and opening a page . 
That's the day before yesterday . 
But I won't read it , Elfride said , closing the book again with pretty hauteur . 
'Why should I ? I had no business to ask to see your hook , and it serves me right . 
Knight hardly recollected what he had written , and turned over the book to see . 
He came to this 'Aug . 
Girl gets into her teens , and her self consciousness is born . 
After a certain interval passed in infantine helplessness it begins to act . 
Simple , young , and inexperienced at first . 
Persons of observation can tell to a nicety how old this consciousness is by the skill it has acquired in the art necessary to its success the art of hiding itself . 
Generally begins career by actions which are popularly termed showing off . 
Method adopted depends in each case upon the disposition , rank , residence , of the young lady attempting it . 
Town bred girl will utter some moral paradox on fast men , or love . 
Country miss adopts the more material media of taking a ghastly fence , whistling , or making your blood run cold by appearing to risk her neck . 
'An innocent vanity is of course the origin of these displays . 
Look at me , say these youthful beginners in womanly artifice , without reflecting whether or not it be to their advantage to show so very much of themselves . 
'Yes , I remember now , said Knight . 
'The notes were certainly suggested by your manoeuvre on the church tower . 
But you must not think too much of such random observations , he continued encouragingly , as he noticed her injured looks . 
'A mere fancy passing through my head assumes a factitious importance to you , because it has been made permanent by being written down . 
All mankind think thoughts as bad as those of people they most love on earth , but such thoughts never getting embodied on paper , it becomes assumed that they never existed . 
I daresay that you yourself have thought some disagreeable thing or other of me , which would seem just as bad as this if written . 
I challenge you , now , to tell me . 
'The worst thing I have thought of you ? 'Yes . 
'I thought you were rather round shouldered . 
'And that there was a little bald spot on the top of your head . 
'Heh heh ! Two ineradicable defects , said Knight , there being a faint ghastliness discernible in his laugh . 
'They are much worse in a lady's eye than being thought self conscious , I suppose . 
'Ah , that's very fine , she said , too inexperienced to perceive her hit , and hence not quite disposed to forgive his notes . 
'You alluded to me in that entry as if I were such a child , too . 
I am quite a woman , you know . 
How old do you think I am ? 'How old ? Why , seventeen , I should say . 
So it was not Elfride's class . 
Youths and girls who are men and women before they come of age are nobodies by the time that backward people have shown their full compass . 
'Yes , said Knight thoughtfully . 
'There is really something in that remark . 
Her backwardness may be not because she is slow to develop , but because she soon exhausted her capacity for developing . 
By this time they were indoors . 
Mrs. Swancourt , to whom match making by any honest means was meat and drink , had now a little scheme of that nature concerning this pair . 
Knight went to the chimney piece , and carelessly surveyed two portraits on ivory . 
'Though these pink ladies had very rudimentary features , judging by what I see here , he observed , 'they had unquestionably beautiful heads of hair . 
'Yes and that is everything , said Elfride , possibly conscious of her own , possibly not . 
'Not everything though a great deal , certainly . 
'Which colour do you like best ? she ventured to ask . 
'More depends on its abundance than on its colour . 
'Abundances being equal , may I inquire your favourite colour ? 'Dark . 
'I mean for women , she said , with the minutest fall of countenance , and a hope that she had been misunderstood . 
'So do I , Knight replied . 
It was impossible for any man not to know the colour of Elfride's hair . 
In women who wear it plainly such a feature may be overlooked by men not given to ocular intentness . 
But hers was always in the way . 
You saw her hair as far as you could see her sex , and knew that it was the palest brown . 
She knew instantly that Knight , being perfectly aware of this , had an independent standard of admiration in the matter . 
She could not but be struck with the honesty of his opinions , and the worst of it was , that the more they went against her , the more she respected them . 
And now , like a reckless gambler , she hazarded her last and best treasure . 
Her eyes they were her all now . 
'What coloured eyes do you like best , Mr. Knight ? she said slowly . 
'I prefer hazel , he said serenely . 
She had played and lost again . 
Chapter XIX 'Love was in the next degree . 
Knight had none of those light familiarities of speech which , by judicious touches of epigrammatic flattery , obliterate a woman's recollection of the speaker's abstract opinions . 
So no more was said by either on the subject of hair , eyes , or development . 
Elfride's mind had been impregnated with sentiments of her own smallness to an uncomfortable degree of distinctness , and her discomfort was visible in her face . 
The whole tendency of the conversation latterly had been to quietly but surely disparage her and she was fain to take Stephen into favour in self defence . 
He would not have been so unloving , she said , as to admire an idiosyncrasy and features different from her own . 
True , Stephen had declared he loved her Mr. Knight had never done anything of the sort . 
Somehow this did not mend matters , and the sensation of her smallness in Knight's eyes still remained . 
As matters stood , Stephen's admiration might have its root in a blindness the result of passion . 
Perhaps any keen man's judgment was condemnatory of her . 
During the remainder of Saturday they were more or less thrown with their seniors , and no conversation arose which was exclusively their own . 
When Elfride was in bed that night her thoughts recurred to the same subject . 
At one moment she insisted that it was ill natured of him to speak so decisively as he had done the next , that it was sterling honesty . 
'Ah , what a poor nobody I am ! she said , sighing . 
'People like him , who go about the great world , don't care in the least what I am like either in mood or feature . 
Perhaps a man who has got thoroughly into a woman's mind in this manner , is half way to her heart the distance between those two stations is proverbially short . 
'And are you really going away this week ? said Mrs. Swancourt to Knight on the following evening , which was Sunday . 
'I am intending to cross to Cork from Bristol , returned Knight 'and then I go on to Dublin . 
'Return this way , and stay a little longer with us , said the vicar . 
We have hardly been able to realize your presence yet . 
I remember a story which The vicar suddenly stopped . 
He at once diverted the current of his narrative with the dexterity the occasion demanded . 
'But he had wasted five days already , said Knight , closing his eyes to the vicar's commendable diversion . 
'His fault lay in beginning the tarrying system originally . 
'True , true my illustration fails . 
'But not the hospitality which prompted the story . 
'So you are to come just the same , urged Mrs. Swancourt , for she had seen an almost imperceptible fall of countenance in her stepdaughter at Knight's announcement . 
The curate having already officiated twice that day in the two churches , Mr. Swancourt had undertaken the whole of the evening service , and Knight read the lessons for him . 
The sun streamed across from the dilapidated west window , and lighted all the assembled worshippers with a golden glow , Knight as he read being illuminated by the same mellow lustre . 
Elfride at the organ regarded him with a throbbing sadness of mood which was fed by a sense of being far removed from his sphere . 
It was the bleak barren countenance of the widow Jethway , whom Elfride had not seen much of since the morning of her return with Stephen Smith . 
She had not attended the service here for a considerable time , and she now seemed to have a reason for her choice of seat . 
From the gallery window the tomb of her son was plainly visible standing as the nearest object in a prospect which was closed outwardly by the changeless horizon of the sea . 
The girl resumed her normal attitude with an added disquiet . 
Elfride's emotion was cumulative , and after a while would assert itself on a sudden . 
A slight touch was enough to set it free a poem , a sunset , a cunningly contrived chord of music , a vague imagining , being the usual accidents of its exhibition . 
The longing for Knight's respect , which was leading up to an incipient yearning for his love , made the present conjuncture a sufficient one . 
Mr. and Mrs. Swancourt went off in the carriage , Knight and Elfride preferring to walk , as the skilful old matchmaker had imagined . 
They descended the hill together . 
'I liked your reading , Mr. Knight , Elfride presently found herself saying . 
'You read better than papa . 
'I will praise anybody that will praise me . 
You played excellently , Miss Swancourt , and very correctly . 
'It must be a great pleasure to you to take an active part in the service . 
'I want to be able to play with more feeling . 
But I have not a good selection of music , sacred or secular . 
I wish I had a nice little music library well chosen , and that the only new pieces sent me were those of genuine merit . 
'I am glad to hear such a wish from you . 
It is extraordinary how many women have no honest love of music as an end and not as a means , even leaving out those who have nothing in them . 
They mostly like it for its accessories . 
I have never met a woman who loves music as do ten or a dozen men I know . 
This is an instance I knew a man who had a young friend in whom he was much interested in fact , they were going to be married . 
She was seemingly poetical , and he offered her a choice of two editions of the British poets , which she pretended to want badly . 
Now I call her a girl with not much in her but vanity and so do you , I daresay . 
'Oh yes , replied Elfride with an effort . 
Happening to catch a glimpse of her face as she was speaking , and noticing that her attempt at heartiness was a miserable failure , he appeared to have misgivings . 
'You , Miss Swancourt , would not , under such circumstances , have preferred the nicknacks ? 'No , I don't think I should , indeed , she stammered . 
'I'll put it to you , said the inflexible Knight . 
'You are quite certain ? he said emphatically . 
'Quite , she faltered 'if I could for certain buy the earrings afterwards . 
Knight , somewhat blamably , keenly enjoyed sparring with the palpitating mobile creature , whose excitable nature made any such thing a species of cruelty . 
He looked at her rather oddly , and said , 'Fie ! 'Forgive me , she said , laughing a little , a little frightened , and blushing very deeply . 
'I thought you were exceptionally musical ? 'So I am , I think . 
But the test is so severe quite painful . 
I like the music best , only I like 'Earrings better own it ! he said in a teasing tone . 
'Well , I think I should have had the moral courage to own it at once , without pretending to an elevation I could not reach . 
Like the French soldiery , Elfride was not brave when on the defensive . 
'I am afraid I have been very harsh and rude , said Knight , with a look of regret at seeing how disturbed she was . 
'But seriously , if women only knew how they ruin their good looks by such appurtenances , I am sure they would never want them . 
'No they were not one of those things . 
So pretty like this , she said with eager animation . 
And she drew with the point of her parasol an enlarged view of one of the lamented darlings , to a scale that would have suited a giantess half a mile high . 
'Yes , very pretty very , said Knight dryly . 
'How did you come to lose such a precious pair of articles ? 'I only lost one nobody ever loses both at the same time . 
She made this remark with embarrassment , and a nervous movement of the fingers . 
Seeing that the loss occurred whilst Stephen Smith was attempting to kiss her for the first time on the cliff , her confusion was hardly to be wondered at . 
The question had been awkward , and received no direct answer . 
Knight seemed not to notice her manner . 
'Oh , nobody ever loses both I see . 
And certainly the fact that it was a case of loss takes away all odour of vanity from your choice . 
'As I never know whether you are in earnest , I don't now , she said , looking up inquiringly at the hairy face of the oracle . 
And coming gallantly to her own rescue , 'If I really seem vain , it is that I am only vain in my ways not in my heart . 
The worst women are those vain in their hearts , and not in their ways . 
Well , they are certainly the more objectionable of the two , said Knight . 
'Is vanity a mortal or a venial sin ? You know what life is tell me . 
'I am very far from knowing what life is . 
A just conception of life is too large a thing to grasp during the short interval of passing through it . 
'Will the fact of a woman being fond of jewellery be likely to make her life , in its higher sense , a failure ? 'Nobody's life is altogether a failure . 
'Well , you know what I mean , even though my words are badly selected and commonplace , she said impatiently . 
'Because I utter commonplace words , you must not suppose I think only commonplace thoughts . 
'Very well I'll believe that ingenious representation . 
As to the subject in hand lives which are failures you need not trouble yourself . 
Anybody's life may be just as romantic and strange and interesting if he or she fails as if he or she succeed . 
All the difference is , that the last chapter is wanting in the story . 
They were walking between the sunset and the moonrise . 
With the dropping of the sun a nearly full moon had begun to raise itself . 
Their shadows , as cast by the western glare , showed signs of becoming obliterated in the interest of a rival pair in the opposite direction which the moon was bringing to distinctness . 
'I consider my life to some extent a failure , said Knight again after a pause , during which he had noticed the antagonistic shadows . 
'You ! How ? 'I don't precisely know . 
But in some way I have missed the mark . 
'Really ? To have done it is not much to be sad about , but to feel that you have done it must be a cause of sorrow . 
Am I right ? 'Partly , though not quite . 
For a sensation of being profoundly experienced serves as a sort of consolation to people who are conscious of having taken wrong turnings . 
However , it is not desirable for me to chill your summer time by going into this . 
'You have not told me even now if I am really vain . 
'If I say Yes , I shall offend you if I say No , you'll think I don't mean it , he replied , looking curiously into her face . 
Think me vain , if you will . 
Worldly greatness requires so much littleness to grow up in , that an infirmity more or less is not a matter for regret . 
A high soul will bring a man to the workhouse so you may be right in sticking up for vanity . 
'No , no , I don't do that , she said regretfully . 
Elfride flung back her head , and said idly 'There's a bright star exactly over me . 
'Each bright star is overhead somewhere . 
'Is it ? Oh yes , of course . 
Where is that one ? and she pointed with her finger . 
'That is poised like a white hawk over one of the Cape Verde Islands . 
'And that ? 'Looking down upon the source of the Nile . 
'And that lonely quiet looking one ? 'He watches the North Pole , and has no less than the whole equator for his horizon . 
Elfride glanced at Knight with misgiving . 
Did he mean her ? She could not see his features but his attitude seemed to show unconsciousness . 
'The star is over MY head , she said with hesitation . 
'Or anybody else's in England . 
'Oh yes , I see she breathed her relief . 
'His parents , I believe , are natives of this county . 
I don't know them , though I have been in correspondence with him for many years till lately . 
Fortunately or unfortunately for him he fell in love , and then went to Bombay . 
Since that time I have heard very little of him . 
There seemed a reproach in Knight's blind words , and yet she was not able to clearly define any disloyalty that she had been guilty of . 
Chapter XX 'A distant dearness in the hill . 
Knight turned his back upon the parish of Endelstow , and crossed over to Cork . 
One day of absence superimposed itself on another , and proportionately weighted his heart . 
Whilst in the company of Elfride , her girlish presence had not perceptibly affected him to any depth . 
He had not been conscious that her entry into his sphere had added anything to himself but now that she was taken away he was very conscious of a great deal being abstracted . 
The superfluity had become a necessity , and Knight was in love . 
Stephen fell in love with Elfride by looking at her Knight by ceasing to do so . 
Had he begun to love her when she met his eye after her mishap on the tower ? He had simply thought her weak . 
Had he grown to love her whilst standing on the lawn brightened all over by the evening sun ? He had thought her complexion good no more . 
Was it her conversation that had sown the seed ? He had thought her words ingenious , and very creditable to a young woman , but not noteworthy . 
Had the chess playing anything to do with it ? Certainly not he had thought her at that time a rather conceited child . 
Not till they were parted , and she had become sublimated in his memory , could he be said to have even attentively regarded her . 
He became restless then he forgot all collateral subjects in the pleasure of thinking about her . 
Yet it must be said that Knight loved philosophically rather than with romance . 
He thought of her manner towards him . 
Was she flirting ? he said to himself . 
No forcible translation of favour into suspicion was able to uphold such a theory . 
The performance had been too well done to be anything but real . 
It had the defects without which nothing is genuine . 
She had the little artful ways which partly make up ingenuousness . 
There are bachelors by nature and bachelors by circumstance spinsters there doubtless are also of both kinds , though some think only those of the latter . 
However , Knight had been looked upon as a bachelor by nature . 
He was intensely satisfied with one aspect of the affair . 
Inbred in him was an invincible objection to be any but the first comer in a woman's heart . 
Knight's sentiments were only the ordinary ones of a man of his age who loves genuinely , perhaps exaggerated a little by his pursuits . 
When men first love as lads , it is with the very centre of their hearts , nothing else being concerned in the operation . 
With added years , more of the faculties attempt a partnership in the passion , till at Knight's age the understanding is fain to have a hand in it . 
It may as well be left out . 
A man in love setting up his brains as a gauge of his position is as one determining a ship's longitude from a light at the mast head . 
Knight argued from Elfride's unwontedness of manner , which was matter of fact , to an unwontedness in love , which was matter of inference only . 
'Elfride , he said , 'had hardly looked upon a man till she saw me . 
But the day before leaving Dublin he looked around anxiously for a high class jewellery establishment , in which he purchased what he considered would suit her best . 
A sudden fastidious decision that the pattern chosen would not suit her after all caused him to rise in a flurry and tear down the street to change them for others . 
During the remainder of that day he scanned the ornaments of every lady he met with the profoundly experienced eye of an appraiser . 
Next morning Knight was again crossing St . 
We flit forward to Elfride . 
Woman's ruling passion to fascinate and influence those more powerful than she though operant in Elfride , was decidedly purposeless . 
She had wanted her friend Knight's good opinion from the first how much more than that elementary ingredient of friendship she now desired , her fears would hardly allow her to think . 
In originally wishing to please the highest class of man she had ever intimately known , there was no disloyalty to Stephen Smith . 
She could not and few women can realize the possible vastness of an issue which has only an insignificant begetting . 
Her letters from Stephen were necessarily few , and her sense of fidelity clung to the last she had received as a wrecked mariner clings to flotsam . 
She beguiled herself by saying , 'Perhaps if I had not so committed myself I might fall in love with Mr. Knight . 
All this made the week of Knight's absence very gloomy and distasteful to her . 
She retained Stephen in her prayers , and his old letters were re read as a medicine in reality , though she deceived herself into the belief that it was as a pleasure . 
These letters had grown more and more hopeful . 
He told her that he finished his work every day with a pleasant consciousness of having removed one more stone from the barrier which divided them . 
Then he drew images of what a fine figure they two would cut some day . 
People would turn their heads and say , 'What a prize he has won ! She was not to be sad about that wild runaway attempt of theirs . 
Whatever any other person who knew of it might think , he knew well enough the modesty of her nature . 
The only reproach was a gentle one for not having written quite so devotedly during her visit to London . 
Her letter had seemed to have a liveliness derived from other thoughts than thoughts of him . 
Knight's intention of an early return to Endelstow having originally been faint , his promise to do so had been fainter . 
He was a man who kept his words well to the rear of his possible actions . 
The vicar was rather surprised to see him again so soon Mrs. Swancourt was not . 
Knight found , on meeting them all , after his arrival had been announced , that they had formed an intention to go to St . 
Leonards for a few days at the end of the month . 
No satisfactory conjuncture offered itself on this first evening of his return for presenting Elfride with what he had been at such pains to procure . 
He was fastidious in his reading of opportunities for such an intended act . 
Knight scented romantic occasions from afar , and foresaw that such a one might be expected before the coming night . 
The journey was along a road by neutral green hills , upon which hedgerows lay trailing like ropes on a quay . 
Then they rolled down a pass , the chocolate toned rocks forming a wall on both sides , from one of which fell a heavy jagged shade over half the roadway . 
A spout of fresh water burst from an occasional crevice , and pattering down upon broad green leaves , ran along as a rivulet at the bottom . 
Unkempt locks of heather overhung the brow of each steep , whence at divers points a bramble swung forth into mid air , snatching at their head dresses like a claw . 
They mounted the last crest , and the bay which was to be the end of their pilgrimage burst upon them . 
The shadowed hollows of the purple and brown rocks would have been called blue had not that tint been so entirely appropriated by the water beside them . 
The carriage was put up at a little cottage with a shed attached , and an ostler and the coachman carried the hamper of provisions down to the shore . 
'I did not forget your wish , he began , when they were apart from their friends . 
Elfride looked as if she did not understand . 
'And I have brought you these , he continued , awkwardly pulling out the case , and opening it while holding it towards her . 
'O Mr. Knight ! said Elfride confusedly , and turning to a lively red 'I didn't know you had any intention or meaning in what you said . 
I thought it a mere supposition . 
A thought which had flashed into her mind gave the reply a greater decisiveness than it might otherwise have possessed . 
To morrow was the day for Stephen's letter . 
'But will you not accept them ? Knight returned , feeling less her master than heretofore . 
They are beautiful more beautiful than any I have ever seen , she answered earnestly , looking half wishfully at the temptation , as Eve may have looked at the apple . 
'But I don't want to have them , if you will kindly forgive me , Mr. Knight . 
'No kindness at all , said Mr. Knight , brought to a full stop at this unexpected turn of events . 
'Shut them up , and don't let me see them any longer do ! she said laughingly , and with a quaint mixture of reluctance and entreaty . 
'Why , Elfie ? 'Not Elfie to you , Mr. Knight . 
Oh , because I shall want them . 
There , I am silly , I know , to say that ! But I have a reason for not taking them now . 
She kept in the last word for a moment , intending to imply that her refusal was finite , but somehow the word slipped out , and undid all the rest . 
'You will take them some day ? 'I don't want to . 
'Why don't you want to , Elfride Swancourt ? 'Because I don't . 
I don't like to take them . 
'I have read a fact of distressing significance in that , said Knight . 
'Since you like them , your dislike to having them must be towards me ? 'No , it isn't . 
'What , then ? Do you like me ? Elfride deepened in tint , and looked into the distance with features shaped to an expression of the nicest criticism as regarded her answer . 
'I like you pretty well , she at length murmured mildly . 
'Not very much ? 'You are so sharp with me , and say hard things , and so how can I ? she replied evasively . 
'You think me a fogey , I suppose ? 'No , I don't I mean I do I don't know what I think you , I mean . 
Let us go to papa , responded Elfride , with somewhat of a flurried delivery . 
'You see it was the very least I could do in common civility . 
Elfride felt rather blank at this lucid statement . 
Elfride was sorry she could not tell why that he gave such a legitimate reason . 
It was a disappointment that he had all the time a cool motive , which might be stated to anybody without raising a smile . 
Had she known they were offered in that spirit , she would certainly have accepted the seductive gift . 
And the tantalizing feature was that perhaps he suspected her to imagine them offered as a lover's token , which was mortifying enough if they were not . 
He read her refusal so certainly as the bashfulness of a girl in a novel position , that , upon the whole , he could tolerate such a beginning . 
At the same time a slight constraint of manner was visible between them for the remainder of the afternoon . 
The tide turned , and they were obliged to ascend to higher ground . 
The day glided on to its end with the usual quiet dreamy passivity of such occasions when every deed done and thing thought is in endeavouring to avoid doing and thinking more . 
Looking idly over the verge of a crag , they beheld their stone dining table gradually being splashed upon and their crumbs and fragments all washed away by the incoming sea . 
The vicar drew a moral lesson from the scene Knight replied in the same satisfied strain . 
The passing of a heavy shower was the next scene driving them to shelter in a shallow cave after which the horses were put in , and they started to return homeward . 
By the time they reached the higher levels the sky had again cleared , and the sunset rays glanced directly upon the wet uphill road they had climbed . 
The ruts formed by their carriage wheels on the ascent a pair of Liliputian canals were as shining bars of gold , tapering to nothing in the distance . 
Upon this also they turned their backs , and night spread over the sea . 
The evening was chilly , and there was no moon . 
Knight sat close to Elfride , and , when the darkness rendered the position of a person a matter of uncertainty , particularly close . 
'I hope you allow me my place ungrudgingly ? he whispered . 
'Oh yes 'tis the least I can do in common civility , she said , accenting the words so that he might recognize them as his own returned . 
Both of them felt delicately balanced between two possibilities . 
To Knight this mild experience was delightful . 
He is not inconveniently deep in love , and is lulled by a peaceful sense of being able to enjoy the most trivial thing with a childlike enjoyment . 
The movement of a wave , the colour of a stone , anything , was enough for Knight's drowsy thoughts of that day to precipitate themselves upon . 
Even the sermonizing platitudes the vicar had delivered himself of chiefly because something seemed to be professionally required of him in the presence of a man of Knight's proclivities were swallowed whole . 
Entering her room that evening Elfride found a packet for herself on the dressing table . 
How it came there she did not know . 
She tremblingly undid the folds of white paper that covered it . 
Yes it was the treasure of a morocco case , containing those treasures of ornament she had refused in the daytime . 
Elfride dressed herself in them for a moment , looked at herself in the glass , blushed red , and put them away . 
They filled her dreams all that night . 
Never had she seen anything so lovely , and never was it more clear that as an honest woman she was in duty bound to refuse them . 
Why it was not equally clear to her that duty required more vigorous co ordinate conduct as well , let those who dissect her say . 
The next morning glared in like a spectre upon her . 
One was from the bank at St . 
Launce's , in which she had a small private deposit probably something about interest . 
She put that in her pocket for a moment , and going indoors and upstairs to be safer from observation , tremblingly opened Stephen's . 
What was this he said to her ? She was to go to the St . 
Launce's Bank and take a sum of money which they had received private advices to pay her . 
The sum was two hundred pounds . 
There was no check , order , or anything of the nature of guarantee . 
In fact the information amounted to this the money was now in the St . 
Launce's Bank , standing in her name . 
She instantly opened the other letter . 
It contained a deposit note from the bank for the sum of two hundred pounds which had that day been added to her account . 
Stephen's information , then , was correct , and the transfer made . 
Should you not be disposed to let it lie idle in the bank , get your father to invest it in your name on good security . 
It is a little present to you from your more than betrothed . 
He will , I think , Elfride , feel now that my pretensions to your hand are anything but the dream of a silly boy not worth rational consideration . 
With a natural delicacy , Elfride , in mentioning her father's marriage , had refrained from all allusion to the pecuniary resources of the lady . 
The smallest piece of mat is the bed of the Oriental , and yesterday I saw a native perform the very action , which reminded me to mention it . 
But you are better read than I , and perhaps you knew all this long ago . 
'Speaking of this reminds me that we are obliged to import all our house building ironwork from England . 
Never was such foresight required to be exercised in building houses as here . 
Before we begin , we have to order every column , lock , hinge , and screw that will be required . 
We cannot go into the next street , as in London , and get them cast at a minute's notice . 
Mr. L. says somebody will have to go to England very soon and superintend the selection of a large order of this kind . 
I only wish I may be the man . 
There before her lay the deposit receipt for the two hundred pounds , and beside it the elegant present of Knight . 
Elfride grew cold then her cheeks felt heated by beating blood . 
If by destroying the piece of paper the whole transaction could have been withdrawn from her experience , she would willingly have sacrificed the money it represented . 
She did not know what to do in either case . 
She almost feared to let the two articles lie in juxtaposition so antagonistic were the interests they represented that a miraculous repulsion of one by the other was almost to be expected . 
That day she was seen little of . 
By the evening she had come to a resolution , and acted upon it . 
The packet was sealed up with a tear of regret as she closed the case upon the pretty forms it contained directed , and placed upon the writing table in Knight's room . 
After this letter had been written she delayed posting it although never ceasing to feel strenuously that the deed must be done . 
There was another Indian letter for Elfride . 
Coming unexpectedly , her father saw it , but made no remark why , she could not tell . 
The news this time was absolutely overwhelming . 
Stephen , as he had wished , had been actually chosen as the most fitting to execute the iron work commission he had alluded to as impending . 
This duty completed he would have three months' leave . 
His letter continued that he should follow it in a week , and should take the opportunity to plainly ask her father to permit the engagement . 
Elfride lived and moved now as in a dream . 
Knight had at first become almost angry at her persistent refusal of his offering and no less with the manner than the fact of it . 
But he saw that she began to look worn and ill and his vexation lessened to simple perplexity . 
He ceased now to remain in the house for long hours together as before , but made it a mere centre for antiquarian and geological excursions in the neighbourhood . 
Throw up his cards and go away he fain would have done , but could not . 
And , thus , availing himself of the privileges of a relative , he went in and out the premises as fancy led him but still lingered on . 
'I don't wish to stay here another day if my presence is distasteful , he said one afternoon . 
'At first you used to imply that I was severe with you and when I am kind you treat me unfairly . 
The origin of their acquaintanceship had been such as to render their manner towards each other peculiar and uncommon . 
It was of a kind to cause them to speak out their minds on any feelings of objection and difference to be reticent on gentler matters . 
'I have a good mind to go away and never trouble you again , continued Knight . 
She said nothing , but the eloquent expression of her eyes and wan face was enough to reproach him for harshness . 
'Do you like me to be here , then ? inquired Knight gently . 
Fidelity to the old love and truth to the new were ranged on opposite sides , and truth virtuelessly prevailed . 
'Then I'll stay a little longer , said Knight . 
'Don't be vexed if I keep by myself a good deal , will you ? Perhaps something may happen , and I may tell you something . 
'Mere coyness , said Knight to himself and went away with a lighter heart . 
The next evening , about five o'clock , before Knight had returned from a pilgrimage along the shore , a man walked up to the house . 
He was a messenger from Camelton , a town a few miles off , to which place the railway had been advanced during the summer . 
'A telegram for Miss Swancourt , and three and sixpence to pay for the special messenger . 
Miss Swancourt sent out the money , signed the paper , and opened her letter with a trembling hand . 
She read 'Johnson , Liverpool , to Miss Swancourt , Endelstow , near Castle Boterel . 
'Amaryllis telegraphed off Holyhead , four o'clock . 
Expect will dock and land passengers at Canning's Basin ten o'clock to morrow morning . 
Her father called her into the study . 
'Elfride , who sent you that message ? he asked suspiciously . 
'Who is Johnson , for Heaven's sake ? 'I don't know . 
'The deuce you don't ! Who is to know , then ? 'I have never heard of him till now . 
'That's a singular story , isn't it . 
'Come , come , miss ! What was the telegram ? 'Do you really wish to know , papa ? 'Well , I do . 
'Remember , I am a full grown woman now . 
'Well , what then ? 'Being a woman , and not a child , I may , I think , have a secret or two . 
'You will , it seems . 
'Women have , as a rule . 
'If you will not press me now , I give my word to tell you the meaning of all this before the week is past . 
'On your honour ? 'On my honour . 
I have had a certain suspicion , you know and I shall be glad to find it false . 
I don't like your manner lately . 
'At the end of the week , I said , papa . 
Her father did not reply , and Elfride left the room . 
She began to look out for the postman again . 
Three mornings later he brought an inland letter from Stephen . 
It contained very little matter , having been written in haste but the meaning was bulky enough . 
He proposed this plan because he thought it unadvisable to call formally at her house so late in the evening yet he could not sleep without having seen her . 
The minutes would seem hours till he clasped her in his arms . 
Elfride was still steadfast in her opinion that honour compelled her to meet him . 
And she knew it so well that her intellect was inclined to exaggerate this defect in herself . 
But she began to take a melancholy pleasure in contemplating the sacrifice of herself to the man whom a maidenly sense of propriety compelled her to regard as her only possible husband . 
She would meet him , and do all that lay in her power to marry him . 
To guard against a relapse , a note was at once despatched to his father's cottage for Stephen on his arrival , fixing an hour for the interview . 
He did not know of the extension of the railway to Camelton . 
During the afternoon a thought occurred to Elfride , that from any cliff along the shore it would be possible to see the steamer some hours before its arrival . 
She had accumulated religious force enough to do an act of supererogation . 
The act was this to go to some point of land and watch for the ship that brought her future husband home . 
It was a cloudy afternoon . 
Now , her mood was such that the humid sky harmonized with it . 
Having ascended and passed over a hill behind the house , Elfride came to a small stream . 
She used it as a guide to the coast . 
It was smaller than that in her own valley , and flowed altogether at a higher level . 
Bushes lined the slopes of its shallow trough but at the bottom , where the water ran , was a soft green carpet , in a strip two or three yards wide . 
In winter , the water flowed over the grass in summer , as now , it trickled along a channel in the midst . 
Elfride had a sensation of eyes regarding her from somewhere . 
She turned , and there was Mr. Knight . 
He had dropped into the valley from the side of the hill . 
She felt a thrill of pleasure , and rebelliously allowed it to exist . 
'What utter loneliness to find you in ! 'I am going to the shore by tracking the stream . 
I believe it empties itself not far off , in a silver thread of water , over a cascade of great height . 
'Why do you load yourself with that heavy telescope ? 'To look over the sea with it , she said faintly . 
'I'll carry it for you to your journey's end . 
And he took the glass from her unresisting hands . 
'It cannot be half a mile further . 
See , there is the water . 
He pointed to a short fragment of level muddy gray colour , cutting against the sky . 
Elfride had already scanned the small surface of ocean visible , and had seen no ship . 
They walked along in company , sometimes with the brook between them for it was no wider than a man's stride sometimes close together . 
The green carpet grew swampy , and they kept higher up . 
One of the two ridges between which they walked dwindled lower and became insignificant . 
That on the right hand rose with their advance , and terminated in a clearly defined edge against the light , as if it were abruptly sawn off . 
A little further , and the bed of the rivulet ended in the same fashion . 
They had come to a bank breast high , and over it the valley was no longer to be seen . 
It was withdrawn cleanly and completely . 
In its place was sky and boundless atmosphere and perpendicularly down beneath them small and far off lay the corrugated surface of the Atlantic . 
The small stream here found its death . 
Running over the precipice it was dispersed in spray before it was half way down , and falling like rain upon projecting ledges , made minute grassy meadows of them . 
At the bottom the water drops soaked away amid the debris of the cliff . 
This was the inglorious end of the river . 
'What are you looking for ? said Knight , following the direction of her eyes . 
She was gazing hard at a black object nearer to the shore than to the horizon from the summit of which came a nebulous haze , stretching like gauze over the sea . 
'The Puffin , a little summer steamboat from Bristol to Castle Boterel , she said . 
'I think that is it look . 
Will you give me the glass ? Knight pulled open the old fashioned but powerful telescope , and handed it to Elfride , who had looked on with heavy eyes . 
'I can't keep it up now , she said . 
'Rest it on my shoulder . 
You may look instead , she murmured weakly . 
Knight raised the glass to his eye , and swept the sea till the Puffin entered its field . 
'Yes , it is the Puffin a tiny craft . 
I can see her figure head distinctly a bird with a beak as big as its head . 
'Can you see the deck ? Wait a minute yes , pretty clearly . 
And I can see the black forms of the passengers against its white surface . 
One of them has taken something from another a glass , I think yes , it is and he is levelling it in this direction . 
Depend upon it we are conspicuous objects against the sky to them . 
Now , it seems to rain upon them , and they put on overcoats and open umbrellas . 
They vanish and go below all but that one who has borrowed the glass . 
He is a slim young fellow , and still watches us . 
Elfride grew pale , and shifted her little feet uneasily . 
'I think we had better return , he said . 
'That cloud which is raining on them may soon reach us . 
Why , you look ill . 
How is that ? 'Something in the air affects my face . 
'Those fair cheeks are very fastidious , I fear , returned Knight tenderly . 
'This air would make those rosy that were never so before , one would think eh , Nature's spoilt child ? Elfride's colour returned again . 
'There is more to see behind us , after all , said Knight . 
The composition of the huge hill was revealed to its backbone and marrow here at its rent extremity . 
It consisted of a vast stratification of blackish gray slate , unvaried in its whole height by a single change of shade . 
It is with cliffs and mountains as with persons they have what is called a presence , which is not necessarily proportionate to their actual bulk . 
A little cliff will impress you powerfully a great one not at all . 
It depends , as with man , upon the countenance of the cliff . 
'I cannot bear to look at that cliff , said Elfride . 
'It has a horrid personality , and makes me shudder . 
'Can you climb ? said Knight . 
'If so , we will ascend by that path over the grim old fellow's brow . 
'Try me , said Elfride disdainfully . 
'I have ascended steeper slopes than that . 
'Take my arm , Miss Swancourt , said Knight . 
'I can get on better without it , thank you . 
When they were one quarter of the way up , Elfride stopped to take breath . 
Knight stretched out his hand . 
She took it , and they ascended the remaining slope together . 
Reaching the very top , they sat down to rest by mutual consent . 
'Heavens , what an altitude ! said Knight between his pants , and looking far over the sea . 
The cascade at the bottom of the slope appeared a mere span in height from where they were now . 
Elfride was looking to the left . 
The steamboat was in full view again , and by reason of the vast surface of sea their higher position uncovered it seemed almost close to the shore . 
'Over that edge , said Knight , 'where nothing but vacancy appears , is a moving compact mass . 
In fact , an inverted cascade is there as perfect as the Niagara Falls but rising instead of falling , and air instead of water . 
Knight threw a stone over the bank , aiming it as if to go onward over the cliff . 
Reaching the verge , it towered into the air like a bird , turned back , and alighted on the ground behind them . 
They themselves were in a dead calm . 
'A boat crosses Niagara immediately at the foot of the falls , where the water is quite still , the fallen mass curving under it . 
We are in precisely the same position with regard to our atmospheric cataract here . 
If you run back from the cliff fifty yards , you will be in a brisk wind . 
Now I daresay over the bank is a little backward current . 
Knight rose and leant over the bank . 
No sooner was his head above it than his hat appeared to be sucked from his head slipping over his forehead in a seaward direction . 
'That's the backward eddy , as I told you , he cried , and vanished over the little bank after his hat . 
Elfride waited one minute he did not return . 
She waited another , and there was no sign of him . 
A few drops of rain fell , then a sudden shower . 
She arose , and looked over the bank . 
On the other side were two or three yards of level ground then a short steep preparatory slope then the verge of the precipice . 
On the slope was Knight , his hat on his head . 
He was on his hands and knees , trying to climb back to the level ground . 
The rain had wetted the shaly surface of the incline . 
A slight superficial wetting of the soil hereabout made it far more slippery to stand on than the same soil thoroughly drenched . 
The inner substance was still hard , and was lubricated by the moistened film . 
'I find a difficulty in getting back , said Knight . 
Elfride's heart fell like lead . 
'But you can get back ? she wildly inquired . 
Knight strove with all his might for two or three minutes , and the drops of perspiration began to bead his brow . 
'No , I am unable to do it , he answered . 
Elfride , by a wrench of thought , forced away from her mind the sensation that Knight was in bodily danger . 
But attempt to help him she must . 
She ventured upon the treacherous incline , propped herself with the closed telescope , and gave him her hand before he saw her movements . 
'O Elfride ! why did you ? said he . 
'I am afraid you have only endangered yourself . 
And as if to prove his statement , in making an endeavour by her assistance they both slipped lower , and then he was again stayed . 
His foot was propped by a bracket of quartz rock , balanced on the verge of the precipice . 
Fixed by this , he steadied her , her head being about a foot below the beginning of the slope . 
Elfride had dropped the glass it rolled to the edge and vanished over it into a nether sky . 
'Hold tightly to me , he said . 
She flung her arms round his neck with such a firm grasp that whilst he remained it was impossible for her to fall . 
'Don't be flurried , Knight continued . 
'So long as we stay above this block we are perfectly safe . 
Wait a moment whilst I consider what we had better do . 
He turned his eyes to the dizzy depths beneath them , and surveyed the position of affairs . 
Two glances told him a tale with ghastly distinctness . 
It was that , unless they performed their feat of getting up the slope with the precision of machines , they were over the edge and whirling in mid air . 
For this purpose it was necessary that he should recover the breath and strength which his previous efforts had cost him . 
So he still waited , and looked in the face of the enemy . 
The crest of this terrible natural facade passed among the neighbouring inhabitants as being seven hundred feet above the water it overhung . 
It had been proved by actual measurement to be not a foot less than six hundred and fifty . 
Aldhelm's , thrice as high as the Lizard , and just double the height of St . 
One sea bord point on the western coast is known to surpass it in altitude , but only by a few feet . 
This is Great Orme's Head , in Caernarvonshire . 
And it must be remembered that the cliff exhibits an intensifying feature which some of those are without sheer perpendicularity from the half tide level . 
Yet this remarkable rampart forms no headland it rather walls in an inlet the promontory on each side being much lower . 
Thus , far from being salient , its horizontal section is concave . 
Not least singularly , neither hill , chasm , nor precipice has a name . 
On this account I will call the precipice the Cliff without a Name . 
See Preface What gave an added terror to its height was its blackness . 
And upon this dark face the beating of ten thousand west winds had formed a kind of bloom , which had a visual effect not unlike that of a Hambro' grape . 
Moreover it seemed to float off into the atmosphere , and inspire terror through the lungs . 
'This piece of quartz , supporting my feet , is on the very nose of the cliff , said Knight , breaking the silence after his rigid stoical meditation . 
'Now what you are to do is this . 
Clamber up my body till your feet are on my shoulders when you are there you will , I think , be able to climb on to level ground . 
'What will you do ? 'Wait whilst you run for assistance . 
But don't let us talk . 
Be brave , Elfride , and climb . 
She prepared to ascend , saying , 'This is the moment I anticipated when on the tower . 
I thought it would come ! 'This is not a time for superstition , said Knight . 
'I will , she said humbly . 
'Now put your foot into my hand next the other . 
She placed her feet upon the stirrup he made of his hand , and was high enough to get a view of the natural surface of the hill over the bank . 
'Can you now climb on to level ground ? 'I am afraid not . 
'What can you see ? 'The sloping common . 
'What upon it ? 'Purple heather and some grass . 
'Nothing more no man or human being of any kind ? 'Nobody . 
'Now try to get higher in this way . 
You see that tuft of sea pink above you . 
Get that well into your hand , but don't trust to it entirely . 
Then step upon my shoulder , and I think you will reach the top . 
With trembling limbs she did exactly as he told her . 
The preternatural quiet and solemnity of his manner overspread upon herself , and gave her a courage not her own . 
She made a spring from the top of his shoulder , and was up . 
Then she turned to look at him . 
By an ill fate , the force downwards of her bound , added to his own weight , had been too much for the block of quartz upon which his feet depended . 
Knight seized a tuft of sea pink with each hand . 
The quartz rock which had been his salvation was worse than useless now . 
It rolled over , out of sight , and away into the same nether sky that had engulfed the telescope . 
One of the tufts by which he held came out at the root , and Knight began to follow the quartz . 
It was a terrible moment . 
Elfride uttered a low wild wail of agony , bowed her head , and covered her face with her hands . 
Between the turf covered slope and the gigantic perpendicular rock intervened a weather worn series of jagged edges , forming a face yet steeper than the former slope . 
It arrested his further descent . 
In spite of this dreadful tension of body and mind , Knight found time for a moment of thankfulness . 
She lay on her side above him her fingers clasped . 
Seeing him again steady , she jumped upon her feet . 
'Now , if I can only save you by running for help ! she cried . 
'Oh , I would have died instead ! Why did you try so hard to deliver me ? And she turned away wildly to run for assistance . 
'Elfride , how long will it take you to run to Endelstow and back ? 'Three quarters of an hour . 
'That won't do my hands will not hold out ten minutes . 
And is there nobody nearer ? 'No unless a chance passer may happen to be . 
'He would have nothing with him that could save me . 
Is there a pole or stick of any kind on the common ? She gazed around . 
The common was bare of everything but heather and grass . 
A minute perhaps more time was passed in mute thought by both . 
On a sudden the blank and helpless agony left her face . 
She vanished over the bank from his sight . 
Knight felt himself in the presence of a personalized lonliness . 
Chapter XXII 'A woman's way . 
Their summits are not safe places for scientific experiment on the principles of air currents , as Knight had now found , to his dismay . 
He reclined hand in hand with the world in its infancy . 
Not a blade , not an insect , which spoke of the present , was between him and the past . 
Knight pondered on the meaning of Elfride's hasty disappearance , but could not avoid an instinctive conclusion that there existed but a doubtful hope for him . 
As far as he could judge , his sole chance of deliverance lay in the possibility of a rope or pole being brought and this possibility was remote indeed . 
At first , when death appeared improbable , because it had never visited him before , Knight could think of no future , nor of anything connected with his past . 
He could only look sternly at Nature's treacherous attempt to put an end to him , and strive to thwart her . 
He looked far down the facade , and realized more thoroughly how it threatened him . 
Grimness was in every feature , and to its very bowels the inimical shape was desolation . 
It was a creature with eyes . 
The eyes , dead and turned to stone , were even now regarding him . 
It was one of the early crustaceans called Trilobites . 
Separated by millions of years in their lives , Knight and this underling seemed to have met in their death . 
It was the single instance within reach of his vision of anything that had ever been alive and had had a body to save , as he himself had now . 
Zoophytes , mollusca , shell fish , were the highest developments of those ancient dates . 
The immense lapses of time each formation represented had known nothing of the dignity of man . 
They were grand times , but they were mean times too , and mean were their relics . 
He was to be with the small in his death . 
There is no place like a cleft landscape for bringing home such imaginings as these . 
Time closed up like a fan before him . 
He saw himself at one extremity of the years , face to face with the beginning and all the intermediate centuries simultaneously . 
They lived in hollows , woods , and mud huts perhaps in caves of the neighbouring rocks . 
Behind them stood an earlier band . 
Huge elephantine forms , the mastodon , the hippopotamus , the tapir , antelopes of monstrous size , the megatherium , and the myledon all , for the moment , in juxtaposition . 
Further back , and overlapped by these , were perched huge billed birds and swinish creatures as large as horses . 
Still more shadowy were the sinister crocodilian outlines alligators and other uncouth shapes , culminating in the colossal lizard , the iguanodon . 
These images passed before Knight's inner eye in less than half a minute , and he was again considering the actual present . 
Was he to die ? The mental picture of Elfride in the world , without himself to cherish her , smote his heart like a whip . 
He had hoped for deliverance , but what could a girl do ? He dared not move an inch . 
Was Death really stretching out his hand ? The previous sensation , that it was improbable he would die , was fainter now . 
However , Knight still clung to the cliff . 
Man's case is always that of the prodigal's favourite or the miser's pensioner . 
In her unfriendly moments there seems a feline fun in her tricks , begotten by a foretaste of her pleasure in swallowing the victim . 
Such a way of thinking had been absurd to Knight , but he began to adopt it now . 
He was first spitted on to a rock . 
The rain increased , and persecuted him with an exceptional persistency which he was moved to believe owed its cause to the fact that he was in such a wretched state already . 
An entirely new order of things could be observed in this introduction of rain upon the scene . 
It rained upwards instead of down . 
The strong ascending air carried the rain drops with it in its race up the escarpment , coming to him with such velocity that they stuck into his flesh like cold needles . 
Each drop was virtually a shaft , and it pierced him to his skin . 
The water shafts seemed to lift him on their points no downward rain ever had such a torturing effect . 
In a brief space he was drenched , except in two places . 
These were on the top of his shoulders and on the crown of his hat . 
The wind , though not intense in other situations was strong here . 
It tugged at his coat and lifted it . 
Here , at any rate , hostility did not assume that slow and sickening form . 
It was a cosmic agency , active , lashing , eager for conquest determination not an insensate standing in the way . 
Knight had over estimated the strength of his hands . 
They were getting weak already . 
'She will never come again she has been gone ten minutes , he said to himself . 
This mistake arose from the unusual compression of his experiences just now she had really been gone but three . 
'As many more minutes will be my end , he thought . 
Next came another instance of the incapacity of the mind to make comparisons at such times . 
'This is a summer afternoon , he said , 'and there can never have been such a heavy and cold rain on a summer day in my life before . 
The rain was quite ordinary in quantity the air in temperature . 
It was , as is usual , the menacing attitude in which they approached him that magnified their powers . 
He again looked straight downwards , the wind and the water dashes lifting his moustache , scudding up his cheeks , under his eyelids , and into his eyes . 
We colour according to our moods the objects we survey . 
The sea would have been a deep neutral blue , had happier auspices attended the gazer it was now no otherwise than distinctly black to his vision . 
That narrow white border was foam , he knew well but its boisterous tosses were so distant as to appear a pulsation only , and its plashing was barely audible . 
A white border to a black sea his funeral pall and its edging . 
The world was to some extent turned upside down for him . 
Beneath his feet was aerial space and the unknown above him was the firm , familiar ground , and upon it all that he loved best . 
Pitiless nature had then two voices , and two only . 
The nearer was the voice of the wind in his ears rising and falling as it mauled and thrust him hard or softly . 
The second and distant one was the moan of that unplummetted ocean below and afar rubbing its restless flank against the Cliff without a Name . 
Had he any faith in Elfride ? Perhaps . 
Love is faith , and faith , like a gathered flower , will rootlessly live on . 
Nobody would have expected the sun to shine on such an evening as this . 
Yet it appeared , low down upon the sea . 
Most men who have brains know it , and few are so foolish as to disguise this fact from themselves or others , even though an ostentatious display may be called self conceit . 
Knight , without showing it much , knew that his intellect was above the average . 
A fancy some people hold , when in a bitter mood , is that inexorable circumstance only tries to prevent what intelligence attempts . 
Knight gave up thoughts of life utterly and entirely , and turned to contemplate the Dark Valley and the unknown future beyond . 
Into the shadowy depths of these speculations we will not follow him . 
Let it suffice to state what ensued . 
At that moment of taking no more thought for this life , something disturbed the outline of the bank above him . 
It was the head of Elfride . 
Knight immediately prepared to welcome life again . 
The expression of a face consigned to utter loneliness , when a friend first looks in upon it , is moving in the extreme . 
Knight's upward look at Elfride was of a nature with , but far transcending , such an instance as this . 
The lines of his face had deepened to furrows , and every one of them thanked her visibly . 
His lips moved to the word 'Elfride , though the emotion evolved no sound . 
His eyes passed all description in their combination of the whole diapason of eloquence , from lover's deep love to fellow man's gratitude for a token of remembrance from one of his kind . 
What she had come to do he did not know . 
She could only look on at his death , perhaps . 
Still , she had come back , and not deserted him utterly , and it was much . 
She looked down upon him , her face glistening with rain and tears . 
'How calm he is ! she thought . 
'How great and noble he is to be so calm ! She would have died ten times for him then . 
The gliding form of the steamboat caught her eye she heeded it no longer . 
'How much longer can you wait ? came from her pale lips and along the wind to his position . 
'Four minutes , said Knight in a weaker voice than her own . 
'But with a good hope of being saved ? 'Seven or eight . 
He now noticed that in her arms she bore a bundle of white linen , and that her form was singularly attenuated . 
There is nothing like a thorough drenching for reducing the protuberances of clothes , but Elfride's seemed to cling to her like a glove . 
These she knotted end to end , and afterwards twisted them like the strands of a cord . 
In a short space of time she had formed a perfect rope by this means , six or seven yards long . 
'Can you wait while I bind it ? she said , anxiously extending her gaze down to him . 
'Yes , if not very long . 
Hope has given me a wonderful instalment of strength . 
And do you use the time in testing the strength of the knots , one by one . 
She at once obeyed , tested each singly by putting her foot on the rope between each knot , and pulling with her hands . 
One of the knots slipped . 
'Oh , think ! It would have broken but for your forethought , Elfride exclaimed apprehensively . 
She retied the two ends . 
The rope was now firm in every part . 
Then lean down , and hold the end with both hands . 
He had first thought of a safer plan for his own deliverance , but it involved the disadvantage of possibly endangering her life . 
'I have tied it round my waist , she cried , 'and I will lean directly upon the bank , holding with my hands as well . 
It was the arrangement he had thought of , but would not suggest . 
'I will raise and drop it three times when I am behind the bank , she continued , 'to signify that I am ready . 
The rope was trailing by Knight's shoulders . 
In a few moments it twitched three times . 
He waited yet a second or two , then laid hold . 
The incline of this upper portion of the precipice , to the length only of a few feet , useless to a climber empty handed , was invaluable now . 
Not more than half his weight depended entirely on the linen rope . 
Half a dozen extensions of the arms , alternating with half a dozen seizures of the rope with his feet , brought him up to the level of the soil . 
He was saved , and by Elfride . 
He extended his cramped limbs like an awakened sleeper , and sprang over the bank . 
At sight of him she leapt to her feet with almost a shriek of joy . 
Knight's eyes met hers , and with supreme eloquence the glance of each told a long concealed tale of emotion in that short half moment . 
Moved by an impulse neither could resist , they ran together and into each other's arms . 
At the moment of embracing , Elfride's eyes involuntarily flashed towards the Puffin steamboat . 
It had doubled the point , and was no longer to be seen . 
An overwhelming rush of exultation at having delivered the man she revered from one of the most terrible forms of death , shook the gentle girl to the centre of her soul . 
It merged in a defiance of duty to Stephen , and a total recklessness as to plighted faith . 
Every nerve of her will was now in entire subjection to her feeling volition as a guiding power had forsaken her . 
To remain passive , as she remained now , encircled by his arms , was a sufficiently complete result a glorious crown to all the years of her life . 
Perhaps he was only grateful , and did not love her . 
No matter it was infinitely more to be even the slave of the greater than the queen of the less . 
Some such sensation as this , though it was not recognized as a finished thought , raced along the impressionable soul of Elfride . 
Regarding their attitude , it was impossible for two persons to go nearer to a kiss than went Knight and Elfride during those minutes of impulsive embrace in the pelting rain . 
Yet they did not kiss . 
Knight's peculiarity of nature was such that it would not allow him to take advantage of the unguarded and passionate avowal she had tacitly made . 
Elfride recovered herself , and gently struggled to be free . 
He reluctantly relinquished her , and then surveyed her from crown to toe . 
She seemed as small as an infant . 
He perceived whence she had obtained the rope . 
'Elfride , my Elfride ! he exclaimed in gratified amazement . 
'I must leave you now , she said , her face doubling its red , with an expression between gladness and shame 'You follow me , but at some distance . 
'The rain and wind pierce you through the chill will kill you . 
God bless you for such devotion ! Take my coat and put it on . 
'No I shall get warm running . 
Elfride had absolutely nothing between her and the weather but her exterior robe or 'costume . 
The door had been made upon a woman's wit , and it had found its way out . 
Behind the bank , whilst Knight reclined upon the dizzy slope waiting for death , she had taken off her whole clothing , and replaced only her outer bodice and skirt . 
Every thread of the remainder lay upon the ground in the form of a woollen and cotton rope . 
'I am used to being wet through , she added . 
'I have been drenched on Pansy dozens of times . 
Elfride was soon out of sight . 
Knight felt uncomfortably wet and chilled , but glowing with fervour nevertheless . 
He gathered up her knotted and twisted plumage of linen , lace , and embroidery work , and laid it across his arm . 
He noticed on the ground an envelope , limp and wet . 
It was blown to the right , blown to the left it floated to the edge of the cliff and over the sea , where it was hurled aloft . 
It twirled in the air , and then flew back over his head . 
Knight followed the paper , and secured it . 
Having done so , he looked to discover if it had been worth securing . 
The troublesome sheet was a banker's receipt for two hundred pounds , placed to the credit of Miss Swancourt , which the impractical girl had totally forgotten she carried with her . 
Knight folded it as carefully as its moist condition would allow , put it in his pocket , and followed Elfride . 
Chapter XXIII 'Should auld acquaintance be forgot ? By this time Stephen Smith had stepped out upon the quay at Castle Boterel , and breathed his native air . 
A darker skin , a more pronounced moustache , and an incipient beard , were the chief additions and changes noticeable in his appearance . 
This place lay in a vale of its own , further inland than the west village , and though so near it , had little of physical feature in common with the latter . 
Further up it emerged upon a ledge immediately over the turnpike road , and sheltered by an overhanging face of rubble rock , with bushes above . 
For a reason of his own he made this spot his refuge from the storm , and turning his face to the left , conned the landscape as a book . 
He was overlooking the valley containing Elfride's residence . 
Stephen had looked upon these things hundreds of times before to day , but he had never viewed them with such tenderness as now . 
Stepping forward in this direction yet a little further , he could see the tower of West Endelstow Church , beneath which he was to meet his Elfride that night . 
And at the same time he noticed , coming over the hill from the cliffs , a white speck in motion . 
It seemed first to be a sea gull flying low , but ultimately proved to be a human figure , running with great rapidity . 
The form flitted on , heedless of the rain which had caused Stephen's halt in this place , dropped down the heathery hill , entered the vale , and was out of sight . 
Slowly and regularly it took the same course , and there was not much doubt that this was the form of a man . 
He , too , gradually descended from the upper levels , and was lost in the valley below . 
The rain had by this time again abated , and Stephen returned to the road . 
Looking ahead , he saw two men and a cart . 
They were soon obscured by the intervention of a high hedge . 
Just before they emerged again he heard voices in conversation . 
''A must soon be in the naibourhood , too , if so be he's a coming , said a tenor tongue , which Stephen instantly recognized as Martin Cannister's . 
''A must 'a b'lieve , said another voice that of Stephen's father . 
Stephen stepped forward , and came before them face to face . 
His father and Martin were walking , dressed in their second best suits , and beside them rambled along a grizzel horse and brightly painted spring cart . 
'All right , Mr. Cannister here's the lost man ! exclaimed young Smith , entering at once upon the old style of greeting . 
'Father , here I am . 
'All right , my sonny and glad I be for't ! returned John Smith , overjoyed to see the young man . 
'How be ye ? Well , come along home , and don't let's bide out here in the damp . 
Such weather must be terrible bad for a young chap just come from a fiery nation like Indy hey , naibour Cannister ? 'Trew , trew . 
And about getting home his traps ? Boxes , monstrous bales , and noble packages of foreign description , I make no doubt ? 'Hardly all that , said Stephen laughing . 
'We brought the cart , maning to go right on to Castle Boterel afore ye landed , said his father . 
Put in the horse , says Martin . 
Ay , says I , so we will and did it straightway . 
Now , maybe , Martin had better go on wi' the cart for the things , and you and I walk home along . 
'And I shall be back a'most as soon as you . 
Peggy is a pretty step still , though time d' begin to tell upon her as upon the rest o' us . 
Stephen told Martin where to find his baggage , and then continued his journey homeward in the company of his father . 
We've killed the pig this morning for ye , thinking ye'd be hungry , and glad of a morsel of fresh mate . 
And 'a won't be cut up till to night . 
Never were such a steer , 'a b'lieve . 
Conversation of this kind and inquiries of Stephen for his mother's wellbeing occupied them for the remainder of the journey . 
'The clock stopped this morning , and your mother in putting en right seemingly , said his father in an explanatory tone and they went up the garden to the door . 
When the luggage had been all taken down , and Stephen had gone upstairs to change his clothes , Mrs. Smith's mind seemed to recover a lost thread . 
'Really our clock is not worth a penny , she said , turning to it and attempting to start the pendulum . 
'Stopped again ? inquired Martin with commiseration . 
The clock's stopped again , John , I say to him . 
Better have en claned , says he . 
That clock grinds again , I say to en . 
Better have en claned , 'a says again . 
That clock strikes wrong , John , says I. Better have en claned , he goes on . 
And , Martin , you must be wet . 
My son is gone up to change . 
John is damper than I should like to be , but 'a calls it nothing . 
Some of Mrs. Swancourt's servants have been here they ran in out of the rain when going for a walk and I assure you the state of their bonnets was frightful . 
Behind him stood a woman about twice his size , with a large umbrella over her head . 
This was Mrs. Worm , William's wife . 
'Come in , William , said John Smith . 
'We don't kill a pig every day . 
And you , likewise , Mrs. Worm . 
Since ye left Parson Swancourt , William , I don't see much of 'ee . 
However , our boy is able to mind the gate now , and I said , says I , Barbara , let's call and see John Smith . 
'I am sorry to hear yer pore head is so bad still . 
'Ay , I assure you that frying o' fish is going on for nights and days . 
And , you know , sometimes 'tisn't only fish , but rashers o' bacon and inions . 
'Have ye ever tried anything to cure yer noise , Maister Worm ? inquired Martin Cannister . 
'Oh ay bless ye , I've tried everything . 
Ay , I be a poor wambling man , and life's a mint o' trouble ! 'True , mournful true , William Worm . 
The world wants looking to , or 'tis all sixes and sevens wi' us . 
'Take your things off , Mrs. Worm , said Mrs. Smith . 
'What beautiful tiger lilies ! said Mrs. Worm . 
'Yes , they be very well , but such a trouble to me on account of the children that come here . 
They will go eating the berries on the stem , and call 'em currants . 
Taste wi' junivals is quite fancy , really . 
'And your snapdragons look as fierce as ever . 
'Well , really , answered Mrs. Smith , entering didactically into the subject , 'they are more like Christians than flowers . 
But they make up well enough wi' the rest , and don't require much tending . 
And the same can be said o' these miller's wheels . 
'Tis a flower I like very much , though so simple . 
John says he never cares about the flowers o' 'em , but men have no eye for anything neat . 
He says his favourite flower is a cauliflower . 
And I assure you I tremble in the springtime , for 'tis perfect murder . 
'You don't say so , Mrs. Smith ! 'John digs round the roots , you know . 
In goes his blundering spade , through roots , bulbs , everything that hasn't got a good show above ground , turning 'em up cut all to slices . 
Only the very last fall I went to move some tulips , when I found every bulb upside down , and the stems crooked round . 
He had turned 'em over in the spring , and the cunning creatures had soon found that heaven was not where it used to be . 
They be very well in their way , but I do not care for things that neglect won't kill . 
Do what I will , dig , drag , scrap , pull , I get too many of 'em . 
I chop the roots up they'll come , treble strong . 
Throw 'em over hedge there they'll grow , staring me in the face like a hungry dog driven away , and creep back again in a week or two the same as before . 
'Tis Jacob's ladder here , Jacob's ladder there , and plant 'em where nothing in the world will grow , you get crowds of 'em in a month or two . 
I thought , There's them Jacob's ladders I'll put them there , since they can't do harm in such a place and I planted the Jacob's ladders sure enough . 
They growed , and they growed , in the mixen and out of the mixen , all over the litter , covering it quite up . 
'Tis my belief that in the secret souls o' 'em , Jacob's ladders be weeds , and not flowers at all , if the truth was known . 
Robert Lickpan , pig killer and carrier , arrived at this moment . 
The fatted animal hanging in the back kitchen was cleft down the middle of its backbone , Mrs. Smith being meanwhile engaged in cooking supper . 
Still there was a touch o' the frisky that set me wondering . 
'A got closer , and I said , That's the lad , for I d' know en by his carrying a black case like a travelling man . 
Still , a road is common to all the world , and there be more travelling men than one . 
Then 'a come closer , and a' said , All right . 
I could swear to en then . 
Stephen's personal appearance was next criticised . 
'He d' look a deal thinner in face , surely , than when I seed en at the parson's , and never knowed en , if ye'll believe me , said Martin . 
'Ay , there , said another , without removing his eyes from Stephen's face , 'I should ha' knowed en anywhere . 
'Tis his father's nose to a T. 'It has been often remarked , said Stephen modestly . 
'And he's certainly taller , said Martin , letting his glance run over Stephen's form from bottom to top . 
'I was thinking 'a was exactly the same height , Worm replied . 
'Bless thy soul , that's because he's bigger round likewise . 
And the united eyes all moved to Stephen's waist . 
'I be a poor wambling man , but I can make allowances , said William Worm . 
'Ah , well , said Worm musingly , 'some would have looked for no less than a Sir . 
There's a sight of difference in people . 
'And in pigs likewise , observed John Smith , looking at the halved carcass of his own . 
Robert Lickpan , the pig killer , here seemed called upon to enter the lists of conversation . 
'Yes , they've got their particular naters good now , he remarked initially . 
'Many's the rum tempered pig I've knowed . 
'I don't doubt it , Master Lickpan , answered Martin , in a tone expressing that his convictions , no less than good manners , demanded the reply . 
'Yes , continued the pig killer , as one accustomed to be heard . 
'One that I knowed was deaf and dumb , and we couldn't make out what was the matter wi' the pig . 
'A would eat well enough when 'a seed the trough , but when his back was turned , you might a rattled the bucket all day , the poor soul never heard ye . 
Ye could play tricks upon en behind his back , and a' wouldn't find it out no quicker than poor deaf Grammer Cates . 
'How very mournful ! murmured Mrs. Worm . 
'Ay , poor thing , 'a did ! As clean out of his mind as the cleverest Christian could go . 
In early life 'a was very melancholy , and never seemed a hopeful pig by no means . 
'Twas Andrew Stainer's pig that's whose pig 'twas . 
'I can mind the pig well enough , attested John Smith . 
'And a pretty little porker 'a was . 
'Well , now we'll weigh , said John . 
'If so be he were not so fine , we'd weigh en whole but as he is , we'll take a side at a time . 
John , you can mind my old joke , ey ? 'I do so though 'twas a good few years ago I first heard en . 
'Yes , said Lickpan , 'that there old familiar joke have been in our family for generations , I may say . 
My father used that joke regular at pig killings for more than five and forty years the time he followed the calling . 
'I've never heard the joke , said Mrs. Smith tentatively . 
'Nor I , chimed in Mrs. Worm , who , being the only other lady in the room , felt bound by the laws of courtesy to feel like Mrs. Smith in everything . 
'Surely , surely you have , said the killer , looking sceptically at the benighted females . 
'However , 'tisn't much I don't wish to say it is . 
Ha , ha , ha ! 'Haw , haw , haw ! laughed Martin Cannister , who had heard the explanation of this striking story for the hundredth time . 
'Huh , huh , huh ! laughed John Smith , who had heard it for the thousandth . 
'Hee , hee , hee ! laughed William Worm , who had never heard it at all , but was afraid to say so . 
'Thy grandfather , Robert , must have been a wide awake chap to make that story , said Martin Cannister , subsiding to a placid aspect of delighted criticism . 
'He had a head , by all account . 
And , you see , as the first born of the Lickpans have all been Roberts , they've all been Bobs , so the story was handed down to the present day . 
'Poor Joseph , your second boy , will never be able to bring it out in company , which is rather unfortunate , said Mrs. Worm thoughtfully . 
Yes , grandfer was a clever chap , as ye say but I knowed a cleverer . 
Uncle Levi made a snuff box that should be a puzzle to his friends to open . 
He used to hand en round at wedding parties , christenings , funerals , and in other jolly company , and let 'em try their skill . 
One man would try the spring , another would try the screw , another would try the slide but try as they would , the box wouldn't open . 
And they couldn't open en , and they didn't open en . 
Now what might you think was the secret of that box ? All put on an expression that their united thoughts were inadequate to the occasion . 
'Why the box wouldn't open at all . 
'A were made not to open , and ye might have tried till the end of Revelations , 'twould have been as naught , for the box were glued all round . 
'A very deep man to have made such a box . 
'Twas like uncle Levi all over . 
I can mind the man very well . 
Tallest man ever I seed . 
He never slept upon a bedstead after he growed up a hard boy chap never could get one long enough . 
'He's dead and gone now , nevertheless , poor man , as we all shall , observed Worm , to fill the pause which followed the conclusion of Robert Lickpan's speech . 
It must be owned that the gentlemanly son of the house looked rather out of place in the course of this operation . 
Nor was his mind quite philosophic enough to allow him to be comfortable with these old established persons , his father's friends . 
He had never lived long at home scarcely at all since his childhood . 
Mrs. Smith was conscious of the defect in her arrangements which had brought about the undesired conjunction . 
She spoke to Stephen privately . 
'Never mind , mother , said Stephen 'I'll put up with it now . 
'When we leave my lord's service , and get further up the country as I hope we shall soon it will be different . 
We shall be among fresh people , and in a larger house , and shall keep ourselves up a bit , I hope . 
'Is Miss Swancourt at home , do you know ? Stephen inquired 'Yes , your father saw her this morning . 
'Do you often see her ? 'Scarcely ever . 
Mr. Glim , the curate , calls occasionally , but the Swancourts don't come into the village now any more than to drive through it . 
They dine at my lord's oftener than they used . 
Ah , here's a note was brought this morning for you by a boy . 
Stephen eagerly took the note and opened it , his mother watching him . 
He read what Elfride had written and sent before she started for the cliff that afternoon 'Yes I will meet you in the church at nine to night . 
E. S. 'I don't know , Stephen , his mother said meaningly , 'whe'r you still think about Miss Elfride , but if I were you I wouldn't concern about her . 
They say that none of old Mrs. Swancourt's money will come to her step daughter . 
'I see the evening has turned out fine I am going out for a little while to look round the place , he said , evading the direct query . 
'Probably by the time I return our visitors will be gone , and we'll have a more confidential talk . 
Chapter XXIV 'Breeze , bird , and flower confess the hour . 
A dark figure stepped from the doorway of John Smith's river side cottage , and strode rapidly towards West Endelstow with a light footstep . 
In less than half an hour from the time of starting he swung himself over the churchyard stile . 
The wild irregular enclosure was as much as ever an integral part of the old hill . 
A sound sped into the air from the direction in which Castle Boterel lay . 
'One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine . 
Stephen carefully counted the strokes , though he well knew their number beforehand . 
It was the hour Elfride had herself named as the most convenient for meeting him . 
Stephen stood at the door of the porch and listened . 
He could have heard the softest breathing of any person within the porch nobody was there . 
He went inside the doorway , sat down upon the stone bench , and waited with a beating heart . 
The faint sounds heard only accentuated the silence . 
The rising and falling of the sea , far away along the coast , was the most important . 
A minor sound was the scurr of a distant night hawk . 
Among all these soft sounds came not the only soft sound he cared to hear the footfall of Elfride . 
For a whole quarter of an hour Stephen sat thus intent , without moving a muscle . 
At the end of that time he walked to the west front of the church . 
Turning the corner of the tower , a white form stared him in the face . 
He started back , and recovered himself . 
No footstep was discernible upon the path up the hill , but a light was shining from a window in the last named house . 
Stephen knew there could be no mistake about the time or place , and no difficulty about keeping the engagement . 
He waited yet longer , passing from impatience into a mood which failed to take any account of the lapse of time . 
He was awakened from his reverie by Castle Boterel clock . 
One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , TEN . 
Slowly he drew near the gate of her house . 
This he softly opened , and walked up the gravel drive to the door . 
Here he paused for several minutes . 
At the expiration of that time the murmured speech of a manly voice came out to his ears through an open window behind the corner of the house . 
This was responded to by a clear soft laugh . 
It was the laugh of Elfride . 
Stephen was conscious of a gnawing pain at his heart . 
He retreated as he had come . 
There are disappointments which wring us , and there are those which inflict a wound whose mark we bear to our graves . 
Such are so keen that no future gratification of the same desire can ever obliterate them they become registered as a permanent loss of happiness . 
When the young man reached home he found there a letter which had arrived in his absence . 
Believing it to contain some reason for her non appearance , yet unable to imagine one that could justify her , he hastily tore open the envelope . 
The paper contained not a word from Elfride . 
It was the deposit note for his two hundred pounds . 
On the back was the form of a cheque , and this she had filled up with the same sum , payable to the bearer . 
He attempted to divine her motive . 
He knew not what to do . 
Only one course recommended itself as wise . 
This act of patience was in keeping only with the nature of a man precisely of Stephen's constitution . 
Nine men out of ten would perhaps have rushed off , got into her presence , by fair means or foul , and provoked a catastrophe of some sort . 
Possibly for the better , probably for the worse . 
He started for Birmingham the next morning . 
A day's delay would have made no difference but he could not rest until he had begun and ended the programme proposed to himself . 
Bodily activity will sometimes take the sting out of anxiety as completely as assurance itself . 
Chapter XXV 'Mine own familiar friend . 
During these days of absence Stephen lived under alternate conditions . 
Whenever his emotions were active , he was in agony . 
Whenever he was not in agony , the business in hand had driven out of his mind by sheer force all deep reflection on the subject of Elfride and love . 
By the time he took his return journey at the week's end , Stephen had very nearly worked himself up to an intention to call and see her face to face . 
It was a bright silent evening at the beginning of September when Smith again set foot in the little town . 
A star appeared , and another , and another . 
They sparkled amid the yards and rigging of the two coal brigs lying alangside , as if they had been tiny lamps suspended in the ropes . 
The masts rocked sleepily to the infinitesimal flux of the tide , which clucked and gurgled with idle regularity in nooks and holes of the harbour wall . 
The boat came opposite him , passed on , and touched the landing steps at the further end . 
One of its occupants was a man , as Stephen had known by the easy stroke of the oars . 
Stephen remained a moment in their rear , and they passed on , when he pursued his way also , and soon forgot the circumstance . 
By the time that Stephen had reached the wicket and passed it , he heard another click of precisely the same nature from another gate yet further on . 
Clearly some person or persons were preceding him along the path , their footsteps being rendered noiseless by the soft carpet of turf . 
Stephen now walked a little quicker , and perceived two forms . 
One of them bore aloft the white feather he had noticed in the woman's hat on the quay they were the couple he had seen in the boat . 
Stephen dropped a little further to the rear . 
This footway led only to the residence of Mrs. Swancourt and a cottage or two in its vicinity . 
Stephen climbed in the same direction , but for some undefined reason he trod more softly than did those preceding him . 
His mind was unconsciously in exercise upon whom the woman might be whether a visitor to The Crags , a servant , or Elfride . 
He put it to himself yet more forcibly could the lady be Elfride ? A possible reason for her unaccountable failure to keep the appointment with him returned with painful force . 
He fancied that he heard the gate open and swing together again behind him . 
Turning , he saw nobody . 
The people of the boat came to the summer house . 
'I am afraid we shall get a scolding for being so late . 
Stephen instantly recognised the familiar voice , richer and fuller now than it used to be . 
'Elfride ! he whispered to himself , and held fast by a sapling , to steady himself under the agitation her presence caused him . 
His heart swerved from its beat he shunned receiving the meaning he sought . 
'A breeze is rising again how the ash tree rustles ! said Elfride . 
'Don't you hear it ? I wonder what the time is . 
I will get a light and tell you . 
Step into the summer house the air is quiet there . 
In the lower part it was formed of close wood work nailed crosswise , and had openings in the upper by way of windows . 
The scratch of a striking light was heard , and a bright glow radiated from the interior of the building . 
The light gave birth to dancing leaf shadows , stem shadows , lustrous streaks , dots , sparkles , and threads of silver sheen of all imaginable variety and transience . 
It awakened gnats , which flew towards it , revealed shiny gossamer threads , disturbed earthworms . 
Stephen gave but little attention to these phenomena , and less time . 
He saw in the summer house a strongly illuminated picture . 
Next , his bright particular star , Elfride . 
The face of Elfride was more womanly than when she had called herself his , but as clear and healthy as ever . 
Her plenteous twines of beautiful hair were looking much as usual , with the exception of a slight modification in their arrangement in deference to the changes of fashion . 
Their two foreheads were close together , almost touching , and both were looking down . 
Elfride was holding her watch , Knight was holding the light with one hand , his left arm being round her waist . 
Part of the scene reached Stephen's eyes through the horizontal bars of woodwork , which crossed their forms like the ribs of a skeleton . 
Knight's arm stole still further round the waist of Elfride . 
The flame dwindled down , died away , and all was wrapped in a darkness to which the gloom before the illumination bore no comparison in apparent density . 
Stephen , shattered in spirit and sick to his heart's centre , turned away . 
In turning , he saw a shadowy outline behind the summer house on the other side . 
His eyes grew accustomed to the darkness . 
Was the form a human form , or was it an opaque bush of juniper ? The lovers arose , brushed against the laurestines , and pursued their way to the house . 
The indistinct figure had moved , and now passed across Smith's front . 
So completely enveloped was the person , that it was impossible to discern him or her any more than as a shape . 
The shape glided noiselessly on . 
Stephen stepped forward , fearing any mischief was intended to the other two . 
'Who are you ? he said . 
'Never mind who I am , answered a weak whisper from the enveloping folds . 
'WHAT I am , may she be ! Perhaps I knew well ah , so well ! a youth whose place you took , as he there now takes yours . 
Will you let her break your heart , and bring you to an untimely grave , as she did the one before you ? 'You are Mrs. Jethway , I think . 
What do you do here ? And why do you talk so wildly ? 'Because my heart is desolate , and nobody cares about it . 
That entered into and mingled with the sensations his new experience had begotten . 
A slow weight of despair , as distinct from a violent paroxysm as starvation from a mortal shot , filled him and wrung him body and soul . 
His hopes for the best had been but periodic interruptions to a chronic fear of the worst . 
A strange concomitant of his misery was the singularity of its form . 
She had ruled him like a queen in that matter , as in all others . 
That she looked up at and adored her new lover from below his pedestal , was even more perceptible than that she had smiled down upon Stephen from a height above him . 
The suddenness of Elfride's renunciation of himself was food for more torture . 
But to Stephen Smith the motive involved in the latter alternative made it untenable where Elfride was the actor . 
He mused on her letters to him , in which she had never mentioned a syllable concerning Knight . 
It is desirable , however , to observe that only in two letters could she possibly have done so . 
In the next she did casually allude to Knight . 
But Stephen had left Bombay long before that letter arrived . 
Stephen looked at the black form of the adjacent house , where it cut a dark polygonal notch out of the sky , and felt that he hated the spot . 
He did not know many facts of the case , but could not help instinctively associating Elfride's fickleness with the marriage of her father , and their introduction to London society . 
He closed the iron gate bounding the shrubbery as noiselessly as he had opened it , and went into the grassy field . 
Here he could see the old vicarage , the house alone that was associated with the sweet pleasant time of his incipient love for Elfride . 
The nearest way to the cottage was by crossing the park . 
Happiness frequently has reason for haste , but it is seldom that desolation need scramble or strain . 
Sometimes he paused under the low hanging arms of the trees , looking vacantly on the ground . 
Stephen was standing thus , scarcely less crippled in thought than he was blank in vision , when a clear sound permeated the quiet air about him , and spread on far beyond . 
Another stroke greeted his ear , and gave character to both then came a slow succession of them . 
'Somebody is dead , he said aloud . 
The death knell of an inhabitant of the eastern parish was being tolled . 
An unusual feature in the tolling was that it had not been begun according to the custom in Endelstow and other parishes in the neighbourhood . 
At every death the sex and age of the deceased were announced by a system of changes . 
Three times three strokes signified that the departed one was a man three times two , a woman twice three , a boy twice two , a girl . 
The regular continuity of the tolling suggested that it was the resumption rather than the beginning of a knell the opening portion of which Stephen had not been near enough to hear . 
The momentary anxiety he had felt with regard to his parents passed away . 
He had left them in perfect health , and had any serious illness seized either , a communication would have reached him ere this . 
Stephen reached the brow of the hill , and felt inclined to renounce his idea . 
His mood was such that talking to any person to whom he could not unburden himself would be wearisome . 
Its direction was from the centre of the churchyard . 
Never could there be a greater contrast between two places of like purpose than between this graveyard and that of the further village . 
There was no wall , the division between God's Acre and Lord Luxellian's being marked only by a few square stones set at equidistant points . 
But a nearer approach showed him that its position was immediately under the wall of the aisle , and within the mouth of an archway . 
He could now hear voices , and the truth of the whole matter began to dawn upon him . 
It was the entrance to a large family vault , extending under the north aisle . 
Stephen had never before seen it open , and descending one or two steps stooped to look under the arch . 
The place was well lighted with candles stuck in slips of wood that were fastened to the wall . 
On making the descent of another step the living inhabitants of the vault were recognizable . 
They were his father the master mason , an under mason , Martin Cannister , and two or three young and old labouring men . 
Crowbars and workmen's hammers were scattered about . 
'Who is dead ? Stephen inquired , stepping down . 
Chapter XXVI 'To that last nothing under earth . 
All eyes were turned to the entrance as Stephen spoke , and the ancient mannered conclave scrutinized him inquiringly . 
'Your mother is expecting ye thought you would have come afore dark . 
But you'll wait and go home with me ? I have all but done for the day , and was going directly . 
'Yes , 'tis Master Stephy , sure enough . 
'And who is dead ? Stephen repeated . 
'Lady Luxellian , poor gentlewoman , as we all shall , said the under mason . 
'Ay , and we be going to enlarge the vault to make room for her . 
'When did she die ? 'Early this morning , his father replied , with an appearance of recurring to a chronic thought . 
Martin hev been tolling ever since , almost . 
'She must know by this time whether she's to go up or down , poor woman . 
'What was her age ? 'Not more than seven or eight and twenty by candlelight . 
But , Lord ! by day 'a was forty if 'a were an hour . 
'Ay , night time or day time makes a difference of twenty years to rich feymels , observed Martin . 
'She was one and thirty really , said John Smith . 
'I had it from them that know . 
'Not more than that ! ''A looked very bad , poor lady . 
In faith , ye might say she was dead for years afore 'a would own it . 
'As my old father used to say , dead , but wouldn't drop down . 
'I seed her , poor soul , said a labourer from behind some removed coffins , 'only but last Valentine's day of all the world . 
'A was arm in crook wi' my lord . 
I says to myself , You be ticketed Churchyard , my noble lady , although you don't dream on't . 
'I suppose my lord will write to all the other lords anointed in the nation , to let 'em know that she that was is now no more ? ''Tis done and past . 
I see a bundle of letters go off an hour after the death . 
Sich wonderful black rims as they letters had half an inch wide , at the very least . 
'Too much , observed Martin . 
'In short , 'tis out of the question that a human being can be so mournful as black edges half an inch wide . 
I'm sure people don't feel more than a very narrow border when they feels most of all . 
'And there are two little girls , are there not ? said Stephen . 
'Nice clane little faces ! left motherless now . 
'They used to come to Parson Swancourt's to play with Miss Elfride when I were there , said William Worm . 
'Ah , they did so's ! The latter sentence was introduced to add the necessary melancholy to a remark which , intrinsically , could hardly be made to possess enough for the occasion . 
'Yes , continued Worm , 'they'd run upstairs , they'd run down flitting about with her everywhere . 
Very fond of her , they were . 
Ah , well ! 'Fonder than ever they were of their mother , so 'tis said here and there , added a labourer . 
'Well , you see , 'tis natural . 
Lady Luxellian stood aloof from 'em so was so drowsy like , that they couldn't love her in the jolly companion way children want to like folks . 
'Be as 'twill , the woman is dead and gone , and we must make a place for her , said John . 
Stephen then asked where Lady Luxellian was to lie . 
'Here , said his father . 
'We are going to set back this wall and make a recess and 'tis enough for us to do before the funeral . 
When my lord's mother died , she said , John , the place must be enlarged before another can be put in . 
But 'a never expected 'twould be wanted so soon . 
'Just as ye think best , Master John , replied the shrivelled mason . 
Poor fellow ! He'd clap his hand upon my shoulder and cuss me as familial and neighbourly as if he'd been a common chap . 
Such a strappen fine gentleman as he was too ! Yes , I rather liked en sometimes . 
He was five hundredweight if 'a were a pound . 
'And that one , if he's gone upward , don't know what his wife is doing no more than the man in the moon if she's gone downward . 
'Ay , 'tis a thought to look at , too , that I can say Hullo ! close to fiery Lord George , and 'a can't hear me . 
'And that I be eating my onion close to dainty Lady Jane's nose , and she can't smell me . 
'What do 'em put all their heads one way for ? inquired a young man . 
'Because 'tis churchyard law , you simple . 
The law of the living is , that a man shall be upright and down right , and the law of the dead is , that a man shall be east and west . 
Every state of society have its laws . 
'We must break the law wi' a few of the poor souls , however . 
Come , buckle to , said the master mason . 
And they set to work anew . 
The order of interment could be distinctly traced by observing the appearance of the coffins as they lay piled around . 
On those which had been standing there but a generation or two the trappings still remained . 
Those of an earlier period showed bare wood , with a few tattered rags dangling therefrom . 
The shields upon many were quite loose , and removable by the hand , their lustreless surfaces still indistinctly exhibiting the name and title of the deceased . 
These it was necessary to remove , to form behind them the chamber in which they were ultimately to be deposited . 
Stephen , finding the place and proceedings in keeping with the sombre colours of his mind , waited there still . 
'Simeon , I suppose you can mind poor Lady Elfride , and how she ran away with the actor ? said John Smith , after awhile . 
'I think it fell upon the time my father was sexton here . 
Let us see where is she ? 'Here somewhere , returned Simeon , looking round him . 
'Why , I've got my arms round the very gentlewoman at this moment . 
He lowered the end of the coffin he was holding , wiped his face , and throwing a morsel of rotten wood upon another as an indicator , continued 'That's her husband there . 
They was as fair a couple as you should see anywhere round about and a good hearted pair likewise . 
Ay , I can mind it , though I was but a chiel at the time . 
When she had married she told her father , and 'a fleed into a monstrous rage , and said she shouldn' hae a farthing . 
Lady Elfride said she didn't think of wishing it if he'd forgie her 'twas all she asked , and as for a living , she was content to play plays with her husband . 
Anyhow , they were buried the same day father and mother but the baby lived . 
Ay , my lord's family made much of that man then , and put him here with his wife , and there in the corner the man is now . 
'And what became of the baby ? said Stephen , who had frequently heard portions of the story . 
'She was brought up by her grandmother , and a pretty maid she were . 
And she must needs run away with the curate Parson Swancourt that is now . 
Then her grandmother died , and the title and everything went away to another branch of the family altogether . 
Parson Swancourt wasted a good deal of his wife's money , and she left him Miss Elfride . 
That trick of running away seems to be handed down in families , like craziness or gout . 
And they two women be alike as peas . 
'Which two ? 'Lady Elfride and young Miss that's alive now . 
The same hair and eyes but Miss Elfride's mother was darker a good deal . 
'Life's a strangle bubble , ye see , said William Worm musingly . 
'For if the Lord's anointment had descended upon women instead of men , Miss Elfride would be Lord Luxellian Lady , I mane . 
But as it is , the blood is run out , and she's nothing to the Luxellian family by law , whatever she may be by gospel . 
Chapter XXVII 'How should I greet thee ? Love frequently dies of time alone much more frequently of displacement . 
With Elfride Swancourt , a powerful reason why the displacement should be successful was that the new comer was a greater man than the first . 
By the side of the instructive and piquant snubbings she received from Knight , Stephen's general agreeableness seemed watery by the side of Knight's spare love making , Stephen's continual outflow seemed lackadaisical . 
She had begun to sigh for somebody further on in manhood . 
Stephen was hardly enough of a man . 
The abiding perception of the position of Stephen's parents had , of course , a little to do with Elfride's renunciation . 
Few women of old family can be thoroughly taught that a fine soul may wear a smock frock , and an admittedly common man in one is but a worm in their eyes . 
John Smith's rough hands and clothes , his wife's dialect , the necessary narrowness of their ways , being constantly under Elfride's notice , were not without their deflecting influence . 
On reaching home after the perilous adventure by the sea shore , Knight had felt unwell , and retired almost immediately . 
The young lady who had so materially assisted him had done the same , but she reappeared , properly clothed , about five o'clock . 
She wandered restlessly about the house , but not on account of their joint narrow escape from death . 
The storm which had torn the tree had merely bowed the reed , and with the deliverance of Knight all deep thought of the accident had left her . 
The mutual avowal which it had been the means of precipitating occupied a far longer length of her meditations . 
Elfride's disquiet now was on account of that miserable promise to meet Stephen , which returned like a spectre again and again . 
The perception of his littleness beside Knight grew upon her alarmingly . 
She now thought how sound had been her father's advice to her to give him up , and was as passionately desirous of following it as she had hitherto been averse . 
The hour of appointment came , and with it a crisis and with the crisis a collapse . 
'God forgive me I can't meet Stephen ! she exclaimed to herself . 
'I don't love him less , but I love Mr. Knight more ! Yes she would save herself from a man not fit for her in spite of vows . 
She would obey her father , and have no more to do with Stephen Smith . 
Thus the fickle resolve showed signs of assuming the complexion of a virtue . 
The following days were passed without any definite avowal from Knight's lips . 
The time now really began to be sweet with her . 
She dismissed the sense of sin in her past actions , and was automatic in the intoxication of the moment . 
The fact that Knight made no actual declaration was no drawback . 
Their feelings having been forced to a rather premature demonstration , a reaction was indulged in by both . 
But no sooner had she got rid of her troubled conscience on the matter of faithlessness than a new anxiety confronted her . 
It was lest Knight should accidentally meet Stephen in the parish , and that herself should be the subject of discourse . 
Elfride , learning Knight more thoroughly , perceived that , far from having a notion of Stephen's precedence , he had no idea that she had ever been wooed before by anybody . 
On ordinary occasions she had a tongue so frank as to show her whole mind , and a mind so straightforward as to reveal her heart to its innermost shrine . 
But the time for a change had come . 
She never alluded to even a knowledge of Knight's friend . 
When women are secret they are secret indeed and more often than not they only begin to be secret with the advent of a second lover . 
The elopement was now a spectre worse than the first , and , like the Spirit in Glenfinlas , it waxed taller with every attempt to lay it . 
The longer her concealment the more difficult would be the revelation . 
But she put it off . 
The match was looked upon as made by her father and mother . 
The vicar remembered her promise to reveal the meaning of the telegram she had received , and two days after the scene in the summer house , asked her pointedly . 
She was frank with him now . 
'I had been corresponding with Stephen Smith ever since he left England , till lately , she calmly said . 
'What ! cried the vicar aghast 'under the eyes of Mr. Knight , too ? 'No when I found I cared most for Mr. Knight , I obeyed you . 
'You were very kind , I'm sure . 
It announced the arrival of the vessel bringing him home . 
'Home ! What , is he here ? 'Yes in the village , I believe . 
'Has he tried to see you ? 'Only by fair means . 
But don't , papa , question me so ! It is torture . 
'I will only say one word more , he replied . 
'Have you met him ? 'I have not . 
I can assure you that at the present moment there is no more of an understanding between me and the young man you so much disliked than between him and you . 
You told me to forget him and I have forgotten him . 
'Oh , well though you did not obey me in the beginning , you are a good girl , Elfride , in obeying me at last . 
'Don't call me good , papa , she said bitterly 'you don't know and the less said about some things the better . 
Remember , Mr. Knight knows nothing about the other . 
Oh , how wrong it all is ! I don't know what I am coming to . 
'As matters stand , I should be inclined to tell him or , at any rate , I should not alarm myself about his knowing . 
Knight is a good fellow and a clever man but at the same time it does not escape my perceptions that he is no great catch for you . 
Men of his turn of mind are nothing so wonderful in the way of husbands . 
If you had chosen to wait , you might have mated with a much wealthier man . 
But remember , I have not a word to say against your having him , if you like him . 
Charlotte is delighted , as you know . 
'Well , papa , she said , smiling hopefully through a sigh , 'it is nice to feel that in giving way to to caring for him , I have pleased my family . 
It has been recognized by poets from time immemorial . 
Now don't be troubled about that , Elfride . 
'Ah , you don't know ! They had been standing on the lawn , and Knight was now seen lingering some way down a winding walk . 
When Elfride met him , it was with a much greater lightness of heart things were more straightforward now . 
The responsibility of her fickleness seemed partly shifted from her own shoulders to her father's . 
Still , there were shadows . 
'Ah , could he have known how far I went with Stephen , and yet have said the same , how much happier I should be ! That was her prevailing thought . 
The steps to the vault , as has been stated , were on the outside of the building , immediately under the aisle wall . 
Being on horseback , both Knight and Elfride could overlook the shrubs which screened the church yard . 
'Look , the vault seems still to be open , said Knight . 
'Yes , it is open , she answered 'Who is that man close by it ? The mason , I suppose ? 'Yes . 
'I wonder if it is John Smith , Stephen's father ? 'I believe it is , said Elfride , with apprehension . 
'Ah , and can it be ? I should like to inquire how his son , my truant protege' , is going on . 
And from your father's description of the vault , the interior must be interesting . 
'Had we better , do you think ? May not Lord Luxellian be there ? 'It is not at all likely . 
Elfride then assented , since she could do nothing else . 
Her heart , which at first had quailed in consternation , recovered itself when she considered the character of John Smith . 
A quiet unassuming man , he would be sure to act towards her as before those love passages with his son , which might have given a more pretentious mechanic airs . 
So without much alarm she took Knight's arm after dismounting , and went with him between and over the graves . 
The master mason recognized her as she approached , and , as usual , lifted his hat respectfully . 
'I know you to be Mr. Smith , my former friend Stephen's father , said Knight , directly he had scanned the embrowned and ruddy features of John . 
'Yes , sir , I b'lieve I be . 
'How is your son now ? I have only once heard from him since he went to India . 
I daresay you have heard him speak of me Mr. Knight , who became acquainted with him some years ago in Exonbury . 
'Ay , that I have . 
Stephen is very well , thank you , sir , and he's in England in fact , he's at home . 
In short , sir , he's down in the vault there , a looking at the departed coffins . 
Elfride's heart fluttered like a butterfly . 
'Well , that is extraordinary . 
'Did he know I was in the parish ? 'I really can't say , sir , said John , wishing himself out of the entanglement he rather suspected than thoroughly understood . 
'Would it be considered an intrusion by the family if we went into the vault ? 'Oh , bless ye , no , sir scores of folk have been stepping down . 
'Tis left open a purpose . 
'We will go down , Elfride . 
'I am afraid the air is close , she said appealingly . 
'Oh no , ma'am , said John . 
'We white limed the walls and arches the day 'twas opened , as we always do , and again on the morning of the funeral the place is as sweet as a granary . 
'Then I should like you to accompany me , Elfie having originally sprung from the family too . 
'I don't like going where death is so emphatically present . 
I'll stay by the horses whilst you go in they may get loose . 
'Oh no , I am not afraid don't say that . 
Stephen came forward and shook him by the hand , without speaking . 
'Why have you not written , my boy ? said Knight , without in any way signifying Elfride's presence to Stephen . 
'Why haven't you written to me ? said Stephen . 
Why haven't I ? why haven't we ? That's always the query which we cannot clearly answer without an unsatisfactory sense of our inadequacies . 
However , I have not forgotten you , Smith . 
And now we have met and we must meet again , and have a longer chat than this can conveniently be . 
I must know all you have been doing . 
That yon have thriven , I know , and you must teach me the way . 
Elfride stood in the background . 
Stephen had read the position at a glance , and immediately guessed that she had never mentioned his name to Knight . 
His old sense of indebtedness to Knight had never wholly forsaken him his love for Elfride was generous now . 
Circumstances favouring this course , it was desirable also to be rather reserved towards Knight , to shorten the meeting as much as possible . 
'I am afraid that my time is almost too short to allow even of such a pleasure , he said . 
'I leave here to morrow . 
And until I start for the Continent and India , which will be in a fortnight , I shall have hardly a moment to spare . 
Knight's disappointment and dissatisfied looks at this reply sent a pang through Stephen as great as any he had felt at the sight of Elfride . 
The words about shortness of time were literally true , but their tone was far from being so . 
'Oh , I am sorry to hear that , said Knight , in a changed tone . 
'But of course , if you have weighty concerns to attend to , they must not be neglected . 
'It is a strange place for us to meet in , he continued , looking round the vault . 
Stephen briefly assented , and there was a silence . 
The blackened coffins were now revealed more clearly than at first , the whitened walls and arches throwing them forward in strong relief . 
It was a scene which was remembered by all three as an indelible mark in their history . 
The white daylight on his right side gleamed faintly in , and was toned to a blueness by contrast with the yellow rays from the candle against the wall . 
'I have been here two or three times since it was opened , said Stephen . 
'My father was engaged in the work , you know . 
What are you doing ? Knight inquired , looking at the note book and pencil Stephen held in his hand . 
'I have been sketching a few details in the church , and since then I have been copying the names from some of the coffins here . 
Before I left England I used to do a good deal of this sort of thing . 
Ah , that's poor Lady Luxellian , I suppose . 
Knight pointed to a coffin of light satin wood , which stood on the stone sleepers in the new niche . 
'And the remainder of the family are on this side . 
Who are those two , so snug and close together ? Stephen's voice altered slightly as he replied 'That's Lady Elfride Kingsmore born Luxellian , and that is Arthur , her husband . 
I have heard my father say that they he ran away with her , and married her against the wish of her parents . 
'Then I imagine this to be where you got your Christian name , Miss Swancourt ? said Knight , turning to her . 
Elfride had then the conscience stricken look of Guido's Magdalen , rendered upon a more childlike form . 
She kept her face partially away from Knight and Stephen , and set her eyes upon the sky visible outside , as if her salvation depended upon quickly reaching it . 
Can one be pardoned , and retain the offence ? quoted Elfride's heart then . 
Conversation seemed to have no self sustaining power , and went on in the shape of disjointed remarks . 
'One's mind gets thronged with thoughts while standing so solemnly here , Knight said , in a measured quiet voice . 
What comes next , Elfride ? It is the Hundred and second Psalm I am thinking of . 
'Well , said Knight musingly , 'let us leave them . 
'One has a sense of wrong , too , that such an appreciative breadth as a sentient being possesses should be committed to the frail casket of a body . 
What weakens one's intentions regarding the future like the thought of this ? . 
However , let us tune ourselves to a more cheerful chord , for there's a great deal to be done yet by us all . 
Physically not so handsome as either the youthful architect or the vicar's daughter , the thoroughness and integrity of Knight illuminated his features with a dignity not even incipient in the other two . 
The charm of woman , too , lies partly in her subtleness in matters of love . 
But if honesty is a virtue in itself , Elfride , having none of it now , seemed , being for being , scarcely good enough for Knight . 
Stephen , though deceptive for no unworthy purpose , was deceptive after all and whatever good results grace such strategy if it succeed , it seldom draws admiration , especially when it fails . 
On an ordinary occasion , had Knight been even quite alone with Stephen , he would hardly have alluded to his possible relationship to Elfride . 
But moved by attendant circumstances Knight was impelled to be confiding . 
'Stephen , he said , 'this lady is Miss Swancourt . 
I am staying at her father's house , as you probably know . 
He stepped a few paces nearer to Smith , and said in a lower tone 'I may as well tell you that we are engaged to be married . 
The ray of daylight which reached her face lent it a blue pallor in comparison with those of the other two . 
'I congratulate you , Stephen whispered and said aloud , 'I know Miss Swancourt a little . 
You must remember that my father is a parishioner of Mr. Swancourt's . 
'I thought you might possibly not have lived at home since they have been here . 
'I have never lived at home , certainly , since that time . 
'I have seen Mr. Smith , faltered Elfride . 
'Well , there is no excuse for me . 
As strangers to each other I ought , I suppose , to have introduced you as acquaintances , I should not have stood so persistently between you . 
But the fact is , Smith , you seem a boy to me , even now . 
Stephen appeared to have a more than previous consciousness of the intense cruelty of his fate at the present moment . 
'Oh , no , no ! I won't have that . 
'Well , let us go into the open air again Miss Swancourt , you are particularly silent . 
I have known him for years , as I have told you . 
'Yes , you have , she said . 
Elfride stepped a little in advance , and passed through the churchyard . 
'You are changed very considerably , Smith , said Knight , 'and I suppose it is no more than was to be expected . 
However , don't imagine that I shall feel any the less interest in you and your fortunes whenever you care to confide them to me . 
I have not forgotten the attachment you spoke of as your reason for going away to India . 
A London young lady , was it not ? I hope all is prosperous ? 'No the match is broken off . 
But I beg that you will not press me further no , you have not pressed me I don't mean that but I would rather not speak upon the subject . 
Knight said no more , and they followed in the footsteps of Elfride , who still kept some paces in advance , and had not heard Knight's unconscious allusion to her . 
Stephen bade him adieu at the churchyard gate without going outside , and watched whilst he and his sweetheart mounted their horses . 
'Good heavens , Elfride , Knight exclaimed , 'how pale you are ! I suppose I ought not to have taken you into that vault . 
What is the matter ? 'Nothing , said Elfride faintly . 
'I shall be myself in a moment . 
All was so strange and unexpected down there , that it made me unwell . 
'I thought you said very little . 
Shall I get some water ? 'No , no . 
'Do you think it is safe for you to mount ? 'Quite indeed it is , she said , with a look of appeal . 
'Now then up she goes ! whispered Knight , and lifted her tenderly into the saddle . 
Her old lover still looked on at the performance as he leant over the gate a dozen yards off . 
Launce's after the passionate attempt at marriage with him , Elfride looked in the face of the young man she first had loved . 
He was the youth who had called her his inseparable wife many a time , and whom she had even addressed as her husband . 
Measurement of life should be proportioned rather to the intensity of the experience than to its actual length . 
Their glance , but a moment chronologically , was a season in their history . 
To Elfride the intense agony of reproach in Stephen's eye was a nail piercing her heart with a deadliness no words can describe . 
With a spasmodic effort she withdrew her eyes , urged on the horse , and in the chaos of perturbed memories was oblivious of any presence beside her . 
The deed of deception was complete . 
She pressed a hand to her eyes , as if to blot out the image of Stephen . 
A vivid scarlet spot now shone with preternatural brightness in the centre of each cheek , leaving the remainder of her face lily white as before . 
Surely you think so too ? 'Yes I own it . 
This , clearly perceived by Elfride , added poignancy to her self reproach , and she idolized him the more because of their difference . 
She had replied to Knight's question hastily , and immediately went on to speak of indifferent subjects . 
After they had reached home she was apart from him till dinner time . 
When dinner was over , and they were watching the dusk in the drawing room , Knight stepped out upon the terrace . 
Elfride went after him very decisively , on the spur of a virtuous intention . 
Knight , I want to tell you something , she said , with quiet firmness . 
'And what is it about ? gaily returned her lover . 
Do not let anything keep you so sad as you seem to have been to day . 
'I cannot mention the matter until I tell you the whole substance of it , she said . 
'And that I will do to morrow . 
I have been reminded of it to day . 
It is about something I once did , and don't think I ought to have done . 
Knight thought the matter some trifle , and said pleasantly 'Then I am not to hear the dreadful confession now ? 'No , not now . 
I did not mean to night , Elfride responded , with a slight decline in the firmness of her voice . 
'It is not light as you think it it troubles me a great deal . 
Fearing now the effect of her own earnestness , she added forcedly , 'Though , perhaps , you may think it light after all . 
'But you have not said when it is to be ? 'To morrow morning . 
She added a little artificial laugh , which showed how timorous her resolution was still . 
'Well , say after breakfast at eleven o'clock . 
Bind me strictly to my word . 
Chapter XXVIII 'I lull a fancy , trouble tost . 
Miss Swancourt , it is eleven o'clock . 
'Yes , it is , I know . 
He drew closer , and under the window . 
'How are you this morning , Elfride ? You look no better for your long night's rest . 
She appeared at the door shortly after , took his offered arm , and together they walked slowly down the gravel path leading to the river and away under the trees . 
Her resolution , sustained during the last fifteen hours , had been to tell the whole truth , and now the moment had come . 
Step by step they advanced , and still she did not speak . 
They were nearly at the end of the walk , when Knight broke the silence . 
I fancy you thought me to mean I was nineteen my next birthday , but it was my last I was nineteen . 
The moment had been too much for her . 
Her dread lest he should be unforgiving was heightened by the thought of yesterday's artifice , which might possibly add disgust to his disappointment . 
The certainty of one more day's affection , which she gained by silence , outvalued the hope of a perpetuity combined with the risk of all . 
He smiled and pressed her hand warmly . 
And , by George , well I may not for it would never do for a staid fogey a dozen years older to stand upon such a trifle as that . 
'Don't praise me don't praise me ! Though I prize it from your lips , I don't deserve it now . 
But Knight , being in an exceptionally genial mood , merely saw this distressful exclamation as modesty . 
'Well , he added , after a minute , 'I like you all the better , you know , for such moral precision , although I called it absurd . 
He went on with tender earnestness 'For , Elfride , there is one thing I do love to see in a woman that is , a soul truthful and clear as heaven's light . 
I could put up with anything if I had that forgive nothing if I had it not . 
Depend upon it , my dear girl , that a noble woman must be as honest as a noble man . 
Elfride looked troublously at the trees . 
'Now let us go on to the river , Elfie . 
'I would if I had a hat on , she said with a sort of suppressed woe . 
'I will get it for you , said Knight , very willing to purchase her companionship at so cheap a price . 
'You sit down there a minute . 
And he turned and walked rapidly back to the house for the article in question . 
Elfride sat down upon one of the rustic benches which adorned this portion of the grounds , and remained with her eyes upon the grass . 
She was induced to lift them by hearing the brush of light and irregular footsteps hard by . 
Passing along the path which intersected the one she was in and traversed the outer shrubberies , Elfride beheld the farmer's widow , Mrs. Jethway . 
Before she noticed Elfride , she paused to look at the house , portions of which were visible through the bushes . 
Elfride , shrinking back , hoped the unpleasant woman might go on without seeing her . 
'Ah , Miss Swancourt ! Why did you disturb me ? Mustn't I trespass here ? 'You may walk here if you like , Mrs. Jethway . 
I do not disturb you . 
'You disturb my mind , and my mind is my whole life for my boy is there still , and he is gone from my body . 
'Yes , poor young man . 
I was sorry when he died . 
'Do you know what he died of ? 'Consumption . 
'Oh no , no ! said the widow . 
'That word consumption covers a good deal . 
He died because you were his own well agreed sweetheart , and then proved false and it killed him . 
Yes , Miss Swancourt , she said in an excited whisper , 'you killed my son ! 'How can you be so wicked and foolish ! replied Elfride , rising indignantly . 
But indignation was not natural to her , and having been so worn and harrowed by late events , she lost any powers of defence that mood might have lent her . 
'I could not help his loving me , Mrs. Jethway ! 'That's just what you could have helped . 
You know how it began , Miss Elfride . 
'I knew it was his name of course I did but I am sure , Mrs. Jethway , I did not intend anybody to tell him . 
'But you knew they would . 
He was gentle and nice I always thought him so and I liked him . 
'Then why did you let him kiss you ? 'It is a falsehood oh , it is , it is ! said Elfride , weeping with desperation . 
'He came behind me , and attempted to kiss me and that was why I told him never to let me see him again . 
'But you did not tell your father or anybody , as you would have if you had looked upon it then as the insult you now pretend it was . 
'He begged me not to tell , and foolishly enough I did not . 
And I wish I had now . 
I little expected to be scourged with my own kindness . 
Pray leave me , Mrs. Jethway . 
The girl only expostulated now . 
'Well , you harshly dismissed him , and he died . 
And before his body was cold , you took another to your heart . 
Then as carelessly sent him about his business , and took a third . 
And if you consider that nothing , Miss Swancourt , she continued , drawing closer 'it led on to what was very serious indeed . 
Fickleness towards a lover is bad , but fickleness after playing the wife is wantonness . 
'Do and say all you can to ruin me try put your tongue at work I invite it ! I defy you as a slanderous woman ! Look , there he comes . 
And her voice trembled greatly as she saw through the leaves the beloved form of Knight coming from the door with her hat in his hand . 
'Tell him at once I can bear it . 
'Not now , said the woman , and disappeared down the path . 
Knight put the hat upon her head , took her hand , and drew it within his arm . 
It was the last day but one previous to their departure for St . 
Leonards and Knight seemed to have a purpose in being much in her company that day . 
They rambled along the valley . 
The season was that period in the autumn when the foliage alone of an ordinary plantation is rich enough in hues to exhaust the chromatic combinations of an artist's palette . 
The river such as it was here pursued its course amid flagstones as level as a pavement , but divided by crevices of irregular width . 
With the summer drought the torrent had narrowed till it was now but a thread of crystal clearness , meandering along a central channel in the rocky bed of the winter current . 
Knight scrambled through the bushes which at this point nearly covered the brook from sight , and leapt down upon the dry portion of the river bottom . 
'Elfride , I never saw such a sight ! he exclaimed . 
'The hazels overhang the river's course in a perfect arch , and the floor is beautifully paved . 
The place reminds one of the passages of a cloister . 
Let me help you down . 
He assisted her through the marginal underwood and down to the stones . 
Knight , leaning on his elbow , after contemplating all this , looked critically at Elfride . 
'Does not such a luxuriant head of hair exhaust itself and get thin as the years go on from eighteen to eight and twenty ? he asked at length . 
Elfride's troubles sat upon her face as well as in her heart . 
Perhaps to a woman it is almost as dreadful to think of losing her beauty as of losing her reputation . 
At any rate , she looked quite as gloomy as she had looked at any minute that day . 
'You shouldn't be so troubled about a mere personal adornment , said Knight , with some of the severity of tone that had been customary before she had beguiled him into softness . 
'I think it is a woman's duty to be as beautiful as she can . 
If I were a scholar , I would give you chapter and verse for it from one of your own Latin authors . 
I know there is such a passage , for papa has alluded to it . 
'Munditiae , et ornatus , et cultus , c . 
is that it ? A passage in Livy which is no defence at all . 
'No , it is not that . 
'Never mind , then for I have a reason for not taking up my old cudgels against you , Elfie . 
Can you guess what the reason is ? 'No but I am glad to hear it , she said thankfully . 
'For it is dreadful when you talk so . 
For whatever dreadful name the weakness may deserve , I must candidly own that I am terrified to think my hair may ever get thin . 
'Of course a sensible woman would rather lose her wits than her beauty . 
'I don't care if you do say satire and judge me cruelly . 
I know my hair is beautiful everybody says so . 
'Why , my dear Miss Swancourt , he tenderly replied , 'I have not said anything against it . 
But you know what is said about handsome being and handsome doing . 
And lowering her voice 'You ought not to have taken so much trouble to save me from falling over the cliff , for you don't think mine a life worth much trouble evidently . 
'Perhaps you think mine was not worth yours . 
'It was worth anybody's ! Her hand was plashing in the little waterfall , and her eyes were bent the same way . 
'You talk about my severity with you , Elfride . 
You are unkind to me , you know . 
'How ? she asked , looking up from her idle occupation . 
'After my taking trouble to get jewellery to please you , you wouldn't accept it . 
'Perhaps I would now perhaps I want to . 
And the packet was withdrawn from his pocket and presented the third time . 
Elfride took it with delight . 
The obstacle was rent in twain , and the significant gift was hers . 
'I'll take out these ugly ones at once , she exclaimed , 'and I'll wear yours shall I ? 'I should be gratified . 
Now , though it may seem unlikely , considering how far the two had gone in converse , Knight had never yet ventured to kiss Elfride . 
Far slower was he than Stephen Smith in matters like that . 
The utmost advance he had made in such demonstrations had been to the degree witnessed by Stephen in the summer house . 
So Elfride's cheek being still forbidden fruit to him , he said impulsively . 
'Elfie , I should like to touch that seductive ear of yours . 
Those are my gifts so let me dress you in them . 
She hesitated with a stimulating hesitation . 
'Let me put just one in its place , then ? Her face grew much warmer . 
'I don't think it would be quite the usual or proper course , she said , suddenly turning and resuming her operation of plashing in the miniature cataract . 
The stillness of things was disturbed by a bird coming to the streamlet to drink . 
You would mind my doing it but little , I think so give me leave , do . 
'I will be fair , then , she said confidingly , and looking him full in the face . 
It was a particular pleasure to her to be able to do a little honesty without fear . 
'I should not mind your doing so I should like such an attention . 
'And you shall , she whispered , without reserve , and no longer mistress of the ceremonies . 
And then Elfride inclined herself towards him , thrust back her hair , and poised her head sideways . 
In doing this her arm and shoulder necessarily rested against his breast . 
At the touch , the sensation of both seemed to be concentrated at the point of contact . 
All the time he was performing the delicate manoeuvre Knight trembled like a young surgeon in his first operation . 
'Now the other , said Knight in a whisper . 
'Why not ? 'I don't know exactly . 
'Your touch agitates me so . 
'Don't say that , Elfride . 
What is it , after all ? A mere nothing . 
Now turn round , dearest . 
Knight was at once the most ardent and the coolest man alive . 
When his emotions slumbered he appeared almost phlegmatic when they were moved he was no less than passionate . 
And now , without having quite intended an early marriage , he put the question plainly . 
It came with all the ardour which was the accumulation of long years behind a natural reserve . 
'Elfride , when shall we be married ? The words were sweet to her but there was a bitter in the sweet . 
These newly overt acts of his , which had culminated in this plain question , coming on the very day of Mrs. Jethway's blasting reproaches , painted distinctly her fickleness as an enormity . 
Loving him in secret had not seemed such thorough going inconstancy as the same love recognized and acted upon in the face of threats . 
Her distraction was interpreted by him at her side as the outward signs of an unwonted experience . 
'I don't press you for an answer now , darling , he said , seeing she was not likely to give a lucid reply . 
Knight was as honourable a man as was ever loved and deluded by woman . 
It may be said that his blindness in love proved the point , for shrewdness in love usually goes with meanness in general . 
Once the passion had mastered him , the intellect had gone for naught . 
Knight , as a lover , was more single minded and far simpler than his friend Stephen , who in other capacities was shallow beside him . 
Without saying more on the subject of their marriage , Knight held her at arm's length , as if she had been a large bouquet , and looked at her with critical affection . 
'Does your pretty gift become me ? she inquired , with tears of excitement on the fringes of her eyes . 
'Undoubtedly , perfectly ! said her lover , adopting a lighter tone to put her at her ease . 
'Ah , you should see them you look shinier than ever . 
Fancy that I have been able to improve you ! 'Am I really so nice ? I am glad for your sake . 
I wish I could see myself . 
You must wait till we get home . 
'I shall never be able , she said , laughing . 
Well done , woman's wit ! 'Hold me steady ! 'Oh yes . 
'And don't let me fall , will you ? 'By no means . 
Below their seat the thread of water paused to spread out into a smooth small pool . 
Knight supported her whilst she knelt down and leant over it . 
Really , try as religiously as I will , I cannot help admiring my appearance in them . 
How can you be so fond of finery ? I believe you are corrupting me into a taste for it . 
I used to hate every such thing before I knew you . 
'I like ornaments , because I want people to admire what you possess , and envy you , and say , I wish I was he . 
'I suppose I ought not to object after that . 
And how much longer are you going to look in there at yourself ? 'Until you are tired of holding me ? Oh , I want to ask you something . 
'Now tell truly , won't you ? What colour of hair do you like best now ? Knight did not answer at the moment . 
'Say light , do ! she whispered coaxingly . 
'Don't say dark , as you did that time . 
Exactly the colour of my sweetheart's . 
'Really ? said Elfride , enjoying as truth what she knew to be flattery . 
'And blue eyes , too , not hazel ? Say yes , say yes ! 'One recantation is enough for to day . 
'Very well , blue eyes . 
Elfride objected to a second , and flung away her face , the movement causing a slight disarrangement of hat and hair . 
No sooner did she realise the significant words than a troubled look passed across her face , and she shut her lips as if to keep them back . 
'Doing like what ? said Knight , perplexed . 
'Oh , sitting down out of doors , she replied hastily . 
Chapter XXIX 'Care , thou canker . 
It is an evening at the beginning of October , and the mellowest of autumn sunsets irradiates London , even to its uttermost eastern end . 
Between the eye and the flaming West , columns of smoke stand up in the still air like tall trees . 
Everything in the shade is rich and misty blue . 
Mr. and Mrs. Swancourt and Elfride are looking at these lustrous and lurid contrasts from the window of a large hotel near London Bridge . 
The visit to their friends at St . 
Leonards is over , and they are staying a day or two in the metropolis on their way home . 
Knight spent the same interval of time in crossing over to Brittany by way of Jersey and St . 
He then passed through Normandy , and returned to London also , his arrival there having been two days later than that of Elfride and her parents . 
So the evening of this October day saw them all meeting at the above mentioned hotel , where they had previously engaged apartments . 
Elfride looked none the better for her change Knight was as brown as a nut . 
They were soon engaged by themselves in a corner of the room . 
Now that the precious words of promise had been spoken , the young girl had no idea of keeping up her price by the system of reserve which other more accomplished maidens use . 
Her lover was with her again , and it was enough she made her heart over to him entirely . 
And when a preliminary round of conversation concerning their doings since the last parting had been concluded , they reverted to the subject of to morrow's journey home . 
'That enervating ride through the myrtle climate of South Devon how I dread it to morrow ! Mrs. Swancourt was saying . 
'I had hoped the weather would have been cooler by this time . 
'Did you ever go by water ? said Knight . 
'Never by never , I mean not since the time of railways . 
'Then if you can afford an additional day , I propose that we do it , said Knight . 
'The Channel is like a lake just now . 
'Hear , hear ! said the vicar . 
'It's an idea , certainly , said his wife . 
'Of course these coasters are rather tubby , said Knight . 
'But you wouldn't mind that ? 'No we wouldn't mind . 
'And the saloon is a place like the fishmarket of a ninth rate country town , but that wouldn't matter ? 'Oh dear , no . 
If we had only thought of it soon enough , we might have had the use of Lord Luxellian's yacht . 
But never mind , we'll go . 
Presently waggons , bales , and smells of all descriptions increased to such an extent that the advance of the cabs was at the slowest possible rate . 
The vicar put his head out of the window . 
'Surely there must be some mistake in the way , he said with great concern , drawing in his head again . 
'There's not a respectable conveyance to be seen here except ours . 
It is all right , said Mr. Knight , who was as placid as dewy eve by the side of Elfride . 
'But what I argue from , said the vicar , with a greater emphasis of uneasiness , 'are plain appearances . 
This can't be the highway from London to Plymouth by water , because it is no way at all to any place . 
We shall miss our steamer and our train too that's what I think . 
'Depend upon it we are right . 
In fact , here we are . 
'Trimmer's Wharf , said the cabman , opening the door . 
'Never saw such a dreadful scene in my life never ! said Mr. Swancourt , floundering into the boat . 
'Worse than Famine and Sword upon one . 
I thought such customs were confined to continental ports . 
Aren't you astonished , Elfride ? 'Oh no , said Elfride , appearing amid the dingy scene like a rainbow in a murky sky . 
'It is a pleasant novelty , I think . 
'Where in the wide ocean is our steamer ? the vicar inquired . 
'I can see nothing but old hulks , for the life of me . 
'Just behind that one , said Knight 'we shall soon be round under her . 
'Dreadful ! horrible ! Mr. Swancourt murmured privately and said aloud , I thought we walked on board . 
I don't think really I should have come , if I had known this trouble was attached to it . 
'If they must splash , I wish they would splash us with clean water , said the old lady , wiping her dress with her handkerchief . 
'I hope it is perfectly safe , continued the vicar . 
'O papa ! you are not very brave , cried Elfride merrily . 
'Bravery is only obtuseness to the perception of contingencies , Mr. Swancourt severely answered . 
Mr. Swancourt breathed a breath of weariness , and looked at his fellow travellers in general . 
Their faces were certainly not worth looking at . 
The expression 'Waiting' was written upon them so absolutely that nothing more could be discerned there . 
All animation was suspended till Providence should raise the water and let them go . 
'I have been thinking , said Knight , 'that we have come amongst the rarest class of people in the kingdom . 
Of all human characteristics , a low opinion of the value of his own time by an individual must be among the strangest to find . 
Here we see numbers of that patient and happy species . 
Rovers , as distinct from travellers . 
'But they are pleasure seekers , to whom time is of no importance . 
The pleasure seekers we meet on the grand routes are more anxious than commercial travellers to rush on . 
And added to the loss of time in getting to their journey's end , these exceptional people take their chance of sea sickness by coming this way . 
'Can it be ? inquired the vicar with apprehension . 
'Surely not , Mr. Knight , just here in our English Channel close at our doors , as I may say . 
'Entrance passages are very draughty places , and the Channel is like the rest . 
It ruins the temper of sailors . 
It has been calculated by philosophers that more damns go up to heaven from the Channel , in the course of a year , than from all the five oceans put together . 
They really start now , and the dead looks of all the throng come to life immediately . 
The man who has been frantically hauling in a rope that bade fair to have no end ceases his labours , and they glide down the serpentine bends of the Thames . 
Anything anywhere was a mine of interest to Elfride , and so was this . 
'It is well enough now , said Mrs. Swancourt , after they had passed the Nore , 'but I can't say I have cared for my voyage hitherto . 
For being now in the open sea a slight breeze had sprung up , which cheered her as well as her two younger companions . 
Mrs. Swancourt kindly sat apart by herself reading , and the betrothed pair were left to themselves . 
'I expect they are envious and saying things about us , don't you ? she would whisper to Knight with a stealthy smile . 
'Oh no , he would answer unconcernedly . 
What makes it worse , she continued in the extremity of confidence , 'I heard those two cricketing men say just now , She's the nobbiest girl on the boat . 
But I don't mind it , you know , Harry . 
'I should hardly have supposed you did , even if you had not told me , said Knight with great blandness . 
She was never tired of asking her lover questions and admiring his answers , good , bad , or indifferent as they might be . 
The evening grew dark and night came on , and lights shone upon them from the horizon and from the sky . 
'Now look there ahead of us , at that halo in the air , of silvery brightness . 
Watch it , and you will see what it comes to . 
She watched for a few minutes , when two white lights emerged from the side of a hill , and showed themselves to be the origin of the halo . 
'What a dazzling brilliance ! What do they mark ? 'The South Foreland they were previously covered by the cliff . 
'What is that level line of little sparkles a town , I suppose ? 'That's Dover . 
Elfride slept soundly that night . 
This fair daybreak , however , soon changed its aspect . 
A cold wind and a pale mist descended upon the sea , and seemed to threaten a dreary day . 
'He will be perfectly well directly he treads firm ground again . 
'Oh , don't let us go on shore ! she said with dismay . 
'It would be such a pity ! 'That's very fine , said Mrs. Swancourt archly , as to a child . 
'See , the wind has increased her colour , the sea her appetite and spirits , and somebody her happiness . 
Yes , it would be a pity , certainly . 
''Tis my misfortune to be always spoken to from a pedestal , sighed Elfride . 
'Well , we will do as you like , Mrs. Swancourt , said Knight , 'but 'I myself would rather remain on board , interrupted the elder lady . 
'And Mr. Swancourt particularly wishes to go by himself . 
So that shall settle the matter . 
The vicar , now a drab colour , was put ashore , and became as well as ever forthwith . 
Elfride , sitting alone in a retired part of the vessel , saw a veiled woman walk aboard among the very latest arrivals at this port . 
She was clothed in black silk , and carried a dark shawl upon her arm . 
The woman , without looking around her , turned to the quarter allotted to the second cabin passengers . 
All the carnation Mrs. Swancourt had complimented her step daughter upon possessing left Elfride's cheeks , and she trembled visibly . 
She ran to the other side of the boat , where Mrs. Swancourt was standing . 
'Let us go home by railway with papa , after all , she pleaded earnestly . 
'I would rather go with him shall we ? Mrs. Swancourt looked around for a moment , as if unable to decide . 
'Ah , she exclaimed , 'it is too late now . 
There was no help for it but to remain , unless the Juliet could be made to put back , and that would create a great disturbance . 
Elfride gave up the idea and submitted quietly . 
Her happiness was sadly mutilated now . 
The woman whose presence had so disturbed her was exactly like Mrs. Jethway . 
She seemed to haunt Elfride like a shadow . 
'What is the matter , Elfride ? Knight inquired , standing before her . 
'Nothing more than that I am rather depressed . 
'I don't much wonder at it that wharf was depressing . 
We seemed underneath and inferior to everything around us . 
But we shall be in the sea breeze again soon , and that will freshen you , dear . 
The evening closed in and dusk increased as they made way down Southampton Water and through the Solent . 
Elfride's disturbance of mind was such that her light spirits of the foregoing four and twenty hours had entirely deserted her . 
The weather too had grown more gloomy , for though the showers of the morning had ceased , the sky was covered more closely than ever with dense leaden clouds . 
How beautiful was the sunset when they rounded the North Foreland the previous evening ! now it was impossible to tell within half an hour the time of the luminary's going down . 
Knight led her about , and being by this time accustomed to her sudden changes of mood , overlooked the necessity of a cause in regarding the conditions impressionableness and elasticity . 
Elfride looked stealthily to the other end of the vessel . 
Mrs. Jethway , or her double , was sitting at the stern her eye steadily regarding Elfride . 
'Let us go to the forepart , she said quickly to Knight . 
'See there the man is fixing the lights for the night . 
Elfride's eyes were occasionally to be found furtively gazing abaft , to learn if her enemy were really there . 
'Shall we go below ? said Knight , seeing that the deck was nearly deserted . 
'If you will kindly get me a rug from Mrs. Swancourt , I should like , if you don't mind , to stay here . 
She had recently fancied the assumed Mrs. Jethway might be a first class passenger , and dreaded meeting her by accident . 
It became necessary to go below to an eight o'clock meal of nondescript kind , and Elfride was immensely relieved at finding no sign of Mrs. Jethway there . 
They again ascended , and remained above till Mrs. Snewson staggered up to them with the message that Mrs. Swancourt thought it was time for Elfride to come below . 
Knight accompanied her down , and returned again to pass a little more time on deck . 
'You are well on with him , I can see . 
Well , provoke me now , but my day will come , you will find . 
That seemed to be the utterance , or words to that effect . 
Elfride became broad awake and terrified . 
She knew the words , if real , could be only those of one person , and that person the widow Jethway . 
The lamp had gone out and the place was in darkness . 
In the next berth she could hear her stepmother breathing heavily , further on Snewson breathing more heavily still . 
Now almost fearing to turn her face inwards again , lest Mrs. Jethway should appear at her elbow , Elfride meditated upon whether to call Snewson to keep her company . 
'Four bells sounded , and she heard voices , which gave her a little courage . 
It was not worth while to call Snewson . 
At any rate Elfride could not stay there panting longer , at the risk of being again disturbed by that dreadful whispering . 
Dreary the place was in the extreme . 
It seemed a new spot altogether in contrast with its daytime self . 
She could see the glowworm light from the binnacle , and the dim outline of the man at the wheel also a form at the bows . 
Not another soul was apparent from stem to stern . 
Yes , there were two more by the bulwarks . 
One proved to be her Harry , the other the mate . 
She was glad indeed , and on drawing closer found they were holding a low slow chat about nautical affairs . 
She ran up and slipped her hand through Knight's arm , partly for love , partly for stability . 
'Elfie ! not asleep ? said Knight , after moving a few steps aside with her . 
May I stay here ? It is so dismal down there , and and I was afraid . 
Where are we now ? 'Due south of Portland Bill . 
Those are the lights abeam of us look . 
A terrible spot , that , on a stormy night . 
Between it and ourselves is the Race a place where antagonistic currents meet and form whirlpools a spot which is rough in the smoothest weather , and terrific in a wind . 
That dark , dreary horizon we just discern to the left is the West Bay , terminated landwards by the Chesil Beach . 
'What time is it , Harry ? 'Just past two . 
'Are you going below ? 'Oh no not to night . 
She fancied he might be displeased with her for coming to him at this unearthly hour . 
'I should like to stay here too , if you will allow me , she said timidly . 
'I want to ask you things . 
'Allow you , Elfie ! said Knight , putting his arm round her and drawing her closer . 
'I am twice as happy with you by my side . 
Yes we will stay , and watch the approach of day . 
So they again sought out the sheltered nook , and sitting down wrapped themselves in the rug as before . 
'What were you going to ask me ? he inquired , as they undulated up and down . 
'Oh , it was not much perhaps a thing I ought not to ask , she said hesitatingly . 
Her sudden wish had really been to discover at once whether he had ever before been engaged to be married . 
If he had , she would make that a ground for telling him a little of her conduct with Stephen . 
Mrs. Jethway's seeming words had so depressed the girl that she herself now painted her flight in the darkest colours , and longed to ease her burdened mind by an instant confession . 
If Knight had ever been imprudent himself , he might , she hoped , forgive all . 
'I wanted to ask you , she went on , 'if you had ever been engaged before . 
She added tremulously , 'I hope you have I mean , I don't mind at all if you have . 
'No , I never was , Knight instantly and heartily replied . 
'You are cold is the wind too much for you ? 'No , she said gloomily . 
The belief which had been her sheet anchor in hoping for forgiveness had proved false . 
This account of the exceptional nature of his experience , a matter which would have set her rejoicing two years ago , chilled her now like a frost . 
'You don't mind my asking you ? she continued . 
'Oh no not at all . 
'And have you never kissed many ladies ? she whispered , hoping he would say a hundred at the least . 
The time , the circumstances , and the scene were such as to draw confidences from the most reserved . 
'Elfride , whispered Knight in reply , 'it is strange you should have asked that question . 
But I'll answer it , though I have never told such a thing before . 
I have been rather absurd in my avoidance of women . 
I have never given a woman a kiss in my life , except yourself and my mother . 
The man of two and thirty with the experienced mind warmed all over with a boy's ingenuous shame as he made the confession . 
'What , not one ? she faltered . 
'How very strange ! 'Yes , the reverse experience may be commoner . 
And yet , to those who have observed their own sex , as I have , my case is not remarkable . 
Men about town are women's favourites that's the postulate and superficial people don't think far enough to see that there may be reserved , lonely exceptions . 
'Are you proud of it , Harry ? 'No , indeed . 
Of late years I have wished I had gone my ways and trod out my measure like lighter hearted men . 
I have thought of how many happy experiences I may have lost through never going to woo . 
'Then why did you hold aloof ? 'I cannot say . 
I don't think it was my nature to circumstance hindered me , perhaps . 
I have regretted it for another reason . 
This great remissness of mine has had its effect upon me . 
Then I found you , Elfride , and l felt for the first time that my fastidiousness was a blessing . 
And it helped to make me worthy of you . 
I felt at once that , differing as we did in other experiences , in this matter I resembled you . 
Well , aren't you glad to hear it , Elfride ? 'Yes , I am , she answered in a forced voice . 
'But I always had thought that men made lots of engagements before they married especially if they don't marry very young . 
'So all women think , I suppose and rightly , indeed , of the majority of bachelors , as I said before . 
But an appreciable minority of slow coach men do not and it makes them very awkward when they do come to the point . 
However , it didn't matter in my case . 
'Why ? she asked uneasily . 
'Because you know even less of love making and matrimonial prearrangement than I , and so you can't draw invidious comparisons if I do my engaging improperly . 
'I think you do it beautifully ! 'Thank you , dear . 
But , continued Knight laughingly , 'your opinion is not that of an expert , which alone is of value . 
Had she answered , 'Yes , it is , half as strongly as she felt it , Knight might have been a little astonished . 
'If you had ever been engaged to be married before , he went on , 'I expect your opinion of my addresses would be different . 
'You are severe on women , are you not ? 'No , I think not . 
I had a right to please my taste , and that was for untried lips . 
'Two ? 'Well I could hardly say inventorially like that . 
Too much of that sort of thing certainly would make me dislike a woman . 
But let us confine our attention to ourselves , not go thinking of might have beens . 
So Elfride had allowed her thoughts to 'dally with false surmise , and every one of Knight's words fell upon her like a weight . 
After this they were silent for a long time , gazing upon the black mysterious sea , and hearing the strange voice of the restless wind . 
A rocking to and fro on the waves , when the breeze is not too violent and cold , produces a soothing effect even upon the most highly wrought mind . 
Elfride slowly sank against Knight , and looking down , he found by her soft regular breathing that she had fallen asleep . 
Not wishing to disturb her , he continued still , and took an intense pleasure in supporting her warm young form as it rose and fell with her every breath . 
Knight fell to dreaming too , though he continued wide awake . 
More than all , the musing unpractical student felt the immense responsibility he was taking upon himself by becoming the protector and guide of such a trusting creature . 
The quiet slumber of her soul lent a quietness to his own . 
Then she moaned , and turned herself restlessly . 
Presently her mutterings became distinct 'Don't tell him he will not love me . 
I did not mean any disgrace indeed I did not , so don't tell Harry . 
We were going to be married that was why I ran away . 
And he says he will not have a kissed woman . 
And if you tell him he will go away , and I shall die . 
I pray have mercy Oh ! Elfride started up wildly . 
The previous moment a musical ding dong had spread into the air from their right hand , and awakened her . 
'What is it ? she exclaimed in terror . 
'Only eight bells , said Knight soothingly . 
'Don't be frightened , little bird , you are safe . 
What have you been dreaming about ? 'I can't tell , I can't tell ! she said with a shudder . 
'Oh , I don't know what to do ! 'Stay quietly with me . 
We shall soon see the dawn now . 
Look , the morning star is lovely over there . 
The clouds have completely cleared off whilst you have been sleeping . 
What have you been dreaming of ? 'A woman in our parish . 
'Don't you like her ? 'I don't . 
Where are we ? 'About south of the Exe . 
Knight said no more on the words of her dream . 
They watched the sky till Elfride grew calm , and the dawn appeared . 
It was mere wan lightness first . 
Then the wind blew in a changed spirit , and died away to a zephyr . 
The star dissolved into the day . 
'That's how I should like to die , said Elfride , rising from her seat and leaning over the bulwark to watch the star's last expiring gleam . 
'Oh , other people have thought the same thing , have they ? That's always the case with my originalities they are original to nobody but myself . 
'Not only the case with yours . 
Whenever I find you have done a foolish thing I am glad , because it seems to bring you a little nearer to me , who have done many . 
And Elfride thought again of her enemy asleep under the deck they trod . 
All up the coast , prominences singled themselves out from recesses . 
Then a rosy sky spread over the eastern sea and behind the low line of land , flinging its livery in dashes upon the thin airy clouds in that direction . 
Their lofty neighbour Bolt Head on the left remained as yet ungilded , and retained its gray . 
After breakfast , Plymouth arose into view , and grew distincter to their nearing vision , the Breakwater appearing like a streak of phosphoric light upon the surface of the sea . 
Elfride looked furtively around for Mrs. Jethway , but could discern no shape like hers . 
Afterwards , in the bustle of landing , she looked again with the same result , by which time the woman had probably glided upon the quay unobserved . 
Chapter XXX 'Vassal unto Love . 
Elfride clung closer to Knight as day succeeded day . 
Whatever else might admit of question , there could be no dispute that the allegiance she bore him absorbed her whole soul and existence . 
A greater than Stephen had arisen , and she had left all to follow him . 
The unreserved girl was never chary of letting her lover discover how much she admired him . 
She was syringing the plants one wet day in the greenhouse . 
Knight was sitting under a great passion flower observing the scene . 
'I must give you something to make you think of me during this autumn at your chambers , she was saying . 
'What shall it be ? Portraits do more harm than good , by selecting the worst expression of which your face is capable . 
And you don't like jewellery . 
'Something which shall bring back to my mind the many scenes we have enacted in this conservatory . 
I see what I should prize very much . 
That dwarf myrtle tree in the pot , which you have been so carefully tending . 
Elfride looked thoughtfully at the myrtle . 
'I can carry it comfortably in my hat box , said Knight . 
'And I will put it in my window , and so , it being always before my eyes , I shall think of you continually . 
It so happened that the myrtle which Knight had singled out had a peculiar beginning and history . 
She looked wistfully at the plant , and a sense of fairness to Smith's memory caused her a pang of regret that Knight should have asked for that very one . 
It seemed exceeding a common heartlessness to let it go . 
'Is there not anything you like better ? she said sadly . 
'That is only an ordinary myrtle . 
'No I am fond of myrtle . 
Ah , here's another cutting lately struck , and just as small of a better kind , and with prettier leaves myrtus microphylla . 
Let it be put in my room , that I may not forget it . 
What romance attaches to the other ? 'It was a gift to me . 
Knight thought no more of the matter till , on entering his bedroom in the evening , he found the second myrtle placed upon his dressing table as he had directed . 
He stood for a moment admiring the fresh appearance of the leaves by candlelight , and then he thought of the transaction of the day . 
'Why should she have refused the one I first chose ? he now asked himself . 
Even such slight opposition as she had shown then was exceptional enough to make itself noticeable . 
He was not vexed with her in the least the mere variation of her way to day from her usual ways kept him musing on the subject , because it perplexed him . 
'It was a gift' those were her words . 
'Except , indeed , it was the gift of a lover , he murmured . 
'I wonder if Elfride has ever had a lover before ? he said aloud , as a new idea , quite . 
This and companion thoughts were enough to occupy him completely till he fell asleep rather later than usual . 
'I mean the confession you coaxed out of me that I had never been in the position of lover before . 
'It is a satisfaction , I suppose , to be the first in your heart , she said to him , with an attempt to continue her smiling . 
'I am going to ask you a question now , said Knight , somewhat awkwardly . 
'I only ask it in a whimsical way , you know not with great seriousness , Elfride . 
You may think it odd , perhaps . 
Elfride tried desperately to keep the colour in her face . 
She could not , though distressed to think that getting pale showed consciousness of deeper guilt than merely getting red . 
'Oh no I shall not think that , she said , because obliged to say something to fill the pause which followed her questioner's remark . 
Knight , overstrained in sentiment as he knew the feeling to be , felt some sickness of heart . 
'Still , he was a lover ? 'Well , a sort of lover , I suppose , she responded tardily . 
'A man , I mean , you know . 
'Yes but only a mere person , and 'But truly your lover ? 'Yes a lover certainly he was that . 
Yes , he might have been called my lover . 
'You don't mind , Harry , do you ? she said anxiously , nestling close to him , and watching his face . 
'Of course , I don't seriously mind . 
In reason , a man cannot object to such a trifle . 
I only thought you hadn't that was all . 
However , one ray was abstracted from the glory about her head . 
But afterwards , when Knight was wandering by himself over the bare and breezy hills , and meditating on the subject , that ray suddenly returned . 
For she might have had a lover , and never have cared in the least for him . 
She might have used the word improperly , and meant 'admirer' all the time . 
Of course she had been admired and one man might have made his admiration more prominent than that of the rest a very natural case . 
They were sitting on one of the garden seats when he found occasion to put the supposition to the test . 
'Did you love that lover or admirer of yours ever so little , Elfie ? She murmured reluctantly , 'Yes , I think I did . 
Knight felt the same faint touch of misery . 
'Only a very little ? he said . 
'I am not sure how much . 
'But you are sure , darling , you loved him a little ? 'I think I am sure I loved him a little . 
'And not a great deal , Elfie ? 'My love was not supported by reverence for his powers . 
'But , Elfride , did you love him deeply ? said Knight restlessly . 
'I don't exactly know how deep you mean by deeply . 
'You misapprehend and you have let go my hand ! she cried , her eyes filling with tears . 
'Harry , don't be severe with me , and don't question me . 
I did not love him as I do you . 
And could it be deeply if I did not think him cleverer than myself ? For I did not . 
You grieve me so much you can't think . 
'I will not say another word about it . 
'What advantages would they be ? 'Less anxiety , and more security . 
'Yes I suppose it is right . 
Shallowness has this advantage , that you can't be drowned there . 
'But I think I'll have you as you are yes , I will ! she said winsomely . 
'The practical husbands and wives who take things philosophically are very humdrum , are they not ? Yes , it would kill me quite . 
You please me best as you are . 
'Even though I wish you had never cared for one before me ? 'Yes . 
And you must not wish it . 
Don't ! 'I'll try not to , Elfride . 
So she hoped , but her heart was troubled . 
The thought enclosed her as a tomb whenever it presented itself to her perturbed brain . 
For what he might consider as bad as the fact , was her previous concealment of it by strategy . 
But Elfride knew Mrs. Jethway to be her enemy , and to hate her . 
It was possible she would do her worst . 
And should she do it , all might be over . 
Would the woman listen to reason , and be persuaded not to ruin one who had never intentionally harmed her ? It was night in the valley between Endelstow Crags and the shore . 
The brook which trickled that way to the sea was distinct in its murmurs now , and over the line of its course there began to hang a white riband of fog . 
Against the sky , on the left hand of the vale , the black form of the church could be seen . 
On the other rose hazel bushes , a few trees , and where these were absent , furze tufts as tall as men on stems nearly as stout as timber . 
The shriek of some bird was occasionally heard , as it flew terror stricken from its first roost , to seek a new sleeping place , where it might pass the night unmolested . 
In the evening shade , some way down the valley , and under a row of scrubby oaks , a cottage could still be discerned . 
The house was rather large , and the windows of some of the rooms were nailed up with boards on the outside , which gave a particularly deserted appearance to the whole erection . 
This was evidently the means of water supply to the dweller or dwellers in the cottage . 
A light footstep was heard descending from the higher slopes of the hillside . 
Indistinct in the pathway appeared a moving female shape , who advanced and knocked timidly at the door . 
No answer being returned the knock was repeated , with the same result , and it was then repeated a third time . 
So few walked that way after nightfall that any such means to secure secrecy were probably deemed unnecessary . 
The inequality of the rays falling upon the trees outside told that the light had its origin in a flickering fire only . 
The visitor , after the third knocking , stepped a little to the left in order to gain a view of the interior , and threw back the hood from her face . 
The dancing yellow sheen revealed the fair and anxious countenance of Elfride . 
It also showed to Elfride that the room was empty . 
Beyond the light quiver and flap of the flames nothing moved or was audible therein . 
Then advancing to the foot of the staircase she called distinctly , but somewhat fearfully , 'Mrs . 
Determining to wait , she sat down on a chair . 
Then taking out a pencil she wrote upon the paper 'DEAR MRS . 
JETHWAY , I have been to visit you . 
I wanted much to see you , but I cannot wait any longer . 
I came to beg you not to execute the threats you have repeated to me . 
Do not , I beseech you , Mrs. Jethway , let any one know I ran away from home ! It would ruin me with him , and break my heart . 
I will do anything for you , if you will be kind to me . 
In the name of our common womanhood , do not , I implore you , make a scandal of me . 
She folded the note cornerwise , directed it , and placed it on the table . 
Then again drawing the hood over her curly head she emerged silently as she had come . 
Whilst this episode had been in action at Mrs. Jethway's cottage , Knight had gone from the dining room into the drawing room , and found Mrs. Swancourt there alone . 
'Elfride has vanished upstairs or somewhere , she said . 
Well , Harry , with due deference to your literary powers , allow me to say that this effusion is all nonsense , in my opinion . 
'What is it about ? said Knight , taking up the paper and reading . 
'There don't get red about it . 
Own that experience has taught you to be more charitable . 
I have never read such unchivalrous sentiments in my life from a man , I mean . 
There , I forgive you it was before you knew Elfride . 
'Oh yes , said Knight , looking up . 
I thought the idea rather ingenious at the time , and enlarged it to the weight of a few guineas , because I had nothing else in my head . 
'Which idea do you call the text ? I am curious to know that . 
'Well , this , said Knight , somewhat unwillingly . 
'And do you mean to say that you wrote that upon the strength of another man's remark , without having tested it by practice ? 'Yes indeed I do . 
'Then I think it was uncalled for and unfair . 
And how do you know it is true ? I expect you regret it now . 
'Since you bring me into a serious mood , I will speak candidly . 
I do believe that remark to be perfectly true , and , having written it , I would defend it anywhere . 
But I do often regret having ever written it , as well as others of the sort . 
I have grown older since , and I find such a tone of writing is calculated to do harm in the world . 
'Ah , Henry , you have fallen in love since and it makes a difference , said Mrs. Swancourt with a faint tone of banter . 
'That's true but that is not my reason . 
'Having found that , in a case of your own experience , a so called goose was a swan , it seems absurd to deny such a possibility in other men's experiences . 
'You can hit palpably , cousin Charlotte , said Knight . 
'You are like the boy who puts a stone inside his snowball , and I shall play with you no longer . 
Excuse me I am going for my evening stroll . 
Though Knight had spoken jestingly , this incident and conversation had caused him a sudden depression . 
He thought again of those idle words hitherto quite forgotten about the first kiss of a girl , and the theory seemed more than reasonable . 
Of course their sting now lay in their bearing on Elfride . 
Elfride , under Knight's kiss , had certainly been a very different woman from herself under Stephen's . 
Knight , with all the rapidity of jealous sensitiveness , pounced upon some words she had inadvertently let fall about an earring , which he had only partially understood at the time . 
It was during that 'initial kiss' by the little waterfall 'We must be careful . 
'I always meant to be the first comer in a woman's heart , fresh lips or none for me . 
It was his belief in the absolute newness of blandishment to Elfride which had constituted her primary charm . 
He began to think it was as hard to be earliest in a woman's heart as it was to be first in the Pool of Bethesda . 
A miserable incongruity was apparent in the circumstance of a strong mind practising its unerring archery upon a heart which the owner of that mind loved better than his own . 
Elfride's docile devotion to Knight was now its own enemy . 
Clinging to him so dependently , she taught him in time to presume upon that devotion a lesson men are not slow to learn . 
A slight rebelliousness occasionally would have done him no harm , and would have been a world of advantage to her . 
But she idolized him , and was proud to be his bond servant . 
Chapter XXXI 'A worm i' the bud . 
One day the reviewer said , 'Let us go to the cliffs again , Elfride and , without consulting her wishes , he moved as if to start at once . 
'The cliff of our dreadful adventure ? she inquired , with a shudder . 
'Death stares me in the face in the person of that cliff . 
Nevertheless , so entirely had she sunk her individuality in his that the remark was not uttered as an expostulation , and she immediately prepared to accompany him . 
'No , not that place , said Knight . 
'It is ghastly to me , too . 
That other , I mean what is its name ? Windy Beak . 
Moreover , it was the cliff to which Elfride had ridden with Stephen Smith , on a well remembered morning of his summer visit . 
That place was worse than gloomy , it was a perpetual reproach to her . 
But not liking to refuse , she said , 'It is further than the other cliff . 
'Yes but you can ride . 
'And will you too ? 'No , I'll walk . 
A duplicate of her original arrangement with Stephen . 
Some fatality must be hanging over her head . 
'Very well , Harry , I'll ride , she said meekly . 
A quarter of an hour later she was in the saddle . 
But how different the mood from that of the former time . 
She had , indeed , given up her position as queen of the less to be vassal of the greater . 
Here was no showing off now no scampering out of sight with Pansy , to perplex and tire her companion no saucy remarks on LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI . 
Elfride was burdened with the very intensity of her love . 
Knight did most of the talking along the journey . 
Knight sat down , and drew Elfride deftly beside him , and they looked over the sea . 
Two or three degrees above that melancholy and eternally level line , the ocean horizon , hung a sun of brass , with no visible rays , in a sky of ashen hue . 
It was a sky the sun did not illuminate or enkindle , as is usual at sunsets . 
This sheet of sky was met by the salt mass of gray water , flecked here and there with white . 
A waft of dampness occasionally rose to their faces , which was probably rarefied spray from the blows of the sea upon the foot of the cliff . 
Elfride wished it could be a longer time ago that she had sat there with Stephen as her lover , and agreed to be his wife . 
The significant closeness of that time to the present was another item to add to the list of passionate fears which were chronic with her now . 
Yet Knight was very tender this evening , and sustained her close to him as they sat . 
Probably they have , for the place seems formed for a seat . 
Many people who lose a trinket involuntarily give a momentary look for it in passing the spot ever so long afterwards . 
They do not often find it . 
Elfride , in turning her head , saw something shine weakly from a crevice in the rocky sedile . 
Elfride's thoughts instantly reverted to the words she had unintentionally uttered upon what had been going on when the earring was lost . 
And she was immediately seized with a misgiving that Knight , on seeing the object , would be reminded of her words . 
Her instinctive act therefore was to secure it privately . 
It was so deep in the crack that Elfride could not pull it out with her hand , though she made several surreptitious trials . 
'What are you doing , Elfie ? said Knight , noticing her attempts , and looking behind him likewise . 
She had relinquished the endeavour , but too late . 
Knight peered into the joint from which her hand had been withdrawn , and saw what she had seen . 
He instantly took a penknife from his pocket , and by dint of probing and scraping brought the earring out upon open ground . 
'It is not yours , surely ? he inquired . 
'Yes , it is , she said quietly . 
The unfortunate remark of hers at the kiss came into his mind , if eyes were ever an index to be trusted . 
'Were you really engaged to be married to that lover ? he said , looking straight forward at the sea again . 
Yet I think I was . 
'O Elfride , engaged to be married ! he murmured . 
'It would have been called a secret engagement , I suppose . 
But don't look so disappointed don't blame me . 
'Why do you say No , no , in such a way ? Sweetly enough , but so barely ? Knight made no direct reply to this . 
'Elfride , I told you once , he said , following out his thoughts , 'that I never kissed a woman as a sweetheart until I kissed you . 
A kiss is not much , I suppose , and it happens to few young people to be able to avoid all blandishments and attentions except from the one they afterwards marry . 
But I have peculiar weaknesses , Elfride and because I have led a peculiar life , I must suffer for it , I suppose . 
I had hoped well , what I had no right to hope in connection with you . 
You naturally granted your former lover the privileges you grant me . 
A 'yes' came from her like the last sad whisper of a breeze . 
'And he used to kiss you of course he did . 
'And perhaps you allowed him a more free manner in his love making than I have shown in mine . 
'No , I did not . 
This was rather more alertly spoken . 
'But he adopted it without being allowed ? 'Yes . 
'How much I have made of you , Elfride , and how I have kept aloof ! said Knight in deep and shaken tones . 
'So many days and hours as I have hoped in you I have feared to kiss you more than those two times . 
And he made no scruples to . 
She crept closer to him and trembled as if with cold . 
Her dread that the whole story , with random additions , would become known to him , caused her manner to be so agitated that Knight was alarmed and perplexed into stillness . 
The actual innocence which made her think so fearfully of what , as the world goes , was not a great matter , magnified her apparent guilt . 
It may have said to Knight that a woman who was so flurried in the preliminaries must have a dreadful sequel to her tale . 
'I know , continued Knight , with an indescribable drag of manner and intonation , 'I know I am absurdly scrupulous about you that I want you too exclusively mine . 
In your past before you knew me from your very cradle I wanted to think you had been mine . 
I would make you mine by main force . 
Knight's face was hard , and he never looked at her at all , still fixing his gaze far out to sea , which the sun had now resigned to the shade . 
Upon the dull expanse of sea there gradually intensified itself into existence the gleam of a distant light ship . 
'When that lover first kissed you , Elfride was it in such a place as this ? 'Yes , it was . 
'You don't tell me anything but what I wring out of you . 
Confidence would have been so much more promising for our happiness . 
If you had had confidence in me , and told me willingly , I should be different . 
But you suppress everything , and I shall question you . 
Did you live at Endelstow at that time ? 'Yes , she said faintly . 
'Where were you when he first kissed you ? 'Sitting in this seat . 
'Ah , I thought so ! said Knight , rising and facing her . 
'And that accounts for everything the exclamation which you explained deceitfully , and all ! Forgive the harsh word , Elfride forgive it . 
'Never mind , never mind , he exclaimed , on seeing her tears and perturbation . 
'I don't want to grieve you . 
'It makes no difference , you know , he continued , seeing she did not reply . 
'I feel cold , said Elfride . 
I daresay the horse is impatient . 
Knight spoke the merest commonplace to her now . 
He had hoped to the last moment that she would have volunteered the whole story of her first attachment . 
It grew more and more distasteful to him that she should have a secret of this nature . 
The poison of suspicion was doing its work well . 
An incident occurred on this homeward journey which was long remembered by both , as adding shade to shadow . 
'It was only a quotation . 
They had now dropped into a hollow , and the church tower made its appearance against the pale evening sky , its lower part being hidden by some intervening trees . 
Elfride , being denied an answer , was looking at the tower and trying to think of some contrasting quotation she might use to regain his tenderness . 
After a little thought she said in winning tones Thou hast been my hope , and a strong tower for me against the enemy . 
A few minutes later three or four birds were seen to fly out of the tower . 
'The strong tower moves , said Knight , with surprise . 
A corner of the square mass swayed forward , sank , and vanished . 
A loud rumble followed , and a cloud of dust arose where all had previously been so clear . 
'The church restorers have done it ! said Elfride . 
At this minute Mr. Swancourt was seen approaching them . 
He came up with a bustling demeanour , apparently much engrossed by some business in hand . 
'We have got the tower down ! he exclaimed . 
'It came rather quicker than we intended it should . 
The first idea was to take it down stone by stone , you know . 
In doing this the crack widened considerably , and it was not believed safe for the men to stand upon the walls any longer . 
Then we decided to undermine it , and three men set to work at the weakest corner this afternoon . 
They had left off for the evening , intending to give the final blow to morrow morning , and had been home about half an hour , when down it came . 
A very successful job a very fine job indeed . 
But he was a tough old fellow in spite of the crack . 
Here Mr. Swancourt wiped from his face the perspiration his excitement had caused him . 
'Poor old tower ! said Elfride . 
'Yes , I am sorry for it , said Knight . 
'It was an interesting piece of antiquity a local record of local art . 
Not in the barbarous clumsy architecture of this neighbourhood you see nothing so rough and pagan anywhere else in England . 
When the men are gone , I would advise you to go and see the church before anything further is done to it . 
You can now sit in the chancel , and look down the nave through the west arch , and through that far out to sea . 
However , after dinner , when the moon has risen , go up and see for yourselves . 
Knight assented with feverish readiness . 
Elfride would gladly have escaped further converse alone with him that night , but it seemed inevitable . 
Just after moonrise they left the house . 
Chapter XXXII 'Had I wist before I kist' It was now October , and the night air was chill . 
On reaching the church they found that one side of the tower was , as the vicar had stated , entirely removed , and lying in the shape of rubbish at their feet . 
The tower on its eastern side still was firm , and might have withstood the shock of storms and the siege of battering years for many a generation even now . 
They entered by the side door , went eastward , and sat down by the altar steps . 
The heavy arch spanning the junction of tower and nave formed to night a black frame to a distant misty view , stretching far westward . 
Just outside the arch came the heap of fallen stones , then a portion of moonlit churchyard , then the wide and convex sea behind . 
Presently the moon became covered by a cloud , and the iridescence died away . 
'There , it is gone ! said Knight . 
'I've been thinking , Elfride , that this place we sit on is where we may hope to kneel together soon . 
But I am restless and uneasy , and you know why . 
Before she replied the moonlight returned again , irradiating that portion of churchyard within their view . 
It brightened the near part first , and against the background which the cloud shadow had not yet uncovered stood , brightest of all , a white tomb the tomb of young Jethway . 
Knight , still alive on the subject of Elfride's secret , thought of her words concerning the kiss that it once had occurred on a tomb in this churchyard . 
Was that the tomb you alluded to as having sat on with him ? She waited an instant . 
Elfride did not even now go on with the explanation her exacting lover wished to have , and her reticence began to irritate him as before . 
He was inclined to read her a lecture . 
'Why don't you tell me all ? he said somewhat indignantly . 
'Elfride , there is not a single subject upon which I feel more strongly than upon this that everything ought to be cleared up between two persons before they become husband and wife . 
See how desirable and wise such a course is , in order to avoid disagreeable contingencies in the form of discoveries afterwards . 
For , Elfride , a secret of no importance at all may be made the basis of some fatal misunderstanding only because it is discovered , and not confessed . 
They say there never was a couple of whom one had not some secret the other never knew or was intended to know . 
This may or may not be true but if it be true , some have been happy in spite rather than in consequence of it . 
It would embitter our lives , if I were then half in the dark , as I am now ! Knight spoke the latter sentences with growing force . 
'It cannot be , she said . 
'Why not ? he asked sharply . 
Elfride was distressed to find him in so stern a mood , and she trembled . 
'But , let me see what did you say about that tomb and him ? 'That's his tomb , she continued faintly . 
'What ! was he who lies buried there the man who was your lover ? Knight asked in a distinct voice . 
'Yes and I didn't love him or encourage him . 
'But you let him kiss you you said so , you know , Elfride . 
'Why , said Knight , recollecting circumstances by degrees , 'you surely said you were in some degree engaged to him and of course you were if he kissed you . 
And now you say you never encouraged him . 
And I have been fancying you said I am almost sure you did that you were sitting with him ON that tomb . 
Good God ! he cried , suddenly starting up in anger , 'are you telling me untruths ? Why should you play with me like this ? I'll have the right of it . 
Elfride , we shall never be happy ! There's a blight upon us , or me , or you , and it must be cleared off before we marry . 
Knight moved away impetuously as if to leave her . 
She jumped up and clutched his arm 'Don't go , Harry don't ! 'Tell me , then , said Knight sternly . 
'And remember this , no more fibs , or , upon my soul , I shall hate you . 
'Did you say you were sitting on that tomb ? he asked moodily . 
'Yes and it was true . 
'Then how , in the name of Heaven , can a man sit upon his own tomb ? 'That was another man . 
'Now , don't be a silly woman with your supposing I hate all that , said Knight contemptuously almost . 
'Well , we learn strange things . 
Knight , in moody meditation , continued looking towards the tomb , which stood staring them in the face like an avenging ghost . 
'But you wrong me Oh , so grievously ! she cried . 
'I did not meditate any such thing believe me , Harry , I did not . 
It only happened so quite of itself . 
'Well , I suppose you didn't INTEND such a thing , he said . 
'Nobody ever does , he sadly continued . 
'And him in the grave I never once loved . 
'You don't choose to be anything but reserved , then ? he said imperatively . 
'Of course we did , she responded . 
Of course ! You seem to treat the subject very lightly ? 'It is past , and is nothing to us now . 
'Elfride , it is a nothing which , though it may make a careless man laugh , cannot but make a genuine one grieve . 
It is a very gnawing pain . 
Tell me straight through all of it . 
O Harry ! how can you expect it when so little of it makes you so harsh with me ? 'Now , Elfride , listen to this . 
You know that what you have told only jars the subtler fancies in one , after all . 
But you seem to have more to tell , and that's where the wrong is . 
Is there more ? 'Not much more , she wearily answered . 
Knight preserved a grave silence for a minute . 
Not much more , he said at last . 
'I should think not , indeed ! His voice assumed a low and steady pitch . 
'Elfride , you must not mind my saying a strange sounding thing , for say it I shall . 
Knight's disturbed mood led him much further than he would have gone in a quieter moment . 
'Well , well , he murmured cynically 'I won't say it is your fault it is my ill luck , I suppose . 
I had no real right to question you everybody would say it was presuming . 
But when we have misunderstood , we feel injured by the subject of our misunderstanding . 
You never said you had had nobody else here making love to you , so why should I blame you ? Elfride , I beg your pardon . 
'No , no ! I would rather have your anger than that cool aggrieved politeness . 
Do drop that , Harry ! Why should you inflict that upon me ? It reduces me to the level of a mere acquaintance . 
'You do that with me . 
Why not confidence for confidence ? 'Yes but I didn't ask you a single question with regard to your past I didn't wish to know about it . 
All I cared for was that , wherever you came from , whatever you had done , whoever you had loved , you were mine at last . 
Harry , if originally you had known I had loved , would you never have cared for me ? 'I won't quite say that . 
Though I own that the idea of your inexperienced state had a great charm for me . 
Yet all these together are so much rubbish because I accidentally saw a man before you ! 'Oh , come , Elfride . 
Accidentally saw a man is very cool . 
You loved him , remember . 
'And loved him a little ! 'And refuse now to answer the simple question how it ended . 
Do you refuse still , Elfride ? 'You have no right to question me so you said so . 
Trust me as I trust you . 
'I shall not love you if you are so cruel . 
It is cruel to me to argue like this . 
I was carried away by my feeling for you . 
Heaven knows that I didn't mean to but I have loved you so that I have used you badly . 
He endeavoured to speak sportively as they went on . 
'Diogenes Laertius says that philosophers used voluntarily to deprive themselves of sight to be uninterrupted in their meditations . 
Men , becoming lovers , ought to do the same thing . 
'Why ? but never mind I don't want to know . 
Don't speak laconically to me , she said with deprecation . 
'Why ? Because they would never then be distracted by discovering their idol was second hand . 
She looked down and sighed and they passed out of the crumbling old place , and slowly crossed to the churchyard entrance . 
Knight was not himself , and he could not pretend to be . 
She had not told all . 
He supported her lightly over the stile , and was practically as attentive as a lover could be . 
But there had passed away a glory , and the dream was not as it had been of yore . 
Perhaps Knight was not shaped by Nature for a marrying man . 
Or whether the rough dispelling of any bright illusion , however imaginative , depreciates the real and unexaggerated brightness which appertains to its basis , one cannot say . 
Chapter XXXIII 'O daughter of Babylon , wasted with misery . 
'Thank you , Elfie then I think I will . 
Her form diminished to blackness in the moonlight , and Knight , after remaining upon the churchyard stile a few minutes longer , turned back again towards the building . 
His usual course was now to light a cigar or pipe , and indulge in a quiet meditation . 
But to night his mind was too tense to bethink itself of such a solace . 
As a change from thoughts not of a very cheerful kind , Knight attempted exertion . 
He stood up , and prepared to ascend to the summit of the ruinous heap of stones , from which a more extended outlook was obtainable than from the ground . 
It was stringy and entangled , and trailed upon the stone . 
The deep shadow from the aisle wall prevented his seeing anything here distinctly , and he began guessing as a necessity . 
'It is a tressy species of moss or lichen , he said to himself . 
But it lay loosely over the stone . 
'It is a tuft of grass , he said . 
But it lacked the roughness and humidity of the finest grass . 
'It is a mason's whitewash brush . 
Such brushes , he remembered , were more bristly and however much used in repairing a structure , would not be required in pulling one down . 
He said , 'It must be a thready silk fringe . 
Knight instantly felt somewhat cold . 
'God only knows what it is , he said . 
He felt further , and in the course of a minute put his hand upon a human head . 
The head was warm , but motionless . 
The thready mass was the hair of the head long and straggling , showing that the head was a woman's . 
Knight in his perplexity stood still for a moment , and collected his thoughts . 
Half an hour after they had gone the undermined angle came down . 
The woman who was half buried , as it seemed , must have been beneath it at the moment of the fall . 
Knight leapt up and began endeavouring to remove the rubbish with his hands . 
The heap overlying the body was for the most part fine and dusty , but in immense quantity . 
It would be a saving of time to run for assistance . 
He crossed to the churchyard wall , and hastened down the hill . 
At the moment that Knight arrived at the crossing he beheld a man on this eminence , coming towards him . 
Knight turned aside and met the stranger . 
'There has been an accident at the church , said Knight , without preface . 
'The tower has fallen on somebody , who has been lying there ever since . 
Will you come and help ? 'That I will , said the man . 
'It is a woman , said Knight , as they hurried back , 'and I think we two are enough to extricate her . 
Do you know of a shovel ? 'The grave digging shovels are about somewhere . 
They used to stay in the tower . 
'And there must be some belonging to the workmen . 
They searched about , and in an angle of the porch found three carefully stowed away . 
Going round to the west end Knight signified the spot of the tragedy . 
'We ought to have brought a lantern , he exclaimed . 
'But we may be able to do without . 
He set to work removing the superincumbent mass . 
The other man , who looked on somewhat helplessly at first , now followed the example of Knight's activity , and removed the larger stones which were mingled with the rubbish . 
But with all their efforts it was quite ten minutes before the body of the unfortunate creature could be extricated . 
They lifted her as carefully as they could , breathlessly carried her to Felix Jethway's tomb , which was only a few steps westward , and laid her thereon . 
'Is she dead indeed ? said the stranger . 
'She appears to be , said Knight . 
'Which is the nearest house ? The vicarage , I suppose . 
'Yes but since we shall have to call a surgeon from Castle Boterel , I think it would be better to carry her in that direction , instead of away from the town . 
'And is it not much further to the first house we come to going that way , than to the vicarage or to The Crags ? 'Not much , the stranger replied . 
'Suppose we take her there , then . 
And I think the best way to do it would be thus , if you don't mind joining hands with me . 
'Not in the least I am glad to assist . 
'I had been sitting in the church for nearly an hour , Knight resumed , when they were out of the churchyard . 
'Afterwards I walked round to the site of the fallen tower , and so found her . 
It is painful to think I unconsciously wasted so much time in the very presence of a perishing , flying soul . 
'The tower fell at dusk , did it not ? quite two hours ago , I think ? 'Yes . 
She must have been there alone . 
What could have been her object in visiting the churchyard then ? 'It is difficult to say . 
The stranger looked inquiringly into the reclining face of the motionless form they bore . 
'Would you turn her round for a moment , so that the light shines on her face ? he said . 
They turned her face to the moon , and the man looked closer into her features . 
'Why , I know her ! he exclaimed . 
'Who is she ? 'Mrs . 
And the cottage we are taking her to is her own . 
She is a widow and I was speaking to her only this afternoon . 
I was at Castle Boterel post office , and she came there to post a letter . 
Poor soul ! Let us hurry on . 
'Hold my wrist a little tighter . 
Was not that tomb we laid her on the tomb of her only son ? 'Yes , it was . 
Yes , I see it now . 
She was there to visit the tomb . 
Since the death of that son she has been a desolate , desponding woman , always bewailing him . 
She was a farmer's wife , very well educated a governess originally , I believe . 
Knight's heart was moved to sympathy . 
His own fortunes seemed in some strange way to be interwoven with those of this Jethway family , through the influence of Elfride over himself and the unfortunate son of that house . 
He made no reply , and they still walked on . 
'She begins to feel heavy , said the stranger , breaking the silence . 
'Yes , she does , said Knight and after another pause added , 'I think I have met you before , though where I cannot recollect . 
May I ask who you are ? 'Oh yes . 
Who are you ? 'I am a visitor at The Crags Mr. Knight . 
'I have heard of you , Mr. Knight . 
'And I of you , Lord Luxellian . 
I am glad to meet you . 
'I may say the same . 
I am familiar with your name in print . 
Is this the house ? 'Yes . 
Knight , reflecting a moment , searched the pocket of the lifeless woman , and found therein a large key which , on being applied to the door , opened it easily . 
The fire was out , but the moonlight entered the quarried window , and made patterns upon the floor . 
They deposited their still burden on an old fashioned couch which stood against the wall , and Knight searched about for a lamp or candle . 
He found a candle on a shelf , lighted it , and placed it on the table . 
Both Knight and Lord Luxellian examined the pale countenance attentively , and both were nearly convinced that there was no hope . 
No marks of violence were visible in the casual examination they made . 
'I think that as I know where Doctor Granson lives , said Lord Luxellian , 'I had better run for him whilst you stay here . 
Lord Luxellian then went off , and his hurrying footsteps died away . 
Knight continued bending over the body , and a few minutes longer of careful scrutiny perfectly satisfied him that the woman was far beyond the reach of the lancet and the drug . 
Her extremities were already beginning to get stiff and cold . 
Knight covered her face , and sat down . 
The essayist remained musing on all the occurrences of the night . 
His eyes were directed upon the table , and he had seen for some time that writing materials were spread upon it . 
He now noticed these more particularly there were an inkstand , pen , blotting book , and note paper . 
Several sheets of paper were thrust aside from the rest , upon which letters had been begun and relinquished , as if their form had not been satisfactory to the writer . 
A stick of black sealing wax and seal were there too , as if the ordinary fastening had not been considered sufficiently secure . 
The abandoned sheets of paper lying as they did open upon the table , made it possible , as he sat , to read the few words written on each . 
It could quickly be put an end to by hastening on his marriage with her . 
Knight , in his own opinion , was one who had missed his mark by excessive aiming . 
To make a start in this new direction by marriage , which , since knowing Elfride , had been so entrancing an idea , was less exquisite to night . 
That the curtailment of his illusion regarding her had something to do with the reaction , and with the return of his old sentiments on wasting time , is more than probable . 
Though Knight's heart had so greatly mastered him , the mastery was not so complete as to be easily maintained in the face of a moderate intellectual revival . 
His reverie was broken by the sound of wheels , and a horse's tramp . 
next came two female nurses and some idlers . 
Chapter XXXIV 'Yea , happy shall he be that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us . 
Knight was entering the ladies' boudoir at The Crags , upon his return from attending the inquest touching the death of Mrs. Jethway . 
Elfride was not in the apartment . 
Mrs. Swancourt made a few inquiries concerning the verdict and collateral circumstances . 
Then she said 'The postman came this morning the minute after you left the house . 
There was only one letter for you , and I have it here . 
She took a letter from the lid of her workbox , and handed it to him . 
Knight took the missive abstractedly , but struck by its appearance murmured a few words and left the room . 
The letter was fastened with a black seal , and the handwriting in which it was addressed had lain under his eyes , long and prominently , only the evening before . 
Knight was greatly agitated , and looked about for a spot where he might be secure from interruption . 
He had instantly understood that the unfinished notes which caught his eye yesternight were intended for nobody but himself . 
All these things infused into him an emotion intense in power and supremely distressing in quality . 
The paper in his hand quivered as he read 'THE VALLEY , ENDELSTOW . 
If you will deign to accept a warning before it is too late , you will notice what your correspondent has to say . 
Can such a woman as this be worthy ? 'One who encouraged an honest youth to love her , then slighted him , so that he died . 
'One who next took a man of no birth as a lover , who was forbidden the house by her father . 
'One who secretly left her home to be married to that man , met him , and went with him to London . 
'One who , for some reason or other , returned again unmarried . 
'One who , in her after correspondence with him , went so far as to address him as her husband . 
'One who wrote the enclosed letter to ask me , who better than anybody else knows the story , to keep the scandal a secret . 
'I hope soon to be beyond the reach of either blame or praise . 
But before removing me God has put it in my power to avenge the death of my son . 
The letter enclosed was the note in pencil that Elfride had written in Mrs. Jethway's cottage 'DEAR MRS . 
JETHWAY , I have been to visit you . 
I wanted much to see you , but I cannot wait any longer . 
I came to beg you not to execute the threats you have repeated to me . 
Do not , I beseech you , Mrs. Jethway , let any one know I ran away from home ! It would ruin me with him , and break my heart . 
I will do anything for you , if you will be kind to me . 
In the name of our common womanhood , do not , I implore you , make a scandal of me . 
Knight turned his head wearily towards the house . 
The ground rose rapidly on nearing the shrubbery in which he stood , raising it almost to a level with the first floor of The Crags . 
Elfride was there she was pausing between the two windows , looking at her figure in the cheval glass . 
She regarded herself long and attentively in front turned , flung back her head , and observed the reflection over her shoulder . 
Nobody can predicate as to her object or fancy she may have done the deed in the very abstraction of deep sadness . 
She may have been moaning from the bottom of her heart , 'How unhappy am I ! But the impression produced on Knight was not a good one . 
He dropped his eyes moodily . 
The dead woman's letter had a virtue in the accident of its juncture far beyond any it intrinsically exhibited . 
Circumstance lent to evil words a ring of pitiless justice echoing from the grave . 
Knight could not endure their possession . 
He tore the letter into fragments . 
He heard a brushing among the bushes behind , and turning his head he saw Elfride following him . 
The fair girl looked in his face with a wistful smile of hope , too forcedly hopeful to displace the firmly established dread beneath it . 
His severe words of the previous night still sat heavy upon her . 
'I saw you from my window , Harry , she said timidly . 
'The dew will make your feet wet , he observed , as one deaf . 
'There is danger in getting wet feet . 
Harry , what is the matter ? 'Oh , nothing . 
Shall I resume the serious conversation I had with you last night ? No , perhaps not perhaps I had better not . 
'It was that hateful conversation last night , she went on . 
'Oh , those words ! Last night was a black night for me . 
She became very pale , and a rigid and desolate charactery took possession of her face . 
That face was so delicate and tender in appearance now , that one could fancy the pressure of a finger upon it would cause a livid spot . 
Knight walked on , and Elfride with him , silent and unopposing . 
He opened a gate , and they entered a path across a stubble field . 
'Perhaps I intrude upon you ? she said as he closed the gate . 
'Shall I go away ? 'No . 
Listen to me , Elfride . 
Knight's voice was low and unequal . 
'I have been honest with you will you be so with me ? If any strange connection has existed between yourself and a predecessor of mine , tell it now . 
It is better that I know it now , even though the knowledge should part us , than that I should discover it in time to come . 
And suspicions have been awakened in me . 
I think I will not say how , because I despise the means . 
A discovery of any mystery of your past would embitter our lives . 
Knight waited with a slow manner of calmness . 
His eyes were sad and imperative . 
They went farther along the path . 
'Will you forgive me if I tell you all ? she exclaimed entreatingly . 
'I can't promise so much depends upon what you have to tell . 
Elfride could not endure the silence which followed . 
'Are you not going to love me ? she burst out . 
In their agitation they had left the path , and were wandering among the wet and obstructive stubble , without knowing or heeding it . 
'What have I done ? she faltered . 
'Not that I believe in malicious letter writers and whisperers not I. I don't know whether I do or don't upon my soul , I can't tell . 
I know this a religion was building itself upon you in my heart . 
I looked into your eyes , and thought I saw there truth and innocence as pure and perfect as ever embodied by God in the flesh of woman . 
Perfect truth is too much to expect , but ordinary truth I WILL HAVE or nothing at all . 
Just say , then is the matter you keep back of the gravest importance , or is it not ? 'I don't understand all your meaning . 
If I have hidden anything from you , it has been because I loved you so , and I feared feared to lose you . 
'Since you are not given to confidence , I want to ask you some plain questions . 
Have I your permission ? 'Yes , she said , and there came over her face a weary resignation . 
It may not refer to you entirely , or even at all . 
Knight trifled in the very bitterness of his feeling . 
'In the time of the French Revolution , Pariseau , a ballet master , was beheaded by mistake for Parisot , a captain of the King's Guard . 
I wish there was another E. Swancourt in the neighbourhood . 
He handed her the letter she had written and left on the table at Mrs. Jethway's . 
She looked over it vacantly . 
'It is not so much as it seems ! she pleaded . 
'It seems wickedly deceptive to look at now , but it had a much more natural origin than you think . 
My sole wish was not to endanger our love . 
O Harry ! that was all my idea . 
It was not much harm . 
'Yes , yes but independently of the poor miserable creature's remarks , it seems to imply something wrong . 
'What remarks ? 'Those she wrote me now torn to pieces . 
Elfride , DID you run away with a man you loved ? that was the damnable statement . 
Has such an accusation life in it really , truly , Elfride ? 'Yes , she whispered . 
'To be married to him ? came huskily from his lips . 
Oh , forgive me ! I had never seen you , Harry . 
'To London ? 'Yes but I 'Answer my questions say nothing else , Elfride Did you ever deliberately try to marry him in secret ? 'No not deliberately . 
'But did you do it ? A feeble red passed over her face . 
Her lips shook but it was with some little dignity that she continued 'I would gladly have told you for I knew and know I had done wrong . 
But I dared not I loved you too well . 
Oh , so well ! You have been everything in the world to me and you are now . 
The reluctance to tell , which arose from Elfride's simplicity in thinking herself so much more culpable than she really was , had been doing fatal work in Knight's mind . 
'Elfride , we must bid good bye to compliment , said Knight 'we must do without politeness now . 
Look in my face , and as you believe in God above , tell me truly one thing more . 
Were you away alone with him ? 'Yes . 
'Did you return home the same day on which you left it ? 'No . 
The word fell like a bolt , and the very land and sky seemed to suffer . 
'You must forget me , he said . 
'We shall not marry , Elfride . 
How much anguish passed into her soul at those words from him was told by the look of supreme torture she wore . 
I like you and let me give you a word of advice . 
Marry your man as soon as you can . 
However weary of each other you may feel , you belong to each other , and I am not going to step between you . 
Honesty would be damnation then . 
She checked them , and continued to look in his face for the ray of hope that was not to be found there . 
'I am going indoors , said Knight . 
'You will not follow me , Elfride I wish you not to . 
'Oh no indeed , I will not . 
'And then I am going to Castle Boterel . 
He spoke the farewell as if it were but for the day lightly , as he had spoken such temporary farewells many times before and she seemed to understand it as such . 
He descended the valley , and could not forbear turning his head . 
He saw the stubble field , and a slight girlish figure in the midst of it up against the sky . 
Elfride , docile as ever , had hardly moved a step , for he had said , Remain . 
He looked and saw her again he saw her for weeks and months . 
He withdrew his eyes from the scene , swept his hand across them , as if to brush away the sight , breathed a low groan , and went on . 
Chapter XXXV 'And wilt thou leave me thus ? say nay say nay ! The scene shifts to Knight's chambers in Bede's Inn . 
It was late in the evening of the day following his departure from Endelstow . 
A drizzling rain descended upon London , forming a humid and dreary halo over every well lighted street . 
Knight was standing by the fire , looking into its expiring embers , previously to emerging from his door for a dreary journey home to Richmond . 
His hat was on , and the gas turned off . 
It was so faint at first that the outer noises were almost sufficient to drown it . 
Finding it repeated Knight crossed the lobby , crowded with books and rubbish , and opened the door . 
A woman , closely muffled up , but visibly of fragile build , was standing on the landing under the gaslight . 
She sprang forward , flung her arms round Knight's neck , and uttered a low cry 'O Harry , Harry , you are killing me ! I could not help coming . 
Don't send me away don't ! Forgive your Elfride for coming I love you so ! Knight's agitation and astonishment mastered him for a few moments . 
'Who is with you ? Have you come alone ? he hurriedly inquired . 
Launce's , and came by the train . 
'But you cannot stay here now just at present , I mean . 
'I suppose I must not I wish I might . 
I am afraid that if you lose sight of me something dark will happen , and we shall not meet again . 
I don't mind what it is except that ! 'No , I cannot send you away I cannot . 
At that moment a loud knocking at the house door was heard by both , accompanied by a hurried ringing of the bell that echoed from attic to basement . 
The door was quickly opened , and after a few hasty words of converse in the hall , heavy footsteps ascended the stairs . 
The face of Mr. Swancourt , flushed , grieved , and stern , appeared round the landing of the staircase . 
He came higher up , and stood beside them . 
Glancing over and past Knight with silent indignation , he turned to the trembling girl . 
I can only remark , that the sooner I can retire from your presence the better I shall be pleased . 
Why you could not conduct your courtship of my daughter like an honest man , I do not know . 
Why she a foolish inexperienced girl should have been tempted to this piece of folly , I do not know . 
Even if she had not known better than to leave her home , you might have , I should think . 
'It is not his fault he did not tempt me , papa ! I came . 
How should he defend himself when his defence was the accusation of Elfride ? On that account he felt a miserable satisfaction in letting her father go on thinking and speaking wrongfully . 
'Now , are you coming ? said Mr. Swancourt to her again . 
He took her unresisting hand , drew it within his arm , and led her down the stairs . 
Knight's eyes followed her , the last moment begetting in him a frantic hope that she would turn her head . 
She passed on , and never looked back . 
He heard the door open close again . 
The wheels of a cab grazed the kerbstone , a murmured direction followed . 
The door was slammed together , the wheels moved , and they rolled away . 
From that hour of her reappearance a dreadful conflict raged within the breast of Henry Knight . 
His instinct , emotion , affectiveness or whatever it may be called urged him to stand forward , seize upon Elfride , and be her cherisher and protector through life . 
Hours and days went by , and Knight remained inactive . 
Lengthening time , which made fainter the heart awakening power of her presence , strengthened the mental ability to reason her down . 
Elfride loved him , he knew , and he could not leave off loving her but marry her he would not . 
With him , truth seemed too clean and pure an abstraction to be so hopelessly churned in with error as practical persons find it . 
Having now seen himself mistaken in supposing Elfride to be peerless , nothing on earth could make him believe she was not so very bad after all . 
He lingered in town a fortnight , doing little else than vibrate between passion and opinions . 
One idea remained intact that it was better Elfride and himself should not meet . 
He had deserted those never failing friends , so they seemed to say , for an unstable delight in a ductile woman , which had ended all in bitterness . 
Poor little Elfride , instead of holding , as formerly , a place in his religion , began to assume the hue of a temptation . 
Perhaps it was human and correctly natural that Knight never once thought whether he did not owe her a little sacrifice for her unchary devotion in saving his life . 
He closed his chambers , suspended his connection with editors , and left London for the Continent . 
Here we will leave him to wander without purpose , beyond the nominal one of encouraging obliviousness of Elfride . 
Chapter XXXVI 'The pennie's the jewel that beautifies a' . 
'I can't think what's coming to these St . 
Launce's people at all at all . 
These words formed part of a conversation between John Smith and his wife on a Saturday evening in the spring which followed Knight's departure from England . 
Stephen had long since returned to India and the persevering couple themselves had migrated from Lord Luxellian's park at Endelstow to a comfortable roadside dwelling about a mile out of St . 
Launce's , where John had opened a small stone and slate yard in his own name . 
Meet 'em in the street half an hour after , and they'd treat me with staring ignorance of my face . 
'Look through ye as through a glass winder ? 'Yes , the brazen ones would . 
The quiet and cool ones would glance over the top of my head , past my side , over my shoulder , but never meet my eye . 
The gentle modest would turn their faces south if I were coming east , flit down a passage if I were about to halve the pavement with them . 
There was the spruce young bookseller would play the same tricks the butcher's daughters the upholsterer's young men . 
Hand in glove when doing business out of sight with you but caring nothing for a' old woman when playing the genteel away from all signs of their trade . 
'Well , to day 'tis all different . 
I hadn't got to the corner before that thriving young lawyer , Sweet , who's quite the dandy , ran after me out of breath . 
If you'll believe me , this was in the very front of the Town Hall . 
What's the meaning of such sudden love for a' old woman ? 'Can't say unless 'tis repentance . 
'Repentance ! was there ever such a fool as you . 
Why , old Alderman Tope walked out to the middle of the street where I was , to shake hands with me so 'a did . 
Having on my working clothes , I thought 'twas odd . 
Ay , and there was young Werrington . 
'Who's he ? 'Why , the man in Hill Street , who plays and sells flutes , trumpets , and fiddles , and grand pehanners . 
He was talking to Egloskerry , that very small bachelor man with money in the funds . 
Beg you to change how I will , 'tis no use . 
'Well , however , I was in my working clothes . 
'Twas odd for Werrington is one of the very ringleaders of the fast class . 
At that moment a tap came to the door . 
The door was immediately opened by Mrs. Smith in person . 
'You'll excuse us , I'm sure , Mrs. Smith , but this beautiful spring weather was too much for us . 
Yes , and we could stay in no longer and I took Mrs. Trewen upon my arm directly we'd had a cup of tea , and out we came . 
And seeing your beautiful crocuses in such a bloom , we've taken the liberty to enter . 
We'll step round the garden , if you don't mind . 
'Not at all , said Mrs. Smith and they walked round the garden . 
She lifted her hands in amazement directly their backs were turned . 
'Goodness send us grace ! Who be they ? said her husband . 
'Actually Mr. Trewen , the bank manager , and his wife . 
John Smith , staggered in mind , went out of doors and looked over the garden gate , to collect his ideas . 
He had not been there two minutes when wheels were heard , and a carriage and pair rolled along the road . 
A distinguished looking lady , with the demeanour of a duchess , reclined within . 
When opposite Smith's gate she turned her head , and instantly commanded the coachman to stop . 
'Ah , Mr. Smith , I am glad to see you looking so well . 
I could not help stopping a moment to congratulate you and Mrs. Smith upon the happiness you must enjoy . 
Joseph , you may drive on . 
And the carriage rolled away towards St . 
Out rushed Mrs. Smith from behind a laurel bush , where she had stood pondering . 
'Just going to touch my hat to her , said John 'just for all the world as I would have to poor Lady Luxellian years ago . 
'Lord ! who is she ? 'The public house woman what's her name ? Mrs. Mrs. at the Falcon . 
The clumsiness of the Smith family ! You MIGHT say the landlady of the Falcon Hotel , since we are in for politeness . 
The people are ridiculous enough , but give them their due . 
The possibility is that Mrs. Smith was getting mollified , in spite of herself , by these remarkably friendly phenomena among the people of St . 
And in justice to them it was quite desirable that she should do so . 
The interest which the unpractised ones of this town expressed so grotesquely was genuine of its kind , and equal in intrinsic worth to the more polished smiles of larger communities . 
By this time Mr. and Mrs. Trewen were returning from the garden . 
'I'll ask 'em flat , whispered John to his wife . 
'I'll say , We be in a fog you'll excuse my asking a question , Mr. and Mrs. Trewen . 
'Ah , 'tis Stephen I knew it ! said Mrs. Smith triumphantly to herself . 
'We don't know particulars , said John . 
'Why , 'tis all over town . 
Our worthy Mayor alluded to it in a speech at the dinner last night of the Every Man his own Maker Club . 
'And what about Stephen ? urged Mrs. Smith . 
''Twas sure to come to the boy , said Mr. Smith unassumingly . 
Launce's Chronicle and our worthy Mayor in the chair introduced the subject into his speech last night in a masterly manner . 
''Twas very good of the worthy Mayor in the chair I'm sure , said Stephen's mother . 
'I hope the boy will have the sense to keep what he's got but as for men , they are a simple sex . 
Some woman will hook him . 
There will be always a tea cup and saucer for you , as you know there has been for months , though you may have forgotten it . 
I'm a plain speaking woman , and what I say I mean . 
'And , John , mind one thing , she said in conclusion . 
'In writing to Stephen , never by any means mention the name of Elfride Swancourt again . 
We've left the place , and know no more about her except by hearsay . 
He seems to be getting free of her , and glad am I for it . 
It was a cloudy hour for him when he first set eyes upon the girl . 
That family's been no good to him , first or last so let them keep their blood to themselves if they want to . 
He thinks of her , I know , but not so hopelessly . 
So don't try to know anything about her , and we can't answer his questions . 
She may die out of his mind then . 
'That shall be it , said John . 
Chapter XXXVII 'After many days . 
Knight roamed south , under colour of studying Continental antiquities . 
He paced the lofty aisles of Amiens , loitered by Ardennes Abbey , climbed into the strange towers of Laon , analyzed Noyon and Rheims . 
Then he went to Chartres , and examined its scaly spires and quaint carving then he idled about Coutances . 
He rowed beneath the base of Mont St . 
Michel , and caught the varied skyline of the crumbling edifices encrusting it . 
Ouen's , Rouen , knew him for days so did Vezelay , Sens , and many a hallowed monument besides . 
Abandoning the inspection of early French art with the same purposeless haste as he had shown in undertaking it , he went further , and lingered about Ferrara , Padua , and Pisa . 
Satiated with mediaevalism , he tried the Roman Forum . 
Next he observed moonlight and starlight effects by the bay of Naples . 
He turned to Austria , became enervated and depressed on Hungarian and Bohemian plains , and was refreshed again by breezes on the declivities of the Carpathians . 
Then he found himself in Greece . 
He visited the plain of Marathon , and strove to imagine the Persian defeat to Mars Hill , to picture St . 
Paul addressing the ancient Athenians to Thermopylae and Salamis , to run through the facts and traditions of the Second Invasion the result of his endeavours being more or less chaotic . 
Knight grew as weary of these places as of all others . 
Then he felt the shock of an earthquake in the Ionian Islands , and went to Venice . 
Afterwards he remained for weeks in the museums , galleries , and libraries of Vienna , Berlin , and Paris and thence came home . 
Time thus rolls us on to a February afternoon , divided by fifteen months from the parting of Elfride and her lover in the brown stubble field towards the sea . 
Two men obviously not Londoners , and with a touch of foreignness in their look , met by accident on one of the gravel walks leading across Hyde Park . 
Knight indeed it is ! exclaimed the younger man . 
'Ah , Stephen Smith ! said Knight . 
Simultaneous operations might now have been observed progressing in both , the result being that an expression less frank and impulsive than the first took possession of their features . 
It was manifest that the next words uttered were a superficial covering to constraint on both sides . 
'Have you been in England long ? said Knight . 
'Only two days , said Smith . 
India ever since ? 'Nearly ever since . 
'They were making a fuss about you at St . 
I fancy I saw something of the sort in the papers . 
'Yes I believe something was said about me . 
'I must congratulate you on your achievements . 
'Thanks , but they are nothing very extraordinary . 
A natural professional progress where there was no opposition . 
Each looked up and down the Park . 
Stephen certainly was full of the feelings begotten by the belief that Knight had taken away the woman he loved so well . 
'Are you married ? 'I am not . 
Knight spoke in an indescribable tone of bitterness that was almost moroseness . 
'And I never shall be , he added decisively . 
'Are you ? 'No , said Stephen , sadly and quietly , like a man in a sick room . 
'Then your engagement to Miss Swancourt came to nothing , he said . 
'You remember I met you with her once ? Stephen's voice gave way a little here , in defiance of his firmest will to the contrary . 
Indian affairs had not yet lowered those emotions down to the point of control . 
'It was broken off , came quickly from Knight . 
'Engagements to marry often end like that for better or for worse . 
And what have you been doing lately ? 'Doing ? Nothing . 
'Where have you been ? 'I can hardly tell you . 
In the main , going about Europe and it may perhaps interest you to know that I have been attempting the serious study of Continental art of the Middle Ages . 
My notes on each example I visited are at your service . 
They are of no use to me . 
'I shall be glad with them . 
Oh , travelling far and near ! 'Not far , said Knight , with moody carelessness . 
I have travelled just in the same way round and round like a giddy ram . 
The reckless , bitter , and rambling style in which Knight talked , as if rather to vent his images than to convey any ideas to Stephen , struck the young man painfully . 
His former friend's days had become cankered in some way Knight was a changed man . 
He himself had changed much , but not as Knight had changed . 
'Yesterday I came home , continued Knight , 'without having , to the best of my belief , imbibed half a dozen ideas worth retaining . 
'You out Hamlet Hamlet in morbidness of mood , said Stephen , with regretful frankness . 
'Do you know , Stephen continued , 'I could almost have sworn that you would be married before this time , from what I saw ? Knight's face grew harder . 
'Could you ? he said . 
Stephen was powerless to forsake the depressing , luring subject . 
'Yes and I simply wonder at it . 
'Whom did you expect me to marry ? 'Her I saw you with . 
'Thank you for that wonder . 
'Did she jilt you ? 'Smith , now one word to you , Knight returned steadily . 
'Don't you ever question me on that subject . 
I have a reason for making this request , mind . 
And if you do question me , you will not get an answer . 
But let it go , let it go , by all means . 
'What would you explain ? 'I lost the woman I was going to marry you have not married as you intended . 
We might have compared notes . 
'I have never asked you a word about your case . 
'And the inference is obvious . 
'The truth is , Stephen , I have doggedly resolved never to allude to the matter for which I have a very good reason . 
As good a reason as you had for not marrying her . 
I had a good one a miserably good one ! Smith's anxiety urged him to venture one more question . 
'Did she not love you enough ? He drew his breath in a slow and attenuated stream , as he waited in timorous hope for the answer . 
'Stephen , you rather strain ordinary courtesy in pressing questions of that kind after what I have said . 
I cannot understand you at all . 
I must go on now . 
'What have you heard ? 'Nothing . 
I too must go on . 
'If you will go , said Knight , reluctantly now , 'you must , I suppose . 
I am sure I cannot understand why you behave so . 
'Nor I why you do . 
I have always been grateful to you , and as far as I am concerned we need never have become so estranged as we have . 
'And have I ever been anything but well disposed towards you , Stephen ? Surely you know that I have not ! The system of reserve began with you you know that . 
'No , no ! You altogether mistake our position . 
You were always from the first reserved to me , though I was confidential to you . 
That was , I suppose , the natural issue of our differing positions in life . 
And when I , the pupil , became reserved like you , the master , you did not like it . 
However , I was going to ask you to come round and see me . 
'Where are you staying ? 'At the Grosvenor Hotel , Pimlico . 
'So am I. 'That's convenient , not to say odd . 
Well , I am detained in London for a day or two then I am going down to see my father and mother , who live at St . 
Will you see me this evening ? 'I may but I will not promise . 
I was wishing to be alone for an hour or two but I shall know where to find you , at any rate . 
Chapter XXXVIII 'Jealousy is cruel as the grave . 
Stephen pondered not a little on this meeting with his old friend and once beloved exemplar . 
He was grieved , for amid all the distractions of his latter years a still small voice of fidelity to Knight had lingered on in him . 
Knight , on his part , was vexed , after they had parted , that he had not taken Stephen in hand a little after the old manner . 
Stephen the ingenuous boy , though now obliterated externally by Stephen the contriving man , returned to Knight's memory vividly that afternoon . 
The conflict that then had raged in him concerning Elfride Swancourt revived , strengthened by its sleep . 
Knight returned to his hotel much earlier in the evening than he would have done in the ordinary course of things . 
'I have come to you , after all , said Knight . 
'My manner was odd this morning , and it seemed desirable to call but that you had too much sense to notice , Stephen , I know . 
Put it down to my wanderings in France and Italy . 
'Don't say another word , but sit down . 
I am only too glad to see you again . 
Stephen would hardly have cared to tell Knight just then that the minute before Knight was announced he had been reading over some old letters of Elfride's . 
He at first intended only to look over these letters on the outside then he read one then another until the whole was thus re used as a stimulus to sad memories . 
The possibility of any given gratification begets a cumulative sense of its necessity . 
They sat by the fire , chatting on external and random subjects , neither caring to be the first to approach the matter each most longed to discuss . 
On the table with the periodicals lay two or three pocket books , one of them being open . 
Knight seeing from the exposed page that the contents were sketches only , began turning the leaves over carelessly with his finger . 
When , some time later , Stephen was out of the room , Knight proceeded to pass the interval by looking at the sketches more carefully . 
The first crude ideas , pertaining to dwellings of all kinds , were roughly outlined on the different pages . 
Among these occasionally appeared rough delineations of mediaeval subjects for carving or illumination heads of Virgins , Saints , and Prophets . 
Stephen was not professedly a free hand draughtsman , but he drew the human figure with correctness and skill . 
In its numerous repetitions on the sides and edges of the leaves , Knight began to notice a peculiarity . 
All the feminine saints had one type of feature . 
There were large nimbi and small nimbi about their drooping heads , but the face was always the same . 
Knight thought anew of Smith's hasty words earlier in the day , and looked at the sketches again and again . 
They were intended as designs for the stained glass of an English church . 
'But whom do you idealize by that type of woman you always adopt for the Virgin ? 'Nobody . 
And then a thought raced along Stephen's mind and he looked up at his friend . 
The truth is , Stephen's introduction of Elfride's lineaments had been so unconscious that he had not at first understood his companion's drift . 
The hand , like the tongue , easily acquires the trick of repetition by rote , without calling in the mind to assist at all and this had been the case here . 
Young men who cannot write verses about their Loves generally take to portraying them , and in the early days of his attachment Smith had never been weary of outlining Elfride . 
The lay figure of Stephen's sketches now initiated an adjustment of many things . 
The opportunity of comparing notes had come unsought . 
'Elfride Swancourt , to whom I was engaged , he said quietly . 
'Stephen ! 'I know what you mean by speaking like that . 
'I did it for the best blame me if you will I did it for the best . 
And now say how could I be with you afterwards as I had been before ? 'I don't know at all I can't say . 
Knight remained fixed in thought , and once he murmured 'I had a suspicion this afternoon that there might be some such meaning in your words about my taking her away . 
How came you to know her ? he presently asked , in almost a peremptory tone . 
'I went down about the church years ago now . 
'When you were with Hewby , of course , of course . 
Well , I can't understand it . 
'I don't know what to say , your hoodwinking me like this for so long ! 'I don't see that I have hoodwinked you at all . 
'Yes , yes , but' Knight arose from his seat , and began pacing up and down the room . 
His face was markedly pale , and his voice perturbed , as he said 'You did not act as I should have acted towards you under those circumstances . 
'I could do no otherwise than I did , with due regard to her , he said stiffly . 
'Indeed ! said Knight , in the bitterest tone of reproach . 
'I am much obliged to you for that hope . 
But you talk very mysteriously . 
I think I had about the best reason anybody could have had for not doing that . 
'Oh , what reason was it ? 'That I could not . 
'You ought to have made an opportunity you ought to do so now , in bare justice to her , Stephen ! cried Knight , carried beyond himself . 
However , we shall not agree too well upon that subject , so we had better part . 
'But I am quite certain you misapprehend something most grievously , said Stephen , shaken to the bottom of his heart . 
'What have I done tell me ? I have lost Elfride , but is that such a sin ? 'Was it her doing , or yours ? 'Was what ? 'That you parted . 
'I will tell you honestly . 
It was hers entirely , entirely . 
'What was her reason ? 'I can hardly say . 
But I'll tell the story without reserve . 
'Such a matter must not be allowed to breed discord between us , Knight returned , relapsing into a manner which concealed all his true feeling , as if confidence now was intolerable . 
'I do see that your reticence towards me in the vault may have been dictated by prudential considerations . 
These words from Knight , uttered with such an air of renunciation and apparent indifference , prompted Smith to speak on perhaps with a little complacency of his old secret engagement to Elfride . 
He told the details of its origin , and the peremptory words and actions of her father to extinguish their love . 
Knight persevered in the tone and manner of a disinterested outsider . 
It had become more than ever imperative to screen his emotions from Stephen's eye the young man would otherwise be less frank , and their meeting would be again embittered . 
What was the use of untoward candour ? Stephen had now arrived at the point in his ingenuous narrative where he left the vicarage because of her father's manner . 
Their love seemed so innocent and childlike thus far . 
'It is a nice point in casuistry , he observed , 'to decide whether you were culpable or not in not telling Swancourt that your friends were parishioners of his . 
It was only human nature to hold your tongue under the circumstances . 
Well , what was the result of your dismissal by him ? 'That we agreed to be secretly faithful . 
And to insure this we thought we would marry . 
Knight's suspense and agitation rose higher when Stephen entered upon this phase of the subject . 
'Do you mind telling on ? he said , steadying his manner of speech . 
'Oh , not at all . 
Then Stephen gave in full the particulars of the meeting with Elfride at the railway station the necessity they were under of going to London , unless the ceremony were to be postponed . 
Launce's at last were detailed . 
And he told how a village woman named Jethway was the only person who recognized them , either going or coming and how dreadfully this terrified Elfride . 
These things Stephen related with a will . 
He believed that in doing so he established word by word the reasonableness of his claim to Elfride . 
'Curse her ! curse that woman ! that miserable letter that parted us ! O God ! Knight began pacing the room again , and uttered this at further end . 
'What did you say ? said Stephen , turning round . 
'Say ? Did I say anything ? Oh , I was merely thinking about your story , and the oddness of my having a fancy for the same woman afterwards . 
'Exactly , said Stephen , inwardly exultant , for he was really deceived by Knight's off hand manner . 
Yet he was deceived less by the completeness of Knight's disguise than by the persuasive power which lay in the fact that Knight had never before deceived him in anything . 
So this supposition that his companion had ceased to love Elfride was an enormous lightening of the weight which had turned the scale against him . 
'Admitting that Elfride COULD love another man after you , said the elder , under the same varnish of careless criticism , 'she was none the worse for that experience . 
'The worse ? Of course she was none the worse . 
'Did you ever think it a wild and thoughtless thing for her to do ? 'Indeed , I never did , said Stephen . 
She saw no harm in it until she decided to return , nor did I nor was there , except to the extent of indiscretion . 
'Directly she thought it was wrong she would go no further ? 'That was it . 
I had just begun to think it wrong too . 
'Such a childish escapade might have been misrepresented by any evil disposed person , might it not ? 'It might but I never heard that it was . 
Nobody who really knew all the circumstances would have done otherwise than smile . 
If all the world had known it , Elfride would still have remained the only one who thought her action a sin . 
Poor child , she always persisted in thinking so , and was frightened more than enough . 
'Stephen , do you love her now ? 'Well , I like her I always shall , you know , he said evasively , and with all the strategy love suggested . 
'But I have not seen her for so long that I can hardly be expected to love her . 
I used to love her in my way , you know . 
Ah , and I used to love her in my way . 
In fact , I loved her a good deal at one time but travel has a tendency to obliterate early fancies . 
'It has it has , truly . 
resumed Knight , 'now that matters are smooth between us , I think I must leave you . 
You won't mind my hurrying off to my quarters ? 'You'll stay to some sort of supper surely ? didn't you come to dinner ! 'You must really excuse me this once . 
'Then you'll drop in to breakfast to morrow . 
'I shall be rather pressed for time . 
'An early breakfast , which shall interfere with nothing ? 'I'll come , said Knight , with as much readiness as it was possible to graft upon a huge stock of reluctance . 
'Yes , early eight o'clock say , as we are under the same roof . 
To wear a mask , to dissemble his feelings as he had in their late miserable conversation , was such torture that he could support it no longer . 
It was the first time in Knight's life that he had ever been so entirely the player of a part . 
And the man he had thus deceived was Stephen , who had docilely looked up to him from youth as a superior of unblemished integrity . 
He went to bed , and allowed the fever of his excitement to rage uncontrolled . 
Stephen was but a boy to him . 
Where the great grief lay was in perceiving that the very innocence of Elfride in reading her little fault as one so grave was what had fatally misled him . 
Had Elfride , with any degree of coolness , asserted that she had done no harm , the poisonous breath of the dead Mrs. Jethway would have been inoperative . 
Why did he not make his little docile girl tell more ? If on that subject he had only exercised the imperativeness customary with him on others , all might have been revealed . 
Knight blessed Elfride for her sweetness , and forgot her fault . 
He pictured with a vivid fancy those fair summer scenes with her . 
He again saw her as at their first meeting , timid at speaking , yet in her eagerness to be explanatory borne forward almost against her will . 
Rising and dressing himself , he sat down and waited for day . 
That night Stephen was restless too . 
Not because of the unwontedness of a return to English scenery not because he was about to meet his parents , and settle down for awhile to English cottage life . 
He was indulging in dreams , and for the nonce the warehouses of Bombay and the plains and forts of Poonah were but a shadow's shadow . 
His dream was based on this one atom of fact Elfride and Knight had become separated , and their engagement was as if it had never been . 
To go and see Elfride was the suggestion of impulses it was impossible to withstand . 
At any rate , to run down from St . 
He was now a richer man than heretofore , standing on his own bottom and the definite position in which he had rooted himself nullified old local distinctions . 
He had become illustrious , even sanguine clarus , judging from the tone of the worthy Mayor of St . 
Chapter XXXIX 'Each to the loved one's side . 
The friends and rivals breakfasted together the next morning . 
Not a word was said on either side upon the matter discussed the previous evening so glibly and so hollowly . 
Stephen was absorbed the greater part of the time in wishing he were not forced to stay in town yet another day . 
'I don't intend to leave for St . 
Launce's till to morrow , as you know , he said to Knight at the end of the meal . 
'I'll look for you this evening , said Stephen . 
You may as well come and dine with me that is , if we can meet . 
I may not sleep in London to night in fact , I am absolutely unsettled as to my movements yet . 
However , the first thing I am going to do is to get my baggage shifted from this place to Bede's Inn . 
Good bye for the present . 
I'll write , you know , if I can't meet you . 
It now wanted a quarter to nine o'clock . 
On a sudden he admitted to his mind the possibility that the engagement he was waiting in town to keep might be postponed without much harm . 
It was no sooner perceived than attempted . 
Shortly afterwards he took his seat in the railway carriage . 
Smith sank back into the carriage , stilled by perplexity . 
The man was like Knight astonishingly like him . 
Was it possible it could be he ? To have got there he must have driven like the wind to Bede's Inn , and hardly have alighted before starting again . 
No , it could not be he that was not his way of doing things . 
During the early part of the journey Stephen Smith's thoughts busied themselves till his brain seemed swollen . 
One subject was concerning his own approaching actions . 
Once before the same engagement had been made , which he had then quashed by ante dating his arrival . 
At Chippenham there was a little waiting , and some loosening and attaching of carriages . 
At the same moment another man's head emerged from the adjoining window . 
Each looked in the other's face . 
Knight and Stephen confronted one another . 
'You here ! said the younger man . 
It seems that you are too , said Knight , strangely . 
The selfishness of love and the cruelty of jealousy were fairly exemplified at this moment . 
Each of the two men looked at his friend as he had never looked at him before . 
Each was TROUBLED at the other's presence . 
'I thought you said you were not coming till to morrow , remarked Knight . 
It was an afterthought to come to day . 
This journey was your engagement , then ? 'No , it was not . 
This is an afterthought of mine too . 
I left a note to explain it , and account for my not being able to meet you this evening as we arranged . 
'So did I for you . 
'You don't look well you did not this morning . 
You are paler to day than you were . 
'I , too , have been suffering from headache . 
We have to wait here a few minutes , I think . 
They walked up and down the platform , each one more and more embarrassingly concerned with the awkwardness of his friend's presence . 
They reached the end of the footway , and paused in sheer absent mindedness . 
This operation having been concluded , the two friends returned to the side of their carriage . 
'Will you come in here ? said Knight , not very warmly . 
'I have my rug and portmanteau and umbrella with me it is rather bothering to move now , said Stephen reluctantly . 
'Why not you come here ? 'I have my traps too . 
It is hardly worth while to shift them , for I shall see you again , you know . 
And each got into his own place . 
Just at starting , a man on the platform held up his hands and stopped the train . 
Stephen looked out to see what was the matter . 
One of the officials was exclaiming to another , 'That carriage should have been attached again . 
'What is it ? 'That singular carriage we saw has been unfastened from our train by mistake , it seems , said Stephen . 
He was watching the process of attaching it . 
The van or carriage , which he now recognized as having seen at Paddington before they started , was rich and solemn rather than gloomy in aspect . 
It seemed to be quite new , and of modern design , and its impressive personality attracted the notice of others beside himself . 
Stephen sat all the afternoon pondering upon the reason of Knight's unexpected reappearance . 
Was he going as far as Castle Boterel ? If so , he could only have one object in view a visit to Elfride . 
Stephen walked up and stood beside him without speaking . 
Two men at this moment crept out from among the wheels of the waiting train . 
'The carriage is light enough , said one in a grim tone . 
'Light as vanity full of nothing . 
'Nothing in size , but a good deal in signification , said the other , a man of brighter mind and manners . 
Smith then perceived that to their train was attached that same carriage of grand and dark aspect which had haunted them all the way from London . 
'You are going on , I suppose ? said Knight , turning to Stephen , after idly looking at the same object . 
'We may as well travel together for the remaining distance , may we not ? 'Certainly we will and they both entered the same door . 
It chanced to be the eve of St . 
As the train changed its direction on a curve , the same rays stretched in through the window , and coaxed open Knight's half closed eyes . 
'You will get out at St . 
Launce's , I suppose ? he murmured . 
'No , said Stephen , 'I am not expected till to morrow . 
'And you are you going to Endelstow ? said the younger man pointedly . 
'Since you ask , I can do no less than say I am , Stephen , continued Knight slowly , and with more resolution of manner than he had shown all the day . 
'I am going to Endelstow to see if Elfride Swancourt is still free and if so , to ask her to be my wife . 
'So am I , said Stephen Smith . 
'I think you'll lose your labour , Knight returned with decision . 
There was a strong accent of bitterness in Stephen's voice . 
'You might have said HOPE instead of THINK , he added . 
'I might have done no such thing . 
I gave you my opinion . 
Elfride Swancourt may have loved you once , no doubt , but it was when she was so young that she hardly knew her own mind . 
'Thank you , said Stephen laconically . 
'She knew her mind as well as I did . 
We are the same age . 
Stephen spoke with a swelling heart , and looked out of the window to hide the emotion that would make itself visible upon his face . 
'It is absurd , said Knight in a kinder tone , 'for you to look at the matter in that light . 
What I tell you is for your good . 
You naturally do not like to realize the truth that her liking for you was only a girl's first fancy , which has no root ever . 
'It is not true ! said Stephen passionately . 
'It was you put me out . 
'First love is deepest and that was mine . 
'Who told you that ? said Knight superciliously . 
'I had her first love . 
And it was through me that you and she parted . 
I can guess that well enough . 
I don't choose to explain , because the particulars are painful . 
But if you won't listen to me , go on , for Heaven's sake . 
I don't care what you do , my boy . 
'You have no right to domineer over me as you do . 
It is cruel it is unjust of you to injure me so ! Knight showed himself keenly hurt at this . 
'Stephen , those words are untrue and unworthy of any man , and they are unworthy of you . 
You know you wrong me . 
If you have ever profited by any instruction of mine , I am only too glad to know it . 
You know it was given ungrudgingly , and that I have never once looked upon it as making you in any way a debtor to me . 
Stephen's naturally gentle nature was touched , and it was in a troubled voice that he said , 'Yes , yes . 
I am unjust in that I own it . 
Launce's Station , I think . 
Are you going to get out ? Knight's manner of returning to the matter in hand drew Stephen again into himself . 
'No I told you I was going to Endelstow , he resolutely replied . 
Knight's features became impassive , and he said no more . 
The train continued rattling on , and Stephen leant back in his corner and closed his eyes . 
Stephen started up in bewilderment after a long stillness , and it was some time before he recollected himself . 
'Well , how real , how real ! he exclaimed , brushing his hand across his eyes . 
'What is ? said Knight . 
I fell asleep for a few minutes , and have had a dream the most vivid I ever remember . 
He wearily looked out into the gloom . 
They were now drawing near to Camelton . 
The lighting of the lamps was perceptible through the veil of evening each flame starting into existence at intervals , and blinking weakly against the gusts of wind . 
'What did you dream ? said Knight moodily . 
'Oh , nothing to be told . 
'Twas a sort of incubus . 
There is never anything in dreams . 
'I hardly supposed there was . 
However , what I so vividly dreamt was this , since you would like to hear . 
It was the brightest of bright mornings at East Endelstow Church , and you and I stood by the font . 
Far away in the chancel Lord Luxellian was standing alone , cold and impassive , and utterly unlike his usual self but I knew it was he . 
Inside the altar rail stood a strange clergyman with his book open . 
He looked up and said to Lord Luxellian , Where's the bride ? Lord Luxellian said , There's no bride . 
At that moment somebody came in at the door , and I knew her to be Lady Luxellian who died . 
He turned and said to her , I thought you were in the vault below us but that could have only been a dream of mine . 
And in brushing between us she chilled me so with cold that I exclaimed , The life is gone out of me ! and , in the way of dreams , I awoke . 
But here we are at Camelton . 
They were slowly entering the station . 
'What are you going to do ? said Knight . 
'Do you really intend to call on the Swancourts ? 'By no means . 
I am going to make inquiries first . 
I shall stay at the Luxellian Arms to night . 
You will go right on to Endelstow , I suppose , at once ? 'I can hardly do that at this time of the day . 
Perhaps you are not aware that the family her father , at any rate is at variance with me as much as with you . 
'And that I cannot rush into the house as an old friend any more than you can . 
Certainly I have the privileges of a distant relationship , whatever they may be . 
Knight let down the window , and looked ahead . 
'There are a great many people at the station , he said . 
'They seem all to be on the look out for us . 
When the train stopped , the half estranged friends could perceive by the lamplight that the assemblage of idlers enclosed as a kernel a group of men in black cloaks . 
A side gate in the platform railing was open , and outside this stood a dark vehicle , which they could not at first characterize . 
Then Knight saw on its upper part forms against the sky like cedars by night , and knew the vehicle to be a hearse . 
Few people were at the carriage doors to meet the passengers the majority had congregated at this upper end . 
Knight and Stephen alighted , and turned for a moment in the same direction . 
The sombre van , which had accompanied them all day from London , now began to reveal that their destination was also its own . 
It had been drawn up exactly opposite the open gate . 
The bystanders all fell back , forming a clear lane from the gateway to the van , and the men in cloaks entered the latter conveyance . 
'They are labourers , I fancy , said Stephen . 
'Ah , it is strange but I recognize three of them as Endelstow men . 
The eight men took the burden upon their shoulders , and slowly crossed with it over to the gate . 
Knight and Stephen went outside , and came close to the procession as it moved off . 
A carriage belonging to the cortege turned round close to a lamp . 
The rays shone in upon the face of the vicar of Endelstow , Mr. Swancourt looking many years older than when they had last seen him . 
Knight and Stephen involuntarily drew back . 
Knight spoke to a bystander . 
'What has Mr. Swancourt to do with that funeral ? 'He is the lady's father , said the bystander . 
'What lady's father ? said Knight , in a voice so hollow that the man stared at him . 
'The father of the lady in the coffin . 
She died in London , you know , and has been brought here by this train . 
She is to be taken home to night , and buried to morrow . 
Knight stood staring blindly at where the hearse had been as if he saw it , or some one , there . 
Then he turned , and beheld the lithe form of Stephen bowed down like that of an old man . 
He took his young friend's arm , and led him away from the light . 
Chapter XL 'Welcome , proud lady . 
Half an hour has passed . 
Two miserable men are wandering in the darkness up the miles of road from Camelton to Endelstow . 
'Has she broken her heart ? said Henry Knight . 
'Any man can say that , I suppose any man can . 
I know this , she was MY darling before she was yours and after too . 
If anybody has a right to call her his own , it is I. 'You talk like a man in the dark which is what you are . 
Did she ever do anything for you ? Risk her name , for instance , for you ? Yes , she did , said Stephen emphatically . 
Did she ever live for you prove she could not live without you laugh and weep for you ? 'Yes . 
'Never ! Did she ever risk her life for you no ! My darling did for me . 
'Then it was in kindness only . 
When did she risk her life for you ? 'To save mine on the cliff yonder . 
The poor child was with me looking at the approach of the Puffin steamboat , and I slipped down . 
We both had a narrow escape . 
I wish we had died there ! 'Ah , but wait , Stephen pleaded with wet eyes . 
'She went on that cliff to see me arrive home she had promised it . 
She told me she would months before . 
If we find that that she died yours , I'll say no more ever . 
'And if we find she died yours , I'll say no more . 
'Very well so it shall be . 
The dark clouds into which the sun had sunk had begun to drop rain in an increasing volume . 
'Can we wait somewhere here till this shower is over ? said Stephen desultorily . 
But it is not worth while . 
We'll hear the particulars , and return . 
Don't let people know who we are . 
I am not much now . 
Having come some of the distance by the footpath , they now found that the hearse was only a little in advance of them . 
'I fancy it has turned off to East Endelstow . 
Can you see ? 'I cannot . 
Knight and Stephen entered the village . 
A bar of fiery light lay across the road , proceeding from the half open door of a smithy , in which bellows were heard blowing and a hammer ringing . 
The rain had increased , and they mechanically turned for shelter towards the warm and cosy scene . 
Close at their heels came another man , without over coat or umbrella , and with a parcel under his arm . 
'A wet evening , he said to the two friends , and passed by them . 
They stood in the outer penthouse , but the man went in to the fire . 
The smith ceased his blowing , and began talking to the man who had entered . 
'I have walked all the way from Camelton , said the latter . 
'Was obliged to come to night , you know . 
He held the parcel , which was a flat one , towards the firelight , to learn if the rain had penetrated it . 
Resting it edgewise on the forge , he supported it perpendicularly with one hand , wiping his face with the handkerchief he held in the other . 
'I suppose you know what I've got here ? he observed to the smith . 
'No , I don't , said the smith , pausing again on his bellows . 
'As the rain's not over , I'll show you , said the bearer . 
He laid the thin and broad package , which had acute angles in different directions , flat upon the anvil , and the smith blew up the fire to give him more light . 
First , after untying the package , a sheet of brown paper was removed this was laid flat . 
Then he unfolded a piece of baize this also he spread flat on the paper . 
The third covering was a wrapper of tissue paper , which was spread out in its turn . 
The enclosure was revealed , and he held it up for the smith's inspection . 
'Oh I see ! said the smith , kindling with a chastened interest , and drawing close . 
'Poor young lady ah , terrible melancholy thing so soon too ! Knight and Stephen turned their heads and looked . 
'And what's that ? continued the smith . 
'That's the coronet beautifully finished , isn't it ? Ah , that cost some money ! ''Tis as fine a bit of metal work as ever I see that 'tis . 
'It came from the same people as the coffin , you know , but was not ready soon enough to be sent round to the house in London yesterday . 
I've got to fix it on this very night . 
The carefully packed articles were a coffin plate and coronet . 
Knight and Stephen came forward . 
They read it , and read it , and read it again Stephen and Knight as if animated by one soul . 
'Where shall we go ? said Stephen . 
'Elfride married ! said Stephen then in a thin whisper , as if he feared to let the assertion loose on the world . 
I hate false I hate it ! Knight made no answer . 
'Shall we follow Elfie any further ? Stephen said . 
'No let us leave her alone . 
She is beyond our love , and let her be beyond our reproach . 
I know that's it , don't you ? 'It may be it must be . 
They began to bend their steps towards Castle Boterel , whither they had sent their bags from Camelton . 
They wandered on in silence for many minutes . 
Stephen then paused , and lightly put his hand within Knight's arm . 
'I wonder how she came to die , he said in a broken whisper . 
'Shall we return and learn a little more ? They turned back again , and entering Endelstow a second time , came to a door which was standing open . 
It was that of an inn called the Welcome Home , and the house appeared to have been recently repaired and entirely modernized . 
The name too was not that of the same landlord as formerly , but Martin Cannister's . 
A woman in a white apron and black gown was standing there alone behind a cleanly scrubbed deal table . 
Stephen first , and Knight afterwards , recognized her as Unity , who had been parlour maid at the vicarage and young lady's maid at the Crags . 
'Unity , said Stephen softly , 'don't you know me ? She looked inquiringly a moment , and her face cleared up . 
Smith ay , that it is ! she said . 
I beg you to sit down . 
Perhaps you know that since I saw you last I have married Martin Cannister . 
'How long have you been married ? 'About five months . 
We were married the same day that my dear Miss Elfie became Lady Luxellian . 
Tears appeared in Unity's eyes , and filled them , and fell down her cheek , in spite of efforts to the contrary . 
The pain of the two men in resolutely controlling themselves when thus exampled to admit relief of the same kind was distressing . 
They both turned their backs and walked a few steps away . 
Then Unity said , 'Will you go into the parlour , gentlemen ? 'Let us stay here with her , Knight whispered , and turning said , 'No we will sit here . 
We want to rest and dry ourselves here for a time , if you please . 
That evening the sorrowing friends sat with their hostess beside the large fire , Knight in the recess formed by the chimney breast , where he was in shade . 
And by showing a little confidence they won hers , and she told them what they had stayed to hear the latter history of poor Elfride . 
'One day after you , Mr. Knight , left us for the last time she was missed from the Crags , and her father went after her , and brought her home ill . 
Where she went to , I never knew but she was very unwell for weeks afterwards . 
And she said to me that she didn't care what became of her , and she wished she could die . 
Well , it began like this about Lord Luxellian courting her . 
The first Lady Luxellian had died , and he was in great trouble because the little girls were left motherless . 
After a while they used to come and see her in their little black frocks , for they liked her as well or better than their own mother that's true . 
They used to call her little mamma . 
These children made her a shade livelier , but she was not the girl she had been I could see that and she grew thinner a good deal . 
Well , people say that the little girls asked their father to let Miss Elfride come and live with them , and that he said perhaps he would if they were good children . 
She laughed a little , and said , I shall live to be married yet , as you told me . 
Shall you , miss ? I am glad to hear that , I said . 
Whom do you think I am going to be married to ? she said again . 
Well , then , she came to herself after a time , and said , Unity , now we'll go on with our conversation . 
Better not to day , miss , I said . 
Yes , we will , she said . 
Whom do you think I am going to be married to ? I don't know , I said this time . 
'Tisn't my lord , is it ? says I. Yes , 'tis , says she , in a sick wild way . 
But he don't come courting much , I said . 
'Ah ! you don't know , she said , and told me 'twas going to be in October . 
After that she freshened up a bit whether 'twas with the thought of getting away from home or not , I don't know . 
For , perhaps , I may as well speak plainly , and tell you that her home was no home to her now . 
He wanted her the more because the children did , for everybody could see that she would be a most tender mother to them , and friend and playmate too . 
And my lord is not only handsome , but a splendid courter , and up to all the ways o't . 
So he made her the beautifullest presents ah , one I can mind a lovely bracelet , with diamonds and emeralds . 
Oh , how red her face came when she saw it ! The old roses came back to her cheeks for a minute or two then . 
It was a very quiet pair of weddings hardly anybody knew it . 
Well , hope will hold its own in a young heart , if so be it can and my lady freshened up a bit , for my lord was SO handsome and kind . 
'How came she to die and away from home ? murmured Knight . 
'Don't you see , sir , she fell off again afore they'd been married long , and my lord took her abroad for change of scene . 
They were coming home , and had got as far as London , when she was taken very ill and couldn't be moved , and there she died . 
'Was he very fond of her ? 'What , my lord ? Oh , he was ! 'VERY fond of her ? 'VERY , beyond everything . 
Not suddenly , but by slow degrees . 
'Twas her nature to win people more when they knew her well . 
He'd have died for her , I believe . 
The next day two men walked up the familiar valley from Castle Boterel to East Endelstow Church . 
He was still young younger , perhaps , than Knight and even now showed how graceful was his figure and symmetrical his build . 
He murmured a prayer half aloud , and was quite unconscious that two others were standing within a few yards of him . 
Not until then did they see the kneeling figure in the dim light . 
Knight instantly recognized the mourner as Lord Luxellian , the bereaved husband of Elfride . 
They felt themselves to be intruders . 
Knight pressed Stephen back , and they silently withdrew as they had entered . 
'Come away , he said , in a broken voice . 
'We have no right to be there . 
Another stands before us nearer to her than we ! And side by side they both retraced their steps down the grey still valley to Castle Boterel . 
