THE PRINCESS OF CLEVES by Madame de Lafayette THE PRINCESS OF CLEVES Grandeur and gallantry never appeared with more lustre in France , than in the last years of Henry the Second's reign . 
Never were finer women or more accomplished men seen in any Court , and Nature seemed to have taken pleasure in lavishing her greatest graces on the greatest persons . 
The Princess Elizabeth , since Queen of Spain , began now to manifest an uncommon wit , and to display those beauties , which proved afterwards so fatal to her . 
The King entrusted the Constable with the chief share in the administration of the Government , and treated the Duke of Guise and the Mareschal de St . 
The Constable did not expect to find the same disinclination to marriage in his second son which he had found in his eldest , but he proved mistaken . 
Quintin lessened the hopes we had of extending our conquests , and as fortune seemed to divide herself between two Kings , they both found themselves insensibly disposed to peace . 
Andre were plenipotentaries for the King the Duke of Alva , and the Prince of Orange for Philip the II , and the Duke and Duchess of Loraine were mediators . 
The principal articles were the marriage of the Princess Elizabeth of France with Don Carlos the Infanta of Spain , and that of his majesty's sister with the Duke of Savoy . 
The King promised to let nobody into the design but the Constable , secrecy being necessary , he knew , to the success of it . 
The death of Queen Mary brought great obstructions to the Treaty the Congress broke up at the end of November , and the King returned to Paris . 
In the evening he waited on his Majesty's sister . 
You ought to thank me , at least , for having acquainted her how much you are her admirer . 
The Chevalier de Guise , and the Prince , who were two bosom friends , took their leave of Madame together . 
The care of the ladies was to recommend themselves either to the Queen , the Dauphin Queen , or the Queen of Navarre , or to Madame , or the Duchess of Valentinois . 
Persons of gallantry are always glad of an opportunity of speaking to those who love them . 
No sooner was the Viscount gone , but the Queen Dauphin sent Chatelart to Monsieur d'Anville , to desire him from her to be at Court that evening . 
Chatelart was his favourite , and acquainted with his passion for this Princess , and therefore received her commands with great pleasure and respect . 
He was a gentleman of a good family in Dauphiny but his wit and merit distinguished him more than his birth he was well received at Court . 
Her ill fortune gave her to the least of them , and placed her in a kingdom where she meets with nothing but trouble . 
It was lucky for him that he addressed her at a time when what had happened had discouraged the approaches of others . 
The articles were concluded the King was acquainted with it , and the marriage made public . 
Mademoiselle de Chartres did not know what to answer these distinctions were above her comprehension . 
The Chevalier de Guise returned from a journey a few days before the marriage . 
Mademoiselle de Chartres was not ignorant of it and he made her sensible at his return , that she was the cause of that deep melancholy which appeared in his countenance . 
She acquainted her mother with the uneasiness which the Chevalier's passion gave her . 
The , Chevalier de Guise durst not distinguish himself by being absent from the ceremony , but he was so little master of himself that it was easy to observe his concern . 
He preserved for her a passion full of violence and inquietude , but without jealousy , which had no share in his griefs . 
Never was husband less inclined to it , and never was wife farther from giving the least occasion for it . 
Andre , a bold man and supported by the King's favour , became her lover without daring to let her know it any otherwise than by his cares and assiduities . 
Afterwards he waited on the Queens but the Princess of Cleves was not there , so that she did not see him , nor so much as know of his arrival . 
The Princess employed the day of the wedding in dressing herself , that she might appear with the greater advantage at the ball and royal banquet that were to be at the Louvre . 
When she came , everyone admired both her beauty and her dress . 
It was as impossible to behold the Princess of Cleves without equal admiration . 
When they begun to dance , a soft murmur of praises ran through the whole company . 
I believe , said the Queen Dauphin , that she knows your name as well as you know hers . 
I assure you , Madam , replied the Princess a little embarrassed , that I am not so good a guesser as you imagine . 
The Queen interrupted them , that the ball might go on and the Duke de Nemours took out the Queen Dauphin . 
The Duchess of Valentinois made one in all parties of pleasure and the King was still as passionately fond of her as in the beginning of his love . 
I am so entirely ignorant of them , that I thought a few days ago , the Constable was very well with the Queen . 
If you judge from appearances in a Court , replied Madam de Chartres , you will often be deceived truth and appearances seldom go together . 
His daughter appeared at Court as the King's mistress but the Italian expedition , and the imprisonment of the present Prince , were interruptions to his love affair . 
She succeeded in it , as you see , and this passion is now of above twenty years' duration , without being changed either by time or incidents . 
This emulation began from their infancy , and was still kept up in its height . 
Hence rose two factions at Court , of such a nature as you may imagine , but the intrigues of them were not confined to the quarrels of women . 
The Emperor , who continued to have a great friendship for the Duke of Orleans , had offered several times to make over to him the Duchy of Milan . 
In the propositions which were since made for the peace , he gave hopes of assigning him the seventeen provinces , with his daughter in marriage . 
This Duchess did not long enjoy the success of her treason . 
Nevertheless the first thing the King his son did was to recall him , and make him his Prime Minister . 
It was no difficult matter to do him hurt . 
The King has had a great many other subjects of jealousy , but either he has not been informed of them , or has not dared to complain of them . 
I don't know , daughter , added Madam de Chartres , if I have not already told you more of these things , than you desired to know . 
The Queen Dauphin herself , for whom his regards had been very tender , could no longer preserve a place in that heart which was now devoted to the Princess of Cleves . 
His impatience of making a tour to England began to abate , and he showed no earnestness in hastening his equipage . 
Andre's Ball , and present the Princess of Cleves with some , as she had promised her . 
While they were thus employed , the Prince of Conde entered his great quality gave him free access everywhere . 
The Duke de Nemours finds , answered the Prince of Conde , that nothing is so insupportable to lovers as balls , whether they are beloved again , or whether they are not . 
Andre , the King having sent him to meet the Duke of Ferrara . 
The Queen Dauphin , and the Prince of Conde , not going into the Duke's opinion , were very merry upon the subject . 
Madam de Cleves voluntarily consented to pass some days at her mother's , in order not to go to any place where the Duke of Nemours was not to be . 
However the Duke set out , without the pleasure of knowing she would not be at the ball . 
The day after , while he was at the Queen's apartments , and talking to the Queen Dauphin , Madam de Chartres and Madam de Cleves came in . 
Madam de Cleves was dressed a little negligently , as a person who had been indisposed , but her countenance did not at all correspond with her dress . 
Andre , and that that's the reason which hindered you from going . 
Madam de Cleves blushed , both because the Queen Dauphin had conjectured right , and because she spoke her conjecture in the presence of the Duke de Nemours . 
The Princess of Cleves at first was concerned the Duke had any room to believe it was he who had hindered her from going to the Mareschal de St . 
Andre but afterwards she was a little chagrined that her mother had entirely taken off the suspicion of it . 
Madam de Chartres perceived it . 
Visitors came in that moment and the Princess of Cleves retired to her own apartment , and shut herself up in her closet . 
Madam de Cleves was in extreme grief on this occasion , and never stirred out of her mother's chamber . 
After they were gone , she caused everybody to retire , and sent for Madam de Cleves . 
Madam de Cleves bathed with tears her mother's hand , which she held fast locked in her own nor was Madam de Chartres less moved . 
The Prince of Cleves went to Paris to make his Court , and promised his lady to return the next day , but however he did not return till the day after . 
You surprise me , answered Madam de Cleves , I have heard you say several times , that there was not a lady at Court you had a greater respect for . 
II You know the friendship , there is betwixt Sancerre and me . 
Madam de Tournon as yet appeared inconsolable for the death of her husband , and lived in retirement with great austerity . 
Sancerre's sister was in a manner the only person she saw , and it was at her lodgings he became in love with her . 
You may judge what surprise I was in I looked hard at Madam de Tournon , and she seemed disordered her disorder gave me a suspicion . 
He set out about three months ago during his absence I have seldom seen Madam de Tournon you have entirely taken me up , and I only knew that he was speedily expected . 
'Tis impossible to be more surprised than I am , said Madam de Cleves I thought Madam de Tournon equally incapable of love and falsehood . 
These last words of the Queen Dauphin gave Madam de Cleves a sort of uneasiness very different from that which she had a few minutes before . 
From thence I shall make a visit of a very different nature , to congratulate the King's sister . 
All things are ready for her marriage with the Prince of Savoy , who is expected in a few days . 
It is true , replied the Princess , she has observed it , and I think I remember to have heard her say something about it . 
Madam de Cleves apprehended the Queen Dauphin's meaning , but knew withal , that the fortune the Duke of Nemours spoke of was not that of being King of England . 
I think , replied Madam de Cleves , 'tis said she was born in France . 
Those who imagine so are mistaken , replied the Queen Dauphin I'll give you her history in a few words . 
And Henry the Eighth died , being become excessive fat . 
The Queen Dauphin caused pictures in miniature to be drawn of all the beauties of the Court , in order to send them to the Queen her mother . 
The Queen Dauphin was sitting on the bed , and whispering to Madam de Cleves , who was standing before her . 
The peace was signed and the Lady Elizabeth , after a great deal of reluctance , resolved to obey the King her father . 
The Duke of Alva was appointed to marry her in the name of the Catholic King , and was very soon expected . 
The Duke of Savoy too , who was to marry the King's sister , and whose nuptials were to be solemnised at the same time , was expected every day . 
The King thought of nothing but how to grace these marriages with such diversions as might display the politeness and magnificence of his Court . 
The King made choice of them to be together with himself the four champions of the tournament . 
The champions to furnish lances , swords , and pikes , at the choice of the combatants . 
Whoever did not manage his horse in the carreer to be put out of the lists four judges of the field to give orders . 
A spacious list was made near the Bastille , which begun from the Chateau des Tournelles and crossed the street of St . 
A few days before the Duke of Alva's arrival , the King made a match at tennis with the Duke de Nemours , the Chevalier de Guise , and the Viscount de Chartres . 
The Queens came to see them play , attended with the ladies of the Court , and among others Madam de Cleves . 
The company ran up to him , and he was thought considerably hurt but the Princess of Cleves thought the hurt much greater than anyone else . 
Madam de Cleves , after she was recovered from the fright she had been in , presently reflected on the tokens she had given of it . 
Madam de Cleves , when she came out of the lists , went to the Queen's apartment , with her thoughts wholly taken up with what had passed . 
The King coming out of his closet , and seeing him among others called him to talk to him about his late accident . 
The Queen Dauphin , who was extremely impatient to know what there was in the letter which Chatelart had given her , came up to Madam de Cleves . 
The fantasticalness of your heart was such , that you advanced towards me in proportion as you saw I retreated from you . 
But she was far from that tranquillity which inclines to sleep all the night she did nothing but torment herself , and read over and over the letter in her hand . 
Madam de Cleves was not the only person whom this letter disturbed . 
The Viscount de Chartres , who had lost it and not the Duke de Nemours , was in the utmost inquietude about it . 
Having said this , he would have taken out the letter , but could not find it he searched for it to no purpose . 
Accordingly he went to the Duke's house , and entered his room about break of day . 
One day among others she fell into a discourse concerning confidence . 
I was so pleased with this distinction that I made my court to her with greater assiduity than usual . 
Come in the evening , when I am writing , replied she , and you shall have further orders . 
I made a respectful bow without answering anything , and did not fail to attend at the hour she had appointed me . 
I found her in the gallery , with her secretary and one of her women . 
The Queen , my daughter in law , proud of her beauty , and the authority of her uncles , pays me no respect . 
The Constable Montmorency is master of the King and kingdom he hates me , and has given proofs of his hatred , which I shall never forget . 
Andre is a bold young favourite , who uses me no better than the others . 
Thus shall I be equally embroiled both with the person I love most , and with the person I have most cause to fear . 
I thought I had told you , replied the Viscount , that the Queen Dauphin had been informed that you dropped it . 
Madam de Cleves by her silence showed her readiness to hear him , and he as succinctly as possible related to her all he had just heard from the Viscount . 
The Duke having read the billet , which fully justified him , presented it to her to read , and told her she might possibly know the hand . 
Madam de Cleves , under pretence of serving her uncle , was pleased to be the Duke de Nemours's confidant in the secrets he had imparted to her . 
Monsieur de Cleves had the imprudence to tell him he had it , and the weakness to yield to the entreaties the Duke de Nemours made that he would restore it him . 
You throw me into the greatest embarrassment I can possibly be in , replied the Queen Dauphin and you have given this letter to the Duke de Nemours . 
Do you remember , pretty near , what the letter contains ? says the Queen Dauphin . 
Yes , Madam , I do , replied she , for I have read it over more than once . 
As soon as she was got home , she informed her husband of what had passed between her and the Queen Dauphin , and begged him to send for the Duke de Nemours . 
She continued in this resolution , and spent the whole evening at home , without going to the Queen Dauphin to enquire what had happened with respect to the counterfeited letter . 
When the Prince of Cleves returned home , she told him she was resolved to go into the country that she was not very well , and had occasion to take the air . 
The Duke de Nemours did this in hopes of visiting Madam de Cleves , in company of the Viscount . 
What is it , Madam , cried Monsieur de Cleves , that you lead me to imagine ? I dare not speak it , for fear of offending you . 
Monsieur de Cleves , all the while she spoke , continued leaning his head on his hand , almost beside himself , and never thought of raising her up . 
I beg you not to ask me , replied she I am resolved not to tell you , nor do I think it prudent to name him . 
In the meantime Monsieur de Cleves was gone to the King , with a heart full of sorrow and affliction . 
She returned according to his orders , and when they met , they found one another overwhelmed with melancholy . 
Andre , the Duke de Nemours , or the Chevalier de Guise . 
Monsieur de Cleves had his eye fixed on his wife , when it was further said , the Chevalier de Guise , or the Mareschal de St . 
Having said this , he went out , being unwilling to increase , by his presence , the concern he saw his wife in . 
A few days before that which was fixed for the ceremony of the marriage , the Queen Dauphin entertained at supper the King her father in law , and the Duchess of Valentinois . 
You are too wise , said the Queen Dauphin smiling , and turned to the Duke de Nemours . 
She imagined she understood well enough the drift of what he said , but without making any answer to it , she continued to rally him upon the embarrassment he was in . 
Jealousy , said he , and a curiosity perhaps of knowing more than a wife has thought fit to discover , may make a husband do a great many imprudent things . 
Madam de Cleves pretended not to hear him , and left him without giving him a look , and went towards the King , who was just come in . 
This adventure is known , and I have been told it by those who are not aware that I am principally concerned in it . 
Ah ! Sir , replied she , the world has not an adventure like mine , there is not another woman capable of such a thing . 
The story I have heard could not have been invented by chance nobody could imagine any like it an action of this nature never entered any thoughts but mine . 
The Queen Dauphin has just told me the story she had it from the Viscount de Chartres , and the Viscount from the Duke de Nemours . 
Madam de Cleves thought much after the same manner she found it equally impossible that her husband should , or should not have spoken of it . 
It was before the utmost of his wishes to have a conversation with her , but now he found he ought rather to fear than desire it . 
He resolved also not to reproach the Viscount de Chartres for his unfaithfulness , for fear of confirming his suspicions . 
The espousals were solemnised at the Louvre and after the feast and ball all the Royal family went to lie at the Bishop's Palace , according to custom . 
However full of grief Madam de Cleves was , she appeared in the eyes of all beholders , and particularly in those of the Duke de Nemours , incomparably beautiful . 
The King's colours were white and black , which he always wore in honour of the Duchess of Valentinois , who was a widow . 
The Duke of Ferrara and his retinue had yellow and red . 
Monsieur de Guise's carnation and white . 
As for the Duke , he thought he might take that colour without any indiscretion , since not being worn by Madam de Cleves it could not be suspected to be hers . 
The four champions showed the greatest address that can be imagined though the King was the best horseman in his kingdom , it was hard to say which of them most excelled . 
The Duke de Nemours had a grace in all his actions which might have inclined to his favour persons less interested than Madam de Cleves . 
One may imagine what sorrow and affliction so fatal an accident occasioned on a day set apart to mirth and joy . 
The King was carried to bed , and the surgeons having examined his wound found it very considerable . 
The Queens , the Princes and Princesses hardly ever went out of his anti chamber . 
The evening before his death he caused Madame his sister to be married to the Duke of Savoy without ceremony . 
The Duke de Nemours led the Queen Mother . 
The command of the Army was given to the Duke of Guise and the care of the finances to the Cardinal of Loraine . 
A few days after the King's death , it was resolved the new King should go to Rheims to be crowned . 
Fortune favoured his intention and Madam de Nevers and Madam de Martigues , whom he met in the Court as they were coming out , informed him they had left her alone . 
I did not think , replied Madam de Cleves , whatever suspicions you have of the Duke de Nemours , that you could reproach me for not admitting a visit from him . 
The Duke de Nemours was of this number , and it was that perhaps which had made Madam de Cleves desirous of having the pictures . 
Madam de Martigues not being able to go along with the Court , promised her to come and pass some days at Colomiers . 
Madam de Martigues having never seen Colomiers was surprised at the extraordinary beauty of it , and particularly with the pleasantness of the pavilion . 
Madam de Cleves and she usually passed the evenings there . 
The Duke de Nemours and the Prince of Cleves were with the Queen at that time . 
The gentleman , who was very capable of this commission , acquitted himself of it with all the exactness imaginable . 
He followed the Duke to a village within half a league of Colomiers , where the Duke stopped and the gentleman easily guessed his meaning was to stay there till night . 
When she had made some reflection , she thought she had been deceived , and that her fancying she saw Monsieur de Nemours was only the effect of imagination . 
These thoughts employed the Duke de Nemours all the day he wished impatiently for the night , and as soon as it came he returned to Colomiers . 
It was impossible for him to return to Court without seeing Madam de Cleves he made a visit to his sister the Duchess of Mercoeur , at her house near Colomiers . 
And yet , I don't believe , replied Madam de Cleves , that the Duke de Nemours was ever there it has been finished but a little while . 
It is true , Madam , replied he , I was there without your orders , and I passed there the most sweet and cruel moments of my life . 
The Duke was struck with such a violent grief to find that Madam de Cleves still continued to exercise the same rigours towards him , that he turned pale that moment . 
'Tis enough , replied Monsieur de Cleves , still making signs to him to withdraw , 'tis enough I want no further information . 
The gentleman was forced to leave his master , abandoned to his despair nor ever was despair more violent . 
In the meantime Monsieur de Cleves was almost given over by his physicians . 
I'll take all the oaths . 
Speak no more of it , said he interrupting her , false oaths or a confession would perhaps give me equal pain . 
He would have gone on , but was so weak that his speech failed him . 
Madam de Cleves sent for the physicians , who found him almost lifeless yet he languished some days , and died at last with admirable constancy . 
He took a journey to Paris , nor could he forbear calling at her house to enquire how she did . 
After several months the violence of her grief abated , and she fell into a languishing kind of melancholy . 
She talked to her of the Viscount , of Monsieur de Guise , and of all others that were distinguished either in person or merit . 
The Duke de Nemours's name surprised Madam de Cleves , and made her blush she changed the discourse , nor did Madam de Martigues take notice of her concern . 
After two hours' stay in this place she returned home , convinced that it was indispensably her duty to avoid the sight of the man she loved . 
Tired at last with so unfortunate and uncertain a condition , he resolved to attempt something to determine his fate What should I wait for ? said he . 
Monsieur de Nemours entreated him to give him an opportunity of speaking to her , and learning what disposition she was in . 
You deserve a happier fortune than you have hitherto had , or than you can have for the future , unless you seek it elsewhere . 
My duty , replied she , forbids me to think of any man , but of you the last in the world , and for reasons which are unknown to you . 
Those reasons perhaps are not unknown to me , answered he , but they are far from being good ones . 
I believe that Monsieur de Cleves thought me happier than I was , and imagined that you approved of those extravagancies which my passion led me into without your approbation . 
The reason you speak of , replied Madam de Cleves , is so little disobliging as to you , that I don't know how to tell it you . 
Do you believe you have the power to do it , Madam ? cried the Duke de Nemours . 
With these words she went away , nor could Monsieur de Nemours detain her . 
