Three Elephant Power and Other Stories by Andrew Barton Banjo' Paterson Australian Poet , Reporter . 
Note on text Italicized words or phrases are capitalized . 
Some obvious errors have been corrected . 
This etext is transcribed from the original edition of , which was published in Sydney . 
Three Elephant Power and Other Stories By A. B. Paterson , Author of The Man from Snowy River , Rio Grande , Saltbush Bill , J. P. , An Outback Marriage , Etc . 
These stories appeared originally in several Australian journals . 
But , Lord , you can fix 'em up if you want to . 
Alfred was part of that car . 
Weirdly intelligent , of poor physique , he might have been any age from fifteen to eighty . 
His education had been somewhat hurried , but there was no doubt as to his mechanical ability . 
He took to a car like a young duck to water . 
As we flew past a somnolent bush pub , Alfred , whistling softly , leant forward and turned on a little more oil . 
You never heard about Henery and the elephant ? he said . 
Henery was a bushwacker , but clean mad on motorin' . 
He was wood and water joey at some squatter's place until he seen a motor car go past one day , the first that ever they had in the districk . 
That's my game , says Henery no more wood and water joey for me . 
So he comes to town and gets a job off Miles that had that garage at the back of Allison's . 
A queer cove this Henery was half mad , I think , but the best hand with a car ever I see . 
While he had been talking we topped a hill , and opened up a new stretch of blue grey granite like road . 
There was a turn in the road just below the waggon which looked a bit sharp , so of course Alfred bore down on it like a whirlwind . 
The big stupid team horses huddled together and pushed each other awkwardly as we passed . 
A dog that had been sleeping in the shade of the waggon sprang out right in front of the car , and was exterminated without ever knowing what struck him . 
There was just room to clear the tail of the waggon and negotiate the turn . 
Alfred , with the calm decision of a Napoleon , swung round the bend to find that the teamster's hack , fast asleep , was tied to the tail of the waggon . 
Nothing but a lightning like twist of the steering wheel prevented our scooping the old animal up , and taking him on board as a passenger . 
As it was , we carried off most of his tail as a trophy on the brass of the lamp . 
The old steed , thus rudely awakened , lashed out good and hard , but by that time we were gone , and he missed the car by a quarter of a mile . 
O' course that didn't suit Henery . 
He used to get that spiked when a car passed him , he'd nearly go mad . 
But at last he persuaded old John Bull to let him go to England and buy a car for him . 
He was to do a year in the shops , and pick up all the wrinkles , and get a car for the old man . 
A few sheep were crushed somewhat , but it is well known that a sheep is practically indestructible by violence . 
Whatever Alfred's faults were , he certainly could drive . 
Do you know wot he got ? No , I don't . 
'E got a ninety , said Alfred slowly , giving time for the words to soak in . 
There's lots of cheap cars made like that . 
No one would take him on after that . 
A nasty creek crossing here required Alfred's attention . 
A little girl , carrying a billy can of water , stood by the stepping stones , and smiled shyly as we passed . 
Alfred waved her a salute quite as though he were an ordinary human being . 
He had his moments of relaxation evidently , and his affections like other people . 
What happened to Henry and the ninety horse machine ? I asked . 
And where does the elephant come in ? Alfred smiled pityingly . 
Ain't I tellin' yer , he said . 
You wouldn't understand if I didn't tell yer how he got the car and all that . 
You see he was passin' 'em so fast he thought they were all comin' towards him . 
And Henery sees a mate of his comin' , so he lets out a notch or two , and the two cars flew by each other like chain lightnin' . 
They were each doin' about forty , and the old man , he says , There's a driver must be travellin' a hundred miles an hour , he says . 
I never see a car go by so fast in my life , he says . 
If I could find out who he is , I'd report him , he says . 
Did you know the car , Henery ? But of course Henery , he doesn't know , so on they goes . 
And then he keeps there just half a length ahead of him , tormentin' him like . 
And the owner of the French car he yells out to old John Bull , You're going a nice pace for an old 'un , he says . 
Old John has a blink down at the indicator . 
We're doing twenty five , he yells out . 
Twenty five grandmothers , says the bloke but Henery he put on his accelerator , and left him . 
It wouldn't do to let the old man get wise to it , you know . 
We topped a big hill , and Alfred cut off the engine and let the car swoop , as swiftly and noiselessly as an eagle , down to the flat country below . 
You're a long while coming to the elephant , Alfred , I said . 
One day Henery and the old man were going out a long trip over the mountain , and down the Kangaroo Valley Road that's all cut out of the side of the 'ill . 
And after they's gone a mile or two , Henery sees a track in the road the track of the biggest car he ever seen or 'eard of . 
An' the more he looks at it , the more he reckons he must ketch that car and see what she's made of . 
So he slows down passin' two yokels on the road , and he says , Did you see a big car along 'ere ? Yes , we did , they says . 
How big is she ? says Henery . 
Biggest car ever we see , says the yokels , and they laughed that silly way these yokels always does . 
How many horse power do you think she was ? says Henery . 
Alfred lit another cigarette as a preliminary to the climax . 
So they run for miles , and all the time there's the track ahead of 'em , and Henery keeps lettin' her out , thinkin' that he'll never ketch that car . 
They went through a town so fast , the old man he says , What house was that we just passed , he says . 
At last they come to the top of the big 'ill , and there's the tracks of the big car goin' straight down ahead of 'em . 
And comin' to one turn Henery gives a toot on the 'orn , and then he heard somethin' go toot , toot' right away down the mountain . 
'Bout a mile ahead it seemed to be , and Henery reckoned he'd go another four miles before he'd ketch it , so he chances them turns more than ever . 
Three elephant power it was , right enough . 
That was the waggon wot made the big track . 
Well , it was all done so sudden . 
But he never done nothin' to the old bloke . 
Never get another like him , he says . 
We were nearly at our journey's end , and we turned through a gate into the home paddocks . 
Some young stock , both horses and cattle , came frisking and cantering after the car , and the rough bush track took all Alfred's attention . 
We crossed a creek , the water swishing from the wheels , and began the long pull up to the homestead . 
Over the clamour of the little used second speed , Alfred concluded his narrative . 
The old bloke advertised , he said , for another driver , a steady , reliable man to drive a twenty horse power , four cylinder touring car . 
Every driver in Sydney put in for it . 
Nothing like a fast car to fetch 'em , you know . 
Him wot used to drive the Napier I was tellin' you about . 
And what did the old man say when he found he'd been running a racing car ? He don't know now . 
Why should he ? He's drivin' about the country now , the boss of the roads , but he won't chance her near a circus . 
Thinks he might bump the same elephant . 
And that elephant , every time he smells a car passin' in the road , he goes near mad with fright . 
If he ever sees that car again , do you think he'd know it ? Not being used to elephants , I could not offer an opinion . 
He knows all the trainers and owners , or takes care to give the impression that he does . 
Well , he says , at last , of course there's only one in it if he's wanted . 
But that's it will they spin him ? I don't think they will . 
They's only a lot o' cuddies , any'ow . 
They don't know when their horses are well half of 'em . 
Then a voice comes from behind him . 
It is that of the thin man , who is crushed out of sight by the bulk of the Oracle . 
I think , says the thin man , that that horse of Flannery's ought to run well in the Handicap . 
The Oracle can't stand this sort of thing at all . 
He gives a snort , wheels half round and looks at the speaker . 
Then he turns back to the compartment full of people , and says No 'ope . 
The thin man makes a last effort . 
Well , they backed him last night , anyhow . 
Who backed 'im ? says the Oracle . 
In Tattersall's , says the thin man . 
I'm sure , says the Oracle and the thin man collapses . 
On arrival at the course , the Oracle is in great form . 
Attended by his string of satellites , he plods from stall to stall staring at the horses . 
Their names are printed in big letters on the stalls , but the Oracle doesn't let that stop his display of knowledge . 
'Ere's Blue Fire , he says , stopping at that animal's stall , and swinging his race book . 
Good old Blue Fire ! he goes on loudly , as a little court collects . 
told me he couldn't have lost on Saturday week if he had only been ridden different . 
I had a good stake on him , too , that day . 
Lor' , the races that has been chucked away on this horse . 
They will not ride him right . 
A trainer who is standing by , civilly interposes . 
This isn't Blue Fire , he says . 
Blue Fire's out walking about . 
This is a two year old filly that's in the stall Well , I can see that , can't I , says the Oracle , crushingly . 
You don't suppose I thought Blue Fire was a mare , did you ? and he moves off hurriedly . 
Now , look here , you chaps , he says to his followers at last . 
I want to go and see a few of the talent , and it don't do to have a crowd with you . 
There's Jimmy M over there now . 
I'll get hold of him in a minute . 
He couldn't tell me anything with so many about . 
I think I'll put a bit on Royal Scot . 
This is enough for the Oracle . 
He doesn't know either of the men from Adam , or either of the horses from the great original pachyderm , but the information will do to go on with . 
He rejoins his followers , and looks very mysterious . 
Well , did you hear anything ? they say . 
The Oracle talks low and confidentially . 
The crowd that have got the favourite tell me they're not afraid of anything but Royal Scot , he says . 
I think we'd better put a bit on both . 
What did the Royal Scot crowd say ? asks an admirer deferentially . 
Oh , they're going to try and win . 
I saw the stable commissioner , and he told me they were going to put a hundred on him . 
Of course , you needn't say I told you , 'cause I promised him I wouldn't tell . 
And the satellites beam with admiration of the Oracle , and think what a privilege it is to go to the races with such a knowing man . 
He finds that the favourite is at two to one , and Royal Scot at threes , eight to one being offered against anything else . 
What are you backing ? he says . 
Favourite and Royal Scot , says the Oracle . 
Put a pound on Bendemeer , says the tipster . 
Meet me here if it comes off , and I'll tell you something for the next race . 
Get on quick ! The Oracle is humble enough before the hanger on of the turf . 
A bookmaker roars to Bendemeer he suddenly fishes out a sovereign of his own and he hasn't money to spare , for all his knowingness and puts it on Bendemeer . 
His friends' money he puts on the favourite and Royal Scot as arranged . 
Then they all go round to watch the race . 
The horses are at the post a distant cluster of crowded animals with little dots of colour on their backs . 
They're off ! The long line of colours across the track becomes a shapeless clump and then draws out into a long string . 
What's that in front ? yells someone at the rails . 
Oh , that thing of Hart's , says someone else . 
But the Oracle hears them not he is looking in the mass of colour for a purple cap and grey jacket , with black arm bands . 
He cannot see it anywhere , and the confused and confusing mass swings round the turn into the straight . 
Then there is a babel of voices , and suddenly a shout of Bendemeer ! Bendemeer ! and the Oracle , without knowing which is Bendemeer , takes up the cry feverishly . 
Bendemeer ! Bendemeer ! he yells , waggling his glasses about , trying to see where the animal is . 
Where's Royal Scot , Charley ? Where's Royal Scot ? screams one of his friends , in agony . 
'Ow's he doin' ? No 'ope ! says the Oracle , with fiendish glee . 
The Oracle doesn't know what has won , but fumbles with his book . 
The number on the saddle cloth catches his eye No. he looks hurriedly down the page . 
Hardly has he realised it , before his friends are cheering and clapping him on the back . 
By George , Charley , it takes you to pick 'em . 
Come and 'ave a wet ! You 'ad a quid in , didn't you , Charley ? The Oracle feels very sick at having missed the winner , but he dies game . 
Yes , rather I had a quid on , he says . 
I had a saver on the second , too . 
His comrades gasp with astonishment . 
D'you hear that , eh ? Charley backed first and second . 
That's pickin' 'em if you like . 
They have a wet , and pour fulsome adulation on the Oracle when he collects their money . 
After the Oracle has collected the winnings for his friends he meets the Whisperer again . 
It didn't win ? he says to the Whisperer in inquiring tones . 
Didn't win , says the Whisperer , who has determined to brazen the matter out . 
How could he win ? Did you see the way he was ridden ? That horse was stiffened just after I seen you , and he never tried a yard . 
Did you see the way he was pulled and hauled about at the turn ? It'd make a man sick . 
What was the stipendiary stewards doing , I wonder ? This fills the Oracle with a new idea . 
All that he remembers of the race at the turn was a jumble of colours , a kaleidoscope of horses and of riders hanging on to the horses' necks . 
But it wouldn't do to admit that he didn't see everything , and didn't know everything so he plunges in boldly . 
O' course I saw it , he says . 
And a blind man could see it . 
They ought to rub him out . 
Course they ought , says the Whisperer . 
But , look here , put two quid on Tell tale you'll get it all back ! The Oracle does put on two quid , and doesn't get it all back . 
Neither does he see any more of this race than he did of the last one in fact , he cheers wildly when the wrong horse is coming in . 
The Cast iron Canvasser The firm of Sloper and Dodge , publishers and printers , was in great distress . 
These two enterprising individuals had worked up an enormous business in time payment books , which they sold all over Australia by means of canvassers . 
They had put all the money they had into the business and now , just when everything was in thorough working order , the public had revolted against them . 
Their canvassers were molested by the country folk in divers strange bush ways . 
If he disregarded the hint he would , as likely as not , fall accidentally down a disused shaft . 
The people of one district applied to their M. P. to have canvassers brought under the Noxious Animals Act , and demanded that a reward should be offered for their scalps . 
In fact , it was altogether too hot for the canvassers , and they came in from North and West and South , crippled and disheartened , to tender their resignations . 
Sloper was a long , sanctimonious individual , very religious and very bald . 
Dodge was a little , fat American , with bristly , black hair and beard , and quick , beady eyes . 
He was eternally smoking a reeking black pipe , and puffing the smoke through his nose in great whiffs , like a locomotive on a steep grade . 
Anybody walking into one of those whiffs was liable to get paralysis . 
Just as things were at their very blackest , something had turned up that promised to relieve all their difficulties . 
when wound up would walk , talk , collect orders , and stand any amount of ill usage and wear and tear . 
If this could indeed be done , they were saved . 
They had made an appointment with the genius but he was half an hour late , and the partners were steeped in gloom . 
They had begun to despair of his appearing at all , when a cab rattled up to the door . 
Sloper and Dodge rushed unanimously to the window . 
A young man , very badly dressed , stepped out of the cab , holding over his shoulder what looked like the upper half of a man's body . 
In his disengaged hand he held a pair of human legs with boots and trousers on . 
The man bolted in at the door , and toiled up the dark stairs tramping heavily , the legs and feet , which he dragged after him , making an unearthly clatter . 
He came in and put his burden down on the sofa . 
There you are , gents , he said there's your canvasser . 
Sloper and Dodge recoiled in horror . 
The partners gazed at him for a while in silence . 
Fix him together , for God's sake , said Dodge . 
The Genius grinned , and fixed the legs on . 
That's all right , said the Inventor . 
It's no good having his face knocked about , you know lot of trouble to make that face . 
Griffo couldn't dodge it , and Slavin couldn't stand up against it . 
No fear of any man hitting HIM twice . 
And he's dog proof , too . 
His legs are padded with tar and oakum , and if a dog bites a bit out of him , it will take that dog weeks to pick his teeth clean . 
Never bite anybody again , that dog won't . 
He'll go on saying it till he talks his man silly , or gets an order . 
Grand idea , isn't he ? Lor' bless you , I fairly love him . 
He beamed affectionately on his monster . 
What about stairs ? said Dodge . 
No stairs in the bush , said the Inventor , blowing a speck of dust off his apparition all ground floor houses . 
Anyhow , if there were stairs we could carry him up and let him fall down afterwards , or get flung down like any other canvasser . 
Ha ! Let's see him walk , said Dodge . 
The figure walked all right , stiff and erect . 
Now let's hear him yabber . 
The Genius touched a spring , and instantly , in a queer , tin whistly voice , he began to sing , Little Annie Rooney . 
Good ! said Dodge he'll do . 
We'll give you your price . 
Leave him here to night , and come in to morrow . 
We'll send you off to the back country with him . 
Ninemile would be a good place to start in . 
Have a cigar ? Mr. Dodge , much elated , sucked at his pipe , and blew through his nose a cloud of nearly solid smoke , through which the Genius sidled out . 
They could hear him sneezing and choking all the way down the stairs . 
Ninemile is a quiet little place , sleepy beyond description . 
When the mosquitoes in that town settle on anyone , they usually go to sleep , and forget to bite him . 
The climate is so hot that the very grasshoppers crawl into the hotel parlours out of the sun , climb up the window curtains , and then go to sleep . 
The Riot Act never had to be read in Ninemile . 
The only thing that can arouse the inhabitants out of their lethargy is the prospect of a drink at somebody else's expense . 
For these reasons it had been decided to start the Cast iron Canvasser there , and then move him on to more populous and active localities if he proved a success . 
They sent up the Genius , and one of their men who knew the district well . 
They got through a good deal of whisky on the way up , and when they arrived at Ninemile were in a cheerful mood , and disposed to take risks . 
Who'll we begin on ? said the Genius . 
Oh , hang it all , said the other , let's make a start with Macpherson . 
Macpherson was a Land Agent , and the big bug of the place . 
He was a gigantic Scotchman , six feet four in his socks , and freckled all over with freckles as big as half crowns . 
His eyebrows would have made decent sized moustaches for a cavalryman , and his moustaches looked like horns . 
He was a fighter from the ground up , and had a desperate down on canvassers generally , and on Sloper and Dodge's canvassers in particular . 
Sloper and Dodge had published a book called Remarkable Colonials , and Macpherson had written out his own biography for it . 
He showed how his people had fought under Alexander the Great and Timour , and had come over to Scotland some centuries before William the Conqueror landed in England . 
He proved that he was related in a general way to one emperor , fifteen kings , twenty five dukes , and earls and lords and viscounts innumerable . 
It was a terrible outrage . 
Macpherson became president of the Western District Branch of the Remarkable Colonials Defence League , a fierce and homicidal association got up to resist , legally and otherwise , paying for the book . 
He had a dog of what he called the Hold'em breed , who could tell a canvasser by his walk , and would go for him on sight . 
The Inventor wound the figure up in the back parlour of the pub . 
It had a book tucked under its arm and an order form in its hand . 
When they arrived opposite Macpherson's office , the Genius started the phonograph working , pointed the figure straight at Macpherson's door , and set it going . 
Then the two conspirators waited , like Guy Fawkes in his cellar . 
The automaton marched across the road and in at the open door , talking to itself loudly in a hoarse , unnatural voice . 
Macpherson was writing at his table , and looked up . 
It was talking all the time . 
I have here , it said , a most valuable work , an Atlas of Australia , which I desire to submit to your notice . 
The large and increasing demand of bush residents for time payment works has induced the publishers of this My God ! said Macpherson , it's a canvasser . 
Here , Tom Sayers , Tom Sayers ! and he whistled and called for his dog . 
Which'll it be ? works of modern ages , said the canvasser . 
Every person subscribing to this invaluable work will receive , in addition , a flat iron , a railway pass for a year , and a pocket compass . 
If you will please sign this order Just here Tom Sayers came tearing through the office , and without waiting for orders hitched straight on to the canvasser's calf . 
To Macpherson's amazement the piece came clear away , and Tom Sayers rolled about on the floor with his mouth full of a sticky substance which seemed to surprise him badly . 
The long Scotchman paused awhile before this mystery , but at last he fancied he had got the solution . 
Quicker than lightning came that terrific right hand cross counter . 
Macpherson never even knew what happened to him . 
The canvasser's right hand , which had been adjusted by his inventor for a high blow , had landed on the butt of Macpherson's ear and dropped him like a fowl . 
The gasping , terrified bull dog fled the scene , and the canvasser stood over his fallen foe , still intoning the virtues of his publication . 
The Genius and his mate watched this extraordinary drama through the window . 
The stimulant habitually consumed by the Ninemilers had induced in them a state of superlative Dutch courage , and they looked upon the whole affair as a wildly hilarious joke . 
By Gad ! he's done him , said the Genius , as Macpherson went down , done him in one hit . 
If he don't pay as a canvasser I'll take him to town and back him to fight Les Darcy . 
Look out for yourself don't you handle him ! he continued as the other approached the figure . 
As like as not , if you get fooling about him , he'll give you a clout that'll paralyse you . 
So saying , he guided the automaton out of the office and into the street , and walked straight into a policeman . 
By a common impulse the Genius and his mate ran rapidly away in different directions , leaving the figure alone with the officer . 
He was a fully ordained sergeant by name Aloysius O'Grady a squat , rosy little Irishman . 
Excited revellers , who were being carried by their mates , struggling violently , would break away to prance gaily along to the lock up with the sergeant . 
He resolved to decoy him into the lock up , and accosted him in a friendly , free and easy way . 
Good day t'ye , he said . 
most magnificent volume ever published , jewelled in fourteen holes , working on a ruby roller , and in a glass case , said the book canvasser . 
The likenesses of the historical personages are so natural that the book must not be left open on the table , or the mosquitoes will ruin it by stinging the portraits . 
It then dawned on the sergeant that this was no mere case of the horrors he was dealing with a book canvasser . 
Oi send the childer out to pick 'em up , and we have 'em at me place in barrow loads . 
Come along wid me now , and Oi'll make you nice and comfortable for the night , and he laid his hand on the outstretched palm of the figure . 
It was a fatal mistake . 
Then it started in a faltering and uneven , but dogged , way to walk towards the river . 
Immortial Saints ! gasped the sergeant , he's squazin' the livin' breath out uv me . 
Lave go now loike a dacent sowl , lave go . 
The sergeant struggled violently , and by so doing set some more springs in motion , and the figure's right arm made terrific swipes in the air . 
A following of boys and loafers had collected by this time . 
Blimey , how does he lash out ! was the remark they made . 
But they didn't interfere , notwithstanding the sergeant's frantic appeals , and things were going hard with him when his subordinate , Constable Dooley , appeared on the scene . 
Dooley , better known as The Wombat because of his sleepy disposition , was a man of great strength . 
He had originally been quartered at Sydney , and had fought many bitter battles with the notorious pushes of Bondi , Surry Hills and The Rocks . 
If they wouldn't come any other way , he would take them by the ankles and drag them after him . 
When the Wombat saw the sergeant in the grasp of an inebriate he bore down on the fray full of fight . 
I'll soon make him lave go , sergeant , he said , and he caught hold of the figure's right arm , to put on the police twist . 
Unfortunately , at that exact moment the sergeant touched one of the springs in the creature's breast . 
For a few minutes he lay as only dead men lie . 
Meanwhile , the Cast iron Canvasser , still holding the sergeant tightly clutched to its breast , was marching straight towards the river . 
Something had disorganised its vocal arrangements , and it was now positively shrieking in the sergeant's ear , and , as it yelled , the little man yelled still louder . 
Oi don't want yer accursed book . 
Lave go uv me , Oi say ! He beat with his fists on its face , and kicked its shins without avail . 
A short , staggering rush , a wild shriek from the officer , and they both toppled over the steep bank and went souse into the depths of Ninemile Creek . 
That was the end of the matter . 
The Genius and his mate returned to town hurriedly , and lay low , expecting to be indicted for murder . 
Anyone unacquainted with Ninemile might expect that a report of the occurrence would have reached the Sydney papers . 
As a matter of fact the storekeeper did think of writing one , but decided that it was too much trouble . 
It is my purpose here to exhibit the merino sheep in its true light . 
First let us give him his due . 
No one can accuse him of being a ferocious animal . 
No one could ever say that a sheep attacked him without provocation although there is an old bush story of a man who was discovered in the act of killing a neighbour's wether . 
I AM killing your sheep . 
I'll kill ANY man's sheep that bites ME ! But as a rule the merino refrains from using his teeth on people . 
He goes to work in another way . 
The truth is that he is a dangerous monomaniac , and his one idea is to ruin the man who owns him . 
With this object in view he will display a talent for getting into trouble and a genius for dying that are almost incredible . 
If they are in a river bed , with a howling flood coming down , they will stubbornly refuse to cross three inches of water to save themselves . 
Dogs may bark and men may shriek , but the sheep won't move . 
They will wait there till the flood comes and drowns them all , and then their corpses go down the river on their backs with their feet in the air . 
If sheep are put into a big paddock with water in three corners of it , they will resolutely crowd into the fourth , and die of thirst . 
At last one will gather courage , rush at the fancied obstacle , spring over it about six feet in the air , and dart away . 
The next does exactly the same , but jumps a bit higher . 
Then comes a rush of them following one another in wild bounds like antelopes , until one overjumps himself and alights on his head . 
This frightens those still in the yard , and they stop running out . 
Then the dogging and shrieking and hustling and tearing have to be gone through all over again . 
The delay throws out the man who is counting , and he forgets whether he left off at or . 
At last a dirt begrimed man jumps over the fence , unearths Bluey , and hauls him back by the ear . 
Bluey sets to work barking and heeling 'em up again , and pretends that he thoroughly enjoys it but all the while he is looking out for another chance to clear . 
And THIS time he won't be discovered in a hurry . 
There is a well authenticated story of a ship load of sheep that was lost because an old ram jumped overboard , and all the rest followed him . 
No doubt they did , and were proud to do it . 
For pure , sodden stupidity there is no animal like the merino . 
A lamb will follow a bullock dray , drawn by sixteen bullocks and driven by a profane person with a whip , under the impression that the aggregate monstrosity is his mother . 
A ewe never knows her own lamb by sight , and apparently has no sense of colour . 
The fiendish resemblance which one sheep bears to another is a great advantage to them in their struggles with their owners . 
It makes it more difficult to draft them out of a strange flock , and much harder to tell when any are missing . 
Concerning this resemblance between sheep , there is a story told of a fat old Murrumbidgee squatter who gave a big price for a famous ram called Sir Oliver . 
He took a friend out one day to inspect Sir Oliver , and overhauled that animal with a most impressive air of sheep wisdom . 
Look here , he said , at the fineness of the wool . 
See the serrations in each thread of it . 
See the density of it . 
Look at the way his legs and belly are clothed he's wool all over , that sheep . 
So he caught a ram and pointed out his defects . 
See here not half the serrations that other sheep had . 
No density of fleece to speak of . 
Bare bellied as a pig , compared with Sir Oliver . 
Not that this isn't a fair sheep , but he'd be dear at one tenth Sir Oliver's price . 
The cross bred will get through , under , or over any fence you like to put in front of him . 
He is never satisfied with his owner's run , but always thinks other people's runs must be better , so he sets off to explore . 
The merino relies on passive resistance for his success the cross bred carries the war into the enemy's camp , and becomes a living curse to his owner day and night . 
Once there was a man who was induced in a weak moment to buy twenty cross bred rams . 
From that hour the hand of Fate was upon him . 
They got into all the paddocks they shouldn't have been in . 
They scattered themselves over the run promiscuously . 
They visited the cultivation paddock and the vegetable garden at their own sweet will . 
And then they took to roving . 
In a body they visited the neighbouring stations , and played havoc with the sheep all over the district . 
The wretched owner was constantly getting fiery letters from his neighbours Your blanky rams are here . 
Come and take them away at once , and he would have to go nine or ten miles to drive them home . 
Any man who has tried to drive rams on a hot day knows what purgatory is . 
He was threatened every week with actions for trespass . 
He tried shutting them up in the sheep yard . 
They got out and went back to the garden . 
Then he gaoled them in the calf pen . 
Out again and into a growing crop . 
Then he set a boy to watch them but the boy went to sleep , and they were four miles away across country before he got on to their tracks . 
At length , when they happened accidentally to be at home on their owner's run , there came a big flood . 
His sheep , mostly merinos , had plenty of time to get on to high ground and save their lives but , of course , they didn't , and were almost all drowned . 
The owner sat on a rise above the waste of waters and watched the dead animals go by . 
He was a ruined man . 
But he said , Thank God , those cross bred rams are drowned , anyhow . 
Just as he spoke there was a splashing in the water , and the twenty rams solemnly swam ashore and ranged themselves in front of him . 
They were the only survivors of his twenty thousand sheep . 
He broke down , and was taken to an asylum for insane paupers . 
The cross breds had fulfilled their destiny . 
The cross bred drives his owner out of his mind , but the merino ruins his man with greater celerity . 
Nothing on earth will kill cross breds nothing will keep merinos alive . 
If they are put on dry salt bush country they die of drought . 
If they are put on damp , well watered country they die of worms , fluke , and foot rot . 
They die in the wet seasons and they die in the dry ones . 
The hard , resentful look on the faces of all bushmen comes from a long course of dealing with merino sheep . 
The merino dominates the bush , and gives to Australian literature its melancholy tinge , its despairing pathos . 
The poems about dying boundary riders , and lonely graves under mournful she oaks , are the direct outcome of the poet's too close association with that soul destroying animal . 
A man who could write anything cheerful after a day in the drafting yards would be a freak of nature . 
Here , under the blazing tropic sun , among flies and dust and loneliness , they struggle with the bullock from year's end to year's end . 
It is not to be supposed that they take up this kind of thing for fun . 
The man who worked cattle for sport would wheel bricks for amusement . 
At periodical intervals a boom in cattle country arises in the cities , and syndicates are formed to take up country and stock it . 
It looks so beautifully simple ON PAPER . 
You get your country , thousands of miles of it , for next to nothing . 
You buy your breeding herd for a ridiculously small sum , on long dated bills . 
Plant costs nothing , improvements nothing no woolshed is needed , there are no shearers to pay , and no carriage to market , for the bullock walks himself down to his doom . 
Granted that prices are low , still it is obvious that there must be huge profits in the business . 
So the cattle start away out to the country , where they are supposed to increase and multiply , and enrich their owners . 
Alas ! for such hopes . 
There is a curse on cattle . 
No one has ever been able to explain exactly how the deficit arises . 
Put the figures before the oldest and most experienced cattleman , and he will fail to show why they don't work out right . 
And yet they never do . 
It is not the fault of the cattle themselves . 
But , as a rule , cattle are not suicidal . 
The hand of Fate is against them . 
If a drought comes , they eat off the grass near the water and have to travel far out for a feed . 
Then they fall away and get weak , and when they come down to drink they get bogged in the muddy waterholes and die there . 
Or Providence sends the pleuro , and big strong beasts slink away by themselves , and stand under trees glaring savagely till death comes . 
Or else the tick attacks them , and soon a fine , strong beast becomes a miserable , shrunken , tottering wreck . 
Once cattle get really low in condition they are done for . 
Sheep can be shifted when their pasture fails , but you can't shift cattle . 
They die quicker on the roads than on the run . 
The only thing is to watch and pray for rain . 
It always comes after the cattle are dead . 
As for describing the animals themselves , it would take volumes . 
Sheep are all alike , but cattle are all different . 
Cattle on the road are unaccountable animals one cannot say for certain what they will do . 
In this respect they differ from sheep , whose movements can be predicted with absolute certainty . 
All the cussedness of the bovine race is centred in the cow . 
In Australia the most opprobious epithet one can apply to a man or other object is cow . 
In the whole range of a bullock driver's vocabulary there is no word that expresses his blistering scorn so well as cow . 
To an exaggerated feminine perversity the cow adds a fiendish ingenuity in making trouble . 
A quiet milking cow will plant her calf with such skill that ten stockmen cannot find him in a one mile paddock . 
While the search goes on she grazes unconcernedly , as if she never had a calf in her life . 
If by chance he be discovered , then one notices a curious thing . 
The very youngest calf , the merest staggering Bob two days old , will not move till the old lady gives him orders to do so . 
One may pull him about without getting a move out of him . 
While in his mother's company he seconds her efforts with great judgment . 
Then the guileless agriculturist , having penned him up , sets a dog on him , and his cries soon fetch the old cow full run to his assistance . 
Once in the yard she is roped , hauled into the bail , propped up to prevent her throwing herself down , and milked by sheer brute force . 
After a while she steadies down and will walk into the bail , knowing her turn and behaving like a respectable female . 
Cows and calves have no idea of sound or distance . 
It would stun a human being but the calf thinks it over for a moment , and then answers with a prolonged yell in the old cow's ear . 
So the dialogue goes on for hours without either party dropping dead . 
There is an element of danger in dealing with cattle that makes men smart and self reliant and independent . 
Men who deal with sheep get gloomy and morbid , and are for ever going on strike . 
Nobody ever heard of a stockman's strike . 
Sheepmen like to think that they know all about cattle , and could work them if they chose . 
A Queensland drover once took a big mob from the Gulf right down through New South Wales , selling various lots as he went . 
He had to deliver some to a small sheep man , near Braidwood , who was buying a few hundred cattle as a spec . 
By the time they arrived , the cattle had been on the road eight months , and were quiet as milkers . 
But the sheep man and his satellites came out , riding stable fed horses and brandishing twenty foot whips , all determined to sell their lives dearly . 
They galloped round the astonished cattle and spurred their horses and cracked their whips , till they roused the weary mob . 
Then they started to cut out the beasts they wanted . 
The horses rushed and pulled , and the whips maddened the cattle , and all was turmoil and confusion . 
The Queensland drovers looked on amazed , sitting their patient leg weary horses they had ridden almost continuously for eight months . 
These the head drover delivered to the buyer , simply remarking , Many's the time YOU never cut out cattle . 
A white steer is wanted that is right in the throng . 
The press divides and the white steer scuttles along the edge of the mob trying to force his way in again . 
Suddenly he and two or three others are momentarily eddied out to the outskirts of the mob , and in that second the stockman dashes his horse between them and the main body . 
The lumbering beasts rush hither and thither in a vain attempt to return to their comrades . 
Those not wanted are allowed to return , but the white steer finds , to his dismay , that wherever he turns that horse and man and dreaded whip are confronting him . 
He doubles and dodges and makes feints to charge , but the horse anticipates every movement and wheels quicker than the bullock . 
At last the white steer sees the outlying mob he is required to join , and trots off to them quite happy , while horse and rider return to cut out another . 
It is a pretty exhibition of skill and intelligence , doubly pleasant to watch because of the undoubted interest that the horses take in it . 
Big , stupid creatures that they are , cursed with highly strung nerves , and blessed with little sense , they are pathetically anxious to do such work as they can understand . 
A horse that is a crack camp horse in one man's hands may be a hopeless brute in the hands of another . 
White when he's wanted Buckalong was a big freehold of some , acres , belonging to an absentee syndicate , and therefore run in most niggardly style . 
There was a manager on pounds a year , Sandy M'Gregor to wit a hard headed old Scotchman known as four eyed M'Gregor , because he wore spectacles . 
For assistants , he had half a dozen of us jackaroos and colonial experiencers who got nothing a year , and earned it . 
Besides the manager and the jackaroos , there were a few boundary riders to prowl round the fences of the vast paddocks . 
This constituted the whole station staff . 
Buckalong was on one of the main routes by which stock were taken to market , or from the plains to the tablelands , and vice versa . 
Great mobs of travelling sheep constantly passed through the run , eating up the grass and vexing the soul of the manager . 
By law , sheep must travel six miles per day , and they must be kept to within half a mile of the road . 
Of course we kept all the grass near the road eaten bare , to discourage travellers from coming that way . 
This bred feuds , and bad language , and personal combats between us and the drovers , whom we looked upon as natural enemies . 
to catch a mob of bullocks in the horse paddock , and then off they went to Buckalong pound . 
According to him , a native born would sooner work a horse to death than work for a living any day . 
He hated any man who wanted to sell him a horse . 
M'Gregor simmered a while , and muttered something about the Sawbath day but at last he went out , and we filed after him to see the fun . 
The drover stood by the side of his horse , beneath the acacia trees in the yard . 
He had a big scar on his face , apparently the result of collision with a fence he looked thin and sickly and seemed poverty stricken enough to disarm hostility . 
Obviously , he was down on his luck . 
Had it not been for that indefinable self reliant look which drovers the Ishmaels of the bush always acquire , one might have taken him for a swagman . 
His horse was in much the same plight . 
He looked like a good journey horse , possibly something better . 
We gathered round while M'Gregor questioned the drover . 
The man was monosyllabic to a degree , as the real bushmen generally are . 
It is only the rowdy and the town bushy that are fluent of speech . 
Guid mornin' , said M'Gregor . 
Mornin' , boss , said the drover , shortly . 
Is this the horrse ye hae for sale ? Yes . 
Ay , and M'Gregor looked at the pony with a businesslike don't think much of him air , ran his hand lightly over the hard legs , and opened the passive creature's mouth . 
Then he turned to the drover . 
Ye seem a bit oot o' luck . 
What's been the matter ? Been sick with fever Queensland fever . 
Just come through from the North . 
Been out on the Diamantina last . 
I was there mysel' , said M'Gregor . 
Hae ye the fever on ye still ? Yes goin' home to get rid of it . 
A man can only get Queensland fever in a malarial district , but he can carry it with him wherever he goes . 
Gradually it wears itself out , often wearing its patient out at the same time . 
M'Gregor had been through the experience , and there was a slight change in his voice as he went on with his palaver . 
Whaur are ye makin' for the noo ? Monaro my people live in Monaro . 
Hoo will ye get to Monaro gin ye sell the horrse ? Coach and rail . 
Too sick to care about ridin' , said the drover , while a wan smile flitted over his yellow grey features . 
I've rode him far enough . 
I've rode that horse a thousand miles . 
I wouldn't sell him , only I'm a bit hard up . 
Sellin' him now to get the money to go home . 
Hoo auld is he ? Seven . 
Is he a guid horrse on a camp ? asked M'Gregor . 
No better camp horse in Queensland , said the drover . 
You can chuck the reins on his neck , an' he'll cut out a beast by himself . 
M'Gregor's action in this matter puzzled us . 
We spent our time crawling after sheep , and a camp horse would be about as much use to us as side pockets to a pig . 
We had expected Sandy to rush the fellow off the place at once , and we couldn't understand how it was that he took so much interest in him . 
Perhaps the fever racked drover and the old camp horse appealed to him in a way incomprehensible to us . 
We had never been on the Queensland cattle camps , nor shaken and shivered with the fever , nor lived the roving life of the overlanders . 
went out to the man who brought the old days back to him . 
And the old man laughed contemptuously , while we felt humbled in the sight of the man from far back . 
An' what'll ye be wantin' for him ? asked M'Gregor . 
Reckon he's worth fifteen notes , said the drover . 
Our estimates had varied between thirty shillings and a fiver . 
This was agreed to , and the drover was sent off to get his meals in the hut before leaving by the coach . 
The mon is verra harrd up , an' it's a sair thing that Queensland fever , was the only remark M'Gregor made . 
But we knew now that there was a soft spot in his heart somewhere . 
Next morning the drover got a crisp looking cheque . 
He ain't much to look at , said the drover , speaking slowly and awkwardly , but he's white when he's wanted . 
And just before the coach rattled off , the man of few words leant down from the box and nodded impressively , and repeated , Yes , he's white when he's wanted . 
We didn't trouble to give the new horse a name . 
Station horses are generally called after the man from whom they are bought . 
Tom Devine , The Regan mare , Black M'Carthy and Bay M'Carthy were among the appellations of our horses at that time . 
As we didn't know the drover's name , we simply called the animal The new horse until a still newer horse was one day acquired . 
The ane he said was white when he's wanted . 
White when he's wanted didn't seem much of an acquisition . 
He was sent out to do slavery for Greenhide Billy , a boundary rider who plumed himself on having once been a cattle man . 
After a week's experience of White , Billy came in to the homestead disgusted . 
The boss must have been off his head to give fifteen notes for such a cow . 
Ye're a cattleman so ye say dommed if ah believe it . 
Ah believe ye're a dairy farmin' body frae Illawarra . 
Ye ken neither horrse nor cattle . 
For a while he was a sort of pariah . 
He used to yard the horses , fetch up the cows , and hunt travelling sheep through the run . 
Yet there is no sport in the world to be mentioned in the same volume as running horses , and we were very keen on it . 
The mares and foals dropped out , the colts and young stock pulled up dead beat , and only the seasoned veterans were left . 
Such a capture had not fallen to our lot for many a day , and the fame of White when he's wanted was speedily noised abroad . 
He was always fit for work , always hungry , always ready to lie down and roll , and always lazy . 
But when he heard the rush of the brumbies' feet in the scrub he became frantic with excitement . 
He could race over the roughest ground without misplacing a hoof or altering his stride , and he could sail over fallen timber and across gullies like a kangaroo . 
Nearly every Sunday we were after the brumbies , until they got as lean as greyhounds and as cunning as policemen . 
And then one day he disappeared from the paddock , and we never saw him again . 
We offered good rewards and set some of the right sort to work , but heard nothing of him for about a year . 
Then the surveyor's assistant turned up again , after a trip to the interior . 
He told us the usual string of back block lies , and wound up by saying that out on the very fringe of settlement he had met an old acquaintance . 
Who was that ? Why , that little bay horse that I rode after the brumbies that time . 
The one you called White when he's wanted . 
The deuce you did ! Are you sure ? Who had him ? Sure ! I'd swear to him anywhere . 
A little drover fellow had him . 
A little fellow , with a big scar across his forehead . 
Came from Monaro way somewhere . 
He said he bought the horse from you for fifteen notes . 
The Downfall of Mulligan's The sporting men of Mulligan's were an exceedingly knowing lot in fact , they had obtained the name amongst their neighbours of being a little bit too knowing . 
They had taken down the adjoining town in a variety of ways . 
They were always winning maiden plates with horses which were shrewdly suspected to be old and well tried performers in disguise . 
They knew a great many things never learnt at Sunday school . 
They were experts at cards and dice . 
They would go to immense trouble to work off any small swindle in the sporting line . 
There were races at Sydney one Christmas , and a select band of the Mulligan sportsmen were going down to them . 
His Reverence was hot and perspiring , and for a few minutes mopped himself with a handkerchief , while the silence was unbroken except by the rattle of the train . 
After a while one of the Mulligan fraternity got out a pack of cards and proposed a game to while away the time . 
He agreed to play , and , just as a matter of courtesy , they asked the priest whether he would take a hand . 
What game d'ye play ? he asked , in a melodious brogue . 
They explained that any game was equally acceptable to them , but they thought it right to add that they generally played for money . 
Sure an' it don't matter for wanst in a way , said he Oi'll take a hand bedad Oi'm only going about fifty miles , so Oi can't lose a fortune . 
Nothing sensational resulted from the first few deals , and the priest began to ask questions . 
Be ye going to the races ? They said they were . 
Ah ! and Oi suppose ye'll be betting wid thim bookmakers betting on the horses , will yez ? They do be terrible knowing men , thim bookmakers , they tell me . 
I wouldn't bet much if Oi was ye , he said , with an affable smile . 
If ye go bettin' ye will be took in wid thim bookmakers . 
The boys listened with a bored air and reckoned that by the time they parted the priest would have learnt that they were well able to look after themselves . 
They went steadily on with the game , and the priest and the young squatter won slightly this was part of the plan to lead them on to plunge . 
They neared the station where the priest was to get out . 
He had won rather more than they liked , so the signal was passed round to put the cross on . 
Poker is a game at which a man need not risk much unless he feels inclined , and on this deal the priest stood out . 
Consequently , when they drew up at his station he was still a few pounds in . 
Bedad , he said , Oi don't loike goin' away wid yer money . 
Oi'll go on to the next station so as ye can have revinge . 
Then he sat down again , and play went on in earnest . 
The man of religion seemed to have the Devil's own luck . 
When he was dealt a good hand he invariably backed it well , and if he had a bad one he would not risk anything . 
The sports grew painfully anxious as they saw him getting further and further ahead of them , prattling away all the time like a big schoolboy . 
The squatter was the biggest loser so far , but the priest was the only winner . 
All the others were out of pocket . 
His reverence played with great dash , and seemed to know a lot about the game , so that on arrival at the second station he was a good round sum in pocket . 
He rose to leave them with many expressions of regret , and laughingly promised full revenge next time . 
Just as he was opening the carriage door , one of the Mulligan fraternity said in a stage whisper He's a blanky sink pocket . 
If he can come this far , let him come on to Sydney and play for double the stakes . 
Like a shot the priest turned on him . 
Bedad , an' if THAT'S yer talk , Oi'll play ye fer double stakes from here to the other side of glory . 
The others felt that a crisis was at hand and settled down to play in a dead silence . 
By a dexterous manipulation of the cards he dealt himself four kings , almost the best hand at poker . 
Then he began with assumed hesitation to bet on his hand , raising the stake little by little . 
Sure ye're trying to bluff , so ye are ! said the priest , and immediately raised it . 
The others had dropped out of the game and watched with painful interest the stake grow and grow . 
The Mulligan fraternity felt a cheerful certainty that the old man had made things safe , and regarded themselves as mercifully delivered from an unpleasant situation . 
The priest went on doggedly raising the stake in response to his antagonist's challenges until it had attained huge dimensions . 
Sure that's high enough , said he , putting into the pool sufficient to entitle him to see his opponent's hand . 
The old man with great gravity laid down his four kings , whereat the Mulligan boys let a big sigh of relief escape them . 
Then the priest laid down four aces and scooped the pool . 
The sportsmen of Mulligan's never quite knew how they got out to Randwick . 
They borrowed a bit of money in Sydney , and found themselves in the saddling paddock in a half dazed condition , trying to realize what had happened to them . 
In the tumult of voices they heard one that sounded familiar . 
Soon suspicion grew into certainty , and they knew that it was the voice of Father Ryan . 
They walked to the fence and looked over . 
The Amateur Gardener The first step in amateur gardening is to sit down and consider what good you are going to get by it . 
We knew a man once who was a bookmaker by trade and a Leger bookmaker at that but had a passion for horses and flowers . 
Then he would keep splendid horses , and grow rare roses and show bench chrysanthemums . 
His landlord passing by would see the garden in a blaze of colour , and promise himself to raise the bookmaker's rent next quarter day . 
However , when the bookmaker took the knock , as he invariably did at least twice a year , it was his pleasing custom to move without giving notice . 
He would hitch two cart horses to the stables , and haul them right away at night . 
He had one garden that he shifted to nearly every suburb in Sydney and he always argued that the change of air was invaluable for chrysanthemums . 
Goats will also stray in from the street , and bite the young shoots off , selecting the most valuable plants with a discrimination that would do credit to a professional gardener . 
It is therefore useless to think of growing delicate or squeamish plants . 
Most amateur gardeners maintain a lifelong struggle against the devices of Nature but when the forces of man and the forces of Nature come into conflict Nature wins every time . 
It is to correct this tendency that this article is written . 
The greatest standby to the amateur gardener should undoubtedly be the blue flowered shrub known as plumbago . 
This homely but hardy plant will grow anywhere . 
It naturally prefers a good soil , and a sufficient rainfall , but if need be it will worry along without either . 
Fowls cannot scratch it up , and even the goat turns away dismayed from its hard featured branches . 
A plant like this should be encouraged but the misguided amateur gardener as a rule despises it . 
The plant known as the churchyard geranium is also one marked out by Providence for the amateur so is Cosmea , which comes up year after year where once planted . 
In creepers , bignonia and lantana will hold their own under difficulties perhaps as well as any that can be found . 
In trees the Port Jackson fig is a patriotic one to grow . 
It is a fine plant to provide exercise , as it sheds its leaves unsparingly , and requires the whole garden to be swept up every day . 
Your aim as a student of Nature should be to encourage the survival of the fittest . 
There is a grass called nut grass , and another called Parramatta grass , either of which holds its own against anything living or dead . 
The average gardening manual gives you recipes for destroying these . 
The spade is the first thing , but the average ironmonger will show you an unwieldy weapon only meant to be used by navvies . 
After digging for half an hour or so , get her to rub your back with any of the backache cures . 
From that moment you will have no further need for the spade . 
A barrow is about the only other thing needed anyhow , it is almost a necessity for wheeling cases of whisky up to the house . 
A rake is useful when your terrier dog has bailed up a cat , and will not attack it until the cat is made to run . 
Talking of terrier dogs , an acquaintance of ours has a dog that does all his gardening . 
The dog is a small elderly terrier with a failing memory . 
As soon as the terrier has planted a bone in the garden the owner slips over , digs it up and takes it away . 
This saves his master a lot of backache . 
The sensible amateur gardener , then , will not attempt to fight with Nature but will fall in with her views . 
What more pleasant than to get out of bed at . 
After the last goat has scaled your neighbour's fence , and only De Wet is left , your little dog discovers him . 
De Wet beats a hurried retreat , apparently at full speed , with the dog exactly one foot behind him in frantic pursuit . 
Hearing the scrimmage , your neighbour comes on to his verandah , and sees the chase going down the street . 
Ha ! that wretched old De Wet again ! he says . 
Then follows a frantic rush . 
The game fowls of your other neighbour come fluttering into your garden , and scratch and chuckle and fluff themselves under your plumbago bush but you don't worry . 
The performance he is going through doesn't disturb you . 
Why should it ? By following the directions in this article you have selected plants he cannot hurt . 
Thirsty Island Travellers approaching a bush township are sure to find some distance from the town a lonely public house waiting by the roadside to give them welcome . 
Island is the outlying pub of Australia . 
When the China and British India steamers arrive from the North the first place they come to is Thirsty Island , the sentinel at the gate of Torres Straits . 
Coco nut palms line the roads by the beach , and back of the town are the barracks and a fort nestling among the trees on the hillside . 
Thirsty Island is a nice place to look at . 
When a vessel makes fast the Thirsty Islanders come down to greet the new comers and give them welcome to Australia . 
The new chums are inclined to patronise these simple , outlying people . 
Poor new chums ! Little do they know the kind of people they are up against . 
The following description of a night at Thursday Island is taken from a new chum's note book Passed Proudfoot shoal and arrived at Thursday Island . 
Lot of men came aboard , all called Captain . 
They are all pearl fishers or pilots , not a bit like the bushmen I expected . 
When they came aboard they divided into parties . 
Some invaded the Captain's cabin others sat in the smoking room the rest crowded into the saloon . 
They talked to the passengers about the Boer War , and told us about pearls worth pounds that had been found lately . 
One captain pulled a handful of loose pearls out of a jar and handed them round in a casual way for us to look at . 
The stewards opened bottles and we all sat down for a drink and a smoke . 
I spoke to one captain an oldish man and he grinned amiably , but did not answer . 
Another captain leaned over to me and said , Don't take any notice of him , he's boozed all this week . 
Conversation and drink became general . 
The night was very hot and close , and some of the passengers seemed to be taking more than was good for them . 
A contagious thirst spread round the ship , and before long the stewards and firemen were at it . 
The saloon became an inferno of drink and sweat and tobacco smoke . 
Perfect strangers were talking to each other at the top of their voices . 
Young MacTavish , who is in a crack English regiment , asked the captain of a pearling lugger whether he didn't know Talbot de Cholmondeley in the Blues . 
The pearler said very likely he had met 'em , and no doubt he'd remember their faces if he saw them , but he never could remember names . 
Another passenger a Jew was trying to buy some pearls cheap from the captains , but the more the captains drank the less anxious they became to talk about pearls . 
The night wore on , and still the drinks circulated . 
One passenger gave his steward a sovereign as he was leaving the ship , and in half an hour the steward was carried to his berth in a fit alcoholic in its origin . 
Another steward was observed openly drinking the passengers' whisky . 
When accused , he didn't even attempt to defend himself the great Thursday Island thirst seemed to have communicated itself to everyone on board , and he simply HAD to drink . 
At last the Thursday Islanders departed , unsteadily , but still on their feet , leaving a demoralized ship behind them . 
They drink weird compounds horehound beer , known as lady dog , and things like that . 
About two in the morning they go home speechless , but still able to travel . 
It is very rarely that an Islander gets helplessly drunk , but strangers generally have to be put to bed . 
The Japanese on the island are a strong faction . 
They have a club of their own , and once gave a dinner to mark the death of one of their members . 
He was shrewdly suspected of having tried to drown another member by cutting his airpipe , so , when he died , the club celebrated the event . 
The Japanese are not looked upon with favor by the white islanders . 
They send their money to Japan thousands of pounds a year go through the little office in money orders and so they are not good for trade . 
They knife each other sometimes , and now and again have to be run in wholesale , but they are good for trade . 
The local lock up has a record of eighteen drunks run in in seven minutes . 
They weren't taken along in carriages and four , either they were mostly dragged along by the scruff of the neck . 
Billy Malkeela , the South Sea diver , summed up the Japanese question Seems to me dis Islan' soon b'long Japanee altogedder . 
One time pa lenty rickatta , all same Isle of Wight . 
All money go Japan ! An English new chum made his appearance there lately a most undefeated sportsman . 
He was put down in a diving dress in about eight feet of water , where he bubbled and struggled about in great style . 
Then he was hauled in by the life line . 
It was funny but not in the way they had intended . 
and no man knows what hospitality is till he has been a guest on a pearling schooner . 
They carry it to extremes sometimes . 
Some pearlers were out in a lugger , and were passing by one of these schooners . 
They determined not to go on board , as it was late , and they were in a hurry . 
The captain of the schooner went below , got his rifle and put two bullets through their foresail . 
Then they put the helm down and went aboard it was an invitation almost equivalent to a royal command . 
They felt heartily ashamed of themselves as they slunk up on deck , and the captain of the schooner eyed them reproachfully . 
I couldn't let you disgrace yourselves by passing my schooner , he said but if it ever happens again I'll fire at the deck . 
A man that would pass a schooner in broad daylight is better dead . 
There is a fort and garrison at Thirsty Island , but they are not needed . 
Dan Fitzgerald Explains The circus was having its afternoon siesta . 
Overhead the towering canvas tent spread like a giant mushroom on a network of stalks slanting beams , interlaced with guys and wire ropes . 
The big African apes had dropped the business of showing their teeth , and pretending that they wanted to tear the spectators' faces off . 
They were carefully and painstakingly trying to fix up a kind of rustic seat in the corner of their cage with a short piece of board , which they placed against the wall . 
This fell down every time they sat on it , and the whole adjustment had to be gone through again . 
It was a land of the Lotus eater In which it seemed always afternoon . 
What sort of horse do we buy for circus work ? Well , it depends what we want 'em for . 
A horse that has been pulled about and partly trained has to unlearn a lot before he is any use to us . 
The less he knows , the better it is . 
Then do you just try any sort of horse ? Any sort , so long as he is a good sort , but it depends on what he is wanted for . 
If we want a ring horse , he has to be a quiet sober going animal , not too well bred and fiery . 
A ring horse is one that just goes round the ring for the bareback riders and equestriennes to perform on . 
Are they hard to train ? Their work all depends on the men that ride them . 
In bareback riding there's a knack in jumping on the horse . 
If a man lands awkwardly and jars the horse's back , the horse will get out of step and flinch at each jump , and he isn't nearly so good to perform on . 
If there are any horses in the show with an ear for music , I haven't heard of them . 
They take a lot of notice of the ringmaster . 
Does it take them long to learn this work ? Not long a couple of months will teach a ring horse of course , some are better than others . 
First of all we teach them to come up to you , with the whip , like horsebreakers do . 
They soon get to know what you want but you can't break in horses on the move . 
The shifting and worry and noise and excitement put it all out of their heads . 
We have a fixed camp where we break them in . 
And a horse may know his work perfectly well when there is no one about , but bring him into the ring at night , and he is all abroad . 
Do you have to give them much whip ? Not much . 
If a horse doesn't know what you want him to do , it only ruins him to whip him . 
But once he does a thing a few times , and then won't do it , then you must whip him . 
What about trick horses ? A trick horse rolls a barrel , or lies down and goes to bed with the clown , or fires a pistol does any trick like that . 
Some small circuses make the same horses do both trick and ring work , but it isn't a good line . 
A horse is all the better to have only one line of business same as a man . 
How do you teach them tricks ? Oh , it takes a long time and a lot of hard work and great patience . 
Even to make a horse lie down when he's ordered takes a couple of months sometimes . 
Then a strange hand in the ring will flurry them , and if anything goes wrong , they get all abroad . 
A good active pony , with a bit of Arab blood in him , is the best for tricks . 
What's a school horse ? Ah , that's a line of business that isn't appreciated enough out here . 
On the Continent they think a lot of them . 
A school horse is one that is taught to do passaging , to change his feet at command , to move sideways and backwards in fact , to drill . 
Out here no one thinks much of it . 
But in Germany , where everyone goes through military riding schools , they do . 
The Germans are the best horse trainers in the world and the big German circus proprietors have men to do all their business for them , while they just attend to the horses . 
For school horses , you must have thoroughbreds , because their appearance is half their success . 
We had a New Zealand thoroughbred that had raced , and was turning out a splendid school horse , and he got burnt after costing a year's training . 
That's the luck of the game , you know . 
You keep at it year after year , and sometimes they die , and sometimes they get crippled it's all in the luck of the game . 
We passed out through the ghostly circus and the menagerie tent down to the stable tent . 
There , among a lot of others , a tranquil looking animal was munching some feed , while in front of him hung a placard , Tiger Horse . 
That's a new sort ! What is he , ring , trick , or school horse ? Well , he's a class by himself . 
I suppose you'd call him a ring horse . 
That's the horse that the tiger rides on . 
Did it take him long to learn that ? Well , it did not take this horse long but we tried eleven others before we could get one to stand it . 
They're just like men , all different . 
What one will stand another won't look at . 
Just like men no doubt most men have to carry tigers of various sorts through life to get a living . 
The Cat Most people think that the cat is an unintelligent animal , fond of ease , and caring little for anything but mice and milk . 
But a cat has really more character than most human beings , and gets a great deal more satisfaction out of life . 
Of all the animal kingdom , the cat has the most many sided character . 
He or she is an athlete , a musician , an acrobat , a Lothario , a grim fighter , a sport of the first water . 
But watch him as the shades of evening fall , and you see the cat as he really is . 
If there is a guest at table the cat is particularly civil to him , because the guest is likely to have the best of what is going . 
A cat isn't a fool not by a long way . 
When the family has finished tea , and gathers round the fire to enjoy the hours of indigestion , the cat slouches casually out of the room and disappears . 
Life , true life , now begins for him . 
No longer are they the hypocritical , meek creatures who an hour ago were cadging for fish and milk . 
They are now ruffling , swaggering blades with a Gascon sense of dignity . 
Their fights are grim and determined , and a cat will be clawed to ribbons before he will yield . 
Even young lady cats have this inestimable superiority over human beings , that they can work off jealousy , hatred , and malice in a sprawling , yelling combat on a flat roof . 
All cats fight , and all keep themselves more or less in training while they are young . 
Grimalkin decides to kill a canary in a neighbouring verandah . 
It is always levelled as a reproach against cats that they are more fond of their home than of the people in it . 
Naturally , the cat doesn't like to leave his country , the land where all his friends are , and where he knows every landmark . 
Life isn't long enough for that sort of thing . 
So , when the family moves , the cat , if allowed , will stay at the old house and attach himself to the new tenants . 
He will give them the privilege of boarding him while he enjoys life in his own way . 
He is not going to sacrifice his whole career for the doubtful reward which fidelity to his old master or mistress might bring . 
Behind them were the sheds for produce , and the machinery sections where steam threshers and earth scoops hummed and buzzed and thundered unnoticed . 
Suddenly a gate opened at the end of the show ring , and horses , cattle , dogs , vehicles , motor cars , and bicyclists crowded into the arena . 
This was the general parade , but it would have been better described as a general chaos . 
A showground bull always seems to be nursing a grievance . 
Mixed up with the stallions and bulls were dogs and donkeys . 
All this time stewards and committee men were wandering among the competitors , trying to find the animals for judgment . 
He had been a steeplechase rider and a trainer in his time . 
Long experience of that tricky animal , the horse , had made him reserved and slow to express an opinion . 
He mounted the table , and produced a note book . 
From the bar of the booth came a large , hairy , red faced man , whose face showed fatuous self complacency . 
He was a noted show judge because he refused , on principle , to listen to others' opinions or in those rare cases when he did , only to eject a scornful contradiction . 
The third judge was a local squatter , who was overwhelmed with a sense of his own importance . 
They seated themselves on a raised platform in the centre of the ring , and held consultation . 
The small dark man produced his note book . 
I always keep a scale of points , he said . 
Give 'em so many points for each fence . 
Then give 'em so many for make , shape , and quality , and so many for the way they jump . 
The fat man looked infinite contempt . 
I never want any scale of points , he said . 
One look at the 'orses is enough for me . 
A man that judges by points ain't a judge at all , I reckon . 
What do you think ? he went on , turning to the squatter . 
Do you go by points ? Never , said the squatter , firmly which , as he had never judged before in his life , was strictly true . 
Well , we'll each go our own way , said the little man . 
Number One , Conductor ! roared the ring steward in a voice like thunder , and a long legged grey horse came trotting into the ring and sidled about uneasily . 
His rider pointed him for the first jump , and went at it at a terrific pace . 
Nearing the fence the horse made a wild spring , and cleared it by feet , while the crowd yelled applause . 
Again the hurricane of cheers broke out . 
Don't he fly 'em , said one man , waving his hat . 
I like to see 'em feel their fences , said the fat man . 
I had a bay 'orse once , and he felt every fence he ever jumped shows their confidence . 
I think he'll feel that last one for a while , said the little dark man . 
What's this now ? Number Two , Homeward Bound ! An old , solid chestnut horse came out and cantered up to each jump , clearing them coolly and methodically . 
on the cuff of his shirt . 
The horse raced up to the fence , and stopped dead , amid the jeers of the crowd . 
The rider let daylight into him with his spurs , and rushed him at it again . 
This time he got over . 
Round he went , clouting some fences with his front legs , others with his hind legs . 
The crowd jeered , but the fat man , from a sheer spirit of opposition , said That would be a good horse if he was rode better . 
And the squatter remarked Yes , he belongs to a young feller just near me . 
I've seen him jump splendidly out in the bush , over brush fences . 
The little dark man said nothing , but made a note in his book . 
Number Twelve , Gaslight ! Now , you'll see a horse , said the fat man . 
Now , said the fat man , that's a 'unter , that is . 
The little man did not reply , but made the usual scrawl in his book , while the squatter hastened to agree with the fat man . 
I like to see a bit of pace myself , he ventured . 
The fat man sat on him heavily . 
You don't call that pace , do you ? he said . 
He was going dead slow . 
Various other competitors did their turn round the ring , some propping and bucking over the jumps , others rushing and tearing at their fences not one jumped as a hunter should . 
Some got themselves into difficulties by changing feet or misjudging the distance , and were loudly applauded by the crowd for cleverness in getting themselves out of the difficulties they had themselves created . 
A couple of rounds narrowed the competitors down to a few , and the task of deciding was entered on . 
The way I bring it out is that Homeward Bound is the best , with Gaslight second . 
Homeward Bound ! said the fat man . 
Why , the pace he went wouldn't head a duck . 
He didn't go as fast as a Chinaman could trot with two baskets of stones . 
I want to have three of 'em in to have another look at 'em . 
Here he looked surreptitiously at his cuff , saw a note No. II . 
, mistook it for Number Eleven , and said I want Number Eleven to go another round . 
The leggy , weedy chestnut , with the terrified amateur up , came sidling and snorting out into the ring . 
The fat man looked at him with scorn . 
What is that fiddle headed brute doing in the ring ? he said . 
Why , said the ring steward , you said you wanted him . 
Well , said the fat man , if I said I wanted him I do want him . 
Let him go the round . 
The terrified amateur went at his fences with the rashness of despair , and narrowly escaped being clouted off on two occasions . 
This put the fat man in a quandary . 
From sheer contrariness he said that Number Eleven would be all right if he were rode better , and the squatter agreed . 
The little man was overruled , and the prizes went Gaslight , first Spite , second Homeward Bound , third . 
The crowd hooted loudly as Spite's rider came round with the second ribbon , and small boys suggested to the fat judge in shrill tones that he ought to boil his head . 
This silenced criticism , and everyone adjourned to have a drink . 
Over the flowing bowl the fat man said You see , I don't believe in this nonsense about points . 
I can judge 'em without that . 
Twenty dissatisfied competitors vowed they would never bring another horse there in their lives . 
Gaslight's owner said Blimey , I knew it would be all right with old Billy judging . 
The Dog The dog is a member of society who likes to have his day's work , and who does it more conscientiously than most human beings . 
A dog without work is like a man without work , a nuisance to himself and everybody else . 
People who live about town , and keep a dog to give the children hydatids and to keep the neighbours awake at night , imagine that the animal is fulfilling his destiny . 
The old theory that animals have only instinct , not reason , to guide them , is knocked endways by the dog . 
A dog can reason as well as a human being on some subjects , and better on others , and the best reasoning dog of all is the sheep dog . 
The sheep dog is a professional artist with a pride in his business . 
Watch any drover's dogs bringing sheep into the yards . 
Don't you see this is my busy day ? Sheep dogs are followers of Thomas Carlyle . 
They hold that the only happiness for a dog in this life is to find his work and to do it . 
The idle , dilettante' , non working , aristocratic dog they have no use for . 
The training of a sheep dog for his profession begins at a very early age . 
The first thing is to take him out with his mother and let him see her working . 
He blunders lightheartedly , frisking along in front of the horse , and his owner tries to ride over him , and generally succeeds . 
He has had his first lesson to keep behind the horse until he is wanted . 
By degrees , slowly , like any other professional , he learns his business . 
It looks as if the acquired knowledge of generations were transmitted from dog to dog . 
The puppy , descended from a race of sheep dogs , starts with all his faculties directed towards the working of sheep he is half educated as soon as he is born . 
He can no more help working sheep than a born musician can help being musical , or a Hebrew can help gathering in shekels . 
It is bred in him . 
How does he learn to do that ? He didn't learn it at all . 
The knowledge was born with him . 
When the dog has been educated , or has educated himself , he enjoys his work but very few dogs like work in the yards . 
Watching their opportunity , they silently steal over the fence , and hide in any cool place they can find . 
He is a champion hypocrite , is the dog . 
Dogs , like horses , have very keen intuition . 
They know when the men around them are frightened , though they may not know the cause . 
In a great Queensland strike , when the shearers attacked and burnt Dagworth shed , some rifle volleys were exchanged . 
The air was full of human electricity , each man giving out waves of fear and excitement . 
Mark now the effect it had on the dogs . 
There wasn't a dog about the shed next day after the fight . 
The noise of the rifles had not frightened them , because they were well accustomed to that . 
The same thing happened constantly with horses in the South African War . 
A loose horse would feed contentedly while our men were firing , but when our troops were being fired at the horses became uneasy , and the loose ones would trot away . 
The excitement of the men communicated itself to them . 
Dogs have an amazing sense of responsibility . 
Sometimes , when there are sheep to be worked , an old slut who has young puppies may be greatly exercised in her mind whether she should go out or not . 
Hesitatingly , with many a look behind her , she trots out after the horses and the other dogs . 
An impassioned appeal from the head boundary rider , Go back home , will yer ! is treated with the contempt it deserves . 
She goes out to the yards , works , perhaps half the day , and then slips quietly under the fences and trots off home , contented . 
The Dog as a Sportsman The sheep dog and the cattle dog are the workmen of the animal kingdom sporting and fighting dogs are the professionals and artists . 
A house dog or a working dog will only work for his master a professional or artistic dog will work for anybody , so long as he is treated like an artist . 
The musician's art is sacred to him , and that is the case with the dog Art before everything . 
He throws his whole soul into his work , questing carefully over the cold scent , feathering eagerly when the bird is close , and at last drawing up like a statue . 
Not Paganini himself ever lost himself in his art more thoroughly than does humble Spot or Ponto . 
It is not amusement and not a mere duty to him it is a sacred gift , which he is bound to exercise . 
Humanity , instead of going to the ant for wisdom , should certainly go to the dog . 
Sporting dogs are like other artists , in that they are apt to get careless of everything except their vocation . 
They are similarly quite unreliable in their affections . 
They are not good watch dogs , and take little interest in chasing cats . 
They look on a little dog that catches rats much as a great musician looks on a cricketer it's clever , but it isn't Art . 
Hunting and fighting dogs are the gladiators of the animal world . 
A fox hound or a kangaroo dog is always of the same opinion as Mr. Jorrocks All time is wasted what isn't spent in 'untin' . 
A greyhound will start out in the morning with three lame legs , but as soon as he sees a hare start he MUST go . 
He utterly forgets his sorrows in the excitement , just as a rowing man , all over boils and blisters , will pull a desperate race without feeling any pain . 
Such dogs are not easily excited by anything but a chase , and a burglar might come and rob the house and murder the inmates without arousing any excitement among them . 
Guarding a house is not their pidgin as the Chinese say . 
That is one great reason for the success of the dog at whatever branch of his tribe's work he goes in for he is so thorough . 
Dogs who are forced to combine half a dozen professions never make a success at anything . 
One dog one billet is their motto . 
The most earnest and thorough of all the dog tribe is the fighting dog . 
His intense self respect , his horror of brawling , his cool determination , make him a pattern to humanity . 
It is simply their strong self respect and stubborn pride which will not let them give in . 
The greyhound snaps at his opponent and then runs for his life , but the fighting dog stands to it till death . 
After a few rounds he knows he is overmatched , but there is something at the back of his brain that will not let him cave in . 
These men are to be found in every class of life . 
Many of the gamest of the game are mere gutter bred boys who will continue to fight long after they have endured enough punishment to entitle them to quit . 
It is grit , pluck , vim , nerve force call it what you like , and there is no created thing that has more of it than the dog . 
The blood lust is a dog phase that has never been quite understood . 
Every station owner knows that sometimes the house dogs are liable to take a sudden fit of sheep killing . 
Any kind of dog will do it , from the collie downward . 
Sometimes dogs from different homesteads meet in the paddocks , having apparently arranged the whole affair beforehand . 
They are very artful about it , too . 
Many and many a sheep owner has gone out with a gun and shot his neighbour's dogs for killing sheep which his own wicked , innocent looking dogs had slain . 
Concerning a Steeplechase Rider Of all the ways in which men get a living there is none so hard and so precarious as that of steeplechase riding in Australia . 
In Australia the men have to go at racing speed , on very hard ground , over the most rigid and uncompromising obstacles ironbark rails clamped into solid posts with bands of iron . 
No wonder they are always coming to grief , and are always in and out of hospital in splints and bandages . 
Sometimes one reads that a horse has fallen and the rider has escaped with a severe shaking . 
But the steeplechase rider has to be out and about again , riding exercise every morning , and schooling all sorts of cantankerous brutes over the fences . 
These men take their lives in their hands and look at grim death between their horses' ears every time they race or school . 
If any theatre gave a show at which men and horses were habitually crippled or killed in full sight of the audience , the manager would be put on his trial for manslaughter . 
Our race tracks use up their yearly average of horses and men without attracting remark . 
One would suppose that the risk being so great the profits were enormous but they are not . 
And they don't need to keep at it very long . 
After a few good shakings they begin to take a nip or two to put heart into them before they go out , and after a while they have to increase the dose . 
At last they cannot ride at all without a regular cargo of alcohol on board , and are either half muzzy or shaky according as they have taken too much or too little . 
Then the game becomes suicidal it is an axiom that as soon as a man begins to funk he begins to fall . 
These remarks serve to introduce one of the fraternity who may be considered as typical of all . 
He left the station to go with cattle on the road , and having picked up a horse that showed pace , amused himself by jumping over fences . 
In Sydney he did very well he got a name as a fearless and clever rider , and was offered several mounts on fine animals . 
So he pitched his camp in Sydney , and became a fully enrolled member of the worst profession in the world . 
I had known him in the old days on the road , and when I met him on the course one day I enquired how he liked the new life . 
Well , it's a livin' , he said , but it's no great shakes . 
They don't give steeplechase riders a chance in Sydney . 
There's very few races , and the big sweepstakes keep horses out of the game . 
Do you get a fair share of the riding ? I asked . 
Oh , yes I get as much as anybody . 
Some of these days I'll take hold of a horse when they don't expect it . 
I smiled as I thought there was probably a sorry day in store for some backer when the jockey took hold unexpectedly . 
But when a horse is favourite and the public are backing him it isn't right to take hold of him then . 
I would not do it . 
This was his whole code of morals not to pull a favourite and he felt himself very superior to the scoundrel who would pull favourites or outsiders indiscriminately . 
What do you get for riding ? I asked him . 
They promise us all sorts of money if we win , but they don't pay if we lose . 
I only got two pounds for that last steeplechase . 
Two pounds ! I made a rapid calculation . 
He had ridden over eighteen fences for two pounds had chanced his life eighteen times at less than half a crown a time . 
Good Heavens ! I said , that's a poor game . 
Wouldn't you be better back on the station ? Oh , I don't know sometimes we get laid a bit to nothing , and do well out of a race . 
And then , you know , a steeplechase rider is somebody not like an ordinary fellow that is just working . 
I realised that I was an ordinary fellow who was just working , and felt small accordingly . 
I'm just off to weigh now , he said I'm riding Contractor , and he'll run well , but he always seems to fall at those logs . 
Still , I ought to have luck to day . 
I met a hearse as I was coming out . 
I'll get him over the fences , somehow . 
Do you think it lucky , then , to meet a hearse ? Oh , yes , he said , if you MEET it . 
You mustn't overtake it that's unlucky . 
So is a cross eyed man unlucky . 
Cross eyed men ought to be kept off racecourses . 
He reappeared clad in his racing rig , and we set off to see the horse saddled . 
We found the owner in a great state of excitement . 
My friend insisted on being paid two pounds before he would mount , and the owner nearly had a fit in his efforts to persuade him to ride on credit . 
At last a backer of the horse agreed to pay pounds s . 
, win or lose , and the rider was to get pounds out of the prize if he won . 
He came at the log fence full of running , and it looked certain that he would get over . 
A crowd clustered round and hid horse and rider from view , and I ran down to the casualty room to meet him when the ambulance came in . 
There was no hope from the first . 
My poor friend , who had so often faced Death for two pounds , lay very still awhile . 
Then he began to talk , wandering in his mind , Where are the cattle ? his mind evidently going back to the old days on the road . 
Then , quickly , Look out there give me room ! and again Five and twenty pounds , Mary , and a sure thing if he don't fall at the logs . 
Mary was sobbing beside the bed , cursing the fence and the money that had brought him to grief . 
Victor Second We were training two horses for the Buckatowndown races an old grey warrior called Tricolor better known to the station boys as The Trickler and a mare for the hack race . 
So the boy gave him a twicer on his own responsibility . 
When we found out about it we gave the boy a twicer with the strap , and he left and took out a summons against us . 
When the horses were galloping in the morning the kangaroo dog , Victor , nearly always went down to the course to run round with them . 
When we were starting for the meeting , someone said we had better tie up Victor or he would be getting stolen at the races . 
We called and whistled , but he had made himself scarce , so we started and forgot all about him . 
Red hot day , everything dusty , everybody drunk and blasphemous . 
All the betting at Buckatowndown was double event you had to win the money first , and fight the man for it afterwards . 
Every horse , as he did his preliminary gallop , had a string of dogs after him , and the clerk of the course came full cry after the dogs with a whip . 
By and by the horses strung across to the start at the far side of the course . 
They fiddled about for a bit then down went the flag and they came sweeping along all bunched up together , one holding a nice position on the inside . 
All of a sudden we heard a wild chorus of imprecations Look at that dog ! Victor had chipped in with the racehorses , and was running right in front of the field . 
It looked a guinea to a gooseberry that some of them would fall on him . 
The owners danced and swore . 
We were fairly in it and no mistake . 
As the field came past the stand the first time we could hear the riders swearing at our dog , and a wild yell of execration arose from the public . 
He had got right among the ruck by this time , and was racing alongside his friend The Trickler , thoroughly enjoying himself . 
The horses were all at the whip as they turned into the straight , and then The Trickler and the publican's mare singled out . 
Just as they settled down to finish Victor dashed up on the inside , and passed the post at old Trickler's girths . 
The populace immediately went for him with stones , bottles , and other missiles , and he had to scratch gravel to save his life . 
But imagine the amazement of the other owners when the judge placed Trickler first , Victor second , and the publican's mare third ! The publican tried to argue it out with him . 
He said you couldn't place a kangaroo dog second in a horse race . 
business what he placed , and that those who interfered with him would be sorry for it . 
opinion that the publican's mare was no rotten good , and that she was the right sort of mare for a poor man to own , because she would keep him poor . 
Then the publican called the judge a cow . 
The judge was willing a rip , tear , and chew fight ensued , which lasted some time . 
Fifteen protests were lodged against our win , but we didn't worry about that we had laid the stewards a bit to nothing . 
We didn't wait for the hack race . 
We folded our tents like the Arab and stole away . 
But it remains on the annals of Buckatowndown how a kangaroo dog ran second for the Town Plate . 
Concerning a Dog fight Dog fighting as a sport is not much in vogue now a days . 
To begin with it is illegal . 
Not that THAT matters much , for Sunday drinking is also illegal . 
But dog fighting is one of the cruel sports which the community has decided to put down with all the force of public opinion . 
The grey dawn was just breaking over Botany when we got to the meeting place . 
Away to the East the stars were paling in the faint flush of coming dawn , and over the sandhills came the boom of breakers . 
It was Sunday morning , and all the respectable , non dog fighting population of that odoriferous suburb were sleeping their heavy , Sunday morning sleep . 
Some few people , however , were astir . 
In the dim light hurried pedestrians plodded along the heavy road towards the sandhills . 
These were dog fighters who had got the office , and knew exactly where the match was to take place . 
They said the police would not interfere with them and they did not seem a nice crowd to interfere with . 
One dog was on the ground when we arrived , having come out in a hansom cab with his trainer . 
He was a white bull terrier , weighing about forty pounds , trained to the hour , with the muscles standing out all over him . 
He knew as well as any human being that there was sport afoot , and looked about eagerly and wickedly to see what he could get his teeth into . 
Soon a messenger came running up to know whether they meant to sit in the cab till the police came the other dog , he said , had arrived and all was ready . 
About a hundred people were at the ringside , and in the far corner , in the arms of his trainer , was the other dog a brindle . 
It was wonderful to see the two dogs when they caught sight of each other . 
The white dog came up to the ring straining at his leash , nearly dragging his trainer off his feet in his efforts to get at the enemy . 
At intervals he emitted a hoarse roar of challenge and defiance . 
The brindled dog never uttered a sound . 
He fixed his eyes on his adversary with a look of intense hunger , of absolute yearning for combat . 
He never for an instant shifted his unwinking gaze . 
He seemed like an animal who saw the hopes of years about to be realised . 
All details were carefully attended to , and all rules strictly observed . 
People may think a dog fight is a go as you please outbreak of lawlessness , but there are rules and regulations simple , but effective . 
There were two umpires , a referee , a timekeeper , and two seconds for each dog . 
The stakes were said to be ten pounds a side . 
After some talk , the dogs were carried to the centre of the ring by their seconds and put on the ground . 
Like a flash of lightning they dashed at each other , and the fight began . 
Nearly everyone has seen dogs fight it is their nature to , as Dr . 
a retriever and a collie , terminating as soon as one or other gets his ear bitten , gives a very faint idea of a real dog fight . 
But bull terriers are the gladiators of the canine race . 
Bred and trained to fight , carefully exercised and dieted for weeks beforehand , they come to the fray exulting in their strength and determined to win . 
Each is trained to fight for certain holds , a grip of the ear or the back of the neck being of very slight importance . 
The foot is a favourite hold , the throat is , of course , fashionable if they can get it . 
The white and the brindle sparred and wrestled and gripped and threw each other , fighting grimly , and disdaining to utter a sound . 
Their seconds dodged round them unceasingly , giving them encouragement and advice That's the style , Boxer fight for his foot Draw your foot back , old man , and so on . 
Now and again one dog got a grip of the other's foot and chewed savagely , and the spectators danced with excitement . 
Then came the ceremony of coming to scratch . 
If he failed to do this he would lose the fight . 
The white dog , meanwhile , was held in his corner waiting the attack . 
After the next round it was the white dog's turn to make the attack , and so on alternately . 
The animals need not fight a moment longer than they chose , as either dog could abandon the fight by failing to attack his enemy . 
The brindled dog's condition was not so good as the other's . 
He used to lie on his stomach between the rounds to rest himself , and several times it looked as if he would not cross the ring when his turn came . 
, on being called to cross the ring , only went half way across and stood there for a minute growling savagely . 
So he lost the fight . 
No doubt it was a brutal exhibition . 
But it was not cruel to the animals in the same sense that pigeon shooting or hare hunting is cruel . 
The dogs are born fighters , anxious and eager to fight , desiring nothing better . 
Whatever limited intelligence they have is all directed to this one consuming passion . 
They could stop when they liked , but anyone looking on could see that they gloried in the combat . 
Fighting is like breath to them they must have it . 
Nature has implanted in all animals a fighting instinct for the weeding out of the physically unfit , and these dogs have an extra share of that fighting instinct . 
His Masterpiece Greenhide Billy was a stockman on a Clarence River cattle station , and admittedly the biggest liar in the district . 
You orter say , How many thousand miles of country ? and then I'd understand you . 
Furthermore , according to Billy , they reckoned the rainfall in the Territory by yards , not inches . 
Billy had seen bigger droughts , better country , fatter cattle , faster horses , and cleverer dogs , than any other man on the Clarence River . 
We had a thousand head of store cattle , wild , mountain bred wretches that'd charge you on sight they were that handy with their horns they could skewer a mosquito . 
The rest of the men were in the camp fast asleep . 
It was brigalow , and you know what that is . 
You know how the brigalow grows , continued Bill saplings about as thick as a man's arm , and that close together a dog can't open his mouth to bark in 'em . 
Well , those cattle swept through that scrub , levelling it like as if it had been cleared for a railway line . 
They cleared a track a quarter of a mile wide , and smashed every stick , stump and sapling on it . 
You could hear them roaring and their hoofs thundering and the scrub smashing three or four miles off . 
This went on for about four miles . 
I got them all together in a patch of open country , and there I rode round and round 'em all night till daylight . 
And how I wasn't killed in the scrub , goodness only knows for a man couldn't ride in the daylight where I did in the dark . 
Billy paused in his narrative . 
He knew that some suggestions would be made , by way of compromise , to tone down the awful strength of the yarn , and he prepared himself accordingly . 
That was a wonderful bit of ridin' you done , Billy , said one of the men at last , admiringly . 
It's a wonder you wasn't killed . 
I suppose your clothes was pretty well tore off your back with the scrub ? Never touched a twig , said Billy . 
No , he wasn't a good un , said Billy decisively , he was the worst horse in the camp . 
Terrible awkward in the scrub he was , always fallin' down on his knees and his neck was so short you could sit far back on him and pull his ears . 
Here that interrogator retired hurt he gave Billy best . 
After a pause another took up the running . 
How did your mate get on , Billy ? I s'pose he was trampled to a mummy ! No , said Billy , he wasn't hurt a bit . 
I told you he was sleeping under the shelter of a log . 
The men waited a while and smoked , to let this statement soak well into their systems at last one rallied and had a final try . 
It's a wonder then , Billy , he said , that your mate didn't come after you and give you a hand to steady the cattle . 
Well , perhaps it was , said Billy , only that there was a bigger wonder than that at the back of it . 
What was that ? My mate never woke up all through it . 
Then the men knocked the ashes out of their pipes and went to bed . 
Done for the Double by Knott Gold Author of Flogged for a Furlong , Won by a Winker , etc . 
Chapter I. Wanted , a Pony Algernon de Montgomery Smythers was a merchant , wealthy beyond the dreams of avarice . 
He lived in comfort , not to say luxury . 
He had champagne for breakfast every morning , and his wife always slept with a pair of diamond earrings worth a small fortune in her ears . 
It is things like these that show true gentility . 
Though they had been married many years , the A. de M. Smythers had but one child a son and heir . 
No Christmas Day was allowed to pass by his doting parents without a gift to young Algy of some trifle worth about pounds , less the discount for cash . 
He had six play rooms , all filled with the most expensive toys and ingenious mechanical devices . 
He had a phonograph that could hail a ship out at the South Head , and a mechanical parrot that sang The Wearing of the Green . 
And still he was not happy . 
Sometimes , in spite of the vigilance of his four nurses and six under nurses , he would escape into the street , and run about with the little boys he met there . 
One day he gave one of them a sovereign for a locust . 
Certainly the locust was a double drummer , and could deafen the German Band when shaken up judiciously still , it was dear at a sovereign . 
What we have we do not value , and what other people have we are not strong enough to take from them . 
Christmas was approaching , and the question of Algy's Christmas present agitated the bosom of his parents . 
He already had nearly everything a child could want but one morning a bright inspiration struck Algy's father . 
Algy should have a pony . 
With Mr. Smythers to think was to act . 
He was not a man who believed in allowing grass to grow under his feet . 
His motto was , Up and be doing somebody . 
So he put an advertisement in the paper that same day . 
Wanted , a boy's pony . 
Must be guaranteed sound , strong , handsome , intelligent . 
Used to trains , trams , motors , fire engines , and motor 'buses . 
Any failure in above respects will disqualify . 
Certificate of birth required as well as references from last place . 
Blinky Bill's Sacrifice Down in a poverty stricken part of the city lived Blinky Bill , the horse dealer . 
His yard was surrounded by loose boxes made of any old timber , galvanized iron , sheets of roofing felt , and bark he could gather together . 
He kept all sorts of horses , except good sorts . 
There were harness horses , that wouldn't pull , and saddle horses that wouldn't go or , if they went , used to fall down . 
Nearly every animal about the place had something the matter with it . 
But periodical punts and occasional sales of horses would not keep the wolf from the door . 
It was like a ray of hope to him . 
At once there flashed upon him what he must do . 
He must make a great sacrifice he must sell Sausage II . 
was the greatest thirteen two pony of the day . 
Bill owed more to Sausage II . 
than he owed to his creditors . 
Brought up as a pet , the little animal was absolutely trustworthy . 
If he could find a fleet youth with a reputedly fast pony , Bill would offer to pull the little cuddy out of the sulky and run yer for a fiver . 
Sometimes he got beaten but as he never paid , that didn't matter . 
He did not believe in fighting but he would always sooner fight than pay . 
But all these devices had left him on his uppers in the end . 
He had no feed for his ponies , and no money to buy it the corn merchant had written his account off as bad , and had no desire to make it worse . 
Under the circumstances , what was he to do ? Sausage II . 
With heavy heart Bill led the pony down to be inspected . 
He saw Mr. Algernon de Montgomery Smythers , and measured him with his eye . 
He saw it would be no use to talk about racing to him , so he went on the other track . 
He told him that the pony belonged to a Methodist clergyman , who used to drive him in a shay . 
There are no shays in this country but Bill had read the word somewhere , and thought it sounded respectable . 
Yus , sir , he said , 'e goes lovely in a shay , and he was just starting off at twenty words a second , when he was stopped . 
Mr. A. de M. Smythers was brusque with his inferiors , and in this he made a mistake . 
Instead of listening to all that Blinky Bill said , and disbelieving it at his leisure , he stopped his talk . 
If you want to sell this pony , dry up , he said . 
I don't believe a word you say , and it only worries me to hear you lying . 
Fatal mistake ! You should never stop a horse dealer's talk . 
And call him anything you like , but never say you doubt his word . 
Both these things Mr. Smythers did and , though he bought the pony at a high price , yet the insult sank deep into the heart of Blinky Bill . 
As the capitalist departed leading the pony , Blinky Bill muttered to himself , Ha ! ha ! Little does he know that he is leading Sausage II . 
Let him beware how he gets alongside anything . 
That's all ! Blinky Bill may yet be revenged ! Chapter III . 
Exit Algy Christmas Day came . 
Algy's father gave orders to have the pony saddled , and led round to the front door . 
Algy's mother , a lady of forty summers , spent the morning superintending the dinner . 
Dinner was the principal event in the day with her . 
Alas , poor lady ! Everything she ate agreed with her , and she got fatter and fatter and fatter . 
The cold world never fully appreciates the struggles of those who are fat the efforts at starvation , the detested exercise , the long , miserable walks . 
Well has one of our greatest poets written , Take up the fat man's burden . 
When Algy saw the pony he shouted with delight , and in half a minute was riding him up and down the front drive . 
Then he asked for leave to go out in the street and that was where the trouble began . 
Up and down the street the pony cantered , as quietly as possible , till suddenly round a corner came two butcher boys racing their horses . 
With a clatter of clumsy hoofs they thundered past . 
In half a second there was a rattle , and a sort of comet like rush through the air . 
was off after them with his precious burden . 
The family dog tried to keep up with him , and succeeded in keeping ahead for about three strides . 
Then , like the wolves that pursued Mazeppa , he was left yelping far behind . 
Through Surry Hills and Redfern swept the flying pony , his rider lying out on his neck in Tod Sloan fashion , while the ground seemed to race beneath him . 
The events of the way were just one hopeless blur till the pony ran straight as an arrow into the yard of Blinky Bill . 
Running the Rule As soon as Blinky Bill recognised his visitor , he was delighted . 
You here , he said , Ha , ha , revenge is mine ! I'll get a tidy reward for taking you back , my young shaver . 
Then from the unresisting child he took a gold watch and three sovereigns . 
These he said he would put in a safe place for him , till he was going home again . 
He expected to get at least a tenner ready money for bringing Algy back , and hoped that he might be allowed to keep the watch into the bargain . 
With a light heart he went down town with Algy's watch and sovereigns in his pocket . 
He did not return till daylight , when he awoke his wife with bad news . 
Can't give the boy up , he said . 
I moskenoed his block and tackle , and blued it in the school . 
In other words , he had pawned the boy's watch and chain , and had lost the proceeds at pitch and toss . 
Nothing for it but to move , he said , and take the kid with us . 
The reader can imagine with what frantic anxiety the father and mother of little Algy sought for their lost one . 
They put the matter into the hands of the detective police , and waited for the Sherlock Holmeses of the force to get in their fine work . 
Years rolled on , and the mysterious disappearance of little Algy was yet unsolved . 
The horse dealer's revenge was complete . 
The boy's mother consulted a clairvoyant , who murmured mystically What went by the ponies , will come by the ponies and with that they had to remain satisfied . 
Chapter V. The Tricks of the Turf It was race day at Pulling'em Park , and the ponies were doing their usual performances . 
Among the throng the heaviest punter is a fat lady with diamond earrings . 
Does the reader recognize her ? It is little Algy's mother . 
She is one of the biggest bettors in the game . 
When women take to betting they are worse than men . 
But it is not for betting alone that she attends the meetings . 
She remembers the clairvoyant's What went by the ponies will come by the ponies . 
And always she searches in the ranks of the talent for her lost Algy . 
Here enters another of our dramatis personae Blinky Bill , prosperous once more . 
He has got a string of ponies and punters together . 
But the poor lady regularly punts on his ponies , and just as regularly is sent up in other words , loses her money . 
To day she has backed Blinky's pair , Nostrils and Tin Can , for the double . 
Nostrils has won his race , and Tin Can , if on the job , can win the second half of the double . 
Is he on the job ? The prices are lengthening against him , and the poor lady recognises that once more she is in the cart . 
Just then she meets Tin Can's jockey , Dodger Smith , face to face . 
A piercing scream rends the atmosphere , as if a thousand school children drew a thousand slate pencils down a thousand slates simultaneously . 
All right , mother , he said . 
Put all you can raise on Tin Can . 
I'm going to send Blinky up . 
It's time I had a cut on me own , anyway . 
The horses went to the post . 
Tons of money were at the last moment hurled on to Tin Can . 
The books , knowing he was dead , responded gamely , and wrote his name till their wrists gave out . 
Blinky Bill had a half share in all the bookies' winnings , so he chuckled grimly as he went to the rails to watch the race . 
The bookies thought that Blinky Bill had sold them , and they discarded him for ever . 
