The 'Memoir' is nearly all in italics , it was typed in by Judith Boss , Omaha , Nebraska . 
Otherwise Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
BY THE LATE JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE FANU , AUTHOR OF 'UNCLE SILAS . 
With a Memoir by ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES IN THREE VOLUMES . 
He afterwards served as a major of dragoons under Marlborough . 
At the beginning of the eighteenth century , William Le Fanu was the sole survivor of his family . 
Joseph Le Fanu , the eldest of the sons of this marriage who left issue , held the office of Clerk of the Coast in Ireland . 
Dean Thomas Philip Le Fanu , the eldest son of Joseph Le Fanu , became by his wife Emma , daughter of Dr . 
At fourteen , he produced a long Irish poem , which he never permitted anyone but his mother and brother to read . 
'Wise men have said Man's lot on earth Is grief and melancholy , But where thou art , there joyous mirth Proves all their wisdom folly . 
'If fate withhold thy love from me , All else in vain were given Heaven were imperfect wanting thee , And with thee earth were heaven . 
A few days after , he sent the following sequel 'My dear good Madam , You can't think how very sad I'm . 
And yet for all my pains to this moving epistle , I have got no answer , so I suppose I may go whistle . 
P. S. You'll allow I have the gift To write like the immortal Swift . 
But besides the poetical powers with which he was endowed , in common with the great Brinsley , Lady Dufferin , and the Hon . 
Stephen's by their wit and oratory . 
Amongst his compeers he was remarkable for his sudden fiery eloquence of attack , and ready and rapid powers of repartee when on his defence . 
'Write me an Irish Young Lochinvar , said his brother and in a few days he handed him 'Phaudrig Croohore' Anglice , 'Patrick Crohore . 
'Phaudrig Croohore' did not appear in print in the 'Dublin University Magazine' till , twelve years after its composition , when it was included amongst the Purcell Papers . 
To return to the year . 
Lover added some lines of his own to the poem , made Shamus emigrate to the States , and set up a public house . 
These added lines appeared in most of the published versions of the poem . 
But they are indifferent as verse , and certainly injure the dramatic effect of the poem . 
that it is a satisfaction to be able to reproduce the following letter upon the subject from Lover to William le Fanu 'Astor House , 'New York , U. S. America . 
Pray , my dear Le Fanu , inquire , and answer me here by next packet , or as soon as convenient . 
My success here has been quite triumphant . 
'Yours very truly , 'SAMUEL LOVER . 
We left Le Fanu as editor of the 'Warder . 
He afterwards purchased the 'Dublin Evening Packet , and much later the half proprietorship of the 'Dublin Evening Mail . 
Eleven or twelve years ago he also became the owner and editor of the 'Dublin University Magazine , in which his later as well as earlier Irish Stories appeared . 
He sold it about a year before his death in , having previously parted with the 'Warder' and his share in the 'Evening Mail . 
'So slumber in the human heart Wild echoes , that will sweetly thrill The words of kindness when the voice That uttered them for aye is still . 
Le Fanu's literary life may be divided into three distinct periods . 
This work , it is to be feared , is out of print , though there is now a cheap edition of 'Torlogh O'Brien , its immediate successor . 
We have considered Le Fanu as a ballad writer and poet . 
'Uncle Silas , the fairest as well as most familiar instance of this enthralling spell over his readers , is too well known a story to tell in detail . 
'He rose , tall and slight , a little stooped , all in black , with an ample black velvet tunic , which was rather a gown than a coat . 
It next was published as 'The Murdered Cousin' in a collection of Christmas stories , and finally developed into the three volume novel we have just noticed . 
There are about Le Fanu's narratives touches of nature which reconcile us to their always remarkable and often supernatural incidents . 
His characters are well conceived and distinctly drawn , and strong soliloquy and easy dialogue spring unaffectedly from their lips . 
Mr. Wilkie Collins , amongst our living novelists , best compares with Le Fanu . 
And this more leisurely , and certainly more classical , conduct of his stories makes us remember them more fully and faithfully than those of the author of the 'Woman in White . 
Mr. Collins is generally dramatic , and sometimes stagy , in his effects . 
, whom , in his writings , Le Fanu far more closely resembles than Mr. Collins , as a master of the darker and stronger emotions of human character . 
'He was a man , writes the author of a brief memoir of him in the 'Dublin University Magazine , 'who thought deeply , especially on religious subjects . 
And all who knew the man must feel how deeply deserved are these simple words of sincere regard for Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu . 
, and very much owing to the friendly and active assistance of his brother , Mr. William Le Fanu . 
THE GHOST AND THE BONE SETTER . 
It is one of many such for he was a curious and industrious collector of old local traditions a commodity in which the quarter where he resided mightily abounded . 
Innumerable instances of the same kind might be quoted , all tending to show how strongly among the peasantry of the south this superstition is entertained . 
However , I shall not detain the reader further by any prefatory remarks , but shall proceed to lay before him the following Extract from the MS . 
Papers of the late Rev . 
Francis Purcell , of Drumcoolagh . 
I tell the following particulars , as nearly as I can recollect them , in the words of the narrator . 
I proceed then , without further preface , to lay before you the wonderful adventures of Terry Neil . 
It was the ould steward , Lawrence Connor , that opened the door and he an' my father wor always very great . 
So says Larry We'll have a bit iv fire in the parlour , says he . 
An' why not in the hall ? says my father , for he knew that the squire's picthur was hung in the parlour . 
No fire can be lit in the hall , says Lawrence , for there's an ould jackdaw's nest in the chimney . 
Oh thin , says my father , let us stop in the kitchen , for it's very unproper for the likes iv me to be sittin' in the parlour , says he . 
Oh , Terry , that can't be , says Lawrence if we keep up the ould custom at all , we may as well keep it up properly , says he . 
Divil sweep the ould custom ! says my father to himself , do ye mind , for he didn't like to let Lawrence see that he was more afeard himself . 
Oh , very well , says he . 
I'm agreeable , Lawrence , says he and so down they both wint to the kitchen , until the fire id be lit in the parlour an' that same wasn't long doin' . 
, and go on , says he , with your story , for I'm listenin' , says he , shuttin' down his eyes . 
'Well , when my father seen spakin' was no use , he went on with his story . 
Oh thin , says my father , I'll not disturb the poor boy . 
'An' with that he beginned to walk up an' down , an' sayin' his prayers , until he worked himself into a sweat , savin' your presence . 
But it was all no good so he dthrunk about a pint of sperits , to compose his mind . 
Oh , says he , I wish to the Lord I was as asy in my mind as Larry there . 
'But there was one quare thing I forgot to tell you . 
But any way there's no use in bein' freckened now , says he for if I am to die , I may as well parspire undaunted , says he . 
Well , afther one great roarin' blast iv the wind , you'd think the walls iv the castle was just goin' to fall , quite an' clane , with the shakin' iv it . 
All av a suddint the storm stopt , as silent an' as quite as if it was a July evenin' . 
Well , your honour , when he tuk his turn out iv it , he settled it back mighty cute entirely , in the very same spot it was in before . 
An' he beginned to walk up an' down the room , lookin' as sober an' as solid as if he never done the likes at all . 
At any rate , he often heerd it from Father Murphy , an' he had a right to know what belonged to it he's dead since , God rest him . 
, an' it's proud I am to see your honour to night , says he . 
, an industhrious , sober man , an' an example of inebriety to the whole parish , says he . 
Thank your honour , says my father , gettin' courage , you were always a civil spoken gintleman , God rest your honour . 
, Rest my honour ? says he . 
Why , you ignorant spalpeen , says he , you mane , niggarly ignoramush , says he , where did you lave your manners ? says he . 
Oh , says my father , I'm only a foolish , ignorant poor man , says he . 
Listen to me now , Terence Neil , says he I was always a good masther to Pathrick Neil , your grandfather , says he . 
'Tis thrue for your honour , says my father . 
And , moreover , I think I was always a sober , riglar gintleman , says the squire . 
An' more's the pity , says my father . 
'My father found out afther , it was a favourite horse that fell undher him , afther leapin' the big fence that runs along by the glin . 
, I wouldn't have the impidence to do the likes to your honour , says he it's only to poor crathurs like myself I'd do it to , says he . 
None iv your blarney , says the squire . 
Pull , you divil ! says the squire . 
At your sarvice , your honour , says my father . 
'Pull harder , says the squire . 
'My father pulled like the divil . 
But , as cute as he was , he was out here , for he tuk the wrong one . 
Here's to your good health , Terence , says he an' now pull like the very divil . 
Down wint the squire over the table , an' bang wint my father half way across the room on his back , upon the flure . 
THE FORTUNES OF SIR ROBERT ARDAGH . 
Being a second Extract from the Papers of the late Father Purcell . 
'The earth hath bubbles as the water hath And these are of them . 
Their beauty is of that kind which makes the heart full with joy appealing to the affections with a power which belongs to nature only . 
There is one point at which the glen becomes extremely deep and narrow the sides descend to the depth of some hundred feet , and are so steep as to be nearly perpendicular . 
Sir Robert was , however , too well known as a man of honour , and of too high a family , to be suspected of any unfair dealing . 
It was said that he had accumulated vast sums of money and , as his bets were always successful , and always large , such must have been the case . 
Sir Robert's temper , so far from improving , became more than ever gloomy and morose . 
He sometimes carried the indulgence of his evil dispositions to such a height that it bordered upon insanity . 
During these paroxysms he would neither eat , drink , nor sleep . 
This doubt was justified by the circumstance that the hall entrance had been for nearly fifty years disused as a mode of ingress to the castle . 
The old man , therefore , listened attentively , to ascertain whether the first application should be followed by another . 
Time and damp had effectually corroded the iron chambers of the lock , so that it afforded little resistance . 
Such were the few particulars which the servant had time and light to observe . 
The stranger desired him to let his master know instantly that a friend had come , by appointment , to settle some business with him . 
On reaching the apartment which opened upon the oak chamber he was surprised to observe the door of that room partly open , and the room itself lit up . 
There was no sound of breathing all was silent , except the sharp ticking of a watch , which lay beside the lamp . 
I can't see him now try to get him away . 
You see I can't go down now I have not strength . 
O God ! O God ! let him come back in an hour it is not long to wait . 
He cannot lose anything by it nothing , nothing , nothing . 
Tell him that say anything to him . 
In his own words , he did not feel the stairs under him till he got to the hall . 
The figure stood exactly as he had left it . 
He delivered his master's message as coherently as he could . 
The stranger replied in a careless tone 'If Sir Robert will not come down to me , I must go up to him . 
The man returned , and to his surprise he found his master much more composed in manner . 
He rose feebly , and casting a last look of agony behind him , passed from the room to the lobby , where he signed to his attendant not to follow him . 
He saw his master reel , rather than walk down the stairs , clinging all the way to the banisters . 
He walked on , as if about to sink every moment from weakness . 
The figure advanced as if to meet him , and in passing struck down the light . 
The servant could see no more but there was a sound of struggling , renewed at intervals with silent but fearful energy . 
The struggle was renewed with an agony and intenseness of energy that betrayed itself in deep drawn gasps . 
All then became still as the grave , except when the moan of the night wind sighed up the wooded glen . 
Near the door , upon the ground , lay Sir Robert's sword belt , which had given way in the scuffle . 
, except by supposing report to have combined and blended together the fabulous histories of several distinct bearers of the family name . 
However this may be , I shall lay before the reader a distinct recital of the events from which the foregoing tradition arose . 
How he occupied himself , or what countries he visited during his absence , was never known , nor did he afterwards make any allusion or encourage any inquiries touching his foreign sojourn . 
He left Ireland in the year , being then just of age , and was not heard of until the year about eighteen years afterwards at which time he returned . 
His personal appearance was , as might have been expected , very greatly altered , more altered , indeed , than the time of his absence might have warranted one in supposing likely . 
Moreover , there could be nothing deceptive in these appearances , for he paid ready money for everything , from the most important purchase to the most trifling . 
It was thus that he became acquainted with the two beautiful Miss F ds , then among the brightest ornaments of the highest circle of Dublin fashion . 
The two young ladies differed strongly , alike in appearance and in character . 
The beauty of her features strikingly assorted in character with that of her figure and deportment . 
She was not , however , merely the tragedy queen . 
Her younger sister Mary was , as I believe not unfrequently occurs in the case of sisters , quite in the opposite style of beauty . 
She was light haired , had more colour , had nearly equal grace , with much more liveliness of manner . 
Her eyes were of that dark grey which poets so much admire full of expression and vivacity . 
She was altogether a very beautiful and animated girl though as unlike her sister as the presence of those two qualities would permit her to be . 
Their dissimilarity did not stop here it was deeper than mere appearance the character of their minds differed almost as strikingly as did their complexion . 
The fair haired beauty had a large proportion of that softness and pliability of temper which physiognomists assign as the characteristics of such complexions . 
She was much more the creature of impulse than of feeling , and consequently more the victim of extrinsic circumstances than was her sister . 
Emily , on the contrary , possessed considerable firmness and decision . 
She was less excitable , but when excited her feelings were more intense and enduring . 
She wanted much of the gaiety , but with it the volatility of her younger sister . 
Her opinions were adopted , and her friendships formed more reflectively , and her affections seemed to move , as it were , more slowly , but more determinedly . 
This firmness of character did not amount to anything masculine , and did not at all impair the feminine grace of her manners . 
At length , however , these doubts were determined he proposed for and was accepted by the dark beauty , Emily F d . 
Many years passed quietly away , during which Sir Robert's and Lady Ardagh's hopes of issue were several times disappointed . 
In the lapse of all this time there occurred but one event worth recording . 
Sir Robert had brought with him from abroad a valet , who sometimes professed himself to be French , at others Italian , and at others again German . 
This remark was accompanied by a chuckling laugh , the only approach to merriment which he was ever known to exhibit . 
A servant named Donovan was the first to answer it he threw on his clothes , and hurried to the room . 
As he entered , he heard Sir Robert's voice exclaiming loudly 'Wait without , do not come in yet but the prohibition came too late . 
Sir Robert was standing before him , at the distance of several yards , in a posture expressive of despair , terror , and what might be called an agony of humility . 
'Donovan , said he , 'shake up that drone and drunkard , Carlton tell him that his master directs that the travelling carriage shall be at the door within half an hour . 
Do you make your way back as best you can , and I shall follow my own nose . 
The servant watched him until he was lost in the shadowy haze of night and neither he nor any of the inmates of the castle saw Jacque again . 
He appeared from that moment unaccountably and strikingly changed , and thenceforward walked through life as a thing from which he could derive neither profit nor pleasure . 
Lady Ardagh gladly complied , and her sister Mary , who still continued unmarried , and Lady D were of course included in the invitations . 
For a long time she sought in vain to catch a glimpse of the face of the apparition , who thus seemed to stir and live before her . 
All this was so horribly distinct , that it seemed as if the mourner was standing within a few yards of the spot where Miss F d lay . 
As soon as Miss F d was tolerably recovered , she declared her determination to proceed directly , and without further loss of time , to Castle Ardagh . 
After some time she persuaded her sister to return to her room , where she remained with her until she had gone to bed , and appeared comparatively composed . 
Lady D then returned to the parlour , and not finding herself sleepy , she remained sitting by the fire . 
Her solitude was a second time broken in upon , by the entrance of her sister , who now appeared , if possible , more agitated than before . 
Superstitious feelings are at all times more or less contagious , and the last century afforded a soil much more congenial to their growth than the present . 
Miss F d had been nervously restless during the journey . 
By the assistance of one of the coach lamps they succeeded in deciphering it . 
I am too much terrified to write coherently but understand me hasten do not waste a minute . 
I am afraid you will come too late . 
A. The servant could tell nothing more than that the castle was in great confusion , and that Lady Ardagh had been crying bitterly all the night . 
Sir Robert was perfectly well . 
From within were distinctly audible the sounds of lamentation and weeping , and the suppressed hum of voices as if of those endeavouring to soothe the mourner . 
Oh ! no , no ! Wait till you have seen him . 
There is a frightful calmness about all he says and does and his directions are all so clear , and his mind so perfectly collected , it is impossible , quite impossible . 
And she wept yet more bitterly . 
At that moment Sir Robert's voice was heard in issuing some directions , as he came downstairs and Lady Ardagh exclaimed , hurriedly 'Go now and see him yourself . 
He is in the hall . 
He took her hand , and looking fixedly in her face , continued 'I shall not live to see to morrow's sun shine . 
'You are ill , sir , I have no doubt , replied she 'but I am very certain we shall see you much better to morrow , and still better the day following . 
'I am NOT ill , sister , replied he . 
'Feel my temples , they are cool lay your finger to my pulse , its throb is slow and temperate . 
I never was more perfectly in health , and yet do I know that ere three hours be past , I shall be no more . 
Pray return now to your sister . 
Lady Ardagh is , indeed , much to be pitied but what is past cannot now be helped . 
I have now a few papers to arrange , and some to destroy . 
I shall see you and Lady Ardagh before my death try to compose her her sufferings distress me much but what is past cannot now be mended . 
Thus saying , he went upstairs , and Lady D returned to the room where her sisters were sitting . 
'Well , exclaimed Lady Ardagh , as she re entered , 'is it not so ? do you still doubt ? do you think there is any hope ? Lady D was silent . 
'Oh ! none , none , none , continued she 'I see , I see you are convinced . 
And she wrung her hands in bitter agony . 
Lady D , starting up , followed to the door , and saw him take a candle in the hall , and walk deliberately up the stairs . 
Stimulated by a feeling of horrible curiosity , she continued to follow him at a distance . 
She saw him enter his own private room , and heard him close and lock the door after him . 
In breathless silence they listened to what should pass within . 
She knocked again more vio lently , with no further success . 
Lady Ardagh , now uttering a piercing shriek , sank in a swoon upon the floor . 
Three or four servants , alarmed by the noise , now hurried upstairs , and Lady Ardagh was carried apparently lifeless to her own chamber . 
They then , after having knocked long and loudly in vain , applied themselves to forcing an entrance into Sir Robert's room . 
After resisting some violent efforts , the door at length gave way , and all entered the room nearly together . 
There was a single candle burning upon a table at the far end of the apartment and stretched upon the bed lay Sir Robert Ardagh . 
On touching the body it was found to be cold as clay all lingering of the vital heat had left it . 
The party assembled at the castle , but the atmosphere was tainted with death . 
Grief there was not much , but awe and panic were expressed in every face . 
The guests talked in whispers , and the servants walked on tiptoe , as if afraid of the very noise of their own footsteps . 
The funeral was conducted almost with splendour . 
The body , having been conveyed , in compliance with Sir Robert's last directions , to Dublin , was there laid within the ancient walls of St . 
Audoen's Church where I have read the epitaph , telling the age and titles of the departed dust . 
The events which I have recorded are not imaginary . 
This paper , from a memorandum , I find to have been written in . 
The lady to whom allusion is made , I believe to be Miss Mary F d . 
She never married , and survived both her sisters , living to a very advanced age . 
THE LAST HEIR OF CASTLE CONNOR . 
Being a third Extract from the legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
See digest of the evidence upon the state of Ireland , given before the House of Commons . 
The O'Connors , of Castle Connor , were an ancient Irish family . 
After the accession of William III . 
, the storm of confiscation which swept over the land made woeful havoc in their broad domains . 
Some fragments of property , however , did remain to them , and with it the building which had for ages formed the family residence . 
The family at that time consisted of but two members , a widow lady and her only son , a young man aged about eighteen . 
He had been left early fatherless , and the representative and heir of his family . 
His mother's affection for him was intense in proportion as there existed no other object to divide it indeed such love as that she bore him I have never seen elsewhere . 
Her love was better bestowed than that of mothers generally is , for young O'Connor , not without some of the faults , had certainly many of the most engaging qualities of youth . 
Three years had passed away before I saw him again . 
During the interval , however , I had frequently heard from him , so that absence had not abated the warmth of our attachment . 
Bonfires blared far and near bagpipes roared and fiddles squeaked and , amid the thundering shouts of thousands , the carriage drew up before the castle . 
I know not whether partiality blinded me , or that I did no more than justice to my friend in believing that I had never seen so handsome a young man . 
I am inclined to think the latter . 
Time had wrought no small change in me , alike in mind and spirits but in the case of O'Connor it seemed to have lost its power to alter . 
I was allowed to indulge in undisturbed contemplation , for I suppose I was not known to more than five or six in the room . 
Among many who have long since passed from my memory , one person for some time engaged my attention , and that person , for many reasons , I shall not soon forget . 
This unaccountable feeling I have often experienced , and I believe I am not singular . 
but never in so remarkable a degree as upon this occasion . 
I did not fail immediately to ask him who this gentleman was . 
At length , wearied with witnessing amusements in which I could not sympathise , I left the room , and did not see O'Connor until late in the next day . 
I had ridden down towards the castle for the purpose of visiting the O'Connors , and had nearly reached the avenue leading to the mansion , when I met my friend . 
He was also mounted and having answered my inquiries respecting his mother , he easily persuaded me to accompany him in his ramble . 
I think I know enough about him to warrant me in saying so . 
'May I ask his name ? inquired I. 'Oh ! did not I tell you his name ? rejoined he . 
'You should have heard that first he and his name are equally well known . 
You will recognise the individual at once when I tell you that his name is Fitzgerald . 
I am convinced that in every case in which Fitzgerald has fought , if the truth could be discovered , he would be found to have acted throughout upon the defensive . 
No man is mad enough to risk his own life , except when the doing so is an alternative to submitting tamely to what he considers an insult . 
I am certain that no man ever engaged in a duel under the consciousness that he had acted an intentionally aggressive part . 
'When did you make his acquaintance ? said I. 'About two years ago , he replied . 
I know , therefore , that you will not unnecessarily mention its existence to her . 
I gave him the desired assurance , and added 'May I ask you . 
O'Connor seemed , I thought , slightly embarrassed . 
He answered 'No , no I cannot say that he ever attempted anything of the kind . 
YOU must be aware that my finances could not bear much pruning down . 
I never lost more to him at a sitting than about five pounds , which you know is nothing . 
No , you wrong him if you imagine that he attached himself to me merely for the sake of such contemptible winnings as those which a broken down Irish gentleman could afford him . 
Come , Purcell , you are too hard upon him you judge only by report you must see him , and decide for yourself . 
Suppose we call upon him now he is at the inn , in the High Street , not a mile off . 
I declined the proposal drily . 
'Your caution is too easily alarmed , said he . 
We found him at home and chatted with him for a considerable time . 
To my surprise his manners were perfectly those of a gentleman , and his conversation , if not peculiarly engaging , was certainly amusing . 
At the appointed hour , or perhaps a little later , I dismounted at Castle Connor and , on entering the hall , I observed a gentleman issuing from O'Connor's private room . 
You have some influence with my friend O'Connor I hope you can induce him to adopt some more moderate line of conduct than that he has decided upon . 
If you will allow me , I will return for a moment with you , and talk over the matter again with O'Connor . 
As M'Donough uttered these words , I felt that sudden sinking of the heart which accompanies the immediate anticipation of something dreaded and dreadful . 
I was instantly convinced that O'Connor had quarrelled with Fitzgerald , and I knew that if such were the case , nothing short of a miracle could extricate him from the consequences . 
I signed to M'Donough to lead the way , and we entered the little study together . 
As soon as O'Connor saw me , he came forward and shook me cordially by the hand . 
'My dear Purcell , said he , 'you are the very man I wanted . 
I have got into an ugly scrape , and I trust to my friends to get me out of it . 
'You have had no dispute with that man that Fitzgerald , I hope , said I , giving utterance to the conjecture whose truth I most dreaded . 
I lost my temper most confoundedly but , as well as I can recollect , he appeared perfectly cool and collected . 
What he said was , therefore , deliberately said , and on that account must be resented . 
'My dear O'Connor , are you mad ? I exclaimed . 
From all that I have heard you say , Fitzgerald has more to complain of in the altercation which has taken place than you . 
You owe it to your only surviving parent not to thrust yourself thus wantonly upon I will say it , the most appalling danger . 
'I believe , Purcell , your are right , said he . 
Mr. M'Donough , I'll thank you to hand me the note . 
He broke the seal , and , casting his eye hastily over it , he continued 'It is , indeed , a monument of folly . 
I am very glad , Purcell , you happened to come in , otherwise it would have reached its destination by this time . 
He threw it into the fire and , after a moment's pause , resumed 'You must not mistake me , however . 
I am perfectly satisfied as to the propriety , nay , the necessity , of communicating with Fitzgerald . 
The difficulty is in what tone I should address him . 
I seconded the proposal warmly , and O'Connor , in a few minutes , finished a note , which he desired us to read . 
'Castle Connor , Thursday morning . 
This note was consigned to the care of Mr. M'Donough , who forthwith departed to execute his mission . 
I have seldom passed a more anxious hour than that which intervened between the departure and the return of that gentleman . 
Every instant I imagined I heard the tramp of a horse approaching , and every time that a door opened I fancied it was to give entrance to the eagerly expected courier . 
At length I did hear the hollow and rapid tread of a horse's hoof upon the avenue . 
It approached it stopped a hurried step traversed the hall the room door opened , and M'Donough entered . 
At the same time he handed a note to O'Connor , who instantly broke the seal . 
The words were as follow 'Mr . 
, and begs leave to disavow any wish to quarrel unnecessarily with Mr. O'Connor . 
'T Inn , Thursday morning . 
I cannot describe how much I felt relieved on reading the above communication . 
Fitzgerald's career had been a remarkably successful one , and I knew that out of thirteen duels which he had fought in Ireland , in nine cases he had KILLED his man . 
My impression respecting the magnitude of the danger which my friend had incurred was therefore by no means unwarranted . 
I now questioned O'Connor more accurately respecting the circumstances of his quarrel with Fitzgerald . 
For this purpose he had sent for M'Donough , and had commissioned him to deliver the note , which my arrival had fortunately intercepted . 
It is scarcely necessary to remind the reader , that at the period spoken of , the important hour of dinner occurred very nearly at noon . 
'Request him , with my compliments , to walk in , said O'Connor and in a few moments a gentleman entered the room . 
His appearance was anything but prepossessing . 
He was a little above the middle size , spare , and raw boned his face very red , his features sharp and bluish , and his age might be about sixty . 
My business here is with a Mr. O'Connor , and the sooner it is despatched the better . 
'I am the gentleman you name , said O'Connor 'and as you appear impatient , we had better proceed to your commission without delay . 
'Then , Mr. O'Connor , you will please to read that note , said the captain , placing a sealed paper in his hand . 
O'Connor read it through , and then observed 'This is very extraordinary indeed . 
This note appears to me perfectly unaccountable . 
'You are very young , Mr. O'Connor , said the captain , with vulgar familiarity 'but , without much experience in these matters , I think you might have anticipated something like this . 
'I can have no objection , replied the captain , 'to your doing what you please with your own . 
O'Connor then read the following 'Mr . 
Fitzgerald begs leave to state , that upon re perusing Mr. O'Connor's communication of this morning carefully , with an experienced friend , he is forced to consider himself as challenged . 
His friend , Captain M'Creagh , has been empowered by him to make all the necessary arrangements . 
I can hardly describe the astonishment with which I heard this note . 
I turned to the captain , and said 'Surely , sir , there is some mistake in all this ? 'Not the slightest , I'll assure you , sir . 
said he , coolly 'the case is a very clear one , and I think my friend has pretty well made up his mind upon it . 
May I request your answer ? he continued , turning to O'Connor 'time is precious , you know . 
O'Connor expressed his willingness to comply with the suggestion , and in a few minutes had folded and directed the following rejoinder 'Mr . 
In this belief , however , we were mistaken before we had left the table , and in an incredibly short time , the captain returned . 
Something has occurred to render one between me and Mr. Fitzgerald inevitable . 
Understand me literally , when I say that it is now totally impossible that this affair should be amicably arranged . 
You will have the goodness , M'Donough , to let me know as soon as all the particulars are arranged . 
Purcell , he continued , 'will you have the kindness to accompany me ? and having bowed to M'Creagh , we left the room . 
I followed O'Connor into his study , and on entering , the door being closed , he showed me the communication which had determined him upon hostilities . 
Its language was grossly impertinent , and it concluded by actually threatening to 'POST' him , in case he further attempted 'to be OFF . 
I cannot describe the agony of indignation in which O'Connor writhed under this insult . 
It was in vain that I reasoned against this impression the conviction that he had been disgraced had taken possession of his mind . 
He said again and again that nothing but his DEATH could remove the stain which his indecision had cast upon the name of his family . 
M'Donough briefly stated the few particulars which had been arranged . 
The parties were to meet at the stand house , in the race ground , which lay at about an equal distance between Castle Connor and the town of T . 
On his departure , O'Connor requested me to remain with him upon that evening , saying that 'he could not bear to be alone with his mother . 
It was to me a most painful request , but at the same time one which I could not think of refusing . 
I trust that nothing may occur to prevent their coming . 
Fervently concurring in the same wish , I accompanied O'Connor into the parlour , there to await the arrival of his mother . 
I went to my room , and , in a state of excitement which I cannot describe , I paced for hours up and down its narrow precincts . 
Scared with the visions which seemed to throng with unceasing rapidity and vividness , I threw open the window and looked out upon the quiet scene around . 
A few minutes before four o'clock I stole noiselessly downstairs , and made my way to the small study already mentioned . 
I shall avoid half the danger . 
If I must fall , I am determined I shall not go down to the grave with his blood upon my hands . 
I have resolved not to fire at Fitzgerald that is , to fire in such a direction as to assure myself against hitting him . 
Do not say a word of this to the O'Gradys . 
Your doing so would only produce fruitless altercation they could not understand my motives . 
I feel convinced that I shall not leave the field alive . 
If I must die to day , I shall avoid an awful aggravation of wretchedness . 
Purcell , he continued , after a little space , 'I was so weak as to feel almost ashamed of the manner in which I was occupied as you entered the room . 
Yes , I I who will be , before this evening , a cold and lifeless clod , was ashamed to have spent my last moment of reflection in prayer . 
God pardon me ! God pardon me ! he repeated . 
I took his hand and pressed it , but I could not speak . 
I sought for words of comfort , but they would not come . 
To have uttered one cheering sentence I must have contradicted every impression of my own mind . 
I felt too much awed to attempt it . 
Shortly afterwards , M'Donough arrived . 
The document was a brief one , and the whole matter was just arranged , when the two O'Gradys crept softly into the room . 
'So ! last will and testament , said the elder . 
'Why , you have a very BLUE notion of these matters . 
I tell you , you need not be uneasy . 
I remember very well , when young Ryan of Ballykealey met M'Neil the duellist , bets ran twenty to one against him . 
I stole away from school , and had a peep at the fun as well as the best of them . 
Ryan received the ball through the collar of his coat , and M'Neil in the temple he spun like a top it was a most unexpected thing , and disappointed his friends damnably . 
It was admitted , however , to have been very pretty shooting upon both sides . 
'You will allow , said O'Connor , 'that the chances are heavily against me . 
'Why , let me see , he replied , 'not so hollow a thin , , either . 
There , M'Donough , there's a GET for you b t me , if it is not . 
M'Donough , myself , and my brother will saddle the horses in a jiffy , while you and Purcell settle anything which remains to be arranged . 
So saying , he left the room with as much alacrity as if it were to prepare for a fox hunt . 
The chill mists of night were still hovering on the landscape as our party left the castle . 
It was in vain that he sought to satisfy her by evasion , and gently to extricate himself from her embrace . 
At length , with much difficulty , we passed this most painful interruption and , crossing the boundary wall , were placed beyond her reach . 
The O'Gradys damned her for a troublesome hag , and passed on with O'Connor , but I remained behind for a moment . 
Pray return home and take this it may be useful to you . 
So saying , I dropped a purse , with what money I had about me , into her lap , but it lay there unheeded she did not hear me . 
The crathur that slept on my bosom the lovin' crathur that I was so proud of they'll kill him , they'll kill him . 
It brought tears to my eyes . 
As we approached the stand house , it was evident that our antagonists had already arrived . 
The affair had unaccountably taken wind , as the number of the expectants clearly showed but for this there was now no remedy . 
As our little party advanced we were met and saluted by several acquaintances , whom curiosity , if no deeper feeling , had brought to the place . 
Fitzgerald and the Captain had arrived , and having dismounted , were standing upon the sod . 
The former , as we approached , bowed slightly and sullenly while the latter , evidently in high good humour , made his most courteous obeisance . 
No time was to be lost and the two seconds immediately withdrew to a slight distance , for the purpose of completing the last minute arrangements . 
It was a brief but horrible interval each returned to his principal to communicate the result , which was soon caught up and repeated from mouth to mouth throughout the crowd . 
M'Donough sold the pass , by , and that is the long and the short of it . 
The parties now moved down a little to a small level space , suited to the purpose and the captain , addressing M'Donough , said 'Mr . 
M'Donough , you'll now have the goodness to toss for choice of ground as the light comes from the east the line must of course run north and south . 
Will you be so obliging as to toss up a crown piece , while I call ? A coin was instantly chucked into the air . 
The captain cried , 'Harp . 
The captain turned with a kind of laugh , and said 'By , sir , you are as cunning as a dead pig but you forgot one thing . 
My friend is a left handed gunner , though never a bit the worse for that so you see there is no odds as far as the choice of light goes . 
He then proceeded to measure nine paces in a direction running north and south , and the principals took their ground . 
'I must be troublesome to you once again , Mr. M'Donough . 
One toss more , and everything is complete . 
We must settle who is to have the FIRST SLAP . 
A piece of money was again thrown into the air again the captain lost the toss and M'Donough proceeded to load the pistols . 
I happened to stand near Fitzgerald , and I overheard the captain , with a chuckle , say something to him in which the word 'cravat' was repeated . 
I instantly urged him to remove it , and at length , with difficulty , succeeded . 
He seemed perfectly careless as to any precaution . 
Everything was now ready the pistol was placed in O'Connor's hand , and he only awaited the word from the captain . 
M'Donough , is your principal ready ? M'Donough replied in the affirmative and , after a slight pause , the captain , as had been arranged , uttered the words 'Ready fire . 
O'Connor fired , but so wide of the mark that some one in the crowd exclaimed 'Fired in the air . 
'Who says he fired in the air ? thundered Fitzgerald . 
'By he lies , whoever he is . 
'But even if he was fool enough to fire in the air , it is not in HIS power to put an end to the quarrel by THAT . 
A kind of low murmur , or rather groan , was now raised , and a slight motion was observable in the crowd , as if to intercept Fitzgerald's passage to his horse . 
O'Connor now interfered , requesting the crowd to forbear , and some degree of order was restored . 
This announcement was received with a shout by the crowd , who now resumed their places at either side of the plot of ground which had been measured . 
A cry of 'Coward , coward ! butcher , butcher ! arose from the crowd . 
'Do you object , Mr. M'Donough ? and upon what grounds , if you please ? said he . 
'Certainly he does not , replied O'Connor and , turning to M'Donough , he added , 'pray let there be no unnecessary delay . 
'There is no objection , then , said Fitzgerald . 
I object , said the younger of the O'Gradys , 'if nobody else will . 
There was an appalling ferocity in his tone and manner which no words could convey . 
He seemed transformed he was actually like a man possessed . 
'You have not got a second coat on ? inquired the Captain . 
'I beg pardon , but my duty to my friend requires that I should ascertain the point . 
O'Connor replied in the negative . 
There was now a breathless silence . 
O'Connor stood perfectly motionless and , excepting the death like paleness of his features , he exhibited no sign of agitation . 
His eye was steady his lip did not tremble his attitude was calm . 
The Captain , having re examined the priming of the pistols , placed one of them in the hand of Fitzgerald . 
M'Donough inquired whether the parties were prepared , and having been answered in the affirmative , he proceeded to give the word , 'Ready . 
Fitzgerald raised his hand , but almost instantly lowered it again . 
'In the name of my principal , said the Captain , 'I must and do insist upon these gentlemen moving back a little . 
We ask but little fair play , and no favour . 
The crowd moved as requested . 
M'Donough repeated his former question , and was answered as before . 
There was a breathless silence . 
Fitzgerald fixed his eye upon O'Connor . 
The appointed signal , 'Ready , fire ! was given . 
There was a pause while one might slowly reckon three Fitzgerald fired and O'Connor fell helplessly upon the ground . 
'There is no time to be lost , said M'Creagrh 'for , by , you have done for him . 
So saying , he threw himself upon his horse , and was instantly followed at a hard gallop by Fitzgerald . 
'Cold blooded murder , if ever murder was committed , said O'Grady . 
'He shall hang for it d n me , but he shall . 
A hopeless attempt was made to overtake the fugitives but they were better mounted than any of their pursuers , and escaped with ease . 
'He is bleeding but little that is a comfort at all events , said one of the gentlemen who surrounded the wounded man . 
Upon this rude bier my poor friend was carried from that fatal ground towards Castle Connor . 
I walked close by his side , and observed every motion of his . 
The first word he uttered was spoken as we approached the entrance of the castle itself , when he said repeatedly , 'The back way , the back way . 
'After all , Purcell , said he , with a melancholy smile , and speaking with evident difficulty , 'I believe I have got off with a trifling wound . 
I am sure it cannot be fatal I feel so little pain almost none . 
I cautioned him against fatiguing himself by endeavouring to speak and he remained quiet for a little time . 
At length he said 'Purcell , I trust this lesson shall not have been given in vain . 
God has been very merciful to me I feel I have an internal confidence that I am not wounded mortally . 
I instantly turned round , and in doing so the spectacle which met my eyes was sufficiently shocking . 
'Though his language was very technical , and consequently to me nearly unintelligible , I could perceive plainly by his manner that he considered the case as almost hopeless . 
O'Connor gradually gave some signs of returning animation , and at length was so far restored as to be enabled to speak . 
After some few general questions as to how he felt affected , etc . 
'You are you are indeed dying . 
There is no hope I should but deceive you if I held out any . 
This is a merciful dispensation but the rule has its exceptions its terrible exceptions . 
Never before or since have I seen horror so intensely depicted . 
He made a violent but fruitless effort to rise , and after a slight pause continued , with deep and urgent solemnity 'Doctor , how long shall I live ? Don't flatter me . 
I took the dear fellow's hand and kissed it , it was the only answer I could give , and left the room . 
I asked the first female servant I chanced to meet , if her mistress were yet up , and was answered in the affirmative . 
My manner was enough with a quickness almost preternatural she understood it all she simply said the words 'O'Connor is killed she uttered no more . 
How I left the room I know not I rode madly to my uncle's residence , and brought him back with me all the rest is a blank . 
But God dealt very mercifully with me His mighty hand rescued me from death and from madness when one or other appeared inevitable . 
As soon as I was permitted pen and ink , I wrote to the bereaved mother in a tone bordering upon frenzy . 
I accused myself of having made her childless I called myself a murderer I believed myself accursed I could not find terms strong enough to express my abhorrence of my own conduct . 
I recognised the old servant who opened the door , but he did not know me . 
I was completely changed suffering of body and mind had altered me in feature and in bearing , as much as in character . 
I asked the man whether his mistress ever saw visitors . 
He answered 'But seldom perhaps , however , if she knew that an old friend wished to see her for a few minutes , she would gratify him so far . 
At the same time I placed my card in his hand , and requested him to deliver it to his mistress . 
He returned in a few moments , saying that his lady would be happy to see me in the parlour , and I accordingly followed him to the door , which he opened . 
I entered the room , and was in a moment at the side of my early friend and benefactress . 
I was too much agitated to speak I could only hold the hands which she gave me , while , spite of every effort , the tears flowed fast and bitterly . 
I said I know not what something about resignation , I believe . 
'I hope I am resigned God made me more so , she said . 
'Oh , Mr. Purcell , I have often thought I loved my lost child TOO well . 
I cannot think of him now without more solemn feelings than if he were with me . 
There is something holy in our thoughts of the dead I feel it so . 
After a pause , she continued 'Mr . 
Purcell , do you remember his features well ? they were very beautiful . 
I assured her that I did . 
'Then you can tell me if you think this a faithful likeness . 
She took from a drawer a case in which lay a miniature . 
I took it reverently from her hands it was indeed very like touchingly like . 
I told her so and she seemed gratified . 
I requested her to keep it it was one in which he spoke much of her , and in terms of the tenderest affection . 
It was in vain that she tried to read it her eyes were filled with tears so she folded the letter , and placed it in her bosom . 
I rose to depart , and she also rose . 
'I will not ask you to delay your departure , said she 'your visit here must have been a painful one to you . 
I cannot find words to thank you for the letter as I would wish , or for all your kindness . 
Being a Fourth Extract from the Legacy of the late F. Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
It does appear that a mental phenomenon so extraordinary cannot be wholly without its use . 
I found a poor little girl crying piteously near the door , and after some slight difficulty I ascertained that her father was either dead or just dying . 
'And what may be your father's name , my poor child ? said I. She held down her head , as if ashamed . 
I repeated the question , and the wretched little creature burst into floods of tears still more bitter than she had shed before . 
'Oh , don't say that don't say that ! cried she . 
She looked in my face with the most earnest anxiety , as if her very existence depended upon what she should read there but I relieved her at once . 
Accordingly I told the child to lead the way , and followed her in silence . 
She hurried rapidly through the long narrow street which forms the great thoroughfare of the town . 
'We have to thank God that we have lodging and food , though it's poor enough , it is , your honour . 
As we mounted flight after flight towards the garret floor , I heard more and more distinctly the hurried talking of many voices . 
I could also distinguish the low sobbing of a female . 
On arriving upon the uppermost lobby these sounds became fully audible . 
The general obscurity , however , served to throw into prominent and startling relief the death bed and its occupant . 
The light was nearly approximated to , and fell with horrible clearness upon , the blue and swollen features of the drunkard . 
I did not think it possible that a human countenance could look so terrific . 
The lips were black and drawn apart the teeth were firmly set the eyes a little unclosed , and nothing but the whites appearing . 
Every feature was fixed and livid , and the whole face wore a ghastly and rigid expression of despairing terror such as I never saw equalled . 
As soon as I could remove my eyes from this horrible spectacle , I observed my friend Dr . 
D , one of the most humane of a humane profession , standing by the bedside . 
He had been attempting , but unsuccessfully , to bleed the patient , and had now applied his finger to the pulse . 
'Is there any hope ? I inquired in a whisper . 
A shake of the head was the reply . 
'The man is dead , said the physician , as he turned from the bed where the terrible figure lay . 
Dead ! thought I , scarcely venturing to look upon the tremendous and revolting spectacle . 
Dead ! without an hour for repentance , even a moment for reflection dead I without the rites which even the best should have . 
I looked upon the poor , sobbing , helpless creatures who knelt so humbly around me , and my heart bled for them . 
I stood actually riveted to the spot . 
The figure nodded its head and lifted its arm , I thought , with a menacing gesture . 
A thousand confused and horrible thoughts at once rushed upon my mind . 
She rushed towards the bed , but stunned by the shock , and overcome by the conflict of violent emotions , before she reached it she fell prostrate upon the floor . 
As it was , however , the spell was broken superstition gave way to reason the man whom all believed to have been actually dead was living ! Dr . 
I left the patient with leeches upon his temples , and bleeding freely , apparently with little of the drowsiness which accompanies apoplexy indeed , Dr . 
It was strange , but stranger things are coming . 
During two or three days Dr . 
D would not allow his patient to converse in a manner which could excite or exhaust him , with anyone he suffered him merely as briefly as possible to express his immediate wants . 
It was then , as I have said , upon the fourth day after my first professional call , that I found myself once more in the dreary chamber of want and sickness . 
The man was in bed , and appeared low and restless . 
So soon as we were alone , he said , rather doggedly 'There's no use in telling me of the sinfulness of bad ways I know it all . 
I know where they lead to I seen everything about it with my own eyesight , as plain as I see you . 
What do you think of that ? In hell I'm lost for ever I have not a chance . 
I am damned already damned damned ! The end of this sentence he actually shouted . 
His vehemence was perfectly terrific he threw himself back , and laughed , and sobbed hysterically . 
I poured some water into a tea cup , and gave it to him . 
'It's only foolishness , he continued , 'for me to try to thank you for coming to such a villain as myself at all . 
It's no use for me to wish good to you , or to bless you for such as me has no blessings to give . 
I told him that I had but done my duty , and urged him to proceed to the matter which weighed upon his mind . 
He then spoke nearly as follows 'I came in drunk on Friday night last , and got to my bed here I don't remember how . 
Sometime in the night it seemed to me I wakened , and feeling unasy in myself , I got up out of the bed . 
I wanted the fresh air but I would not make a noise to open the window , for fear I'd waken the crathurs . 
It was very dark and throublesome to find the door but at last I did get it , and I groped my way out , and went down as asy as I could . 
I felt quite sober , and I counted the steps one after another , as I was going down , that I might not stumble at the bottom . 
I do not know how long I was falling , but it seemed to me a great while . 
And there was men beyond reckoning , sitting down all along by it , at each side , as far as I could see at all . 
I did not know at first was it in the open air but there was a close smothering feel in it that was not natural . 
When I seen this , scarce knowing what I did , I got up , and I said , I have no right to be here I must go . 
And the man that was sitting at my left hand only smiled , and said , Sit down again you can NEVER leave this place . 
And his voice was weaker than any child's voice I ever heerd and when he was done speaking he smiled again . 
'Then I spoke out very loud and bold , and I said , In the name of God , let me out of this bad place . 
Here he paused and wiped away the chill drops of horror which hung upon his forehead . 
I remained silent for some moments . 
I left him much comforted , and with a promise to return upon the next day . 
I did so , and found him much more cheerful and without any remains of the dogged sullenness which I suppose had arisen from his despair . 
He perceived my thoughts , I suppose , for he immediately said 'I can never pass over that floor without trembling . 
So it's no wonder , sir , I'd thry to make it sound and firm with any idle timber I have . 
I applauded his resolution to pay off his debts , and the steadiness with which he perused his plans of conscientious economy , and passed on . 
Many months elapsed , and still there appeared no alteration in his resolutions of amendment . 
He was a good workman , and with his better habits he recovered his former extensive and profitable employment . 
Everything seemed to promise comfort and respectability . 
I have little more to add , and that shall be told quickly . 
I left him industrious , active , healthy when next I saw him , not three days after , he was a corpse . 
The circumstances which marked the event of his death were somewhat strange I might say fearful . 
Connell , however , previously to entering the room , had announced his determination to take nothing more than the strictest temperance would warrant . 
He was brought home nearly insensible . 
and placed in his bed , where he lay in the deep calm lethargy of drunkenness . 
'Pat , darling , where are you going ? said she . 
Much alarmed , she started up , and going to the head of the staircase , she called repeatedly upon her husband , but in vain . 
At the bottom lay what seemed to be a bundle of clothes , heaped together , motionless , lifeless it was her husband . 
The body lay upon that landing place to which his dream had referred . 
It was then a mystery . 
Was the dream verified ? whither had the disembodied spirit sped ? who can say ? We know not . 
But I left the house of death that day in a state of horror which I could not describe . 
It seemed to me that I was scarce awake . 
I heard and saw everything as if under the spell of a night mare . 
