Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
BY THE LATE JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE FANU , AUTHOR OF 'UNCLE SILAS . 
With a Memoir by ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES IN THREE VOLUMES . 
PASSAGE IN THE SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH COUNTESS THE BRIDAL OF CARRIGVARAH STRANGE EVENT IN THE LIFE OF SCHALKEN THE PAINTER SCRAPS OF HIBERNIAN BALLADS THE PURCELL PAPERS . 
PASSAGE IN THE SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH COUNTESS . 
Being a Fifth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
Strange ! two powerful and wealthy families , that in which she was born , and that into which she had married , have ceased to be they are utterly extinct . 
My mother died when I was quite an infant , and of her I have no recollection , even the faintest . 
My father was what is called an oddity , and his treatment of me , though uniformly kind , flowed less from affection and tenderness than from a sense of obligation and duty . 
This disgraceful and dreadful doubt cast upon the family name , my father felt deeply and bitterly , and not the less so that he himself was thoroughly convinced of his brother's innocence . 
The sincerity and strength of this impression he shortly afterwards proved in a manner which produced the dark events which follow . 
The consequence was , that Carrickleigh , which was the name of my uncle's residence , was never without one or more of such visitors as I have described . 
The door had been double locked upon the INSIDE , in evidence of which the key still lay where it had been placed in the lock . 
Near the bed were found a pair of razors belonging to the murdered man , one of them upon the ground , and both of them open . 
The weapon which had inflicted the mortal wound was not to be found in the room , nor were any footsteps or other traces of the murderer discoverable . 
Sir Arthur was of course examined his evidence was given with clearness and unreserve , which seemed calculated to silence all suspicion . 
He had mentioned the circumstance to his lady , and in presence of some of the domestics which statement was supported by THEIR respective evidence . 
It was said that while the juror was making this suggestion Sir Arthur changed colour . 
We went to the work like good ones , head , heart and soul and , in fact , since I came here , I have lost no time . 
Is there ? said he , and at the same time snatched it from my hand and threw it into the fire . 
So , all things considered , I think you must allow that you are not the last who have found a knowing boy in 'Yours to command , 'HUGH TISDALL . 
The passage in that periodical to which I allude , occurred about four years afterwards , and while the fatal occurrence was still fresh in public recollection . 
My father , however , wrote in a threatening tone to Faulkner , demanding a surrender of the author of the obnoxious article . 
He accordingly affected to despise these enjoyments which he could not procure , and shunned even that society which he might have commanded . 
This is all that I need recapitulate of my uncle's history , and I now recur to my own . 
It was during a fine autumn that I approached the old domain of Carrickleigh . 
From the top of this ridge the grey walls of Carrickleigh were visible , rising at a small distance in front , and darkened by the hoary wood which crowded around them . 
We did not expect you till ten o'clock my father is somewhere about the place , he must be close at hand . 
Her account of her brother was far less favourable , though she did not say anything directly to his disadvantage . 
However , you may easily suppose that I found nothing in my cousin's communication fully to bear me out in so very decided a conclusion . 
He was a striking looking man from peculiarities both of person and of garb , the whole effect of his appearance amounted to extreme singularity . 
He was tall , and when young his figure must have been strikingly elegant as it was , however , its effect was marred by a very decided stoop . 
His dress was of a sober colour , and in fashion anterior to anything which I could remember . 
I am most rejoiced to see you truly rejoiced . 
I trust that you are not much fatigued pray be seated again . 
You are both innocent , and both young . 
God bless you God bless you , and make you all that I could wish . 
He raised his eyes , and remained for a few moments silent , as if in secret prayer . 
I felt that it was impossible that this man , with feelings so quick , so warm , so tender , could be the wretch that public opinion had represented him to be . 
I was more than ever convinced of his innocence . 
His manner was , or appeared to me , most fascinating there was a mingled kindness and courtesy in it which seemed to speak benevolence itself . 
My curiosity respecting my male cousin did not long remain unsatisfied he appeared the next day at dinner . 
Emily , my father wants you in the corner turret . 
No shilly shally he's in a hurry . 
'Be off tramp , march ! he exclaimed , in a tone which the poor girl dared not disobey . 
She left the room , and Edward followed her to the door . 
He stood there for a minute or two , as if reflecting what he should say , perhaps satisfying himself that no one was within hearing in the hall . 
Must I ? 'I have no conception , I replied , 'what your object may be . 
'Well , well , said he , becoming more at his ease as he proceeded , 'it may be told in a few words . 
He paused but I was too much horrified to speak . 
He interpreted my silence favourably . 
'I can tell you , he continued , 'I'm reckoned rather hard to please , and very hard to HIT . 
I can't say when I was taken with a girl before so you see fortune reserved me Here the odious wretch wound his arm round my waist . 
As I ascended the stairs , I heard him open the parlour door with violence , and take two or three rapid strides in the direction in which I was moving . 
I was now much frightened , and ran the whole way until I reached my room and having locked the door , I listened breathlessly , but heard no sound . 
You will readily conceive my distress , when you reflect upon my strong dislike to my cousin Edward , combined with my youth and extreme inexperience . 
It was a calamity , too , in which I could not claim the sym pathy of my cousin Emily , which had always been extended to me in my minor grievances . 
The painful impressions of yesterday were too vivid to be at once erased and I could not help feeling some dim foreboding of coming annoyance and evil . 
To expect on my cousin's part anything like delicacy or consideration for me , was out of the question . 
When I entered the room , he did not rise in his usual courteous way to greet me , but simply pointed to a chair opposite to his own . 
I sat down , however , silently waiting until he should open the conversation . 
I shall put a question to you , and I expect and will demand a plain , direct answer . 
You know , too , none better , that an affected neglect , when skilfully managed , is amongst the most formidable of the engines which artful beauty can employ . 
'can warrant you in treating with contempt the affectionate regard of an honest heart . 
At length I replied , with some firmness 'In all that you have just now said , sir , you have grossly misstated my conduct and motives . 
You shall have time to consider the relative advantages of the two courses which are open to you . 
I should be sorry to hurry you to a decision . 
I am satisfied with having stated my feelings upon the subject , and pointed out to you the path of duty . 
Remember this day month not one word sooner . 
He then rose , and I left the room , much agitated and exhausted . 
I dreaded to look upon the face that had so recently worn the appalling livery of guilt and malignity . 
I regarded it with the mingled fear and loathing with which one looks upon an object which has tortured them in a nightmare . 
I have dismissed your Irish maid , and secured a French one to wait upon you a step rendered necessary by my proposing shortly to visit the Continent , with all my family . 
I could not help regarding her as a creature of my uncle's , and therefore to be dreaded , even had she been in no other way suspicious . 
Days and weeks passed away without any , even a momentary doubt upon my part , as to the course to be pursued by me . 
The allotted period had at length elapsed the day arrived on which I was to communicate my decision to my uncle . 
Although my resolution had never for a moment wavered , I could not shake of the dread of the approaching colloquy and my heart sunk within me as I heard the expected summons . 
I had not seen my cousin Edward since the occurrence of the grand eclaircissment he must have studiously avoided me I suppose from policy , it could not have been from delicacy . 
Filled with these dreary forebodings , I fearfully opened the study door , and the next minute I stood in my uncle's presence . 
You will excuse me , then , my dear niece , for speaking with an abruptness which , under other circumstances , would be unpardonable . 
A few words will suffice we perfectly understand one another . 
This announcement wrought no apparent change in Sir Arthur , except that he became deadly , almost lividly pale . 
He seemed lost in dark thought for a minute , and then with a slight effort said 'You have answered me honestly and directly and you say your resolution is unchangeable . 
Well , would it had been otherwise would it had been otherwise but be it as it is I am satisfied . 
He gave me his hand it was cold and damp as death under an assumed calmness , it was evident that he was fearfully agitated . 
'Madness INDEED to strain a cable that is rotten to the very heart it must break and then all goes . 
'Well , said my uncle , after a little time , 'we now cease to speak upon this topic , never to resume it again . 
Remember you shall have no farther uneasiness from Edward he leaves Ireland for France on to morrow this will be a relief to you . 
I then left the apartment , scarcely knowing what to think of the strange interview which had just taken place . 
This was a great satisfaction to me , and as being likely to prove so , it was no doubt communicated to me by Sir Arthur . 
During all this trying period , I had found infinite consolation in the society and sympathy of my dear cousin Emily . 
In cheerful converse with her I soon recovered my spirits considerably , and passed my time agreeably enough , although still in the strictest seclusion . 
Laughing at our own thoughtlessness , we returned to the house , and leaving Emily without , I ran upstairs to procure the drawing books and pencils , which lay in my bedroom . 
As I ran up the stairs I was met by the tall , ill looking Frenchwoman , evidently a good deal flurried . 
'Que veut , madame ? said she , with a more decided effort to be polite than I had ever known her make before . 
'No , no no matter , said I , hastily running by her in the direction of my room . 
'Madame , cried she , in a high key , 'restez ici , s'il vous plait votre chambre n'est pas faite your room is not ready for your reception yet . 
I continued to move on without heeding her . 
The window was open , and beside it stood two male figures they appeared to be examining the fastenings of the casement , and their backs were turned towards the door . 
One of them was my uncle they both turned on my entrance , as if startled . 
The stranger was booted and cloaked , and wore a heavy broad leafed hat over his brows . 
He turned but for a moment , and averted his face but I had seen enough to convince me that he was no other than my cousin Edward . 
He said something about 'REPAIRS window frames cold , and safety . 
I did not wait , however , to ask or to receive explanations , but hastily left the room . 
I joined my cousin Emily quite out of breath . 
I need not say that my head was too full of other things to think much of drawing for that day . 
I imparted to her frankly the cause of my alarms , but at the same time as gently as I could and with tears she promised vigilance , and devotion , and love . 
I never had reason for a moment to repent the unreserved confidence which I then reposed in her . 
The situation in which I had found my uncle had removed completely all my doubts as to his designs . 
I magnified suspicions into certainties , and dreaded night after night that I should be murdered in my bed . 
At this time Emily had a short conver sation with her father , which she reported to me instantly . 
After some indifferent matter , he had asked her whether she and I were upon good terms , and whether I was unreserved in my disposition . 
She answered in the affirmative and he then inquired whether I had been much surprised to find him in my chamber on the other day . 
She answered that I had been both surprised and amused . 
'And what did she think of George Wilson's appearance ? 'Who ? inquired she . 
'Oh , the architect , he answered , 'who is to contract for the repairs of the house he is accounted a handsome fellow . 
'She could not see his face , said Emily , 'and she was in such a hurry to escape that she scarcely noticed him . 
Sir Arthur appeared satisfied , and the conversation ended . 
An opportunity at length occurred . 
Before I did , however , an event occurred which a little surprised me . 
I was sitting in my bedroom early in the day , reading by myself , when I heard a knock at the door . 
'Come in , said I and my uncle entered the room . 
'Will you excuse me ? said he . 
'I sought you in the parlour , and thence I have come here . 
I desired to say a word with you . 
I trust that you have hitherto found my conduct to you such as that of a guardian towards his ward should be . 
I dared not withhold my consent . 
I could not utter a word . 
'Did you write that letter ? he repeated with slow and intense emphasis . 
You did , liar and hypocrite ! You dared to write this foul and infamous libel but it shall be your last . 
Men will universally believe you mad , if I choose to call for an inquiry . 
I can make you appear so . 
The suspicions expressed in this letter are the hallucinations and alarms of moping lunacy . 
I felt if this were not done , and speedily , that I should be MURDERED . 
The horse had gone , and , as she argued , the rider must have departed with it . 
Had I seen the evil one himself in bodily shape , I could not have experienced a more sickening revulsion . 
I was too much appalled to move at once from the window , but I did so soon enough to avoid his eye . 
He was looking fixedly into the narrow quadrangle upon which the window opened . 
I shrank back unperceived , to pass the rest of the day in terror and despair . 
I went to my room early that night , but I was too miserable to sleep . 
By this private entrance I found my way into her chamber , and without difficulty persuaded her to return to my room and sleep with me . 
My sense of hearing became unnaturally , almost painfully acute . 
I suppose the imagination added distinctness to sounds vague in themselves . 
I thought that I could actually hear the breathing of the person who was slowly returning down the lobby . 
At the head of the staircase there appeared to occur a pause and I could distinctly hear two or three sentences hastily whispered the steps then descended the stairs with apparently less caution . 
I now ventured to walk quickly and lightly to the lobby door , and attempted to open it it was indeed fast locked upon the outside , as was also the other . 
I returned to the bedside and shook Emily , but in vain . 
Nothing that I could do availed to produce from her more than a few incoherent words it was a death like sleep . 
She had certainly drank of some narcotic , as had I probably also , spite of all the caution with which I had examined everything presented to us to eat or drink . 
I now attempted , with as little noise as possible , to force first one door , then the other but all in vain . 
I believe no strength could have effected my object , for both doors opened inwards . 
I then returned to the bed and endeavoured again , but fruitlessly , to awaken my cousin . 
It was not sleep , it was torpor , lethargy , death . 
I knelt down and prayed with an agony of earnestness and then seating myself upon the bed , I awaited my fate with a kind of terrible tranquillity . 
I heard a faint clanking sound from the narrow court which I have already mentioned , as if caused by the scraping of some iron instrument against stones or rubbish . 
I therefore crawled upon my knees to the window , so as to let the smallest portion of my head appear above the sill . 
Whoever or whatever occasioned the noise which had excited my curiosity , was concealed under the shadow of the dark side of the quadrangle . 
Some implements , probably a shovel and pickaxe , lay beside him , and to these he every now and then applied himself as the nature of the ground required . 
He pursued his task rapidly , and with as little noise as possible . 
I am THEIRS I cannot escape . 
I felt as if my reason was leaving me . 
I started to my feet , and in mere despair I applied myself again to each of the two doors alternately . 
I strained every nerve and sinew , but I might as well have attempted , with my single strength , to force the building itself from its foundation . 
I threw myself madly upon the ground , and clasped my hands over my eyes as if to shut out the horrible images which crowded upon me . 
I prayed once more , with the bitter , agonised fervour of one who feels that the hour of death is present and inevitable . 
When I arose , I went once more to the window and looked out , just in time to see a shadowy figure glide stealthily along the wall . 
The catastrophe of the tragedy must soon be accomplished . 
I must then die tamely and without an effort to defend myself . 
I felt assured that the door through which ingress to the room would be effected , was that which opened upon the lobby . 
It was the more direct way , besides being , for obvious reasons , less liable to interruption than the other . 
It was Edward T n . 
As the moon was gleaming into the chamber , and the bed curtains were drawn , he was able to distinguish the bed itself and its contents . 
The cold night wind waved the bed curtains , and he paused for a moment all was still again and he stepped in upon the floor of the room . 
He held in his hand what appeared to be a steel instrument , shaped something like a hammer , but larger and sharper at the extremities . 
This he held rather behind him , while , with three long , tip toe strides , he brought himself to the bedside . 
I felt that the discovery must now be made , and held my breath in momentary expectation of the execration in which he would vent his surprise and disappointment . 
I closed my eyes there was a pause , but it was a short one . 
I heard two dull blows , given in rapid succession a quivering sigh , and the long drawn , heavy breathing of the sleeper was for ever suspended . 
A quick step was then heard approaching , and a voice whispered something from without . 
The key was turned in the lock the door opened and my uncle entered the room . 
I have told you already that I had placed myself under the shade of a projection of the wall , close to the door . 
I had instinctively shrunk down , cowering towards the ground on the entrance of Edward through the window . 
When my uncle entered the room he and his son both stood so very close to me that his hand was every moment upon the point of touching my face . 
I held my breath , and remained motionless as death . 
'You had no interruption from the next room ? said my uncle . 
'No , was the brief reply . 
'Secure the jewels , Ned the French harpy must not lay her claws upon them . 
You're a steady hand , by G ! not much blood eh ? 'Not twenty drops , replied his son , 'and those on the quilt . 
'I'm glad it's over , whispered my uncle again . 
'We must lift the the THING through the window , and lay the rubbish over it . 
'I'll take the jewels , said my uncle 'there are two caskets in the lower drawer . 
They then lowered themselves from the window . 
Not a second was to be lost . 
I passed through the door , which was only closed , and moved as rapidly as I could , consistently with stillness , along the lobby . 
Before I had gone many yards , I heard the door through which I had just passed double locked on the inside . 
I glided down the stairs in terror , lest , at every corner , I should meet the murderer or one of his accomplices . 
I reached the hall , and listened for a moment to ascertain whether all was silent around no sound was audible . 
The parlour windows opened on the park , and through one of them I might , I thought , easily effect my escape . 
Two or three chairs were placed about the table irregularly , as if hastily abandoned by their occupants . 
A single glance satisfied me that the figure was that of my French attendant . 
She was fast asleep , having probably drank deeply . 
There was something malignant and ghastly in the calmness of this bad woman's features , dimly illuminated as they were by the flickering blaze of the candle . 
An instant's pause , however , corrected me . 
'No , thought I , 'the God who has conducted me thus far through the valley of the shadow of death , will not abandon me now . 
I will fall into their hands , or I will escape hence , but it shall be free from the stain of blood . 
I felt a confidence arising from this reflection , an assurance of protection which I cannot describe . 
There was no other means of escape , so I advanced , with a firm step and collected mind , to the window . 
I did not for a moment slack my speed , and I had now gained the centre point between the park gate and the mansion house . 
I had , with my utmost speed , got about half way across this broad flat , when the rapid treading of a horse's hoofs struck upon my ear . 
My heart swelled in my bosom as though I would smother . 
The sounds were now close behind me . 
I felt my knees bending under me , with the sensation which torments one in dreams . 
I reeled I stumbled I fell and at the same instant the cause of my alarm wheeled past me at full gallop . 
It was one of the young fillies which pastured loose about the park , whose frolics had thus all but maddened me with terror . 
I turned in the direction of the voice , and fell fainting at the soldier's feet . 
When I came to myself I was sitting in a miserable hovel , surrounded by strange faces , all bespeaking curiosity and compassion . 
Many soldiers were in it also indeed , as I afterwards found , it was employed as a guard room by a detachment of troops quartered for that night in the town . 
But the villains had discovered their mistake , and had effected their escape before the arrival of the military . 
The Frenchwoman was , however , arrested in the neighbourhood upon the next day . 
She was tried and condemned upon the ensuing assizes and previous to her execution , confessed that 'SHE HAD A HAND IN MAKING HUGH TISDAL'S BED . 
She had been a housekeeper in the castle at the time , and a kind of chere amie of my uncle's . 
She was , in reality , able to speak English like a native , but had exclusively used the French language , I suppose to facilitate her disguise . 
With the particulars of Sir Arthur's and his son's escape , as far as they are known , you are acquainted . 
You are also in possession of their after fate the terrible , the tremendous retribution which , after long delays of many years , finally overtook and crushed them . 
Wonderful and inscrutable are the dealings of God with His creatures . 
Being a Sixth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
It was in the autumn of the year that the events which led to the catastrophe which I have to detail occurred . 
'You are a fool , Ned , said the younger . 
'Oh I this is downright headstrong folly , replied the young fisherman . 
'Why , Ned , you try to persuade me against my reason , that the event which is most to be deprecated has actually occurred . 
This concluding sentence was uttered with an animation and excitement , which the mere announcement of an abstract moral sentiment could hardly account for . 
'You are , then , indifferent , honestly and in sober earnest , indifferent to the girl ? inquired Dwyer . 
'Altogether so , was the reply . 
'Then I have a request to make , continued Dwyer , 'and I may as well urge it now as at any other time . 
'Nay , cried O'Mara , 'I listen patiently proceed . 
I do not ask you to displace Heathcote , in order to made room for me . 
I know it is out of your power to do so . 
Hear me patiently for a moment and I have done . 
O'Mara turned shortly upon Dwyer , and gazed upon him for a moment with an expression of almost unmixed resentment . 
'How , said he at length , 'YOU contract to marry Ellen Heathcote ? the poor , innocent , confiding , light hearted girl . 
'This eloquence goes to prove Ellen Heathcote something nearer to your heart than your great indifference would have led me to suppose . 
'Nay , sir , said Dwyer , 'I meant no offence , and I will take none , at your hands at least . 
As for women , they are all pretty much alike to me . 
I am too old myself to make nice distinctions , and too ugly to succeed by Cupid's arts and when a man despairs of success , he soon ceases to care for it . 
'God save you , Miss Heathcote , cried Dwyer , approaching the gate . 
The salutation was cheerfully returned , and before anything more could pass , O'Mara had joined the party . 
She was a thing so very beautiful , you could not look on her without feeling your heart touched as by sweet music . 
I must think upon it . 
He entered the avenue and was soon lost in the distance . 
'September , , L m , England . 
'MY DEAR SON , 'I have just had a severe attack of my old and almost forgotten enemy , the gout . 
'Your sincere well wisher and father , 'RICHARD O'MARA . 
At length he very abruptly exclaimed 'A delicate epistle , truly and a politic would that my tongue had been burned through before I assented to that doubly cursed contract . 
Why , I am not pledged yet I am not there is neither writing , nor troth , nor word of honour , passed between us . 
My father has no right to pledge me , even though I told him I liked the girl , and would wish the match . 
'Tis not enough that my father offers her my heart and hand he has no right to do it a delicate woman would not accept professions made by proxy . 
Lady Emily ! Lady Emily ! with all the tawdry frippery , and finery of dress and demeanour compare HER with Pshaw ! Ridiculous ! How blind , how idiotic I have been . 
He relapsed into moody reflections , which Dwyer did not care to disturb , and some ten minutes might have passed before he spoke again . 
When he did , it was in the calm tone of one who has irrevocably resolved upon some decided and important act . 
I love her madly I never dreamed till now how fervently , how irrevocably , I am hers how dead to me all other interests are . 
I am satisfied you will not betray me . 
I know 'Pardon me , said Dwyer , 'if I say that great professions of confidence too frequently mark distrust . 
I have no possible motive to induce me to betray you on the contrary , I would gladly assist and direct whatever plans you may have formed . 
Command me as you please I have said enough . 
'I will not doubt you , Dwyer , said O'Mara I have taken my resolution I have , I think , firmness to act up to it . 
To marry Ellen Heathcote , situated as I am , were madness to propose anything else were worse , were villainy not to be named . 
I will leave the country to morrow , cost what pain it may , for England . 
I will at once break off the proposed alliance with Lady Emily , and will wait until I am my own master , to open my heart to Ellen . 
My father may say and do what he likes but his passion will not last . 
He will forgive me and even were he to disinherit me , as he threatens , there is some property which must descend to me , which his will cannot affect . 
He cannot ruin my interests he SHALL NOT ruin my happiness . 
Dwyer , give me pen and ink I will write this moment . 
This bold plan of proceeding for many reasons appeared inexpedient to Dwyer , and he determined not to consent to its adoption without a struggle . 
'I commend your prudence , said he , 'in determining to remove yourself from the fascinating influence which has so long bound you here but beware of offending your father . 
'Dwyer , said O'Mara , 'I will hear you out proceed . 
Before a real contract can subsist , you must be an assenting party to it . 
I know of no casuistry subtle enough to involve you in any engagement whatever , without such an ingredient . 
Tush ! you have an easy card to play . 
'Excuse me , said Dwyer , 'but I would suggest that by hastening your departure you but bring your dangers nearer . 
No , no keep to this side of the Channel as long as you decently can . 
Besides , your sudden departure must appear suspicious , and will probably excite inquiry . 
Young O'Mara was not hard to be persuaded . 
Young O'Mara's reflections were more agitating and less satisfactory than those of his companion . 
He resolved upon leaving the country before two days had passed . 
His determination was so far prudent but , alas ! he also resolved that it was but right , but necessary , that he should see her before his departure . 
His leaving the country without a look or a word of parting kindness interchanged , must to her appear an act of cold and heartless caprice he could not bear the thought . 
'No , said he , 'I am not child enough to say more than prudence tells me ought to say this cowardly distrust of my firmness I should and will contemn . 
Besides , why should I commit myself ? It is possible the girl may not care for me . 
No , no I need not shrink from this interview . 
I have no reason to doubt my firmness none none . 
I must cease to be governed by impulse . 
I am involved in rocks and quicksands and a collected spirit , a quick eye , and a steady hand , alone can pilot me through . 
Both these were despatched to the post office that evening , and upon the next morning he was to leave the country . 
, and having drawn her mantle closely about her , was proceeding with quick steps to traverse the small field which separated her from her father's abode . 
She had not walked many yards when she became aware that a solitary figure , muffled in a cloak , stood in the pathway . 
It approached a low voice whispered 'Ellen . 
'Is it you , Master Richard ? she replied . 
He threw back the cloak which had concealed his features . 
'It is I , Ellen , he said 'I have been watching for you . 
I will not delay you long . 
He took her hand , and she did not attempt to withdraw it for she was too artless to think any evil , too confiding to dread it . 
'Ellen , he continued , even now unconsciously departing from the rigid course which prudence had marked out 'Ellen , I am going to leave the country going to morrow . 
I have had letters from England . 
I must go and the sea will soon be between us . 
He paused , and she was silent . 
'There is one request , one entreaty I have to make , he continued 'I would , when I am far away , have something to look at which belonged to you . 
She placed it in his hand . 
'Tis for me to tell the simple fact , that from that brief interview they both departed promised and pledged to each other for ever . 
Through the rest of this story events follow one another rapidly . 
Francis , by whom the ceremony had been performed , and whom Heathcote had no difficulty in recognising in the person of his visitant . 
And his conviction was not a mistaken one . 
He refused , also , to permit Heathcote to see his daughter , and even to tell him where she was , until circumstances rendered it safe for him to visit her . 
Nearly two months had passed , and young O'Mara had not yet departed for England . 
A letter arrived for young O'Mara , stating the arrangement , and requiring his attendance in Dublin , which was accordingly immediately afforded . 
He arrived , with Dwyer , in time to welcome his father and his distinguished guests . 
He strongly felt how dishonourably he would act if , in obedience to Dwyer's advice , he seemed tacitly to acquiesce in an engagement which it was impossible for him to fulfil . 
He had not at any time desired the alliance nor had he any reason to suppose the young lady in any degree less indifferent . 
, proceeded to the place proposed , where they continued to walk for some time . 
'Why , Richard , said Lady Emily , after a tedious and unbroken pause of some minutes , 'you are becoming worse and worse every day . 
You are growing absolutely intolerable perfectly stupid ! not one good thing have I heard since I left the house . 
'Is Heathcote mad ? thought he . 
He bowed , and walking rapidly on , was in a few moments beside the object of his and his patron's uneasiness . 
, in whose neighbourhood he lived . 
During this speech it required all the effort which it was possible to exert to prevent O'Mara's betraying the extreme agitation to which his situation gave rise . 
Captain N , however , suspected no thing , and passed on without further delay . 
Dinner was an early meal in those days , and Lady Emily was obliged to leave the Park in less than half an hour after the unpleasant meeting which we have just mentioned . 
Young O'Mara and , at a sign from him , Dwyer having escorted the lady to the door of Colonel O'Mara's house , pretended an engagement , and departed together . 
Richard O'Mara instantly questioned his comrade upon the subject of his anxiety but Dwyer had nothing to communicate of a satisfactory nature . 
To this Heathcote had replied 'Never fear me I understand what I am about . 
This was said in such an ambiguous manner that it was impossible to conjecture whether he intended or not to act upon Dwyer's exhortation . 
The conclusion which appeared most natural , was by no means an agreeable one . 
If he entertained the suspicions which they attributed to him , he had certainly taken the most effectual means to prevent their being realised . 
Whatever his object might be , his presence in Dublin , in company with Captain N , boded nothing good to O'Mara . 
They entered 's tavern , in Dame Street , together and there , over a hasty and by no means a comfortable meal , they talked over their plans and conjectures . 
Evening closed in , and found them still closeted together , with nothing to interrupt , and a large tankard of claret to sustain their desultory conversation . 
'One good result , at all events , will be effected by Heathcote's visit , said O'Mara . 
'Before twenty four hours I shall do that which I should have done long ago . 
I shall , without reserve , state everything . 
I can no longer endure this suspense this dishonourable secrecy this apparent dissimulation . 
Every moment I have passed since my departure from the country has been one of embarrassment , of pain , of humiliation . 
Though PASSIVE deception , it is still unmanly , unworthy , unjustifiable deception . 
I cannot bear to think of it . 
I despise myself , but I will cease to be the despicable thing I have become . 
To morrow sees me free , and this harassing subject for ever at rest . 
He was interrupted here by the sound of footsteps heavily but rapidly ascending the tavern staircase . 
The room door opened , and Captain N , accompanied by a fashionably attired young man , entered the room . 
Young O'Mara had risen from his seat on the entrance of their unexpected visitants and the moment Captain N recognised his person , an evident and ominous change passed over his countenance . 
He turned hastily to withdraw , but , as it seemed , almost instantly changed his mind , for he turned again abruptly . 
'This chamber is engaged , sir , said the waiter . 
'Leave the room , sir , was his only reply . 
'The room is engaged , sir , repeated the waiter , probably believing that his first suggestion had been unheard . 
'Sir , continued he , addressing himself to O'Mara , 'I did not hope to have met you until to morrow . 
Fortune has been kind to me draw , and defend yourself . 
At the same time he drew his sword , and placed himself in an attitude of attack . 
'I will not draw upon YOU , said O'Mara . 
'I have , indeed , wronged you . 
I have given you just cause for resentment but against your life I will never lift my hand . 
'You are a coward , sir , replied Captain N , with almost frightful vehemence , 'as every trickster and swindler IS . 
'Perhaps , said his friend , with a sneer , 'the gentleman can do better without his honour than without his wife . 
Captain N was far the stronger of the two but , on the other hand , O'Mara possessed far more skill in the use of the fatal weapon which they employed . 
But the narrowness of the room rendered this advantage hardly available . 
Almost instantly O'Mara received a slight wound upon the forehead , which , though little more than a scratch , bled so fast as to obstruct his sight considerably . 
Without saying a word , the successful combatant quitted the room along with his companion , leaving Dwyer to shift as best he might for his fallen comrade . 
Medical aid was , of course , instantly procured , and Colonel O'Mara , though at the time seriously indisposed , was urgently requested to attend without loss of time . 
He did so but human succour and support were all too late . 
The wound had been truly dealt the tide of life had ebbed and his father had not arrived five minutes when young O'Mara was a corpse . 
His body rests in the vaults of Christ Church , in Dublin , without a stone to mark the spot . 
I have myself seen the letter which induced that visit . 
The handwriting is exactly what I have seen in other alleged specimens of Dwyer's penmanship . 
This appears to me too complicated a plan of villany to have entered the mind even of such a man as Dwyer . 
I must , therefore , suppose his motives to have originated out of circumstances connected with this story which may not have come to my ear , and perhaps never will . 
Colonel O'Mara felt the death of his son more deeply than I should have thought possible but that son had been the last being who had continued to interest his cold heart . 
Perhaps the pride which he felt in his child had in it more of selfishness than of any generous feeling . 
He evinced not towards her , as might have been expected , any unreasonable resentment . 
Thither my attendance was required , in order to administer to a deeply distressed lady such comforts as an afflicted mind can gather from the sublime hopes and consolations of Christianity . 
The whole character of the place was that of dreary desertion and decay , which would of itself have predisposed the mind for melancholy impressions . 
I had been waiting but for a very few minutes when another female servant , somewhat older than the first , entered the room . 
'And the mother's name ? said I , inquiringly . 
The woman looked at me for a moment , smiled , and shook her head with the air of mingled mystery and importance which seems to say , 'I am unfathomable . 
I nodded acquiescence , and ascending a narrow and ill constructed staircase , she stopped at a chamber door and knocked . 
'Come in , said a gentle voice from within , and , preceded by my conductress , I entered a moderately sized , but rather gloomy chamber . 
There was but one living form within it it was the light and graceful figure of a young woman . 
'You do not remember me , sir ? said the same low , mournful voice . 
'I am I WAS Ellen Heathcote . 
'I do remember you , my poor child , said I , taking her hand 'I do remember you very well . 
Speak to me frankly speak to me as a friend . 
Whatever I can do or say for you , is yours already only speak . 
'You were always very kind , sir , to those to those that WANTED kindness . 
Well , sir , it is not in my heart to blame him . 
What was I that I should look at him ? an ignorant , poor , country girl and he so high and great , and so beautiful . 
The blame was all mine it was all my fault I could not think or hope he would care for me more than a little time . 
She could not go on for a minute or two . 
'The little child that is lying there , on that bed but it is dead and gone , and there is no reason NOW why I should delay any more about it . 
She put her hand into her breast , and took out a letter , which she opened . 
She put it into my hands . 
It ran thus 'DEAR MASTER RICHARD , 'My little child is dead , and your happiness is all I care about now . 
You ought , therefore , to break the marriage , and I will sign whatever YOU wish , or your family . 
'Ellen , said I solemnly , 'Richard O'Mara was never unfaithful to you he is now where human reproach can reach him no more . 
As I said this , the hectic flush upon her cheek gave place to a paleness so deadly , that I almost thought she would drop lifeless upon the spot . 
'Is he is he dead , then ? said she , wildly . 
I took her hand in mine , and told her the sad story as best I could . 
She listened with a calmness which appeared almost unnatural , until I had finished the mournful narration . 
She wept and kissed it , and kissed it and wept again , in grief so passionate , so heartrending , as to draw bitter tears from my eyes . 
A month , however , passed away , and I did not hear anything of Ellen . 
I sent frequently to inquire , and often called myself , and all that I heard convinced me that she was rapidly sinking into the grave . 
We arrived safely , and in a very short time but too late . 
I stood by the bed upon which lay the once beautiful form of Ellen Heathcote . 
I leant over the lifeless face , and scanned the beautiful features which , living , had wrought such magic on all that looked upon them . 
They were , indeed , much wasted but it was impossible for the fingers of death or of decay altogether to obliterate the traces of that exquisite beauty which had so distinguished her . 
As I gazed on this most sad and striking spectacle , remembrances thronged fast upon my mind , and tear after tear fell upon the cold form that slept tranquilly and for ever . 
A few days afterwards I was told that a funeral had left the Lodge at the dead of night , and had been conducted with the most scrupulous secrecy . 
It was , of course , to me no mystery . 
Heathcote lived to a very advanced age , being of that hard mould which is not easily impressionable . 
The selfish and the hard hearted survive where nobler , more generous , and , above all , more sympathising natures would have sunk for ever . 
STRANGE EVENT IN THE LIFE OF SCHALKEN THE PAINTER . 
Being a Seventh Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
You will no doubt be surprised , my dear friend , at the subject of the following narrative . 
So much I believe you already know . 
The dress , however , is not strictly that of any religious order . 
When I look upon that picture , something assures me that I behold the representation of a reality . 
My father knew the painter well , and from Schalken himself he learned the story of the mysterious drama , one scene of which the picture has embodied . 
We must content ourselves , then , with a plain statement of facts , or what have been received and transmitted as such , leaving matters of speculation to those who like them . 
In short , he was as much in love as a Dutchman could be . 
He was not long in making his passion known to the pretty maiden herself , and his declaration was followed by a corresponding confession upon her part . 
But Schalken worked for improvement , or rather for love . 
Anthony , who reclined in the midst of them , apparently in the last stage of drunkenness . 
The large , old fashioned room was silent , and , with the exception of himself , quite deserted by its usual inmates . 
An hour had passed nearly two without any improved result . 
Daylight had already declined , and twilight was fast giving way to the darkness of night . 
The artist turned sharply round , and now for the first time became aware that his labours had been overlooked by a stranger . 
He watched in vain , however . 
There was no other mode of exit . 
'Mynher Vanderhausen , said Gerard Douw within himself , as the appointed hour approached , 'Mynher Vanderhausen of Rotterdam ! I never heard of the man till yesterday . 
Well , whatever the business may be , we shall soon know it all . 
It was now the close of day , and every easel , except that of Schalken , was deserted . 
'The hour is close at hand , then , said the master , consulting a horologe as large and as round as a full grown orange . 
'Mynher Vanderhausen , from Rotterdam is it not so ? 'Such was the name . 
'And an elderly man , richly clad ? continued Douw . 
As for me , I think our old Leyden contains a sufficiency of such commodities , without an importation from Rotterdam . 
I would wager a dozen of Rhenish , his worship would have pleaded old acquaintance before the third application . 
The visitor waved his hand slightly , as , if in acknowledgment of the courtesy , but remained standing . 
'I have the honour to see Mynher Vanderhausen , of Rotterdam ? said Gerard Douw . 
'The same , was the laconic reply of his visitant . 
'I understand your worship desires to speak with me , continued Douw , 'and I am here by appointment to wait your commands . 
'Is that a man of trust ? said Vanderhausen , turning towards Schalken , who stood at a little distance behind his master . 
'Then let him take this box and get the nearest jeweller or goldsmith to value its contents , and let him return hither with a certificate of the valuation . 
In accordance with the wishes of the stranger , he delivered it into the hands of Schalken , and repeating HIS directions , despatched him upon the mission . 
Schalken entered the shop , and calling the little Hebrew into the obscurity of its back recesses , he proceeded to lay before him Vanderhausen's packet . 
On being examined by the light of a lamp , it appeared entirely cased with lead , the outer surface of which was much scraped and soiled , and nearly white with age . 
You visited the town of Rotterdam some four months ago , and then I saw in the church of St . 
Lawrence your niece , Rose Velderkaust . 
If you approve my proposal , you must close with it at once , for I cannot command time enough to wait for calculations and delays . 
'Do not seek to deceive me , Sir Painter , said Vanderhausen 'you are her guardian she is your ward . 
She is mine if YOU like to make her so . 
The man of Rotterdam moved forward a little as he spoke , and Gerard Douw , he scarce knew why , inwardly prayed for the speedy return of Schalken . 
'I desire , said the mysterious gentleman , 'to place in your hands at once an evidence of my wealth , and a security for my liberal dealing with your niece . 
The lad will return in a minute or two with a sum in value five times the fortune which she has a right to expect from a husband . 
This shall lie in your hands , together with her dowry , and you may apply the united sum as suits her interest best it shall be all exclusively hers while she lives . 
Is that liberal ? Douw assented , and inwardly thought that fortune had been extraordinarily kind to his niece . 
Rose had no very high pretensions , for she was almost without dowry indeed , altogether so , excepting so far as the deficiency had been supplied by the generosity of her uncle . 
You shall have sufficient security for my respectability my word , if you are honourable if you are sordid , my gold . 
'A testy old gentleman , thought Douw 'he must have his own way . 
But , all things considered , I am justified in giving my niece to him . 
Were she my own daughter , I would do the like by her . 
I will not pledge myself unnecessarily , however . 
At length he said 'Are you content ? The painter said he would fain have an other day to consider . 
'Not an hour , said the suitor , coolly . 
'Well , then , said Douw , 'I am content it is a bargain . 
'Then sign at once , said Vanderhausen 'I am weary . 
At the same time he produced a small case of writing materials , and Gerard signed the important document . 
The compact being thus completed , the strange visitor folded up the paper , and stowed it safely in an inner pocket . 
'I will visit you to morrow night , at nine of the clock , at your house , Gerard Douw , and will see the subject of our contract . 
And so saying , Wilken Vanderhausen moved stiffly , but rapidly out of the room . 
This was very strange , very odd , very fearful . 
He and his master returned together , and talked but little on the way , for each had his own sub jects of reflection , of anxiety , and of hope . 
Schalken , however , did not know the ruin which threatened his cherished schemes . 
'Such faces and such tempers seldom go together , and , when they do , the compound is a love potion which few heads or hearts can resist . 
Trust me , thou wilt soon be a bride , girl . 
But this is trifling , and I am pressed for time , so make ready the large room by eight o'clock to night , and give directions for supper at nine . 
I expect a friend to night and observe me , child , do thou trick thyself out handsomely . 
I would not have him think us poor or sluttish . 
With these words he left the chamber , and took his way to the room to which we have already had occasion to introduce our readers that in which his pupils worked . 
The little party , consisting of Rose , her uncle , and the artist , awaited the arrival of the expected visitor with considerable impatience . 
The stranger stopped at the door of the room , and displayed his form and face completely . 
In one hand he carried his walking stick and his hat , which he had removed , and the other hung heavily by his side . 
A quantity of grizzled hair descended in long tresses from his head , and its folds rested upon the plaits of a stiff ruff , which effectually concealed his neck . 
It was remarkable that the worshipful stranger suffered as little as possible of his flesh to appear , and that during his visit he did not once remove his gloves . 
They had not so far lost all self possession , however , as to fail to observe two strange peculiarities of their visitor . 
These two peculiarities , though when told they may appear trifling , produced a very striking and unpleasant effect when seen and observed . 
Vanderhausen at length relieved the painter of Leyden of his inauspicious presence and with no small gratification the little party heard the street door close after him . 
Gerard laughed , though he could not help inwardly acknowledging the justness of the comparison . 
I have no sentimental scenes to describe , no cruelty of guardians , or magnanimity of wards , or agonies of lovers . 
The record I have to make is one of sordidness , levity , and interest . 
The interest of the money , which was to have been demanded in quarterly sums , lay unclaimed in his hands . 
He began to grow extremely uneasy . 
Mynher Vanderhausen's direction in Rotterdam he was fully possessed of . 
His search was in vain , however . 
No one in Rotterdam had ever heard of Mynher Vanderhausen . 
Gerard Douw left not a house in the Boom quay untried but all in vain . 
No one could give him any information whatever touching the object of his inquiry and he was obliged to return to Leyden , nothing wiser than when he had left it . 
The driver reined in his horses , much fearing , from the obscurity of the hour , and the loneliness of the road , that some mischief was intended . 
In the inside of the vehicle he found a purse , whose contents more than thrice paid the hire of the carriage and man . 
He saw and could tell nothing more of Mynher Vanderhausen and his beautiful lady . 
This mystery was a source of deep anxiety and almost of grief to Gerard Douw . 
There was evidently fraud in the dealing of Vanderhausen with him , though for what purpose committed he could not imagine . 
They heard him then open the hall door , and immediately there followed a light and rapid tread upon the staircase . 
Schalken laid his hand on his sword , and advanced towards the door . 
It opened before he reached it , and Rose rushed into the room . 
She looked wild and haggard , and pale with exhaustion and terror but her dress surprised them as much even as her unexpected appearance . 
It consisted of a kind of white woollen wrapper , made close about the neck , and descending to the very ground . 
It was much deranged and travel soiled . 
The poor creature had hardly entered the chamber when she fell senseless on the floor . 
'Oh ! send for a minister of God , said she 'I am not safe till he comes send for him speedily . 
'Oh that the holy man were here ! she said 'he can deliver me . 
The dead and the living can never be one God has forbidden it . 
With these mysterious words she surrendered herself to their guidance , and they proceeded to the chamber which Gerard Douw had assigned to her use . 
'Do not do not leave me for a moment , said she . 
'I am lost for ever if you do . 
Gerard Douw's chamber was approached through a spacious apartment , which they were now about to enter . 
Gerard Douw and Schalken each carried a was candle , so that a sufficient degree of light was cast upon all surrounding objects . 
'I saw him , said she . 
'He's here ! I cannot be deceived I know him . 
He's by me he's with me he's in the room . 
These and such mysterious and broken sentences she continued to utter until the clergyman arrived . 
Gerard Douw , forgetting for the moment her repeated injunctions in the immediate impulse , stepped from the bedchamber into the other , in order to supply what she desired . 
Schalken and he both rushed to the door , but their united and desperate efforts could not avail so much as to shake it . 
Shriek after shriek burst from the inner chamber , with all the piercing loudness of despairing terror . 
Schalken and Douw applied every energy and strained every nerve to force open the door but all in vain . 
One LAST shriek , so long and piercing and agonised as to be scarcely human , swelled from the room , and suddenly there followed a death like silence . 
The window was open , and Schalken sprang to a chair and gazed out upon the street and canal below . 
It was necessary that a very considerable journey should be performed by the funeral procession , which , as it will readily be believed , was not very numerously attended . 
Schalken with difficulty arrived in Rotterdam late in the day upon which the funeral was appointed to take place . 
The procession had not then arrived . 
Evening closed in , and still it did not appear . 
He first thought that the old sexton had called him , but HE was no longer in the room . 
She was moving rather away from him , and towards the flight of steps which conducted towards the vaults . 
Schalken felt a vague alarm at the sight of this figure , and at the same time an irresistible impulse to follow its guidance . 
There was nothing horrible , or even sad , in the countenance . 
On the contrary , it wore the same arch smile which used to enchant the artist long before in his happy days . 
A feeling of awe and of interest , too intense to be resisted , prompted him to follow the spectre , if spectre it were . 
The whole production exhibits a beauti ful specimen of that artful and singular distribution of light and shade which has rendered the name of Schalken immortal among the artists of his country . 
Being an Eighth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
, are altogether spurious , and as much like the thing they call themselves 'as I to Hercules . 
There are to be sure in Ireland , as in all countries , poems which deserve to be laughed at . 
And she who wandered by my side , And breathed enchantment o'er thy tide , That makes thee still my friend and guide And she is dead . 
, as may be seen in the following stanza of the famous 'Shanavan Voicth . 
Whether they be one whit the better for this I have my doubts . 
In order to establish my position , I subjoin a portion of a ballad by one Michael Finley , of whom more anon . 
The GENTLEMAN spoken of in the song is Lord Edward Fitzgerald . 
It was in vain for me to reason with this man of metres upon the unreasonableness of this despotic and exclusive assertion of copyright . 
An' that's the rason why I think it id be better for the likes iv me to be remimbered in tradition than to be written in history . 
And all the girls liked him , for he could spake civil , And sweet when he chose it , for he was the divil . 
An' there wasn't a girl from thirty five undher , Divil a matter how crass , but he could come round her . 
But of all the sweet girls that smiled on him , but one Was the girl of his heart , an' he loved her alone . 
'But Michael O'Hanlon loved Kathleen as well As he hated Crohoore an' that same was like hell . 
Then Phaudhrig made answer I'll do my endeavour , An' with one blow he stretched bould O'Hanlon for ever . 
And he took a good pike for Phaudhrig was great And he fought , and he died in the year ninety eight . 
An' the day that Crohoore in the green field was killed , A sthrong boy was sthretched , and a sthrong heart was stilled . 
