Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
BY THE LATE JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE FANU , AUTHOR OF 'UNCLE SILAS . 
With a Memoir by ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES IN THREE VOLUMES . 
LONDON RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON , Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen . 
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data LeFanu , Joseph Sheridan , . 
published by R. Bentley , London . 
ISBN Reprinted from an original copy in the collection of the University of Chicago Library . 
From the edition of , London First AMS edition published in Manufactured in the United States of America International Standard Book Number Complete Set Volume III X AMS PRESS INC . 
NEW YORK , N. Y. CONTENTS OF VOL . 
JIM SULIVAN'S ADVENTURES IN THE GREAT SNOW . 
Being a Ninth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
Nell Gorman was the girl he fancied , an' a beautiful slip of a girl she was , jist twinty to the minute when he married her . 
Well , as soon as the woman saw him , 'Move aff , says she , 'an' don't be inthrudin' an the fire , says she . 
'Hould your tongue , you barbarrian , says she 'you'll waken the child , says she . 
says he , 'into castor oil , says he . 
'Hould me , some iv ye , or I'll murdher her , says he . 
'Will you ? says she , an' with that she hot him another tin times as good as the first . 
'Is that Mr. Soolivan ? says the by . 
says he , as soon as he saw him a good bit aff . 
'To be sure it is , ye spalpeen , you , says Jim , roarin' out 'what do you want wid me this time a day ? says he . 
'Don't you know me ? says the gossoon , 'it's Mick Hanlon that's in it , says he . 
'Oh , blur an agers , thin , it's welcome you are , Micky asthore , says Jim 'how is all wid the man an' the woman beyant ? says he . 
'It's jokin' ye are , says Jim , sorrowful enough , for he was mighty partial to his uncle intirely . 
'Oh , not in the smallest taste , says Micky 'the breath was jist out iv him , says he , 'when I left the farm . 
'It's I that's the unforthunate famale , says she , 'an' not yourself , Jim Soolivan , says she . 
'It's thrue for you , Jim Mallowney , says she , 'but I'm afeard the neighbours will be all talkin' about it , says she . 
'Divil's cure to the word , says he . 
'An' who would you advise ? says she . 
'Young Andy Curtis is the boy , says he . 
'He's a likely boy in himself , says she . 
'An' as handy a gossoon as is out , says he . 
Literally , Cornelius James the last name employed as a patronymic . 
Corney , pronounced Kurny , is just as much used in the South , as the short name for Cornelius . 
'What the divil's the matther ? says Andy Curtis , wakenin' out iv his sleep . 
'Who's batin' the door ? says Nell 'what's all the noise for ? says she . 
'Who's in it ? says Andy . 
'It's me , says Jim . 
'Who are you ? says Andy 'what's your name ? 'Jim Soolivan , says he . 
'By jabers , you lie , says Andy . 
'Wait till I get at you , says Jim , hittin' the door a lick iv the wattle you'd hear half a mile off . 
'It's him , sure enough , says Nell 'I know his speech it's his wandherin' sowl that can't get rest , the crass o' Christ betune us an' harm . 
'Let me in , says Jim , 'or I'll dhrive the door in a top iv yis . 
'An' tell me how many masses 'ill make you asy , an' by this crass , I'll buy you as many as you want , says she . 
'I don't know what the divil you mane , says Jim . 
'Go back , says she , 'go back to glory , for God's sake , says she . 
'The Lord forbid , says she . 
'Jim Soolivan , says she , as soon as he was done , 'go back , for God's sake , an' don't be freakenin' me an' your poor fatherless childhren , says she . 
'Why , you bosthoon , you , says Jim , 'won't you let your husband in , says he , 'to his own house ? says he . 
'You WOR my husband , sure enough , says she , 'but it's well you know , Jim Soolivan , you're not my husband NOW , says she . 
'You're as dhrunk as can be consaved , says Jim . 
'Go back , in God's name , pacibly to your grave , says Nell . 
'By my sowl , it's to my grave you'll sind me , sure enough , says he , 'you hard hearted bain' , for I'm jist aff wid the cowld , says he . 
'Bad luck to you , says he 'for a rale divil av a woman , says he . 
I 'can't get any advantage av you , any way but wait till I get hould iv you , that's all , says he . 
'God save ye , kindly , your raverence , says they . 
'It's to lay it , you want me , I suppose , says the priest . 
'If your raverence 'id do that same , it 'id be plasin' to us , says Andy . 
'It'll be rather expinsive , says the priest . 
'We'll not differ about the price , your raverence , says Andy . 
'Did the sperit stop long ? says the priest . 
'Most part iv the night , says Nell , 'the Lord be merciful to us all ! says she . 
'That'll make it more costly than I thought , says he . 
'An' did it make much noise ? says he . 
'Phiew ! says the priest 'it'll cost a power iv money . 
'Well , your raverence , says Andy , 'take whatever you like , says he 'only make sure it won't annoy us any more , says he . 
Well , by the time Jim kem to himself , the family persaved the mistake , an' Andy wint home , lavin' Nell to make the explanation . 
An' Andy was there along wid the rest , an' the priest put a small pinnance upon him , for bein' in too great a hurry to marry a widdy . 
I find that I have taken the story down as she told it , in the first person , and perhaps this is as it should be . 
She began as follows My maiden name was Richardson , the designation of a family of some distinction in the county of Tyrone . 
I was the younger of two daughters , and we were the only children . 
I have carefully altered the names as they appear in the original MSS . 
The person upon whom she bestowed her hand was a Mr. Carew , a gentleman of property and consideration in the north of England . 
I remember well the eventful day of the wedding the thronging carriages , the noisy menials , the loud laughter , the merry faces , and the gay dresses . 
The day soon arrived which was to remove the happy couple from Ashtown House . 
The carriage stood at the hall door , and my poor sister kissed me again and again , telling me that I should see her soon . 
My father had never seemed to love or to take an interest in me . 
He had desired a son , and I think he never thoroughly forgave me my unfortunate sex . 
My mother was , I dare say , as fond of me as she was of anyone but she was a woman of a masculine and a worldly cast of mind . 
She had no tenderness or sympathy for the weaknesses , or even for the affections , of woman's nature and her demeanour towards me was peremptory , and often even harsh . 
It is not to be supposed , then , that I found in the society of my parents much to supply the loss of my sister . 
The symptoms most dwelt upon were loss of appetite and cough . 
The journey , one of about ninety miles , was to be divided the larger portion being reserved for the second day . 
On Sunday a letter reached us , stating that the party would leave Dublin on Monday , and , in due course , reach Ashtown upon Tuesday evening . 
Tuesday came the evening closed in , and yet no carriage darkness came on , and still no sign of our expected visitors . 
For some such sound I was feverishly listening . 
The noise approached it became louder and clearer it stopped for a moment . 
I now heard the shrill screaming of the rusty iron , as the avenue gate revolved on its hinges again came the sound of wheels in rapid motion . 
'It is they , said I , starting up 'the carriage is in the avenue . 
We all stood for a few moments breathlessly listening . 
On thundered the vehicle with the speed of a whirlwind crack went the whip , and clatter went the wheels , as it rattled over the uneven pavement of the court . 
A general and furious barking from all the dogs about the house , hailed its arrival . 
The hall door was now thrown open , and we all stepped forth to greet our visitors . 
We stared one upon another in perplexity and dismay , and I think I never beheld more pale faces assembled . 
We returned to the house , more panic struck than I can describe . 
On the next day , we learned by a messenger , who had ridden hard the greater part of the night , that my sister was dead . 
On Sunday evening , she had retired to bed rather unwell , and , on Monday , her indisposition declared itself unequivocally to be malignant fever . 
She became hourly worse and , on Tuesday night , a little after midnight , she expired . 
These tales have been WRITTEN DOWN , as the heading of each announces , by the Rev . 
We saw nothing more of Mr. Carew . 
My father's wealth and connection had established him in the best society , and , consequently , upon our arrival in the metropolis we commanded whatever enjoyment or advantages its gaieties afforded . 
The tumult and novelty of the scenes in which I was involved did not fail con siderably to amuse me , and my mind gradually recovered its tone , which was naturally cheerful . 
It was almost immediately known and reported that I was an heiress , and of course my attractions were pretty generally acknowledged . 
Among the many gentlemen whom it was my fortune to please , one , ere long , established himself in my mother's good graces , to the exclusion of all less important aspirants . 
'Fanny , my dear , said she , in her softest tone , 'I wish to say a word or two with you before I go to rest . 
'Sit down , my dear , said she , placing herself upon a chair beside me 'I must chat with you for a quarter of an hour or so . 
'you may leave the room do not close the room door , but shut that of the lobby . 
This precaution against curious ears having been taken as directed , my mother proceeded . 
'You have observed , I should suppose , my dearest Fanny indeed , you MUST have observed Lord Glenfallen's marked attentions to you ? 'I assure you , madam I began . 
You have done better than we could have hoped , at least so very soon . 
Lord Glenfallen is in love with you . 
I give you joy of your conquest and saying this , my mother kissed my forehead . 
'In love with me ! I exclaimed , in unfeigned astonishment . 
'Yes , in love with you , repeated my mother 'devotedly , distractedly in love with you . 
'None none in the world . 
Judge for yourself read this , my love . 
And she placed in my hand a letter , addressed to herself , the seal of which was broken . 
I read it through with no small surprise . 
'Well , dear , and what frightens you ? continued she . 
'Are you afraid of a title ? What has he done to alarm you ? he is neither old nor ugly . 
I was silent , though I might have said , 'He is neither young nor handsome . 
Of course you see the offer in the same light that I do indeed I think you MUST . 
This was uttered in no very dubious tone . 
I was so much astonished by the suddenness of the whole communication that I literally did not know what to say . 
'You are not in love ? said my mother , turning sharply , and fixing her dark eyes upon me with severe scrutiny . 
'No , madam , said I , promptly horrified , as what young lady would not have been , at such a query . 
'I'm glad to hear it , said my mother , drily . 
I cannot conceive anything more unreasonable or intolerable than that the fortune and the character of a family should be marred by the idle caprices of a girl . 
She spoke this with great severity , and paused as if she expected some observation from me . 
I , however , said nothing . 
Come hither , my dear kiss me , and do not look so frightened . 
Well , now , about this letter , you need not answer it yet of course you must be allowed time to make up your mind . 
In the meantime I will write to his lordship to give him my permission to visit us at Ashtown . 
Good night , my love . 
And thus ended one of the most disagreeable , not to say astounding , conversations I had ever had . 
Whether this apparent candour went deeper than the outward bearing , I was yet to learn . 
When next I met him it was with no small embarrassment , his tact and good breeding , however , soon reassured me , and effectually prevented my awkwardness being remarked upon . 
If she had , however , expected any determined opposition from me , she was agree ably disappointed . 
All these combined , not unnaturally , induced me to resolve upon yielding at once , and without useless opposition , to what appeared almost to be my fate . 
The appointed time was come , and my now accepted suitor arrived he was in high spirits , and , if possible , more entertaining than ever . 
I will not weary you with unnecessary prolixity . 
Let it suffice to say , that I was married to Lord Glenfallen with all the attendant pomp and circumstance of wealth , rank , and grandeur . 
I set forth with my noble companion , followed by the regrets of some , and by the envy of many though God knows I little deserved the latter . 
The three days of travel were now almost spent , when , passing the brow of a wild heathy hill , the domain of Cahergillagh opened suddenly upon our view . 
It formed a striking and a beautiful scene . 
'There lies the enchanted castle , said Lord Glenfallen , pointing towards a considerable level space intervening between two of the picturesque hills , which rose dimly around the lake . 
'You must not , my love , said Lord Glenfallen , 'imagine this place worse than it is . 
I have no taste for antiquity at least I should not choose a house to reside in because it is old . 
But here is old Martha you must be introduced to her , one of the heirlooms of our family . 
I turned , smiling and half ashamed , to the old servant , and said 'You see what a coward I am . 
'Where is it ? said I 'what has become of it ? 'What does your ladyship wish to know ? said the old woman . 
'What is the matter , my good friend ? said I 'you seem frightened . 
'Merciful God , keep us from harm and danger ! muttered she at length . 
'What can have terrified you so ? said I , beginning to fear that she had seen something more than had met my eye . 
'You appear ill , my poor woman ! 'Nothing , nothing , my lady , said she , rising . 
'I beg your ladyship's pardon for making so bold . 
I desire you , therefore , to let me know what agitates you I command you to tell me . 
'Your ladyship said you saw a black curtain falling across the door when you were coming into the room , said the old woman . 
'I did , said I 'but though the whole thing appears somewhat strange , I cannot see anything in the matter to agitate you so excessively . 
'It's for no good you saw that , my lady , said the crone 'something terrible is coming . 
It's a sign , my lady a sign that never fails . 
'Explain , explain what you mean , my good woman , said I , in spite of myself , catching more than I could account for , of her superstitious terror . 
'Whenever something something BAD is going to happen to the Glenfallen family , some one that belongs to them sees a black handkerchief or curtain just waved or falling before their faces . 
I saw it myself , continued she , lowering her voice , 'when I was only a little girl , and I'll never forget it . 
I often heard of it before , though I never saw it till then , nor since , praised be God . 
In spite of old Martha's boding predictions , however , time flowed on in an unruffled course . 
One little incident however , though trifling in itself , I must relate , as it serves to make what follows more intelligible . 
Upon the day after my arrival , Lord Glenfallen of course desired to make me acquainted with the house and domain and accordingly we set forth upon our ramble . 
When returning , he became for some time silent and moody , a state so unusual with him as considerably to excite my surprise . 
I endeavoured by observations and questions to arouse him but in vain . 
At length , as we approached the house , he said , as if speaking to himself 'Twere madness madness madness , repeating the words bitterly 'sure and speedy ruin . 
'But I do not , said he , drily . 
We walked on in silence for a time . 
I was much astonished at his unwonted abruptness I had almost said rudeness . 
Now I shall make test of you , in the first place , respecting the latter of these qualities . 
I shall be your BLUEBEARD tush , why do I trifle thus ? Listen to me , my dear Fanny I speak now in solemn earnest . 
What I desire is intimately , inseparably , connected with your happiness and honour as well as my own and your compliance with my request will not be difficult . 
It will impose upon you a very trifling restraint during your sojourn here , which certain events which have occurred since our arrival have determined me shall not be a long one . 
I do not urge this in jest or in caprice , but from a solemn conviction that danger and misery will be the certain consequences of your not observing what I prescribe . 
I cannot explain myself further at present . 
Promise me , then , these things , as you hope for peace here , and for mercy hereafter . 
More than a month passed away without any occurrence worth recording but I was not destined to leave Cahergillagh without further adventure . 
One day , intending to enjoy the pleasant sunshine in a ramble through the woods , I ran up to my room to procure my bonnet and shawl . 
Upon entering the chamber , I was surprised and somewhat startled to find it occupied . 
Beside the fireplace , and nearly opposite the door , seated in a large , old fashioned elbow chair , was placed the figure of a lady . 
But although very rich , her dress was not gaudy or in ill taste . 
I was for some seconds so surprised at this unaccountable apparition , that I could not find words to address her . 
'Madam , said I , 'there must be some mistake here this is my bed chamber . 
'I do not think he will , said she 'with your good leave , talk of what you know something about . 
Tell him I want him . 
'I must tell you , madam , said I , 'that I am Lady Glenfallen . 
'What's that ? said the stranger , rapidly . 
'I say , madam , I repeated , approaching her that I might be more distinctly heard , 'that I am Lady Glenfallen . 
The blind woman continued to pour out a torrent of abuse upon me , foaming at the mouth with rage , and impotently shaking her clenched fists towards me . 
What passed within I know not but I heard the voices of the two speakers raised in loud and angry altercation . 
I thought I heard the shrill accents of the woman repeat the words , 'Let her look to herself but I could not be quite sure . 
This short sentence , however , was , to my alarmed imagination , pregnant with fearful meaning . 
The storm at length subsided , though not until after a conference of more than two long hours . 
Lord Glenfallen then returned , pale and agitated . 
'That unfortunate woman , said he , 'is out of her mind . 
I daresay she treated you to some of her ravings but you need not dread any further interruption from her I have brought her so far to reason . 
She did not hurt you , I trust . 
'No , no , said I 'but she terrified me beyond measure . 
This occurrence , so startling and un pleasant , so involved in mystery , and giving rise to so many painful surmises , afforded me no very agreeable food for rumination . 
All attempts on my part to arrive at the truth were baffled Lord Glenfallen evaded all my inquiries , and at length peremptorily forbid any further allusion to the matter . 
I was thus obliged to rest satisfied with what I had actually seen , and to trust to time to resolve the perplexities in which the whole transaction had involved me . 
Lady Glenfallen , I have become involved in heavy embarrassments . 
A wife , you know , must share the fortunes of her husband , for better for worse but I will waive my right if you prefer remaining here here at Cahergillagh . 
For I would not have you seen elsewhere without the state to which your rank entitles you besides , it would break your poor mother's heart , he added , with sneering gravity . 
'So make up your mind Cahergillagh or France . 
I will start if possible in a week , so determine between this and then . 
He left the room , and in a few moments I saw him ride past the window , followed by a mounted servant . 
He had directed a domestic to inform me that he should not be back until the next day . 
I was in very great doubt as to what course of conduct I should pursue , as to accompanying him in the continental tour so suddenly determined upon . 
Full of these unpleasing doubts and perplexities , I retired to rest . 
Listen to me , now , attentively and fearlessly , for what I have to say interests you to the full as much as it does me . 
Tell me here , in the presence of God , did Lord Glenfallen marry you ACTUALLY MARRY you ? Speak the truth , woman . 
'As surely as I live and speak , I replied , 'did Lord Glenfallen marry me , in presence of more than a hundred witnesses . 
'Well , continued she , 'he should have told you THEN , before you married him , that he had a wife living , which wife I am . 
I feel you tremble tush ! do not be frightened . 
I do not mean to harm you . 
Mark me now you are NOT his wife . 
When I make my story known you will be so neither in the eye of God nor of man . 
You must leave this house upon to morrow . 
Let the world know that your husband has another wife living go you into retirement , and leave him to justice , which will surely overtake him . 
If you remain in this house after to morrow you will reap the bitter fruits of your sin . 
So saying , she quitted the room , leaving me very little disposed to sleep . 
Here was food for my very worst and most terrible suspicions still there was not enough to remove all doubt . 
I had no proof of the truth of this woman's statement . 
Still I was not satisfied , nor nearly so . 
The morning came , and with it Lord Glenfallen . 
I was , however , determined not to suffer the opportunity to pass , or Lord Glenfallen to leave the room , until , at all hazards , I had unburdened my mind . 
I fixed my eyes upon him to discern , if possible , whether the announcement caused him any uneasiness but no symptom of any such feeling was perceptible . 
'Well , my dear , said he , 'this is no doubt a very grave preface , and portends , I have no doubt , something extraordinary . 
Pray let us have it without more ado . 
He took a chair , and seated himself nearly opposite to me . 
'My lord , said I , 'I have seen the person who alarmed me so much a short time since , the blind lady , again , upon last night . 
'My lord , said I , 'I have neither forgotten your COMMANDS , since such they were , nor disobeyed them . 
I was , last night , wakened from my sleep , as I lay in my own chamber , and accosted by the person whom I have mentioned . 
How she found access to the room I cannot pretend to say . 
'Your lordship is not mistaken , said I 'her statement was so extraordinary that I could not think of withholding it from you . 
She told me , my lord , that you had a wife living at the time you married me , and that she was that wife . 
There was a silence of some moments , during which it were hard to conjecture whether I or my companion suffered most . 
You should have remembered that , and hesitated to receive as unexceptionable evidence against the honour of your husband , the ravings of a lunatic . 
I shall instantly let the worthy lady who contrived this somewhat original device , understand fully my opinion upon the matter . 
Good morning and with these words he left me again in doubt , and involved in all horrors of the most agonising suspense . 
I did not like to press the poor woman further , for her reluctance to speak on this topic was evident and strong . 
It was not strange that my thoughts should often recur to the agitating scenes in which I had recently taken a part . 
So vivid was the impression that I started to my feet , and involuntarily placed my hand upon my neck . 
I looked around the room for the speaker , but in vain . 
I rang the bell , and , attended by old Martha , I retired to settle for the night . 
I had hardly been before it for the lapse of a minute when something like a black pall was slowly waved between me and it . 
'Oh , God ! there it is , I exclaimed , wildly . 
'I have seen it again , Martha the black cloth . 
'God be merciful to us , then ! answered she , tremulously crossing herself . 
'Some misfortune is over us . 
'No , no , Martha , said I , almost instantly recovering my collectedness for , although of a nervous temperament , I had never been superstitious . 
'I do not believe in omens . 
You know I saw , or fancied I saw , this thing before , and nothing followed . 
'The Dutch lady came the next morning , replied she . 
'But surely her coming scarcely deserved such a dreadful warning , I replied . 
'She is a strange woman , my lady , said Martha 'and she is not GONE yet mark my words . 
'Well , well , Martha , said I , 'I have not wit enough to change your opinions , nor inclination to alter mine so I will talk no more of the matter . 
Good night , and so I was left to my reflections . 
The words were instantly followed by a loud burst of laughter . 
Quaking with horror , I awakened , and heard my husband enter the room . 
Even this was it relief . 
Lord Glenfallen went into his dressing room , which lay upon the right hand side of the bed . 
Hour after hour was told by the old clock , and each succeeding one found me , if possible , less inclined to sleep than its predecessor . 
A view of it was commanded from where I lay , through the curtains . 
It stepped cautiously into the chamber , and with so little noise , that had I not actually seen it , I do not think I should have been aware of its presence . 
She was apparently satisfied by her observations , for she immediately recommenced her silent progress towards a ponderous mahogany dressing table of my husband's . 
She opened it , and tried the edge of each of the two instruments upon the skin of her hand she quickly selected one , which she fixed firmly in her grasp . 
I was fixed as if in the tremendous spell of a nightmare . 
A slight inaccuracy saved me from instant death the blow fell short , the point of the razor grazing my throat . 
Scrambling along by the curtains , she rushed round the bed towards me I seized the handle of the door to make my escape . 
It was , however , fastened . 
At all events , I could not open it . 
From the mere instinct of recoiling terror , I shrunk back into a corner . 
She was now within a yard of me . 
Her hand was upon my face . 
I closed my eyes fast , expecting never to open them again , when a blow , inflicted from behind by a strong arm , stretched the monster senseless at my feet . 
At the same moment the door opened , and several domestics , alarmed by my cries , entered the apartment . 
I do not recollect what followed , for I fainted . 
One swoon succeeded another , so long and death like , that my life was considered very doubtful . 
I accordingly did so , as did also Lord Glenfallen , and the woman was fully committed to stand her trial at the ensuing assizes . 
I shall never forget the scene which the examination of the blind woman and of the other parties afforded . 
She was brought into the room in the custody of two servants . 
She wore a kind of flannel wrapper which had not been changed since the night before . 
It was torn and soiled , and here and there smeared with blood , which had flowed in large quantities from a wound in her head . 
The white handkerchief had fallen off in the scuffle , and her grizzled hair fell in masses about her wild and deadly pale countenance . 
On being asked her name , she called herself the Countess Glenfallen , and refused to give any other title . 
'The woman's name is Flora Van Kemp , said Lord Glenfallen . 
'It WAS , it WAS , you perjured traitor and cheat ! screamed the woman and then there followed a volley of words in some foreign language . 
'Is there a magistrate here ? she resumed 'I am Lord Glenfallen's wife I'll prove it write down my words . 
I am willing to be hanged or burned , so HE meets his deserts . 
'I think , sir , said he , addressing the magistrate , 'that we had better proceed to business this unhappy woman's furious recriminations but waste our time . 
If she refuses to answer your questions , you had better , I presume , take my depositions . 
'And are you going to swear away my life , you black perjured murderer ? shrieked the woman . 
Take down all I say . 
'If it is your intention , said the magistrate , 'to confess the crime with which you stand charged , you may , upon producing sufficient evidence , criminate whom you please . 
'Evidence ! I have no evidence but myself , said the woman . 
This was followed by a low , insolent , and sneering laugh , which , from one in her situation , was sufficiently horrible . 
'I will not at present hear anything , replied he , 'but distinct answers to the questions which I shall put to you upon this matter . 
'Then you shall hear nothing , replied she sullenly , and no inducement or intimidation could bring her to speak again . 
Lord Glenfallen's deposition and mine were then given , as also those of the servants who had entered the room at the moment of my rescue . 
His agony often broke out into such fearful paroxysms that delirium and total loss of reason appeared to be impending . 
The assizes arrived , however , and upon the day appointed Lord Glenfallen and I attended in order to give our evidence . 
The cause was called on , and the prisoner appeared at the bar . 
Great curiosity and interest were felt respecting the trial , so that the court was crowded to excess . 
After much time had been wasted in a fruitless attempt to prevail upon her to reconsider her words , the court proceeded , according to the usual form , to pass sentence . 
Secure him chain him bring him here . 
There was a laugh through the court at these words , which were naturally treated by the judge as a violent extemporary recrimination , and the woman was desired to be silent . 
The sound still rang in my ears , months after the voice that had uttered it was for ever silent . 
The wretched woman was executed in accordance with the sentence which had been pronounced . 
I therefore expected my father's arrival , or at least a letter to announce it , with indescribable impatience . 
About a week after the execution had taken place , Lord Glenfallen one morning met me with an unusually sprightly air . 
'Fanny , said he , 'I have it now for the first time in my power to explain to your satisfaction everything which has hitherto appeared suspicious or mysterious in my conduct . 
After breakfast come with me to my study , and I shall , I hope , make all things clear . 
This invitation afforded me more real pleasure than I had experienced for months . 
Full of this hope , I repaired to his study at the appointed hour . 
He was writing busily when I entered the room , and just raising his eyes , he requested me to be seated . 
I took a chair as he desired , and remained silently awaiting his leisure , while he finished , folded , directed , and sealed his letter . 
Before the end of this week I will show you the necessity of my conduct how impossible it was that I should have seemed otherwise . 
I am conscious that many acts of mine must have inevitably given rise to painful suspicions suspicions which , indeed , upon one occasion , you very properly communicated to me . 
However , there is a person in the next room whose testimony is not without its value excuse me for one moment . 
I immediately heard his voice in animated conversation . 
I accordingly drew it over to me and turned up the direction . 
For two or three moments I could scarce believe my eyes , but there could be no mistake in large characters were traced the words , 'To the Archangel Gabriel in Heaven . 
'Whom have you there ? inquired I , making a strong effort to appear calm . 
'Perhaps , said he , musingly , 'you might have some objection to seeing her , at least for a time . 
'Who is it ? repeated I. 'Why , said he , 'I see no use in hiding it the blind Dutchwoman . 
I have been with her the whole morning . 
She is very anxious to get out of that closet but you know she is odd , she is scarcely to be trusted . 
A heavy gust of wind shook the door at this moment with a sound as if something more substantial were pushing against it . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! do you hear her ? said he , with an obstreperous burst of laughter . 
The wind died away in a long howl , and Lord Glenfallen , suddenly checking his merriment , shrugged his shoulders , and muttered 'Poor devil , she has been hardly used . 
'Humph ! may be so , said he . 
'Well , come back in an hour or two , or when you please , and you will find us here . 
I accordingly descended , and , to my great joy , found my father seated by the fire . 
This expedition upon his part was easily accounted for my communications had touched the honour of the family . 
I speedily informed him of the dreadful malady which had fallen upon the wretched man . 
My father suggested the necessity of placing some person to watch him , to prevent his injuring himself or others . 
I rang the bell , and desired that one Edward Cooke , an attached servant of the family , should be sent to me . 
I told him distinctly and briefly the nature of the service required of him , and , attended by him , my father and I proceeded at once to the study . 
The door of the inner room was still closed , and everything in the outer chamber remained in the same order in which I had left it . 
We then advanced to the closet door , at which we knocked , but without receiving any answer . 
We next tried to open the door , but in vain it was locked upon the inside . 
We knocked more loudly , but in vain . 
Seriously alarmed , I desired the servant to force the door , which was , after several violent efforts , accomplished , and we entered the closet . 
Lord Glenfallen was lying on his face upon a sofa . 
'Hush ! said I , 'he is asleep . 
We paused for a moment . 
'He is too still for that , said my father . 
We all of us felt a strong reluctance to approach the figure . 
'Edward , said I , 'try whether your master sleeps . 
The servant approached the sofa where Lord Glenfallen lay . 
He leant his ear towards the head of the recumbent figure , to ascertain whether the sound of breathing was audible . 
The man then , in obedience to my command , turned the body round , and , gracious God ! what a sight met my view . 
He was , indeed , perfectly dead . 
The whole breast of the shirt , with its lace frill , was drenched with gore , as was the couch underneath the spot where he lay . 
The head hung back , as it seemed , almost severed from the body by a frightful gash , which yawned across the throat . 
The instrument which had inflicted it was found under his body . 
All , then , was over I was never to learn the history in whose termination I had been so deeply and so tragically involved . 
The severe discipline which my mind had undergone was not bestowed in vain . 
I directed my thoughts and my hopes to that place where there is no more sin , nor danger , nor sorrow . 
AN ADVENTURE OF HARDRESS FITZGERALD , A ROYALIST CAPTAIN . 
Being an Eleventh Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
I heard much at different times of the intentions of King James and his party , but nothing with certainty . 
I have paid my reckoning , and now desire to go forth . 
He quickly replied 'You are Hardress Fitzgerald , the bloody popish captain , that hanged the twelve men at Derry . 
I felt that I was in some danger , but being a strong man , and used to perils of all kinds , it was not easy to disconcert me . 
'Then drink the honest man's toast , said he . 
'Damnation to the pope , and confusion to skulking Jimmy and his runaway crew . 
'Yourself shall hear me , said I , taking the largest pewter pot that lay within my reach . 
'Tapster , fill this with ale I grieve to say I can afford nothing better . 
I opened the door , but one of the dragoons drew his sabre , and ran at me to avenge his companion . 
With my hand I put aside the blade of the sword , narrowly escaping what he had intended for me , the point actually tearing open my vest . 
It was well for me that the rest were half drunk , and the evening dark for otherwise my folly would infallibly have cost me my life . 
As it was , I reached my garret in safety , with a resolution to frequent taverns no more until better times . 
The army of the Prince of Orange was said to be rapidly approaching the town , in order to commence the siege . 
I left Dublin upon a Friday morning in the month of September , with a tolerably heavy pack upon my back . 
I did not travel directly to Limerick , but turned far into Tipperary , going near to the borders of Cork . 
This way was to cross the Shannon at O'Brien's Bridge , or at Killaloe , into the county of Clare . 
, that I continually fell over fragments of rock and stumbled up to my middle into the rivulet , which I sought to follow . 
I was so surprised at this rencontre that I stopped short , and for a time was in doubt whether to turn back or to accost them . 
A minute's thought satisfied me that I ought to make up to the fellows , and trust to their good faith for whatever assistance they could give me . 
'God save you , boys ! said I , advancing towards the party . 
My account did not seem fully to satisfy the men . 
I heard one fellow say in Irish , which language I understood , 'Maybe he is a spy . 
He then turned back to them with whom he had been whispering , and talked in a low tone again with them for a considerable time . 
I now felt very uncomfortable , not knowing what these savages for they appeared nothing better might design against me . 
I therefore patiently awaited the issue of their deliberations , which I made no doubt affected me nearly . 
I have neither money nor money's worth , for the sake of which you should do me hurt . 
You may have my pack and all that it contains , if you desire it but do not injure me . 
To all this they gave no answer , but savagely desired me to hold my tongue . 
Into this inauspicious apartment was I conducted by my strange companions . 
His attitude betokened the languor of fatigue . 
His left hand was buried beyond the lace ruffle in the breast of his cassock , and the elbow of his right rested upon the table , so as to support his head . 
From his mouth protruded a tobacco pipe , which as I entered he slowly withdrew . 
You do not recognise Captain Hardress Fitzgerald ! 'Eh , how's this ? said he , approaching me with the light . 
At the same time I turned aside the hair which covered the scar which you well know upon my forehead , and which was then much more remarkable than it is now . 
The general's horse was stabled in a corner of the chamber where we sat , and his war saddle lay upon the floor . 
Close by the fire was strewed a bed of heath , intended , I supposed , for the stalwart limbs of the general . 
Here he paused for some moments . 
In a righteous cause I fear not wounds or death and in discharging my duty to my God and my king , I am ready for any hazard or any fate . 
Name the service you require , and if it lies within the compass of my wit or power , I will fully and faithfully perform it . 
Have I said enough ? 'That is well , very well , my friend you speak well , and manfully , replied the general . 
And if they go to question you with thumb screws , or the like , answer nothing let them knock your brains out first . 
In illustration , I suppose , of the latter alternative , he knocked the ashes out of his pipe upon the table as he uttered it . 
'The packet , he continued , 'you shall have to morrow morning . 
Meantime comfort yourself with food , and afterwards with sleep you will want , mayhap , all your strength and wits on the morrow . 
I applied myself forthwith to the homely fare which they had provided , and I confess that I never made a meal so heartily to my satisfaction . 
As I descended the hill , my heart expanded and my spirits rose under the influences which surrounded me . 
As I approached the object of my early march , I fell in with a countryman , eager , as are most of his kind , for news . 
With a resolution , at all events , to make the attempt to cross , I approached the town . 
I stopped then , upon a slight eminence overlooking the village , with a view to reconnoitre and to arrange my plans in case of interruption . 
As I approached the hamlet , I was glad to see in the window of a poor hovel several large cakes of meal displayed , as if to induce purchasers to enter . 
The ominous clank of sword scabbards and the jingle of brass accoutrements announced , unequivocally , that the horsemen were of the military profession . 
If you desire to avoid them , I can hide you safely but don't lose a moment . 
They will be here before you can count a hundred . 
I therefore declined her offer , and awaited in suspense the entrance of the soldiers . 
As my hostess had anticipated , the horsemen drew up at the door of the hut , and five dragoons entered the dark chamber where I awaited them . 
Leaving their horses at the entrance , with much noise and clatter they proceeded to seat themselves and call for liquor . 
I therefore , quietly taking up my hat and shaking the ashes out of it , observed 'Sir , I crave your pardon if I have offended you . 
'And what may your trade be ? said the same fellow . 
'I am a travelling merchant , I replied 'and sell my wares as cheap as any trader in the country . 
'Let us see them forthwith , said he 'mayhap I or my comrades may want something which you can supply . 
, 'ready money , and good weight , and sound metal none of your rascally pinchbeck . 
Eh , my lads ? Bring forth the goods , and let us see . 
'A pair of lace ruffles , by the Lord ! said one , unceremoniously seizing upon the articles he named . 
'You shall come with me to head quarters the captain will deal with you , and never haggle about the price . 
I promise thee his good will , and thou wilt consider me accordingly . 
You'll find him a profitable customer he has money without end , and throws it about like a gentleman . 
If so be as I tell thee , I shall expect , and my comrades here , a piece or two in the way of a compliment but of this anon . 
Come , then , with us buckle on thy pack quickly , friend . 
They reined up their horses at the head of the long bridge , which at this village spans the broad waters of the Shannon connecting the opposite counties of Tipperary and Clare . 
As soon as I saw his face my heart sank within me , and I knew that my life or death was balanced , as it were , upon a razor's edge . 
It was too late now to destroy General Sarsfield's instructions any attempt to do so would ensure detection . 
All then depended upon a cast of the die . 
May he exhibit the goods he has for sale , an't please you ? 'Ay , let us see them , said he . 
'Unbuckle your pack , exclaimed the corporal , with the same tone of command with which , at the head of his guard , he would have said 'Recover your arms . 
'Unbuckle your pack , fellow , and show your goods to the captain here , where you are . 
As I continued to traffic with these gentlemen , I observed with no small anxiety the eyes of Captain Oliver frequently fixed upon me with a kind of dubious inquiring gaze . 
'I think , my honest fellow , he said at last , 'that I have seen you somewhere before this . 
Have you often dealt with the military ? 'I have traded , sir , said I , 'with the soldiery many a time , and always been honourably treated . 
Will your worship please to buy a pair of lace ruffles ? very cheap , your worship . 
'Why do you wear your hair so much over your face , sir ? said Oliver , without noticing my suggestion . 
'I promise you , I think no good of thee throw back your hair , and let me see thee plainly . 
Hold up your face , and look straight at me throw back your hair , sir . 
I saw that he knew me instantly , for his countenance turned as pale as ashes with surprise and hatred . 
He said in a kind of whisper 'Hardress Fitzgerald ? 'Yes said I , boldly , for the excitement of the scene had effectually stirred my blood , 'Hardress Fitzgerald is before you . 
I know you well , Captain Oliver . 
I know how you hate me . 
I know how you thirst for my blood but in a good cause , and in the hands of God , I defy you . 
'Secure the papers ! shouted the captain and almost instantly I was laid prostrate and senseless upon the floor , by a blow from the butt of a carbine . 
I was chilled with cold and damp , and drenched in blood , which had flowed in large quantities from the wound on my head . 
By a strong effort I shook off the sick drowsiness which still hung upon me , and , weak and giddy , I rose with pain and difficulty to my feet . 
My first impulse was naturally to examine the security of the door , the loop hole which I have mentioned being too high and too narrow to afford a chance of escape . 
I listened attentively to ascer tain if possible whether or not a guard had been placed upon the outside . 
Not a sound was to be heard . 
I now placed my shoulder to the door , and sought with all my combined strength and weight to force it open . 
It , however , resisted all my efforts , and thus baffled in my appeal to mere animal power , exhausted and disheartened , I threw myself on the ground . 
It was not in my nature , however , long to submit to the apathy of despair , and in a few minutes I was on my feet again . 
With patient scrutiny I endeavoured to ascertain the nature of the fastenings which secured the door . 
The planks , fortunately , having been nailed together fresh , had shrunk considerably , so as to leave wide chinks between each and its neighbour . 
All the gold of Plutus would not have been so welcome as that rusty piece of iron . 
With some squeezing I succeeded in forcing my way into a small passage , upon which my prison door opened . 
This led into a chamber somewhat more spacious than my cell , but still containing no furniture , and affording no means of escape to one so crippled with bonds as I was . 
Here I checked myself , for I heard voices in busy conversation in the next room . 
I stole softly to the door which separated the chamber in which I stood from that from which the voices proceeded . 
I had approached this door very softly , so that , my proximity being wholly unsuspected by the speakers within , the conversation continued without interruption . 
Planting myself close to the door , I applied my eye to one of the chinks which separated the boards , and thus obtained a full view of the chamber and its occupants . 
It was the very apartment into which I had been first conducted . 
The latter was reading a paper , which I made no doubt was the document with which I had been entrusted . 
'The fellow deserves it , no doubt' said the junior officer . 
'But , me thinks , considering our orders from head quarters , you deal somewhat too hastily . 
'Nephew , nephew , said Captain Oliver , 'you mistake the tenor of our orders . 
We were directed to conciliate the peasantry by fair and gentle treatment , but not to suffer spies and traitors to escape . 
This packet is of some value , though not , in all its parts , intelligible to me . 
The bearer has made his way hither under a disguise , which , along with the other circumstances of his appearance here , is sufficient to convict him as a spy . 
Pshaw ! he is sufficiently punished if you duck him , for ten minutes or so , between the bridge and the mill dam . 
Captain Oliver at length resumed 'I know the villain well . 
I know him capable of any crime but , by , his last card is played , and the game is up . 
He shall not see the moon rise to night . 
There was here another pause . 
Oliver rose , and going to the outer door , called 'Hewson ! Hewson ! A grim looking corporal entered . 
'Hewson , have your guard ready at eight o'clock , with their carbines clean , and a round of ball cartridge each . 
Keep them sober and , further , plant two upright posts at the near end of the bridge , with a cross one at top , in the manner of a gibbet . 
See to these matters , Hewson I shall be with you speedily . 
The corporal made his salutations , and retired . 
Hardress Fitzgerald , Hardress Fitzgerald , I will blot you out . 
I observed , however , that his face was deadly pale , and felt assured that his conscience and inward convictions were struggling against his cruel resolve . 
Without further comment the two officers left the room , I suppose to oversee the preparations which were being made for the deed of which I was to be the victim . 
A chill , sick horror crept over me as they retired , and I felt , for the moment , upon the brink of swooning . 
This feeling , however , speedily gave place to a sensation still more terrible . 
Gradually this fearful paroxysm passed away . 
I kneeled and prayed fervently , and felt comforted and assured but still I could not view the slow approaches of certain death without an agitation little short of agony . 
I have stood in battle many a time when the chances of escape were fearfully small . 
I have confronted foemen in the deadly breach . 
I have marched , with a constant heart , against the cannon's mouth . 
I returned again to the closet in which I had found myself upon recovering from the swoon . 
'Art thou awake , fellow ? said he , in a gruff voice . 
'Stir thyself get upon thy legs . 
His orders were enforced by no very gentle application of his military boot . 
'Friend , said I , rising with difficulty , 'you need not insult a dying man . 
You have been sent hither to conduct me to death . 
Lead on ! My trust is in God , that He will forgive me my sins , and receive my soul , redeemed by the blood of His Son . 
'Name your conditions , said I , 'and if they consist with honour , I will never balk at the offer . 
'Here they are you are to be shot to night , by Captain Oliver's orders . 
The carbines are cleaned for the job , and the cartridges served out to the men . 
By G , I tell you the truth ! Of this I needed not much persuasion , and intimated to the man my conviction that he spoke the truth . 
'Well , then , he continued , 'now for the means of avoiding this ugly business . 
Captain Oliver rides this night to head quarters , with the papers which you carried . 
Before he starts he will pay you a visit , to fish what he can out of you with all the fine promises he can make . 
Humour him a little , and when you find an opportunity , stab him in the throat above the cuirass . 
'A feasible plan , surely , said I , raising my shackled hands , 'for a man thus completely crippled and without a weapon . 
'I will manage all that presently for you , said the soldier . 
I am appointed to ride with Captain Oliver , and you will find me holding his horse and my own by the door . 
Mount quickly , and I will do the same , and then we will ride for our lives across the bridge . 
You will find the holster pistols loaded in case of pursuit and , with the devil's help , we shall reach Limerick without a hair hurt . 
With speed and promptitude he drew a small key from his pocket , and in an instant the manacles were removed from my hands . 
It is the only thing I could get , but I sharpened it myself it has an edge like a skean . 
He placed in my hand the steel head of a halberd . 
Here is the pitcher I think I have revived you sufficiently for the captain's purpose . 
With a low savage laugh he left me to my reflections . 
The time wore slowly on the dusk became dimmer and dimmer , until it nearly bordered on total darkness . 
'How's this ? said I , inwardly 'Captain Oliver , you said I should not see the moon rise to night . 
Methinks you are somewhat tardy in fulfilling your prophecy . 
As I made this reflection , a noise at the outer door announced the entrance of a visitant . 
As I had expected , Captain Oliver entered the room where I lay . 
This tallied exactly with what my strange informant had told me . 
I felt my heart swell and my breath come thick as the awful moment which was to witness the death struggle of one or other of us approached . 
'Hardress Fitzgerald , he began at length , 'are you awake ? Stand up , if you desire to hear of matters nearly touching your life or death . 
Get up , I say . 
'And if I do this I am to expect a mitigation of my punishment is it not so ? Oliver bowed . 
'Tis then time to talk of indulgences . 
'Methinks it would then be too late , answered I. 'But a chance is a chance , and a drowning man will catch at a straw . 
You are an honourable man , Captain Oliver . 
I must depend , I suppose , on your good faith . 
Well , sir , before I make the desired communication I have one question more to put . 
'Then God have mercy on your soul ! said I and springing forward , I dashed the weapon which I held at his throat . 
The point unfortunately struck the cuirass , near the neck , and glancing aside it inflicted but a flesh wound , tearing the skin and tendons along the throat . 
We fell together with a heavy crash , tugging and straining in what we were both conscious was a mortal struggle . 
I succeeded again in inflicting several more wounds upon him , any one of which might have been mortal . 
While thus contending he clutched his hands about my throat , so firmly that I felt the blood swelling the veins of my temples and face almost to bursting . 
Again and again I struck the weapon deep into his face and throat , but life seemed to adhere in him with an almost INSECT tenacity . 
It is hard to say , with what feelings I looked upon the unsightly and revolting mass which had so lately been a living and a comely man . 
With eager haste I removed from the body such of the military accoutrements as were necessary for the purpose of my disguise . 
The man again saluted , and in two steps I reached the soldier who held the two horses , as he had intimated . 
'Is all right ? said he , eagerly . 
'Stand , or I fire ! give the word ! cried the sentry . 
'God save the king , and to hell with the prince ! shouted I , flinging the cocked hat in his face as I galloped by . 
The response was the sharp report of a carbine , accompanied by the whiz of a bullet , which passed directly between me and my comrade , now riding beside me . 
'Hurrah ! I shouted 'try it again , my boy . 
And away we went at a gallop , which bid fair to distance anything like pursuit . 
Away we went , with our pursuers close behind one mile was passed , another nearly completed . 
The moon now shone forth , and , turning in the saddle , I looked back upon the road we had passed . 
One trooper had headed the rest , and was within a hundred yards of us . 
I saw the fellow throw himself from his horse upon the ground . 
I knew his object , and said to my comrade 'Lower your body lie flat over the saddle the fellow is going to fire . 
My first impulse was to stop and share whatever fate might await my comrade but my second and wiser one was to spur on , and save myself and my despatch . 
I rode on at a gallop , turning to observe my comrade's fate . 
I saw his pursuer , having remounted , ride rapidly up to him , and , on reaching the spot where the man and horse lay , rein in and dismount . 
Being a Twelfth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell , P. P. of Drumcoolagh . 
And far away with all their broad lights and shades , softened with the haze of approaching twilight , stood the bold wild Galties . 
Dressed in loveliness and laughter , there is mortal decay at thy heart sorrow , sin , and shame have mingled thy cup of misery . 
Strange rulers have bruised thee , and laughed thee to scorn , and they have made all thy sweetness bitter . 
Thy shames and sins are the austere fruits of thy miseries , and thy miseries have been poured out upon thee by foreign hands . 
In a moment my pursuer was up with me , and checking his steed into a walk he saluted me with much respect . 
My companion was a dealer in all kinds of local lore , and soon took occasion to let me see that he was so . 
'That's a comfortable bit iv a farm , observed my comrade , pointing towards the dwelling with his thumb 'a shnug spot , and belongs to the Mooneys this long time . 
'Tis a noted place for what happened wid the famous gandher there in former times . 
Sure every fool knows all about the gandher , and Terence Mooney , that was , rest his sowl . 
Begorra , 'tis surprisin' to me how in the world you didn't hear iv the gandher and may be it's funnin me ye are , your raverance . 
But unluckily he was blessed with an ilegant large family iv daughters , an' iv coorse his heart was allamost bruck , striving to make up fortunes for the whole of them . 
An' there wasn't a conthrivance iv any soart or description for makin' money out iv the farm , but he was up to . 
An' moreover he was very great wid ould Terence Mooney this man's father that' was . 
An' why so ? says Terence . 
Becase , says Jer , says he . 
Becase what ? says Terence . 
Well , says Terence , have your own way , says he . 
'An' wid that he tuck the ould gandher , an' giv' it to one iv the gossoons . 
An' take care , says he , don't smother the crathur , says he . 
'Well , as soon as the bird was gone , says Jer Garvan says he Do you know what that ould gandher IS , Terence Mooney ? Divil a taste , says Terence . 
Well then , says Jer , the gandher is your own father , says he . 
It's jokin' you are , says Terence , turnin' mighty pale how can an ould gandher be my father ? says he . 
I know him many ways , and I wondher , says he , you do not know the cock iv his eye yourself , says he . 
Thrue for you , says Terence , but how the divil did you come to the knowledge iv my father's sowl , says he , bein' in the owld gandher , says he . 
'Well , as the night was gettin' late , Terence was growin' mighty sorrowful an' down hearted in himself entirely wid the notions iv what was goin' to happen . 
'An' begorra , I have the medle myself an' it's proud I am iv that same , for abstamiousness is a fine thing , although it's mighty dhry . 
No , nor you , says Thady , turnin' as pale as himself , it's the ould gandher that's gruntin' wid the shakin' he's gettin' , says he . 
There's no use in purtending , says the boy , the gandher's spakin' , glory be to God , says he . 
Let me out , you murdherers , says Terence . 
In the name iv the blessed Vargin , says Thady , an' iv all the holy saints , hould yer tongue , you unnatheral gandher , says he . 
In the name iv all the blessed saints in heaven , says Thady , who the divil are ye ? Who the divil would I be , but Terence Mooney , says he . 
It's ould Terence , sure enough , says Thady , isn't it cute the fairy docthor found him out , says he . 
'An' his Raverince rode down to the bank of the river , close by , an' beginned to read mighty loud and bould intirely . 
Down they both went to the bottom , wid a souse you'd hear half a mile off . 
'An' as soon as Terence could spake , he swore he'd have the life of the two gossoons but Father Crotty would not give him his will . 
An' his Raverince said it was a mysthery , an' swore if he cotched anyone laughin' at the accident , he'd lay the horsewhip across their shouldhers . 
'An' to this day the farm is rinted by one iv Terence Mooney's lenial and legitimate postariors . 
BILLY MALOWNEY'S TASTE OF LOVE AND GLORY . 
Let the reader fancy a soft summer evening , the fresh dews falling on bush and flower . 
by a winding stream which , even through the mists of evening , catches and returns the funereal glories of the skies . 
'Leum a rinka' was the name they put on him , he was sich a beautiful dancer . 
Well , this was all pleasant enough , to be sure , while it lasted but inhuman beings is born to misfortune , an' Bill's divarshin was not to last always . 
without exposin' himself to the most eminent parril an' so signs all' what should happen Billy Malowney himself , but to fall in love at last wid little Molly Donovan , in Coolnamoe . 
I never could ondherstand why in the world it was Bill fell in love wid HER , above all the girls in the country . 
She was not within four stone weight iv being as fat as Peg Brallaghan and as for redness in the face , she could not hould a candle to Judy Flaherty . 
Well , now , he was raly stupid wid love there was not a bit of fun left in him . 
He was good for nothin' an airth bud sittin' under bushes , smokin' tobacky , and sighin' till you'd wonder how in the world he got wind for it all . 
But it was all iv no use . 
The toothache an' cholic together id compose you betther for an argyment than itself . 
It leaves you fit for nothin' bud nansinse . 
It's stronger than whisky , for one good drop iv it will make you drunk for one year , and sick , begorra , for a dozen . 
But lovers has quarrels sometimes , and , begorra , when they do , you'd a'most imagine they hated one another like man and wife . 
'I'm thinking so myself , says the gineral , says he 'but he's a tough bye , says he . 
'Tough ! says Bonypart , 'he's the divil , says he . 
'Begorra , I'd be better plased . 
says the gineral , says he , 'to take himself than the Duke iv Willinton , says he , 'an' Sir Edward Blakeney into the bargain , says he . 
So away with the gineral , an' he ordhers out the forlorn hope , all' tells the band to play , an' everything else , just as Bonypart desired him . 
An' sure enough the Frinch was overjoyed beyant all bounds , an' small blame to them an' the Duke of Wellington , I'm toult , was never all out the same man sinst . 
At any rate , the news kem home how Billy Malowney was murdhered by the Frinch in furrin parts . 
An' though her father and mother was nathurally anxious to get rid of her respickably , they did not like to marry her off in spite iv her teeth . 
It was a beautiful evenin' , just at the time iv the reapin' iv the oats , and the sun was shinin' through the red clouds far away over the hills iv Cahirmore . 
In a minute he was through the hedge and standing before her . 
'Mavourneen cuishla machree ! says he and without another word they were locked in one another's arms . 
to marry herself in spite iv them all . 
'Oh , blessed hour ! says Molly , 'here's my father . 
'I'll spake to him this minute , says Bill . 
'Oh , not for the world , says she 'he's singin' the Colleen Rue , says she , 'and no one dar raison with him , says she . 
'Thry the pig sty , says she , 'mavourneen , says she , 'in the name iv God , says she . 
'Well , darlint , says he , 'for your sake , says he , 'I'll condescend to them animals , says he . 
'Och ! blur an' agers , says he , 'there is not room for a suckin' pig , says he , 'let alone a Christian , says he . 
'I'll do your biddin' , says he , 'Molly asthore , says he . 
'Run in thin , says she , 'an' I'll go an' meet them , says she . 
So he closed the doore , and sot down in an ould chair he found there convanient . 
An' so you may suppose it was pretty late in the night before all iv them got to their beds . 
An' at last says he 'I onderstand , says he , 'very well how it is , says he . 
'Ah ! says the wife , says she , 'Tim darlint , don't be cursin' them that's dead an' buried , says she . 
'An' why would not I , says he , 'if they desarve it ? says he . 
'Whisht , says she , 'an' listen to that , says she . 
'In the name of the Blessed Vargin , says she , 'what IS it ? says she . 
An' sure enough what was it but Bill Malowney that was dhroppin' asleep in the closet , an' snorin' like a church organ . 
'Whatever it is , says he , 'it's in the room wid us , says he . 
'The Lord be marciful to us ! says he . 
'I tould you not to be cursin' , says she 'bad luck to you , says she , 'for an ommadhaun ! for she was a very religious woman in herself . 
An' with that away wid him , an' the wife kep' workin' the beads all the time , an' before he kem back Bill was snorin' as loud as ever . 
'Oh ! bloody wars I mane the blessed saints about us ! that deadly sound , says he 'it's going on as lively as ever , says he . 
'I'm as wake as a rag , says his wife , says she , 'wid the fair anasiness , says she . 
'It's out iv the little closet it's comin , says she . 
'Say your prayers , says he , 'an' hould your tongue , says he , 'while I discoorse it , says he . 
'An' who are ye , says he , 'in the name iv of all the holy saints ? says he , givin' the door a dab iv a crusheen that wakened Bill inside . 
'I ax , says he , 'who are you ? says he . 
Well , the wife let a screech you'd hear at the mill iv Killraghlin , an' 'Oh , says she , 'the spirit has him , body an' bones ! says she . 
Bridget oh , Mother iv Marcy oh , Father O'Flaherty ! says she , screechin' murdher from out iv her bed . 
'What do ye mane , you uncivilised bliggard ? says his raverance . 
'Is that a venerable way , says he , 'to approach your clargy ? says he . 
'Hould your tongue , says Bill , 'an' I'll do ye no harum , says he . 
'Who are you , ye scoundhrel iv the world ? says his raverance . 
'Whisht ! says he ? 'I'm Billy Malowney , says he . 
'You lie , says he 'but for feared it's the truth you're tellin' , says he , 'here's at ye in the name iv all the blessed saints together ! says he . 
An' so , begorra , they never stopt till it was all settled an' there was not sich a weddin' as that in the counthry sinst . 
It's more than forty years ago , an' though I was no more nor a gossoon myself , I remimber it like yestherday . 
