POLLY OF THE CIRCUS BY MARGARET MAYO To My KLEINE MUTTER Chapter I The band of the Great American Circus was playing noisily . 
The performance was in full swing . 
Her eyes had been so long accustomed to the glitter and tinsel of circus fineries that she saw nothing unusual in a picture that might have held a painter spellbound . 
The scent of moist earth mingled oddly with the perfumed odours of the garments heaped on the grass . 
There were no nails or hooks , so hats and veils were pinned to the canvas walls . 
The furniture was limited to one camp chair in front of each trunk , the till of which served as a tray for the paints , powders and other essentials of make up . 
Some of these had been washed to night and hung to dry on the lines between the dusty street garments . 
Women whose turns came late sat about half clothed reading , crocheting or sewing , while others added pencilled eyebrows , powder or rouge to their already exaggerated make ups . 
Here and there a child was putting her sawdust baby to sleep in the till of her trunk , before beginning her part in the evening's entertainment . 
What do you think about it , Polly ? asked a handsome brunette , as she surveyed herself in the costume of a Roman charioteer . 
About what ? asked Polly vacantly . 
She tossed her head , the pride of class distinction welling high in her ample bosom . 
She was Polly's understudy and next in line for the star place in the bill . 
Well , Barker has put her into the 'Leap of Death' stunt , ain't he ? continued the brunette . 
No danger of that , sneered the blonde Barker is too old a stager to mix up his sheep and his goats . 
Polly had again lost the thread of the conversation . 
Her eyes had met Polly's , with a look of appeal that had gone straight to the child's simple heart . 
What matter ? The few dollars earned in this way would mean a great deal to the mother , whom the girl's marriage had left desolate . 
Polly had looked on hungrily the night that the mother had taken the daughter in her arms to say farewell in the little country town where the circus had played before her marriage . 
She could remember no woman's arms about HER , for it was fourteen years since tender hands had carried her mother from the performers' tent into the moonlit lot to die . 
There were tears from those who watched , but no word was spoken . 
Clown Toby and the big boss canvas man Jim had always taken turns amusing and guarding little Polly , while her mother rode in the ring . 
Uncle Toby was entrusted with the brown satchel in which the mother had always carried Polly's scanty wardrobe . 
It seemed to these two men that the eyes of the woman were fixed steadily upon them . 
Polly wondered , at these times , why the old man's stories were so suddenly cut short just as she was so comfy in the soft grass at his feet . 
The boys who used to look sharp because of their boss at loading time , now learned that they might loiter so long as Muvver Jim was hikin' it round for the kid . 
It was Polly who had dubbed big Jim Muvver , and the sobriquet had stuck to him in spite of his six feet two , and shoulders that an athlete might have envied . 
Jim and Toby had been neglectin' her eddication they declared , and from that time on , the blood of Polly's ancestors was given full encouragement . 
Barker was quick to grasp the advantage of adding the kid to the daily parade . 
From the street parade to Polly's first appearance in the big top , had seemed a short while to Jim and Toby . 
They were proud to see her circling the ring in bright colours and to hear the cheers of the people , but a sense of loss was upon them . 
I always said she'd do it , cried Barker , who now took upon himself the credit of Polly's triumph . 
And what a triumph it was ! Polly danced as serenely on Bingo's back as she might have done on the concert boards . 
She swayed gracefully with the music . 
Her tiny sandals twinkled as she stood first upon one foot and then upon the other . 
The performers crowded around the girl with outstretched hands and congratulations , as she came out of the ring to cheers and applause . 
But Big Jim stood apart . 
They were not philosophers to reason like Emerson , that for everything we lose we gain something they were simple souls , these two , they could only feel . 
He was as blind to the picturesque outdoor life as she to her indoor surroundings , for he , too , had been with the circus since his earliest recollection . 
The grass enclosure , where he waited , was shut in by a circle of tents and wagons . 
The gay striped curtains at the rear of the tent were looped back to give air to the panting musicians , who sat just inside . 
Through the opening , a glimpse of the audience might be had , tier upon tier , fanning and shifting uneasily . 
Here and there stood unhitched chariots , half filled trunks , trapeze tackle , paper hoops , stake pullers or other properties necessary to the show . 
Torches flamed at the tent entrances , while oil lamps and lanterns gave light for the loading of the wagons . 
There was a constant stream of life shooting in and out from the dressing tent to the big top , as gaily decked men , women and animals came or went . 
Drowsy dogs were stretched under the wagons , waiting their turn to be dressed as lions or bears . 
Ambitious canvas men and grooms were exercising , feet in air , in the hope of some day getting into the performers' ring . 
Property men stole a minute's sleep in the soft warm grass while they waited for more tackle to load in the wagons . 
Children of the performers were swinging on the tent ropes , chattering monkeys sat astride the Shetland ponies , awaiting their entrance to the ring . 
The shrieks of the hyenas in the distant animal tent , the roaring of the lions and the trumpeting of the elephants mingled with the incessant clamour of the band . 
Jim's eyes turned absently toward the church as he sat fumbling with the lock of the little brown satchel . 
Only the desperation of a last moment had forced him to decide upon the imitation alligator bag , which he now held in his hand . 
He was big hearted enough to be glad that Toby's gift seemed finer and more useful than his . 
She would be out in a minute , and these wonders were not to be revealed to her until the close of the night's performance . 
Jim put down the lid of the trunk and sat upon it , feeling like a criminal because he was hiding something from Polly . 
It had taken a great many apologies and promises as to their future behaviour to calm her , and now they had again disobeyed her . 
It would be a great relief when to night's ordeal was over . 
Jim watched Polly uneasily as she came from the dressing tent and stopped to gaze at the nearby church steeple . 
The incongruity of the slang , that soon came from her delicately formed lips , was lost upon him as she turned her eyes toward him . 
One of the grooms was entering the lot with Polly's horse . 
She stooped to tighten one of her sandals , and as she rose , Jim saw her sway slightly and put one hand to her head . 
He looked at her sharply , remembering her faintness in the parade that morning . 
You ain't feeling right , he said uneasily . 
You just bet I am , Polly answered with an independent toss of her head . 
You bin ridin' too reckless lately , said Jim , sternly , as he followed her . 
There ain't no need of your puttin' in all them extra stunts . 
Your act is good enough without 'em . 
Nobody else ever done 'em , an' nobody'd miss 'em if you left 'em out . 
Polly turned with a triumphant ring in her voice . 
The music was swelling for her entrance . 
You ain't my MOTHER , Jim , you're my GRANDmother , she taunted and , with a crack of her whip she was away on Bingo's back . 
It's the spirit of the dead one that's got into her , Jim mumbled as he turned away , still seeing the flash in the departing girl's eyes . 
Chapter III Polly and Bingo always made the audience sit up when they swept into the ring . 
She was so young , so gaily clad , so light and joyous in all her poses . 
She seemed scarcely to touch the back of the white horse , as they dashed round the ring in the glare of the tent lights . 
The other performers went through their work mechanically while Polly rode , for they knew the audience was watching her only . 
As for Polly , her work had never lost its first interest . 
With each change of her act , the audience cheered and frantically applauded . 
The band played faster Bingo's pace increased the end of her turn was coming . 
The tumblers arranged themselves around the ring with paper hoops Bingo was fairly racing . 
She went through the first hoop with a crash of tearing paper and cheers from the audience . 
Heigh , Bingo ! she shouted , as she bent her knees to make ready for the final leap . 
He had never gone so fast before . 
Toby forgot to go on with his accustomed tricks . 
Jim watched anxiously from the entrance . 
The paper of one hoop was still left unbroken . 
The attendant turned his eyes to glance at the oncoming girl the hoop shifted slightly in his clumsy hand as Polly leapt straight up from Bingo's back , trusting to her first calculation . 
Her forehead struck the edge of the hoop . 
She clutched wildly at the air . 
Bingo galloped on , and she fell to the ground , striking her head against the iron bound stake at the edge of the ring . 
There was a gasp of horror the musicians dropped their instruments Bingo halted and looked back uneasily she lay unconscious and seemingly lifeless . 
A great cry went up in the tent . 
Panic stricken , men , women and children began to clamber down from their seats , while others nearest the ground attempted to jump into the ring . 
Barker , still grasping his long whip , rushed to the girl's side , and shouted wildly to Toby Say something , you . 
Get 'em back ! Old Toby turned his white face to the crowd , his features worked convulsively , but he could not speak . 
His grief was so grotesque , that the few who saw him laughed hysterically . 
He could not even go to Polly , his feet seemed pinned to the earth . 
Jim rushed into the tent at the first cry of the audience . 
He lifted the limp form tenderly , and kneeling in the ring held her bruised head in his hands . 
Can't you get a doctor ! he shouted desperately to Barker . 
Here's the doctor ! some one called and a stranger came toward them . 
He bent over the seemingly lifeless form , his fingers on the tiny wrist , his ear to the heart . 
Well , sir ? Jim faltered , for he had caught the puzzled look in the doctor's eyes as his deft hand pressed the cruelly wounded head . 
I can't tell just yet , said the doctor . 
She must be taken away . 
Where can we take her ? asked Jim , a look of terror in his great , troubled eyes . 
The parsonage is the nearest house , said the doctor . 
I am sure the pastor will be glad to have her there until we can find out how badly she is hurt . 
In an instant Barker was back in the centre of the ring . 
Jim , blind with despair , lifted the light burden and staggered out of the tent , while the band played furiously and the people fell back into their seats . 
The Roman chariots thundered and clattered around the outside of the ring , the audience cheered the winner of the race , and for the moment Polly was forgotten . 
Chapter IV THE blare of the circus band had been a sore temptation to Mandy Jones all afternoon and evening . 
Again and again it had dragged her from her work to the study window , from which she could see the wonders so tantalisingly near . 
Mandy was housekeeper for the Rev . 
And yet , in spite of her own curiosity , she could not forgive her vagrant worse half , Hasty , who had been lured from duty early in the day . 
She had once dubbed him Hasty , in a spirit of derision , and the name had clung to him . 
The sarcasm seemed doubly appropriate to night , for he had been away since ten that morning , and it was now past nine . 
Mandy renewed her operations at the window with increased vigour when the pastor had gone . 
Foh de Lor' sake ! Mandy gasped , as she stood panting for breath and blinking at the pretty , young , apple faced Julia I was suah most gone dat time . 
Then followed another outburst against the delinquent Hasty . 
But the deacon's daughter did not hear her eyes were already wandering anxiously to the lights and the tinsel of the little world beyond the window . 
This was not the first time to day that Mandy had found herself talking to space . 
There had been a steady stream of callers at the parsonage since eleven that morning , but she had long ago confided to the pastor that she suspected their reasons . 
The women were protesting because their choir practice of What Shall the Harvest Be ? had been interrupted by the unrequested acompaniment sic of the hoochie coochie from the nearby circus band . 
It's scandalous ! Miss Perkins snapped . 
Scandalous ! And SOMEBODY ought to stop it . 
Well , I'm sure I'VE done all that I could , piped the widow , with a meek , martyred air . 
She considered it an appropriate attitude for a widow . 
He can't blame ME if the choir is out of key to morrow . 
It's shocking ! I must go to her . 
Ma , let me see , too , begged Willie , as he tugged at his mother's skirts . 
Miss Perkins was certainly taking a long while for her argument with Julia . 
The glow from the red powder outside the window was positively alarming . 
Dear me ! she said , I wonder if there can be a fire . 
And with this pretext for investigation , she , too , joined the little group at the window . 
A few moments later when Douglas entered for a fresh supply of paper , the backs of the company were toward him . 
He crossed to the study table without disturbing his visitors , and smiled to himself at the eager way in which they were hanging out of the window . 
Douglas was a sturdy young man of eight and twenty , frank and boyish in manner , confident and light hearted in spirit . 
He intended to quit the room now unnoticed , but was unfortunate enough to upset a chair as he turned from the table . 
This brought a chorus of exclamations from the women , who chattering rushed quickly toward him . 
What do you think of my naughty boy , Willie ? simpered the widow . 
He dragged me quite to the window . 
She jerked her hand in the direction of the window . 
The band was again playing the hoochie coochie . 
Never mind about the choir practice , said Douglas , with a smile . 
It is SOUL not SKILL that our congregation needs in its music . 
As for that music out there , it is NOT without its compensations . 
Why , the small boys would rather hear that band than the finest church organ in the world . 
And the SMALL BOYS would rather see the circus than to hear you preach , most likely , snapped Miss Perkins . 
It was adding insult to injury for him to try to CONSOLE her . 
Of course they would and so would some of the grown ups if they'd only tell the truth about it , said Douglas , laughing . 
What ! exclaimed Miss Perkins . 
Why not ? asked Douglas . 
I am sure I don't know what they do inside the tents , but the parade looked very promising . 
The PARADE ! the two women echoed in one breath . 
Did YOU see the parade ? Yes , indeed , said Douglas , enthusiastically . 
But it didn't compare with the one I saw at the age of eight . 
He turned his head to one side and looked into space with a reminiscent smile . 
The widow's red haired boy crept close to him . 
Did you seed inside de tent ? Willie asked , eagerly . 
I didn't have enough money for that , Douglas answered , frankly . 
He turned to the small boy and pinched his ear . 
There was sad disappointment in the youngster's face , but he brightened again , when the parson confessed that he peeped . 
A parson peeping ! cried the thin lipped Miss Perkins . 
I was not a parson then , corrected Douglas , good naturedly . 
You were GOING to be , persisted the spinster . 
I had to be a boy first , in spite of that fact . 
The sudden appearance of Hasty proved a diversion . 
He was looking very sheepish . 
Hyar he is , Mars John look at him ! said Mandy . 
Hasty , where have you been all day ? demanded Douglas , severely . 
Hasty fumbled with his hat and sparred for time . 
Did yo' say whar's I been , sah ? Dat's what he done ast yo' , Mandy prompted , threateningly . 
I bin 'ceived , Mars John , declared Hasty , solemnly . 
Mars John , did yo' ebber seed an' el'phant drink ? he asked , rolling his eyes . 
Well , sah , he jes' put dat trunk a'his'n into de pail , jes' once an swish water gone . 
Douglas laughed and Mandy muttered , sullenly . 
Well , sah , continued Hasty , I tote water fo' dem el'phants all day long , an' when I cum roun' to see de circus , de gemmen won't let me in . 
An' when I try to crawl under de tent , dey pulls me out by de laigs an' beats me . 
He looked from one to the other expecting sympathy . 
Serves you right , was Mandy's unfeeling reply . 
If yo's so anxious to be a totin' water , jes' yo' come along outside and tote some fo' Mandy . 
I can't do no mo' carryin' , Mandy , protested Hasty . 
I'se hurted in mah arm . 
What hurt yo' ? Tiger . 
A tiger ? exclaimed the women in unison . 
Done chawed it mos' off , he declared , solemnly . 
Deacon Elverson , he seed it , an' he says I's hurt bad . 
Deacon Elverson ? cried the spinster . 
Was Deacon Elverson at the circus ? He was in de lot , a tryin' to look in , same as me , Hasty answered , innocently . 
You'd better take Hasty into the kitchen , said Douglas to Mandy , with a dry smile he's talking too much for a wounded man . 
Mandy disappeared with the disgraced Hasty , advising him with fine scorn to get de tiger to chew off his laigs , so's he wouldn't have to walk no mo' . 
The women gazed at each other with lips closed tightly . 
Elverson's behaviour was beyond their power of expression . 
He glanced nervously from one set face to the other , then coughed behind his hat , We're all very much interested in the circus , said Douglas . 
Can't you tell us about it ? I just went into the lot to look for my son , stammered the deacon . 
I feared Peter had strayed . 
Why , deacon , said Mrs. Willoughby . 
I just stopped by your house and saw Mrs. Elverson putting Peter to bed . 
The deacon was saved from further embarrassment by an exclamation from Julia , who had stayed at the window . 
Oh , look something has happened ! she cried . 
They are coming this way . 
Douglas crossed quickly to Julia's side , and saw an excited mob collecting before the entrance to the main tent . 
He had time to discover no more before Mandy burst in at the door , panting with excitement and rolling her large , white rimmed eyeballs . 
Mars John , a little circus girl done fall off her hoss ! she cried . 
Hartley say can dey bring her in heah ? Of course , said Douglas , hurrying outside . 
There were horrified exclamations from the women , who were aghast at the idea of a circus rider in the parsonage . 
In their helpless indignation , they turned upon the little deacon , feeling intuitively that he was enjoying the drama . 
Elverson was retreating toward the door when he was suddenly thrust aside by Douglas . 
In the young pastor's arms was a white , spangled burden of humanity , her slender arm hung lifeless over his shoulder . 
The silk stocking was torn from one bruised ankle her hair fell across her face , veiling it from the unfriendly glances of the women . 
Douglas passed out of sight up the stairway without looking to the right or left , followed by the doctor . 
Mandy reached the front door in time to push back a crowd of intruders . 
She had barely closed the door when it was thrust open by Jim . 
Where is she ? he demanded . 
Go 'way f'um here ! cried Mandy , as her eyes unconsciously sought the stairs . 
Jim followed the direction of her glance , and cleared the steps at a bound . 
Mandy pursued him , muttering angrily . 
Deacon Elverson , too , was about to follow , when a grim reminder from Miss Perkins brought him around and he made for the door instead . 
In one hand he carried a small leather satchel in the other a girl's sailor hat a little tan coat was thrown across his arm . 
The giggles of the boy hiding behind his mother's skirt were the only greetings received by the trembling old man in the doorway . 
He glanced uncertainly from one unfriendly face to the other , waiting for a word of invitation to enter but none came . 
Excuse me , he said I just brought some of her little things . 
She'd better put on her coat when she goes out . 
He looked again into the blank faces still no one spoke . 
He stepped forward , trembling with anxiety . 
A sudden fear clutched at his heart , the muscles of his face worked pitifully , the red painted lips began to quiver . 
It ain't It ain't that , is it ? he faltered , unable to utter the word that filled him with horror . 
Even Miss Perkins was momentarily touched by the anguish in the old man's voice . 
He was careful not to wrinkle the coat , for this was Polly's birthday gift . 
Well , if dar ain't anudder one , she cried . 
You can take these upstairs , he told her , when he had filled the pitcher with water and found the liquor . 
Mandy looked threateningly at Toby , then reluctantly went on her way . 
Douglas turned to the old man pleasantly . 
His was the first greeting that Toby had received , and he at last found voice to ask whether Polly was badly hurt . 
The doctor hasn't told us yet , said Douglas , kindly . 
I'm her Uncle Toby not her REAL uncle , the old man explained , but that's what she calls me . 
I couldn't come out right away , because I'm on in the concert . 
Could I see her now , please ? Here's the doctor , said Douglas , as Hartley came down the stairs , followed by Jim . 
She's going to get well . 
Probably several months , said the doctor . 
No bones are broken , but the ligaments of one ankle are torn , and she received a bad blow on the head . 
It will be some time before she recovers consciousness . 
What are we goin' to do , Jim ? asked Toby , helplessly . 
You needn't worry , we'll take good care of her here , said Douglas , seeing desperation written on their faces . 
Here ? They looked at him incredulously . 
And this was a parson ! Where are her parents ? the doctor asked , looking at Jim and Toby . 
She ain't got no parents 'cept Toby an' me , replied Jim . 
We've took care of her ever since she was a baby . 
Oh , I see , said the doctor . 
Well , one of you'd better stay here until she can be moved . 
That's the trouble we can't , said Toby , hanging his head . 
You see , sir , circus folks is like soldiers . 
No matter what happens , the show has to go on , and we got to be in our places . 
Well , well , she'll be safe enough , here , said the doctor . 
It is a fortunate thing that Mr. Douglas can manage this . 
Our town hospital burned down a few months ago , and we've been rather puzzled as to what to do with such cases . 
He took his leave with a cheery Good night , and a promise to look in upon the little patient later . 
Jim shuffled awkwardly toward the pastor . 
It's mighty good of you to do this , he mumbled , but she ain't goin' to be no charity patient . 
Me and Toby is goin' to look after her keep . 
Her wants will be very few , Douglas answered , kindly . 
You needn't trouble much about that . 
I mean it , said Jim , savagely . 
He met Douglas's glance of surprise with a determined look , for he feared that his chance of being useful to Polly might be slipping out of his life . 
You mustn't mind Jim , the clown pleaded at the pastor's elbow . 
You see pain gets some folks different from others and it always kinder makes him savage . 
Oh , that's all right , Douglas answered , quickly . 
His own life had been so lonely , that he could understand the selfish yearning in the big man's heart . 
You must do what you think best about these things Mandy and I will look after the rest . 
Jim hung his head , feeling somehow that the pastor had seen straight into his heart and discovered his petty weakness . 
He was about to turn toward the door when it was thrown open by Barker . 
Where is she ? shouted the manager , looking from one to the other . 
She can't come , said Jim in a low , steady voice , for he knew the storm of opposition with which Barker would meet the announcement . 
Can't come ? shrieked Barker . 
I can't get along without her . 
He looked at Jim , who remained silent and firm . 
WHY ain't she comin' ? he asked , feeling himself already defeated . 
She's hurt bad , was Jim's laconic reply . 
The devil she is ! said Barker , looking at Douglas for confirmation . 
Is that right ? She won't be able to travel for some time , said Douglas . 
Mr. Barker is our manager , Toby explained , as he edged his way to the pastor's side . 
Some time ! Barker looked at Douglas as though he were to blame for their misfortune . 
Well , you just bet she will , he declared menacingly . 
See here , Barker , don't you talk to him like that , said Jim , facing the manager . 
He's darned square even if he is a parson . 
He was not a bad hearted man , but he was irritated and upset at losing the star feature of his bill . 
Ain't this my dod gasted luck ? he muttered to himself , as his eye again travelled to the boss canvas man . 
You get out a' here , Jim , he shouted , an' start them wagons . 
The show's got to go on , Poll or no Poll . 
He turned with his hand on the door knob and jerked out a grudging thanks to the pastor . 
It's all fired good of you to take her in , he said , but it's tough to lose her . 
Good night ! He banged the door and clattered down the steps . 
He was trying to find words in which to tell his gratitude . 
None came and he turned to go with a short good bye ! Good night , Jim , said the pastor . 
He crossed the room and took the big fellow's hand . 
Much obliged , Jim answered gruffly . 
It was his only polite phrase , and he had taught Polly to say it . 
Douglas waited until Jim had passed down the steps , then turned to Toby , who still lingered near the table . 
You'll tell her how it was , me and Jim had to leave her without sayin' 'good bye , won't you , sir ? Toby pleaded . 
Yes , indeed , Douglas promised . 
I'll jes' put this little bit o' money into her satchel . 
He picked up the little brown bag that was to have been Polly's birthday gift . 
Me an' Jim will be sendin' her more soon . 
You're going to miss her , I'm afraid , Douglas said , feeling an irresistible desire to gain the old man's confidence . 
Lord bless you , yes , sir , Toby answered , turning upon him eagerly . 
Me an' Jim has been father an' mother and jes' about everythin' to that little one . 
She wan't much bigger'n a handful of peanuts when we begun a worryin' about her . 
Well , Mandy will do the worrying now , Douglas laughed . 
She's been dying for a chance to mother somebody all along . 
Why , she even tried it on me . 
Oh , they're all right , Douglas assured him they'll be her friends in no time . 
She's fit for 'em , sir , Toby pleaded . 
She's good , clean into the middle of her heart . 
I'm sure of it , Douglas answered . 
It's 'cause I'm leavin' her with you that I'm sayin' all this , the old man apologised . 
I'm glad you told me , Toby , Douglas answered , kindly . 
I've never known much about circus folks . 
I guess I'd better be goin' , Toby faltered , as his eyes roved hungrily toward the stairway . 
I'll send you our route , and mebbe you'll be lettin' us know how she is . 
Indeed I will , Douglas assured him , heartily . 
You might tell her we'll write ever' day or so , he added . 
I'll tell her , Douglas promised earnestly . 
Good night ! The old man hesitated , unwilling to go , but unable to find further pretext for staying . 
Douglas extended his hand toward the bent figure that was about to shuffle past him . 
It's hard to leave her , he mumbled but the show has got to go on . 
The door shut out the bent , old figure . 
Douglas stood for some time where Toby had left him , still thinking of his prophetic words . 
The show has got to go on , he repeated as he crossed to his study table and seated himself for work in the dim light of the old fashioned lamp . 
He put out one hand to draw the sheets of his interrupted sermon toward him , but instead it fell upon a small sailor hat . 
He twisted the hat absently in his fingers , not yet realising the new order of things that was coming into his life . 
Mandy tiptoed softly down the stairs . 
She placed one pudgy forefinger on her lips , and rolled her large eyes skyward . 
Dat sure am an angel chile straight from Hebben , she whispered . 
She done got a face jes' like a little flower . 
Straight from heaven , Douglas repeated , as she crossed softly to the table and picked up the satchel and coat . 
You can leave the lamp , Mandy I must finish to morrow's sermon . 
She turned at the threshold and shook her head rather sadly as she saw the imprint of the day's cares on the young pastor's face . 
Yo' mus' be pow'ful tired , she said . 
No , no not at all . 
Good night , Mandy ! She closed the door behind her , and Douglas was alone . 
He gazed absently at the pages of his unfinished sermon as he tapped his idle pen on the desk . 
There was no sound from the sleeper , so Mandy ventured across the room on tiptoe and raised the shades . 
The drooping boughs of Autumn foliage lay shimmering against the window panes , and through them might be seen the grey outline of the church . 
Lawdy sakes ! she cried , holding up a spangled dress , admiringly . 
Ain't dat beautiful ! She drew near the mirror , attempting to see the reflection of the tinsel and chiffon against her very ample background of gingham and avoirdupois . 
You'd sure be a swell nigger wid dat on , Honey , she chuckled to herself . 
She crossed to the old fashioned bureau which for many months had stood unused against the wall . 
The drawer creaked as she opened it to lay away the gay , spangled gown . 
It'll be a mighty long time afore she puts on dem tings agin , she said , with a doubtful shake of her large , round head . 
Then she went back to the chair and picked up Polly's sandals , and examined the bead work with a great deal of interest . 
Lawdy , lawdy ! she cried , as she compared the size of the sandals to that of her own rough , worn shoes . 
She was again upon the point of exploding with laughter , as the church bell added a few , final and more emphatic clangs to its warning . 
She turned with a start , motioning a vain warning out of the window for the bell to be silent , but the little sleeper was already stirring uneasily on her pillow . 
One soft arm was thrown languidly over her head . 
A tiny frown came into the small , white forehead . 
What's the matter ? she asked faintly , trying to find something familiar in the black face before her . 
Hush , child , hush , Mandy whispered jes' you lie puffickly still . 
Dat's only de furs' bell a ringin' . 
First bell ? the girl repeated , as her eyes travelled quickly about the strange walls and the unfamiliar fittings of the room . 
This ain't the show ! she cried , suddenly . 
Lor' bless you , no dis ain't no show , Mandy answered and she laughed reassuringly . 
Then where am I ? Polly asked , half breathless with bewilderment . 
Nebber you mind 'bout dat , was Mandy's unsatisfactory reply . 
But I DO mind , protested Polly , trying to raise herself to a sitting position . 
Where's the bunch ? De wat ? asked Mandy in surprise . 
The bunch Jim and Toby and the rest of the push ! Lor' bless you ! Mandy exclaimed . 
Dey's done gone 'long wid de circus , hours ago . 
Gone ! Show gone ! Polly cried in amazement . 
Then what am I doing here ? Hole on dar , honey ! hole on ! Mandy cautioned . 
Let me alone ! Polly put aside the arm that was trying to place a shawl around her . 
I got to get out a here . 
You'se got plenty o' time for dat , Mandy answered . 
I can't wait , and I won't ! Polly shrieked , almost beside herself with anxiety . 
I got to get to the next burg Wakefield , ain't it ? What time is it ? Let me alone ! Let me go ! she cried , struggling desperately . 
The door opened softly and the young pastor stood looking down at the picture of the frail , white faced child , and her black , determined captor . 
Here , here ! What's all this about ? he asked , in a firm tone , though evidently amused . 
Who are you ? returned the girl , as she shoved herself quickly back against the pillows and drew the covers close under her chin , looking at him oddly over their top . 
She done been cuttin' up somefin' awful , Mandy explained , as she tried to regain enough breath for a new encounter . 
Cutting up ? You surprise me , Miss Polly , he said , with mock seriousness . 
How do you know I'm Polly ? the little rebel asked , her eyes gleaming large and desperate above the friendly covers . 
If you will be VERY good and keep very quiet , I will try to tell you , he said , as he crossed to the bed . 
I won't be quiet , not for nobody , Polly objected , with a bold disregard of double negatives . 
I got to get a move . 
If you ain't goin' to help me , you needn't butt in . 
I am afraid I can't help you to go just yet , Douglas replied . 
He was beginning to perceive that there were tasks before him other than the shaping of Polly's character . 
What are you trying to do to me , anyhow ? she asked , as she shot a glance of suspicion from the pastor to Mandy . 
What am I up against ? Don't yuh be scared , honey , Mandy reassured her . 
You's jes' as safe here as you done been in de circus . 
Safer , we hope , Douglas added , with a smile . 
Are you two bug ? Polly questioned , as she turned her head from one side to the other and studied them with a new idea . 
Well , you can't get none the best of me . 
I can get away all right , and I will , too . 
She made a desperate effort to put one foot to the floor , but fell back with a cry of pain . 
Dar , dar , Mandy murmured , putting the pillow under the poor , cramped neck , and smoothing the tangled hair from Polly's forehead . 
Yuh done hurt yo'sef for suah dis time . 
The pastor had taken a step toward the bed . 
His look of amusement had changed to one of pity . 
You see , Miss Polly , you have had a very bad fall , and you can't get away just yet , nor see your friends until you are better . 
It's only a scratch , Polly whimpered . 
I can do my work I got to . 
Do you think he would like you to behave like this ? I sure am on the blink , she sighed , as she settled back wearily upon the pillow . 
You'll be all right soon , Douglas answered , cheerily . 
Mandy and I will help the time to go . 
I recollect now , Polly faltered , without hearing him . 
It was the last hoop . 
Jim seemed to have a hunch I was goin' to be in for trouble when I went into the ring . 
Bingo must a felt it , too . 
He kept a pullin' and a jerkin' from the start . 
I got myself together to make the last jump an' I can't remember no more . 
Her head drooped and her eyes closed . 
I wouldn't try just now if I were you , Douglas answered tenderly . 
It's my WHEEL , ain't it ? Polly questioned , after a pause . 
Yoah what , chile ? Mandy exclaimed , as she turned from the table , where she had been rolling up the unused bandages left from the doctor's call the night before . 
I say it's my creeper , my paddle , Polly explained , trying to locate a few of her many pains . 
Gee , but that hurts ! She tried to bend her ankle . 
Is it punctured ? Only sprained , Douglas answered , striving to control his amusement at the expression on Mandy's puzzled face . 
Better not talk any more about it . 
Ain't anything the matter with my tongue , is there ? she asked , turning her head to one side and studying him quizzically . 
I don't think there is , he replied good naturedly . 
How did I come to fall in here , anyhow ? she asked , as she studied the walls of the unfamiliar room . 
It's a swell place , she conceded grudgingly . 
We are comfortable , he admitted , as a tell tale smile again hovered about his lips . 
He was thinking of the changes that he must presently make in Miss Polly's vocabulary . 
Is this the 'big top ? she asked . 
The what ? he stammered . 
The main tent , she explained . 
Well , no not exactly . 
It's going to be your room now , Miss Polly . 
My room ! Gee ! Think a' that ! she gasped , as the possibility of her actually having a room all of her own took hold of her mind . 
Much obliged , she said with a nod , feeling that something was expected of her . 
You're very welcome , Douglas answered with a ring of genuine feeling in his voice . 
Awful quiet , ain't it ? she ventured , after a pause . 
Guess that's what woke me up . 
I'll have to be a heap better 'an I ever was 'fore I can write much , Polly drawled , with a whimsical little smile . 
I will write for you , the pastor volunteered , understanding her plight . 
You will ? For the first time he saw a show of real pleasure in her eyes . 
Every day , Douglas promised solemnly . 
And you will show me how ? Indeed I will . 
How long am I in for ? she asked . 
The doctor can tell better about that when he comes . 
The doctor ! So it's as bad as that , eh ? Oh , that need not frighten you , Douglas answered consolingly . 
I ain't frightened , she bridled quickly I ain't never scared of nothin . 
It's only 'cause they need me in the show that I'm a kickin' . 
Oh , they will get along all right , he said reassuringly . 
Get along ? Polly flashed with sudden resentment . 
Get along WITHOUT MY ACT ! It was apparent from her look of astonishment that Douglas had completely lost whatever ground he had heretofore gained in her respect . 
Say , have you seen that show ? She waited for his answer with pity and contempt . 
No , admitted John , weakly . 
Well I should say you ain't , or you wouldn't make no crack like that . 
I'm the whole thing in that push , she said with an air of self complacency and with me down and out , that show will be on the bum for fair . 
I beg your pardon , was all Douglas could say , confused by the sudden volley of unfamiliar words . 
What ! cried Polly , incredulously . 
Lordy no , chile he ain't nebber seed none ob dem tings , Mandy interrupted , as she tried to arrange a few short stemmed posies in a variegated bouquet . 
Well , what do you think of that ! Polly gasped . 
You're the first rube I ever saw that hadn't . 
She was looking at him as though he were a curiosity . 
So I'm a rube ! Douglas shook his head with a sad , little smile and good naturedly agreed that he had sometimes feared as much . 
I'm afraid I must also plead guilty to the charge of being a piker , Douglas admitted half sheepishly , for I did see the parade . 
Well , I was the one on the white horse right behind the lion cage , she began excitedly . 
You remember ? It's a little confused in my mind he caught her look of amazement , just AT PRESENT , he stammered , feeling her wrath again about to descend upon him . 
Well , I'm the twenty four sheet stand , she explained . 
Sheet ! Mandy shrieked from her corner . 
Yes the billboards the pictures , Polly said , growing impatient at their persistent stupidity . 
She sure am a funny talkin' thing ! mumbled Mandy to herself , as she clipped the withered leaves from a plant near the window . 
You are dead sure they know I ain't comin' on ? Polly asked with a lingering suspicion in her voice . 
Dead sure and Douglas smiled to himself as he lapsed into her vernacular . 
There was a moment's pause . 
Polly realised for the first time that she must actually readjust herself to a new order of things . 
Her eyes again roved about the room . 
It was a cheerful place in which to be imprisoned even Polly could not deny that . 
Ain't it the limit ? she sighed , and with that Jim and Toby seemed to drift farther away . 
She began to see their life apart from hers . 
She could picture Jim with his head in his hands . 
She could hear his sharp orders to the men . 
He was always short with the others when anything went wrong with her . 
I'll bet 'Muvver Jim's' in the dumps , she murmured , as a cloud stole across the flower like face then the tired muscles relaxed , and she ceased to rebel . 
Muvver Jim ? Douglas repeated , feeling that he must recall her to a knowledge of his presence . 
That's what I calls him , Polly explained , but the fellows calls him 'Big Jim . 
And your real mother went away when you were very young ? No , she didn't go AWAY No ? There was a puzzled note in the pastor's voice . 
She went out , Polly corrected . 
Out ! he echoed blankly . 
I don't like to talk about it . 
Polly raised herself on her elbow and looked at him solemnly , as though about to impart a bit of forbidden family history . 
It was this look in the round eyes that had made Jim so often declare that the kid knew everything . 
Why mother'd a been ashamed if she'd a knowed how she wound up . 
She was the best rider of her time , everybody says so , but she cashed in by fallin' off a skate what didn't have no more ginger 'an a kitten . 
If you can beat that ? She gazed at him with her lips pressed tightly together , evidently expecting some startling expression of wonder . 
And your father ? Douglas asked rather lamely , being at a loss for any adequate comment upon a tragedy which the child before him was too desolate even to understand . 
Oh , DAD'S finish was all right . 
He got his'n in a lion's cage where he worked . 
There was nothing slow about his end . 
She looked up for his approval . 
For de Lord's sake ! Mandy groaned as the wonder of the child's conversation grew upon her . 
And now I'm down and out , Polly concluded with a sigh . 
But THIS is nothing serious , said the pastor , trying to cheer her . 
It's serious ENOUGH , with a whole show a' dependin' on you . 
Maybe you don't know how it feels to have to knock off work . 
Oh , yes , I do , Douglas answered quickly . 
I was ill a while ago myself . 
I had to be in bed day after day , thinking of dozens of things that I ought to be doing . 
Was you ever floored ? Polly asked with a touch of unbelief as she studied the fine , healthy physique at the side of her bed . 
'Deed he was , chile , Mandy cried , feeling that her opportunity had now arrived an' I had the wors' time a keepin' him in bed . 
He act jes' like you did . 
Did he ? Polly was delighted to find that the pastor had nothin' on her , as she would have put it . 
You ought to have heard him , continued Mandy , made eloquent by Polly's show of interest . 
'What will dose poor folks do ? he kept a sayin' . 
'yes' yo' lie where yo' is , I tole him . 
'Dem poor folks will be better off dan dey would be a comin' to yoah funeral . 
Poor folks ? Polly questioned . 
Do you give money to folks ? We are always itchin' to get it AWAY from 'em . 
A sharp exclamation brought both Mandy and Douglas to attention . 
Preach ! Polly almost shouted . 
She looked at him with genuine alarm this time . 
That will do , Mandy , Douglas commanded , feeling an unwelcome drama gathering about his head . 
Great Barnum and Bailey ! Polly exclaimed , looking at him as though he were the very last thing in the world she had ever expected to see . 
Are you a skypilot ? That's what he am , chile . 
Will you get onto me a landin' into a mix up like this ? She continued to study the uncomfortable man at her side . 
I never thought I'd be a talkin'to one of you guys . 
What's your name ? Douglas . 
Ain't you got no handle to it ? If you mean my Christian name , it's John . 
Well , that sounds like a skypilot , all right . 
But you don't look like I s'posed they did . 
Why not ? I always s'posed skypilots was old and grouchy like . 
You're a'most as good lookin' as our strong man . 
I done tole him he was too good lookin' to be an unmarried parson , Mandy chuckled , more and more amused at the pastor's discomfort . 
Looks don't play a very important part in my work , Douglas answered curtly . 
Mandy's confidential snickers made him doubly anxious to get to a less personal topic . 
Well , they count for a whole lot with us . 
She nodded her head decidedly . 
How long you been showin' in this town , anyhow ? About a year , Douglas answered , with something of a sigh . 
A year ! she gasped . 
In a burg like this ? You must have an awful lot of laughs in your act to keep 'em a comin' that long . 
She was wise in the ways of professional success . 
Not many , I'm afraid . 
He wondered , for the first time , if this might be the reason for his rather indifferent success . 
Do you give them the same stuff , or have you got a rep ? A rep ? he repeated in surprise . 
Sure , repertory different acts entries , some calls 'em . 
Uncle Toby's got twenty seven entries . 
It makes a heap of difference in the big towns where you have a run . 
Oh , I understand , Douglas answered in a tone of relief . 
Well , I try to say something new each Sunday . 
What kind of spiels do you give 'em ? she inquired with growing interest . 
I try to help my people to get on better terms with themselves and to forget their week day troubles . 
He had never had occasion to define his efforts so minutely . 
Well , that's jes' the same as us , Polly told him with an air of condescension only circuses draws more people 'an churches . 
YOURS does seem to be a more popular form of entertainment , Douglas answered drily . 
He was beginning to feel that there were many tricks in the entertainment trade which he had not mastered . 
It was true that his position and hers had points of similarity . 
She was apparently successful as for himself , he could not be sure . 
He knew he tried very hard and that sometimes a tired mother or a sad faced child looked up at him with a smile that made the service seem worth while . 
Polly mistook the pastor's revery for envy , and her tender heart was quick to find consolation for him . 
You ain't got all the worst of it , she said . 
If we tried to play a dump like this for six months , we'd starve to death . 
You certainly must give 'em a great show , she added , surveying him with growing interest . 
It doesn't make much difference about the show Douglas began , but he was quickly interrupted . 
That's right , it's jes' the same with a circus . 
One year ye give 'em the rottenest kind of a thing , and they eat it up the next year you hand 'em a knock out , and it's a frost . 
Is that the way it is with a church show ? Much the same , Douglas admitted half amusedly , half regretfully . 
Very often when I work the hardest , I seem to do the least good . 
I guess our troubles is pretty much alike . 
Polly nodded with a motherly air of condescension . 
Only there ain't so much danger in your act . 
I'm not so sure about that , he laughed . 
Well , you take my tip , she leaned forward as though about to impart a very valuable bit of information . 
Don't you never go in for ridin' . 
There ain't no act on earth so hard as a ridin' act . 
The rest of the bunch has got it easy alongside of us . 
Take the fellows on the trapeze . 
They always get their tackle up in jes' the same place . 
Take the balancin' acts there ain't no difference in their layouts . 
Take any of 'em as depends on regular props and they ain't got much chance a goin' wrong . 
But say , when yer have ter do a ridin' act , there ain't never no two times alike . 
If your horse is feelin' good , the ground is stumbly if the ground ain't on the blink the horse is wobbly . 
Ther's always somethin' wrong somewheres , and yer ain't never knowin' how it's goin' ter end especially when you got to do a careful act like mine . 
There's a girl , Eloise , in our bunch , what does a SHOWY act on a horse what Barker calls Barbarian . 
She goes on in my place sometimes and say , them rubes applauds her as much as me , an' her stunts is baby tricks alongside o' mine . 
It's enough to make you sick o' art . 
She shook her head dolefully , then sat up with renewed interest . 
You see , mine is careful balancin' an' all that , an' you got ter know your horse an' your ground for that . 
Now you get wise ter what I'm a tellin' yer , and don't you NEVER go into ANYTHIN' what depends on ANYTHIN' else . 
Thank you , Polly , I won't . 
Douglas somehow felt that he was very much indebted to her . 
I seen a church show once , Polly said suddenly . 
You did ? Douglas asked , with new interest . 
Yes , she answered , closing her lips and venturing no further comment . 
Did you like it ? he questioned , after a pause . 
Couldn't make nothin' out of it I don't care much for readin' . 
Oh , it isn't ALL reading , he corrected . 
Well , the guy I saw read all of his'n . 
He got the whole thing right out of a book . 
Oh , that was only his text , laughed Douglas . 
And later he tried to interpret to his congrega Easy ! Easy ! she interrupted come again with that , will you ? He told them the meaning of what he read . 
Well , I don't know what he told 'em , but it didn't mean anythin' to me . 
But maybe your show is better'n his was , she added , trying to pacify him . 
Douglas was undecided whether to feel amused or grateful for Polly's ever increasing sympathy . 
Before he could trust his twitching lips to answer , she had put another question to him . 
Are you goin' to do a stunt while I am here ? I preach every Sunday , if that's what you mean I preach this morning . 
Is this Sunday ? she asked , sitting up with renewed energy and looking about the room as though everything had changed colour . 
And YOU GOT A MATINEE ? she exclaimed , incredulously . 
We have services , he corrected , gently . 
WE rest up on SUNDAYS , she said in a tone of deep commiseration . 
Oh , I see , he answered , feeling it no time to enter upon another discussion as to the comparative advantages of their two professions . 
What are you goin' ter spiel about to day ? About Ruth and Naomi . 
Ruth and who ? Naomi , he repeated . 
Naomi , she echoed , tilting her head from side to side , as she listened to the soft cadences of the word . 
I never heard that name afore . 
It 'ud look awful swell on a billboard , wouldn't it ? It's a Bible name , honey , Mandy said , eager to get into the conversation . 
Dar's a balful picture 'bout her . 
I LIKE to look at PICTURES , Polly answered tentatively . 
Mandy crossed the room to fetch the large Bible with its steel engravings . 
We got a girl named Ruth in our 'Leap of Death' stunt . 
Some of the folks is kinder down on 'er , but I ain't . 
See , honey , dar dey is , the old woman said , pointing to the picture of Ruth and Naomi . 
Them's crackerjacks , ain't they ? Polly gasped , and her eyes shone with wonder . 
Which one 's Ruth ? Dis one , said Mandy , pointing with her thumb . 
Why , they're dressed just like our chariot drivers . 
What does it say about 'em ? You can read it for yourself , Douglas answered gently . 
There was something pathetic in the eagerness of the starved little mind . 
Well , I ain't much on readin' OUT LOUD , she faltered , growing suddenly conscious of her deficiencies . 
Read it for me , will you ? Certainly , and he drew his chair nearer to the bed . 
'Entreat me not to leave thee , he read , 'or to return from following after thee , for whither thou goest I will go , and where thou lodgest I will lodge . 
Thy people shall be my people , and thy God my God . 
He stopped to ponder over the poetry of the lines . 
Kind o' pretty , ain't it ? Polly said softly . 
She felt awkward and constrained and a little overawed . 
There are far more beautiful things than that , Douglas assured her enthusiastically , as the echo of many such rang in his ears . 
There are ? And her eyes opened wide with wonder . 
Yes , indeed , he replied , pitying more and more the starvation of mind and longing to bring to it floods of light and enrichment . 
I guess I'd LIKE to hear YOU spiel , and she fell to studying him solemnly . 
You would ? he asked eagerly . 
Is there any more to that story ? she asked , ignoring his question . 
Would you read me a little more ? She was very humble now . 
Where thou diest will I die , and there will I be buried the Lord do so to me and more also , if ought but death part me and thee . 
There was a long pause . 
Suddenly the sharp , sweet notes of the church bell brought John Douglas to his feet with a start of surprise . 
Have you got to go ? Polly asked regretfully . 
Yes , I must but I'll read the rest from the church . 
Open the window , Mandy ! And he passed out of the door and quickly down the stairs . 
Chapter VI WHEN John Douglas's uncle offered to educate his nephew for the ministry , the boy was less enthusiastic than his mother . 
When he went away for his collegiate course , she was less in touch with him and he was able to steal time from his athletics to devote to his art . 
He spent his vacations in a neighbouring city before a drawing board in the office of a distinguished architect , his father's friend . 
Douglas was not a brilliant divinity student , and he was relieved when at last he received his degree in theology and found himself appointed to a small church in the Middle West . 
His step was very bright the morning he first went up the path that led to his new home . 
His artistic sense was charmed by the picturesque approach to the church and parsonage . 
The view toward the tree encircled spire was unobstructed , for the church had been built on the outskirts of the town to allow for a growth that had not materialised . 
He threw up his head and gazed at the blue hills , with their background of soft , slow moving clouds . 
The smell of the fresh earth , the bursting of the buds , the forming of new life , set him thrilling with a joy that was very near to pain . 
She was much concerned because the church people had not met the new pastor at the station and brought him to the house . 
Mandy had long been a fixture in the parsonage . 
She confided to Hasty , that she didn't blame de new parson fer not wantin' to mix up wid dat ar crowd . 
His mind had gone beyond the parsonage front now , and he described to them the advantage of adding an extra ten feet to the church spire . 
Mandy felt herself almost an artist when she and Hasty bade the pastor good night , for she was still quivering from the contagion of Douglas's enthusiasm . 
Here , at last , was a master who could do something besides find fault with her . 
Did yuh done see his jaw ? she whispered . 
He look laughin' enough NOW , but jes' yuh wait till he done set dat'ere jaw a his'n and afar ain't nobody what's goin' ter unsot it . 
Maybe dar ain't goin' ter be no clinchin' , said Hasty , hoping for Mandy's assurance to the contrary . 
I don' like no woman what's allus braggin' 'bout her clean floors , answered Mandy , shortly . 
She turned out the last light , and tiptoed upstairs , trying not to disturb the pastor . 
John Douglas was busy already with pencil and paper , making notes of the plans for the church and parsonage , which he would perfect later on . 
We think we've done pretty well by this church , said Deacon Strong , who was the business head , the political boss , and the moral mentor of the small town's affairs . 
Just you worry along with the preachin' , young man , and we'll attend to the buyin' and buildin' operations . 
Douglas's mind was too active to content itself wholly with the writing of sermons and the routine of formal , pastoral calls . 
But he was never popular with the creed bound element of the church . 
Mandy had her wish about being on the spot the first time that the parson's jaw squared itself at Deacon Strong . 
The deacon had called at the parsonage to demand that Douglas put a stop to the boys playing baseball in the adjoining lot on Sunday . 
Douglas had been unable to see the deacon's point of view . 
The close of the interview was unsatisfactory both to Douglas and the deacon . 
Dey kinder made me cold an' prickly all up an' down de back , Mandy said later , when she described their talk to Hasty . 
Dat 'ere deacon don' know nuffin' 'bout gittin' 'roun' de parson . 
She tossed her head with a feeling of superiority . 
Make him forget himself with a laugh . 
Excite his sympathy with some village underdog . 
She went about her work , crooning softly during the days of Polly's convalescence . 
The deep , steady voice of the pastor reading aloud in the pretty window overhead was company . 
As spring came on , Douglas carried Polly down to the sun lit garden beneath the window and Mandy fluttered about arranging the cushions with motherly solicitude . 
When she was able , Douglas took her with him to visit some of the outlying houses of the poor . 
Her woman's instinct was quick to perceive many small needs in their lives that he had overlooked , and to suggest simple , inexpensive joys that made them her devoted friends . 
Their evenings were divided between making plans for these unfortunates and reading aloud from the Bible or other books . 
When Polly gained courage , Douglas sometimes persuaded her to read to him and the little corrections that he made at these times soon became noticeable in her manner of speech . 
She was so eager , so starved for knowledge , that she drank it as fast as he could give it . 
It was during their talks about grammar that Mandy generally fell asleep in her rocker , her unfinished sewing still in her lap . 
When a letter came from Jim and Toby , it was always shared equally by Mandy and Hasty , Polly and the pastor . 
But at last a letter came from Jim only , and Douglas , who was asked to read it , faltered and stopped after the first few words . 
It's no use my tryin' to keep it from you any longer , Poll , the letter began , we ain't got Toby with us no more . 
He didn't have no accident , it wasn't that . 
He just seemed kinder sick and ailin' like , ever since the night we had to leave you behind . 
I used to get him warm drinks and things , and try to pull 'im through , but he was always a chillin' and a achin' . 
If it wasn't one thing the matter , it was another . 
I done all I knowed you'd a wanted me to , an' the rest of the folks was mighty white to him , too . 
I guess they kinder felt how lonesome he was . 
He couldn't get no more laughs in the show , so Barker had to put on another man with him . 
That kinder hurt him too I s'pose an' showed him the way that things was a goin' . 
It was just after that , he wrote the parson a tellin' him to never let you come back . 
He seemed to a' got an idee in his head that you was happier where you was . 
He wouldn't let me tell ye 'bout his feelin' so rocky , 'cause he thought it might mebbe make you come back . 
'She's diff'runt from us , he was allus a sayin' . 
'I never 'spected to keep 'er . 
Polly was waiting , her face white and drawn . 
He had not told her of Toby's letter , because with it had come a request to say nothin' to the kid . 
He felt that Polly was controlling herself with an effort until he should reach the end of Jim's letter , so he hurried on . 
The parson's promise didn't get to him none too quick , he read . 
That seemed to be what he was waitin' for . 
There wasn't much to it he just seemed tired and peaceful like . 
'I'm glad he wrote what he did , he said , meanin' the parson . 
'She knows , she allus knows , he whispered , meanin' you , Poll , and then he was on his way . 
I got everythin' ready afore I went on the next day , an' I went up and saw the little spot on the hill where they was goin' to stow him . 
It looked kinder nice and the digger's wife said she'd put some flowers on to it now and then . 
It was YOU what made me think o' that , Poll , 'cause it seemed to me what you would a' done you was always so daffy about flowers , you and him . 
I guess this letter's too long for me to be a sayin' much about the show , but the 'Leap a Death' girl got hern last week . 
She wasn't strong enough for the job , nohow . 
I done what I could for her outside the show , 'cause I knowed how you was always a feelin' 'bout her . 
I guess the 'Leap a Death's' husband is goin' to jump his job soon , if he gets enough saved up , 'cause him and Barker can't hit it off no more . 
We got a good deal o' trouble among the animals , too . 
I guess you'll think I got the pip for fair this time , so I'll just get onto myself now and cut this short . 
I'll be writin' you agin when we hit Morgantown . 
Douglas laid the letter gently on the table , his hand still resting upon it . 
He looked helplessly at the little , shrunken figure in the opposite chair . 
Polly had made no sound , but her head had slipped lower and lower and she now sat very quietly with her face in her hands . 
She had been taught by Toby and Jim never to whimper . 
What a plucky lot they are , thought Douglas , as he considered these three lonely souls , each accepting whatever fate brought with no rebellion or even surprise . 
It was a strange world of stoics in which these children of the amusement arena fought and lost . 
They came and went like phantoms , with as little consciousness of their own best interests as of the great , moving powers of the world about them . 
They felt no throes of envy , no bitterness . 
They loved and worked and went their way . 
For once the pastor was powerless in the presence of grief . 
Both he and Mandy left the room quietly , feeling that Polly wished to be spared the outburst of tears that a sympathetic word might bring upon her . 
They allowed her to remain alone for a time , then Mandy entered softly with a tender good night and Douglas followed her cheerily as though nothing at all had happened . 
It was many weeks before Polly again became a companion to Douglas and Mandy , but they did not intrude upon her grief . 
They waited patiently for the time when youth should again assert itself , and bring back their laughing mate to them . 
Chapter VIII When Polly understood that Toby was ACTUALLY GONE , it seemed to her that she could never laugh again . 
She felt that she must be able to DRAG him back , that she could not go on without him . 
She wanted to tell him how grateful she was for all his care of her . 
She thought of the thousand little things that she might have done for him . 
She longed to recall every impatient word to him . 
His gentle reproachful eyes were always haunting her . 
You must come back , Toby ! she cried . 
She tried to answer in her old , smiling way and to keep her mind upon what they were saying , instead of letting it wander away to the past . 
Douglas and Mandy were overjoyed to see the colour creeping back to her cheeks . 
She joined the pastor again in his visits to the poor . 
They had not gone for their walk to day , because Mandy had needed Polly to help make ready for the social to be held in the Sunday school room to night . 
Tag you're it ! she cried , and then dashed out the back door , pursued by the laughing , screaming youngsters . 
The leaves once more were red and yellow on the trees , but to day the air was warm , and the children were wearing their summer dresses . 
Polly's lithe , girlish figure looked almost tall by comparison with the children about her . 
She wore a plain , simple gown of white , which Mandy had helped her to make . 
It had been cut ankle length , for Polly was now seventeen . 
Her quaint , old fashioned manner , her serious eyes , and her trick of knotting her heavy , brown hair low on her neck , made her seem older . 
Mandy waited until the children had disappeared over the hill , then began bustling about looking for the step ladder which Hasty had left under the vines of the porch . 
It had been a busy day at the parsonage . 
A social always meant perturbation for Mandy . 
She called sharply to Hasty , as he came down the path which made a short cut to the village So's you'se back , is you ? she asked , sarcastically . 
Masse John done send you to de post office two hours ago , said Mandy , as she took the letters and papers from his hand . 
Five minutes is plenty ob time for any nigger to do dat job . 
I done been detained , Hasty drawled . 
You'se always 'tained when dar's any work a goin' on , Mandy snapped at him . 
Whar's Miss Polly ? Hasty asked , ignoring Mandy's reference to work . 
Nebber you mind 'bout Miss Polly . 
Jes' you done fetch that step ladder into de Sunday school room . 
But I wants her , Hasty insisted . 
I'se been on very 'ticular business what she ought to know 'bout . 
What kind ob business ? I got to fix de Sunday school room , said Hasty , as he perceived her growing curiosity . 
You come heah , nigger ! Mandy called , determined that none of the village doings should escape her . 
Out wid it ! Well , it's 'bout de circus , Hasty answered ? seating himself again on the box . 
Dey's showin' in Wakefield to night , and next month dey's comin' here . 
Dat same circus what Miss Polly used to be wid ? Mandy's eyes grew large with curiosity . 
De very same , and Hasty nodded mysteriously . 
How you know dat ? Mandy was uncertain whether to believe him . 
'Cause da's a big , red wagon downtown wid de name ob de show painted on it . 
It's de advertisin' one what goes ahead wid all de pictures what dey pastes up . 
And you been hangin' 'roun' dat wagon ? I done thought Miss Polly might want to know . 
See here , lazy nigger , don' you go puttin' no circus notions into Miss Polly's head . 
She don' care no more 'bout dem things since her Uncle Toby done die . 
She done been satisfied right whar she am . 
Jes' you let her be . 
I ain't done nothin' , Hasty protested . 
Nebber do do nothin' , growled Mandy . 
Go long now , and get a work . 
Mos' four o'clock and dat Sunday school room ain't ready yet . 
Hasty picked up the empty box and the step ladder and went out through the gate . 
He had barely disappeared when a peal of laughter was heard from the hillside , and before Mandy could get out of the way , the youngsters came tumbling down the path again . 
Lawsy , lawsy , she gasped , as Polly circled around her , dodging the children . 
You'se cheeks is red as pineys , honey . 
Tag ! you're it ! Polly cried , as she touched the widow's auburn haired offspring on the sleeve . 
There was much wailing when Willie passed the tag to little Jennie , the smallest girl in the crowd . 
I won't play no more , she sobbed 'cause I's always it . 
The children were in a state of nerves that did credit to Polly as an entertainer , when Hasty broke in upon the song . 
When you get a minute I want ter tell yer somethin' . 
I have one right now . 
And turning to the eager mites at her side , Polly told them to run along into the grove , and that she'd come pretty soon to teach them a new game . 
The youngsters went screaming and laughing on their way , and she breathed a sigh of relief as she threw herself down on the rustic seat that encircled the elm tree . 
What is it , Hasty ? she asked , suspecting that he was in trouble with Mandy . 
It's 'bout de circus , Hasty informed her bluntly . 
The circus ? She rose and crossed to him quickly . 
It's in Wakefield en' nex' month it's a comin' here . 
I thought you'd want ter know , said Hasty , little surprised at her lack of enthusiasm . 
She turned away and pretended to look at the flowers . 
Don' yous tell Mandy I been talkin' 'bout dat circus , said Hasty , uneasily . 
She looked at the girl's troubled face and drooping shoulders in surprise . 
What make you look so serious , Honey ? Just thinking , said Polly absently . 
My ! Don' you look fine in your new dress ! She was anxious to draw the girl out of her reverie . 
Do you like it ? Polly asked eagerly , forgetting her depression of a moment before . 
Do you think Mr. John will like it ? Masse John ? Mercy me ! He nebber takes no notice ob dem things . 
But udder folks sees , Mandy continued , comfortingly , an' you certainly look mighty fine . 
Why , you's just as good now as you was afore you got hurled ! Yes , I'm well now and able to work again . 
There was no enthusiasm in her tone , for Hasty's news had made her realise how unwelcome the old life would be to her . 
Work ! You does work all de time . 
My stars ! de help you is to Massa John . 
Do you think so ? Do I help him ? Do I ? Of course you does . 
You mustn't say 'learned him , Polly corrected you must say 'taught him . 
You can't 'learn' anybody anything . 
You can only 'teach' them . 
Lordy sakes ! I didn't know dat . 
She rolled her large eyes at her young instructress , and saw that Polly looked very serious . 
She's gwine ter have anudder one a dem 'ticlar spells thought Mandy , and she made ready to protest . 
See here , ain't you nebber She was interrupted by a quick Have you never from Polly . 
It dun make no difference what you say , Mandy snapped , so long as folks understands you . 
She always grew restive under these ordeals but Polly's firm controlled manner generally conquered . 
Oh , yes , it does , answered Polly . 
I used to think it didn't but it does . 
You have to say things in a certain way or folks look down on you . 
I's satisfied de way I be , declared Mandy , as she plumped herself down on the garden bench and began to fidget with resentment . 
The way I am , Polly persisted , sweetly . 
See here , chile , is day why you been a settin' up nights an' keepin de light burnin' ? You mustn't say 'setting up you must say 'sitting up . 
Hens set So do I , interrupted Mandy I's doin' it NOW . 
For a time she preserved an injured silence , then turned upon Polly vehemently . 
If I had to think ob all dat ere foolishness eber' time I open my mouth , I'd done been tongue tied afore I was born . 
I could teach you in no time , volunteered Polly , eagerly . 
I don't want to be teached , protested Mandy , doggedly . 
Hast Jones says I's too smart anyhow . 
Men don't like women knowin' too much it skeers 'em . 
I's good enough for my old man , and I ain't a tryin' to get nobody else's , Mandy wound up flatly . 
But he'd like you all the better , persisted Polly , laughing . 
I don' WANT to be liked no better by NO nigger , snapped Mandy . 
I's a busy woman , I is . 
She made for the house , then curiosity conquered her and she came back to Polly's side . 
See here , honey , whose been l'arnin' you all dem nonsense ? I learn from Mr. Douglas . 
I remember all the things he tells me , and at night I write them down and say them over . 
Do you see this , Mandy ? She took a small red book from her belt and put it into Mandy's black chubby fists . 
I see some writin' , if dat's what you mean , Mandy answered , helplessly . 
These are my don'ts , Polly confided , as she pointed enthusiastically to worn pages of finely written notes . 
You'se WHAT , chile ? The things I mustn't do or say . 
An' you'se been losin' yoah beauty sleep for dem tings ? Mandy looked incredulous . 
I don't want Mr. John to feel ashamed of me , she said with growing pride . 
Well , you'd catch Mandy a settin' up for Oh , oh ! What did I tell you , Mandy ? Polly pointed reproachfully to the reminder in the little red book . 
It was a fortunate thing that Willie interrupted the lesson at this point , for Mandy's temper was becoming very uncertain . 
The children had grown weary waiting for Polly , and Willie had been sent to fetch her . 
Polly offered to help Mandy with the decorations , but Willie won the day , and she was running away hand in hand with him when Douglas came out of the house . 
Wait a minute ! he called . 
My , how fine you look ! He turned Polly about and surveyed the new gown admiringly . 
He did see it ! He did see it ! cried Polly , gleefully . 
I always notice everything , don't I , Mandy ? You suah am improvin' since Miss Polly come , Mandy grunted . 
Come , Willie ! called the girl , and ran out laughing through the trees . 
What's this ? Douglas took the small book from Mandy's awkward fingers , and began to read 'Hens set He frowned . 
Oh , dem's jes' Miss Polly's 'don'ts , interrupted Mandy , disgustedly . 
Her 'don'ts' ? She done been set sit settin' up nights tryin' to learn what you done tole her , stuttered Mandy . 
Dear little Polly , he murmured , then closed the book and put it into his pocket . 
Chapter IX DOUGLAS was turning toward the house when the Widow Willoughby came through the wicker gate to the left of the parsonage , carrying bunting for the social . 
She was followed by Miss Perkins with a bucket of pickles , which Mandy promptly placed on top of Mrs. Elverson's ice cream . 
The women explained that they had come to put the finishing touches to the decorations . 
If anything was needed to increase Mandy's dislike of the widow , it was this announcement . 
Mrs. Willoughby was greatly worried because her children had not been home since the afternoon school session . 
Upon learning that they were with Polly , she plainly showed her displeasure and Douglas dispatched Mandy for them . 
He always led the way and always told Elverson what to think . 
They had been talking excitedly as they neared the parsonage , for Strong disapproved of the recent changes which the pastor had made in the church service . 
He and Douglas had clashed more than once since the baseball argument , and the deacon had realised more and more that he had met a will quite as strong as his own . 
His failure to bend the parson to his way of thinking was making him irritable , and taking his mind from his business . 
Can you beat that ! he would exclaim as he turned away from some disagreement with Douglas , his temper ruffled for the day . 
Polly was utterly unconscious of the unfriendly glances cast in her direction as she came running into the garden , leading the widow's two children . 
She nodded gaily to Julia Strong , who was coming through the gate , then hurried to Mrs. Willoughby , begging that the children be allowed to remain a little longer . 
She was making up a new game , she said , and needed Willie and Jennie for the set . 
My children do not play in promiscuous games , said the widow , icily . 
Oh , but this isn't pro pro pro Polly stammered . 
You put two here , and two here , and I don't care to know . 
The widow turned away , and pretended to talk to Julia . 
Oh ! gasped Polly , stunned by the widow's rebuff . 
She stood with bowed head in the centre of the circle . 
The blood flew from her cheeks , then she turned to go . 
Douglas stepped quickly to her side . 
Wait a minute , he said . 
She paused , all eyes were turned upon them . 
Is this a game that grown ups can play ? Why , yes , of course . 
Good ! Then I'll make up your set . 
I need a little amusement just now . 
Excuse me , he added , turning to the deacons . 
Then he ran with her out through the trees . 
The deacons and the women stared at each other , aghast . 
Well , what do you think of that ? said Mrs. Willoughby , as the flying skirts of the girl and the black figure of the man disappeared up the path . 
I think it's scandalous , if you are talking to me , said Miss Perkins . 
The idea of a full grown parson a runnin' off to play children's games with a circus ridin' girl ! She isn't such a child , sneered Julia . 
It's ENOUGH to make folks talk , put in Mrs. Willoughby , with a sly look at the deacons . 
And me a waitin' to discuss the new church service , bellowed Strong . 
And me a waiting to give him Mrs. Elverson's message , piped Elverson . 
The church bore all this in silence so long as that girl was sick , snapped Miss Perkins . 
But now she's perfectly well , and still a hanging on . 
No wonder folks are talking . 
Who's talking ? thundered Strong . 
Didn't you know ? simpered Mrs. Willoughby , not knowing herself nor caring , so long as the suspicion grew . 
Know what ? yelled the excited deacon . 
Miss Perkins rushed into the breach . 
Well , if I was deacon of this church , it seems to me I'd know something about what's going on in it . 
What IS goin' on ? shrieked the now desperate deacon . 
The women looked at him pityingly , exchanged knowing glances , then shook their heads at his hopeless stupidity . 
Strong was not accustomed to criticism . 
He prided himself upon his acuteness , and was , above all , vain about his connection with the church . 
He looked from one woman to the other . 
He was seething with helpless rage . 
The little deacon at his side coughed nervously . 
Strong's pent up wrath exploded . 
Why didn't YOU tell me , Elverson , that people was a talkin' , he roared in the frightened man's ear . 
Elverson sputtered and stammered , but nothing definite came of the sounds so Strong again turned to Miss Perkins What is going on ? he demanded . 
The spinster shrugged her shoulders and lifted her eyes heavenward , knowing that nothing could so madden the deacon as this mysterious inference of things too terrible to mention . 
Strong uttered a desperate Bah ! and began pacing up and down the garden with reckless strides . 
Mrs. Willoughby watched him with secret delight , and when he came to a halt , she wriggled to his side with simpering sweetness . 
What COULD folks say ? she asked . 
When Strong was gone , Elverson looked at the set faces of the women , and attempted a weak apology for the pastor . 
I dare say the young man was very lonely very before she came . 
Lonely ? snapped Miss Perkins . 
Well , if HE was LONELY , I didn't know it . 
The deacon excused himself nervously , and went to join Strong . 
The women gathered up their buntings , and retired with bland smiles to the Sunday school room , feeling that they had accomplished enough for the time being . 
Strong and Elverson crossed the yard , still in search of the pastor . 
They turned at the sound of fluttering leaves and beheld Douglas , hatless , tearing down the path . 
Strong called to him , but Douglas darted quickly behind the hedge . 
The deacons looked at one another in speechless astonishment . 
Presently the silence was broken by the distant voice of Polly counting from one to one hundred . 
The secret was out ! The pastor , a leader of the church , was playing hide and seek . 
Mr. Douglas ! shouted Strong , when his breath had returned . 
Hush , hush ! whispered Douglas , looking over the hedge . 
He peeped cautiously about him , then came toward the men with a sigh of relief . 
She has gone the other way . 
It'll be a good thing for you if she never comes back , said Strong , and Douglas's quick ear caught an unpleasant meaning in his tone . 
What's that ? the pastor asked , in a low , steady voice . 
We don't like some of the things that are going on here , and I want to talk to you about 'em . 
Very well , but see if you can't talk in a lower key . 
Never mind about the key , shouted Strong , angrily . 
Something in his eyes made the deacon lower his voice . 
Because she's been here long enough . 
I don't agree with you there . 
Well , it don't make no difference whether you do or not . 
Yes , sir e bob . 
We've made up our minds to that . 
And who do you mean by 'we' ? The members of this congregation , replied Strong , impatiently . 
Am I to understand that YOU are speaking for THEM ? There was a deep frown between the young pastor's eyes . 
He was beginning to be perplexed . 
Yes , and as deacon of this church . 
Then , as deacon of this church , you tell the congregation for me that that is MY affair . 
Your affair ! shouted Strong . 
When that girl is living under the church's roof , eating the church's bread ! Just one moment ! You don't quite understand . 
Any guests that I may have here are MY guests , and NOT guests of the church . 
There was an embarrassing silence . 
The deacons recalled that the pastor's salary WAS slightly in arrears . 
You keep out of this , Elverson ! he cried . 
I'm running this affair and I ain't forgetting my duty nor the parson's . 
I shall endeavour to do MY duty as I see it , answered Douglas , turning away and dismissing the matter . 
Your duty is to your church , thundered Strong . 
Is your duty to the church the ONLY reason you keep that girl here ? No , there are other reasons . 
You've heard her story you MUST have heard . 
She was left with me by an old clown who belonged in the circus where she worked . 
Before he died he asked me to look after her . 
She has no one else . 
I shall certainly do so . 
That was when she was hurt . 
She's well now , and able to go back where she came from . 
Do you expect us to have our young folks associatin' with a circus ridin' girl ? So , that's it ! cried the pastor , with a pitying look . 
You think this child is unfit for your homes because she was once in a circus . 
For some reason , circus to you spells crime . 
You call yourself a Christian , Deacon Strong , and yet you insist that I send a good , innocent girl back to a life which you say is sinful . 
I'm ashamed of you , Strong I'm ashamed of you ! That talk don't do no good with me , roared Strong . 
He was desperate at being accused of an unchristian attitude . 
I ain't askin' you to send her back to the circus . 
I don't care WHERE you send her . 
Get her away from HERE , that's all . 
Not so long as she wishes to stay . 
You won't ? Strong saw that he must try a new attack . 
He came close to Douglas and spoke with a marked insinuation . 
If you was a friend to the girl , you wouldn't want the whole congregation a pointin' fingers at her . 
What do you mean ? I mean that you're living here alone with her and it looks bad bad for the girl , and bad for YOU and folks is talkin' . 
Are you trying to tell me that my people are evil minded enough to think that I Douglas stopped . 
He could not frame the question . 
I don't believe it , he concluded shortly . 
You'll be MADE to believe it if you don't get rid of that girl . 
He was still gurgling and sputtering when Strong interrupted , impatiently . 
It makes no difference whether we believe it or not . 
We're going to do our duty by the church , and that girl must leave or Or I must . 
Douglas pieced out Strong's phrase for himself . 
That threat doesn't frighten me at all , deacon . 
The deacon was plainly disappointed . 
Is it possible ? gasped Elverson , weakly . 
Well , what are you going to do about it ? asked Strong , when he could trust himself to speak again . 
I shall do what is best for Miss Polly , said the pastor quietly but firmly . 
He turned away to show that the interview was at an end . 
Douglas pointed to the gate with a meaning not to be mistaken . 
He looked at the pastor , then at the gate , then at the pastor again . 
I'll go , he shouted but it ain't the end ! He slammed the gate behind him . 
Quite so , quite so , chirped Elverson , not having the slightest idea of what he was saying . 
He saw the frigid expression on the pastor's face , he coughed behind his hat , and followed Strong . 
Chapter X Douglas dropped wearily onto the rustic bench . 
He sat with drooped head and unseeing eyes . 
He did not hear Polly as she scurried down the path , her arms filled with autumn leaves . 
She glanced at him , dropped the bright coloured foliage , and slipped quickly to the nearest tree . 
One , two , three for Mr. John , she cried , as she patted the huge , brown trunk . 
Is that you , Polly ? he asked absently . 
Now , it's your turn to catch me , she said , lingering near the tree . 
The pastor was again lost in thought . 
Aren't you going to play any more ? There was a shade of disappointment in her voice . 
She came slowly to his side . 
Sit here , Polly , he answered gravely , pointing to a place on the bench . 
I want to talk to you . 
Now , I've done something wrong , she pouted . 
She gathered up her garlands and brought them to a place near his feet , ignoring the seat at his side . 
You might just as well tell me and get it over . 
You couldn't do anything wrong , he answered , looking down at her . 
Oh , yes , I could and I've done it I can see it in your face . 
What is it ? What have you there ? he asked , trying to gain time , and not knowing how to broach the subject that in justice to her must be discussed . 
Some leaves to make garlands for the social , Polly answered more cheerfully . 
Would you mind holding this ? She gave him one end of a string of leaves . 
Where are the children ? Gone home . 
You like the children very much , don't you , Polly ? Douglas was striving for a path that might lead them to the subject that was troubling him . 
Oh , no , I don't LIKE them , I LOVE them . 
She looked at him with tender eyes . 
You're the greatest baby of all . 
A puzzled line came between his eyes as he studied her more closely . 
And yet , you're not such a child , are you , Polly ? You're quite grown up , almost a young lady . 
He looked at her from a strange , unwelcome point of view . 
She was all of that as she sat at his feet , yearning and slender and fair , at the turning of her seventeenth year . 
I wonder how you would like to go way ? Her eyes met his in terror . 
Away to a great school , he added quickly , flinching from the very first hurt that he had inflicted where there are a lot of other young ladies . 
Is it a place where you would be ? She looked up at him anxiously . 
She wondered if his show was about to move on . 
I'm afraid not , Douglas answered , smiling in spite of his heavy heart . 
I wouldn't like any place without you , she said decidedly , and seemed to consider the subject dismissed . 
But if it was for your GOOD , Douglas persisted . 
It could never be for my good to leave you . 
But just for a little while , he pleaded . 
But you must get ahead in your studies , he argued . 
She looked at him anxiously . 
She was beginning to be alarmed at his persistence . 
Maybe I've been playing too many periscous games . 
Not periscous , Polly , promiscuous . 
Pro mis cuous , she repeated , haltingly . 
What does that mean ? Indiscriminate . 
He rubbed his forehead as he saw the puzzled look on her face . 
Mixed up , he explained , more simply . 
Our game wasn't mixed up . 
She was thinking of the one to which the widow had objected . 
Is it promiscuous to catch somebody ? It depends upon whom you catch , he answered with a dry , whimsical smile . 
Well , I don't catch anybody but the children . 
She looked up at him with serious , inquiring eyes . 
She did not hear him . 
She was searching for her book . 
Is this what you are looking for ? he asked , drawing the missing article from his pocket . 
Oh ! cried Polly , with a flush of embarrassment . 
You've been working a long time on that . 
I thought I might help you if I learned everything you told me , she answered , timidly . 
But I don't suppose I could . 
I can never tell you how much you help me , Polly . 
Do I ? she cried , eagerly . 
I can help more if you will only let me . 
I can teach a bigger class in Sunday school now . 
I got to the book of Ruth to day . 
You did ? He pretended to be astonished . 
He was anxious to encourage her enthusiasm . 
Um hum ! She answered solemnly . 
A dreamy look came into her eyes . 
Do you remember the part that you read to me the first day I came ? He nodded . 
He was thinking how care free they were that day . 
How impossible such problems as the present one would have seemed then . 
I know every bit of what you read by heart . 
It's our next Sunday school lesson . 
Do you think now that it would be best for me to go away ? She looked up into his troubled face . 
We'll see , we'll see , he murmured , then tried to turn her mind toward other things . 
Come now , let's find out whether you DO know your Sunday school lesson . 
How does it begin ? There was no answer . 
She had turned away with trembling lips . 
And Ruth said he took her two small hands and drew her face toward him , meaning to prompt her . 
Entreat me not to leave thee , she pleaded . 
His face was close to hers . 
The small features before him were quivering with emotion . 
She was so frail , so helpless , so easily within his grasp . 
His muscles grew tense and his lips closed firmly . 
He was battling with an impulse to draw her toward him and comfort her in the shelter of his strong , brave arms . 
They shan't ! he cried , starting toward her . 
Polly drew back , overawed . 
Her soul had heard and seen the things revealed to each of us only once . 
She would never again be a child . 
Douglas braced himself against the back of the bench . 
What was the rest of the lesson ? he asked in a firm , hard voice . 
I can't say it now , Polly murmured . 
Her face was averted her white lids fluttered and closed . 
Nonsense , of course you can . 
Come , come , I'll help you . 
He was almost vexed with her and with himself for the weakness that was so near overcoming them . 
And Ruth said , 'Entreat me not to leave thee 'Or to return from following after thee . 
She was struggling to keep back the tears . 
'For whither thou goest , I will go , and where thou lodgest , I will lodge . 
Thy people shall be my people , and thy God my' She stopped . 
That's right , go on , said Douglas , striving to control the unsteadiness in his own voice . 
Where thou diest , will I die' her arms went out blindly . 
Oh , you won't send me away , will you ? she sobbed . 
I don't want to learn anything else just except from you . 
She covered her face and slipped , a little , broken heap at his feet . 
In an instant the pastor's strong arms were about her , his stalwart body was supporting her . 
I won't let you I won't ! Do you hear me , Polly ? I won't ! Her breath was warm against his cheek . 
He could feel her tears , her arms about him , as she clung to him helplessly , sobbing and quivering in the shelter of his strong embrace . 
Chapter XI I'se goin' into de Sunday school room to take off dat ere widow's finishin' touches , said Mandy , as she came down the steps . 
All right ! called Douglas . 
Take these with you , perhaps they may help . 
He gathered up the garlands which Polly had left on the ground . 
His eyes were shining , he looked younger than Mandy had ever seen him . 
Polly had turned her back at the sound of Mandy's voice and crossed to the elm tree , drying her tears of happiness and trying to control her newly awakened emotions . 
I got the set sit settin' room all tidied up , said Mandy as she shot a sly glance at Polly . 
That's good , Polly answered , facing Mandy at last and dimpling and blushing guiltily . 
Mos' de sociable folks will mos' likely be hangin' roun' de parsonage to night , 'stead ob stayin' in de Sunday school room , whar dey belongs . 
Guess she'll be mighty careful what she says afore Mandy to night . 
She chuckled as she disappeared down the walk to the Sunday school room . 
Polly stood motionless where Mandy had left her . 
She hardly knew which way to turn . 
She was happy , yet afraid . 
She felt like sinking upon her knees and begging God to be good to her , to help her . 
She who had once been so independent , so self reliant , now felt the need of direction from above . 
She was no longer master of her own soul , something had gone from her , something that would never , never come again . 
While she hesitated , Hasty came through the gate looking anxiously over his shoulder . 
Well , Hasty ? she said , for it was apparent that Hasty had something important on his mind . 
It's de big one from de circus , he whispered , excitedly . 
The big one ? You know De one what brung you . 
You don't mean ? Polly's question was answered by Jim himself who had followed Hasty quickly through the gate . 
Their arms were instantly about each other . 
You're just as big as ever , said Polly , when she could let go of Jim long enough to look at him . 
You haven't changed a bit . 
You've changed enough for both of us . 
He looked at the unfamiliar long skirts and the new way of doing her hair . 
You're bigger , Poll more grown up like . 
Oh , Jim ! She glanced admiringly at the new brown suit , the rather startling tie , and the neat little posy in Jim's buttonhole . 
The fellows said I'd have to slick up a bit if I was a comin' to see you , so as not to make you ashamed of me . 
Do you like 'em ? he asked , looking down approvingly at his new brown clothes . 
For the first time Jim noticed the unfamiliar manner of her speech . 
He began to feel self conscious . 
A year ago she would have said , You bet ! He looked at her awkwardly . 
She hurried on Hasty told me you were showing in Wakefield . 
I knew you'd come to see me . 
How's Barker and all the boys ? She stopped with a catch in her throat , and added more slowly I suppose everything's different , now that Toby is gone . 
He'd a liked to a seen you afore he cashed in , Jim answered but maybe it was just as well he didn't . 
You'd hardly a knowed him toward the last , he got so thin an' peeked like . 
He wasn't the same after we lost you , nobody was , not even Bingo . 
Have you still got Bingo ? she asked , through her tears . 
Yep , we got him , drawled Jim , but he ain't much good no more . 
None of the other riders can get used to his gait like you was . 
There ain't nobody with the show what can touch you ridin' , there never will be . 
Say , mebbe you think Barker won't let out a yell when he sees yer comin' back . 
Jim was jubilant now , and he let out a little yell of his own at the mere thought of her return . 
He was too excited to notice the look on Polly's face . 
'Jes' you bring her along to Wakefield , he said , 'an' tell her that her place is waitin' for her , and I will , too . 
He turned upon Polly with sudden decision . 
Why , I feel jes' like pickin' yer up in my arms and carryin' you right off now . 
Wait , Jim ! She put one tiny hand on his arm to restrain him . 
I don't mean not to day mebbe he stammered , uncertainly , but we'll be back here a showin' next month . 
Don't look at me now , Polly answered , as the dog like eyes searched her face , because I have to say something that is going to hurt you , Jim . 
You're comin' , ain't yer , Poll ? The big face was wrinkled and care worn with trouble . 
No , Jim , she replied in a tone so low that he could scarcely hear her . 
You mean that you ain't NEVER comin' back ? He tried to realise what such a decision might mean to him . 
She answered tenderly , for she dreaded the pain that she must cause the great , good hearted fellow . 
You mustn't care like that , she pleaded , seeing the blank desolation that had come into his face . 
It isn't because I don't love you just the same , and it was good of Barker to keep my place for me , but I can't go back . 
He turned away she clung to the rough , brown sleeve . 
I couldn't go back to it , Jim ! I just couldn't ! She turned away , her face still hidden in her hands . 
He looked at her a long while in silence . 
I didn't know how you'd come to feel about it , he said doggedly . 
You aren't ANGRY , Jim ? She turned to him anxiously , her eyes pleading for his forgiveness . 
Angry ? he echoed , almost bitterly . 
I guess it couldn't ever come to that a tween you an' me . 
He shrugged his great shoulders . 
It's just kinder sudden , that's all . 
But it's all right now , and I'll just be gettin' along to the wagon . 
But , Jim , you haven't seen Mr. Douglas , Polly protested , trying to keep him with her until she could think of some way to comfort him . 
I'll look in on him comin' back , said Jim , anxious to be alone with his disappointment . 
He was out of the gate before she could stop him . 
Hurry back , won't you , Jim ? I'll be waiting for you . 
She watched him going quickly down the road , his fists thrust into his brown coat pockets , and his hat pulled over his eyes . 
He did not look back , as he used to do , to wave a parting farewell , and she turned toward the house with a troubled heart . 
She had reached the lower step when Strong and Elverson approached her from the direction of the church . 
Was that feller here to take you back to the circus ? demanded Strong . 
She opened her lips to reply , but before she could speak , Strong assured her that the congregation wouldn't do anything to stop her if she wished to go . 
He saw the blank look on her face . 
We ain't tryin' to pry into none of your private affairs , he explained but my daughter saw you and that there feller a makin' up to each other . 
If you're calculatin' to run away with him , you'll save a heap of trouble for the parson by doin' it quick . 
The parson ! YOU can't blame the congregation for not wantin' him to keep you here . 
You got sense enough to see how it looks . 
HE'D see it , too , if he wasn't just plain , bull headed . 
Well he'd better get over his stubbornness right now , if he don't we'll get another minister , that's all . 
Another minister ? You don't mean ? It was clear enough now . 
She recalled Douglas's troubled look of an hour ago . 
She remembered how he had asked if she couldn't go away . 
It was this that he meant when he promised not to give her up , no matter what happened . 
In an instant she was at the deacon's side pleading and terrified . 
It wasn't HIS fault that I kept staying on . 
He didn't know how to get rid of me . 
He DID try , he tried only to day . 
So he's comin' 'round , sneered Strong . 
Yes , yes , and you won't blame him any more , will you ? she hurried on anxiously . 
He talks pretty rough sometimes , but he's been a good enough minister . 
Oh , thank you , Mr. Strong , thank you . 
I'll get my things it won't take a minute . 
She was running up the steps when a sudden thought stopped her . 
She returned quickly to Strong . 
We'd better not let him know just yet . 
You can tell him afterward . 
Tell him that I ran away Tell him that She was interrupted by Douglas , who came from the house . 
Hello , Strong , back again ? he asked , in some surprise . 
Polly remained with her eyes fixed upon the deacon , searching for some way of escape . 
The pastor approached she burst into nervous laughter . 
What's the joke ? Douglas asked . 
It's only a little surprise that the deacon and I are planning . 
She tried to control the catch in her voice . 
You'll know about it soon , won't he , deacon ? Good afternoon , Mr. Strong ! She flew into the house , laughing hysterically . 
Douglas followed her to the steps with a puzzled frown . 
It was unlike Polly to give way to her moods before others . 
Have you gentlemen changed your minds about the little girl staying on ? he asked , uneasily . 
It's all right now , said Strong , seating himself with a complacent air . 
All right ? How so ? questioned Douglas , more and more puzzled by the deacon's evident satisfaction . 
Because , said Strong , rising and facing the pastor , because your circus ridin' gal is goin' to leave you of her own accord . 
Have you been talking to that girl ? asked Douglas , sternly . 
I have , said Strong , holding his ground . 
See here , deacon , if you've been browbeating that child , I may forget that I'm a minister . 
The knuckles on Douglas's large fists grew whiter . 
She's goin' , I tell yer , and it ain't because of what I said either . 
She's goin' back to the circus . 
You lie ! cried Douglas , taking a step toward the retreating deacon . 
There's the fellow now , cried Strong , as he pointed to the gate . 
Suppose you ask him afore yer call me a liar . 
Douglas turned quickly and saw Jim approaching . 
His face lighted up with relief at the sight of the big , lumbering fellow . 
How are yer , Mr. Douglas ? said Jim , awkwardly . 
You've seen Polly ? asked Douglas , shaking Jim cordially by the hand . 
Yes , I've seen her . 
The deacon here has an idea that Polly is going back to the circus with you . 
He nodded toward Strong , almost laughing at the surprise in store for him . 
Back to the circus ? asked Jim . 
Did she say anything to you about it ? He was worried by the bewilderment in Jim's manner . 
Before Jim could reply , Polly , who had reached the steps in time to catch the last few words , slipped quickly between them . 
She wore her coat and hat , and carried a small brown satchel . 
Of course I did , didn't I , Jim ? she said , turning her back upon the pastor and motioning to Jim not to answer . 
Douglas gazed at her in astonishment . 
What do you mean ? he asked in a hoarse , strained voice . 
He glanced at the coat and hat . 
Where are you going ? Polly avoided his eyes and continued nervously to Jim . 
What made you come back ? Why didn't you wait for me down the street ? Now , you've spoiled everything . 
She pretended to be very vexed with him . 
The big fellow looked puzzled . 
He tried to protest , but she put a warning finger to her lips and pressed the little brown satchel into his hand . 
It's no use , she went on hurriedly . 
We might as well tell them everything now . 
She turned to Douglas and pretended to laugh . 
You have found us out . 
The deacons were slightly uneasy the frown on Douglas's forehead was deepening . 
Oh , see how serious he looks , she teased , with a toss of her head toward the grim visaged pastor . 
Is this some trick ? he demanded , sternly . 
Don't be angry , she pleaded . 
She held out one small hand he did not take it . 
She wavered , then she felt the eyes of the deacons upon her . 
Courage returned and she spoke in a firm , clear voice I am going to run away . 
Douglas stepped before her and studied her keenly . 
Run away ? he exclaimed incredulously . 
Yes , to the circus with Jim . 
You couldn't DO such a thing , he answered , excitedly . 
Why , only a moment ago you told me you would never leave me . 
Oh , but that was a moment ago , she cried , in a strained , high voice . 
That was before Jim came . 
That's how the bells ring , Ting , ling , pretty young thing She paused , her hands clasped behind her head , and gazed at them with a brave , little smile . 
Oh , it's going to be fine ! Fine ! You don't know what you're doing , said Douglas . 
He seized her roughly by the arm . 
Pain was making him brutal . 
I won't LET you go ! Do you hear me ? I won't not until you've thought it over . 
I have thought it over , Polly answered , meeting his eyes and trying to speak lightly . 
She could not bear for him to think her so ungrateful . 
She remembered his great kindness the many thoughtful acts that had made the past year so precious to her . 
You've been awfully good to me , Mr. John . 
She tried to choke back a sob . 
I'll never forget it never ! I'll always feel the same toward you . 
But you mustn't ask me to stay . 
I want to get back to them that knew me first to my OWN ! Circus folks aren't cut out for parsons' homes , and I was born in the circus . 
Chapter XII LONELY days followed Polly's desertion of the parsonage . 
Mandy went about her duties very quietly , feeling that the little comments which once amused the pastor had now become an interruption to thoughts in which she had no part . 
He would sit for hours with his head in his hands , taking no notice of what passed before him . 
She tried to think of new dishes to tempt his appetite , and shook her head sadly as she bore the untasted food back to the kitchen . 
She sometimes found a portfolio of drawings lying open upon his study table . 
She marvelled at their reappearance now , but something in his set , far away look made her afraid to inquire . 
Thus she went on from day to day , growing more impatient with Hasty and more silent with the pastor . 
Mandy needed humor and companionship to oil the wheels of her humdrum life there was no more laughter in the house , and she began to droop . 
Polly had been away from the parsonage a month , when the complacency of the village was again upset by the arrival of the Great American Circus . 
There were many callers at the parsonage that day , for speculation was now at fever heat about the pastor . 
How dare any man be happy without me ? has been the cry of each woman since Eve was created to mate with Adam . 
Douglas had held himself more and more aloof from the day of Polly's disappearance . 
He expressed no opinion about the deacons or their recent disapproval of him . 
He had been absent all day , when Mandy looked out on the circus lot for the dozenth time , and saw that the afternoon performance was closing . 
She was anxiously waiting for him , when Deacon Strong knocked at the door for the second time that afternoon . 
Is Mr. Douglas back yet ? he asked . 
No , sah , he ain't , said Mandy , very shortly . 
She felt that Strong and Elverson had been a tryin' to spy on de parson all day , and she resented their visits more than she usually did . 
What time are you expectin' him ? I don't nebber spec' Massa Douglas till I sees him . 
Strong grunted uncivilly , and went down the steps . 
She saw from the window that he met Elverson in front of the church . 
Dey sure am a meanin' trouble , she mumbled . 
The band had stopped playing the last of the audience had straggled down the street . 
She opened the door and stood on the porch the house seemed to suffocate her . 
What was keeping Hasty ? He came at last , but Mandy could tell from his gait that he brought unwelcome news . 
Ain't she dar ? She's wid 'em , all right , said Hasty . 
Yuh seed her ? Naw , I didn't done SEED her . 
What ? She want in de show . 
What you jes' tell me ? She's a trabbelin' wid 'em , Mandy , but she didn't done ride . 
See heah , Hasty Jones , is dat ere chile sick ? I don' rightly know , said Hasty . 
Why didn't you done ask somebody ? Warn't nobody ter ask but de man what wuz hurryin' ever'body to get out of de tent . 
Go 'long out an' fix up dat ere kitchen fire , was Mandy's impatient reply . 
I got to keep dem vittels warm fer Massa John . 
She wished to be alone , so that she could think of some way to get hold of Polly . 
Dat baby faced mornin' glory done got Mandy all wobbly 'bout de heart , she declared to herself , as she crossed to the window for a sight of the pastor . 
It was nearly dark when she saw him coming slowly down the path from the hill . 
She lighted the study lamp , rearranged the cushions , and tried to make the room look cheery for his entrance . 
He stopped in the hall and hung up his hat . 
Would he shut himself in his room for the night , or would he come into the study ? At last the door opened and Mandy hastened to place a chair for him . 
Ah's 'fraid you'se mighty tired , she said . 
Oh , no , answered Douglas , absently . 
Mebbe you'd like Mandy to be sarvin' your supper in here to night . 
The side showman was already beginning his spiel in the lot below . 
The lemonade venders sic and the popcorn sellers were heard crying their wares . 
Douglas did not answer her . 
She bustled from the room , declaring she was jes' goin' ter bring him a morsel . 
He crossed to the window and looked out upon the circus lot . 
The flare of the torches and the red fire came up to meet his pale , tense face . 
How like the picture of thirteen months ago , he thought , and old Toby's words came back to him The show has got to go on . 
Above the church steeple , the moon was battling its way through the clouds . 
His eyes travelled from heaven to earth . 
There was a spirit of unreality in it all . 
Something made him mistrust himself , his very existence . 
He longed to have done with dreams and speculation , to feel something tangible , warm , and real within his grasp . 
I can't go on like this ! he cried . 
I can't ! He turned from the window and walked hurriedly up and down the room indoors or out , he found no rest . 
He threw himself in the armchair near the table , and sat buried in thought . 
Mandy came softly into the room . 
She was followed by Hasty , who carried a tray , laden with things that ought to have tempted any man . 
She motioned for Hasty to put the tray on the table , and then began arranging the dishes . 
Hasty stole to the window , and peeped out at the tempting flare of red fire . 
When Douglas discovered the presence of his two faithfuls he was touched with momentary contrition . 
He knew that he often neglected to chat with them now , and he made an effort to say something that might restore the old feeling of comradeship . 
Have you had a hard day with the new gravel walk ? he asked Hasty , remembering that he had been laying a fresh path to the Sunday school room . 
Hasty glanced uneasily at Mandy , afraid either to lie or tell the truth about the disposition she had made of his afternoon . 
Jes' you come eat yo' supper , Mandy called to Douglas . 
Don' yous worry your head 'bout dat lazy husban' ob mine . 
He ain' goin' ter work 'nuff . 
He only toyed with his food he was clearly ill at ease and eager to be alone . 
She gave up trying to tempt his appetite , and began to lead up in a roundabout way to the things which she wished to ask . 
Dar's quite some racket out dar in de lot tonight , she said Douglas did not answer . 
After a moment , she went on Hasty didn't work on no walk to day . 
Douglas looked at her quizzically , while Hasty , convinced that for reasons of her own she was going to get him into trouble , was making frantic motions . 
He done gone to de circus , she blurted out . 
Douglas's face became suddenly grave . 
Mandy saw that she had touched an open wound . 
I jes' couldn't stan' it , Massa John . 
I HAD to find out 'bout dat angel chile . 
She felt that he was waiting for her to go on . 
She didn't done ride to day . 
He looked up with the eyes of a dumb , persecuted animal . 
And de gemmen in de show didn't tell nobody why jes' speaked about de udder gal takin' her place . 
Why DIDN'T she ride ? cried Douglas , in an agony of suspense . 
Dat's what I don' know , sah . 
It was the first time in his experience that Douglas had ever known her to give way to any such weakness . 
He walked up and down the room , uncertain what to do . 
Hasty came down from the window and tried to put one arm about Mandy's shoulders . 
The band was playing loudly the din of the night performance was increasing . 
Douglas's nerves were strained to a point of breaking . 
He would not let himself go near the window . 
He stood by the side of the table , his fists clenched , and tried to beat back the impulse that was pulling him toward the door . 
Again and again he set his teeth . 
It was uncertainty that gnawed at him so . 
A moment later , he passed out into the night . 
Chapter XIII JIM was slow to night . 
The big show was nearly over , yet many of the props used in the early part of the bill were still unloaded . 
The cook tent was started half an hour late , and the side show top ain't loaded yet . 
Your wagons is on the bum , that's what ! Number thirty eight carries the cook tent and the blacksmith has been tinkering with it all day . 
Ask HIM what shape it's in . 
You're always stallin' , was Barker's sullen complaint . 
It's the wagons , or the black smiths , or anything but the truth . 
I know what's the matter , all right . 
What do you mean by that ? asked Jim , sharply . 
I mean that all your time's took up a carryin' and a fetchin' for that girl what calls you 'Muvver Jim . 
What have yer got to say about her ? Jim eyed him with a threatening look . 
She's been about as much good as a sick cat since she come back . 
You saw her act last night . 
Yes , answered Jim , doggedly . 
Wasn't it punk ? She didn't show at ALL this afternoon said she was sick . 
And me with all them people inside what knowed her , waitin' ter see 'er . 
Give her a little time , Jim pleaded . 
She ain't rode for a year . 
How much does she want ? She's been back a month and instead o' bracin' up , she's a gettin' worse . 
There's only one thing for me to do . 
What's that ? asked Jim , uneasily . 
I'm goin' ter call her , and call her hard . 
You can't bluff me , shouted Barker . 
I ain't bluffin' I'm only TELLIN' yer , said Jim , very quietly . 
Well , you TELL her to get onto her job . 
If she don't she quits , that's all . 
He hurried into the ring . 
Jim took one step to follow him , then stopped and gazed at the ground with thoughtful eyes . 
He , too , had seen the change in Polly . 
He had tried to rouse her it was no use . 
She had looked at him blankly . 
'If she would only complain , he said to himself . 
If she would only get mad , anything , anything to wake her . 
But she did not complain . 
She went through her daily routine very humbly and quietly . 
The memory of these times made Jim helpless to night . 
He had gone on hoping from day to day that Barker might not notice the let down in her work , and now the blow had fallen . 
How could he tell her ? One of the acts came tumbling out of the main tent . 
She looked very different from the little girl whom Jim had led away from the parson's garden in a simple , white frock one month before . 
Her thin , pensive face contrasted oddly with her glittering attire . 
Her hair was knotted high on her head a nd intertwined with flowers and jewels . 
Her slender neck seemed scarcely able to support its burden . 
Her short , full skirt and low cut bodice were ablaze with white and coloured stones . 
What's on , Jim ? she asked . 
You got plenty a' time . 
Polly's mind went back to the girl who answered that call a year ago . 
Her spirit seemed very near to night . 
Barker made his grandiloquent announcement about the wonderful act about to be seen , and her eyes wandered to the distant church steeple . 
The moonlight seemed to shun it to night . 
It looked cold and grim and dark . 
She wondered whether the solemn bell that once called its flock to worship had become as mute as her own dead heart . 
She did not hear the whirr of the great machine inside the tent , as it plunged through space with its girl occupant . 
These things were a part of the daily routine , part of the strange , vague dream through which she must stumble for the rest of her life . 
Jim watched her in silence . 
Her face was turned from him . 
She had forgotten his presence . 
Star gazin' , Poll ? he asked at length , dreading to disturb her revery . 
I guess I was , Jim . 
She turned to him with a little , forced smile . 
He longed to save her from Barker's threatened rebuke . 
How yer feelin' to night ? I'm all right , she answered , cheerfully Anythin' yer want ? Want ? she turned upon him with startled eyes . 
There was so much that she wanted , that the mere mention of the word had opened a well of pain in her heart . 
I mean , can I do anythin' for you ? Oh , of course not . 
She remembered how little ANY ONE could do . 
What is it , Poll ? he begged but she only turned away and shook her head with a sigh . 
He followed her with anxious eyes . 
Jim feared she might swoon . 
You don't mean that he was Oh , no , he answered , quickly , of course not . 
Parsons don't come to places like this one . 
I was only figurin' that yer didn't want OTHER folks to see yer and to tell him how you was ridin' . 
Was that it , Poll ? he urged . 
Was it ? I guess it was , she said , after a long time . 
I knowed it , he cried . 
I was a fool to a brung you back . 
Yer don't belong with us no more . 
Oh , don't , Jim ! don't ! Don't make me feel I'm in the way here , too ! Here , too ? He looked at her in astonishment . 
Yer wasn't in HIS way , was yer , Poll ? Yes , Jim . 
She saw his look of unbelief and continued hurriedly . 
Oh , I tried not to be . 
He used to read me verses out of a Bible about my way being his way and my people his people , but it isn't so , Jim . 
YOU was changin' it , he answered , savagely . 
You was gettin' jes' like them people . 
It was me what took yer away and spoiled it all . 
You oughtn't to a come . 
What made yer , after yer said yer wouldn't ? She did not answer . 
Strange things were going through the mind of the slow witted Jim . 
He braced himself for a difficult question . 
Will yer answer me somethin' straight ? he asked . 
Why , of course , she said as she met his gaze . 
Do you love the parson , Poll ? She started . 
Is that it ? Her lids fluttered and closed , she caught her breath quickly , her lips apart , then looked far into the distance . 
Yes , Jim , I'm afraid that's it . 
The little figure drooped , and she stood before him with lowered eyes , unarmed . 
Jim looked at her helplessly , then shook his big , stupid head . 
Ain't that hell ? It seemed such a short time to Jim since he had picked her up , a cooing babe , at her dead mother's side . 
He watched the tender , averted face . 
Things had turned out so differently from what he had planned . 
And he didn't care about you like that ? he asked , after a pause . 
No , not in that way . 
She was anxious to defend the pastor from even the thought of such a thing . 
He was good and kind always , but he didn't care THAT WAY . 
I guess I'll have a talk with him , said Jim , and he turned to go . 
He stopped and looked at her in astonishment . 
It was the first time that he had ever heard that sharp note in her voice . 
Her tiny figure was stiffened with decision . 
If you ever DARE to speak to him about me , you'll never see me again . 
I mean it , Jim . 
I've made my choice , and I've come back to you . 
If you ever try to fix up things between him and me , I'll run away really and truly away and you'll never , never get me back . 
He shuffled awkwardly to her side and reached apologetically for the little , clenched fist . 
He held it in his big , rough hand , toying nervously with the tiny fingers . 
I wouldn't do nothin' that you wasn't a wantin' , Poll . 
I was just a tryin' to help yer , only I I never seem to know how . 
She turned to him with tear dimmed eyes , and rested her hands on his great , broad shoulders , and he saw the place where he dwelt in her heart . 
Chapter XIV THE Leap of Death implements were being carried from the ring , and Jim turned away to superintend their loading . 
Performers again rushed by each other on their way to and from the main tent . 
Polly stood in the centre of the lot , frowning and anxious . 
The mere mention of the pastor's name had made it seem impossible for her to ride to night . 
For hours she had been whipping herself up to the point of doing it , and now her courage failed her . 
She followed Barker as he came from the ring . 
Mr. Barker , please ! He turned upon her sharply . 
Well , what is it NOW ? I want to ask you to let me off again to night . 
She spoke in a short , jerky , desperate way . 
Not go into the ring , with all them people inside what's paid their money a cause they knowed yer ? That's it , she cried . 
I can't ! I can't ! YER gettin' too tony ! Barker sneered . 
That's the trouble with you . 
You ain't been good for nothin' since you was at that parson's house . 
Yer didn't stay there , and yer no use here . 
First thing yer know yer'll be out all 'round . 
Yer don't think I'm goin' ter head my bill with a 'dead one , do you ? I am not a 'dead one , she answered , excitedly . 
I'm the best rider you've had since mother died . 
'That was afore yer got in with them church cranks . 
You talk about yer mother ! Why , she'd be ashamed ter own yer . 
She wouldn't , cried Polly . 
Her eyes were flashing , her face was scarlet . 
The pride of hundreds of years of ancestry was quivering with indignation . 
I can ride as well as I EVER could , and I'll do it , too . 
I'll do it to morrow . 
To morrow ? echoed Barker . 
What do you mean by that ? I mean that I CAN'T go into that ring TO NIGHT , she declared , and I won't . 
She was desperate now , and trading upon a strength beyond her own . 
He looked at her with momentary indecision . 
She WAS a good rider the best since her mother , as he had often told her . 
He could see this meant an issue . 
He felt she would be on her mettle to morrow , as far as her work was concerned , if he left her alone to night . 
All right , he said , sullenly . 
Yer can stay off to night . 
I got the crowd in there , anyway , and I got their money . 
I'll let Eloise do a turn on Barbarian , but TO MORROW you'd better show me your old act . 
I'll show you ! she cried . 
I'll show you ! Well , see that you do . 
He crossed into the ring . 
Polly stood where Barker had left her , white and tense . 
Jim came toward her from the direction of the wagons . 
He glanced at her uneasily . 
What's he been a sayin' ter you ? He says I can't ride any more . 
She stared straight ahead of her . 
He says I was no good to the people that took me in , and I'm no use here . 
It's not so ! thundered Jim . 
No it's not ! she cried . 
I'll show him , Jim ! I'll show him to morrow ! She turned toward the dressing tent Jim caught her firmly by the wrist . 
Wait , Poll ! You ain't ever goin' into the ring a feelin' THAT WAY . 
Her eyes met his , defiantly . 
What's the difference ? What's the difference ? She wrenched her wrist quickly from him , and ran into the dressing tent laughing hysterically . 
And I brung her back to it , mumbled Jim as he turned to give orders to the property men . 
Most of the first half props were loaded , and some of the men were asleep under the wagons . 
Suddenly he felt some one approaching from the back of the enclosure . 
He turned and found himself face to face with the stern , solitary figure of the pastor , wrapped in his long , black cloak . 
The moonlight slipped through a rift in the clouds , and fell in a circle around them . 
What made you come here ? was all Jim said . 
I heard that Miss Polly didn't ride to day . 
I was afraid she might be ill . 
What's that to you ? She ISN'T ill ? Douglas demanded anxiously , oblivious to the gruffness in the big fellow's voice . 
She's all right , Jim answered shortly as he shifted uneasily from one foot to the other , and avoided the pastor's burning gaze . 
And she's happy ? she's content ? Sure . 
I'm glad , said Douglas , dully . 
He tried to think of some way to prolong their talk . 
I've never heard from her , you know . 
Us folks don't get much time to write . 
Jim turned away and began tinkering with one of the wagons . 
He crossed to Jim and came determinedly to the point . 
Can't I see her , Jim ? It's agin the rules . 
There was another pause , then Douglas started slowly out of the lot . 
Wait a minute , called Jim , as though the words had been wrung from him . 
The pastor came back with a question in his eyes . 
She's NOT well , then ? Oh , yes , she's well enough . 
It ain't that it's about her being happy . 
She isn't ? There was a note of unconscious exultation in his voice . 
No. She AIN'T happy here , and she WAS happy WITH YOU . 
Then , why did she leave me ? I don't know . 
She wasn't goin' ter do it at first . 
Somethin' must a happened afterwards , somethin' that you an' me didn't know about . 
We WILL know about it , Jim . 
Where is she ? His quick eye searched the lot . 
His voice had regained it's old command . 
He felt that he could conquer worlds . 
You can't do no good that way , answered Jim . 
She don't want ter see you again . 
Why not ? I don't know , but she told me she'd run away if I ever even talked to you about her . 
You needn't talk , Jim I'll talk for myself . 
Where is she ? She'll be comin' out soon . 
You can wait around out here with me . 
I'll let you know in time . 
He led the way through a narrow passage between the wagons . 
Jim and Douglas had barely left the lot when Deacon Elverson's small , round head slipped cautiously around the corner of the dressing tent . 
The little deacon glanced exultantly about him . 
He was monarch of all he surveyed . 
Did you see him ? shouted Strong , who had followed closely upon Elverson's heels . 
Strong was certainly a disturbing factor at times . 
Yes , I I saw him . 
Well ? He he didn't see HER . 
What DID he do ? Strong was beside himself with impatience . 
He he just talked to the big 'un , and went out that way . 
Elverson nodded toward the wagons . 
I guess he ain't gone far , sneered Strong . 
He come over to this lot to see her , and he ain't goin' ter give up till he does it . 
You wait here I'll take a look round . 
He went quickly in the direction of the wagons . 
Elverson needed no second invitation to wait . 
He was congratulating himself upon his good fortune , when he all but collided with a flying apparition , vanishing in the direction of the main tent . 
He saw the limp coat tails of the deacon , who was three quarters in the tent . 
Here was a chance to make a funny entrance . 
He grabbed the unsuspecting little man from the rear . 
Strong returned almost immediately from his unsuccessful search for the pastor . 
He looked about the lot for Elverson . 
Hey , there , Elverson ! he called lustily . 
Now where's he got to , grumbled Strong . 
He disappeared quickly around the corner of the dressing tent , resolved to keep a sharp lookout for Douglas . 
Elverson was thrust from the tent soon after , spitting sawdust and much discomfited by the laughing performers who followed him . 
His knees almost gave way beneath him when Barker came out of the ring , snapping his long , black whip . 
Get out of here , you bloke ! roared Barker . 
No one had remembered to tell the groom that Polly was not to ride to night . 
So Bingo was brought out as usual , when their turn approached . 
Take him back , Tom , Polly called from the entrance , when she learned that Bingo was waiting , and bring Barbarian . 
I'm not going on to night . 
Eloise is going to ride in my place . 
This was the second time to day that Bingo had been led away without going into the ring . 
Something in his big , wondering eyes made Polly follow him and apologise . 
He was very proud , was Bingo , and very conscientious . 
He felt uneasy when he saw the other horses going to their work without him . 
Never mind , Bingo , she said , patting his great , arched neck , we'll show 'em to morrow . 
He rubbed his satiny nose against her cheek . 
We'll make them SIT UP again . 
Barker says our act's no good that I've let down . 
But it's not YOUR fault , Bingo . 
I've not been fair to you . 
I'll give you a chance to morrow . 
He'll never say it again , Bingo ! Never again ! She watched him go out of the lot , and laughed a little as he nipped the attendant on the arm . 
He was still irritated at not going into the ring . 
Polly had nothing more to do to night except to get into her street clothes . 
The wagons would soon be moving away . 
For a moment she glanced at the dark church steeple , then she turned to go inside the tent . 
A deep , familiar voice stopped her . 
Polly ! She turned quickly . 
He gazed at her in amazement . 
She drew her cape about her slightly clad figure . 
She seemed older to him , more unapproachable with her hair heaped high and sparkling with jewels . 
Her bodice of satin and lace shimmered through the opening of her cape . 
The moonlight lent mystery and indecision to her betinselled attire . 
The band was playing the andante for the balancing act . 
She found strength at last to open her lips , but still no sound came from them . 
She and the pastor looked at each other strangely , like spirits newly met from far apart worlds . 
She , too , thought her companion changed . 
He was older , the circles beneath his eyes were deeper , the look in their depths more grave . 
We were such close neighbours to day , I I rather thought you'd call , he stammered . 
He was uncertain what he was saying it did not matter he was there with her . 
When you're in a circus there isn't much time for calling . 
That's why I've come to call on you . 
They might have been sheppherd and sheppherdess on a May day wooing , for the halting way in which their words came . 
You're all right ? he went on . 
You're happy ? Yes , very , she said . 
He did not believe her , the effort in her voice , her drawn , white face belied her words . 
How COULD he get the truth from her ? Jim said you might not want to see me . 
Has Jim been talking to you ? Yes , but I didn't let him stop me , for you told me the day you left that you'd never change toward me . 
Have you , Poll ? He studied her , anxiously . 
Why , no , of course not , she said , evasively . 
And you'll be quite frank when I ask you something ? Yes , of course . 
She was growing more and more uneasy . 
She glanced about for a way of escape . 
Why did you leave me as you did ? I told you then . 
She tried to cross toward the dressing tent . 
He stepped quickly in front of her . 
You aren't answering FRANKLY , and you aren't happy . 
She felt she must get away , anywhere , anywhere . 
He seized her small wrists and forced her to look at him . 
And I am not happy without YOU , and I never , NEVER can be . 
The floodgates were open , his eyes were aglow , he bent toward her eagerly . 
Oh , you mustn't , she begged . 
You've grown so close , he cried . 
So close ! She struggled to be free . 
He did not heed her . 
You know you must know what I mean . 
He drew her toward him and forced her into his arms . 
You're more precious to me than all else on this earth . 
For the first time he saw the extreme pallor on her face . 
He felt her growing limp and lifeless in his arms . 
A doubt crossed his mind . 
You'll be going on your way in an hour . 
The voice of Deacon Strong answered for her . 
As for you , miss , continued Strong , with an insolent nod toward Polly , I might have known how you'd keep your part of the bargain . 
What bargain ? Oh , please , Deacon Strong , please . 
I didn't mean to see him , I didn't , truly . 
She hardly knew what she was saying . 
What bargain ? demanded Douglas sternly . 
She told me that you and her wasn't ever goin' ter see each other agin , roared Strong . 
If I'd a knowed she was goin' to keep on with this kind o' thing , you wouldn't er got off so easy . 
So ! That's it ! cried Douglas . 
It was all clear to him now . 
He recalled everything , her hysterical behaviour , her laughter , her tears . 
It was you who drove that child back to this . 
The narrow shoulders were bent forward . 
The nervous little fingers were clasping and unclasping each other . 
Never before had she seemed so small and helpless . 
Oh , please , Mr. John , please ! Don't make him any worse ! Why didn't you tell me ? he demanded . 
It would have done no good , she sobbed . 
Oh , why why won't you leave me alone ? It would have done all the good in the world . 
What right had he to send you back to this ? I had every right , said Strong , stubbornly . 
Your duty ? Your narrow minded bigotry ! I don't allow no man to talk to me like that , not even my parson . 
I'm NOT your parson any longer , declared Douglas . 
He was master of his own affairs at last . 
Polly clung to him , begging and beseeching . 
Oh , Mr. John ! Mr. John ! What do you mean by that ? shouted Strong . 
I mean that I stayed with you and your narrow minded congregation before , because I believed you needed me . 
But now this girl needs me more . 
She needs me to protect her from just such injustice as yours . 
You'd better be protectin' YOURSELF . 
That's my advice to you . 
I can do that WITHOUT your advice . 
Maybe you can find another church with that circus ridin' girl a hangin' 'round your neck . 
He's right , cried Polly . 
She clung to the pastor in terrified entreaty . 
You COULDN'T get another church . 
They'd never , never forgive you . 
You've got to let me go ! you've GOT to ! Listen , Polly . 
He drew her toward him . 
God is greater than any church or creed . 
There's work to be done EVERYWHERE HIS work . 
You'll soon find out about that , thundered Strong . 
So I will , answered Douglas , with his head thrown high . 
This child has opened a new world to me she has shown me a broader , deeper humanity she and I will find the way together . 
It won't be an easy one , I'll promise you that . 
I'm not looking for the easy way ! Douglas called after him , then he turned to draw Polly's arm within his but Polly had slipped from his side to follow the deacon . 
Oh , please , Deacon Strong , please ! she pleaded . 
You won't go away like that . 
He'll be all right if you'll only wait . 
I'm going on with the show , to night , and I'm going this time FOREVER . 
You are going to stay here with me , cried Douglas . 
No , no , Mr. John . 
I've made up my mind , and I won't be to blame for your unhappiness . 
She faced him firmly now . 
I don't belong to your world , and I don't want to try any more . 
I'm what he called me I'm a circus riding girl . 
I was born in the circus , and I'll never change . 
That's my work riding , and it's yours to preach . 
You must do your work , and I'LL do MINE . 
She started toward the ring . 
Eloise and Barbarian were already waiting at the entrance Eloise ! She took one step toward her , then stopped at the sound of Barker's voice . 
Ladies and gentlemen , he called . 
Eloise put her hands on the horse's back to mount . 
No ! No ! cried Polly . 
The other girl turned in astonishment at the agony in her voice . 
Polly ! Wait , Eloise ! I'M going to ride ! You can't , not Barbarian ! He don't know your turn . 
So much the better ! She seized the bridle from the frightened girl's hand . 
He had followed her to the entrance . 
I must ! I will ! She flew into the ring before he could stop her . 
He took one step to follow her . 
You'd better let her alone and get out o' here , said Strong . 
His voice was like a firebrand to Douglas . 
He turned upon him , white with rage . 
You drove her to this . 
He drew back to strike . 
Jim came from behind the wagons just in time to catch the uplifted arm . 
Leave HIM to ME , this ain't no parson's job . 
The pastor lowered his arm , but kept his threatening eyes on the deacon's face . 
Where's Poll ? asked Jim . 
In there ! Douglas pointed toward the main tent without turning his head . 
He was still glaring at the deacon , and breathing hard . 
What ? cried Jim , in alarm . 
He faced about and saw Eloise . 
A few quick strides brought him to the entrance curtains . 
He threw them back and looked into the ring . 
My God ! Why don't Barker stop her ? What is it ? called Douglas . 
He forgot the deacon in his terror at Jim's behaviour , and Strong was able to slip away , unnoticed . 
She's goin' ter ride ! She's goin' ter ride Barbarian ! Douglas crossed to his side and looked . 
Polly was springing onto the back of Barbarian . 
He was a poorly trained horse , used by the other girl for more showy , but less dangerous feats than Polly's . 
She's goin' through her regular turn with him , she's tryin' ter break her neck , said Jim . 
She wants ter do it . 
It's your fault ! he cried , turning upon Douglas with bloodshot eyes . 
He was half insane , he cared little whom he wounded . 
Why can't we stop her ? cried Douglas , unable to endure the strain . 
He took one step inside the entrance . 
No , no not that ! Jim dragged him back roughly . 
If she sees you now , it will be the end . 
She's over the first part , Jim whispered , at last . 
Douglas drew back , his muscles tense , as he watched the scene inside the ring . 
Eloise stood at the pastor's side , horror stricken at Polly's reckless behaviour . 
It was easy to guess the end . 
She's comin' to the hoops , Jim whispered , hoarsely . 
Barbarian don't know that part , I never trained him , the other girl said . 
Polly made the first leap toward the hoops . 
The horse was not at fault it was Polly . 
She plunged wildly , the audience started . 
She caught her footing with an effort . 
One , two , three hoops were passed . 
She threw herself across the back of the horse and hung , head downward , as he galloped around the ring . 
The band was playing loudly , the people were cheering . 
She rose to meet the last two hoops . 
She's swayin' , Jim shrieked in agony . 
He covered his face with his hands . 
Polly reeled and fell at the horse's side . 
She mounted and fell again . 
She rose and staggered in pursuit . 
I can't bear it , groaned Douglas . 
Barker brought the performance to a halt with a crack of his whip . 
The audience stood on tiptoe . 
White faced clowns and gaily attired acrobats crowded around Polly and the pastor . 
Douglas did not see them . 
He had come into his own . 
He's bringin' her out , whispered Eloise , who still watched at the entrance . 
Jim dared not look up , his head was still in his hands . 
Is it over ? he groaned . 
She stepped aside as Douglas came out of the tent , followed by a swarm of performers . 
He knelt on the soft grass and rested Polly's head upon his knee . 
The others pressed about them . 
It seemed to Douglas that he waited hours then her white lids quivered and opened and the colour crept back to her lips . 
It's all right , Jim ! called one of the men from the crowd . 
The big fellow had waited in his tracks for the verdict . 
Polly's eyes looked up into those of the parson a thrill shot through his veins . 
It was no use , was it ? She shook her head with a sad little smile . 
He knew that she was thinking of her failure to get out of his way . 
That's because I need you so much , Polly , that God won't let you go away from me . 
He drew her nearer to him , and the warm blood that shot to her cheeks brought back her strength . 
She rose unsteadily , and looked about her . 
Jim came toward her , white and trembling . 
All right , Poll ? Oh , Muvver Jim ! She threw herself into his arms and clung to him , sobbing weakly . 
When the last wagon was beginning to climb the long , winding road of the moon lit hill , Jim turned to Polly , who stood near the side of the deserted ring . 
His eyes travelled from her to the parson , who waited near her . 
She was in her street clothes now , the little brown Quakerish dress which she had chosen to wear so much since her return from the parsonage . 
I guess I won't be makin' no mistake this time , he said , and he placed her hand in that of the parson . 
Good bye , Muvver Jim , faltered Polly . 
He stooped and touched her forehead with his lips . 
A mother's spirit breathed through his kiss . 
I'm glad it's like this , he said , then turned away and followed the long , dotted line of winding lights disappearing slowly over the hill . 
Her eyes travelled after him . 
Douglas touched the cold , little hand at her side . 
I belong with them , she said , still gazing after Jim and the wagons . 
You belong with me , he answered in a firm , grave voice , and something in the deep , sure tones told her that he was speaking the truth . 
She lifted one trembling hand to his shoulder , and looked up into his face . 
Whither thou goest , will I go , where thou diest , will I die . 
He drew her into his arms . 
The Lord do so to me and more also , if aught but death part thee and me . 
