The date of my departure had been set I was to leave in two weeks . 
And then came a letter that started me for Africa twelve days ahead of my schedule . 
Often am I in receipt of letters from strangers who have found something in a story of mine to commend or to condemn . 
My interest in this department of my correspondence is ever fresh . 
I opened this particular letter with all the zest of pleasurable anticipation with which I had opened so many others . 
Before the reading of that letter was completed lions and lion hunting had fled my thoughts , and I was in a state of excitement bordering upon frenzy . 
It well , read it yourself , and see if you , too , do not find food for frantic conjecture , for tantalizing doubts , and for a great hope . 
Here it is DEAR SIR I think that I have run across one of the most remarkable coincidences in modern literature . 
But let me start at the beginning I am , by profession , a wanderer upon the face of the earth . 
I have no trade nor any other occupation . 
My father bequeathed me a competency some remoter ancestors lust to roam . 
I have combined the two and invested them carefully and without extravagance . 
You will pardon my candor , but it is necessary that you understand my mental attitude toward this particular story that you may credit that which fol lows . 
My chase led me far from the haunts of man . 
It was an intermittent ticking ! No reptile or insect with which I am familiar re produces any such notes . 
I lay for an hour listening intently . 
At last my curiosity got the better of me . 
I arose , lighted my lamp and commenced to investigate . 
My bedding lay upon a rug stretched directly upon the warm sand . 
The noise appeared to be coming from beneath the rug . 
I raised it , but found nothing yet , at intervals , the sound continued . 
I dug into the sand with the point of my hunting knife . 
A few inches below the surface of the sand I encountered a solid substance that had the feel of wood beneath the sharp steel . 
Excavating about it , I unearthed a small wooden box . 
From this receptacle issued the strange sound that I had heard . 
My first impulse was to drag the thing loose by main strength but fortunately I thought better of this and fell to examining the box . 
I soon saw that it was covered by a hinged lid , which was held closed by a simple screwhook and eye . 
It took but a moment to loosen this and raise the cover , when , to my utter astonishment , I discovered an ordinary telegraph instrument clicking away within . 
I picked it up and examined it . 
Upon it were written but two letters D. I. They meant nothing to me then . 
Once , in an interval of silence upon the part of the receiving instrument , I moved the sending key up and down a few times . 
Instantly the receiving mechanism commenced to work frantically . 
I tried to recall something of the Morse Code , with which I had played as a little boy but time had obliterated it from my memory . 
I became almost frantic as I let my imagination run riot among the possibilities for which this clicking instrument might stand . 
Some poor devil at the unknown other end might be in dire need of succor . 
The very franticness of the instrument's wild clashing betokened something of the kind . 
And there sat I , powerless to interpret , and so power less to help ! It was then that the inspiration came to me . 
Experience and in telligence combined to assure me that there could be no slightest grain of truth or possibility in your wild tale it was fiction pure and simple . 
I smiled at my imaginings . 
I ridiculed the assumption that there was an inner world and that these wires led downward through the earth's crust to the surface of Pellucidar . 
In writing you this letter I feel that I am making a fool of myself . 
There is no David Innes . 
There is no Dian the Beautiful . 
There is no world within a world . 
Pellucidar is but a realm of your imagination noth ing more . 
BUT The incident of the finding of that buried telegraph instrument upon the lonely Sahara is little short of uncanny , in view of your story of the adventures of David Innes . 
I have called it one of the most remarkable coinci dences in modern fiction . 
I called it literature before , but again pardon my candor your story is not . 
I cannot hear it now , yet I know that far away to the south , all alone beneath the sands , it is still pounding out its vain , frantic appeal . 
It is maddening It is your fault I want you to release me from it . 
Cable me at once , at my expense , that there was no basis of fact for your story , At the Earth's Core . 
Very respectfully yours , COGDON NESTOR , and Club , Algiers . 
Ten minutes after reading this letter I had cabled Mr. Nestor as follows Story true . 
As fast as train and boat would carry me , I sped toward my destination . 
For all those dragging days my mind was a whirl of mad conjecture , of frantic hope , of numbing fear . 
A moment later I was ushered into his presence , to find myself clasping hands with the sort of chap that the world holds only too few of . 
He was a tall , smooth faced man of about thirty , clean cut , straight , and strong , and weather tanned to the hue of a desert Arab . 
In addition to our native servants , we took along an English telegraph operator named Frank Downes . 
Nothing of interest enlivened our journey by rail and caravan till we came to the cluster of date palms about the ancient well upon the rim of the Sahara . 
It was the very spot at which I first had seen David Innes . 
If he had ever raised a cairn above the telegraph instrument no sign of it remained now . 
After several days of futile endeavor to raise Pellucidar , we had be gun to despair . 
Leaping to my feet I grasped Downes roughly by the neck and dragged him out of his blankets . 
Nestor was on his feet almost as soon as I. The three of us huddled about that little box as if our lives depended upon the message it had for us . 
Downes interrupted the clicking with his sending key . 
The noise of the receiver stopped instantly . 
Ask who it is , Downes , I directed . 
He did so , and while we awaited the Englishman's translation of the reply , I doubt if either Nestor or I breathed . 
He says he's David Innes , said Downes . 
He wants to know who we are . 
Tell him , said I and that we want to know how he is and all that has befallen him since I last saw him . 
For two months I talked with David Innes almost every day , and as Downes translated , either Nestor or I took notes . 
From these , arranged in chronological order , I have set down the following account of the further adventures of David Innes at the earth's core , practically in his own words . 
Nor less so did the mighty subterranean prospector which had carried me to Pellucidar and back again , and which lay out in the desert about two miles from my camp . 
For some time I hesitated to take the Mahar back with me . 
She had been docile and quiet ever since she had discovered herself virtually a prisoner aboard the iron mole . 
Naturally I am kind hearted , and so I found it beyond me to leave even this hateful and repulsive thing alone in a strange and hostile world . 
The result was that when I entered the iron mole I took her with me . 
Our trip through the earth's crust was but a repetition of my two former journeys between the inner and the outer worlds . 
just a trifle less than seventy two hours after our departure into the sands of the Sahara , we broke through the surface of Pellucidar . 
The perpetual midday sun poured down its torrid rays from zenith , as it had done since the beginning of Pellucidarian time as it would continue to do to the end of it . 
How strange it looked ! How vastly different from the flat and puny area of the circumscribed vision of the dweller upon the outer crust ! I was lost . 
Though I wandered ceaselessly throughout a lifetime , I might never discover the whereabouts of my former friends of this strange and savage world . 
Mysterious and terrible , grotesque and savage though she is in many of her aspects , I can not but love her . 
Her very savagery appealed to me , for it is the savagery of unspoiled Nature . 
The magnificence of her tropic beauties enthralled me . 
Her mighty land areas breathed unfettered free dom . 
Her untracked oceans , whispering of virgin wonders unsullied by the eye of man , beckoned me out upon their restless bosoms . 
Not for an instant did I regret the world of my nativity . 
For a long time she remained motionless . 
What thoughts were passing through the convolutions of her reptilian brain ? I do not know . 
She was a member of the dominant race of Pel lucidar . 
By a strange freak of evolution her kind had first developed the power of reason in that world of anomalies . 
To her , creatures such as I were of a lower order . 
Her kind believed that in the center of all pervading solidity there was a single , vast , spherical cavity , which was Pellucidar . 
This cavity had been left there for the sole purpose of providing a place for the creation and propagation of the Mahar race . 
Everything within it had been put there for the uses of the Mahar . 
I wondered what this particular Mahar might think now . 
The stationary sun hangs forever in the center of the Pellucidarian sky directly overhead . 
Then , too , she must have been impressed by the wondrous mechanism of the prospector which had bored its way from world to world and back again . 
And that it had been driven by a rational being must also have occurred to her . 
Too , she bad seen me conversing with other men upon the earth's surface . 
There could have been but a single deduction in the mind of the Mahar there were other worlds than Pellucidar , and the gilak was a rational being . 
Now the creature at my side was creeping slowly toward the near by sea . 
I could have shot the Mahar with ease , for I knew intuitively that she was escaping but I did not . 
At the edge of the sea the creature paused and looked back at me . 
Then she slid sinuously into the surf . 
For several minutes I saw no more of her as she luxuriated in the cool depths . 
Then a hundred yards from shore she rose and there for another short while she floated upon the surface . 
Finally she spread her giant wings , flapped them vigorously a score of times and rose above the blue sea . 
A single time she circled far aloft and then straight as an arrow she sped away . 
I watched her until the distant haze enveloped her and she had disappeared . 
My first concern was to discover where within Pel lucidar I might be and in what direction lay the land of the Sarians where Ghak the Hairy One ruled . 
I reentered the prospector and fetched a compass without . 
Moving a considerable distance from the prospector that the needle might not be influenced by its great bulk of iron and steel I turned the delicate instrument about in every direction . 
Always and steadily the needle remained rigidly fixed upon a point straight out to sea , apparently pointing toward a large island some ten or twenty miles distant . 
This then should be north . 
I drew my note book from my pocket and made a careful topographical sketch of the locality within the range of my vision . 
Due north lay the island , far out upon the shimmering sea . 
The spot I had chosen for my observations was the top of a large , flat boulder which rose six or eight feet above the turf . 
This spot I called Greenwich . 
The boulder was the Royal Observatory . 
It was with almost childish joy that I made a little circle in my note book and traced the word Greenwich beside it . 
Now I felt I might start out upon my search with some assurance of finding my way back again to the prospector . 
I decided that at first I would travel directly south in the hope that I might in that direction find some familiar landmark . 
It was as good a direction as any . 
This much at least might be said of it . 
Among the many other things I had brought from the outer world were a number of pedometers . 
I slipped three of these into my pockets with the idea that I might arrive at a more or less accurate mean from the registrations of them all . 
On my map I would register so many paces south , so many east , so many west , and so on . 
When I was ready to return I would then do so by any route that I might choose . 
Due south I traveled , across lovely valleys thick dotted with graz ing herds . 
Through dense primeval forests I forced my way and up the slopes of mighty mountains searching for a pass to their farther sides . 
Ibex and musk sheep fell before my good old revolver , so that I lacked not for food in the higher altitudes . 
The forests and the plains gave plentifully of fruits and wild birds , antelope , aurochsen , and elk . 
Occasionally , for the larger game animals and the gigantic beasts of prey , I used my express rifle , but for the most part the revolver filled all my needs . 
I ate many times , however , so that days must have elapsed , possibly months with no familiar landscape rewarding my eager eyes . 
I saw no men nor signs of men . 
Nor is this strange , for Pellucidar , in its land area , is immense , while the human race there is very young and consequently far from numerous . 
Doubtless upon that long search mine was the first human foot to touch the soil in many places mine the first human eye to rest upon the gorgeous wonders of the landscape . 
It was a staggering thought . 
I could not but dwell upon it often as I made my lonely way through this virgin world . 
Then , quite suddenly , one day I stepped out of the peace of manless primality into the presence of man and peace was gone . 
It happened thus I had been following a ravine downward out of a chain of lofty hills and had paused at its mouth to view the lovely little valley that lay before me . 
At one side was tangled wood , while straight ahead a river wound peacefully along parallel to the cliffs in which the hills terminated at the valley's edge . 
That the harsh , discordant notes rose from the throats of men I could not doubt . 
I slipped behind a large boulder near the mouth of the ravine and waited . 
I could hear the crashing of underbrush in the forest , and I guessed that whoever came came quickly pursued and pursuers , doubtless . 
I had seen the thing so many times during my life within Pellucidar that I felt that I could anticipate to a nicety precisely what I was about to witness . 
I hoped that the hunters would prove friendly and be able to direct me toward Sari . 
Even as I was thinking these thoughts the quarry emerged from the forest . 
But it was no terrified four footed beast . 
Close behind the foremost Sagoth came others until a full dozen raced , shouting after the terror stricken old man . 
They would be upon him shortly , that was plain . 
One of them was rapidly overhauling him , his back thrown spear arm testifying to his purpose . 
And then , quite with the suddenness of an unex pected blow , I realized a past familiarity with the gait and carriage of the fugitive . 
Dian , of course , I looked upon as more than friend . 
She was my mate a part of me . 
I had entirely forgotten the rifle in my hand and the revolvers at my belt one does not readily syn chronize his thoughts with the stone age and the twentieth century simultaneously . 
Now from past habit I still thought in the stone age , and in my thoughts of the stone age there were no thoughts of firearms . 
The fellow was almost upon Perry when the feel of the gun in my hand awoke me from the lethargy of terror that had gripped me . 
At the sound of the shot he stopped stock still . 
His spear dropped from his hand . 
Then he lunged forward upon his face . 
The effect upon the others was little less remarkable . 
Perry alone could have possibly guessed the meaning of the loud report or explained its connection with the sudden collapse of the Sagoth . 
The other gorilla men halted for but an instant . 
Then with renewed shrieks of rage they sprang forward to finish Perry . 
At the same time I stepped from behind my boul der , drawing one of my revolvers that I might conserve the more precious ammunition of the express rifle . 
Quickly I fired again with the lesser weapon . 
Then it was that all eyes were directed toward me . 
Another Sagoth fell to the bullet from the revolver but it did not stop his companions . 
They were out for revenge as well as blood now , and they meant to have both . 
As I ran forward toward Perry I fired four more shots , dropping three of our antagonists . 
Then at last the remaining seven wavered . 
It was too much for them , this roaring death that leaped , invisible , upon them from a great distance . 
As they hesitated I reached Perry's side . 
I have never seen such an expression upon any man's face as that upon Perry's when he recognized me . 
I have no words wherewith to describe it . 
There was not time to talk then scarce for a greeting . 
I thrust the full , loaded revolver into his hand , fired the last shot in my own , and reloaded . 
There were but six Sagoths left then . 
They started toward us once more , though I could see that they were terrified probably as much by the noise of the guns as by their effects . 
Half way the three that remained turned and fled , and we let them go . 
The last we saw of them they were disappearing into the tangled undergrowth of the forest . 
And then Perry turned and threw his arms about my neck and , burying his old face upon my shoulder , wept like a child . 
CHAPTER II TRAVELING WITH TERROR We made camp there beside the peaceful river . 
There Perry told me all that had befallen him since I had departed for the outer crust . 
It seemed that Hooja had made it appear that I had intentionally left Dian behind , and that I did not purpose ever returning to Pellucidar . 
He told them that I was of another world and that I had tired of this and of its inhabitants . 
Shortly afterward Dian had disappeared from the camp , nor had Perry seen or heard aught of her since . 
He had no conception of the time that had elapsed since I had departed , but guessed that many years had dragged their slow way into the past . 
Hooja , too , had disappeared very soon after Dian had left . 
The result had been that these two powerful tribes had fallen upon one another with the new weapons that Perry and I had taught them to make and to use . 
Other tribes of the new federation took sides with the original disputants or set up petty revolutions of their own . 
The result was the total demolition of the work we had so well started . 
And thus , your majesty , he concluded , has faded back into the oblivion of the Stone Age our wondrous dream and with it has gone the First Empire of Pel lucidar . 
But first I would find my empress . 
To me she was worth forty empires . 
Have you no clue as to the whereabouts of Dian ? I asked . 
None whatever , replied Perry . 
It was in search of her that I came to the pretty pass in which you dis covered me , and from which , David , you saved me . 
I knew perfectly well that you had not intentionally deserted either Dian or Pellucidar . 
I came to Amoz after a most trying and terrible journey , only to find that Dian was not among her brother's people and that they knew naught of her whereabouts . 
Then came a stranger from another tribe , sent I am sure at the instigation of Hooja . 
He so turned the Amozites against me that I was forced to flee their country to escape assassination . 
In attempting to return to Sari I became lost , and then the Sagoths discovered me . 
For a long time I eluded them , hiding in caves and wading in rivers to throw them off my trail . 
I lived on nuts and fruits and the edible roots that chance threw in my way . 
We rested in our camp until Perry had regained sufficient strength to travel again . 
We planned much , rebuilding all our shattered air castles but above all we planned most to find Dian . 
I could not believe that she was dead , yet where she might be in this savage world , and under what frightful conditions she might be living , I could not guess . 
When I had come upon him he was clothed in rough sadak sandals , a gee string and a tunic fashioned from the shaggy hide of a thag . 
Now he wore real clothing again for the first time since the ape folk had stripped us of our apparel that long gone day that had witnessed our advent within Pellucidar . 
With a bandoleer of cartridges across his shoulder , two six shooters at his hips , and a rifle in his hand he was a much rejuvenated Perry . 
Now he was straight and active . 
His muscles , almost atrophied from disuse in his former life , had filled out . 
The wild , free life of Pel lucidar had worked wonders for him . 
Perry had been greatly interested in my map and in the royal observatory at Greenwich . 
By use of the pedometers we had retraced our way to the prospector with ease and accuracy . 
Now that we were ready to set out again we decided to follow a different route on the chance that it might lead us into more familiar territory . 
I shall not weary you with a repetition of the count less adventures of our long search . 
Now clouds are practically unknown in the skies of Pellucidar . 
The moment that my eyes rested upon them my heart leaped . 
I know it , I replied , but they give us a starting point from which to prosecute our search intelligently . 
They are at least a familiar landmark . 
They tell us that we are upon the right trail and not wandering far in the wrong direction . 
Furthermore , close to the Mountains of the Clouds dwells a good friend , Ja the Mezop . 
You did not know him , but you know all that he did for me and all that he will gladly do to aid me . 
At least he can direct us upon the right direction toward Sari . 
The Mountains of the Clouds constitute a mighty range , replied Perry . 
They must cover an enormous territory . 
How are you to find your friend in all the great country that is visible from their rugged flanks ? Easily , I answered him , for Ja gave me minute di rections . 
I recall almost his exact words 'You need merely come to the foot of the highest peak of the Mountains of the Clouds . 
There you will find a river that flows into the Lural Az . 
'Directly opposite the mouth of the river you will see three large islands far out so far that they are barely discernible . 
The one to the extreme left as you face them from the mouth of the river is Anoroc , where I rule the tribe of Anoroc . 
And so we hastened onward toward the great cloud mass that was to be our guide for several weary marches . 
At last we came close to the towering crags , Alp like in their grandeur . 
Rising nobly among its noble fellows , one stupendous peak reared its giant head thousands of feet above the others . 
It was he whom we sought but at its foot no river wound down toward any sea . 
It must rise from the opposite side , suggested Perry , casting a rueful glance at the forbidding heights that barred our further progress . 
We cannot endure the arctic cold of those high flung passes , and to traverse the endless miles about this interminable range might re quire a year or more . 
The land we seek must lie upon the opposite side of the mountains . 
Then we must cross them , I insisted . 
We can't do it , David , he repeated , We are dressed for the tropics . 
We should freeze to death among the snows and glaciers long before we had discovered a pass to the opposite side . 
We must cross them , I reiterated . 
I had a plan , and that plan we carried out . 
First we made a permanent camp part way up the slopes where there was good water . 
Then we set out in search of the great , shaggy cave bear of the higher altitudes . 
He is a mighty animal a terrible animal . 
It was his coat that we were after . 
We came upon him quite unexpectedly . 
I was trudg ing in advance along a rocky trail worn smooth by the padded feet of countless ages of wild beasts . 
At a shoul der of the mountain around which the path ran I came face to face with the Titan . 
I was going up for a fur coat . 
He was coming down for breakfast . 
Each realized that here was the very thing he sought . 
With a horrid roar the beast charged me . 
At my right the cliff rose straight upward for thou sands of feet . 
At my left it dropped into a dim , abysmal canon . 
In front of me was the bear . 
I shouted to him in warning , and then I raised my rifle and fired into the broad breast of the creature . 
There was no time to take aim the thing was too close upon me . 
But that my bullet took effect was evident from the howl of rage and pain that broke from the frothing jowls . 
It didn't stop him , though . 
I fired again , and then he was upon me . 
Down I went beneath his ton of maddened , clawing flesh and bone and sinew . 
I thought my time had come . 
I remember feeling sorry for poor old Perry , left all alone in this inhos pitable , savage world . 
And then of a sudden I realized that the bear was gone and that I was quite unharmed . 
I leaped to my feet , my rifle still clutched in my hand , and looked about for my antagonist . 
My cry of warn ing had given him time to reach this point of safety . 
There he squatted , his eyes wide and his mouth ajar , the picture of abject terror and consternation . 
Where is he ? he cried when he saw me . 
Where is he ? Didn't he come this way ? I asked , Nothing came this way , replied the old man . 
But I heard his roars he must have been as large as an elephant . 
He was , I admitted but where in the world do you suppose he disappeared to ? Then came a possible explanation to my mind . 
I re turned to the point at which the bear had hurled me down and peered over the edge of the cliff into the abyss below . 
Far , far down I saw a small brown blotch near the bottom of the canon . 
My second shot must have killed him , and so his dead body , after hurling me to the path , had toppled over into the abyss . 
I shivered at the thought of how close I , too , must have been to going over with him . 
It took us a long time to reach the carcass , and arduous labor to remove the great pelt . 
But at last the thing was accomplished , and we returned to camp dragging the heavy trophy behind us . 
Here we devoted another considerable period to scraping and curing it . 
When this was done to our satisfaction we made heavy boots , trousers , and coats of the shaggy skin , turning the fur in . 
From the scraps we fashioned caps that came down around our ears , with flaps that fell about our shoulders and breasts . 
We were now fairly well equipped for our search for a pass to the opposite side of the Mountains of the Clouds . 
Our first step now was to move our camp upward to the very edge of the perpetual snows which cap this lofty range . 
Here we built a snug , secure little hut , which we provisioned and stored with fuel for its di minutive fireplace . 
With our hut as a base we sallied forth in search of a pass across the range . 
Our every move was carefully noted upon our maps which we now kept in duplicate . 
By this means we were saved tedious and unnecessary retracing of ways already explored . 
It was hard work cold , bitter , cruel work . 
Not a step did we take in advance but the grim reaper strode silently in our tracks . 
There were the great cave bears in the timber , and gaunt , lean wolves huge creatures twice the size of our Canadian timber wolves . 
It is one of the peculiarities of life within Pellucidar that man is more often the hunted than the hunter . 
Myriad are the huge bellied carnivora of this primitive world . 
Never , from birth to death , are those great bellies sufficiently filled , so always are their mighty owners prowling about in search of meat . 
The bears looked upon us as easy meat . 
Only our heavy rifles saved us from prompt extinction . 
Poor Perry never was a raging lion at heart , and I am convinced that the terrors of that awful period must have caused him poignant mental anguish . 
The roar of our rifles was constantly shattering the world old silence of stupendous canons upon which the eye of man had never before gazed . 
Yes , it was a gay life . 
Perry had got to taking stock of our ammunition each time we returned to the hut . 
It became something of an obsession with him . 
I must admit that I , too , felt worried , for our progress was indeed snail like , and our ammunition could not last forever . 
In discussing the problem , finally we came to the decision to burn our bridges behind us and make one last supreme effort to cross the divide . 
The bears seemed unusually troublesome and determined that time , and as we clambered slowly upward beyond the highest point to which we had previously attained , the cold became infinitely more intense . 
Presently , with two great bears dogging our footsteps we entered a dense fog , We had reached the heights that are so often cloud wrapped for long periods . 
We could see nothing a few paces beyond our noses . 
We dared not turn back into the teeth of the bears which we could hear grunting behind us . 
To meet them in this bewildering fog would have been to court instant death . 
Perry was almost overcome by the hopelessness of our situation . 
He flopped down on his knees and began to pray . 
I shivered as I thought of the poor old fellow's peril . 
At the top of my lungs I called to him to stop , but he did not answer me . 
And then I hurried on in the di rection he had gone , faster by far than safety dictated . 
All was deathly silence the silence of the tomb . 
About me lay the thick , impenetrable fog . 
Perry was gone gone forever , I had not the slightest doubt . 
Somewhere near by lay the mouth of a treacherous fissure , and far down at its icy bottom lay all that was mortal of my old friend , Abner Perry . 
CHAPTER III SHOOTING THE CHUTES AND AFTER Through the fog I felt my way along by means of my compass . 
I no longer heard the bears , nor did I encoun ter one within the fog . 
It was well for me that this was true . 
I felt very sad and lonely as I crawled along the diffi cult footing . 
My own predicament weighed less heavily upon me than the loss of Perry , for I loved the old fellow . 
Then , too , the blighting , gray oblivion of the cold , damp clouds through which I wandered was distress ing . 
Hope thrives best in sunlight , and I am sure that it does not thrive at all in a fog . 
But the instinct of self preservation is stronger than hope . 
It thrives , fortunately , upon nothing . 
It takes root upon the brink of the grave , and blossoms in the jaws of death . 
Now it flourished bravely upon the breast of dead hope , and urged me onward and upward in a stern endeavor to justify its existence . 
As I advanced the fog became denser . 
I could see nothing beyond my nose . 
Even the snow and ice I trod were invisible . 
I could not see below the breast of my bearskin coat . 
I seemed to be floating in a sea of vapor . 
For some time the ground had been rougher and steeper , until I had been forced to scale a considerable height that had carried me from the glacier entirely . 
I was sure from my compass that I was following the right general direction , and so I kept on . 
Once more the ground was level . 
From the wind that blew about me I guessed that I must be upon some ex posed peak of ridge . 
And then quite suddenly I stepped out into space . 
Wildly I turned and clutched at the ground that had slipped from beneath my feet . 
Only a smooth , icy surface was there . 
I found nothing to clutch or stay my fall , and a moment later so great was my speed that nothing could have stayed me . 
As suddenly as I had pitched into space , with equal suddenness did I emerge from the fog , out of which I shot like a projectile from a cannon into clear daylight . 
My speed was so great that I could see nothing about me but a blurred and indistinct sheet of smooth and frozen snow , that rushed past me with express train velocity . 
I must have slid downward thousands of feet before the steep incline curved gently on to a broad , smooth , snow covered plateau . 
Across this I hurtled with slowly diminishing velocity , until at last objects about me began to take definite shape . 
Far ahead , miles and miles away , I saw a great valley and mighty woods , and beyond these a broad expanse of water . 
In the nearer foreground I discerned a small , dark blob of color upon the shimmering whiteness of the snow . 
A bear , thought I , and thanked the instinct that had impelled me to cling tenaciously to my rifle during the moments of my awful tumble . 
It was standing upon its hind legs waiting for me . 
As I scrambled to my feet to meet it , I dropped my gun in the snow and doubled up with laughter . 
The expression upon his face , combined with the relief I felt at seeing him again safe and sound , was too much for my overwrought nerves . 
David , my boy ! God has been good to an old man . 
He has answered my prayer . 
It seems that Perry in his mad flight had plunged over the brink at about the same point as that at which I had stepped over it a short time later . 
Chance had done for us what long periods of rational labor had failed to accomplish . 
We had crossed the divide . 
We were upon the side of the Mountains of the Clouds that we had for so long been attempting to reach . 
Below us were green trees and warm jungles . 
In the distance was a great sea . 
The Lural Az , I said , pointing toward its blue green surface . 
Somehow the gods alone can explain it Perry , too , had clung to his rifle during his mad descent of the icy slope . 
For that there was cause for great rejoicing . 
The going was easy by comparison with the awful obstacles we had had to encounter upon the opposite side of the divide . 
There were beasts , of course , but we came through safely . 
Before we halted to eat or rest , we stood beside a little mountain brook beneath the wondrous trees of the primeval forest in an atmosphere of warmth and com fort . 
It reminded me of an early June day in the Maine Woods . 
We fell to work with our short axes and cut enough small trees to build a rude protection from the fiercer beasts . 
Then we lay down to sleep . 
How long we slept I do not know . 
It is most baffling , this question of elapsed time within Pellucidar . 
Anyhow , I was famished when we awoke . 
I think that it was the pangs of hunger that awoke me . 
Ptarmigan and wild boar fell before my revolver within a dozen moments of my awakening . 
Perry soon had a roaring fire blazing by the brink of the little stream . 
It was a good and delicious meal we made . 
Though we did not eat the entire boar , we made a very large hole in him , while the ptarmigan was but a mouthful . 
Having satisfied our hunger , we determined to set forth at once in search of Anoroc and my old friend , Ja the Mezop . 
We each thought that by following the little stream downward , we should come upon the large river which Ja had told me emptied into the Lural Az op posite his island . 
For three long marches we followed the left bank of the growing river , until at last we saw it roll its mighty volume into the vast waters of the sea . 
Far out across the rippling ocean we described three islands . 
The one to the left must be Anoroc . 
At last we had come close to a solution of our problem the road to Sari . 
But how to reach the islands was now the foremost question in our minds . 
We must build a canoe . 
Perry is a most resourceful man . 
He set out to make gunpowder once , shortly after our escape from Phutra and at the beginning of the con federation of the wild tribes of Pellucidar . 
He worked mighty hard mixing all sorts of things together , until finally he evolved a substance that looked like powder . 
So now he set himself to work to build a scientific canoe . 
I had suggested that we construct a dugout , but Perry convinced me that we must build something more in keeping with our positions of supermen in this world of the Stone Age . 
We must impress these natives with our superiority , he explained . 
You must not forget , David , that you are emperor of Pellucidar . 
As such you may not with dignity approach the shores of a foreign power in so crude a vessel as a dugout . 
I grinned but Perry was quite serious about it . 
It had always seemed rather more or less of a joke to me that I should be addressed as majesty and all the rest of it . 
Yet my imperial power and dignity had been a very real thing during my brief reign . 
Twenty tribes had joined the federation , and their chiefs had sworn eternal fealty to one another and to me . 
Among them were many powerful though savage na tions . 
Their chiefs we had made kings their tribal lands kingdoms . 
We had armed them with bows and arrows and swords , in addition to their own more primitive weapons . 
We had marked out as best we could natural bounda ries dividing the various kingdoms . 
We had warned tribes beyond these boundaries that they must not trespass , and we had marched against and severely punished those who had . 
We had met and defeated the Mahars and the Sagoths . 
But now I had returned . 
Slowly the imperial navy progressed toward com pletion . 
She was a wondrous craft , but I had my doubts about her . 
He was immensely serious about his work , and I must admit that in so far as appearances went he did ex tremely well with the meager tools and assistance at his command . 
We had only two short axes and our hunting knives yet with these we hewed trees , split them into planks , surfaced and fitted them . 
The navy was some forty feet in length by ten feet beam . 
As a matter of fact , I knew that he had had in mind the safety of her crew under javelin fire the lofty sides made an admirable shelter . 
Inside she reminded me of nothing so much as a floating trench . 
There was also some slight analogy to a huge coffin . 
Her prow sloped sharply backward from the water line quite like a line of battleship . 
Below the water line she was practically non existent . 
She should have had considerable draft but , as the enemy couldn't have seen it , Perry decided to do away with it , and so made her flat bottomed . 
It was this that caused my doubts about her . 
There was another little idiosyncrasy of design that escaped us both until she was about ready to launch there was no method of propulsion . 
Finally I suggested that we convert her into a sailing vessel . 
When once the idea took hold Perry was most enthusiastic about it , and nothing would do but a four masted , full rigged ship . 
Again I tried to dissuade him , but he was simply crazy over the psychological effect which the appearance of this strange and mighty craft would have upon the natives of Pellucidar . 
So we rigged her with thin hides for sails and dried gut for rope . 
We had built her upon a low bank of the river close to where it emptied into the sea , and just above high tide . 
Her keel we had laid upon several rollers cut from small trees , the ends of the rollers in turn resting upon parallel tracks of long saplings . 
Her stern was toward the water . 
A few hours before we were ready to launch her she made quite an imposing picture , for Perry had insisted upon setting every shred of canvas . 
At the last minute there was some delay while we sought a name for her . 
I wanted her christened the Perry in honor both of her designer and that other great naval genius of another world , Captain Oliver Hazard Perry , of the United States Navy . 
But Perry was too modest he wouldn't hear of it . 
We finally decided to establish a system in the naming of the fleet . 
Battle ships of the first class should bear the names of kingdoms of the federation armored cruisers the names of kings cruisers the names of cities , and so on down the line . 
Therefore , we decided to name the first battle ship Sari , after the first of the federated kingdoms . 
The launching of the Sari proved easier than I con templated . 
When we cut the ropes and removed the blocks that held the Sari in place she started for the water with a lunge . 
But there was no dignity in the Sari . 
When she touched the surface of the river she must have been going twenty or thirty miles an hour . 
The moment her progress was checked she promptly capsized . 
I didn't upbraid him , nor remind him that I had told him so . 
His grief was so genuine and so apparent that I didn't have the heart to reproach him , even were I inclined to that particular sort of meanness . 
Come , come , old man ! I cried . 
It's not as bad as it looks . 
Give me a hand with this rope , and we'll drag her up as far as we can and then when the tide goes out we'll try another scheme . 
I think we can make a go of her yet . 
Well , we managed to get her up into shallow water . 
If she didn't stick too fast in the mud I was sure that she would float this time right side up . 
I can tell you that it was with palpitating hearts that we sat upon the river bank and watched that tide come slowly in . 
The tides of Pellucidar don't amount to much by comparison with our higher tides of the outer world , but I knew that it ought to prove ample to float the Sari . 
Finally we had the satisfaction of seeing the vessel rise out of the mud and float slowly upstream with the tide . 
As the water rose we pulled her in quite close to the bank and clambered aboard . 
She rested safely now upon an even keel nor did she leak , for she was well calked with fiber and tarry pitch . 
While we waited we devoted the time to the con struction of an upper deck , since the one immediately above the ballast was some seven feet from the gunwale . 
The second deck was four feet above this . 
In it was a large , commodious hatch , leading to the lower deck . 
The sides of the ship rose three feet above the upper deck , forming an excellent breastwork , which we loopholed at intervals that we might lie prone and fire upon an enemy . 
Though we were sailing out upon a peaceful mission in search of my friend Ja , we knew that we might meet with people of some other island who would prove unfriendly . 
At last the tide turned . 
Slowly we drifted down the great river toward the sea . 
At last we were safely launched upon the journey to which we had looked forward for so long , and the results of which meant so much to me . 
CHAPTER IV FRIENDSHIP AND TREACHERY The Sari proved a most erratic craft . 
She might have done well enough upon a park lagoon if safely anchored , but upon the bosom of a mighty ocean she left much to be desired . 
Sailing with the wind she did her best but in quarter ing or when close hauled she drifted terribly , as a nautical man might have guessed she would . 
We couldn't keep within miles of our course , and our progress was pitifully slow . 
As we neared the islands Perry was quite overcome by their beauty . 
When we were directly between two of them he fairly went into raptures nor could I blame him . 
The tropical luxuriance of the foliage that dripped almost to the water's edge and the vivid colors of the blooms that shot the green made a most gorgeous spectacle . 
Perry was right in the midst of a flowery panegyric on the wonders of the peaceful beauty of the scene when a canoe shot out from the nearest island . 
There were a dozen warriors in it it was quickly followed by a second and third . 
Of course we couldn't know the intentions of the strangers , but we could pretty well guess them . 
I waited until they were quite close enough to hear me , and then I hailed them . 
I warned them that they would get the worst of it if they didn't leave us alone , but they only shouted in derision and paddled swiftly toward us . 
It was evident that they were considerably impressed by the appear ance and dimensions of our craft , but as these fellows know no fear they were not at all awed . 
In other and simpler words , I fired my revolver at the nearest canoe . 
A warrior rose from his knees , threw his paddle aloft , stiffened into rigidity for an instant , and then toppled overboard . 
The others ceased paddling , and , with wide eyes , looked first at me and then at the battling sea things which fought for the corpse of their comrade . 
But only for an instant were they paralyzed with wonder . 
Then , with savage shouts , they fell once more to their paddles and forged rapidly toward us . 
Again and again I fired . 
At each shot a warrior sank to the bottom of the canoe or tumbled overboard . 
When the prow of the first craft touched the side of the Sari it contained only dead and dying men . 
The other two dugouts were approaching rapidly , so I turned my attention toward them . 
The third boat pulled up alongside the second and its crews joined in the conference . 
Taking advantage of the lull in the battle , I called out to the survivors to return to their shore . 
Slowly they turned the noses of their canoes toward land . 
Presently Perry stuck his head up through the hatch and hailed me . 
Have the scoundrels departed ? he asked . 
Have you killed them all ? Those whom I failed to kill have departed , Perry , I replied . 
He came out on deck and , peering over the side , descried the lone canoe floating a short distance astern with its grim and grisly freight . 
Farther his eyes wan dered to the retreating boats . 
David , said he at last , this is a notable occasion . 
It is a great day in the annals of Pellucidar . 
We have won a glorious victory . 
Your majesty's navy has routed a fleet of the enemy thrice its own size , manned by ten times as many men . 
Perry is the only male coward I have ever known whom I could respect and love . 
It took us a long time to work around the islands and draw in close to Anoroc . 
Crossed sabers marked the spot where the first great naval engagement of a world had taken place . 
In a note book we jotted down , as had been our custom , details that would be of historical value later . 
Opposite Anoroc we came to anchor quite close to shore . 
After some ten shots had been fired at considerable intervals a body of copper colored warriors appeared upon the shore . 
They watched us for a moment and then I hailed them , asking the whereabouts of my old friend Ja . 
They did not reply at once , but stood with their heads together in serious and animated discussion . 
Continually they turned their eyes toward our strange craft . 
It was evident that they were greatly puzzled by our appear ance as well as unable to explain the source of the loud noises that had attracted their attention to us . 
At last one of the warriors addressed us . 
Who are you who seek Ja ? he asked . 
What would you of our chief ? We are friends , I replied . 
Tell Ja that David , whose life be once saved from a sithic , has come again to visit him . 
If you will send out a canoe we will come ashore . 
We cannot bring our great warship closer in . 
Again they talked for a considerable time . 
Then two of them entered a canoe that several dragged from its hiding place in the jungle and paddled swiftly toward us . 
They were magnificent specimens of manhood . 
Perry had never seen a member of this red race close to be fore . 
In fact , the dead men in the canoe we had left astern after the battle and the survivors who were paddling rapidly toward their shore were the first he ever had seen . 
He had been greatly impressed by their physical beauty and the promise of superior intelligence which their well shaped skulls gave . 
The two who now paddled out received us into their canoe with dignified courtesy . 
One of the men remembered me from the occasion of my former visit to the island he was extremely agree able the moment that he came close enough to recognize me . 
Upon shore we were received with equal honor . 
While we stood conversing with our bronze friends a tall warrior leaped suddenly from the jungle . 
As his eyes fell upon me his face lighted with pleasure . 
He came quickly forward to greet me after the manner of his tribe . 
Toward Perry he was equally hospitable . 
Perry was much interested in the unique habitation , which resembled nothing so much as a huge wasp's nest built around the bole of a tree well above the ground . 
After we had eaten and rested Ja came to see us with a number of his head men . 
Ja told me that the Mezops had heard something of the federation and had been much interested in it . 
The delegation had met with a party of Sagoths . 
So the party returned to Anoroc . 
When I showed Ja our map and explained its purpose to him , he was much interested . 
The location of Anoroc , the Mountains of the Clouds , the river , and the strip of seacoast were all familiar to him . 
He quickly indicated the position of the inland sea and close beside it , the city of Phutra , where one of the powerful Mahar nations had its seat . 
He likewise showed us where Sari should be and carried his own coast line as far north and south as it was known to him . 
Also , Sari was upon a lofty plateau at the southern end of a mighty gulf of the Great Ocean . 
The location which Ja gave to distant Amoz puzzled us , for it placed it due north of Greenwich , apparently in mid ocean . 
As Ja had never been so far and knew only of Amoz through hearsay , we thought that he must be mistaken but he was not . 
Amoz lies directly north of Greenwich across the mouth of the same gulf as that upon which Sari is . 
The sense of direction and location of these primitive Pellucidarians is little short of uncanny , as I have had occasion to remark in the past . 
Mountains , rivers , and seas may have to be gone around . 
but never once does his sense of direction fail him the homing instinct is supreme . 
In short , each Pellucidarian is a walking geography of his own district and of much of the country contiguous thereto . 
It always proved of the greatest aid to Perry and me nevertheless we were anxious to enlarge our map , for we at least were not endowed with the homing instinct . 
Ja and his warriors were much impressed by our firearms , and were also anxious to build boats with sails . 
I was sure that with definite plans to go by Perry could oversee the construction of an adequate flotilla . 
I was to proceed to Sari , and while prosecuting my search for Dian attempt at the same time the rehabili tation of the federation . 
Perry was going as far as possible by water , with the chances that the entire trip might be made in that manner , which proved to be the fact . 
With a couple of Mezops as companions I started for Sari . 
In order to avoid crossing the principal range of the Mountains of the Clouds we took a route that passed a little way south of Phutra . 
They did not attack us , owing to the peace which exists between the Mahars and the Mezops , but I could see that they looked upon me with considerable sus picion . 
I noticed , and not without misgivings , that the leader of the Sagoths eyed me with an expression that be tokened partial recognition . 
I was sure that he had seen me before during the period of my incarceration in Phutra and that he was trying to recall my identity . 
It worried me not a little . 
I was extremely thankful when we bade them adieu and continued upon our journey . 
Several times during the next few marches I became acutely conscious of the sensation of being watched by unseen eyes , but I did not speak of my suspicions to my companions . 
Later I had reason to regret my reticence , for Well , this is how it happened We had killed an antelope and after eating our fill I had lain down to sleep . 
When I awoke it was with a start to find a couple of huge Sagoths astride me . 
They pinioned my arms and legs , and later chained my wrists behind my back . 
Then they let me up . 
I saw my companions the brave fellows lay dead where they had slept , javelined to death without a chance at self defense . 
They simply left it where it had lain beside me . 
So low in the scale of intelligence are they , that they had not sufficient interest in this strange object even to fetch it along with them . 
I knew from the direction of our march that they were taking me to Phutra . 
Once there I did not need much of an imagination to picture what my fate would be . 
It was the arena and a wild thag or fierce tarag for me unless the Mahars elected to take me to the pits . 
In that case my end would be no more certain , though infinitely more horrible and painful , for in the pits I should be subjected to cruel vivisection . 
Arrived at the underground city , I was taken im mediately before a slimy Mahar . 
When the creature had received the report of the Sagoth its cold eyes glistened with malice and hatred as they were turned balefully upon me . 
I knew then that my identity had been guessed . 
Here we were ushered into a great hall where presently many Mahars gathered . 
In utter silence they conversed , for they have no oral speech since they are without auditory nerves . 
Their method of communication Perry has likened to the pro jection of a sixth sense into a fourth dimension , where it becomes cognizable to the sixth sense of their audience . 
Be that as it may , however , it was evident that I was the subject of discussion , and from the hateful looks bestowed upon me not a particularly pleasant subject . 
How long I waited for their decision I do not know , but it must have been a very long time . 
Finally one of the Sagoths addressed me . 
He was acting as interpreter for his masters . 
The Mahars will spare your life , he said , and re lease you on one condition . 
And what is that condition ? I asked , though I could guess its terms . 
That you return to them that which you stole from the pits of Phutra when you killed the four Mahars and escaped , he replied . 
I had thought that that would be it . 
The great secret upon which depended the continuance of the Mahar race was safely hid where only Dian and I knew . 
Come ! exclaimed the Sagoths . 
The mighty Mahars await your reply . 
You may say to them , I answered , that I shall not tell them where the great secret is hid . 
When this had been translated to them there was a great beating of reptilian wings , gaping of sharp fanged jaws , and hideous hissing . 
They took me to the pits , where I lay carefully guarded . 
I was sure that I was to be taken to the vivi section laboratory , and it required all my courage to fortify myself against the terrors of so fearful a death . 
In Pellucidar , where there is no time , death agonies may endure for eternities . 
A great Sagoth came and spoke some words of command to those who watched over me . 
I was jerked roughly to my feet and with little consideration hustled upward toward the higher levels . 
Into the vast amphitheater they took me , stationing me at the extreme end of the arena . 
The queen came , with her slimy , sickening retinue . 
The show was about to commence . 
Then , from a little doorway in the opposite end of the structure , a girl was led into the arena . 
She was at a considerable distance from me . 
I could not see her features . 
I wondered what fate awaited this other poor victim and myself , and why they had chosen to have us die together . 
At my sides were my re volvers . 
My captors had not taken them from me , be cause they did not yet realize their nature . 
Doubtless they thought them some strange manner of war club , and as those who are condemned to the arena are per mitted weapons of defense , they let me keep them . 
The girl they had armed with a javelin . 
A brass pin would have been almost as effective against the ferocious monster they had loosed upon her . 
The tarag stood for a moment looking about him first up at the vast audience and then about the arena . 
He did not seem to see me at all , but his eyes fell presently upon the girl . 
I could scarce restrain a shudder . 
Slowly the beast turned and moved toward the girl . 
Then it was that I came to myself and to a realization of my duty . 
Quickly and as noiselessly as possible I ran down the arena in pursuit of the grim creature . 
As I ran I drew one of my pitifully futile weapons . 
Ah ! Could I but have had my lost express gun in my hands at that moment ! A single well placed shot would have crumbled even this great monster . 
Be that as it may , the chances were that the tarag alone would profit by the law of the arena . 
A few more of his long strides , a prodigious leap , and he would be upon the girl . 
I raised a revolver and fired . 
The bullet struck him in the left hind leg . 
It couldn't have damaged him much but the report of the shot brought him around , facing me . 
I think the snarling visage of a huge , enraged , saber toothed tiger is one of the most terrible sights in the world . 
Especially if he be snarling at you and there be nothing between the two of you but bare sand . 
Even as he faced me a little cry from the girl carried my eyes beyond the brute to her face . 
Hers was fastened upon me with an expression of incredulity that baffles description . 
There was both hope and horror in them , too . 
My Heavens , Dian ! I saw her lips form the name David , as with raised javelin she rushed forward upon the tarag . 
She was a tigress then a primitive savage female defending her loved one . 
Before she could reach the beast with her puny weapon , I fired again at the point where the tarag's neck met his left shoulder . 
If I could get a bullet through there it might reach his heart . 
The bullet didn't reach his heart , but it stopped him for an instant . 
It was then that a strange thing happened . 
They are huge , powerful reptiles . 
One of them , with the advantage which his wings might give him , would easily be a match for a cave bear or a tarag . 
These three , to my consternation , swooped down upon the tarag as he was gathering himself for a final charge upon me . 
They buried their talons in his back and lifted him bodily from the arena as if he had been a chicken in the clutches of a hawk . 
What could it mean ? I was baffled for an explanation but with the tarag gone I lost no time in hastening to Dian's side . 
With a little cry of delight she threw herself into my arms . 
So lost were we in the ecstasy of reunion that neither of us to this day can tell what became of the tarag . 
The first thing we were aware of was the presence of a body of Sagoths about us . 
Gruffly they commanded us to follow them . 
They led us from the arena and back through the streets of Phutra to the audience chamber in which I had been tried and sentenced . 
Here we found ourselves facing the same cold , cruel tribunal . 
Again a Sagoth acted as interpreter . 
Who is Tu al sa ? I asked . 
A Mahar whose last male ancestor was ages ago the last of the male rulers among the Mahars , he replied . 
Why should she wish to have my life spared ? He shrugged his shoulders and then repeated my question to the Mahar spokesman . 
You might easily have killed her or aban doned her in a strange world but you did neither . 
You did not harm her , and you brought her back with you to Pellucidar and set her free to return to Phutra . 
The Mahar who had been my in voluntary companion upon my return to the outer world was Tu al sa . 
This was the first time that I had learned the lady's name . 
I thanked fate that I had not left her upon the sands of the Sahara or put a bullet in her , as I had been tempted to do . 
I was surprised to discover that gratitude was a characteristic of the dominant race of Pellucidar . 
But what they purposed for us further was of most imminent interest to me . 
They might save us from the tarag and yet not free us . 
Naturally , I was next impelled to inquire their further intent . 
To my question , put through the Sagoth interpreter , I received the reply that having spared my life they con sidered that Tu al sa's debt of gratitude was canceled . 
They still had against me , however , the crime of which I had been guilty the unforgivable crime of stealing the great secret . 
They , therefore , intended holding Dian and me prisoners until the manuscript was returned to them . 
There was no doubt but that they had the upper hand . 
Without the great secret this maleless race must even tually become extinct . 
I was none too sure that I could find the valley again , nor that I cared to . 
So long as the powerful reptilian race of Pellucidar continued to propagate , just so long would the position of man within the inner world be jeopardized . 
There could not be two dominant races . 
I said as much to Dian . 
You used to tell me , she replied , of the wonderful things you could accomplish with the inventions of your own world . 
Now you have returned with all that is necessary to place this great power in the hands of the men of Pellucidar . 
You told me of great engines of destruction which would cast a bursting ball of metal among our enemies , killing hundreds of them at one time . 
You told me of mighty fortresses of stone which a thousand men armed with big and little engines such as these could hold forever against a million Sagoths . 
You told me of great canoes which moved across the water without paddles , and which spat death from holes in their sides . 
All these may now belong to the men of Pellucidar . 
Why should we fear the Mahars ? Let them breed ! Let their numbers increase by thou sands . 
They will be helpless before the power of the Emperor of Pellucidar . 
No , David the Mahars cannot harm us if you are at liberty . 
Let them have their secret that you and I may return to our people , and lead them to the conquest of all Pellucidar . 
It was plain that Dian was ambitious , and that her ambition had not dulled her reasoning faculties . 
Nothing could be gained by remaining bottled up in Phutra for the rest of our lives . 
He could never weld the warring factions of the disrupted federation . 
He could never win new tribes to the empire . 
He would fiddle around manufacturing gun powder and trying to improve upon it until some one blew him up with his own invention . 
He never would get anywhere without a balance wheel without some one to direct his energies . 
Perry needed me and I needed him . 
If we were going to do anything for Pellucidar we must be free to do it together . 
The outcome of it all was that I agreed to the Mahars' proposition . 
They promised that Dian would be well treated and protected from every indignity during my absence . 
So I set out with a hundred Sagoths in search of the little valley which I had stumbled upon by acci dent , and which I might and might not find again . 
We traveled directly toward Sari . 
Stopping at the camp where I had been captured I recovered my express rifle , for which I was very thankful . 
I found it lying where I had left it when I had been overpowered in my sleep by the Sagoths who bad captured me and slain my Mezop companions . 
On the way I added materially to my map , an occu pation which did not elicit from the Sagoths even a shadow of interest . 
I felt that the human race of Pelluci dar had little to fear from these gorilla men . 
They were fighters that was all . 
We might even use them later ourselves in this same capacity . 
They had not sufficient brain power to constitute a menace to the advancement of the human race . 
As we neared the spot where I hoped to find the little valley I became more and more confident of success . 
Every landmark was familiar to me , and I was sure now that I knew the exact location of the cave . 
It was at about this time that I sighted a number of the half naked warriors of the human race of Pellucidar . 
They were marching across our front . 
At sight of us they halted that there would be a fight I could not doubt . 
These Sagoths would never permit an opportunity for the capture of slaves for their Mahar masters to escape them . 
Before Perry and I came the men of Pellucidar had only the crudest weapons wherewith to slay one another . 
The Sagoths , too , were evidently expecting battle . 
With savage shouts they rushed forward toward the human warriors . 
Then a strange thing happened . 
The leader of the human beings stepped forward with upraised hands . 
The Sagoths ceased their war cries and advanced slowly to meet him . 
There was a long parley during which I could see that I was often the subject of their discourse . 
The Sagoths' leader pointed in the direction in which I had told him the valley lay . 
Evidently he was explaining the nature of our expedition to the leader of the warriors . 
It was all a puzzle to me . 
What human being could be upon such excellent terms with the gorilla men ? I couldn't imagine . 
Finally the parley was concluded and the men con tinued on their way while the Sagoths returned to where I stood with my guard . 
It was time for eating , so we stopped where we were and made our meal . 
The Sa goths didn't tell me who it was they had met , and I did not ask , though I must confess that I was quite curious . 
They permitted me to sleep at this halt . 
Afterward we took up the last leg of our journey . 
I found the valley without difficulty and led my guard directly to the cave . 
At its mouth the Sagoths halted and I entered alone . 
I noticed as I felt about the floor in the dim light that there was a pile of fresh turned rubble there . 
Presently my hands came to the spot where the great secret had been buried . 
Someone had been here ahead of me and stolen the great secret . 
The one thing within Pellucidar which might free Dian and me was gone , nor was it likely that I should ever learn its whereabouts . 
If a Mahar had found it , which was quite improbable , the chances were that the dominant race would never divulge the fact that they had recovered the precious document . 
If a cave man had happened upon it he would have no conception of its meaning or value , and as a consequence it would be lost or destroyed in short order . 
With bowed head and broken hopes I came out of the cave and told the Sagoth chieftain what I had dis covered . 
The Sagoth knew only that I had failed in my mission , so he took advantage of the fact to make the return journey to Phutra as disagreeable as possible . 
I did not rebel , though I had with me the means to destroy them all . 
I did not dare rebel because of the consequences to Dian . 
The Mahars might keep me in slavery if they chose , but Dian should be returned safely to her people . 
I was full of my scheme when we entered Phutra and I was conducted directly to the great audience chamber . 
One thing I had decided definitely If they would not free Dian I should turn loose upon Phutra with my little arsenal . 
Alone I might even win to freedom , and if I could learn where Dian was imprisoned it would be worth the attempt to free her . 
My thoughts were inter rupted by the interpreter . 
The mighty Mahars , he said , are unable to reconcile your statement that the document is lost with your action in sending it to them by a special messenger . 
They wish to know if you have so soon forgotten the truth or if you are merely ignoring it . 
I sent them no document , I cried . 
Ask them what they mean . 
He said that you had sent him ahead with it , asking him to deliver it and return to Sari where you would await him , bringing the girl with him . 
The Mahars have given over Dian into the keeping of Hooja . 
What of it ? She is only a gilak , as you or I would say , She is only a cow . 
CHAPTER VI A PENDENT WORLD The Mahars set me free as they had promised , but with strict injunctions never to approach Phutra or any other Mahar city . 
Should I again fall into their hands , they intimated it would go ill with me . 
Of my journey to Sari it is only necessary to say that it was fraught with the usual excitement and adventure , incident to all travel across the face of savage Pellucidar . 
The dangers , however , were greatly reduced through the medium of my armament . 
With the aid of my map , which I had kept with great care during my march with the Sagoths in search of the great secret , I arrived at Sari at last . 
As I topped the lofty plateau in whose rocky cliffs the principal tribe of Sarians find their cave homes , a great hue and cry arose from those who first discovered me . 
Like wasps from their nests the hairy warriors poured from their caves . 
The bows with their poison tipped arrows , which I had taught them to fashion and to use , were raised against me . 
Swords of hammered iron another of my innovations menaced me , as with lusty shouts the horde charged down . 
It was a critical moment . 
Before I should be recog nized I might be dead . 
It was evident that all semblance of intertribal relationship had ceased with my going , and that my people had reverted to their former savage , suspicious hatred of all strangers . 
My garb must have puzzled them , too , for never before of course had they seen a man clothed in khaki and puttees . 
Leaning my express rifle against my body I raised both hands aloft . 
It was the peace sign that is recognized everywhere upon the surface of Pellucidar . 
The charging warriors paused and surveyed me . 
I looked for my friend Ghak , the Hairy One , king of Sari , and presently I saw him coming from a distance . 
Shouldering his way through the throng of warriors , the mighty chieftain advanced toward me . 
There was an expression of puzzlement upon his fine features . 
He crossed the space between the warriors and myself , halt ing before me . 
I did not even smile . 
I wanted to see if Ghak , my principal lieutenant , would recognize me . 
For some time he stood there looking me over carefully . 
His eyes took in my large pith helmet , my khaki jacket , and bandoleers of cartridges , the two revolvers swinging at my hips , the large rifle resting against my body . 
Still I stood with my hands above my head . 
He examined my puttees and my strong tan shoes a little the worse for wear now . 
Then he glanced up once more to my face . 
As his gaze rested there quite steadily for some moments I saw recognition tinged with awe creep across his countenance . 
Presently without a word he took one of my hands in his and dropping to one knee raised my fingers to his lips . 
Perry had taught them this trick , nor ever did the most polished courtier of all the grand courts of Europe perform the little act of homage with greater grace and dignity . 
Quickly I raised Ghak to his feet , clasping both his hands in mine . 
I think there must have been tears in my eyes then I know I felt too full for words . 
The king of Sari turned toward his warriors . 
Our emperor has come back , he announced . 
Come hither and But he got no further , for the shouts that broke from those savage throats would have drowned the voice of heaven itself . 
I had never guessed how much they thought of me . 
As they clustered around , almost fighting for the chance to kiss my hand , I saw again the vision of empire which I had thought faded forever . 
With such as these I could conquer a world . 
Perry was safe with the Mezops I was safe with the Sarians now if Dian were but safe with me the future would look bright indeed . 
When I told him that Hooja had stolen her , he stamped his foot in rage . 
It is always the Sly One ! he cried . 
It was Hooja who caused the first trouble between you and the Beautiful One . 
It was Hooja who betrayed our trust , and all but caused our recapture by the Sagoths that time we escaped from Phutra . 
It was Hooja who tricked you and substituted a Mahar for Dian when you started upon your return journey to your own world . 
It was Hooja who schemed and lied until he had turned the kingdoms one against another and de stroyed the federation . 
When we had him in our power we were foolish to let him live . 
Next time Ghak did not need to finish his sentence . 
He has become a very powerful enemy now , I re plied . 
Doubtless they told him of our quest and he hastened on ahead of us , discovered the cave and stole the document . 
Well does he deserve his appellation of the Sly One . 
With Ghak and his head men I held a number of consultations . 
The upshot of them was a decision to com bine our search for Dian with an attempt to rebuild the crumbled federation . 
Ghak was to remain at home to receive the various delegations which we invited to come to Sari on the business of the federation . 
Four hundred warriors were started for Anoroc to fetch Perry and the contents of the prospector , to the capitol of the empire , which was also the principal settlements of the Sarians . 
Ghak tried to dissuade me , though I could tell that his heart was with me in my wish to be away and really doing something . 
It was while we were arguing upon the subject that a stranger , with hands above his head , entered the village . 
He was immediately surrounded by warriors and conducted to Ghak's presence . 
The fellow was a typical cave man squat muscular , and hairy , and of a type I had not seen before . 
His features , like those of all the primeval men of Pellucidar , were regular and fine . 
His weapons consisted of a stone ax and knife and a heavy knobbed bludgeon of wood . 
His skin was very white . 
Who are you ? asked Ghak . 
And whence come you ? I am Kolk , son of Goork , who is chief of the Thurians , replied the stranger . 
The stories are true , replied Ghak , and here is the emperor of whom you have heard . 
You need travel no farther . 
He told us much of the wonderful resources of Thuria , the Land of Awful Shadow , and of his long journey in search of Amoz . 
And why , I asked , does Goork , your father , desire to join his kingdom to the empire ? There are two reasons , replied the young man . 
We have heard that the great emperor makes successful war upon the Mahars , against whom we should be glad to fight . 
Recently has another reason come . 
Upon a great island which lies in the Sojar Az , but a short distance from our shores , a wicked man has collected a great band of outcast warriors of all tribes . 
Even are there many Sagoths among them , sent by the Mahars to aid the Wicked One . 
All this we learned from one of our own warriors who had pretended to sympathize with this band and had then escaped at the first opportunity . 
Who could this man be , I asked Ghak , who leads so vile a movement against his own kind ? His name is Hooja , spoke up Kolk , answering my question . 
Ghak and I looked at each other . 
Relief was written upon his countenance and I know that it was beating strongly in my heart . 
At last we had discovered a tan gible clue to the whereabouts of Hooja and with the clue a guide ! But when I broached the subject to Kolk he demurred . 
He had come a long way , he explained , to see his sister and to confer with Dacor . 
Moreover , he had instructions from his father which he could not ignore lightly . 
But even so he would return with me and show me the way to the island of the Thurian shore if by doing so we might accomplish anything . 
But we cannot , he urged . 
He has thousands of warriors . 
He has only to call upon his Mahar allies to receive a countless horde of Sagoths to do his bidding against his human enemies . 
Let us wait until you may gather an equal horde from the kingdoms of your empire . 
Then we may march against Hooja with some show of success . 
We do not go upon the water . 
We know nothing of such things . 
I couldn't persuade him to do more than direct me upon the way . 
The shadow extended southeast of the coast out into the sea half way to a large island , which he said was the seat of Hooja's traitorous government . 
The island itself lay in the light of the noonday sun . 
Thus were the unhappy people now between two fires , with Hooja upon one side and the Mahars upon the other . 
I did not wonder that they sent out an appeal for succor . 
And so , armed with my credentials and my small arsenal , I set out alone upon my quest for the dearest girl in this world or yours . 
Kolk gave me explicit directions , though with my map I do not believe that I could have gone wrong . 
At the southern base of this mountain a river rose and ran in a westerly direction , finally turning south and emptying into the Sojar Az some forty miles northeast of Thuria . 
All that I had to do was follow this river to the sea and then follow the coast to Thuria . 
Following the river downward I soon lost sight of the tiny planet as I entered the mazes of a lofty forest . 
Nor did I catch another glimpse of it for some time several marches at least . 
But I was not long in coming to a realization of the cause of the shadow . 
Above me hung another world . 
I could see its moun tains and valleys , oceans , lakes , and rivers , its broad , grassy plains and dense forests . 
But too great was the distance and too deep the shadow of its under side for me to distinguish any movement as of animal life . 
Instantly a great curiosity was awakened within me . 
The questions which the sight of this planet , so tanta lizingly close , raised in my mind were numerous and unanswerable . 
The little world had that which Pellucidar could not have a day and night , and greatest of boons to one outer earthly born time . 
Here I saw a chance to give time to Pellucidar , using this mighty clock , revolving perpetually in the heavens , to record the passage of the hours for the earth below . 
Here should be located an observatory , from which might be flashed by wireless to every corner of the em pire the correct time once each day . 
But then was not the time for dreaming I must de vote my mind to the purpose of my journey . 
So I hastened onward beneath the great shadow . 
As I ad vanced I could not but note the changing nature of the vegetation and the paling of its hues . 
The river led me a short distance within the shadow before it emptied into the Sojar Az . 
Then I continued in a southerly direction along the coast toward the village of Thuria , where I hoped to find Goork and deliver to him my credentials . 
I had progressed no great distance from the mouth of the river when I discerned , lying some distance at sea , a great island . 
This I assumed to be the stronghold of Hooja , nor did I doubt that upon it even now was Dian . 
The way was most difficult , since shortly after leaving the river I encountered lofty cliffs split by numerous long , narrow fiords , each of which necessitated a con siderable detour . 
As the crow flies it is about twenty miles from the mouth of the river to Thuria , but be fore I had covered half of it I was fagged . 
I carried bow and arrows to conserve my ammunition supply , but so quick was the little animal that I had no time to draw and fit a shaft . 
In fact my dinner was a hundred yards away and going like the proverbial bat when I dropped my six shooter on it . 
It was a pretty shot and when coupled with a good dinner made me quite contented with myself . 
After eating I lay down and slept . 
And the wolf dog pack was preparing to rush me . 
CHAPTER VII FROM PLIGHT TO PLIGHT I have never been much of a runner I hate running . 
Just as I reached the verge of the cliff the foremost of the brutes was upon me . 
He leaped and closed his massive jaws upon my shoulder . 
The momentum of his flying body , added to that of my own , carried the two of us over the cliff . 
It was a hideous fall . 
The cliff was almost perpendicular . 
At its foot broke the sea against a solid wall of rock . 
We struck the cliff face once in our descent and then plunged into the salt sea . 
With the impact with the water the hyaenodon released his hold upon my shoulder . 
As I came sputtering to the surface I looked about for some tiny foot or hand hold where I might cling for a moment of rest and recuperation . 
The cliff itself offered me nothing , so I swam toward the mouth of the fiord . 
At the far end I could see that erosion from above had washed down sufficient rubble to form a narrow ribbon of beach . 
Toward this I swam with all my strength . 
Not once did I look behind me , since every unnecessary movement in swimming detracts so much from one's endurance speed . 
Not until I had drawn myself safely out upon the beach did I turn my eyes back toward the sea for the hyaenodon . 
He was swimming slowly and apparently painfully toward the beach upon where I stood . 
I watched him for a long time , wondering , why it was that such a doglike animal was not a better swimmer . 
As he neared me I realized that he was weakening rapidly . 
I had gathered a handful of stones to be ready for his assault when he landed , but in a moment I let them fall from my hands . 
It was evident that the brute either was no swimmer or else was severely in jured , for by now he was making practically no head way . 
Indeed , it was with quite apparent difficulty that he kept his nose above the surface of the sea . 
He was not more than fifty yards from shore when he went under . 
I watched the spot where he had disap peared , and in a moment I saw his head reappear . 
The look of dumb misery in his eyes struck a chord in my breast , for I love dogs . 
I forgot that he was a vicious , primordial wolf thing a man eater , a scourge , and a terror . 
I saw only the sad eyes that looked like the eyes of Raja , my dead collie of the outer world . 
I did not stop to weigh and consider . 
In other words , I did not stop to think , which I believe must be the way of men who do things in contradistinction to those who think much and do nothing . 
Instead , I leaped back into the water and swam out toward the drowning beast . 
At first he showed his teeth at my approach , but just before I reached him he went under for the second time , so that I had to dive to get him . 
Here I found that one of his forelegs was broken the crash against the cliff face must have done it . 
I had to tear part of my shirt into bits to obtain a bandage , but at last the job was done . 
Then I sat stroking the savage head and talking to the beast in the man dog talk with which you are familiar , if you ever owned and loved a dog . 
We were bottled up at the head of the fiord as completely as if we had been behind prison bars . 
Before us spread the Sojar Az , and else where about us rose unscalable cliffs . 
It was not long before the hyaenodon's leg was suffi ciently mended to permit him to rise and hobble about on three legs . 
I shall never forget with what intent in terest I watched his first attempt . 
Close at my hand lay my pile of rocks . 
Slowly the beast came to his three good feet . 
He stretched himself , lowered his head , and lapped water from the drinking shell at his side , turned and looked at me , and then hobbled off toward the cliffs . 
Thrice he traversed the entire extent of our prison , seeking , I imagine , a loop hole for escape , but finding none he returned in my direction . 
Slowly he came quite close to me , sniffed at my shoes , my puttees , my hands , and then limped off a few feet and lay down again . 
Now that he was able to get around , I was a little un certain as to the wisdom of my impulsive mercy . 
To say the least , I was uncomfortable . 
I have had too much experience with dumb animals to bank very strongly on any sense of gratitude which may be attributed to them by inexperienced sentimen talists . 
But finally I was forced to sleep . 
Tired nature would be put off no longer . 
I simply fell asleep , willy nilly , as I sat looking out to sea . 
We were well within the Land of Awful Shadow . 
When I awoke it was with a start , for a heavy body was upon me . 
I am no weakling and never have been . 
My experi ence in the hard life of the inner world has turned my thews to steel . 
Even such giants as Ghak the Hairy One have praised my strength but to it is added another quality which they lack science . 
In the instant that I arose I had seen the hyaenodon lying asleep beside a boulder a few yards away . 
So nearly was he the color of the rock that he was scarcely discernible . 
Evidently the newcomers had not seen him . 
I had not more than freed myself from one of my antagonists before the other three were upon me . 
They did not work silently now , but charged me with savage cries a mistake upon their part . 
The fact that they did not draw their weapons against me convinced me that they desired to take me alive but I fought as desper ately as if death loomed immediate and sure . 
It was the hyaenodon ! In an instant he had pulled down one of the men , and with a single shake , terrier like , had broken his neck . 
Then he was upon another . 
Almost simultaneously the hyaenodon pulled down the remaining enemy , crushing his skull with a single bite of those fearsome jaws . 
The battle was over unless the beast considered me fair prey , too . 
The beast bad been handicapped but little by his splinted leg but having eaten he lay down and com menced to gnaw at the bandage . 
I was sitting some little distance away devouring shellfish , of which , by the way , I was becoming exceedingly tired . 
Presently , the hyaenodon arose and came toward me . 
He stopped in front of me and deliberately raised his bandaged leg and pawed my knee . 
His act was as intelligible as words he wished the bandage removed . 
I took the great paw in one hand and with the other hand untied and unwound the bandage , removed the splints and felt of the injured member . 
As far as I could judge the bone was completely knit . 
The joint was stiff when I bent it a little the brute winced but he neither growled nor tried to pull away . 
Very slowly and gently I rubbed the joint and applied pressure to it for a few moments . 
Then I set it down upon the ground . 
The hyaenodon walked around me a few times , and then lay down at my side , his body touching mine . 
I laid my hand upon his head . 
Slowly , I scratched about his ears and neck and down beneath the fierce jaws . 
The only sign he gave was to raise his chin a trifle that I might better caress him . 
That was enough ! From that moment I have never again felt suspicion of Raja , as I immediately named him . 
Man here had not yet reached the point where he might take the time from slaughter and escaping slaugh ter to make friends with any of the brute creation . 
I must qualify this statement a trifle and say that this was true of those tribes with which I was most familiar . 
The Thurians practice agriculture in a crude sort of way . 
It is my opinion that this is one of the earliest steps from savagery to civilization . 
The taming of wild beasts and their domestication follows . 
Perry argues that wild dogs were first domesticated for hunting purposes but I do not agree with him . 
However , I lean rather more strongly to the theory of accident . 
I glanced about in all directions , searching for an explanation . 
At last my eyes fell upon the bow of a small dugout protruding scarce a foot from behind a large boulder lying half in the water at the edge of the beach . 
At my discovery I leaped to my feet so suddenly that it brought Raja , growling and bristling , upon all fours in an instant . 
For the moment I had forgotten him . 
But his savage rumbling did not cause me any uneasiness . 
He glanced quickly about in all directions as if searching for the cause of my excitement . 
Then , as I walked rapidly down toward the dugout , he slunk silently after me . 
The dugout was similar in many respects to those which I had seen in use by the Mezops . 
In it were four paddles . 
I was much delighted , as it promptly offered me the escape I had been craving . 
I pushed it out into water that would float it , stepped in and called to Raja to enter . 
At first he did not seem to understand what I wished of him , but after I had paddled out a few yards he plunged through the surf and swam after me . 
After emerging from the fiord , I paddled southward along the coast , where presently the lofty cliffs gave way to lower and more level country . 
It was here some where that I should come upon the principal village of the Thurians . 
At the point where I landed the shore was quite low . 
A forest of pale , scrubby ferns ran down almost to the beach . 
Here I dragged up the dugout , hiding it well within the vegetation , and with some loose rocks built a cairn upon the beach to mark my cache . 
Then I turned my steps toward the Thurian village . 
As I proceeded I began to speculate upon the possible actions of Raja when we should enter the presence of other men than myself . 
I did not want Raja to attack any of the people upon whose friendship I so greatly depended , nor did I want him injured or slain by them . 
I wondered if Raja would stand for a leash . 
His head as he paced beside me was level with my hip . 
I laid my hand upon it caressingly . 
As I did so he turned and looked up into my face , his jaws parting and his red tongue lolling as you have seen your own dog's beneath a love pat . 
Just been waiting all your life to be tamed and loved , haven't you , old man ? I asked . 
You're nothing but a good pup , and the man who put the hyaeno in your name ought to be sued for libel . 
Raja bared his mighty fangs with upcurled , snarling lips and licked my hand . 
You're grinning , you old fraud , you ! I cried . 
If you're not , I'll eat you . 
I'll bet a doughnut you're nothing but some kid's poor old Fido , masquerading around as a real , live man eater . 
And so we walked on together toward Thuria I talking to the beast at my side , and he seem ing to enjoy my company no less than I enjoyed his . 
Thus I dreamed as we moved on toward Thuria . 
My dreaming was rudely shattered by a savage growl from Raja . 
I looked down at him . 
He had stopped in his tracks as one turned to stone . 
A thin ridge of stiff hair bristled along the entire length of his spine . 
His yel low green eyes were fastened upon the scrubby jungle at our right . 
I fastened my fingers in the bristles at his neck and turned my eyes in the direction that his pointed . 
At first I saw nothing . 
Then a slight movement of the bushes riveted my attention . 
I thought it must be some wild beast , and was glad of the primitive weapons I had taken from the bodies of the warriors who had attacked me . 
Presently I distinguished two eyes peering at us from the vegetation . 
I took a step in their direction , and as I did so a youth arose and fled precipitately in the direction we had been going . 
Raja struggled to be after him , but I held tightly to his neck , an act which he did not seem to relish , for he turned on me with bared fangs . 
I determined that now was as good a time as any to discover just how deep was Raja's affection for me . 
One of us could be master , and logically I was the one . 
I cuffed him sharply across the nose . 
He looked it me for a moment in surprised bewilderment , and then he growled again . 
I made another feint at him , expecting that it would bring him at my throat but in stead he winced and crouched down . 
Raja was subdued ! I stooped and patted him . 
Then I took a piece of the rope that constituted a part of my equipment and made a leash for him . 
Thus we resumed our journey toward Thuria . 
The youth who had seen us was evidently of the Thurians . 
There was a rude rectangle walled with logs and boulders , in which were a hundred or more thatched huts of similar con struction . 
Ladders that could be re moved by night led over the palisade . 
Before the village were assembled a great concourse of warriors . 
Lidi , by the way , is both the singular and plural form of the noun that describes the huge beasts of bur den of the Thurians . 
They are enormous quadrupeds , eighty or a hundred feet long , with very small heads perched at the top of very long , slender necks . 
Their heads are quite forty feet from the ground . 
Their gait is slow and deliberate , but so enormous are their strides that , as a matter of fact , they cover the ground quite rapidly . 
Perry has told me that they are almost identical with the fossilized remains of the diplodocus of the outer crust's Jurassic age . 
Raja tugged at his leash , growling and showing his long white fangs . 
My free hand I held above my head , palm out , in token of the peacefulness of my mission . 
In the foreground I saw the youth who had discov ered us , and I could tell from the way he carried him self that he was quite overcome by his own importance . 
The warriors about him were all fine looking fellows , though shorter and squatter than the Sarians or the Amozites . 
A little in advance of the others was a bearded fel low tricked out in many ornaments . 
I didn't need to ask to know that he was the chieftain doubtless Goork , father of Kolk . 
Now to him I addressed myself . 
I am David , I said , Emperor of the Federated Kingdoms of Pellucidar . 
Doubtless you have heard of me ? He nodded his head affirmatively . 
I come from Sari , I continued , 'where I just met Kolk , the son of Goork . 
I bear a token from Kolk to his father , which will prove that I am a friend . 
I am Goork , he said . 
Where is the token ? Here , I replied , and fished into the game bag where I had placed it . 
Goork and his people waited in silence . 
My hand searched the inside of the bag . 
It was empty ! The token had been stolen with my arms ! CHAPTER VIII CAPTIVE When Goork and his people saw that I had no token they commenced to taunt me . 
You do not come from Kolk , but from the Sly One ! they cried . 
He has sent you from the island to spy upon us . 
Go away , or we will set upon you and kill you . 
I explained that all my belongings had been stolen from me , and that the robber must have taken the token too but they didn't believe me . 
As proof that I was one of Hooja's people , they pointed to my weapons , which they said were ornamented like those of the is land clan . 
Further , they said that no good man went in company with a jalok and that by this line of reason ing I certainly was a bad man . 
I think Raja sensed their antagonism , for he kept tug ging at his leash and growling ominously . 
They were a bit in awe of him , and kept at a safe distance . 
It was evident that they could not comprehend why it was that this savage brute did not turn upon me and rend me . 
I wasted a long time there trying to persuade Goork to accept me at my own valuation , but he was too canny . 
Back along the beach toward the hidden canoe we made our way . 
By the time we came to the cairn I was dog tired . 
Throwing myself upon the sand I soon slept , and with Raja stretched out beside me I felt a far greater security than I had enjoyed for a long time . 
I awoke much refreshed to find Raja's eyes glued upon me . 
The moment I opened mine he rose , stretched himself , and without a backward glance plunged into the jungle . 
For several minutes I could hear him crash ing through the brush . 
I wondered if he had left me to return to his fierce pack . 
A feeling of loneliness overwhelmed me . 
With a sigh I turned to the work of dragging the canoe down to the sea . 
As I entered the jungle where the dugout lay a hare darted from beneath the boat's side , and a well aimed cast of my javelin brought it down . 
I was hungry I had not realized it before so I sat upon the edge of the canoe and devoured my repast . 
The last remnants gone , I again busied myself with preparations for my expedition to the island . 
I did not know for certain that Dian was there but I surmised as much . 
Nor could I guess what obstacles might confront me in an effort to rescue her . 
I was still a little downcast by the desertion of my new found friend , though I tried to assure myself that it was nothing but what I might have expected . 
The trip across the water to the island was unevent ful . 
I was mighty glad to be in the sunshine again when I passed out of the shadow of the dead world about half way between the mainland and the island . 
There is nothing more dis piriting to me than absence of sunshine . 
I found a shallow reef running far out into the sea and rather precipitous cliffs running almost to the surf . 
The country beyond them appeared more open and park like than I had anticipated , since from the main land the entire coast that is visible seems densely clothed with tropical jungle . 
Altogether , the country was very much broken and very beautiful . 
As I let my eyes roam over the scene I suddenly be came aware of figures moving upon the flat top of a far distant butte . 
To descend to the valley required no great effort . 
My life within Pellucidar has rather quickened my senses of sight , hearing , and smell , and , too , certain primitive intuitive or instinctive qualities that seem blunted in civilized man . 
A sheep might gaze at you without transmitting a warning through your sub jective mind , because you are in no danger from a sheep . 
Thus was it with me then . 
I grasped my cudgel more firmly and unslung my javelin , carrying it in my left hand . 
I peered to left and right , but I saw nothing . 
Then , all quite suddenly , there fell about my neck and shoulders , around my arms and body , a number of pliant fiber ropes . 
In a jiffy I was trussed up as neatly as you might wish . 
One of the nooses dropped to my ankles and was jerked up with a suddenness that brought me to my face upon the ground . 
Then something heavy and hairy sprang upon my back . 
I fought to draw my knife , but hairy hands grasped my wrists and , dragging them be hind my back , bound them securely . 
Next my feet were bound . 
Then I was turned over upon my back to look up into the faces of my captors . 
There was the facial length and great eyes of the sheep , and the bull neck and hideous fangs of the gorilla . 
The bodies and limbs were both man and gorilla like . 
As they bent over me they conversed in a mono syllabic tongue that was perfectly intelligible to me . 
It was amplified by many gestures which filled in the speech gaps . 
I asked them what they intended doing with me but , like our own North American Indians when questioned by a white man , they pretended not to understand me . 
One of them swung me to his shoulder as lightly as if I had been a shoat . 
He was a huge creature , as were his fellows , standing fully seven feet upon his short legs and weighing considerably more than a quarter of a ton . 
Two went ahead of my bearer and three behind . 
In this order we cut to the right through the forest to the foot of the hill where precipitous cliffs appeared to bar our farther progress in this direction . 
But my escort never paused . 
Like ants upon a wall , they scaled that seemingly unscalable barrier , clinging , Heaven knows how , to its ragged perpendicular face . 
During most of the short journey to the summit I must admit that my hair stood on end . 
Presently , however , we topped the thing and stood upon the level mesa which crowned it . 
Immediately from all about , out of burrows and rough , rocky lairs , poured a perfect torrent of beasts similar to my captors . 
Across the mesa we went , to stop at last before a large pile of rocks in which an opening appeared . 
Here my guards set me upon my feet and called out a word which sounded like Gr gr gr ! and which I later learned was the name of their king . 
Presently there emerged from the cavernous depths of the lair a monstrous creature , scarred from a hundred battles , almost hairless and with an empty socket where one eye had been . 
Their skins , where skin showed , were white . 
The great man brute seated himself upon a flat rock his throne , I imagine just before the entrance to his lair . 
With elbows on knees and chin in palms he re garded me intently through his lone sheep eye while one of my captors told of my taking . 
When all had been related Gr gr gr questioned me . 
You are an enemy , was Gr gr gr's initial declaration . 
You belong to the tribe of Hooja . 
Ah ! So they knew Hooja and he was their enemy ! Good ! I am an enemy of Hooja , I replied . 
He has stolen my mate and I have come here to take her away from him and punish Hooja . 
How could you do that alone ? I do not know , I answered , but I should have tried had you not captured me . 
What do you intend to do with me ? You shall work for us . 
You will not kill me ? I asked . 
We do not kill except in self defense , he replied self defense and punishment . 
Those who would kill us and those who do wrong we kill . 
If we knew you were one of Hooja's people we might kill you , for all Hooja's people are bad people but you say you are an enemy of Hooja . 
You may not speak the truth , but until we learn that you have lied we shall not kill you . 
If you hate Hooja , I suggested , why not let me , who hate him , too , go and punish him ? For some time Gr gr gr sat in thought . 
Then he raised his head and addressed my guard . 
Take him to his work , he ordered . 
As if to emphasize it he turned and entered his burrow . 
My guard conducted me far ther into the mesa , where we came presently to a tiny depression or valley , at one end of which gushed a warm spring . 
The view that opened before me was the most sur prising that I have ever seen . 
They put me to work cultivating in a patch of melons . 
How long it really was I do not know , of course but it was all too long . 
The creatures that worked about me were quite sim ple and friendly . 
One of them proved to be a son of Gr gr gr . 
He had broken some minor tribal law , and was working out his sentence in the fields . 
He told me that his tribe had lived upon this hilltop always , and that there were other tribes like them dwelling upon other hilltops . 
Now they were afraid but some day they would go in a body and fall upon Hooja and his people and slay them all . 
Gr gr gr's son seemed much impressed by my sug gestion . 
He said that when he was through in the fields he would speak to his father about the matter . 
Wherefore , he concluded , we shall slay you as soon as the melons are cultivated . 
I hastened to cultivate the weeds which grew among the melon vines . 
Where there had been one sickly weed before , I nourished two healthy ones . 
When I found a particularly promising variety of weed growing elsewhere than among my melons , I forthwith dug it up and transplanted it among my charges . 
My masters did not seem to realize my perfidy . 
CHAPTER IX HOOJA'S CUTTHROATS APPEAR I had built a little shelter of rocks and brush where I might crawl in and sleep out of the perpetual light and heat of the noonday sun . 
When I was tired or hungry I retired to my humble cot . 
My masters never interposed the slightest objection . 
The only flesh they eat is that of herbivorous animals and birds . 
When they hunt the mighty thag , the prehistoric bos of the outer crust , a single male , with his fiber rope , will catch and kill the greatest of the bulls . 
Well , as I was about to say , I had this little shelter at the edge of my melon patch . 
Here I was resting from my labors on a certain occasion when I heard a great hub bub in the village , which lay about a quarter of a mile away . 
Presently a male came racing toward the field , shout ing excitedly . 
The other workers also ran forward to meet the mes senger , who quickly unburdened himself of his informa tion , and as quickly turned and scampered back toward the village . 
When running these beast men often go upon all fours . 
Thus they leap over obstacles that would slow up a human being , and upon the level attain a speed that would make a thoroughbred look to his laurels . 
I was alone ! It was the first time since my capture that no beast man had been within sight of me . 
The two had returned to the village unscratched , while but a single one of Hooja's half dozen had escaped to report the outcome of the battle to their leader . 
Now Hooja was coming to punish Gr gr gr's people . 
Did I take advantage of my opportunity ? I did not . 
Instead , lured by the din of strife and by the desire to deliver a stroke , however feeble , against hated Hooja , I wheeled and ran directly toward the village . 
Along the very edge of the cliff top stood a thin line of mighty males the best rope throwers of the tribe . 
A few feet behind these the rest of the males , with the exception of about twenty , formed a second line . 
Still farther in the rear all the women and young children were clus tered into a single group under the protection of the re maining twenty fighting males and all the old males . 
But it was the work of the first two lines that in terested me . 
As the attackers came on they paused occasionally wherever a projection gave them sufficient foothold and launched arrows and spears at the defenders above them . 
During the entire battle both sides hurled taunts and insults at one another the human beings naturally excelling the brutes in the coarseness and vileness of their vilification and invective . 
The firing line of the brute men wielded no weapon other than their long fiber nooses . 
Gr gr gr was standing in the center of the first line . 
All about him were boulders and large fragments of broken rock . 
I approached him and without a word toppled a large mass of rock over the edge of the cliff . 
Gr gr gr turned toward me in surprise . 
For an in stant he appeared to doubt the sincerity of my motives . 
It , too , did its allotted work of destruc tion . 
Gr gr gr was coming toward me again . 
I pointed to the litter of rubble upon the cliff top . 
Hurl these down upon the enemy ! I cried to him . 
In less than no time the cliff face was stripped of enemies and the village of Gr gr gr was saved . 
Gr gr gr was standing beside me when the last of the cave men disappeared in rapid flight down the valley . 
He was looking at me intently . 
Those were your people , he said . 
Why did you kill them ? They were not my people , I returned . 
I have told you that before , but you would not believe me . 
Gilak , he said , you have made Gr gr gr ashamed . 
He would have killed you . 
How can he reward you ? Set me free , I replied quickly . 
You are free , he said . 
You may go down when you wish , or you may stay with us . 
If you go you may always return . 
Naturally , I elected to go . 
I explained all over again to Gr gr gr the nature of my mission . 
He listened atten tively after I had done he offered to send some of his people with me to guide me to Hooja's village . 
I was not slow in accepting his offer . 
First , however , we must eat . 
The hunters upon whom Hooja's men had fallen had brought back the meat of a great thag . 
There would be a feast to commemorate the victory a feast and dancing . 
I had never witnessed a tribal function of the brute folk , though I had often heard strange sounds coming from the village , where I had not been allowed since my capture . 
Now I took part in one of their orgies . 
It will live forever in my memory . 
The combination of bestiality and humanity was oftentimes pathetic , and again grotesque or horrible . 
Beneath the glaring noonday sun , in the sweltering heat of the mesa top , the huge , hairy creatures leaped in a great circle . 
I had to wait until the processes of digestion had re leased my escort from its torpor . 
But at last we were started six great males and myself . 
Gr gr gr had returned my weapons to me , and at last I was once more upon my oft interrupted way toward my goal . 
Or she might have found the means either to repel his advances or escape him . 
The ugly creatures were far from the cowardly things that our own hyenas are reputed to be they stood their ground with bared fangs as we approached them . 
So the hyenas moved a little from our line of march , closing in again upon their feasts when we had passed . 
Well within this forest my escort halted . 
There ! they said , and pointed ahead . 
We are to go no farther . 
Thus having guided me to my destination they left me . 
Ahead of me , through the trees , I could see what appeared to be the foot of a steep hill . 
Toward this I made my way . 
The forest ran to the very base of a cliff , in the face of which were the mouths of many caves . 
They appeared untenanted but I decided to watch for a while before venturing farther . 
They descended into the forest and disappeared . 
There were several war riors with them a guard , I presume . 
After this came other parties , and two or three groups who passed out of the forest and up the cliff face to enter the same cave . 
I could not understand it . 
All who came out had emerged from the same cave . 
All who returned reentered it . 
No other cave gave evidence of habitation , and no cave but one of extraordinary size could have accommodated all the people whom I had seen pass in and out of its mouth . 
For a long time I sat and watched the coming and going of great numbers of the cave folk . 
Not once did one leave the cliff by any other opening save that from which I had seen the first party come , nor did any re enter the cliff through another aperture . 
High above the ground I reached a point whence I could see the summit of the hill . 
Evidently it was a flat topped butte similar to that on which dwelt the tribe of Gr gr gr . 
As I sat gazing at it a figure appeared at the very edge . 
It was that of a young girl in whose hair was a gorgeous bloom plucked from some flowering tree of the forest . 
I had seen her pass beneath me but a short while before and enter the small cave that had swallowed all of the returning tribesmen . 
The cave was but the mouth of a passage that led upward through the cliff to the summit of the hill . 
It served merely as an avenue from their lofty citadel to the valley below . 
I kept close to the edge of the forest , in the very midst of which the hill seemed to rise . 
Though I carefully scanned the cliff as I traversed its base , I saw no sign of any other entrance than that to which my guides had led me . 
After some little time the roar of the sea broke upon my ears . 
Shortly after I came upon the broad ocean which breaks at this point at the very foot of the great hill where Hooja had found safe refuge for himself and his villains . 
I threw my self down behind a large boulder where I could watch the dugout and its occupants without myself being seen . 
They paddled toward me for a while and then , about a hundred yards from me , they turned straight in toward the foot of the frowning cliffs . 
Again I crouched behind a boulder to observe what would next transpire nor did I have long to wait . 
The dugout , which contained but two men , was drawn close to the rocky wall . 
A fiber rope , one end of which was tied to the boat , was made fast about a projection of the cliff face . 
Then the two men commenced the ascent of the almost perpendicular wall toward the summit several hundred feet above . 
I looked on in amazement , for , splendid climbers though the cave men of Pellucidar are , I never before had seen so remarkable a feat per formed . 
Upwardly they moved without a pause , to dis appear at last over the summit . 
If they had scaled that cliff I could , and if I couldn't I should die in the attempt . 
At last I reached the top , and very glad I was , too . 
Cautiously I raised my head until my eyes were above the cliff crest . 
Before me spread a rough mesa , liberally sprinkled with large boulders . 
There was no village in sight nor any living creature . 
I drew myself to level ground and stood erect . 
A few trees grew among the boulders . 
Very carefully I ad vanced from tree to tree and boulder to boulder toward the inland end of the mesa . 
I stopped often to listen and look cautiously about me in every direction . 
CHAPTER X THE RAID ON THE CAVE PRISON His head was turned over his shoulder as I first saw him he was looking back toward the village . 
As I leaped for him his eyes fell upon me . 
Never in my life have I seen a more surprised mortal than this poor cave man . 
The fellow lay looking up at me with the surprise still deeply writ ten on his countenance . 
At last , all of a sudden , a look of recognition entered his eyes . 
I have seen you before , he said . 
I saw you in the arena at the Mahars' city of Phutra when the thipdars dragged the tarag from you and your mate . 
Afterward they put me in the arena with two warriors from Gombul . 
It would have been the same had there been ten warriors from Gombul . 
I slew them , winning my free dom . 
Look ! He half turned his left shoulder toward me , exhibiting the newly healed scar of the Mahars' branded mark . 
Then , he continued , as I was returning to my peo ple I met some of them fleeing . 
They told me that one called Hooja the Sly One had come and seized our village , putting our people into slavery . 
I was discovered and captured , but Hooja did not kill me . 
I helped him capture her , and we are good friends . 
So when I learned that Dian the Beautiful One was Hooja's prisoner , I told him that I would not aid him if he harmed her . 
Recently one of Hooja's warriors overheard me talk ing with another prisoner . 
We were planning to combine all the prisoners , seize weapons , and when most of Hooja's warriors were away , slay the rest and retake our hilltop . 
Had we done so we could have held it , for there are only two entrances the narrow tunnel at one end and the steep path up the cliffs at the other . 
But when Hooja heard what we had planned he was very angry , and ordered that I die . 
Presently a little hole appeared in the wall at the point from which the voice had come . 
After a time I saw a woman's hand digging with a bit of stone . 
Just now I was going to the other end of the island to see if a boat lay there , and if the way was clear for our escape . 
The speaker pointed toward the northeast . 
It is wide and smooth and slow running almost to the land of Sari , he added . 
And where is Dian the Beautiful One now ? I asked . 
I had released my prisoner as soon as I found that he was Hooja's enemy , and now the pair of us were squat ting beside the boulder while he told his story . 
She returned to the cave where she had been im prisoned , he replied , and is awaiting me there . 
There is no danger that Hooja will come while you are away ? Hooja is upon the Island of Trees , he replied . 
Can you direct me to the cave so that I can find it alone ? I asked . 
I thought it best for but one of us to return , since two could accomplish but little more than one and would double the risk of discovery . 
In the meantime he could make his way to the sea and guard the boat , which I told him lay there at the foot of the cliff . 
Then we parted he to take up his position where he could watch the boat and await Dian , I to crawl cau tiously on toward the caves . 
I had no difficulty in fol lowing the directions given me by Juag , the name by which Dacor's friend said he was called . 
There was the leaning tree , my first point he told me to look for after rounding the boulder where we had met . 
After that I crawled to the balanced rock , a huge boulder resting upon a tiny base no larger than the palm of your hand . 
From here I had my first view of the village of caves . 
A low bluff ran diagonally across one end of the mesa , and in the face of this bluff were the mouths of many caves . 
Zig zag trails led up to them , and narrow ledges scooped from the face of the soft rock connected those upon the same level . 
The cave in which Juag had been confined was at the extreme end of the cliff nearest me . 
By taking advan tage of the bluff itself , I could approach within a few feet of the aperture without being visible from any other cave . 
However I exercised the greatest care in approaching the cliff . 
After watching for a while until I caught an in stant when every head was turned away from me , I darted , rabbitlike , into the cave . 
The result was gradually increas ing darkness as one passed into each succeeding cham ber . 
In the last of the three I could just distinguish objects , and that was all . 
As I was groping around the walls for the hole that should lead into the cave where Dian was imprisoned , I heard a man's voice quite close to me . 
The speaker had evidently but just entered , for he spoke in a loud tone , demanding the whereabouts of one whom he had come in search of . 
Where are you , woman ? he cried . 
Hooja has sent for you . 
And then a woman's voice answered him And what does Hooja want of me ? The voice was Dian's . 
I groped in the direction of the sounds , feeling for the hole . 
He wishes you brought to the Island of Trees , replied the man for he is ready to take you as his mate . 
I will not go , said Dian . 
I am sent to bring you , and bring you I shall . 
I could hear him crossing the cave toward her . 
Frantically I clawed the wall of the cave in which I was in an effort to find the elusive aperture that would lead me to Dian's side . 
I heard the sound of a scuffle in the next cave . 
Then my fingers sank into loose rock and earth in the side of the cave . 
Plunging my weight against the crumbling mass , I sent it crashing into the adjoining cavern . 
With it came I , David , Emperor of Pellucidar . 
I doubt if any other potentate in a world's history ever made a more un dignified entrance . 
I landed head first on all fours , but I came quickly and was on my feet before the man in the dark guessed what had happened . 
He saw me , though , when I arose and , sensing that no friend came thus precipitately , turned to meet me even as I charged him . 
I had my stone knife in my hand , and he had his . 
In the darkness of the cave there was little opportunity for a display of science , though even at that I venture to say that we fought a very pretty duel . 
My opponent was large , but he also was active and no mean knife man . 
He caught me once fairly in the shoulder I carry the scar yet , and shall carry it to the grave . 
He rather neglected his knife for the moment in his greater desire to get his hands on me . 
Seeing the opening , I swung my left fist fairly to the point of his jaw . 
Before ever he could scramble up again I was on him and had buried my knife in his heart . 
Then I stood up and there was Dian facing me and peering at me through the dense gloom . 
You are not Juag ! she exclaimed . 
Who are you ? I took a step toward her , my arms outstretched . 
It is I , Dian , I said . 
We couldn't devote much time , though , to the happiness of love making , for we were in the midst of enemies who might discover us at any moment . 
I drew her into the adjoining cave . 
Thence we made our way to the mouth of the cave that had given me entrance to the cliff . 
Here I reconnoitered for a mo ment , and seeing the coast clear , ran swiftly forth with Dian at my side . 
We dodged around the cliff end , then paused for an instant , listening . 
No sound reached our ears to indicate that any had seen us , and we moved cautiously onward along the way by which I had come . 
And then how Hooja had sent four others to find me and take me prisoner . 
But these men , she said , had not yet re turned , or at least she had not heard of their return . 
'Nor will you ever , I responded , for they have gone to that place whence none ever returns . 
I then related my adventure with these four . 
We had come almost to the cliff edge where Juag should be awaiting us when we saw two men walking rapidly toward the same spot from another direction . 
As quickly as possible , without exposing our selves too much to the enemy , we hastened forward that we might reach Juag as quickly as they . 
Evidently they had wasted precious moments looking for him in other portions of the mesa . 
When I saw that the two of them were rushing him , I called out to attract their attention to the fact that they had more than a single man to cope with . 
They paused at the sound of my voice and looked about . 
When they discovered Dian and me they exchanged a few words , and one of them continued toward Juag while the other turned upon us . 
I could scarce refrain a grin when I thought of the wasted possibilities of that deadly revolver in the hands of an untutored warrior of the stone age . 
Had he but reversed it and pulled the trigger he might still be alive maybe he is for all I know , since I did not kill him then . 
When he was about twenty feet from me I flung my javelin with a quick movement that I had learned from Ghak . 
He ducked to avoid it , and instead of receiving it in his heart , for which it was intended , he got it on the side of the head . 
Down he went all in a heap . 
Then I glanced toward Juag . 
He was having a most exciting time . 
I saw quickly that in another moment Juag must de liberately hurl himself to death over the precipice or be pushed over by his foeman . 
And as I saw Juag's predicament I saw , too , in the same instant , a way to relieve him . 
Leaping quickly to the side of the fellow I had just felled , I snatched up my fallen revolver . 
It was a desperate chance to take , and I realized it in the instant that I threw the gun up from my hip and pulled the trigger . 
There was no time to aim . 
Juag was upon the very brink of the chasm . 
His relentless foe was pushing him hard , beat ing at him furiously with the heavy knife . 
And then the revolver spoke loud and sharp . 
The giant threw his hands above his head , whirled about like a huge top , and lunged forward over the precipice . 
Horror struck , I hastened to the brink of the abyss just in time to see two splashes upon the surface of the little cove below . 
For an instant I stood there watching with Dian at my side . 
Then , to my utter amazement , I saw Juag rise to the surface and swim strongly toward the boat . 
He shook his head and mut tered something which I could not hear at so great a distance but when I pushed him he promised to wait for us . 
At the same instant Dian caught my arm and pointed toward the village . 
My shot had brought a crowd of natives on the run toward us . 
The fellow whom I had stunned with my javelin had regained consciousness and scrambled to his feet . 
He was now racing as fast as he could go back toward his people . 
There was but one hope . 
That was to get Dian started for the bottom without delay . 
I took her in my arms just for an instant I felt , somehow , that it might be for the last time . 
For the life of me I couldn't see how both of us could escape . 
I asked her if she could make the descent alone if she were not afraid . 
She smiled up at me bravely and shrugged her shoulders . 
And you ? she asked as she swung over the edge of the cliff . 
I shall follow you after I take a shot or two at our friends , I replied . 
I just want to give them a taste of this new medicine which is going to cure Pellucidar of all its ills . 
That will stop them long enough for me to join you . 
Now hurry , and tell Juag to be ready to shove off the moment I reach the boat , or the instant that it becomes apparent that I cannot reach it . 
She hated to promise to desert me , nor would she only shaking her head and making no move to descend . 
The tribesmen were nearing us . 
Juag was shouting up to us from below . 
It was evident that he realized from my actions that I was attempting to persuade Dian to descend , and that grave danger threatened us from above . 
Dive ! I looked at Dian and then down at the abyss below us . 
The cove appeared no larger than a saucer . 
How Juag ever had hit it I could not guess . 
It is the only way there is no time to climb down . 
CHAPTER XI ESCAPE Dian glanced downward and shuddered . 
Her tribe were hill people they were not accustomed to swim ming other than in quiet rivers and placid lakelets . 
It was not the steep that appalled her . 
It was the ocean vast , mysterious , terrible . 
To dive into it from this great height was beyond her . 
I couldn't wonder , either . 
To have attempted it myself seemed too preposterous even for thought . 
Only one consideration could have prompted me to leap headforemost from that giddy height suicide or at least so I thought at the moment . 
Quick ! I urged Dian . 
You cannot dive but I can hold them until you reach safety . 
And you ? she asked once more . 
Can you dive when they come too close ? Otherwise you could not escape if you waited here until I reached the bottom . 
I saw that she would not leave me unless she thought that I could make that frightful dive as we had seen Juag make it . 
I glanced once downward then with a mental shrug I assured her that I would dive the mo ment that she reached the boat . 
Satisfied , she began the descent carefully , yet swiftly . 
They were coming on at a great rate . 
I raised my revolver , took deliberate aim at the foremost warrior , and pulled the trigger . 
With the bark of the gun the fellow lunged forward . 
His head doubled beneath him . 
He rolled over and over two or three times before he came to a stop , to lie very quietly in the thick grass among the brilliant wild flowers . 
One of them hurled a javelin toward me , but it fell short they were just beyond javelin range . 
There were two armed with bows and arrows these I kept my eyes on . 
All of them appeared awe struck and frightened by the sound and effect of the firearm . 
They kept looking from the corpse to me and jabbering among themselves . 
I took advantage of the lull in hostilities to throw a quick glance over the edge toward Dian . 
She was half way down the cliff and progressing finely . 
Then I turned back toward the enemy . 
One of the bowmen was fitting an arrow to his bow . 
Whoever shoots at me or advances toward me I shall kill as I killed him ! I pointed at the dead man . 
The fellow lowered his bow . 
Again there was animated discussion . 
I could see that those who were not armed with bows were urging something upon the two who were . 
At last the majority appeared to prevail , for simul taneously the two archers raised their weapons . 
At the same instant I fired at one of them , dropping him in his tracks . 
The other , however , launched his missile , but the report of my gun had given him such a start that the arrow flew wild above my head . 
A second after and he , too , was sprawled upon the sward with a round hole between his eyes . 
It had been a rather good shot . 
I glanced over the edge again . 
Dian was almost at the bottom . 
I could see Juag standing just beneath her with his hands upstretched to assist her . 
A sullen roar from the warriors recalled my attention toward them . 
They stood shaking their fists at me and yelling insults . 
From the direction of the village I saw a single warrior coming to join them . 
He was a huge fellow , and when he strode among them I could tell by his bearing and their deference toward him that he was a chieftain . 
All they had needed had arrived namely , a brave leader . 
I had two unfired cartridges in the chambers of my gun . 
I let the big warrior have one of them , thinking that his death would stop them all . 
But I guess they were worked up to such a frenzy of rage by this time that nothing would have stopped them . 
At any rate , they only yelled the louder as he fell and increased their speed toward me . 
I dropped another with my remaining cartridge . 
Then they were upon me or almost . 
I thought of my promise to Dian the awful abyss was behind me a big devil with a huge bludgeon in front of me . 
I grasped my six shooter by the barrel and hurled it squarely in his face with all my strength . 
I know something of diving , and all that I know I put into that dive , which I was positive would be my last . 
For a couple of hundred feet I fell in horizontal position . 
The momentum I gained was terrific . 
I could feel the air almost as a solid body , so swiftly I hurtled through it . 
Then my position gradually changed to the vertical , and with hands outstretched I slipped through the air , cleaving it like a flying arrow . 
Just before I struck the water a perfect shower of javelins fell all about . 
My enemies bad rushed to the brink and hurled their weapons after me . 
By a miracle I was untouched . 
In the final instant I saw that I had cleared the rocks and was going to strike the water fairly . 
Then I was in and plumbing the depths . 
I suppose I didn't really go very far down , but it seemed to me that I should never stop . 
But at last my bead popped above the waves , and I filled my lungs with air . 
Before me was the boat , from which Juag and Dian were clambering . 
I couldn't understand why they were deserting it now , when we were about to set out for the mainland in it but when I reached its side I under stood . 
An occasional javelin was still dropping perilously close to us , so we hastened to draw as close as possible to the cliffside , where we were compara tively safe from the missiles . 
But the way Juag had chosen was rough and round about , so that we consumed one or two more marches in covering the distance than if we had followed the river . 
This it was which proved our undoing . 
For a time thereafter I seemed to be entirely bereft of hope . 
I could see no ray of promise in the future only immediate death for Juag and me , which didn't concern me much in the face of what lay in store for Dian . 
Before I had known her , Jubal the Ugly One had pursued her across a savage world to make her his mate . 
She had eluded him , and finally I had slain him but terror and privations , and exposure to fierce beasts had haunted her footsteps during all her lonely flight from him . 
And when I had returned to the outer world the old trials had recommenced with Hooja in Jubal's role . 
I could almost have wished for death to vouchsafe her that peace which fate seemed to deny her in this life . 
I spoke to her on the subject , suggesting that we expire together . 
Do not fear , David , she replied . 
I shall end my life before ever Hooja can harm me but first I shall see that Hooja dies . 
She drew from her breast a little leathern thong , to the end of which was fastened a tiny pouch . 
What have you there ? I asked . 
Do you recall that time you stepped upon the thing you call viper in your world ? she asked . 
The accident gave you the idea for the poisoned arrows with which we fitted the warriors of the em pire , she continued . 
And , too , it gave me an idea . 
For a long time I have carried a viper's fang in my bosom . 
It has given me strength to endure many dan gers , for it has always assured me immunity from the ultimate insult . 
I am not ready to die yet . 
First let Hooja embrace the viper's fang . 
So we did not die together , and I am glad now that we did not . 
So , for my part , I shall always wait for tomorrow . 
In Pellucidar , where it is always today , the wait may not be so long , and so it proved for us . 
As we were passing a lofty , flat topped hill through a park like wood a perfect network of fiber ropes fell suddenly about our guard , enmeshing them . 
A moment later a horde of our friends , the hairy gorilla men , with the mild eyes and long faces of sheep leaped among them . 
It was a very interesting fight . 
When the battle was over we found that a few of our captors had escaped , but the majority of them lay dead about us . 
The gorilla men paid no further attention to them . 
Gr gr gr turned to me . 
Gr gr gr and all his people are your friends , he said . 
One saw the warriors of the Sly One and fol lowed them . 
He saw them capture you , and then he flew to the village as fast as he could go and told me all that he had seen . 
You did much for Gr gr gr and Gr gr gr's people . 
We shall always do much for you . 
I thanked him and when I had told him of our escape and our destination , he insisted on accom panying us to the sea with a great number of his fierce males . 
Nor were we at all loath to accept his escort . 
We found the canoe where I had hidden it , and bidding Gr gr gr and his warriors farewell , the three of us embarked for the mainland . 
We landed several miles north of Thuria in a little cove that seemed to offer protection from the heavier seas which sometimes run , even upon these usually pacific oceans of Pellucidar . 
Here I outlined to Dian and Juag the plans I had in mind . 
Then they were to hunt for food which we could transport with us , and prepare a receptacle for water . 
These two latter items were more in Juag's line , but he kept muttering about the sail and the wind for a long time . 
I could see that he was not even half convinced that any such ridiculous contraption could make a canoe move through the water . 
We hunted near the coast for a while , but were pot rewarded with any particular luck . 
Finally we decided to hide the canoe and strike inland in search of game . 
Then we set out away from the sea . 
The farther inland we went the darker it became , until we were moving at last through an endless twi light . 
The vegetation here was sparse and of a weird , colorless nature , though what did grow was wondrous in shape and form . 
What we sought was either a thag a sort of gigantic elk or one of the larger species of antelope , the flesh of either of which dries nicely in the sun . 
The bladder of the thag would make a fine water bottle , and its skin , I figured , would be a good sail . 
We traveled a considerable distance inland , entirely crossing the Land of Awful Shadow and emerging at last upon that portion of the Lidi Plains which lies in the pleasant sunlight . 
Juag suggested that we travel to the northeast , where , he said , upon the verge of the plain we would find a wooded country in which game should be plentiful . 
Acting upon his advice , we came at last to a forest jungle , through which wound innumerable game paths . 
In the depths of this forbidding wood we came upon the fresh spoor of thag . 
Shortly after , by careful stalking , we came within javelin range of a small herd . 
Selecting a great bull , Juag and I hurled our weapons simultaneously , Dian reserving hers for an emergency . 
The beast staggered to his feet , bellowing . 
The rest of the herd was up and away in an instant , only the wounded bull remaining , with lowered head and roving eyes searching for the foe . 
Then Juag exposed himself to the view of the bull it is a part of the tactics of the hunt while I stepped to one side behind a bush . 
The moment that the savage beast saw Juag he charged him . 
Juag ran straight away , that the bull might be lured past my hiding place . 
On he came tons of mighty bestial strength and rage . 
Dian had slipped behind me . 
She , too , could fight a thag should emergency require . 
When he was opposite me I sprang for the heavy mane that covered his huge neck . 
To tangle my fingers in it was the work of but an instant . 
Then I was running along at the beast's shoulder . 
Once in the gait of the plunging bull , it was but a slight matter to vault to his back , as cavalrymen mount their chargers upon the run . 
Juag was still run ning in plain sight ahead of the bull . 
His speed was but a trifle less than that of the monster that pursued him . 
These Pellucidarians are almost as fleet as deer because I am not is one reason that I am always chosen for the close in work of the thag hunt . 
I could not keep in front of a charging thag long enough to give the killer time to do his work . 
I learned that the first and last time I tried it . 
Once astride the bull's neck , I drew my long stone knife and , setting the point carefully over the brute's spine , drove it home with both hands . 
At the same in stant I leaped clear of the stumbling animal . 
Now , no vertebrate can progress far with a knife through his spine , and the thag is no exception to the rule . 
The fellow was down instantly . 
As he wallowed Juag returned , and the two of us leaped in when an opening afforded the opportunity and snatched our javelins from his side . 
The thag had covered considerable ground from the point at which I had leaped upon him . 
When , after despatching him , I looked back for Dian , I could see nothing of her . 
I called aloud , but receiving no reply , set out at a brisk trot to where I had left her . 
I had no difficulty in finding the self same bush behind which we had hidden , but Dian was not there . 
Again and again I called , to be rewarded only by silence . 
Filled with consternation and dismay , I followed these latter to where they suddenly disappeared a hundred yards from where the struggle had occurred . 
There I saw the huge imprints of a lidi's feet . 
The story of the tragedy was all too plain . 
A Thurian had either been following us , or had accidentally espied Dian and taken a fancy to her . 
While Juag and I had been engaged with the thag , he had abducted her . 
I ran swiftly back to where Juag was working over the kill . 
When I had come nearer I saw the cause of his belligerent attitude . 
Just beyond him stood two large jaloks , or wolf dogs , regarding him intently a male and a female . 
Their behavior was rather peculiar , for they did not seem preparing to charge him . 
Rather , they were contemplating him in an attitude of question ing . 
Juag heard me coming and turned toward me with a grin . 
I could see by his expression that he was enjoying in anticipation the battle that seemed imminent . 
But he never hurled his javelin . 
A shout of warning from me stopped him , for I had seen the remnants of a rope dangling from the neck of the male jalok . 
Juag again turned toward me , but this time in sur prise . 
I was abreast him in a moment and , passing him , walked straight toward the two beasts . 
As I did so the female crouched with bared fangs . 
The male , however , leaped forward to meet me , not in deadly charge , but with every expression of delight and joy which the poor animal could exhibit . 
It was Raja the jalok whose life I had saved , and whom I then had tamed ! There was no doubt that he was glad to see me . 
I now think that his seeming desertion of me had been but due to a desire to search out his ferocious mate and bring her , too , to live with me . 
I was glad to see the brute , and I lost no time in taking him to Juag and making him understand that Juag , too , was to be Raja's friend . 
With the female the matter was more difficult , but Raja helped us out by growling savagely at her whenever she bared her fangs against us . 
I told Juag of the disappearance of Dian , and of my suspicions as to the explanation of the catastrophe . 
And so it was arranged that he was to do this and await me there for a reasonable time . 
Then , calling Raja after me , I set out after Dian and her abductor . 
First I took the wolf dog to the spot where the man had fought with Dian . 
A few paces behind us followed Raja's fierce mate . 
I pointed to the ground where the evidences of the struggle were plainest and where the scent must have been strong to Raja's nostrils . 
Then I grasped the remnant of leash that hung about his neck and urged him forward upon the trail . 
With nose to ground he set out upon his task . 
Dragging me after him , he trotted straight out upon the Lidi Plains , turning his steps in the direc tion of the Thurian village . 
I could have guessed as much ! Behind us trailed the female . 
After a while she closed upon us , until she ran quite close to me and at Raja's side . 
It was not long before she seemed as easy in my company as did her lord and master . 
Upon its back were two human figures . 
However , the matter was taken out of my hands presently when Raja raised his head and caught sight of his quarry . 
With a lunge that hurled me flat and jerked the leash from my hand , he was gone with the speed of the wind after the giant lidi and its riders . 
At his side raced his shaggy mate , only a trifle smaller than he and no whit less savage . 
They did not give tongue until the lidi itself dis covered them and broke into a lumbering , awkward , but none the less rapid gallop . 
Then the two hound beasts commenced to bay , starting with a low , plaintive note that rose , weird and hideous , to terminate in a series of short , sharp yelps . 
This was accounted for by the fact that Raja ran upon his left side , and unlike his mate , kept leaping for the great beast's shoul der . 
The man on the lidi's back was prodding at the hyaenodon with his long spear , but still Raja kept springing up and snapping . 
This was precisely what Raja and his mate were doing they were turning the lidi back toward me , or at least Raja was . 
At any rate , I was sufficiently convinced to stop where I was and await developments , for I could readily realize two things . 
One was that I could never overhaul them before the damage was done if they should pull the lidi down now . 
The other thing was that if they did not pull it down for a few minutes it would have completed its circle and returned close to where I stood . 
And this is just what happened . 
The lot of them were almost , swallowed up in the twilight for a mo ment . 
Then they reappeared again , but this time far to the right and circling back in my general direction . 
Then I saw the female leap forward and head him and when he would have gone too far to the left , Raja sprang , snapping at his shoulder and held him straight . 
Straight for me the two savage beasts were driving their quarry ! It was wonderful . 
It was something else , too , as I realized while the monstrous beast neared me . 
It was like standing in the middle of the tracks in front of an approaching express train . 
But I didn't dare waver too much de pended upon my meeting that hurtling mass of terrified flesh with a well placed javelin . 
So I stood there , wait ing to be run down and crushed by those gigantic feet , but determined to drive home my weapon in the broad breast before I fell . 
The lidi was only about a hundred yards from me when Raja gave a few barks in a tone that differed materially from his hunting cry . 
Instantly both he and his mate leaped for the long neck of the ruminant . 
At the same time I was running swiftly toward them . 
When the man discovered me he released his hold upon Dian and sprang to the ground , ready with his lance to meet me . 
My javelin was no match for his longer weapon , which was used more for stabbing than as a missile . 
The outlook was scarcely entrancing . 
Evidently I was soon to be absolutely at his mercy . 
Seeing my predicament , he ran toward me to get rid of one antagonist before he had to deal with the other two . 
But as the Thurian came Raja loosened his hold upon the lidi and dashed for him , with the female close after . 
When the man saw them he yelled to me to help him , protesting that we should both be killed if we did not fight together . 
But I only laughed at him and ran toward Dian . 
Both the fierce beasts were upon the Thurian simul taneously he must have died almost before his body tumbled to the ground . 
Then the female wheeled to ward Dian . 
I was standing by her side as the thing charged her , my javelin ready to receive her . 
But again Raja was too quick for me . 
I imagined he thought she was making for me , for he couldn't have known anything of my relations toward Dian . 
At any rate he leaped full upon her back and dragged her down . 
There ensued forthwith as terrible a battle as one would wish to see if battles were gaged by volume of noise and riotousness of action . 
I thought that both the beasts would be torn to shreds . 
When finally the female ceased to struggle and rolled over on her back , her forepaws limply folded , I was sure that she was dead . 
Raja stood over her , growling , his jaws close to her throat . 
Then I saw that neither of them bore a scratch . 
The male had simply admin istered a severe drubbing to his mate . 
It was his way of teaching her that I was sacred . 
After a moment he moved away and let her rise , when she set about smoothing down her rumpled coat , while he came stalking toward Dian and me . 
I had an arm about Dian now . 
As Raja came close I caught him by the neck and pulled him up to me . 
There I stroked him and talked to him , bidding Dian do the same , until I think he pretty well understood that if I was his friend , so was Dian . 
But by careful kindness , by never eating without sharing our meat with them , and by feeding them from our hands , we finally won the confidence of both animals . 
However , that was a long time after . 
With the two beasts trotting after us , we returned to where we had left Juag . 
Here I had the dickens' own time keeping the female from Juag's throat . 
Of all the venomous , wicked , cruel hearted beasts on two worlds , I think a female hyaenodon takes the palm . 
We ate some of the meat before starting , and gave the hounds some . 
All that we could we car ried upon our backs . 
On the way to the canoe we met with no mishaps . 
By the time the thag had ceased bellowing the fellow had got well away upon his swift mount . 
By holding one palm over her mouth he had prevented her calling for help . 
I thought , she concluded , that I should have to use the viper's tooth , after all . 
We reached the beach at last and unearthed the canoe . 
At last all was done . 
We were ready to embark . 
In fact , we had to shove off without her . 
After a moment , however , she plunged into the water and swam after us . 
The islander was much interested and impressed by the sail and its results . 
We made splendid headway on the trip , coming into sight of land at last . 
Juag had been terror stricken when he had learned that I intended crossing the ocean , and when we passed out of sight of land be was in a blue funk . 
Indeed , our eyes may have been the first ever to rest upon them . 
I should have liked to stop off and explore them , but the business of empire would brook no unnecessary delays . 
For some time we sailed up the coast searching for the river , and at last we found it . 
I was all excitement to commence our upward jour ney when there occurred that which I had never before seen within Pellucidar a really terrific wind storm . 
The best that we could do was to hold the scud ding craft before the wind and race along in a smother of white spume . 
The former crawled close to my side and buried his nose against me . 
Finally even fierce Ranee was moved to seek sympathy from a human being . 
She slunk to Dian , pressing close against her and whimpering , while Dian stroked her shaggy neck and talked to her as I talked to Raja . 
There was nothing for us to do but try to keep the canoe right side up and straight before the wind . 
For what seemed an eternity the tempest neither increased nor abated . 
I asked Juag then what our course was , for he had had the compass last . 
It had been on a leather thong about his neck . 
The compass , since he had learned its uses from me , had been all that he had to buoy his hope of eventual salvation from the watery deep . 
He had seen how it had guided me across the water to the very coast that I desired to reach , and so he had implicit confidence in it . 
Now that it was gone , his confidence had departed , also . 
There seemed but one thing to do that was to keep on sailing straight before the wind since we could travel most rapidly along that course until we sighted land of some description . 
If it chanced to be the mainland , well and good if an island well , we might live upon an island . 
We certainly could not live long in this little boat , with only a few strips of dried thag and a few quarts of water left . 
Quite suddenly a thought occurred to me . 
I was surprised that it had not come before as a solution to our problem . 
Now all we have to do is let Dian guide us toward Amoz , and we shall come in a short time to the same coast whence we just were blown . 
As I spoke I looked at them with a smile of re newed hope but there was no answering smile in their eyes . 
It was Dian who enlightened me . 
We could do all this upon land , she said . 
But upon the water that power is denied us . 
I do not know why but I have always heard that this is true that only upon the water may a Pellucidarian be lost . 
This is , I think , why we all fear the great ocean so even those who go upon its surface in canoes . 
Juag has told us that they never go beyond the sight of land . 
We had lowered the sail after the blow while we were discussing the best course to pursue . 
Our little craft had been drifting idly , rising and falling with the great waves that were now diminishing . 
Sometimes we were upon the crest again in the hollow . 
As Dian ceased speaking she let her eyes range across the limitless expanse of billowing waters . 
We rose to a great height upon the crest of a mighty wave . 
As we topped it Dian gave an exclamation and pointed astern . 
We waited for the next wave to lift us , and when it did we strained our eyes in the direction that Dian had indicated . 
And in them must be human beings like ourselves . 
CHAPTER XIII RACING FOR LIFE At last the sea subsided , and we were able to get a better view of the armada of small boats in our wake . 
There must have been two hundred of them . 
Juag said that he had never seen so many boats before in all his life . 
Where had they come from ? Juag was first to hazard a guess . 
Hooja , he said , was building many boats to carry his warriors to the great river and up it toward Sari . 
He was building them with almost all his warriors and many slaves upon the Island of Trees . 
No one else in all the history of Pellucidar has ever built so many boats as they told me Hooja was building . 
These must be Hooja's boats . 
And they were blown out to sea by the great storm just as we were , suggested Dian . 
There can be no better explanation of them , I agreed . 
What shall we do ? asked Juag . 
Suppose we make sure that they are really Hooja's people , suggested Dian . 
They may be a people of whom we have never even heard , and if so we can ask them to help us if they know the way to the mainland . 
Which they will not , interposed Juag . 
Well , I said , it can't make our predicament any more trying to wait until we find out who they are . 
They are heading for us now . 
Evidently they have spied our sail , and guess that we do not belong to their fleet . 
They probably want to ask the way to the mainland themselves , said Juag , who was nothing if not a pes simist . 
If they want to catch us , they can do it if they can paddle faster than we can sail , I said . 
The sea calmed rapidly , so that by the time the foremost canoe had come within five hundred yards of us we could see them all plainly . 
Every one was headed for us . 
The dugouts , which were of unusual length , were manned by twenty paddlers , ten to a side . 
Besides the paddlers there were twenty five or more warriors in each boat . 
When the leader was a hundred yards from us Dian called our attention to the fact that several of her crew were Sagoths . 
That convinced us that the flotilla was indeed Hooja's . 
I told Juag to hail them and get what information he could , while I remained in the bottom of our canoe as much out of sight as possible . 
Dian lay down at full length in the bottom I did not want them to see and recognize her if they were in truth Hooja's people . 
Who are you ? shouted Juag , standing up in the boat and making a megaphone of his palms . 
A figure arose in the bow of the leading canoe a figure that I was sure I recognized even before he spoke . 
I am Hooja ! cried the man , in answer to Juag . 
For some reason he did not recognize his former prisoner and slave possibly because he had so many of them . 
I come from the Island of Trees , he continued . 
A hundred of my boats were lost in the great storm and all their crews drowned . 
We , too , are lost , replied Juag . 
We know not where the land is . 
We are going back to look for it now . 
So saying he commenced to scull the canoe's nose before the wind , while I made fast the primitive sheets that held our crude sail . 
We thought it time to be going . 
There wasn't much wind at the time , and the heavy , lumbering dugout was slow in getting under way . 
I thought it never would gain any momentum . 
And all the while Hooja's canoe was drawing rapidly nearer , propelled by the strong arms of his twenty paddlers . 
Hooja called to Juag to stop when he saw that our craft was moving . 
He was much interested in the sail , and not a little awed , as I could tell by his shouted remarks and questions . 
Raising my head , I saw him plainly . 
He would have made an excellent target for one of my guns , and I had never been sorrier that I had lost them . 
We were now picking up speed a trifle , and he was not gaining upon us so fast as at first . 
In consequence , his requests that we stop suddenly changed to com mands as he became aware that we were trying to escape him . 
Come back ! he shouted . 
Come back , or I'll fire ! I use the word fire because it more nearly translates into English the Pellucidarian word trag , which covers the launching of any deadly missile . 
But Juag only seized his paddle more tightly the paddle that answered the purpose of rudder , and com menced to assist the wind by vigorous strokes . 
Then Hooja gave the command to some of his archers to fire upon us . 
Dian joined me , though I did my best to persuade her to remain sheltered but being a woman , she must have her own way . 
The instant that Hooja saw us he recognized us . 
The whoop of triumph he raised indicated how certain he was that we were about to fall into his hands . 
A shower of arrows fell about us . 
Then Hooja caused his men to cease firing he wanted us alive . 
None of the mis siles struck us , for Hooja's archers were not nearly the marksmen that are my Sarians and Amozites . 
We had now gained sufficient headway to hold our own on about even terms with Hooja's paddlers . 
We did not seem to be gaining , though and neither did they . 
Not once yet had we sighted land , nor could I understand it , since so many of the seas I had seen before were thickly dotted with islands . 
Our plight was anything but pleasant , yet I think that Hooja and his forces were even worse off than we , for they had no food nor water at all . 
Far out behind us in a long line that curved upward in the distance , to be lost in the haze , strung Hooja's two hundred boats . 
But one would have been enough to have taken us could it have come alongside . 
We had drawn some fifty yards ahead of Hooja there had been times when we were scarce ten yards in advance and were feeling considerably safer from capture . 
Hooja must have commenced to realize that he was going to lose us , for he again gave orders that we be fired upon . 
Volley after volley of arrows struck about us . 
However , it was a most exciting ordeal . 
Hooja stood in the bow of his boat , alternately urging his men to greater speed and shouting epithets at me . 
But we continued to draw away from him . 
At last the wind rose to a fair gale , and we simply raced away from our pursuers as if they were standing still . 
Juag was so tickled that he forgot all about his hunger and thirst . 
We had a strong gale for a considerable time , and eventually dropped Hooja's fleet so far astern that we could no longer discern them . 
It was still a long way off , and we couldn't make out whether it was island or mainland but at least it was land . 
If ever shipwrecked mariners were grateful , we were then . 
We watched them both most closely , however . 
Once while stroking Ranee I managed to get a rope around her neck and make her fast to the side of the boat . 
Then I felt a bit safer for Dian . 
We made good time to within a few miles of the shore . 
Then the wind died suddenly out . 
We were all of us keyed up to such a pitch of anticipation that the blow was doubly hard to bear . 
And it was a blow , too , since we could not tell in what quarter the wind might rise again but Juag and I set to work to paddle the remaining distance . 
Almost immediately the wind rose again from pre cisely the opposite direction from which it had formerly blown , so that it was mighty hard work making progress against it . 
Next it veered again so that we had to turn and run with it parallel to the coast to keep from being swamped in the trough of the seas . 
The gale kept on increasing , but it was fitful , swooping down upon us in great gusts and then going almost calm for an instant . 
It was after one of these momentary calms that the catastrophe occurred . 
Our sail hung limp and our momentum decreased when of a sudden a par ticularly vicious squall caught us . 
Before I could cut the sheets the mast had snapped at the thwart in which it was stepped . 
But Hooja had drawn closer in toward shore than we , so it looked as if he might head us off before we could land . 
However , we did our best to distance him , Dian taking a paddle with us . 
So menac ing was their attitude that we realized at once the folly of attempting to land among them . 
Hooja was drawing closer to us . 
We could not hope to outpaddle him . 
And with our sail gone , no wind would help us , though , as if in derision at our plight , a steady breeze was now blowing . 
It was a grueling experience . 
We were weakened by lack of food . 
We were suffering the pangs of thirst . 
Capture and death were close at hand . 
Yet I think that we gave a good account of ourselves in our final effort to escape . 
Our boat was so much smaller and lighter than any of Hooja's that the three of us forced it ahead almost as rapidly as his larger craft could go under their twenty paddles . 
We were not far from shore in that mad flight from death . 
Even as I paddled I found opportunity to glance occasionally toward the natives . 
They were white , but hideously painted . 
From their gestures and weapons I took them to be a most ferocious race . 
I was rather glad that we had not succeeded in landing among them . 
Hooja's fleet had been in much more compact forma tion when we sighted them this time than on the occasion following the tempest . 
Now they were moving rapidly in pursuit of us , all well within the radius of a mile . 
Five of them were leading , all abreast , and were scarce two hundred yards from us . 
When I glanced over my shoulder I could see that the archers had already fitted arrows to their bows in readiness to fire upon us the moment that they should draw within range . 
Hope was low in my breast . 
It was then that Juag called my attention to the rift in the shore line which I had thought either a bay or the mouth of a great river . 
There I saw moving slowly out into the sea that which filled my soul with wonder . 
CHAPTER XIV GORE AND DREAMS It was a two masted felucca with lateen sails ! The craft was long and low . 
In it were more than fifty men , twenty or thirty of whom were at oars with which the craft was being propelled from the lee of the land . 
One after another , following closely upon one another's heels , came fifty of the trim , graceful vessels . 
I could not make out his words , but presently I saw that he was pointing aloft . 
My eyes went even wider than they had before . 
It was the navy ! It was the navy of the empire of Pellucidar which I had instructed Perry to build in my absence . 
It was MY navy ! I dropped my paddle and stood up and shouted and waved my hand . 
Juag and Dian looked at me as if I had gone suddenly mad . 
When I could stop shouting I told them , and they shared my joy and shouted with me . 
But still Hooja was coming nearer , nor could the leading felucca overhaul him before he would be along side or at least within bow shot . 
His own personal energies he bent to reaching Dian and me first , leaving the rest of the work to his other boats . 
But I was not prepared for what happened next . 
Perry had perfected gunpowder and built cannon ! It was marvelous ! Dian and Juag , as much surprised as Hooja , turned wondering eyes toward me . 
The four dugouts that had been abreast of Hooja had turned to intercept the leading felucca . 
Even now , in the face of what must have been a withering catastrophe to them , they kept bravely on toward the strange and terrible craft . 
In them were fully two hundred men , while but fifty lined the gunwale of the felucca to repel them . 
The commander of the felucca , who proved to be Ja , let them come quite close and then turned loose upon them a volley of shots from small arms . 
The cave men and Sagoths in the dugouts seemed to wither before that blast of death like dry grass before a prairie fire . 
Those who were not hit dropped their bows and javelins and , seizing upon paddles , attempted to escape . 
But the felucca pursued them relentlessly , her crew firing at will . 
At last I heard Ja shouting to the survivors in the dugouts they were all quite close to us now offer ing them their lives if they would surrender . 
Many were the willing hands that reached down to lift us to her decks . 
The bronze faces of the Mezops were broad with smiles , and Perry was fairly beside himself with joy . 
Dian went aboard first and then Juag , as I wished to help Raja and Ranee aboard myself , well knowing that it would fare ill with any Mezop who touched them . 
We got them aboard at last , and a great com motion they caused among the crew , who had never seen a wild beast thus handled by man before . 
From the small forward decks of the feluccas Perry's crude cannon were belching smoke , flame , thunder , and death . 
The air trembled to the roar of them . 
Hooja's horde , intrepid , savage fighters that they were , were closing in to grapple in a last death struggle with the Mezops who manned our vessels . 
The handling of our fleet by the red island warriors of Ja's clan was far from perfect . 
I could see that Perry had lost no time after the completion of the boats in setting out upon this cruise . 
In maneuvering for position they were continually fouling one another , and on two occasions shots from our batteries came near to striking our own ships . 
No sooner , however , was I aboard the flagship than I attempted to rectify this trouble to some extent . 
By passing commands by word of mouth from one ship to another I managed to get the fifty feluccas into some sort of line , with the flag ship in the lead . 
In this formation we commenced slowly to circle the position of the enemy . 
When I had a moment to look about me , I took in the felucca on which I was . 
I am free to confess that I marveled at the excellent construction and stanch yet speedy lines of the little craft . 
But I had soon learned that while one might easily astonish them with some new engine of war , it was an utter impossibility to frighten them into surrender . 
I learned later that Ja had gone carefully over the plans of various craft with Perry . 
The old man had explained in detail all that the text told him of them . 
The two had measured out dimensions upon the ground , that Ja might see the sizes of different boats . 
Perry had built models , and Ja had had him read carefully and explain all that they could find relative to the handling of sailing vessels . 
The result of this was that Ja was the one who had chosen the felucca . 
It was well that Perry had had so excellent a balance wheel , for he had been wild to build a huge frigate of the Nelsonian era he told me so himself . 
One thing that had inclined Ja particularly to the felucca was the fact that it included oars in its equip ment . 
As soon as one hull was completed Ja kept it on the water constantly , first with one crew and then with another , until two thousand red warriors had learned to row . 
Then they stepped their masts and a crew was told off for the first ship . 
While the others were building they learned to handle theirs . 
Well , to get back to the battle The Hoojans kept on coming at us , and as fast as they came we mowed them down . 
It was little else than slaughter . 
Time and time again I cried to them to surrender , promising them their lives if they would do so . 
At last there were but ten boatloads left . 
They thought they could paddle away from us it was pitiful ! I passed the word from boat to boat to cease firing not to kill another Hoojan unless they fired on us . 
Then we set out after them . 
There was a nice little breeze blowing and we bowled along after our quarry as gracefully and as lightly as swans upon a park lagoon . 
As we approached them I could see not only wonder but admiration in their eyes . 
I hailed the nearest dugout . 
Throw down your arms and come aboard us , I cried , and you shall not be harmed . 
We will feed you and return you to the mainland . 
Then you shall go free upon your promise never to bear arms against the Emperor of Pellucidar again ! I think it was the promise of food that interested them most . 
They could scarce believe that we would not kill them . 
None other than my word , I replied . 
That I do not break . 
The Pellucidarians themselves are rather punctilious about this same matter , so the Sagoth could understand that I might possibly be speaking the truth . 
Ja couldn't exactly see the wisdom of my plan , either . 
He thought that we ought to follow up the ten remaining dugouts and sink them all but I insisted that we must free as many as possible of our enemies upon the mainland . 
They are men of two races and of many countries . 
It's the finest chance for free publicity , Perry , I added to the old man , that you or I have seen in many a day . 
As a matter of fact , he would have agreed to anything that would have restrained us from killing the poor devils who fell into our hands . 
He was a great fellow to invent gunpowder and fire arms and cannon but when it came to using these things to kill people , he was as tender hearted as a chicken . 
The Sagoth who had spoken was talking to other Sagoths in his boat . 
Evidently they were holding a council over the question of the wisdom of surrender ing . 
What will become of you if you don't surrender to us ? I asked . 
If we do not open up our batteries on you again and kill you all , you will simply drift about the sea helplessly until you die of thirst and starvation . 
You cannot return to the islands , for you have seen as well as we that the natives there are very numerous and warlike . 
They would kill you the moment you landed . 
The upshot of it was that the boat of which the Sagoth speaker was in charge surrendered . 
The Sagoths threw down their weapons , and we took them aboard the ship next in line behind the Amoz . 
First Ja had to impress upon the captain and crew of the ship that the prisoners were not to be abused or killed . 
After that the remaining dugouts paddled up and sur rendered . 
We distributed them among the entire fleet lest there be too many upon any one vessel . 
It was a great occasion . 
When it came to kissing Dian's I think they enjoyed it more I know I should have . 
A happy thought occurred to me as I stood upon the little deck of the Amoz with the first of Perry's primi tive cannon behind me . 
Striking him lightly on the shoulder I created him king of Anoroc . 
Each captain of the forty nine other feluccas I made a duke . 
I left it to Perry to enlighten them as to the value of the honors I had bestowed upon them . 
During these ceremonies Raja and Ranee had stood beside Dian and me . 
Their bellies had been well filled , but still they had difficulty in permitting so much edible humanity to pass unchallenged . 
It was a good education for them though , and never after did they find it difficult to associate with the human race with out arousing their appetites . 
After the ceremonies were over we had a chance to talk with Perry and Ja . 
Their destination had been the island retreat of Hooja , and they had sent word to Ghak of their plans that we might work in harmony with them . 
The tempest that had blown us off the coast of the continent had blown them far to the south also . 
I asked Perry if he had any idea as to where we were , or in what direction lay Hooja's island or the continent . 
He then explained that with compass , chronometer , log and reel , they had kept a fairly accurate record of their course from the time they had set out . 
Four of the feluccas were equipped with these instruments , and all of the captains had been instructed in their use . 
Well , how long were you gone from Anoroc before we picked you up in the Sojar Az ? That was a puzzler , and I had to admit it . 
I didn't know how much time had elapsed and neither did Perry , for time is nonexistent in Pellucidar . 
Then , you see , David , he continued , I had almost unbelievable resources at my disposal . 
Men , women , and children turned to and worked the moment Ja ex plained the nature of our enterprise . 
And then , continued the old man , the element of time , or , rather , lack of time , operated to my advantage . 
There being no nights , there was no laying off from work they labored incessantly stopping only to eat and , on rare occasions , to sleep . 
Once we had discovered iron ore we had enough mined in an incredibly short time to build a thousand cannon . 
I had only to show them once how a thing should be done , and they would fall to work by thousands to do it . 
Why , no sooner had we fashioned the first muzzle loader and they had seen it work successfully , than fully three thousand Mezops fell to work to make rifles . 
Of course there was much confusion and lost motion at first , but eventually Ja got them in hand , detailing squads of them under competent chiefs to certain work . 
We now have a hundred expert gun makers . 
On a little isolated isle we have a great powder factory . 
Near the iron mine , which is on the mainland , is a smelter , and on the eastern shore of Anoroc , a well equipped ship yard . 
All these industries are guarded by forts in which several cannon are mounted and where warriors are always on guard . 
You would be surprised now , David , at the aspect of Anoroc . 
It is a miracle , I said it is nothing short of a miracle to transplant all the wondrous possibilities of the twen tieth century back to the Stone Age . 
It is a miracle to think that only five hundred miles of earth separate two epochs that are really ages and ages apart . 
It is stupendous , Perry ! But still more stupendous is the power that you and I wield in this great world . 
These people look upon us as little less than supermen . 
We must show them that we are all of that . 
We must give them the best that we have , Perry . 
Yes , he agreed we must . 
I have been thinking a great deal lately that some kind of shrapnel shell or ex plosive bomb would be a most splendid innovation in their warfare . 
I didn't mean these sorts of things at all . 
I said that we must give them the best we have . 
What we have given them so far has been the worst . 
We have given them war and the munitions of war . 
In a single day we have made their wars infinitely more terrible and bloody than in all their past ages they have been able to make them with their crude , primitive weapons . 
In a period that could scarcely have exceeded two outer earthly hours , our fleet practically annihilated the largest armada of native canoes that the Pellucidarians ever before had gathered together . 
We butchered some eight thousand warriors with the twentieth century gifts we brought . 
The old man looked at me in amazement . 
There was reproach in his eyes , too . 
Why , David ! he said sorrowfully . 
I thought that you would be pleased with what I had done . 
We planned these things together , and I am sure that it was you who suggested practically all of it . 
I have done only what I thought you wished done and I have done it the best that I know how . 
I laid my hand on the old man's shoulder . 
Bless your heart , Perry ! I cried . 
You have done precisely what I should have done , only you've done it better . 
I'm not finding fault but I don't wish to lose sight myself , or let you lose sight , of the greater work which must grow out of this preliminary and necessary carnage . 
And Dian , who was standing at my side , pressed my hand . 
CHAPTER XV CONQUEST AND PEACE The fleet sailed directly for Hooja's island , coming to anchor at its north eastern extremity before the flat topped hill that had been Hooja's stronghold . 
In reply I had five of the feluccas cannonade them . 
Here we met a little resistance but a volley from the muzzle loaders turned back those who disputed our right of way , and presently we gained the mesa . 
Here again we met resistance , but at last the remnant of Hooja's horde surrendered . 
I created a kingdom of the island , making Juag king there . 
Before we sailed I went to Gr gr gr , chief of the beast men , taking Juag with me . 
There the three of us arranged a code of laws that would permit the brute folk and the human beings of the island to live in peace and harmony . 
Gr gr gr sent his son with me back to Sari , capital of my empire , that he might learn the ways of the human beings . 
I have hopes of turning this race into the greatest agriculturists of Pellucidar . 
I lost no time in weighing anchors and setting out for the continent , which we reached after a short and easy voyage . 
From the deck of the Amoz I scanned the shore through the glasses that Perry had brought with him . 
As we approached smaller objects became distinguishable . 
It was then that I discovered numerous flags and pennants floating above the army of the besiegers . 
I called Perry and passed the glasses to him . 
Ghak of Sari , I said . 
Perry looked through the lenses of a moment , and then turned to me with a smile . 
The red , white , and blue of the empire , he said . 
It is indeed your majesty's army . 
It soon became apparent that we had been sighted by those on shore , for a great multitude of warriors had congregated along the beach watching us . 
We came to anchor as close in as we dared , which with our light feluccas was within easy speaking distance of the shore . 
To give the proper effect to our meeting I com manded that each felucca fire twenty one guns as a salute to His Majesty Ghak , King of Sari . 
After this we landed an arduous task since each felucca carried but a single light dugout . 
Here he apologized for the treatment he had accorded me , very gladly swore allegiance to the empire , and received in return the title of king . 
We found the river easily , and sailed up it for many miles through as rich and wonderful a plain as I have ever seen . 
At the head of navigation we disembarked , leaving a sufficient guard for the feluccas , and marched the remaining distance to Sari . 
With them were the thousand lidi from Thuria . 
I laid out a plan of campaign which met with the enthusiastic indorse ment of the kings . 
Pursuant to it , I at once despatched fifty lidi to the fleet with orders to fetch fifty cannon to Sari . 
At last the great army started upon its march . 
There were warriors from every one of the federated kingdoms . 
I divided the forces into divisions , regiments , battalions , companies , and even to platoons and sections , appointing the full complement of officers and noncommissioned officers . 
On the long march I schooled them in their duties , and as fast as one learned I sent him among the others as a teacher . 
There was also one full regi ment of Mezop musketeers and a regiment of primitive spearmen . 
At a thousand yards we halted , and , placing our artillery upon a slight eminence at either flank , we com menced to drop solid shot among them . 
The Sagoths couldn't stand much of this sort of warfare , so they charged us , yelling like fiends . 
We let them come quite close , and then the musketeers who formed the first line opened up on them . 
The slaughter was something frightful , but still the remnants of them kept on coming until it was a matter of hand to hand fighting . 
Here our spearmen were of value , as were also the crude iron swords with which most of the imperial warriors were armed . 
We lost heavily in the encounter after the Sagoths reached us but they were absolutely exterminated not one remained even as a prisoner . 
The Mahars , seeing how the battle was going , had hastened to the safety of their buried city . 
When we had overcome their gorilla men we followed after them . 
We lost a number of men here . 
Under my direction he stuffed one of his cannon full of powder , small bullets , and pieces of stone , almost to the muzzle . 
Then he plugged the muzzle tight with a cone shaped block of wood , hammered and jammed in as tight as it could be . 
Next he inserted a long fuse . 
A dozen men rolled the cannon to the top of the stairs leading down into the city , first removing it from its carriage . 
One of them then lit the fuse and the whole thing was given a shove down the stairway , while the detachment turned and scampered to a safe distance . 
For what seemed a very long time nothing happened . 
Perry had been working on two more of these giant bombs as soon as the first was completed . 
Presently we launched these into two of the other entrances . 
A hundred men on lidi were despatched in pursuit , each lidi carrying two riflemen in addition to its driver . 
Guessing that the inland sea , which lay not far north of Phutra , was their destination , I took a couple of regiments and followed . 
A low ridge intervenes between the Phutra plain where the city lies , and the inland sea where the Ma hars were wont to disport themselves in the cool waters . 
Not until we had topped this ridge did we get a view of the sea . 
Then we beheld a scene that I shall never forget so long as I may live . 
My heart leaped when I discovered that which was chaining the attention of them all . 
The commander of the fleet permitted them to approach within a hundred yards . 
Then he opened on them with all the cannon that could be brought to bear , as well as with the small arms of the sailors . 
A great many of the reptiles were killed at the first volley . 
They wavered for a moment , then dived nor did we see them again for a long time . 
But finally they rose far out beyond the fleet , and when the feluccas came about and pursued them they left the water and flew away toward the north . 
Following the fall of Phutra I visited Anoroc , where I found the people busy in the shipyards and the factories that Perry had established . 
I discovered something , too , that he had not told me of something that seemed infinitely more promising than the powder factory or the arsenal . 
So absorbed was he that he did not notice our entrance . 
Perry saw the look of as tonishment in my eyes and smiled . 
I started teaching him the alphabet when we first reached the prospector , and were taking out its con tents , be explained . 
He was much mystified by the books and anxious to know of what use they were . 
When I explained he asked me to teach him to read , and so I worked with him whenever I could . 
He is very in telligent and learns quickly . 
Before I left he had made great progress , and as soon as he is qualified he is going to teach others to read . 
It was mighty hard work getting started , though , for everything had to be translated into Pellucidarian . 
Now we have But I'll get to all that before I finish . 
They were now glad enough to make friends with him and come into the federation . 
From there we sailed with sixty five feluccas for distant Luana , the main island of the group where dwell the hereditary enemies of Anoroc . 
They were longer , carried much larger sails , and were considerably swifter . 
Each carried four guns instead of two , and these were so arranged that one or more of them could be brought into action no matter where the enemy lay . 
The Luana group lies just beyond the range of vision from the mainland . 
The largest island of it alone is visible from Anoroc but when we neared it we found that it comprised many beautiful islands , and that they were thickly populated . 
The Luanians had not , of course , been ignorant of all that had been going on in the domains of their nearest and dearest enemies . 
They knew of our feluccas and our guns , for several of their riding parties had had a taste of both . 
But their principal chief , an old man , had never seen either . 
It was pitiful , and I told Ja as much . 
It seemed a shame to massacre these poor fellows if there was any way out of it . 
To my surprise Ja felt much as I did . 
He said he had always hated to war with other Mezops when there were so many alien races to fight against . 
So we opened up on them , but at my suggestion centered our fire upon the chief's canoe . 
We saved some of them , but the majority died just as had Hooja and the crew of his canoe that time our second shot capsized them . 
Again we called to the remaining warriors to enter into a parley with us but the chief's son was there and he would not , now that he had seen his father killed . 
He was all for revenge . 
Presently , an old warrior who commanded one of the dugouts sur rendered . 
After that they came in one by one until all had laid their weapons upon our decks . 
Then we called together upon the flag ship all our captains , to give the affair greater weight and dignity , and all the principal men of Luana . 
We had conquered them , and they expected either death or slavery but they deserved neither , and I told them so . 
When I sailed away from Luana she was included among the kingdoms of the empire , whose boundaries were thus pushed eastward several hundred miles . 
At each city we were vic torious , killing or capturing the Sagoths and driving the Mahars further away . 
I noticed that they always fled toward the north . 
Thus we proceeded , swinging in a great half circle north and west and south again until we had come back to the edge of the Lidi Plains north of Thuria . 
Here we overcame the Mahar city that had ravaged the Land of Awful Shadow for so many ages . 
When we marched on to Thuria , Goork and his people went mad with joy at the tidings we brought them . 
That they had flown north but temporarily until we should be gone with our great army and terrifying guns I was positive , and equally sure was I that they would presently return . 
After leaving Thuria we returned to Sari , where the seat of government is located . 
Here , upon a vast , fertile plateau , overlooking the great gulf that runs into the continent from the Lural Az , we are building the great city of Sari . 
Here we are erecting mills and factories . 
Here we are teaching men and women the rudiments of agriculture . 
Here Perry has built the first printing press , and a dozen young Sarians are teaching their fellows to read and write the language of Pellucidar . 
We have just laws and only a few of them . 
Our people are happy because they are always working at some thing which they enjoy . 
There is no money , nor is any money value placed upon any commodity . 
Perry and I were as one in resolving that the root of all evil should not be introduced into Pellucidar while we lived . 
A man may exchange that which he produces for something which he desires that another has produced but he cannot dispose of the thing he thus acquires . 
In other words , a commodity ceases to have pecuniary value the instant that it passes out of the hands of its producer . 
Already Anoroc and Luana are vying with one another in the excellence of the ships they build . 
Each has several large ship yards . 
Anoroc makes gunpowder and mines iron ore , and by means of their ships they carry on a very lucrative trade with Thuria , Sari , and Amoz . 
The Thurians breed lidi , which , having the strength and intelligence of an elephant , make excellent draft animals . 
Around Sari and Amoz the men are domesticating the great striped antelope , the meat of which is most de licious . 
I am sure that it will not be long before they will have them broken to harness and saddle . 
The horses of Pellucidar are far too diminutive for such uses , some species of them being little larger than fox terriers . 
Dian and I live in a great palace overlooking the gulf . 
Perry and I decided to set a style in architecture that would not curse future generations with the white plague , so we have plenty of ventilation . 
Those of the people who prefer , still inhabit their caves , but many are building houses similar to ours . 
At Greenwich we have located a town and an ob servatory though there is nothing to observe but the stationary sun directly overhead . 
Upon the edge of the Land of Awful Shadow is another observatory , from which the time is flashed by wireless to every corner of the empire twenty four times a day . 
In addition to the wireless , we have a small telephone system in Sari . 
Perry is away just now , laying out a railway line from Sari to Amoz . 
There are immense anthracite coal fields at the head of the gulf not far from Sari , and the railway will tap these . 
Some of his students are working on a locomotive now . 
We are very happy , Dian and I , and I would not return to the outer world for all the riches of all its princes . 
