This was the page at which the favorite volume always opened ELLIOT OF KELLYNCH HALL . 
Walter Elliot , born March , , married , July , , Elizabeth , daughter of James Stevenson , Esq . 
he has issue Elizabeth , born June , Anne , born August , a still born son , November , Mary , born November , . 
of Uppercross , in the county of Somerset , and by inserting most accurately the day of the month on which he had lost his wife . 
, great grandson of the second Sir Walter . 
Vanity was the beginning and the end of Sir Walter Elliot's character vanity of person and of situation . 
He had been remarkably handsome in his youth and , at fifty four , was still a very fine man . 
Few women could think more of their personal appearance than he did , nor could the valet of any new made lord be more delighted with the place he held in society . 
His good looks and his rank had one fair claim on his attachment since to them he must have owed a wife of very superior character to any thing deserved by his own . 
This friend , and Sir Walter , did not marry , whatever might have been anticipated on that head by their acquaintance . 
Thirteen years had passed away since Lady Elliot's death , and they were still near neighbours and intimate friends , and one remained a widower , the other a widow . 
, prided himself on remaining single for his dear daughters' sake . 
For one daughter , his eldest , he would really have given up any thing , which he had not been very much tempted to do . 
His two other children were of very inferior value . 
To Lady Russell , indeed , she was a most dear and highly valued god daughter , favourite , and friend . 
Lady Russell loved them all but it was only in Anne that she could fancy the mother to revive again . 
, there could be nothing in them , now that she was faded and thin , to excite his esteem . 
He had never indulged much hope , he had now none , of ever reading her name in any other page of his favourite work . 
Anne haggard , Mary coarse , every face in the neighbourhood worsting , and the rapid increase of the crow's foot about Lady Russell's temples had long been a distress to him . 
Elizabeth did not quite equal her father in personal contentment . 
Thirteen years had seen her mistress of Kellynch Hall , presiding and directing with a self possession and decision which could never have given the idea of her being younger than she was . 
Then might she again take up the book of books with as much enjoyment as in her early youth , but now she liked it not . 
She had had a disappointment , moreover , which that book , and especially the history of her own family , must ever present the remembrance of . 
The heir presumptive , the very William Walter Elliot , Esq . 
, whose rights had been so generously supported by her father , had disappointed her . 
He was at that time a very young man , just engaged in the study of the law and Elizabeth found him extremely agreeable , and every plan in his favour was confirmed . 
He was invited to Kellynch Hall he was talked of and expected all the rest of the year but he never came . 
Instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house of Elliot , he had purchased independence by uniting himself to a rich woman of inferior birth . 
Sir Walter has resented it . 
His disapprobation was expressed , but apparently very little regarded . 
There was not a baronet from A to Z whom her feelings could have so willingly acknowledged as an equal . 
wearing black ribbons for his wife , she could not admit him to be worth thinking of again . 
This could not be pardoned . 
But now , another occupation and solicitude of mind was beginning to be added to these . 
Her father was growing distressed for money . 
The Kellynch property was good , but not equal to Sir Walter's apprehension of the state required in its possessor . 
Elizabeth had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy . 
There was only a small part of his estate that Sir Walter could dispose of but had every acre been alienable , it would have made no difference . 
He had condescended to mortgage as far as he had the power , but he would never condescend to sell . 
No he would never disgrace his name so far . 
The Kellynch estate should be transmitted whole and entire , as he had received it . 
Lady Russell was most anxiously zealous on the subject , and gave it much serious consideration . 
She was a woman rather of sound than of quick abilities , whose difficulties in coming to any decision in this instance were great , from the opposition of two leading principles . 
They must retrench that did not admit of a doubt . 
But she was very anxious to have it done with the least possible pain to him and Elizabeth . 
She consulted , and in a degree was influenced by her in marking out the scheme of retrenchment which was at last submitted to Sir Walter . 
Every emendation of Anne's had been on the side of honesty against importance . 
She wanted more vigorous measures , a more complete reformation , a quicker release from debt , a much higher tone of indifference for everything but justice and equity . 
If we can persuade your father to all this , said Lady Russell , looking over her paper , much may be done . 
I have great hope of prevailing . 
This was the principle on which Anne wanted her father to be proceeding , his friends to be urging him . 
She wanted it to be prescribed , and felt as a duty . 
How Anne's more rigid requisitions might have been taken is of little consequence . 
Lady Russell's had no success at all could not be put up with , were not to be borne . 
Since the idea had been started in the very quarter which ought to dictate , he had no scruple , he said , in confessing his judgement to be entirely on that side . 
It did not appear to him that Sir Walter could materially alter his style of living in a house which had such a character of hospitality and ancient dignity to support . 
In any other place Sir Walter might judge for himself and would be looked up to , as regulating the modes of life in whatever way he might choose to model his household . 
There had been three alternatives , London , Bath , or another house in the country . 
All Anne's wishes had been for the latter . 
But the usual fate of Anne attended her , in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on . 
She disliked Bath , and did not think it agreed with her and Bath was to be her home . 
It was a much safer place for a gentleman in his predicament he might there be important at comparatively little expense . 
Lady Russell felt obliged to oppose her dear Anne's known wishes . 
It would be too much to expect Sir Walter to descend into a small house in his own neighbourhood . 
Anne herself would have found the mortifications of it more than she foresaw , and to Sir Walter's feelings they must have been dreadful . 
Anne had been too little from home , too little seen . 
Her spirits were not high . 
A larger society would improve them . 
She wanted her to be more known . 
He was not only to quit his home , but to see it in the hands of others a trial of fortitude , which stronger heads than Sir Walter's have found too much . 
Kellynch Hall was to be let . 
This , however , was a profound secret , not to be breathed beyond their own circle . 
Sir Walter could not have borne the degradation of being known to design letting his house . 
Mr Shepherd had once mentioned the word advertise , but never dared approach it again . 
Elizabeth had been lately forming an intimacy , which she wished to see interrupted . 
It was with the daughter of Mr Shepherd , who had returned , after an unprosperous marriage , to her father's house , with the additional burden of two children . 
Lady Russell , indeed , had scarcely any influence with Elizabeth , and seemed to love her , rather because she would love her , than because Elizabeth deserved it . 
She had never received from her more than outward attention , nothing beyond the observances of complaisance had never succeeded in any point which she wanted to carry , against previous inclination . 
This peace will be turning all our rich naval officers ashore . 
They will be all wanting a home . 
Could not be a better time , Sir Walter , for having a choice of tenants , very responsible tenants . 
Many a noble fortune has been made during the war . 
If a rich admiral were to come in our way , Sir Walter He would be a very lucky man , Shepherd , replied Sir Walter that's all I have to remark . 
Everything in and about the house would be taken such excellent care of ! The gardens and shrubberies would be kept in almost as high order as they are now . 
You need not be afraid , Miss Elliot , of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected . 
I am not particularly disposed to favour a tenant . 
I am not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable and I should recommend Miss Elliot to be on her guard with respect to her flower garden . 
I am very little disposed to grant a tenant of Kellynch Hall any extraordinary favour , I assure you , be he sailor or soldier . 
After a short pause , Mr Shepherd presumed to say In all these cases , there are established usages which make everything plain and easy between landlord and tenant . 
Your interest , Sir Walter , is in pretty safe hands . 
Depend upon me for taking care that no tenant has more than his just rights . 
I venture to hint , that Sir Walter Elliot cannot be half so jealous for his own , as John Shepherd will be for him . 
Sailors work hard enough for their comforts , we must all allow . 
Very true , very true . 
Indeed ! was the reply , and with a look of surprise . 
Yes it is in two points offensive to me I have two strong grounds of objection to it . 
I have observed it all my life . 
In the name of heaven , who is that old fellow ? said I to a friend of mine who was standing near , . 
Old fellow ! cried Sir Basil , it is Admiral Baldwin . 
What do you take his age to be ? Sixty , said I , or perhaps sixty two . 
Forty , replied Sir Basil , forty , and no more . 
Picture to yourselves my amazement I shall not easily forget Admiral Baldwin . 
It is a pity they are not knocked on the head at once , before they reach Admiral Baldwin's age . 
Nay , Sir Walter , cried Mrs Clay , this is being severe indeed . 
Have a little mercy on the poor men . 
We are not all born to be handsome . 
The sea is no beautifier , certainly sailors do grow old betimes I have observed it they soon lose the look of youth . 
And who is Admiral Croft ? was Sir Walter's cold suspicious inquiry . 
He was in the Trafalgar action , and has been in the East Indies since he was stationed there , I believe , several years . 
Then I take it for granted , observed Sir Walter , that his face is about as orange as the cuffs and capes of my livery . 
Mr Shepherd was eloquent on the subject pointing out all the circumstances of the Admiral's family , which made him peculiarly desirable as a tenant . 
He was a married man , and without children the very state to be wished for . 
A lady , without a family , was the very best preserver of furniture in the world . 
He had seen Mrs Croft , too she was at Taunton with the admiral , and had been present almost all the time they were talking the matter over . 
Bless me ! what was his name ? At this moment I cannot recollect his name , though I have heard it so lately . 
I have no conception whom you can mean , Shepherd I remember no gentleman resident at Monkford since the time of old Governor Trent . 
Bless me ! how very odd ! I shall forget my own name soon , I suppose . 
Very odd indeed ! After waiting another moment You mean Mr Wentworth , I suppose ? said Anne . 
Mr Shepherd was all gratitude . 
Wentworth was the very name ! Mr Wentworth was the very man . 
He had the curacy of Monkford , you know , Sir Walter , some time back , for two or three years . 
Came there about the year , I take it . 
You remember him , I am sure . 
Wentworth ? Oh ! ay , Mr Wentworth , the curate of Monkford . 
You misled me by the term gentleman . 
I thought you were speaking of some man of property Mr Wentworth was nobody , I remember quite unconnected nothing to do with the Strafford family . 
One wonders how the names of many of our nobility become so common . 
So far went his understanding and his vanity supplied a little additional soothing , in the Admiral's situation in life , which was just high enough , and not too high . 
always needs a note of explanation . 
An admiral speaks his own consequence , and , at the same time , can never make a baronet look small . 
In all their dealings and intercourse , Sir Walter Elliot must ever have the precedence . 
They were gradually acquainted , and when acquainted , rapidly and deeply in love . 
A short period of exquisite felicity followed , and but a short one . 
He thought it a very degrading alliance and Lady Russell , though with more tempered and pardonable pride , received it as a most unfortunate one . 
Captain Wentworth had no fortune . 
He had been lucky in his profession but spending freely , what had come freely , had realized nothing . 
He had always been lucky he knew he knew he should be so still . 
Such confidence , powerful in its own warmth , and bewitching in the wit which often expressed it , must have been enough for Anne but Lady Russell saw it very differently . 
His sanguine temper , and fearlessness of mind , operated very differently on her . 
She saw in it but an aggravation of the evil . 
It only added a dangerous character to himself . 
He was brilliant , he was headstrong . 
Lady Russell had little taste for wit , and of anything approaching to imprudence a horror . 
She deprecated the connexion in every light . 
Such opposition , as these feelings produced , was more than Anne could combat . 
She was persuaded to believe the engagement a wrong thing indiscreet , improper , hardly capable of success , and not deserving it . 
But it was not a merely selfish caution , under which she acted , in putting an end to it . 
Had she not imagined herself consulting his good , even more than her own , she could hardly have given him up . 
He had left the country in consequence . 
A few months had seen the beginning and the end of their acquaintance but not with a few months ended Anne's share of suffering from it . 
Her attachment and regrets had , for a long time , clouded every enjoyment of youth , and an early loss of bloom and spirits had been their lasting effect . 
, or in any novelty or enlargement of society . 
No one had ever come within the Kellynch circle , who could bear a comparison with Frederick Wentworth , as he stood in her memory . 
All his sanguine expectations , all his confidence had been justified . 
His genius and ardour had seemed to foresee and to command his prosperous path . 
He had , very soon after their engagement ceased , got employ and all that he had told her would follow , had taken place . 
He had distinguished himself , and early gained the other step in rank , and must now , by successive captures , have made a handsome fortune . 
She often told herself it was folly , before she could harden her nerves sufficiently to feel the continual discussion of the Crofts and their business no evil . 
This meeting of the two parties proved highly satisfactory , and decided the whole business at once . 
The Baronet will never set the Thames on fire , but there seems to be no harm in him . 
reciprocal compliments , which would have been esteemed about equal . 
It would be most right , and most wise , and , therefore must involve least suffering to go with the others . 
Something occurred , however , to give her a different duty . 
I cannot possibly do without Anne , was Mary's reasoning and Elizabeth's reply was , Then I am sure Anne had better stay , for nobody will want her in Bath . 
Anne herself was become hardened to such affronts but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly as Lady Russell . 
She did not imagine that her father had at present an idea of the kind . 
Anne was so impressed by the degree of their danger , that she could not excuse herself from trying to make it perceptible to her sister . 
She spoke , and seemed only to offend . 
Elizabeth could not conceive how such an absurd suspicion should occur to her , and indignantly answered for each party's perfectly knowing their situation . 
And as to my father , I really should not have thought that he , who has kept himself single so long for our sakes , need be suspected now . 
But poor Mrs Clay who , with all her merits , can never have been reckoned tolerably pretty , I really think poor Mrs Clay may be staying here in perfect safety . 
One would imagine you had never heard my father speak of her personal misfortunes , though I know you must fifty times . 
That tooth of her's and those freckles . 
Freckles do not disgust me so very much as they do him . 
I have known a face not materially disfigured by a few , but he abominates them . 
You must have heard him notice Mrs Clay's freckles . 
There is hardly any personal defect , replied Anne , which an agreeable manner might not gradually reconcile one to . 
I think very differently , answered Elizabeth , shortly an agreeable manner may set off handsome features , but can never alter plain ones . 
Anne had done glad that it was over , and not absolutely hopeless of doing good . 
Elizabeth , though resenting the suspicion , might yet be made observant by it . 
The last office of the four carriage horses was to draw Sir Walter , Miss Elliot , and Mrs Clay to Bath . 
Her friend was not in better spirits than herself . 
Lady Russell felt this break up of the family exceedingly . 
Their respectability was as dear to her as her own , and a daily intercourse had become precious by habit . 
Accordingly their removal was made together , and Anne was set down at Uppercross Cottage , in the first stage of Lady Russell's journey . 
Here Anne had often been staying . 
She knew the ways of Uppercross as well as those of Kellynch . 
Though better endowed than the elder sister , Mary had not Anne's understanding nor temper . 
While well , and happy , and properly attended to , she had great good humour and excellent spirits but any indisposition sunk her completely . 
In person , she was inferior to both sisters , and had , even in her bloom , only reached the dignity of being a fine girl . 
I am so ill I can hardly speak . 
I have not seen a creature the whole morning ! I am sorry to find you unwell , replied Anne . 
Suppose I were to be seized of a sudden in some dreadful way , and not able to ring the bell ! So , Lady Russell would not get out . 
I do not think she has been in this house three times this summer . 
Anne said what was proper , and enquired after her husband . 
Oh ! Charles is out shooting . 
I have not seen him since seven o'clock . 
He would go , though I told him how ill I was . 
He said he should not stay out long but he has never come back , and now it is almost one . 
I assure you , I have not seen a soul this whole long morning . 
You have had your little boys with you ? Yes , as long as I could bear their noise but they are so unmanageable that they do me more harm than good . 
Little Charles does not mind a word I say , and Walter is growing quite as bad . 
Well , you will soon be better now , replied Anne , cheerfully . 
You know I always cure you when I come . 
How are your neighbours at the Great House ? I can give you no account of them . 
It did not happen to suit the Miss Musgroves , I suppose , and they never put themselves out of their way . 
You will see them yet , perhaps , before the morning is gone . 
I never want them , I assure you . 
They talk and laugh a great deal too much for me . 
Oh ! Anne , I am so very unwell ! It was quite unkind of you not to come on Thursday . 
Dear me ! what can you possibly have to do ? A great many things , I assure you . 
More than I can recollect in a moment but I can tell you some . 
I have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father's books and pictures . 
I have been several times in the garden with Mackenzie , trying to understand , and make him understand , which of Elizabeth's plants are for Lady Russell . 
I was told that they wished it . 
But all these things took up a great deal of time . 
Oh ! well ! and after a moment's pause , but you have never asked me one word about our dinner at the Pooles yesterday . 
Did you go then ? I have made no enquiries , because I concluded you must have been obliged to give up the party . 
Oh yes ! I went . 
I was very well yesterday nothing at all the matter with me till this morning . 
It would have been strange if I had not gone . 
I am very glad you were well enough , and I hope you had a pleasant party . 
One always knows beforehand what the dinner will be , and who will be there and it is so very uncomfortable not having a carriage of one's own . 
Mr and Mrs Musgrove took me , and we were so crowded ! They are both so very large , and take up so much room and Mr Musgrove always sits forward . 
So , there was I , crowded into the back seat with Henrietta and Louise and I think it very likely that my illness to day may be owing to it . 
A little further perseverance in patience and forced cheerfulness on Anne's side produced nearly a cure on Mary's . 
She could soon sit upright on the sofa , and began to hope she might be able to leave it by dinner time . 
Where shall we go ? said she , when they were ready . 
I suppose you will not like to call at the Great House before they have been to see you ? I have not the smallest objection on that account , replied Anne . 
I should never think of standing on such ceremony with people I know so well as Mrs and the Miss Musgroves . 
Oh ! but they ought to call upon you as soon as possible . 
They ought to feel what is due to you as my sister . 
However , we may as well go and sit with them a little while , and when we have that over , we can enjoy our walk . 
The Musgroves , like their houses , were in a state of alteration , perhaps of improvement . 
The father and mother were in the old English style , and the young people in the new . 
Mr and Mrs Musgrove were a very good sort of people friendly and hospitable , not much educated , and not at all elegant . 
Their children had more modern minds and manners . 
Their dress had every advantage , their faces were rather pretty , their spirits extremely good , their manner unembarrassed and pleasant they were of consequence at home , and favourites abroad . 
They were received with great cordiality . 
Nothing seemed amiss on the side of the Great House family , which was generally , as Anne very well knew , the least to blame . 
She had no dread of these two months . 
Mary was not so repulsive and unsisterly as Elizabeth , nor so inaccessible to all influence of hers neither was there anything among the other component parts of the cottage inimical to comfort . 
As it was , he did nothing with much zeal , but sport and his time was otherwise trifled away , without benefit from books or anything else . 
, they might pass for a happy couple . 
As to the management of their children , his theory was much better than his wife's , and his practice not so bad . 
Known to have some influence with her sister , she was continually requested , or at least receiving hints to exert it , beyond what was practicable . 
I am sure , Anne , if you would , you might persuade him that I really am very ill a great deal worse than I ever own . 
I assure you , Miss Anne , it prevents my wishing to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should . 
She had this communication , moreover , from Mary . 
I meet them wherever I go and I declare , I never go twice into my nursery without seeing something of them . 
Nobody doubts her right to have precedence of mamma , but it would be more becoming in her not to be always insisting on it . 
It is not that mamma cares about it the least in the world , but I know it is taken notice of by many persons . 
In all other respects , her visit began and proceeded very well . 
She knew that when she played she was giving pleasure only to herself but this was no new sensation . 
The party at the Great House was sometimes increased by other company . 
There were more completely popular . 
The girls were wild for dancing and the evenings ended , occasionally , in an unpremeditated little ball . 
Michaelmas came and now Anne's heart must be in Kellynch again . 
How low it makes me ! The Crofts took possession with true naval alertness , and were to be visited . 
Mary deplored the necessity for herself . 
Nobody knew how much she should suffer . 
Anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no means of her going . 
She wished , however to see the Crofts , and was glad to be within when the visit was returned . 
Mrs Croft , though neither tall nor fat , had a squareness , uprightness , and vigour of form , which gave importance to her person . 
Anne hoped she had outlived the age of blushing but the age of emotion she certainly had not . 
Perhaps you may not have heard that he is married ? added Mrs Croft . 
And I will tell you our reason , she added , and all about it . 
I will tell you why she is out of spirits . 
She found , however , that it was one to which she must inure herself . 
Since he actually was expected in the country , she must teach herself to be insensible on such points . 
The resolution of doing so helped to form the comfort of their evening . 
Captain Wentworth made a very early return to Mr Musgrove's civility , and she was all but calling there in the same half hour . 
His collar bone was found to be dislocated , and such injury received in the back , as roused the most alarming ideas . 
Her brother's return was the first comfort he could take best care of his wife and the second blessing was the arrival of the apothecary . 
But in this he was eagerly opposed by his wife , with Oh ! no , indeed , Charles , I cannot bear to have you go away . 
Only think if anything should happen ? The child had a good night , and was going on well the next day . 
Nothing can be going on better than the child , said he so I told my father , just now , that I would come , and he thought me quite right . 
Your sister being with you , my love , I have no scruple at all . 
You would not like to leave him yourself , but you see I can be of no use . 
Anne will send for me if anything is the matter . 
Husbands and wives generally understand when opposition will be vain . 
Mary knew , from Charles's manner of speaking , that he was quite determined on going , and that it would be of no use to teaze him . 
This is always my luck . 
If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it , and Charles is as bad as any of them . 
Very unfeeling ! I must say it is very unfeeling of him to be running away from his poor little boy . 
My being the mother is the very reason why my feelings should not be tried . 
I am not at all equal to it . 
You saw how hysterical I was yesterday . 
But that was only the effect of the suddenness of your alarm of the shock . 
You will not be hysterical again . 
I dare say we shall have nothing to distress us . 
I perfectly understand Mr Robinson's directions , and have no fears and indeed , Mary , I cannot wonder at your husband . 
Nursing does not belong to a man it is not his province . 
A sick child is always the mother's property her own feelings generally make it so . 
I have not nerves for the sort of thing . 
I really think Charles might as well have told his father we would all come . 
I am not more alarmed about little Charles now than he is . 
I was dreadfully alarmed yesterday , but the case is very different to day . 
Well , if you do not think it too late to give notice for yourself , suppose you were to go , as well as your husband . 
Leave little Charles to my care . 
Mr and Mrs Musgrove cannot think it wrong while I remain with him . 
Are you serious ? cried Mary , her eyes brightening . 
Dear me ! that's a very good thought , very good , indeed . 
To be sure , I may just as well go as not , for I am of no use at home am I ? and it only harasses me . 
You , who have not a mother's feelings , are a great deal the properest person . 
You can make little Charles do anything he always minds you at a word . 
It will be a great deal better than leaving him only with Jemima . 
An excellent thought of yours , indeed , Anne . 
I will go and tell Charles , and get ready directly . 
You can send for us , you know , at a moment's notice , if anything is the matter but I dare say there will be nothing to alarm you . 
I should not go , you may be sure , if I did not feel quite at ease about my dear child . 
If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child , I should not be able to persuade him to do anything he did not like . 
Anne will stay Anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of him . 
It is Anne's own proposal , and so I shall go with you , which will be a great deal better , for I have not dined at the other house since Tuesday . 
Perhaps indifferent , if indifference could exist under such circumstances . 
He must be either indifferent or unwilling . 
Her brother and sister came back delighted with their new acquaintance , and their visit in general . 
He wished to avoid seeing her . 
And it was soon over . 
In two minutes after Charles's preparation , the others appeared they were in the drawing room . 
It is over ! it is over ! she repeated to herself again and again , in nervous gratitude . 
The worst is over ! Mary talked , but she could not attend . 
They had been once more in the same room . 
Soon , however , she began to reason with herself , and try to be feeling less . 
Eight years , almost eight years had passed , since all had been given up . 
Alas ! with all her reasoning , she found , that to retentive feelings eight years may be little more than nothing . 
Now , how were his sentiments to be read ? Was this like wishing to avoid her ? And the next moment she was hating herself for the folly which asked the question . 
Henrietta asked him what he thought of you , when they went away , and he said , You were so altered he should not have known you again . 
Mary had no feelings to make her respect her sister's in a common way , but she was perfectly unsuspicious of being inflicting any peculiar wound . 
Anne fully submitted , in silent , deep mortification . 
Doubtless it was so , and she could take no revenge , for he was not altered , or not for the worse . 
She had already acknowledged it to herself , and she could not think differently , let him think of her as he would . 
No the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing , manly , open look , in no respect lessening his personal advantages . 
She had seen the same Frederick Wentworth . 
So altered that he should not have known her again ! These were words which could not but dwell with her . 
Yet she soon began to rejoice that she had heard them . 
They were of sobering tendency they allayed agitation they composed , and consequently must make her happier . 
Frederick Wentworth had used such words , or something like them , but without an idea that they would be carried round to her . 
He had thought her wretchedly altered , and in the first moment of appeal , had spoken as he felt . 
He had not forgiven Anne Elliot . 
She had given him up to oblige others . 
It had been the effect of over persuasion . 
It had been weakness and timidity . 
Her power with him was gone for ever . 
It was now his object to marry . 
Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking . 
A little beauty , and a few smiles , and a few compliments to the navy , and I am a lost man . 
Should not this be enough for a sailor , who has had no society among women to make him nice ? He said it , she knew , to be contradicted . 
A strong mind , with sweetness of manner , made the first and the last of the description . 
That is the woman I want , said he . 
Something a little inferior I shall of course put up with , but it must not be much . 
If I am a fool , I shall be a fool indeed , for I have thought on the subject more than most men . 
Chapter From this time Captain Wentworth and Anne Elliot were repeatedly in the same circle . 
There must be the same immediate association of thought , though she was very far from conceiving it to be of equal pain . 
They had no conversation together , no intercourse but what the commonest civility required . 
, there could have been no two hearts so open , no tastes so similar , no feelings so in unison , no countenances so beloved . 
Now they were as strangers nay , worse than strangers , for they could never become acquainted . 
It was a perpetual estrangement . 
When he talked , she heard the same voice , and discerned the same mind . 
, and sitting down together to pore over it , with the professed view of finding out the ships that Captain Wentworth had commanded . 
Your first was the Asp , I remember we will look for the Asp . 
You will not find her there . 
Quite worn out and broken up . 
I was the last man who commanded her . 
Hardly fit for service then . 
Reported fit for home service for a year or two , and so I was sent off to the West Indies . 
The girls looked all amazement . 
The Admiralty , he continued , entertain themselves now and then , with sending a few hundred men to sea , in a ship not fit to be employed . 
Phoo ! phoo ! cried the Admiral , what stuff these young fellows talk ! Never was a better sloop than the Asp in her day . 
For an old built sloop , you would not see her equal . 
Lucky fellow to get her ! He knows there must have been twenty better men than himself applying for her at the same time . 
Lucky fellow to get anything so soon , with no more interest than his . 
I felt my luck , Admiral , I assure you replied Captain Wentworth , seriously . 
I was as well satisfied with my appointment as you can desire . 
It was a great object with me at that time to be at sea a very great object , I wanted to be doing something . 
To be sure you did . 
What should a young fellow like you do ashore for half a year together ? If a man had not a wife , he soon wants to be afloat again . 
But , Captain Wentworth , cried Louisa , how vexed you must have been when you came to the Asp , to see what an old thing they had given you . 
I knew pretty well what she was before that day said he , smiling . 
Ah ! she was a dear old Asp to me . 
She did all that I wanted . 
I brought her into Plymouth and here another instance of luck . 
Anne's shudderings were to herself alone but the Miss Musgroves could be as open as they were sincere , in their exclamations of pity and horror . 
, do ask Captain Wentworth where it was he first met with your poor brother . 
It was at Gibraltar , mother , I know . 
Dick had been left ill at Gibraltar , with a recommendation from his former captain to Captain Wentworth . 
Charles , being somewhat more mindful of the probabilities of the case , only nodded in reply , and walked away . 
Ah ! those were pleasant days when I had the Laconia ! How fast I made money in her . 
A friend of mine and I had such a lovely cruise together off the Western Islands . 
Poor Harville , sister ! You know how much he wanted money worse than myself . 
I shall never forget his happiness . 
He felt it all , so much for her sake . 
I wished for him again the next summer , when I had still the same luck in the Mediterranean . 
And I am sure , Sir . 
said Mrs Musgrove , it was a lucky day for us , when you were put captain into that ship . 
We shall never forget what you did . 
My brother , whispered one of the girls mamma is thinking of poor Richard . 
I assure you , Captain Wentworth , we are very sorry he ever left you . 
They were actually on the same sofa , for Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him they were divided only by Mrs Musgrove . 
It was no insignificant barrier , indeed . 
Personal size and mental sorrow have certainly no necessary proportions . 
A large bulky figure has as good a right to be in deep affliction , as the most graceful set of limbs in the world . 
But , fair or not fair , there are unbecoming conjunctions , which reason will patronize in vain which taste cannot tolerate which ridicule will seize . 
Should I ? I am glad I was not a week later then . 
The Admiral abused him for his want of gallantry . 
But , if I know myself , said he , this is from no want of gallantry towards them . 
It is rather from feeling how impossible it is , with all one's efforts , and all one's sacrifices , to make the accommodations on board such as women ought to have . 
There can be no want of gallantry , Admiral , in rating the claims of women to every personal comfort high , and this is what I do . 
This brought his sister upon him . 
Oh ! Frederick ! But I cannot believe it of you . 
All idle refinement ! Women may be as comfortable on board , as in the best house in England . 
I believe I have lived as much on board as most women , and I know nothing superior to the accommodations of a man of war . 
, beyond what I always had in most of the ships I have lived in and they have been five altogether . 
Nothing to the purpose , replied her brother . 
You were living with your husband , and were the only woman on board . 
But you , yourself , brought Mrs Harville , her sister , her cousin , and three children , round from Portsmouth to Plymouth . 
Where was this superfine , extraordinary sort of gallantry of yours then ? All merged in my friendship , Sophia . 
I would assist any brother officer's wife that I could , and I would bring anything of Harville's from the world's end , if he wanted it . 
But do not imagine that I did not feel it an evil in itself . 
Depend upon it , they were all perfectly comfortable . 
I might not like them the better for that perhaps . 
Such a number of women and children have no right to be comfortable on board . 
My dear Frederick , you are talking quite idly . 
But I hate to hear you talking so like a fine gentleman , and as if women were all fine ladies , instead of rational creatures . 
We none of us expect to be in smooth water all our days . 
Ah ! my dear , said the Admiral , when he had got a wife , he will sing a different tune . 
We shall have him very thankful to anybody that will bring him his wife . 
Ay , that we shall . 
Now I have done , cried Captain Wentworth . 
When once married people begin to attack me with , Oh ! you will think very differently , when you are married . 
I can only say , No , I shall not and then they say again , Yes , you will , and there is an end of it . 
He got up and moved away . 
What a great traveller you must have been , ma'am ! said Mrs Musgrove to Mrs Croft . 
Pretty well , ma'am in the fifteen years of my marriage though many women have done more . 
But I never went beyond the Streights , and never was in the West Indies . 
We do not call Bermuda or Bahama , you know , the West Indies . 
Mrs Musgrove had not a word to say in dissent she could not accuse herself of having ever called them anything in the whole course of her life . 
And I do assure you , ma'am , pursued Mrs Croft , that nothing can exceed the accommodations of a man of war I speak , you know , of the higher rates . 
While we were together , you know , there was nothing to be feared . 
Thank God ! I have always been blessed with excellent health , and no climate disagrees with me . 
A little disordered always the first twenty four hours of going to sea , but never knew what sickness was afterwards . 
Aye , to be sure . 
Yes , indeed , oh yes ! I am quite of your opinion , Mrs Croft , was Mrs Musgrove's hearty answer . 
There is nothing so bad as a separation . 
I am quite of your opinion . 
I know what it is , for Mr Musgrove always attends the assizes , and I am so glad when they are over , and he is safe back again . 
The evening ended with dancing . 
It was a merry , joyous party , and no one seemed in higher spirits than Captain Wentworth . 
She felt that he had every thing to elevate him which general attention and deference , and especially the attention of all the young women , could do . 
She is never tired of playing . 
Once , too , he spoke to her . 
Anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches . 
His cold politeness , his ceremonious grace , were worse than anything . 
It was soon Uppercross with him almost every day . 
Hitherto there had been but one opinion of Captain Wentworth among the Musgroves and their dependencies . 
He was in orders and having a curacy in the neighbourhood , where residence was not required , lived at his father's house , only two miles from Uppercross . 
Mrs Musgrove and Mrs Hayter were sisters . 
They had each had money , but their marriages had made a material difference in their degree of consequence . 
Charles's attentions to Henrietta had been observed by her father and mother without any disapprobation . 
It would not be a great match for her but if Henrietta liked him , and Henrietta did seem to like him . 
Henrietta fully thought so herself , before Captain Wentworth came but from that time Cousin Charles had been very much forgotten . 
Which of the two sisters was preferred by Captain Wentworth was as yet quite doubtful , as far as Anne's observation reached . 
Henrietta was perhaps the prettiest , Louisa had the higher spirits and she knew not now , whether the more gentle or the more lively character were most likely to attract him . 
Charles gave it for Louisa , Mary for Henrietta , but quite agreeing that to have him marry either could be extremely delightful . 
Oh ! it would be a capital match for either of his sisters . 
Upon my word it would , replied Mary . 
Dear me ! If he should rise to any very great honours ! If he should ever be made a baronet ! Lady Wentworth' sounds very well . 
That would be a noble thing , indeed , for Henrietta ! She would take place of me then , and Henrietta would not dislike that . 
Sir Frederick and Lady Wentworth ! It would be but a new creation , however , and I never think much of your new creations . 
It suited Mary best to think Henrietta the one preferred on the very account of Charles Hayter , whose pretensions she wished to see put an end to . 
She looked down very decidedly upon the Hayters , and thought it would be quite a misfortune to have the existing connection between the families renewed very sad for herself and her children . 
And , pray , who is Charles Hayter ? Nothing but a country curate . 
A most improper match for Miss Musgrove of Uppercross . 
Now you are taking nonsense , Mary , was therefore his answer . 
The estate at Winthrop is not less than two hundred and fifty acres , besides the farm near Taunton , which is some of the best land in the country . 
No , no Henrietta might do worse than marry Charles Hayter and if she has him , and Louisa can get Captain Wentworth , I shall be very well satisfied . 
She took hardly any notice of Charles Hayter yesterday . 
I wish you had been there to see her behaviour . 
And as to Captain Wentworth's liking Louisa as well as Henrietta , it is nonsense to say so for he certainly does like Henrietta a great deal the best . 
She had thought only of avoiding Captain Wentworth but an escape from being appealed to as umpire was now added to the advantages of a quiet evening . 
Either of them would , in all probability , make him an affectionate , good humoured wife . 
Charles Hayter had met with much to disquiet and mortify him in his cousin's behaviour . 
When he came back , alas ! the zeal of the business was gone by . 
Well , I am very glad indeed but I always thought you would have it I always thought you sure . 
It did not appear to me that in short , you know , Dr Shirley must have a curate , and you had secured his promise . 
He continued at the window and after calmly and politely saying , I hope the little boy is better , was silent . 
She only attempted to say , How do you do ? Will you not sit down ? The others will be here presently . 
Another minute brought another addition . 
She spoke to him , ordered , entreated , and insisted in vain . 
Once she did contrive to push him away , but the boy had the greater pleasure in getting upon her back again directly . 
Walter , said she , get down this moment . 
I am very angry with you . 
But not a bit did Walter stir . 
Her sensations on the discovery made her perfectly speechless . 
She could not even thank him . 
She could only hang over little Charles , with most disordered feelings . 
It might have been an opportunity of watching the loves and jealousies of the four they were now altogether but she could stay for none of it . 
It was evident that Charles Hayter was not well inclined towards Captain Wentworth . 
But neither Charles Hayter's feelings , nor anybody's feelings , could interest her , till she had a little better arranged her own . 
Chapter Other opportunities of making her observations could not fail to occur . 
They were more in love with him yet there it was not love . 
It was a little fever of admiration but it might , probably must , end in love with some . 
Charles Hayter seemed aware of being slighted , and yet Henrietta had sometimes the air of being divided between them . 
Anne longed for the power of representing to them all what they were about , and of pointing out some of the evils they were exposing themselves to . 
She did not attribute guile to any . 
It was the highest satisfaction to her to believe Captain Wentworth not in the least aware of the pain he was occasioning . 
There was no triumph , no pitiful triumph in his manner . 
He had , probably , never heard , and never thought of any claims of Charles Hayter . 
He was only wrong in accepting the attentions of two young women at once . 
After a short struggle , however , Charles Hayter seemed to quit the field . 
Three days had passed without his coming once to Uppercross a most decided change . 
It was Mary's hope and belief that he had received a positive dismissal from Henrietta , and her husband lived under the constant dependence of seeing him to morrow . 
Anne could only feel that Charles Hayter was wise . 
I cannot imagine why they should suppose I should not like a long walk , said Mary , as she went up stairs . 
Everybody is always supposing that I am not a good walker and yet they would not have been pleased , if we had refused to join them . 
When people come in this manner on purpose to ask us , how can one say no ? Just as they were setting off , the gentlemen returned . 
They had taken out a young dog , who had spoilt their sport , and sent them back early . 
Their time and strength , and spirits , were , therefore , exactly ready for this walk , and they entered into it with pleasure . 
Anne's object was , not to be in the way of anybody and where the narrow paths across the fields made many separations necessary , to keep with her brother and sister . 
It was mere lively chat , such as any young persons , on an intimate footing , might fall into . 
He was more engaged with Louisa than with Henrietta . 
Louisa certainly put more forward for his notice than her sister . 
This distinction appeared to increase , and there was one speech of Louisa's which struck her . 
They talked of coming into this side of the country . 
I wonder whereabouts they will upset to day . 
Oh ! it does happen very often , I assure you but my sister makes nothing of it she would as lieve be tossed out as not . 
Ah ! You make the most of it , I know , cried Louisa , but if it were really so , I should do just the same in her place . 
It was spoken with enthusiasm . 
Had you ? cried he , catching the same tone I honour you ! And there was silence between them for a little while . 
Anne could not immediately fall into a quotation again . 
Winthrop , without beauty and without dignity , was stretched before them an indifferent house , standing low , and hemmed in by the barns and buildings of a farm yard . 
Mary exclaimed , Bless me ! here is Winthrop . 
I declare I had no idea ! Well now , I think we had better turn back I am excessively tired . 
She received no other answer , than an artificial , assenting smile , followed by a contemptuous glance , as he turned away , which Anne perfectly knew the meaning of . 
She turned through the same gate , but could not see them . 
Mary sat down for a moment , but it would not do she was sure Louisa had found a better seat somewhere else , and she would go on till she overtook her . 
They were speaking as they drew near . 
Louisa's voice was the first distinguished . 
She seemed to be in the middle of some eager speech . 
What Anne first heard was And so , I made her go . 
I could not bear that she should be frightened from the visit by such nonsense . 
I am almost ashamed to say it . 
Your sister is an amiable creature but yours is the character of decision and firmness , I see . 
If you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can . 
But this , no doubt , you have been always doing . 
It is the worst evil of too yielding and indecisive a character , that no influence over it can be depended on . 
You are never sure of a good impression being durable everybody may sway it . 
Let those who would be happy be firm . 
Here is a nut , said he , catching one down from an upper bough . 
to exemplify a beautiful glossy nut , which , blessed with original strength , has outlived all the storms of autumn . 
Not a puncture , not a weak spot anywhere . 
Then returning to his former earnest tone My first wish for all whom I am interested in , is that they should be firm . 
If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life , she will cherish all her present powers of mind . 
He had done , and was unanswered . 
It would have surprised Anne if Louisa could have readily answered such a speech words of such interest , spoken with such serious warmth ! She could imagine what Louisa was feeling . 
For herself , she feared to move , lest she should be seen . 
While she remained , a bush of low rambling holly protected her , and they were moving on . 
Before they were beyond her hearing , however , Louisa spoke again . 
Mary is good natured enough in many respects , said she but she does sometimes provoke me excessively , by her nonsense and pride the Elliot pride . 
She has a great deal too much of the Elliot pride . 
We do so wish that Charles had married Anne instead . 
I suppose you know he wanted to marry Anne ? After a moment's pause , Captain Wentworth said Do you mean that she refused him ? Oh ! yes certainly . 
When did that happen ? I do not exactly know , for Henrietta and I were at school at the time but I believe about a year before he married Mary . 
I wish she had accepted him . 
We should all have liked her a great deal better and papa and mamma always think it was her great friend Lady Russell's doing , that she did not . 
They think Charles might not be learned and bookish enough to please Lady Russell , and that therefore , she persuaded Anne to refuse him . 
The sounds were retreating , and Anne distinguished no more . 
Her own emotions still kept her fixed . 
She had much to recover from , before she could move . 
The listener's proverbial fate was not absolutely hers she had heard no evil of herself , but she had heard a great deal of very painful import . 
Her spirits wanted the solitude and silence which only numbers could give . 
Charles and Henrietta returned , bringing , as may be conjectured , Charles Hayter with them . 
Henrietta looked a little ashamed , but very well pleased Charles Hayter exceedingly happy and they were devoted to each other almost from the first instant of their all setting forward for Uppercross . 
He and his wife had taken their intended drive , and were returning home . 
The invitation was general , and generally declined . 
The something might be guessed by its effects . 
Miss Elliot , I am sure you are tired , cried Mrs Croft . 
Do let us have the pleasure of taking you home . 
Here is excellent room for three , I assure you . 
If we were all like you , I believe we might sit four . 
You must , indeed , you must . 
Anne was still in the lane and though instinctively beginning to decline , she was not allowed to proceed . 
Yes he had done it . 
She was very much affected by the view of his disposition towards her , which all these things made apparent . 
This little circumstance seemed the completion of all that had gone before . 
He could not forgive her , but he could not be unfeeling . 
Her answers to the kindness and the remarks of her companions were at first unconsciously given . 
They had travelled half their way along the rough lane , before she was quite awake to what they said . 
She then found them talking of Frederick . 
He certainly means to have one or other of those two girls , Sophy , said the Admiral but there is no saying which . 
He has been running after them , too , long enough , one would think , to make up his mind . 
Ay , this comes of the peace . 
If it were war now , he would have settled it long ago . 
We sailors , Miss Elliot , cannot afford to make long courtships in time of war . 
I had known you by character , however , long before . 
I wish Frederick would spread a little more canvass , and bring us home one of these young ladies to Kellynch . 
Then there would always be company for them . 
And very nice young ladies they both are I hardly know one from the other . 
One could not be connected with better people . 
My dear Admiral , that post ! we shall certainly take that post . 
These points formed her chief solicitude in anticipating her removal from Uppercross , where she felt she had been stationed quite long enough . 
The conclusion of her visit , however , was diversified in a way which she had not at all imagined . 
Captain Wentworth , after being unseen and unheard of at Uppercross for two whole days , appeared again among them to justify himself by a relation of what had kept him away . 
He had been there for four and twenty hours . 
The young people were all wild to see Lyme . 
They were , consequently , to stay the night there , and not to be expected back till the next day's dinner . 
After securing accommodations , and ordering a dinner at one of the inns , the next thing to be done was unquestionably to walk directly down to the sea . 
They were come too late in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme , as a public place , might offer . 
Captain Wentworth turned in to call on his friend the others walked on , and he was to join them on the Cobb . 
He had been engaged to Captain Harville's sister , and was now mourning her loss . 
They had been a year or two waiting for fortune and promotion . 
Fortune came , his prize money as lieutenant being great promotion , too , came at last but Fanny Harville did not live to know it . 
She had died the preceding summer while he was at sea . 
Captain Wentworth believed it impossible for man to be more attached to woman than poor Benwick had been to Fanny Harville , or to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change . 
The sympathy and good will excited towards Captain Benwick was very great . 
And yet , said Anne to herself , as they now moved forward to meet the party , he has not , perhaps , a more sorrowing heart than I have . 
I cannot believe his prospects so blighted for ever . 
He is younger than I am younger in feeling , if not in fact younger as a man . 
He will rally again , and be happy with another . 
They all met , and were introduced . 
Captain Harville was a tall , dark man , with a sensible , benevolent countenance a little lame and from strong features and want of health , looking much older than Captain Wentworth . 
Captain Benwick looked , and was , the youngest of the three , and , compared with either of them , a little man . 
He had a pleasing face and a melancholy air , just as he ought to have , and drew back from conversation . 
Captain Harville , though not equalling Captain Wentworth in manners , was a perfect gentleman , unaffected , warm , and obliging . 
These would have been all my friends , was her thought and she had to struggle against a great tendency to lowness . 
Captain Harville was no reader but he had contrived excellent accommodations , and fashioned very pretty shelves , for a tolerable collection of well bound volumes , the property of Captain Benwick . 
His lameness prevented him from taking much exercise but a mind of usefulness and ingenuity seemed to furnish him with constant employment within . 
He ventured among them again , however , though his spirits certainly did not seem fit for the mirth of the party in general . 
Chapter Anne and Henrietta , finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning , agreed to stroll down to the sea before breakfast . 
They went to the sands , to watch the flowing of the tide , which a fine south easterly breeze was bringing in with all the grandeur which so flat a shore admitted . 
There can be no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to Dr Shirley , after his illness , last spring twelve month . 
Now , I cannot help thinking it a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea . 
I do think he had better leave Uppercross entirely , and fix at Lyme . 
I wish his friends would propose it to him . 
I really think they ought . 
And , as to procuring a dispensation , there could be no difficulty at his time of life , and with his character . 
My only doubt is , whether anything could persuade him to leave his parish . 
He is so very strict and scrupulous in his notions over scrupulous I must say . 
I wish , said Henrietta , very well pleased with her companion , I wish Lady Russell lived at Uppercross , and were intimate with Dr Shirley . 
They were all at her disposal . 
It was evident that the gentleman , admired her exceedingly . 
Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it . 
Both master and man being in mourning assisted the idea . 
He seemed about thirty , and though not handsome , had an agreeable person . 
Anne felt that she should like to know who he was . 
drew half the party to the window . 
It was a gentleman's carriage , a curricle , but only coming round from the stable yard to the front door somebody must be going away . 
It was driven by a servant in mourning . 
Ah ! cried Captain Wentworth , instantly , and with half a glance at Anne , it is the very man we passed . 
The Miss Musgroves agreed to it and having all kindly watched him as far up the hill as they could , they returned to the breakfast table . 
The waiter came into the room soon afterwards . 
Dare say you heard the carriage , sir , while you were at dinner and going on now for Crewkherne , in his way to Bath and London . 
Elliot ! Many had looked on each other , and many had repeated the name , before all this had been got through , even by the smart rapidity of a waiter . 
Depend upon it , that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish , wherever he goes . 
But , Anne , only conceive how extraordinary ! I wish I had looked at him more . 
I wish we had been aware in time , who it was , that he might have been introduced to us . 
Putting all these very extraordinary circumstances together , said Captain Wentworth , we must consider it to be the arrangement of Providence , that you should not be introduced to your cousin . 
Of course , said Mary , you will mention our seeing Mr Elliot , the next time you write to Bath . 
I think my father certainly ought to hear of it do mention all about him . 
Anne avoided a direct reply , but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated , but as what ought to be suppressed . 
Mary never wrote to Bath herself all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with Elizabeth fell on Anne . 
Breakfast had not been long over , when they were joined by Captain and Mrs Harville and Captain Benwick with whom they had appointed to take their last walk about Lyme . 
They ought to be setting off for Uppercross by one , and in the mean while were to be all together , and out of doors as long as they could . 
Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her , as soon as they were all fairly in the street . 
Miss Elliot , said he , speaking rather low , you have done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much . 
I wish he could have such company oftener . 
It is bad for him , I know , to be shut up as he is but what can we do ? We cannot part . 
Ay , true enough , only June . 
And not known to him , perhaps , so soon . 
Not till the first week of August , when he came home from the Cape , just made into the Grappler . 
I was at Plymouth dreading to hear of him he sent in letters , but the Grappler was under orders for Portsmouth . 
There the news must follow him , but who was to tell it ? not I. I would as soon have been run up to the yard arm . 
The Laconia had come into Plymouth the week before no danger of her being sent to sea again . 
That's what he did , and nobody else could have saved poor James . 
Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her . 
Lord Byron's dark blue seas could not fail of being brought forward by their present view , and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible . 
It was soon drawn , perforce another way . 
In all their walks , he had had to jump her from the stiles the sensation was delightful to her . 
The hardness of the pavement for her feet , made him less willing upon the present occasion he did it , however . 
She was safely down , and instantly , to show her enjoyment , ran up the steps to be jumped down again . 
Is there no one to help me ? were the first words which burst from Captain Wentworth , in a tone of despair , and as if all his own strength were gone . 
Go to him , go to him , cried Anne , for heaven's sake go to him . 
I can support her myself . 
Leave me , and go to him . 
Rub her hands , rub her temples here are salts take them , take them . 
Captain Benwick had resigned the poor corpse like figure entirely to the brother's care , and was off for the town with the utmost rapidity . 
Both seemed to look to her for directions . 
Had not she better be carried to the inn ? Yes , I am sure carry her gently to the inn . 
Yes , yes , to the inn , repeated Captain Wentworth , comparatively collected , and eager to be doing something . 
I will carry her myself . 
Musgrove , take care of the others . 
They were not off the Cobb , before the Harvilles met them . 
Shocked as Captain Harville was , he brought senses and nerves that could be instantly useful and a look between him and his wife decided what was to be done . 
She must be taken to their house all must go to their house and await the surgeon's arrival there . 
Louisa had once opened her eyes , but soon closed them again , without apparent consciousness . 
Mary , too , was growing calmer . 
The surgeon was with them almost before it had seemed possible . 
They were sick with horror , while he examined but he was not hopeless . 
The head had received a severe contusion , but he had seen greater injuries recovered from he was by no means hopeless he spoke cheerfully . 
There was no injury but to the head . 
It now became necessary for the party to consider what was best to be done , as to their general situation . 
They were now able to speak to each other and consult . 
That Louisa must remain where she was , however distressing to her friends to be involving the Harvilles in such trouble , did not admit a doubt . 
The Harvilles silenced all scruples and , as much as they could , all gratitude . 
They had looked forward and arranged everything before the others began to reflect . 
Captain Benwick must give up his room to them , and get another bed elsewhere and the whole was settled . 
Mrs Harville was a very experienced nurse , and her nursery maid , who had lived with her long , and gone about with her everywhere , was just such another . 
Between these two , she could want no possible attendance by day or night . 
And all this was said with a truth and sincerity of feeling irresistible . 
Charles , Henrietta , and Captain Wentworth were the three in consultation , and for a little while it was only an interchange of perplexity and terror . 
Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross instantly . 
Musgrove , either you or I must go . 
Charles agreed , but declared his resolution of not going away . 
He would be as little incumbrance as possible to Captain and Mrs Harville but as to leaving his sister in such a state , he neither ought , nor would . 
So far it was decided and Henrietta at first declared the same . 
She , however , was soon persuaded to think differently . 
The plan had reached this point , when Anne , coming quietly down from Louisa's room , could not but hear what followed , for the parlour door was open . 
Then it is settled , Musgrove , cried Captain Wentworth , that you stay , and that I take care of your sister home . 
But as to the rest , as to the others , if one stays to assist Mrs Harville , I think it need be only one . 
Mrs Charles Musgrove will , of course , wish to get back to her children but if Anne will stay , no one so proper , so capable as Anne . 
She paused a moment to recover from the emotion of hearing herself so spoken of . 
The other two warmly agreed with what he said , and she then appeared . 
She coloured deeply , and he recollected himself and moved away . 
She expressed herself most willing , ready , happy to remain . 
It was what she had been thinking of , and wishing to be allowed to do . 
A bed on the floor in Louisa's room would be sufficient for her , if Mrs Harville would but think so . 
One thing more , and all seemed arranged . 
Captain Wentworth now hurried off to get everything ready on his part , and to be soon followed by the two ladies . 
When the plan was made known to Mary , however , there was an end of all peace in it . 
She gave a moment's recollection , as they hurried along , to the little circumstances which the same spots had witnessed earlier in the morning . 
She endeavoured to be composed , and to be just . 
In the mean while she was in the carriage . 
He had handed them both in , and placed himself between them and in this manner , under these circumstances , full of astonishment and emotion to Anne , she quitted Lyme . 
How the long stage would pass how it was to affect their manners what was to be their sort of intercourse , she could not foresee . 
It was all quite natural , however . 
He was devoted to Henrietta always turning towards her and when he spoke at all , always with the view of supporting her hopes and raising her spirits . 
In general , his voice and manner were studiously calm . 
To spare Henrietta from agitation seemed the governing principle . 
She thought it could scarcely escape him to feel that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour of happiness as a very resolute character . 
Anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon . 
Their actual speed , heightened by some dread of the conclusion , made the road appear but half as long as on the day before . 
In a low , cautious voice , he said I have been considering what we had best do . 
She must not appear at first . 
She could not stand it . 
I have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her , while I go in and break it to Mr and Mrs Musgrove . 
Do you think this is a good plan ? She did he was satisfied , and said no more . 
They had an early account from Lyme the next morning . 
Louisa was much the same . 
No symptoms worse than before had appeared . 
Charles came a few hours afterwards , to bring a later and more particular account . 
A speedy cure must not be hoped , but everything was going on as well as the nature of the case admitted . 
In speaking of the Harvilles , he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness , especially of Mrs Harville's exertions as a nurse . 
She really left nothing for Mary to do . 
He and Mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night . 
Mary had been hysterical again this morning . 
When he came away , she was going to walk out with Captain Benwick , which , he hoped , would do her good . 
He almost wished she had been prevailed on to come home the day before but the truth was , that Mrs Harville left nothing for anybody to do . 
Charles was to return to Lyme the same afternoon , and his father had at first half a mind to go with him , but the ladies could not consent . 
It would be going only to multiply trouble to the others , and increase his own distress and a much better scheme followed and was acted upon . 
Vague wishes of getting Sarah thither , had occurred before to Mrs Musgrove and Henrietta but without Anne , it would hardly have been resolved on , and found practicable so soon . 
They were indebted , the next day , to Charles Hayter , for all the minute knowledge of Louisa , which it was so essential to obtain every twenty four hours . 
He made it his business to go to Lyme , and his account was still encouraging . 
The intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger . 
Every report agreed in Captain Wentworth's appearing fixed in Lyme . 
Anne was to leave them on the morrow , an event which they all dreaded . 
What should they do without her ? They were wretched comforters for one another . 
A few days had made a change indeed ! If Louisa recovered , it would all be well again . 
More than former happiness would be restored . 
There could not be a doubt , to her mind there was none , of what would follow her recovery . 
Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious . 
She left it all behind her , all but the recollection that such things had been . 
Anne had never entered Kellynch since her quitting Lady Russell's house in September . 
It had not been necessary , and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the Hall she had contrived to evade and escape from . 
Her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the Lodge , and to gladden the eyes of its mistress . 
There was some anxiety mixed with Lady Russell's joy in meeting her . 
She knew who had been frequenting Uppercross . 
When they came to converse , she was soon sensible of some mental change . 
She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and Bath . 
She was actually forced to exert herself to meet Lady Russell with anything like the appearance of equal solicitude , on topics which had by nature the first claim on her . 
There was a little awkwardness at first in their discourse on another subject . 
They must speak of the accident at Lyme . 
Anne was conscious of not doing it so well as Lady Russell . 
When this was told , his name distressed her no longer . 
Anne , have you courage to go with me , and pay a visit in that house ? It will be some trial to us both . 
By remaining in the neighbourhood , I am become inured to it . 
In such moments Anne had no power of saying to herself , These rooms ought to belong only to us . 
He had enquired after her , she found , particularly had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot's not being the worse for her exertions , and had spoken of those exertions as great . 
This was handsome , and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done . 
His goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible . 
Now , this must be very bad for you , said he , suddenly rousing from a little reverie , to be coming and finding us here . 
I had not recollected it before , I declare , but it must be very bad . 
But now , do not stand upon ceremony . 
Get up and go over all the rooms in the house if you like it . 
Another time , Sir , I thank you , not now . 
Well , whenever it suits you . 
You can slip in from the shrubbery at any time and there you will find we keep our umbrellas hanging up by that door . 
, you will not think it a good place , for yours were always kept in the butler's room . 
Ay , so it always is , I believe . 
One man's ways may be as good as another's , but we all like our own best . 
And so you must judge for yourself , whether it would be better for you to go about the house or not . 
Anne , finding she might decline it , did so , very gratefully . 
We have made very few changes either , continued the Admiral , after thinking a moment . 
We told you about the laundry door , at Uppercross . 
That has been a very great improvement . 
Indeed , I must do ourselves the justice to say , that the few alterations we have made have been all very much for the better . 
My wife should have the credit of them , however . 
I have done very little besides sending away some of the large looking glasses from my dressing room , which was your father's . 
, I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life . 
Such a number of looking glasses ! oh Lord ! there was no getting away from one's self . 
And take it altogether , now that we have been into most of the houses hereabouts and can judge , there is not one that we like better than this . 
Pray say so , with my compliments . 
He will be glad to hear it . 
So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch Hall , or of seeing him in company with her friend . 
Everything was safe enough , and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject . 
They had been all in lodgings together . 
Mary had had her evils but upon the whole , as was evident by her staying so long , she had found more to enjoy than to suffer . 
Anne enquired after Captain Benwick , Mary's face was clouded directly . 
Oh ! Captain Benwick is very well , I believe , but he is a very odd young man . 
I do not know what he would be at . 
I suppose he was afraid of finding it dull but upon my word I should have thought we were lively enough at the Cottage for such a heart broken man as Captain Benwick . 
Charles laughed again and said , Now Mary , you know very well how it really was . 
That is the fact , upon my honour , Mary knows it is . 
Anne's good will , however , was not to be lessened by what she heard . 
She boldly acknowledged herself flattered , and continued her enquiries . 
Oh ! he talks of you , cried Charles , in such terms Mary interrupted him . 
I declare , Charles , I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time I was there . 
I declare , Anne , he never talks of you at all . 
No , admitted Charles , I do not know that he ever does , in a general way but however , it is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly . 
Elegance , sweetness , beauty . 
Oh ! there was no end of Miss Elliot's charms . 
And I am sure , cried Mary , warmly , it was a very little to his credit , if he did . 
Miss Harville only died last June . 
Such a heart is very little worth having is it , Lady Russell ? I am sure you will agree with me . 
I must see Captain Benwick before I decide , said Lady Russell , smiling . 
And that you are very likely to do very soon , I can tell you , ma'am , said Charles . 
So , I give you notice , Lady Russell . 
Any acquaintance of Anne's will always be welcome to me , was Lady Russell's kind answer . 
Oh ! as to being Anne's acquaintance , said Mary , I think he is rather my acquaintance , for I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight . 
Well , as your joint acquaintance , then , I shall be very happy to see Captain Benwick . 
You will not find anything very agreeable in him , I assure you , ma'am . 
He is one of the dullest young men that ever lived . 
He has walked with me , sometimes , from one end of the sands to the other , without saying a word . 
He is not at all a well bred young man . 
I am sure you will not like him . 
There we differ , Mary , said Anne . 
I think Lady Russell would like him . 
I think she would be so much pleased with his mind , that she would very soon see no deficiency in his manner . 
So do I , Anne , said Charles . 
I am sure Lady Russell would like him . 
He is just Lady Russell's sort . 
Give him a book , and he will read all day long . 
Yes , that he will ! exclaimed Mary , tauntingly . 
He will sit poring over his book , and not know when a person speaks to him , or when one drop's one's scissors , or anything that happens . 
Do you think Lady Russell would like that ? Lady Russell could not help laughing . 
I have really a curiosity to see the person who can give occasion to such directly opposite notions . 
I wish he may be induced to call here . 
And when he does , Mary , you may depend upon hearing my opinion but I am determined not to judge him beforehand . 
You will not like him , I will answer for it . 
Lady Russell began talking of something else . 
Mary spoke with animation of their meeting with , or rather missing , Mr Elliot so extraordinarily . 
He is a man , said Lady Russell , whom I have no wish to see . 
His declining to be on cordial terms with the head of his family , has left a very strong impression in his disfavour with me . 
This decision checked Mary's eagerness , and stopped her short in the midst of the Elliot countenance . 
With regard to Captain Wentworth , though Anne hazarded no enquiries , there was voluntary communication sufficient . 
His spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected . 
As Louisa improved , he had improved , and he was now quite a different creature from what he had been the first week . 
There can be no doubt that Lady Russell and Anne were both occasionally thinking of Captain Benwick , from this time . 
Captain Benwick came not , however . 
Henrietta remained with Louisa but all the rest of the family were again in their usual quarters . 
Lady Russell and Anne paid their compliments to them once , when Anne could not but feel that Uppercross was already quite alive again . 
Immediately surrounding Mrs Musgrove were the little Harvilles , whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two children from the Cottage , expressly arrived to amuse them . 
It was a fine family piece . 
Anne , judging from her own temperament , would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves , which Louisa's illness must have so greatly shaken . 
Louisa was now recovering apace . 
Her mother could even think of her being able to join their party at home , before her brothers and sisters went to school again . 
The Harvilles had promised to come with her and stay at Uppercross , whenever she returned . 
Captain Wentworth was gone , for the present , to see his brother in Shropshire . 
I hope I shall remember , in future , said Lady Russell , as soon as they were reseated in the carriage , not to call at Uppercross in the Christmas holidays . 
Everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters and sounds are quite innoxious , or most distressing , by their sort rather than their quantity . 
Anne did not share these feelings . 
Elizabeth's last letter had communicated a piece of news of some interest . 
Mr Elliot was in Bath . 
He had called in Camden Place had called a second time , a third had been pointedly attentive . 
She had a great wish to see him . 
If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree . 
She was put down in Camden Place and Lady Russell then drove to her own lodgings , in Rivers Street . 
Her father and sister were glad to see her , for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture , and met her with kindness . 
Her making a fourth , when they sat down to dinner , was noticed as an advantage . 
Mrs Clay was very pleasant , and very smiling , but her courtesies and smiles were more a matter of course . 
Anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival , but the complaisance of the others was unlooked for . 
They were evidently in excellent spirits , and she was soon to listen to the causes . 
They had no inclination to listen to her . 
Uppercross excited no interest , Kellynch very little it was all Bath . 
They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered their expectations in every respect . 
Their acquaintance was exceedingly sought after . 
Everybody was wanting to visit them . 
They had drawn back from many introductions , and still were perpetually having cards left by people of whom they knew nothing . 
Here were funds of enjoyment . 
But this was not all which they had to make them happy . 
They had Mr Elliot too . 
Anne had a great deal to hear of Mr Elliot . 
He was not only pardoned , they were delighted with him . 
They had not a fault to find in him . 
He had explained away all the appearance of neglect on his own side . 
It had originated in misapprehension entirely . 
He had never had an idea of throwing himself off he had feared that he was thrown off , but knew not why , and delicacy had kept him silent . 
Upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours , he was quite indignant . 
He , who had ever boasted of being an Elliot , and whose feelings , as to connection , were only too strict to suit the unfeudal tone of the present day . 
He was astonished , indeed , but his character and general conduct must refute it . 
The circumstances of his marriage , too , were found to admit of much extenuation . 
Colonel Wallis had known Mr Elliot long , had been well acquainted also with his wife , had perfectly understood the whole story . 
She was certainly not a woman of family , but well educated , accomplished , rich , and excessively in love with his friend . 
There had been the charm . 
Without that attraction , not all her money would have tempted Elliot , and Sir Walter was , moreover , assured of her having been a very fine woman . 
Here was a great deal to soften the business . 
Anne listened , but without quite understanding it . 
Allowances , large allowances , she knew , must be made for the ideas of those who spoke . 
She heard it all under embellishment . 
All that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language of the relators . 
In a worldly view , he had nothing to gain by being on terms with Sir Walter nothing to risk by a state of variance . 
In all probability he was already the richer of the two , and the Kellynch estate would as surely be his hereafter as the title . 
How her temper and understanding might bear the investigation of his present keener time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one . 
Anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at Lyme , but without being much attended to . 
Oh ! yes , perhaps , it had been Mr Elliot . 
It might be him , perhaps . 
They could not listen to her description of him . 
They were describing him themselves Sir Walter especially . 
was looking exactly as he had done when they last parted but Sir Walter had not been able to return the compliment entirely , which had embarrassed him . 
He did not mean to complain , however . 
Mr Elliot was better to look at than most men , and he had no objection to being seen with him anywhere . 
Mr Elliot , and his friends in Marlborough Buildings , were talked of the whole evening . 
Sir Walter thought much of Mrs Wallis she was said to be an excessively pretty woman , beautiful . 
He longed to see her . 
He hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets . 
The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women . 
He did not mean to say that there were no pretty women , but the number of the plain was out of all proportion . 
It had been a frosty morning , to be sure , a sharp frost , which hardly one woman in a thousand could stand the test of . 
But still , there certainly were a dreadful multitude of ugly women in Bath and as for the men ! they were infinitely worse . 
without observing that every woman's eye was upon him every woman's eye was sure to be upon Colonel Wallis . 
Modest Sir Walter ! He was not allowed to escape , however . 
His daughter and Mrs Clay united in hinting that Colonel Wallis's companion might have as good a figure as Colonel Wallis , and certainly was not sandy haired . 
How is Mary looking ? said Sir Walter , in the height of his good humour . 
The last time I saw her she had a red nose , but I hope that may not happen every day . 
Oh ! no , that must have been quite accidental . 
In general she has been in very good health and very good looks since Michaelmas . 
If I thought it would not tempt her to go out in sharp winds , and grow coarse , I would send her a new hat and pelisse . 
A knock at the door ! and so late ! It was ten o'clock . 
Could it be Mr Elliot ? They knew he was to dine in Lansdown Crescent . 
It was possible that he might stop in his way home to ask them how they did . 
They could think of no one else . 
Mrs Clay decidedly thought it Mr Elliot's knock . 
With all the state which a butler and foot boy could give , Mr Elliot was ushered into the room . 
It was the same , the very same man , with no difference but of dress . 
c which was all as politely done , and as politely taken , as possible , but her part must follow then . 
They were not the same , but they were , perhaps , equally good . 
He sat down with them , and improved their conversation very much . 
There could be no doubt of his being a sensible man . 
Ten minutes were enough to certify that . 
His tone , his expressions , his choice of subject , his knowing where to stop it was all the operation of a sensible , discerning mind . 
She gave him a short account of her party and business at Lyme . 
His regret increased as he listened . 
If he had but asked who the party were ! The name of Musgrove would have told him enough . 
The folly of the means they often employ is only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view . 
His enquiries , however , produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there , soon after his leaving the place . 
Having alluded to an accident , he must hear the whole . 
When he questioned , Sir Walter and Elizabeth began to question also , but the difference in their manner of doing it could not be unfelt . 
He staid an hour with them . 
On going down to breakfast the next morning , she found there had just been a decent pretence on the lady's side of meaning to leave them . 
I assure you I feel it none . 
She is nothing to me , compared with you and she was in full time to hear her father say , My dear madam , this must not be . 
As yet , you have seen nothing of Bath . 
You have been here only to be useful . 
You must not run away from us now . 
You must stay to be acquainted with Mrs Wallis , the beautiful Mrs Wallis . 
To your fine mind , I well know the sight of beauty is a real gratification . 
He spoke and looked so much in earnest , that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself . 
Her countenance , perhaps , might express some watchfulness but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister . 
The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties , and promise to stay . 
Had she been using any thing in particular ? No , nothing . 
Merely Gowland , he supposed . 
No , nothing at all . 
Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation , and you see what it has done for her . 
You see how it has carried away her freckles . 
If Elizabeth could but have heard this ! Such personal praise might have struck her , especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened . 
But everything must take its chance . 
The evil of a marriage would be much diminished , if Elizabeth were also to marry . 
As for herself , she might always command a home with Lady Russell . 
Lady Russell's composed mind and polite manners were put to some trial on this point , in her intercourse in Camden Place . 
As Mr Elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others . 
Everything united in him good understanding , correct opinions , knowledge of the world , and a warm heart . 
She was sure that he had not been happy in marriage . 
to prevent his thinking of a second choice . 
Her satisfaction in Mr Elliot outweighed all the plague of Mrs Clay . 
Anne presumed , however , still to smile about it , and at last to mention Elizabeth . 
Lady Russell listened , and looked , and made only this cautious reply Elizabeth ! very well time will explain . 
It was a reference to the future , which Anne , after a little observation , felt she must submit to . 
She could determine nothing at present . 
In that house Elizabeth must be first and she was in the habit of such general observance as Miss Elliot , that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible . 
Mr Elliot , too , it must be remembered , had not been a widower seven months . 
A little delay on his side might be very excusable . 
They went through the particulars of their first meeting a great many times . 
He gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness . 
She knew it well and she remembered another person's look also . 
They did not always think alike . 
His value for rank and connexion she perceived was greater than hers . 
were cousins of the Elliots and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly . 
Anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility , and she must acknowledge herself disappointed . 
No letter of condolence had been sent to Ireland . 
Family connexions were always worth preserving , good company always worth seeking Lady Dalrymple had taken a house , for three months , in Laura Place , and would be living in style . 
She had been at Bath the year before , and Lady Russell had heard her spoken of as a charming woman . 
It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed , if it could be done , without any compromise of propriety on the side of the Elliots . 
Sir Walter , however , would choose his own means , and at last wrote a very fine letter of ample explanation , regret , and entreaty , to his right honourable cousin . 
Neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot could admire the letter but it did all that was wanted , in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess . 
She was very much honoured , and should be happy in their acquaintance . 
The toils of the business were over , the sweets began . 
Had Lady Dalrymple and her daughter even been very agreeable , she would still have been ashamed of the agitation they created , but they were nothing . 
There was no superiority of manner , accomplishment , or understanding . 
Lady Dalrymple had acquired the name of a charming woman , because she had a smile and a civil answer for everybody . 
Miss Carteret , with still less to say , was so plain and so awkward , that she would never have been tolerated in Camden Place but for her birth . 
You are mistaken , said he gently , that is not good company that is the best . 
Good company requires only birth , education , and manners , and with regard to education is not very nice . 
Birth and good manners are essential but a little learning is by no means a dangerous thing in good company on the contrary , it will do very well . 
My cousin Anne shakes her head . 
in that degree of consideration which we must all wish for . 
Pardon me , dear cousin , you are unjust in your own claims . 
Well , said Anne , I certainly am proud , too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place . 
I love your indignation , said he it is very natural . 
But here you are in Bath , and the object is to be established here with all the credit and dignity which ought to belong to Sir Walter Elliot . 
in one point , I am sure , we must feel alike . 
We must feel that every addition to your father's society , among his equals or superiors , may be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him . 
Chapter While Sir Walter and Elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in Laura Place , Anne was renewing an acquaintance of a very different description . 
Miss Hamilton , now Mrs Smith , had shewn her kindness in one of those periods of her life when it had been most valuable . 
She was a widow and poor . 
Her husband had been extravagant and at his death , about two years before , had left his affairs dreadfully involved . 
Their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from Miss Elliot would give Mrs Smith , and Anne therefore lost no time in going . 
She mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home . 
It would excite no proper interest there . 
The visit was paid , their acquaintance re established , their interest in each other more than re kindled . 
The first ten minutes had its awkwardness and its emotion . 
Twelve years were gone since they had parted , and each presented a somewhat different person from what the other had imagined . 
Anne found in Mrs Smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on , and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation . 
In the course of a second visit she talked with great openness , and Anne's astonishment increased . 
She could scarcely imagine a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs Smith's . 
She had been very fond of her husband she had buried him . 
She had been used to affluence it was gone . 
She had no child to connect her with life and happiness again , no relations to assist in the arrangement of perplexed affairs , no health to make all the rest supportable . 
Yet , in spite of all this , Anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor and depression , to hours of occupation and enjoyment . 
How could it be ? She watched , observed , reflected , and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only . 
There had been a time , Mrs Smith told her , when her spirits had nearly failed . 
She could not call herself an invalid now , compared with her state on first reaching Bath . 
She had weathered it , however , and could truly say that it had done her good . 
It had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in good hands . 
And she , said Mrs Smith , besides nursing me most admirably , has really proved an invaluable acquaintance . 
She had a large acquaintance , of course professionally , among those who can afford to buy , and she disposes of my merchandize . 
She always takes the right time for applying . 
Everybody's heart is open , you know , when they have recently escaped from severe pain , or are recovering the blessing of health , and Nurse Rooke thoroughly understands when to speak . 
She is a shrewd , intelligent , sensible woman . 
One likes to hear what is going on , to be au fait as to the newest modes of being trifling and silly . 
To me , who live so much alone , her conversation , I assure you , is a treat . 
Anne , far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure , replied , I can easily believe it . 
Women of that class have great opportunities , and if they are intelligent may be well worth listening to . 
A sick chamber may often furnish the worth of volumes . 
Yes , said Mrs Smith more doubtingly , sometimes it may , though I fear its lessons are not often in the elevated style you describe . 
there are so many who forget to think seriously till it is almost too late . 
Anne saw the misery of such feelings . 
The husband had not been what he ought , and the wife had been led among that part of mankind which made her think worse of the world than she hoped it deserved . 
I mean to make my profit of Mrs Wallis , however . 
She has plenty of money , and I intend she shall buy all the high priced things I have in hand now . 
Anne had called several times on her friend , before the existence of such a person was known in Camden Place . 
At last , it became necessary to speak of her . 
She was not sorry for the excuse . 
Westgate Buildings ! said he , and who is Miss Anne Elliot to be visiting in Westgate Buildings ? A Mrs Smith . 
A widow Mrs Smith and who was her husband ? One of five thousand Mr Smiths whose names are to be met with everywhere . 
And what is her attraction ? That she is old and sickly . 
But surely you may put off this old lady till to morrow she is not so near her end , I presume , but that she may hope to see another day . 
She goes into the warm bath to morrow , and for the rest of the week , you know , we are engaged . 
But what does Lady Russell think of this acquaintance ? asked Elizabeth . 
She sees nothing to blame in it , replied Anne on the contrary , she approves it , and has generally taken me when I have called on Mrs Smith . 
Westgate Buildings must have been rather surprised by the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement , observed Sir Walter . 
Anne kept her appointment the others kept theirs , and of course she heard the next morning that they had had a delightful evening . 
Anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell . 
Her kind , compassionate visits to this old schoolfellow , sick and reduced , seemed to have quite delighted Mr Elliot . 
He thought her a most extraordinary young woman in her temper , manners , mind , a model of female excellence . 
Lady Russell was now perfectly decided in her opinion of Mr Elliot . 
Anne heard her , and made no violent exclamations she only smiled , blushed , and gently shook her head . 
I am no match maker , as you well know , said Lady Russell , being much too well aware of the uncertainty of all human events and calculations . 
A most suitable connection everybody must consider it , but I think it might be a very happy one . 
Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man , and in many respects I think highly of him , said Anne but we should not suit . 
For a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched . 
The same image of Mr Elliot speaking for himself brought Anne to composure again . 
The charm of Kellynch and of Lady Elliot all faded away . 
She never could accept him . 
Though they had now been acquainted a month , she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character . 
He certainly knew what was right , nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct . 
She distrusted the past , if not the present . 
The names which occasionally dropt of former associates , the allusions to former practices and pursuits , suggested suspicions not favourable of what he had been . 
There was never any burst of feeling , any warmth of indignation or delight , at the evil or good of others . 
This , to Anne , was a decided imperfection . 
Her early impressions were incurable . 
She prized the frank , the open hearted , the eager character beyond all others . 
Warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still . 
Mr Elliot was too generally agreeable . 
Various as were the tempers in her father's house , he pleased them all . 
He endured too well , stood too well with every body . 
Lady Russell saw either less or more than her young friend , for she saw nothing to excite distrust . 
Chapter It was the beginning of February and Anne , having been a month in Bath , was growing very eager for news from Uppercross and Lyme . 
She wanted to hear much more than Mary had communicated . 
It was three weeks since she had heard at all . 
The Crofts must be in Bath ! A circumstance to interest her . 
They were people whom her heart turned to very naturally . 
What is this ? cried Sir Walter . 
The Crofts have arrived in Bath ? The Crofts who rent Kellynch ? What have they brought you ? A letter from Uppercross Cottage , Sir . 
Oh ! those letters are convenient passports . 
I should have visited Admiral Croft , however , at any rate . 
I know what is due to my tenant . 
Anne could listen no longer she could not even have told how the poor Admiral's complexion escaped her letter engrossed her . 
It had been begun several days back . 
My dear Anne , I make no apology for my silence , because I know how little people think of letters in such a place as Bath . 
You must be a great deal too happy to care for Uppercross , which , as you well know , affords little to write about . 
We have had a very dull Christmas Mr and Mrs Musgrove have not had one dinner party all the holidays . 
I do not reckon the Hayters as anybody . 
The holidays , however , are over at last I believe no children ever had such long ones . 
I am sure I had not . 
The house was cleared yesterday , except of the little Harvilles but you will be surprised to hear they have never gone home . 
Mrs Harville must be an odd mother to part with them so long . 
I do not understand it . 
They are not at all nice children , in my opinion but Mrs Musgrove seems to like them quite as well , if not better , than her grandchildren . 
What dreadful weather we have had ! It may not be felt in Bath , with your nice pavements but in the country it is of some consequence . 
I have not had a creature call on me since the second week in January , except Charles Hayter , who had been calling much oftener than was welcome . 
Between ourselves , I think it a great pity Henrietta did not remain at Lyme as long as Louisa it would have kept her a little out of his way . 
The carriage is gone to day , to bring Louisa and the Harvilles to morrow . 
Let me know what you think of this . 
I do not expect my children to be asked , you know . 
I can leave them at the Great House very well , for a month or six weeks . 
I have this moment heard that the Crofts are going to Bath almost immediately they think the Admiral gouty . 
Charles heard it quite by chance they have not had the civility to give me any notice , or of offering to take anything . 
I do not think they improve at all as neighbours . 
We see nothing of them , and this is really an instance of gross inattention . 
Charles joins me in love , and everything proper . 
Yours affectionately , Mary M . 
I am sorry to say that I am very far from well and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a bad sore throat very much about . 
I dare say I shall catch it and my sore throats , you know , are always worse than anybody's . 
So ended the first part , which had been afterwards put into an envelope , containing nearly as much more . 
I kept my letter open , that I might send you word how Louisa bore her journey , and now I am extremely glad I did , having a great deal to add . 
The Admiral does not seem very ill , and I sincerely hope Bath will do him all the good he wants . 
I shall be truly glad to have them back again . 
Our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family . 
I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little . 
True , upon my honour ! Are not you astonished ? I shall be surprised at least if you ever received a hint of it , for I never did . 
Mrs Musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter . 
Mrs Harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister's account but , however , Louisa is a great favourite with both . 
Indeed , Mrs Harville and I quite agree that we love her the better for having nursed her . 
Charles wonders what Captain Wentworth will say but if you remember , I never thought him attached to Louisa I never could see anything of it . 
And this is the end , you see , of Captain Benwick's being supposed to be an admirer of yours . 
How Charles could take such a thing into his head was always incomprehensible to me . 
I hope he will be more agreeable now . 
Certainly not a great match for Louisa Musgrove , but a million times better than marrying among the Hayters . 
Mary need not have feared her sister's being in any degree prepared for the news . 
She had never in her life been more astonished . 
Happily for her , they were not many . 
How is Mary ? said Elizabeth and without waiting for an answer , And pray what brings the Crofts to Bath ? They come on the Admiral's account . 
He is thought to be gouty . 
Gout and decrepitude ! said Sir Walter . 
Have they any acquaintance here ? asked Elizabeth . 
I suspect , said Sir Walter coolly , that Admiral Croft will be best known in Bath as the renter of Kellynch Hall . 
Elizabeth , may we venture to present him and his wife in Laura Place ? Oh , no ! I think not . 
Situated as we are with Lady Dalrymple , cousins , we ought to be very careful not to embarrass her with acquaintance she might not approve . 
If we were not related , it would not signify but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours . 
We had better leave the Crofts to find their own level . 
There are several odd looking men walking about here , who , I am told , are sailors . 
The Crofts will associate with them . 
In her own room , she tried to comprehend it . 
She could not endure the idea of treachery or levity , or anything akin to ill usage between him and his friend . 
She could not endure that such a friendship as theirs should be severed unfairly . 
Their minds most dissimilar ! Where could have been the attraction ? The answer soon presented itself . 
It had been in situation . 
She did not mean , however , to derive much more from it to gratify her vanity , than Mary might have allowed . 
She was persuaded that any tolerably pleasing young woman who had listened and seemed to feel for him would have received the same compliment . 
He had an affectionate heart . 
She saw no reason against their being happy . 
Louisa had fine naval fervour to begin with , and they would soon grow more alike . 
The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste , and sentimental reflection was amusing , but she had no doubt of its being so . 
No , it was not regret which made Anne's heart beat in spite of herself , and brought the colour into her cheeks when she thought of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free . 
She had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate . 
The visit of ceremony was paid and returned and Louisa Musgrove was mentioned , and Captain Benwick , too , without even half a smile . 
The Crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in Gay Street , perfectly to Sir Walter's satisfaction . 
They brought with them their country habit of being almost always together . 
He was ordered to walk to keep off the gout , and Mrs Croft seemed to go shares with him in everything , and to walk for her life to do him good . 
Anne saw them wherever she went . 
Lady Russell took her out in her carriage almost every morning , and she never failed to think of them , and never failed to see them . 
Knowing their feelings as she did , it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her . 
When he did perceive and acknowledge her , however , it was done with all his usual frankness and good humour . 
Ha ! is it you ? Thank you , thank you . 
This is treating me like a friend . 
Here I am , you see , staring at a picture . 
I can never get by this shop without stopping . 
But what a thing here is , by way of a boat ! Do look at it . 
I wonder where that boat was built ! I would not venture over a horsepond in it . 
That I will , with all my heart , and farther , too . 
Yes , yes we will have a snug walk together , and I have something to tell you as we go along . 
There , take my arm that's right I do not feel comfortable if I have not a woman there . 
Lord ! what a boat it is ! taking a last look at the picture , as they began to be in motion . 
Did you say that you had something to tell me , sir ? Yes , I have , presently . 
But here comes a friend , Captain Brigden I shall only say , How d'ye do ? as we pass , however . 
How d'ye do ? Brigden stares to see anybody with me but my wife . 
She , poor soul , is tied by the leg . 
She has a blister on one of her heels , as large as a three shilling piece . 
If you look across the street , you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother . 
Shabby fellows , both of them ! I am glad they are not on this side of the way . 
They played me a pitiful trick once got away with some of my best men . 
I will tell you the whole story another time . 
There comes old Sir Archibald Drew and his grandson . 
Look , he sees us he kisses his hand to you he takes you for my wife . 
Ah ! the peace has come too soon for that younker . 
Poor old Sir Archibald ! How do you like Bath , Miss Elliot ? It suits us very well . 
We do not like our lodgings here the worse , I can tell you , for putting us in mind of those we first had at North Yarmouth . 
The wind blows through one of the cupboards just in the same way . 
When they were got a little farther , Anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate . 
As soon as they were fairly ascending Belmont , he began Well , now you shall hear something that will surprise you . 
But first of all , you must tell me the name of the young lady I am going to talk about . 
That young lady , you know , that we have all been so concerned for . 
The Miss Musgrove , that all this has been happening to . 
Her Christian name I always forget her Christian name . 
Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did but now she could safely suggest the name of Louisa . 
Ay , ay , Miss Louisa Musgrove , that is the name . 
I wish young ladies had not such a number of fine Christian names . 
I should never be out if they were all Sophys , or something of that sort . 
Well , this Miss Louisa , we all thought , you know , was to marry Frederick . 
He was courting her week after week . 
But even then there was something odd in their way of going on . 
Instead of staying at Lyme , he went off to Plymouth , and then he went off to see Edward . 
When we came back from Minehead he was gone down to Edward's , and there he has been ever since . 
We have seen nothing of him since November . 
Even Sophy could not understand it . 
I am a little acquainted with Captain Benwick . 
Well , she is to marry him . 
Nay , most likely they are married already , for I do not know what they should wait for . 
I thought Captain Benwick a very pleasing young man , said Anne , and I understand that he bears an excellent character . 
Oh ! yes , yes , there is not a word to be said against James Benwick . 
He is only a commander , it is true , made last summer , and these are bad times for getting on , but he has not another fault that I know of . 
Indeed you are mistaken there , sir I should never augur want of spirit from Captain Benwick's manners . 
I thought them particularly pleasing , and I will answer for it , they would generally please . 
There is something about Frederick more to our taste . 
It is not a mere bit of gossip . 
We have it from Frederick himself . 
I fancy they are all at Uppercross . 
I hope his letter does not breathe the spirit of an ill used man . 
Not at all , not at all there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning to end . 
Anne looked down to hide her smile . 
No , no Frederick is not a man to whine and complain he has too much spirit for that . 
If the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him . 
I should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and Captain Benwick should be destroyed , or even wounded , by a circumstance of this sort . 
Yes , yes , I understand you . 
But there is nothing at all of that nature in the letter . 
He does not give the least fling at Benwick does not so much as say , I wonder at it , I have a reason of my own for wondering at it . 
No , you would not guess , from his way of writing , that he had ever thought of this Miss for himself . 
He very handsomely hopes they will be happy together and there is nothing very unforgiving in that , I think . 
Anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the Admiral meant to convey , but it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther . 
She therefore satisfied herself with common place remarks or quiet attention , and the Admiral had it all his own way . 
Poor Frederick ! said he at last . 
Now he must begin all over again with somebody else . 
I think we must get him to Bath . 
Sophy must write , and beg him to come to Bath . 
Here are pretty girls enough , I am sure . 
It would be of no use to go to Uppercross again , for that other Miss Musgrove , I find , is bespoke by her cousin , the young parson . 
Before Mrs Croft had written , he was arrived , and the very next time Anne walked out , she saw him . 
Mr Elliot was attending his two cousins and Mrs Clay . 
They were in Milsom Street . 
He soon joined them again , successful , of course Lady Dalrymple would be most happy to take them home , and would call for them in a few minutes . 
Her ladyship's carriage was a barouche , and did not hold more than four with any comfort . 
Miss Carteret was with her mother consequently it was not reasonable to expect accommodation for all the three Camden Place ladies . 
There could be no doubt as to Miss Elliot . 
Whoever suffered inconvenience , she must suffer none , but it occupied a little time to settle the point of civility between the other two . 
The rain was a mere trifle , and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with Mr Elliot . 
just setting off for Union Street on a commission of Mrs Clay's . 
She now felt a great inclination to go to the outer door she wanted to see if it rained . 
Why was she to suspect herself of another motive ? Captain Wentworth must be out of sight . 
She would see if it rained . 
He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before he looked quite red . 
For the first time , since their renewed acquaintance , she felt that she was betraying the least sensibility of the two . 
She had the advantage of him in the preparation of the last few moments . 
All the overpowering , blinding , bewildering , first effects of strong surprise were over with her . 
Still , however , she had enough to feel ! It was agitation , pain , pleasure , a something between delight and misery . 
He spoke to her , and then turned away . 
The character of his manner was embarrassment . 
She could not have called it either cold or friendly , or anything so certainly as embarrassed . 
After a short interval , however , he came towards her , and spoke again . 
Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed neither of them , probably , much the wiser for what they heard , and Anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly . 
They had by dint of being so very much together , got to speak to each other with a considerable portion of apparent indifference and calmness but he could not do it now . 
Time had changed him , or Louisa had changed him . 
There was consciousness of some sort or other . 
It did not surprise , but it grieved Anne to observe that Elizabeth would not know him . 
Lady Dalrymple's carriage , for which Miss Elliot was growing very impatient , now drew up the servant came in to announce it . 
, were walking off and Captain Wentworth , watching them , turned again to Anne , and by manner , rather than words , was offering his services to her . 
I am much obliged to you , was her answer , but I am not going with them . 
The carriage would not accommodate so many . 
I walk I prefer walking . 
Oh ! very little , Nothing that I regard . 
I wish you would make use of it , if you are determined to walk though I think it would be more prudent to let me get you a chair . 
He will be here in a moment , I am sure . 
She had hardly spoken the words when Mr Elliot walked in . 
Captain Wentworth recollected him perfectly . 
As soon as they were out of sight , the ladies of Captain Wentworth's party began talking of them . 
Mr Elliot does not dislike his cousin , I fancy ? Oh ! no , that is clear enough . 
One can guess what will happen there . 
He is always with them half lives in the family , I believe . 
She is pretty , I think Anne Elliot very pretty , when one comes to look at her . 
It is not the fashion to say so , but I confess I admire her more than her sister . 
Oh ! so do I. And so do I. No comparison . 
But the men are all wild after Miss Elliot . 
Anne is too delicate for them . 
Anne would have been particularly obliged to her cousin , if he would have walked by her side all the way to Camden Place , without saying a word . 
But just now she could think only of Captain Wentworth . 
She could not understand his present feelings , whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not and till that point were settled , she could not be quite herself . 
She hoped to be wise and reasonable in time but alas ! alas ! she must confess to herself that she was not wise yet . 
Another circumstance very essential for her to know , was how long he meant to be in Bath he had not mentioned it , or she could not recollect it . 
He might be only passing through . 
But it was more probable that he should be come to stay . 
In that case , so liable as every body was to meet every body in Bath , Lady Russell would in all likelihood see him somewhere . 
Would she recollect him ? How would it all be ? She had already been obliged to tell Lady Russell that Louisa Musgrove was to marry Captain Benwick . 
There were many other men about him , many groups walking the same way , but there was no mistaking him . 
She looked instinctively at Lady Russell but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as she did herself . 
No , it was not to be supposed that Lady Russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite . 
, she was yet perfectly conscious of Lady Russell's eyes being turned exactly in the direction for him of her being , in short , intently observing him . 
Anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself . 
The part which provoked her most , was that in all this waste of foresight and caution , she should have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them . 
A day or two passed without producing anything . 
It was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by Lady Dalrymple . 
Of course they must attend . 
It was really expected to be a good one , and Captain Wentworth was very fond of music . 
Elizabeth had turned from him , Lady Russell overlooked him her nerves were strengthened by these circumstances she felt that she owed him attention . 
Mrs Smith gave a most good humoured acquiescence . 
By all means , said she only tell me all about it , when you do come . 
Who is your party ? Anne named them all . 
Anne was startled and confused but after standing in a moment's suspense , was obliged , and not sorry to be obliged , to hurry away . 
But hardly were they so settled , when the door opened again , and Captain Wentworth walked in alone . 
Anne was the nearest to him , and making yet a little advance , she instantly spoke . 
Their being in the back ground was a support to Anne she knew nothing of their looks , and felt equal to everything which she believed right to be done . 
While they were speaking , a whispering between her father and Elizabeth caught her ear . 
This , though late , and reluctant , and ungracious , was yet better than nothing , and her spirits improved . 
I am afraid you must have suffered from the shock , and the more from its not overpowering you at the time . 
She assured him that she had not . 
Certainly I could have none . 
But it appears I should hope it would be a very happy match . 
There are on both sides good principles and good temper . 
Yes , said he , looking not exactly forward but there , I think , ends the resemblance . 
With all my soul I wish them happy , and rejoice over every circumstance in favour of it . 
They have no difficulties to contend with at home , no opposition , no caprice , no delays . 
The Musgroves are behaving like themselves , most honourably and kindly , only anxious with true parental hearts to promote their daughter's comfort . 
All this is much , very much in favour of their happiness more than perhaps He stopped . 
A sudden recollection seemed to occur , and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening Anne's cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground . 
I regard Louisa Musgrove as a very amiable , sweet tempered girl , and not deficient in understanding , but Benwick is something more . 
He is a clever man , a reading man and I confess , that I do consider his attaching himself to her with some surprise . 
Had it been the effect of gratitude , had he learnt to love her , because he believed her to be preferring him , it would have been another thing . 
But I have no reason to suppose it so . 
It seems , on the contrary , to have been a perfectly spontaneous , untaught feeling on his side , and this surprises me . 
A man does not recover from such a devotion of the heart to such a woman . 
He ought not he does not . 
I could not leave it till Louisa's doing well was quite ascertained . 
I had been too deeply concerned in the mischief to be soon at peace . 
It had been my doing , solely mine . 
She would not have been obstinate if I had not been weak . 
The country round Lyme is very fine . 
I walked and rode a great deal and the more I saw , the more I found to admire . 
I should very much like to see Lyme again , said Anne . 
Indeed ! I should not have supposed that you could have found anything in Lyme to inspire such a feeling . 
The horror and distress you were involved in , the stretch of mind , the wear of spirits ! I should have thought your last impressions of Lyme must have been strong disgust . 
The last hours were certainly very painful , replied Anne but when pain is over , the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure . 
We were only in anxiety and distress during the last two hours , and previously there had been a great deal of enjoyment . 
, altogether my impressions of the place are very agreeable . 
As she ceased , the entrance door opened again , and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting . 
Lady Dalrymple , Lady Dalrymple , was the rejoicing sound and with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance , Sir Walter and his two ladies stepped forward to meet her . 
Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , escorted by Mr Elliot and Colonel Wallis , who had happened to arrive nearly at the same instant , advanced into the room . 
The others joined them , and it was a group in which Anne found herself also necessarily included . 
She was divided from Captain Wentworth . 
She was in good humour with all . 
She had received ideas which disposed her to be courteous and kind to all , and to pity every one , as being less happy than herself . 
The delightful emotions were a little subdued , when on stepping back from the group , to be joined again by Captain Wentworth , she saw that he was gone . 
She was just in time to see him turn into the Concert Room . 
He was gone he had disappeared , she felt a moment's regret . 
But they should meet again . 
He would look for her , he would find her out before the evening were over , and at present , perhaps , it was as well to be asunder . 
She was in need of a little interval for recollection . 
Very , very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot as they walked in . 
Anne saw nothing , thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room . 
Her happiness was from within . 
Her eyes were bright and her cheeks glowed but she knew nothing about it . 
She was thinking only of the last half hour , and as they passed to their seats , her mind took a hasty range over it . 
His choice of subjects , his expressions , and still more his manner and look , had been such as she could see in only one light . 
Yes , some share of the tenderness of the past . 
She could not contemplate the change as implying less . 
Miss Elliot , surrounded by her cousins , and the principal object of Colonel Wallis's gallantry , was quite contented . 
Towards the close of it , in the interval succeeding an Italian song , she explained the words of the song to Mr Elliot . 
They had a concert bill between them . 
I am a very poor Italian scholar . 
Yes , yes , I see you are . 
I see you know nothing of the matter . 
You have only knowledge enough of the language to translate at sight these inverted , transposed , curtailed Italian lines , into clear , comprehensible , elegant English . 
You need not say anything more of your ignorance . 
I will not oppose such kind politeness but I should be sorry to be examined by a real proficient . 
For shame ! for shame ! this is too much flattery . 
I forget what we are to have next , turning to the bill . 
Perhaps , said Mr Elliot , speaking low , I have had a longer acquaintance with your character than you are aware of . 
Indeed ! How so ? You can have been acquainted with it only since I came to Bath , excepting as you might hear me previously spoken of in my own family . 
I knew you by report long before you came to Bath . 
I had heard you described by those who knew you intimately . 
I have been acquainted with you by character many years . 
Your person , your disposition , accomplishments , manner they were all present to me . 
Mr Elliot was not disappointed in the interest he hoped to raise . 
No one can withstand the charm of such a mystery . 
To have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance , by nameless people , is irresistible and Anne was all curiosity . 
She wondered , and questioned him eagerly but in vain . 
He delighted in being asked , but he would not tell . 
No , no , some time or other , perhaps , but not now . 
He would mention no names now but such , he could assure her , had been the fact . 
He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot as had inspired him with the highest idea of her merit , and excited the warmest curiosity to know her . 
Anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as the Mr Wentworth of Monkford , Captain Wentworth's brother . 
He might have been in Mr Elliot's company , but she had not courage to ask the question . 
The name of Anne Elliot , said he , has long had an interesting sound to me . 
Very long has it possessed a charm over my fancy and , if I dared , I would breathe my wishes that the name might never change . 
Her father and Lady Dalrymple were speaking . 
A well looking man , said Sir Walter , a very well looking man . 
A very fine young man indeed ! said Lady Dalrymple . 
More air than one often sees in Bath . 
Irish , I dare say . 
No , I just know his name . 
Wentworth Captain Wentworth of the navy . 
His sister married my tenant in Somersetshire , the Croft , who rents Kellynch . 
Before Sir Walter had reached this point , Anne's eyes had caught the right direction , and distinguished Captain Wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance . 
As her eyes fell on him , his seemed to be withdrawn from her . 
When she could give another glance , he had moved away . 
He could not have come nearer to her if he would she was so surrounded and shut in but she would rather have caught his eye . 
Mr Elliot's speech , too , distressed her . 
She had no longer any inclination to talk to him . 
She wished him not so near her . 
The first act was over . 
Now she hoped for some beneficial change and , after a period of nothing saying amongst the party , some of them did decide on going in quest of tea . 
Anne was one of the few who did not choose to move . 
She was persuaded by Lady Russell's countenance that she had seen him . 
He did not come however . 
Anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance , but he never came . 
The anxious interval wore away unproductively . 
To Anne , it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation . 
She could not quit that room in peace without seeing Captain Wentworth once more , without the interchange of one friendly look . 
In re settling themselves there were now many changes , the result of which was favourable for her . 
Such was her situation , with a vacant space at hand , when Captain Wentworth was again in sight . 
She saw him not far off . 
He saw her too yet he looked grave , and seemed irresolute , and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to her . 
She felt that something must be the matter . 
The difference between his present air and what it had been in the Octagon Room was strikingly great . 
Why was it ? She thought of her father , of Lady Russell . 
It came from Mr Elliot . 
He begged her pardon , but she must be applied to , to explain Italian again . 
Miss Carteret was very anxious to have a general idea of what was next to be sung . 
Anne could not refuse but never had she sacrificed to politeness with a more suffering spirit . 
He must wish her good night he was going he should get home as fast as he could . 
Is not this song worth staying for ? said Anne , suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging . 
No ! he replied impressively , there is nothing worth my staying for and he was gone directly . 
Jealousy of Mr Elliot ! It was the only intelligible motive . 
Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection ! Could she have believed it a week ago three hours ago ! For a moment the gratification was exquisite . 
But , alas ! there were very different thoughts to succeed . 
She felt a great deal of good will towards him . 
In spite of the mischief of his attentions , she owed him gratitude and regard , perhaps compassion . 
It was altogether very extraordinary flattering , but painful . 
There was much to regret . 
Their union , she believed , could not divide her more from other men , than their final separation . 
Prettier musings of high wrought love and eternal constancy , could never have passed along the streets of Bath , than Anne was sporting with from Camden Place to Westgate Buildings . 
It was almost enough to spread purification and perfume all the way . 
She was sure of a pleasant reception and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming , seemed hardly to have expected her , though it had been an appointment . 
An account of the concert was immediately claimed and Anne's recollections of the concert were quite happy enough to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it . 
Everybody of any consequence or notoriety in Bath was well know by name to Mrs Smith . 
The little Durands were there , I conclude , said she , with their mouths open to catch the music , like unfledged sparrows ready to be fed . 
They never miss a concert . 
Yes I did not see them myself , but I heard Mr Elliot say they were in the room . 
The Ibbotsons , were they there ? and the two new beauties , with the tall Irish officer , who is talked of for one of them . 
I do not think they were . 
Old Lady Mary Maclean ? I need not ask after her . 
She never misses , I know and you must have seen her . 
She must have been in your own circle for as you went with Lady Dalrymple , you were in the seats of grandeur , round the orchestra , of course . 
No , that was what I dreaded . 
It would have been very unpleasant to me in every respect . 
Oh ! you saw enough for your own amusement . 
There is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd , and this you had . 
You were a large party in yourselves , and you wanted nothing beyond . 
No , no you were better employed . 
You need not tell me that you had a pleasant evening . 
I see it in your eye . 
I perfectly see how the hours passed that you had always something agreeable to listen to . 
In the intervals of the concert it was conversation . 
Anne half smiled and said , Do you see that in my eye ? Yes , I do . 
A blush overspread Anne's cheeks . 
It is really very good of you to come and sit with me , when you must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time . 
Anne heard nothing of this . 
She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend's penetration , unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth could have reached her . 
A moment's reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under . 
It is a great while since we met . 
I was not at all aware of this . 
You never mentioned it before . 
Had I known it , I would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you . 
To confess the truth , said Mrs Smith , assuming her usual air of cheerfulness , that is exactly the pleasure I want you to have . 
I want you to talk about me to Mr Elliot . 
I want your interest with him . 
I am sure you have , somehow or other , imbibed such a notion . 
You must consider me only as Mr Elliot's relation . 
If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , I beg you would not hesitate to employ me . 
Mrs Smith gave her a penetrating glance , and then , smiling , said I have been a little premature , I perceive I beg your pardon . 
I ought to have waited for official information , But now , my dear Miss Elliot , as an old friend , do give me a hint as to when I may speak . 
Next week ? To be sure by next week I may be allowed to think it all settled , and build my own selfish schemes on Mr Elliot's good fortune . 
No , replied Anne , nor next week , nor next , nor next . 
I assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any week . 
I am not going to marry Mr Elliot . 
Till it does come , you know , we women never mean to have anybody . 
It is a thing of course among us , that every man is refused , till he offers . 
But why should you be cruel ? Let me plead for my present friend I cannot call him , but for my former friend . 
Where can you look for a more suitable match ? Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike , agreeable man ? Let me recommend Mr Elliot . 
He ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any one . 
Oh ! if these are your only objections , cried Mrs Smith , archly , Mr Elliot is safe , and I shall give myself no more trouble about him . 
Do not forget me when you are married , that's all . 
Ninety nine out of a hundred would do the same . 
Of course , he cannot be aware of the importance to me . 
Well , my dear Miss Elliot , I hope and trust you will be very happy . 
Mr Elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman . 
Your peace will not be shipwrecked as mine has been . 
You are safe in all worldly matters , and safe in his character . 
He will not be led astray he will not be misled by others to his ruin . 
No , said Anne , I can readily believe all that of my cousin . 
He seems to have a calm decided temper , not at all open to dangerous impressions . 
I consider him with great respect . 
I have no reason , from any thing that has fallen within my observation , to do otherwise . 
But I have not known him long and he is not a man , I think , to be known intimately soon . 
Will not this manner of speaking of him , Mrs Smith , convince you that he is nothing to me ? Surely this must be calm enough . 
And , upon my word , he is nothing to me . 
, I shall not accept him . 
I assure you I shall not . 
Mrs Smith would hardly have believed so soon in Mr Elliot's failure , but from the perception of there being a somebody else . 
Do tell me how it first came into your head . 
But I never heard it spoken of till two days ago . 
She came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot . 
She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself , which did not seem bad authority . 
She sat an hour with me on Monday evening , and gave me the whole history . 
The whole history , repeated Anne , laughing . 
She could not make a very long history , I think , of one such little article of unfounded news . 
Shall I mention to him your being in Bath ? Shall I take any message ? No , I thank you no , certainly not . 
In the warmth of the moment , and under a mistaken impression , I might , perhaps , have endeavoured to interest you in some circumstances but not now . 
No , I thank you , I have nothing to trouble you with . 
I think you spoke of having known Mr Elliot many years ? I did . 
Not before he was married , I suppose ? Yes he was not married when I knew him first . 
And were you much acquainted ? Intimately . 
Indeed ! Then do tell me what he was at that time of life . 
I have a great curiosity to know what Mr Elliot was as a very young man . 
They were both silent Mrs Smith very thoughtful . 
I have been doubting and considering as to what I ought to tell you . 
There were many things to be taken into the account . 
One hates to be officious , to be giving bad impressions , making mischief . 
Even the smooth surface of family union seems worth preserving , though there may be nothing durable beneath . 
However , I have determined I think I am right I think you ought to be made acquainted with Mr Elliot's real character . 
Though I fully believe that , at present , you have not the smallest intention of accepting him , there is no saying what may happen . 
You might , some time or other , be differently affected towards him . 
Hear the truth , therefore , now , while you are unprejudiced . 
He has no feeling for others . 
Those whom he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin , he can neglect and desert without the smallest compunction . 
He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion . 
You must allow for an injured , angry woman . 
But I will try to command myself . 
I will not abuse him . 
I will only tell you what I have found him . 
He was the intimate friend of my dear husband , who trusted and loved him , and thought him as good as himself . 
The intimacy had been formed before our marriage . 
I found them most intimate friends and I , too , became excessively pleased with Mr Elliot , and entertained the highest opinion of him . 
We were principally in town , living in very good style . 
He had always a home with us whenever he chose it he was always welcome he was like a brother . 
This must have been about that very period of Mr Elliot's life , said Anne , which has always excited my particular curiosity . 
It must have been about the same time that he became known to my father and sister . 
It seemed to announce a different sort of man . 
I know it all , I know it all , cried Mrs Smith . 
He had been introduced to Sir Walter and your sister before I was acquainted with him , but I heard him speak of them for ever . 
I know he was invited and encouraged , and I know he did not choose to go . 
I can satisfy you , perhaps , on points which you would little expect and as to his marriage , I knew all about it at the time . 
Nay , said Anne , I have no particular enquiry to make about her . 
I have always understood they were not a happy couple . 
But I should like to know why , at that time of his life , he should slight my father's acquaintance as he did . 
My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him . 
He was determined to make it by marriage . 
That was his motive for drawing back , I can assure you . 
He told me the whole story . 
He had no concealments with me . 
He described one Miss Elliot , and I thought very affectionately of the other . 
Perhaps , cried Anne , struck by a sudden idea , you sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot ? To be sure I did very often . 
I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot , and vouch for your being a very different creature from She checked herself just in time . 
This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night , cried Anne . 
I found he had been used to hear of me . 
I could not comprehend how . 
What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned ! How sure to be mistaken ! But I beg your pardon I have interrupted you . 
Mr Elliot married then completely for money ? The circumstances , probably , which first opened your eyes to his character . 
Mrs Smith hesitated a little here . 
Oh ! those things are too common . 
When one lives in the world , a man or woman's marrying for money is too common to strike one as it ought . 
I was very young , and associated only with the young , and we were a thoughtless , gay set , without any strict rules of conduct . 
I think differently now time and sickness and sorrow have given me other notions but at that period I must own I saw nothing reprehensible in what Mr Elliot was doing . 
To do the best for himself , passed as a duty . 
But was not she a very low woman ? Yes which I objected to , but he would not regard . 
Money , money , was all that he wanted . 
Her father was a grazier , her grandfather had been a butcher , but that was all nothing . 
All his caution was spent in being secured of the real amount of her fortune , before he committed himself . 
Depend upon it , whatever esteem Mr Elliot may have for his own situation in life now , as a young man he had not the smallest value for it . 
His chance for the Kellynch estate was something , but all the honour of the family he held as cheap as dirt . 
It would not be fair and yet you ought to have proof , for what is all this but assertion , and you shall have proof . 
Indeed , my dear Mrs Smith , I want none , cried Anne . 
You have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years ago . 
This is all in confirmation , rather , of what we used to hear and believe . 
I am more curious to know why he should be so different now . 
Anne , seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it , did as she was desired . 
The letter I am looking for was one written by Mr Elliot to him before our marriage , and happened to be saved why , one can hardly imagine . 
Here it is I would not burn it , because being even then very little satisfied with Mr Elliot , I was determined to preserve every document of former intimacy . 
I have now another motive for being glad that I can produce it . 
This was the letter , directed to Charles Smith , Esq . 
Tunbridge Wells , and dated from London , as far back as July , Dear Smith , I have received yours . 
Your kindness almost overpowers me . 
I wish nature had made such hearts as yours more common , but I have lived three and twenty years in the world , and have seen none like it . 
At present , believe me , I have no need of your services , being in cash again . 
Give me joy I have got rid of Sir Walter and Miss . 
The baronet , nevertheless , is not unlikely to marry again he is quite fool enough . 
If he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion . 
He is worse than last year . 
I wish I had any name but Elliot . 
I am sick of it . 
Though I have forgot the exact terms , I have a perfect impression of the general meaning . 
But it shows you the man . 
Mark his professions to my poor husband . 
Can any thing be stronger ? Anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father . 
This is full proof undoubtedly proof of every thing you were saying . 
But why be acquainted with us now ? I can explain this too , cried Mrs Smith , smiling . 
Can you really ? Yes . 
I have shewn you Mr Elliot as he was a dozen years ago , and I will shew him as he is now . 
I cannot produce written proof again , but I can give as authentic oral testimony as you can desire , of what he is now wanting , and what he is now doing . 
He is no hypocrite now . 
He truly wants to marry you . 
His present attentions to your family are very sincere quite from the heart . 
I will give you my authority his friend Colonel Wallis . 
The stream is as good as at first the little rubbish it collects in the turnings is easily moved away . 
She in the overflowing spirits of her recovery , repeats it all to her nurse and the nurse knowing my acquaintance with you , very naturally brings it all to me . 
On Monday evening , my good friend Mrs Rooke let me thus much into the secrets of Marlborough Buildings . 
When I talked of a whole history , therefore , you see I was not romancing so much as you supposed . 
My dear Mrs Smith , your authority is deficient . 
Mr Elliot's having any views on me will not in the least account for the efforts he made towards a reconciliation with my father . 
That was all prior to my coming to Bath . 
I found them on the most friendly terms when I arrived . 
I know you did I know it all perfectly , but Indeed , Mrs Smith , we must not expect to get real information in such a line . 
Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many , to be misconceived by folly in one , and ignorance in another , can hardly have much truth left . 
Only give me a hearing . 
You will soon be able to judge of the general credit due , by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm . 
Nobody supposes that you were his first inducement . 
He had seen you indeed , before he came to Bath , and admired you , but without knowing it to be you . 
So says my historian , at least . 
So far it is very true . 
I happened to be at Lyme . 
Well , continued Mrs Smith , triumphantly , grant my friend the credit due to the establishment of the first point asserted . 
But there was another , and an earlier , which I will now explain . 
If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me . 
Now you are to understand , that time had worked a very material change in Mr Elliot's opinions as to the value of a baronetcy . 
Upon all points of blood and connexion he is a completely altered man . 
I thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased , but it is now a confirmed feeling . 
He cannot bear the idea of not being Sir William . 
This was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done and Colonel Wallis was to assist in every way that he could . 
He was to be introduced , and Mrs Wallis was to be introduced , and everybody was to be introduced . 
, to watch Sir Walter and Mrs Clay . 
He omitted no opportunity of being with them , threw himself in their way , called at all hours but I need not be particular on this subject . 
You can imagine what an artful man would do and with this guide , perhaps , may recollect what you have seen him do . 
Yes , said Anne , you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known , or could imagine . 
There is always something offensive in the details of cunning . 
The manoeuvres of selfishness and duplicity must ever be revolting , but I have heard nothing which really surprises me . 
I know those who would be shocked by such a representation of Mr Elliot , who would have difficulty in believing it but I have never been satisfied . 
I have always wanted some other motive for his conduct than appeared . 
I should like to know his present opinion , as to the probability of the event he has been in dread of whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not . 
Lessening , I understand , replied Mrs Smith . 
He thinks Mrs Clay afraid of him , aware that he sees through her , and not daring to proceed as she might do in his absence . 
But since he must be absent some time or other , I do not perceive how he can ever be secure while she holds her present influence . 
A scheme , worthy of Mrs Wallis's understanding , by all accounts but my sensible nurse Rooke sees the absurdity of it . 
Why , to be sure , ma'am , said she , it would not prevent his marrying anybody else . 
And , indeed , to own the truth , I do not think nurse , in her heart , is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter's making a second match . 
It will be more painful to me in some respects to be in company with him , but I shall know better what to do . 
My line of conduct will be more direct . 
Mr Elliot is evidently a disingenuous , artificial , worldly man , who has never had any better principle to guide him than selfishness . 
But Mr Elliot was not done with . 
they had been as before always together , and Mr Elliot had led his friend into expenses much beyond his fortune . 
The husband had died just in time to be spared the full knowledge of it . 
It was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity and Anne felt , at some moments , that no flagrant open crime could have been worse . 
Anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief , and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of her friend's usual state of mind . 
There was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation . 
But there was nobody to stir in it . 
She had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel , and she could not afford to purchase the assistance of the law . 
This was a cruel aggravation of actually streightened means . 
It was on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne's good offices with Mr Elliot . 
After listening to this full description of Mr Elliot , Anne could not but express some surprise at Mrs Smith's having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation . 
She had seemed to recommend and praise him ! My dear , was Mrs Smith's reply , there was nothing else to be done . 
He was very unkind to his first wife . 
But she was too ignorant and giddy for respect , and he had never loved her . 
I was willing to hope that you must fare better . 
Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him , as made her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed . 
Chapter Anne went home to think over all that she had heard . 
In one point , her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of Mr Elliot . 
There was no longer anything of tenderness due to him . 
Pity for him was all over . 
But this was the only point of relief . 
In every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and to apprehend . 
She was most thankful for her own knowledge of him . 
Could the knowledge have been extended through her family ? But this was a vain idea . 
I had not the smallest intention of asking him , said Elizabeth , with affected carelessness , but he gave so many hints so Mrs Clay says , at least . 
Indeed , I do say it . 
I never saw anybody in my life spell harder for an invitation . 
Poor man ! I was really in pain for him for your hard hearted sister , Miss Anne , seems bent on cruelty . 
Oh ! cried Elizabeth , I have been rather too much used to the game to be soon overcome by a gentleman's hints . 
They appear to so much advantage in company with each other . 
Mr Elliot looking up with so much respect . 
Quite delightful ! cried Mrs Clay , not daring , however , to turn her eyes towards Anne . 
Exactly like father and son ! Dear Miss Elliot , may I not say father and son ? Oh ! I lay no embargo on any body's words . 
If you will have such ideas ! But , upon my word , I am scarcely sensible of his attentions being beyond those of other men . 
My dear Miss Elliot ! exclaimed Mrs Clay , lifting her hands and eyes , and sinking all the rest of her astonishment in a convenient silence . 
Well , my dear Penelope , you need not be so alarmed about him . 
I did invite him , you know . 
I sent him away with smiles . 
When I found he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to morrow , I had compassion on him . 
To Anne herself it was most distressing to see Mr Elliot enter the room and quite painful to have him approach and speak to her . 
She had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere , but now she saw insincerity in everything . 
She meant to avoid any such alteration of manners as might provoke a remonstrance on his side . 
She was accordingly more guarded , and more cool , than she had been the night before . 
He little surmised that it was a subject acting now exactly against his interest , bringing immediately to her thoughts all those parts of his conduct which were least excusable . 
She had some satisfaction in finding that he was really going out of Bath the next morning , going early , and that he would be gone the greater part of two days . 
He was invited again to Camden Place the very evening of his return but from Thursday to Saturday evening his absence was certain . 
She saw Mrs Clay fairly off , therefore , before she began to talk of spending the morning in Rivers Street . 
Very well , said Elizabeth , I have nothing to send but my love . 
Oh ! you may as well take back that tiresome book she would lend me , and pretend I have read it through . 
I really cannot be plaguing myself for ever with all the new poems and states of the nation that come out . 
Lady Russell quite bores one with her new publications . 
You need not tell her so , but I thought her dress hideous the other night . 
I used to think she had some taste in dress , but I was ashamed of her at the concert . 
Something so formal and arrange in her air ! and she sits so upright ! My best love , of course . 
And mine , added Sir Walter . 
And you may say , that I mean to call upon her soon . 
Make a civil message but I shall only leave my card . 
Morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life , who make themselves up so little . 
If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen but last time I called , I observed the blinds were let down immediately . 
While her father spoke , there was a knock at the door . 
Who could it be ? Anne , remembering the preconcerted visits , at all hours , of Mr Elliot , would have expected him , but for his known engagement seven miles off . 
After the usual period of suspense , the usual sounds of approach were heard , and Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove were ushered into the room . 
They were come to Bath for a few days with Mrs Musgrove , and were at the White Hart . 
She then found that it consisted of Mrs Musgrove , Henrietta , and Captain Harville , beside their two selves . 
He gave her a very plain , intelligible account of the whole a narration in which she saw a great deal of most characteristic proceeding . 
The scheme had received its first impulse by Captain Harville's wanting to come to Bath on business . 
But then , it had been taken up by his father and mother . 
They had arrived late the night before . 
Mrs Harville , her children , and Captain Benwick , remained with Mr Musgrove and Louisa at Uppercross . 
Anne's only surprise was , that affairs should be in forwardness enough for Henrietta's wedding clothes to be talked of . 
And a very good living it was , Charles added only five and twenty miles from Uppercross , and in a very fine country fine part of Dorsetshire . 
Not that he will value it as he ought , he observed , Charles is too cool about sporting . 
That's the worst of him . 
I hope your father and mother are quite happy with regard to both . 
My father would be well pleased if the gentlemen were richer , but he has no other fault to find . 
Money , you know , coming down with money two daughters at once it cannot be a very agreeable operation , and it streightens him as to many things . 
However , I do not mean to say they have not a right to it . 
It is very fit they should have daughters' shares and I am sure he has always been a very kind , liberal father to me . 
Mary does not above half like Henrietta's match . 
She never did , you know . 
But she does not do him justice , nor think enough about Winthrop . 
I cannot make her attend to the value of the property . 
It is a very fair match , as times go and I have liked Charles Hayter all my life , and I shall not leave off now . 
Such excellent parents as Mr and Mrs Musgrove , exclaimed Anne , should be happy in their children's marriages . 
They do everything to confer happiness , I am sure . 
Anne could not help laughing . 
That cannot be much to your taste , I know , said she but I do believe him to be an excellent young man . 
To be sure he is . 
Nobody doubts it and I hope you do not think I am so illiberal as to want every man to have the same objects and pleasures as myself . 
I have a great value for Benwick and when one can but get him to talk , he has plenty to say . 
His reading has done him no harm , for he has fought as well as read . 
He is a brave fellow . 
I got more acquainted with him last Monday than ever I did before . 
We had a famous set to at rat hunting all the morning in my father's great barns and he played his part so well that I have liked him the better ever since . 
She would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could , but she did not want to lessen theirs . 
The visit passed off altogether in high good humour . 
She had no demands on her father or sister , and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome drawing rooms . 
Elizabeth was , for a short time , suffering a good deal . 
It was a struggle between propriety and vanity but vanity got the better , and then Elizabeth was happy again . 
I am sure she would rather not come she cannot feel easy with us . 
I will ask them all for an evening that will be much better that will be a novelty and a treat . 
They have not seen two such drawing rooms before . 
They will be delighted to come to morrow evening . 
It shall be a regular party , small , but most elegant . 
And this satisfied Elizabeth and when the invitation was given to the two present , and promised for the absent , Mary was as completely satisfied . 
Her plan of sitting with Lady Russell must give way for the present . 
They found Mrs Musgrove and her daughter within , and by themselves , and Anne had the kindest welcome from each . 
It was a heartiness , and a warmth , and a sincerity which Anne delighted in the more , from the sad want of such blessings at home . 
A morning of thorough confusion was to be expected . 
A large party in an hotel ensured a quick changing , unsettled scene . 
The appearance of the latter could not be more than the surprise of the moment . 
It was impossible for her to have forgotten to feel that this arrival of their common friends must be soon bringing them together again . 
He did not seem to want to be near enough for conversation . 
We are not boy and girl , to be captiously irritable , misled by every moment's inadvertence , and wantonly playing with our own happiness . 
Anne , cried Mary , still at her window , there is Mrs Clay , I am sure , standing under the colonnade , and a gentleman with her . 
I saw them turn the corner from Bath Street just now . 
They seemed deep in talk . 
Who is it ? Come , and tell me . 
Good heavens ! I recollect . 
It is Mr Elliot himself . 
No , cried Anne , quickly , it cannot be Mr Elliot , I assure you . 
He was to leave Bath at nine this morning , and does not come back till to morrow . 
Her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors , as if they believed themselves quite in the secret . 
It was evident that the report concerning her had spread , and a short pause succeeded , which seemed to ensure that it would now spread farther . 
Do come , Anne cried Mary , come and look yourself . 
You will be too late if you do not make haste . 
They are parting they are shaking hands . 
Not know Mr Elliot , indeed ! You seem to have forgot all about Lyme . 
To pacify Mary , and perhaps screen her own embarrassment , Anne did move quietly to the window . 
I have been to the theatre , and secured a box for to morrow night . 
A'n't I a good boy ? I know you love a play and there is room for us all . 
I have engaged Captain Wentworth . 
Anne will not be sorry to join us , I am sure . 
We all like a play . 
Your father might have asked us to dinner , I think , if he had wanted to see us . 
You may do as you like , but I shall go to the play . 
Oh ! Charles , I declare it will be too abominable if you do , when you promised to go . 
No , I did not promise . 
I only smirked and bowed , and said the word happy . 
But you must go , Charles . 
It would be unpardonable to fail . 
We were asked on purpose to be introduced . 
There was always such a great connexion between the Dalrymples and ourselves . 
Nothing ever happened on either side that was not announced immediately . 
We are quite near relations , you know and Mr Elliot too , whom you ought so particularly to be acquainted with ! Every attention is due to Mr Elliot . 
Consider , my father's heir the future representative of the family . 
Don't talk to me about heirs and representatives , cried Charles . 
I am not one of those who neglect the reigning power to bow to the rising sun . 
If I would not go for the sake of your father , I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir . 
We had better put it off . 
Charles , you had much better go back and change the box for Tuesday . 
I have no pleasure in the sort of meeting , and should be too happy to change it for a play , and with you . 
But , it had better not be attempted , perhaps . 
She had spoken it but she trembled when it was done , conscious that her words were listened to , and daring not even to try to observe their effect . 
You have not been long enough in Bath , said he , to enjoy the evening parties of the place . 
The usual character of them has nothing for me . 
I am no card player . 
You were not formerly , I know . 
You did not use to like cards but time makes many changes . 
I am not yet so much changed , cried Anne , and stopped , fearing she hardly knew what misconstruction . 
They were obliged to move . 
Their preparations , however , were stopped short . 
Alarming sounds were heard other visitors approached , and the door was thrown open for Sir Walter and Miss Elliot , whose entrance seemed to give a general chill . 
Anne felt an instant oppression , and wherever she looked saw symptoms of the same . 
How mortifying to feel that it was so ! Her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular . 
Captain Wentworth was acknowledged again by each , by Elizabeth more graciously than before . 
She even addressed him once , and looked at him more than once . 
Elizabeth was , in fact , revolving a great measure . 
After the waste of a few minutes in saying the proper nothings , she began to give the invitation which was to comprise all the remaining dues of the Musgroves . 
To morrow evening , to meet a few friends no formal party . 
The truth was , that Elizabeth had been long enough in Bath to understand the importance of a man of such an air and appearance as his . 
The present was that Captain Wentworth would move about well in her drawing room . 
The card was pointedly given , and Sir Walter and Elizabeth arose and disappeared . 
The interruption had been short , though severe , and ease and animation returned to most of those they left as the door shut them out , but not to Anne . 
He held the card in his hand after they were gone , as if deeply considering it . 
Only think of Elizabeth's including everybody ! whispered Mary very audibly . 
I do not wonder Captain Wentworth is delighted ! You see he cannot put the card out of his hand . 
The gentlemen had their own pursuits , the ladies proceeded on their own business , and they met no more while Anne belonged to them . 
to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter . 
She exclaimed , however , with a very tolerable imitation of nature Oh ! dear ! very true . 
Only think , Miss Elliot , to my great surprise I met with Mr Elliot in Bath Street . 
I was never more astonished . 
He turned back and walked with me to the Pump Yard . 
He wanted to know how early he might be admitted to morrow . 
She had promised to be with the Musgroves from breakfast to dinner . 
Her faith was plighted , and Mr Elliot's character , like the Sultaness Scheherazade's head , must live another day . 
When she reached the White Hart , and made her way to the proper apartment , she found herself neither arriving quite in time , nor the first to arrive . 
There was no delay , no waste of time . 
She was deep in the happiness of such misery , or the misery of such happiness , instantly . 
Two minutes after her entering the room , Captain Wentworth said We will write the letter we were talking of , Harville , now , if you will give me materials . 
Materials were at hand , on a separate table he went to it , and nearly turning his back to them all , was engrossed by writing . 
Mrs Musgrove was giving Mrs Croft the history of her eldest daughter's engagement , and just in that inconvenient tone of voice which was perfectly audible while it pretended to be a whisper . 
Mrs Croft was attending with great good humour , and whenever she spoke at all , it was very sensibly . 
Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self occupied to hear . 
At any rate , said I , it will be better than a long engagement . 
That is precisely what I was going to observe , cried Mrs Croft . 
I would rather have young people settle on a small income at once , and have to struggle with a few difficulties together , than be involved in a long engagement . 
It is what I always protested against for my children . 
Anne found an unexpected interest here . 
She roused herself and went to him . 
The window at which he stood was at the other end of the room from where the two ladies were sitting , and though nearer to Captain Wentworth's table , not very near . 
As she joined him , Captain Harville's countenance re assumed the serious , thoughtful expression which seemed its natural character . 
Look here , said he , unfolding a parcel in his hand , and displaying a small miniature painting , do you know who that is ? Certainly Captain Benwick . 
Yes , and you may guess who it is for . 
it was not done for her . 
Miss Elliot , do you remember our walking together at Lyme , and grieving for him ? I little thought then but no matter . 
This was drawn at the Cape . 
I am not sorry , indeed , to make it over to another . 
he is writing about it now . 
That I can easily believe . 
It was not in her nature . 
It would not be the nature of any woman who truly loved . 
Captain Harville smiled , as much as to say , Do you claim that for your sex ? and she answered the question , smiling also , Yes . 
We certainly do not forget you as soon as you forget us . 
It is , perhaps , our fate rather than our merit . 
We live at home , quiet , confined , and our feelings prey upon us . 
You are forced on exertion . 
You have always a profession , pursuits , business of some sort or other , to take you back into the world immediately , and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions . 
, it does not apply to Benwick . 
He has not been forced upon any exertion . 
The peace turned him on shore at the very moment , and he has been living with us , in our little family circle , ever since . 
No , no , it is not man's nature . 
I will not allow it to be more man's nature than woman's to be inconstant and forget those they do love , or have loved . 
Your feelings may be the strongest , replied Anne , but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most tender . 
Man is more robust than woman , but he is not longer lived which exactly explains my view of the nature of their attachments . 
Nay , it would be too hard upon you , if it were otherwise . 
You have difficulties , and privations , and dangers enough to struggle with . 
You are always labouring and toiling , exposed to every risk and hardship . 
Your home , country , friends , all quitted . 
Neither time , nor health , nor life , to be called your own . 
, if woman's feelings were to be added to all this . 
We shall never agree upon this question , Captain Harville was beginning to say , when a slight noise called their attention to Captain Wentworth's hitherto perfectly quiet division of the room . 
Have you finished your letter ? said Captain Harville . 
Not quite , a few lines more . 
I shall have done in five minutes . 
There is no hurry on my side . 
I am only ready whenever you are . 
well supplied , and want for nothing . 
No hurry for a signal at all . 
as I was saying we shall never agree , I suppose , upon this point . 
No man and woman , would , probably . 
But let me observe that all histories are against you all stories , prose and verse . 
Songs and proverbs , all talk of woman's fickleness . 
But perhaps you will say , these were all written by men . 
Yes , yes , if you please , no reference to examples in books . 
Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story . 
Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree the pen has been in their hands . 
I will not allow books to prove anything . 
But how shall we prove anything ? We never shall . 
We never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point . 
It is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof . 
may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence , or in some respect saying what should not be said . 
Oh ! cried Anne eagerly , I hope I do justice to all that is felt by you , and by those who resemble you . 
No , I believe you capable of everything great and good in your married lives . 
I believe you equal to every important exertion , and to every domestic forbearance , so long as if I may be allowed the expression so long as you have an object . 
I mean while the woman you love lives , and lives for you . 
, is that of loving longest , when existence or when hope is gone . 
She could not immediately have uttered another sentence her heart was too full , her breath too much oppressed . 
You are a good soul , cried Captain Harville , putting his hand on her arm , quite affectionately . 
There is no quarreling with you . 
And when I think of Benwick , my tongue is tied . 
Their attention was called towards the others . 
Mrs Croft was taking leave . 
Here , Frederick , you and I part company , I believe , said she . 
I am going home , and you have an engagement with your friend . 
I know you will not be sorry to be off . 
I shall be at your service in half a minute . 
Anne know not how to understand it . 
The letter , with a direction hardly legible , to Miss A. E. , was evidently the one which he had been folding so hastily . 
While supposed to be writing only to Captain Benwick , he had been also addressing her ! On the contents of that letter depended all which this world could do for her . 
Anything was possible , anything might be defied rather than suspense . 
I must speak to you by such means as are within my reach . 
I am half agony , half hope . 
Tell me not that I am too late , that such precious feelings are gone for ever . 
I offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it , eight years and a half ago . 
Dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman , that his love has an earlier death . 
I have loved none but you . 
Unjust I may have been , weak and resentful I have been , but never inconstant . 
You alone have brought me to Bath . 
For you alone , I think and plan . 
I am every instant hearing something which overpowers me . 
You sink your voice , but I can distinguish the tones of that voice when they would be lost on others . 
Too good , too excellent creature ! You do us justice , indeed . 
You do believe that there is true attachment and constancy among men . 
A word , a look , will be enough to decide whether I enter your father's house this evening or never . 
Such a letter was not to be soon recovered from . 
Every moment rather brought fresh agitation . 
And before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation , Charles , Mary , and Henrietta all came in . 
The absolute necessity of seeming like herself produced then an immediate struggle but after a while she could do no more . 
She began not to understand a word they said , and was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself . 
They could then see that she looked very ill , were shocked and concerned , and would not stir without her for the world . 
By all means , my dear , cried Mrs Musgrove , go home directly , and take care of yourself , that you may be fit for the evening . 
I wish Sarah was here to doctor you , but I am no doctor myself . 
Charles , ring and order a chair . 
But the chair would never do . 
Anxious to omit no possible precaution , Anne struggled , and said I am afraid , ma'am , that it is not perfectly understood . 
Pray be so good as to mention to the other gentlemen that we hope to see your whole party this evening . 
I am afraid there had been some mistake and I wish you particularly to assure Captain Harville and Captain Wentworth , that we hope to see them both . 
Oh ! my dear , it is quite understood , I give you my word . 
Captain Harville has no thought but of going . 
Do you think so ? But I am afraid and I should be so very sorry . 
Will you promise me to mention it , when you see them again ? You will see them both this morning , I dare say . 
To be sure I will , if you wish it . 
Charles , if you see Captain Harville anywhere , remember to give Miss Anne's message . 
But indeed , my dear , you need not be uneasy . 
Captain Harville holds himself quite engaged , I'll answer for it and Captain Wentworth the same , I dare say . 
Anne could do no more but her heart prophesied some mischance to damp the perfection of her felicity . 
It could not be very lasting , however . 
Even if he did not come to Camden Place himself , it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville . 
Charles , in his real concern and good nature , would go home with her there was no preventing him . 
They were on Union Street , when a quicker step behind , a something of familiar sound , gave her two moments' preparation for the sight of Captain Wentworth . 
He joined them but , as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on , said nothing , only looked . 
Anne could command herself enough to receive that look , and not repulsively . 
The cheeks which had been pale now glowed , and the movements which had hesitated were decided . 
He walked by her side . 
She is rather done for this morning , and must not go so far without help , and I ought to be at that fellow's in the Market Place . 
By his description , a good deal like the second size double barrel of mine , which you shot with one day round Winthrop . 
There could not be an objection . 
There could be only the most proper alacrity , a most obliging compliance for public view and smiles reined in and spirits dancing in private rapture . 
There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything , but which had been followed by so many , many years of division and estrangement . 
All the little variations of the last week were gone through and of yesterday and today there could scarcely be an end . 
She had not mistaken him . 
Jealousy of Mr Elliot had been the retarding weight , the doubt , the torment . 
Of what he had then written , nothing was to be retracted or qualified . 
He persisted in having loved none but her . 
She had never been supplanted . 
He never even believed himself to see her equal . 
Thus much indeed he was obliged to acknowledge that he had been constant unconsciously , nay unintentionally that he had meant to forget her , and believed it to be done . 
He had imagined himself indifferent , when he had only been angry and he had been unjust to her merits , because he had been a sufferer from them . 
At Lyme , he had received lessons of more than one sort . 
The passing admiration of Mr Elliot had at least roused him , and the scenes on the Cobb and at Captain Harville's had fixed her superiority . 
There , he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self will , between the darings of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind . 
From that period his penance had become severe . 
I found , said he , that I was considered by Harville an engaged man ! That neither Harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment . 
I was startled and shocked . 
I was hers in honour if she wished it . 
I had not thought seriously on this subject before . 
I had been grossly wrong , and must abide the consequences . 
It determined him to leave Lyme , and await her complete recovery elsewhere . 
I was six weeks with Edward , said he , and saw him happy . 
I could have no other pleasure . 
He enquired after you very particularly asked even if you were personally altered , little suspecting that to my eye you could never alter . 
Anne smiled , and let it pass . 
It was too pleasing a blunder for a reproach . 
Here , said he , ended the worst of my state for now I could at least put myself in the way of happiness I could exert myself I could do something . 
But to be waiting so long in inaction , and waiting only for evil , had been dreadful . 
Within the first five minutes I said , I will be at Bath on Wednesday , and I was . 
Was it unpardonable to think it worth my while to come ? and to arrive with some degree of hope ? You were single . 
It was possible that you might retain the feelings of the past , as I did and one encouragement happened to be mine . 
That evening seemed to be made up of exquisite moments . 
You should not have suspected me now the case is so different , and my age is so different . 
If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety , not of risk . 
When I yielded , I thought it was to duty , but no duty could be called in aid here . 
In marrying a man indifferent to me , all risk would have been incurred , and all duty violated . 
Perhaps I ought to have reasoned thus , he replied , but I could not . 
I could not derive benefit from the late knowledge I had acquired of your character . 
I could not bring it into play it was overwhelmed , buried , lost in those earlier feelings which I had been smarting under year after year . 
I could think of you only as one who had yielded , who had given me up , who had been influenced by any one rather than by me . 
I saw you with the very person who had guided you in that year of misery . 
I had no reason to believe her of less authority now . 
The force of habit was to be added . 
I should have thought , said Anne , that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this . 
No , no ! your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give . 
I left you in this belief and yet , I was determined to see you again . 
My spirits rallied with the morning , and I felt that I had still a motive for remaining here . 
At last Anne was at home again , and happier than any one in that house could have conceived . 
The evening came , the drawing rooms were lighted up , the company assembled . 
Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for , she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her . 
Mr Elliot was there she avoided , but she could pity him . 
The Wallises , she had amusement in understanding them . 
Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret they would soon be innoxious cousins to her . 
She cared not for Mrs Clay , and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister . 
To me , she was in the place of a parent . 
Do not mistake me , however . 
I am not saying that she did not err in her advice . 
He looked at her , looked at Lady Russell , and looking again at her , replied , as if in cool deliberation Not yet . 
But there are hopes of her being forgiven in time . 
I trust to being in charity with her soon . 
I did not understand you . 
I shut my eyes , and would not understand you , or do you justice . 
This is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself . 
Six years of separation and suffering might have been spared . 
It is a sort of pain , too , which is new to me . 
I have been used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that I enjoyed . 
I have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards . 
Like other great men under reverses , he added , with a smile . 
I must endeavour to subdue my mind to my fortune . 
I must learn to brook being happier than I deserve . 
Sir Walter made no objection , and Elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned . 
Captain Wentworth , with five and twenty thousand pounds , and as high in his profession as merit and activity could place him , was no longer nobody . 
The only one among them , whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was Lady Russell . 
This however was what Lady Russell had now to do . 
There was nothing less for Lady Russell to do , than to admit that she had been pretty completely wrong , and to take up a new set of opinions and of hopes . 
But she was a very good woman , and if her second object was to be sensible and well judging , her first was to see Anne happy . 
Of all the family , Mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance . 
It would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation , for a change is not very probable there . 
She had soon the mortification of seeing Mr Elliot withdraw , and no one of proper condition has since presented himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him . 
The news of his cousins Anne's engagement burst on Mr Elliot most unexpectedly . 
It deranged his best plan of domestic happiness , his best hope of keeping Sir Walter single by the watchfulness which a son in law's rights would have given . 
But , though discomfited and disappointed , he could still do something for his own interest and his own enjoyment . 
Mrs Clay's affections had overpowered her interest , and she had sacrificed , for the young man's sake , the possibility of scheming longer for Sir Walter . 
It cannot be doubted that Sir Walter and Elizabeth were shocked and mortified by the loss of their companion , and the discovery of their deception in her . 
There she felt her own inferiority very keenly . 
She had but two friends in the world to add to his list , Lady Russell and Mrs Smith . 
To those , however , he was very well disposed to attach himself . 
Lady Russell , in spite of all her former transgressions , he could now value from his heart . 
Her recent good offices by Anne had been enough in themselves , and their marriage , instead of depriving her of one friend , secured her two . 
She might have been absolutely rich and perfectly healthy , and yet be happy . 
Her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits , as her friend Anne's was in the warmth of her heart . 
Anne was tenderness itself , and she had the full worth of it in Captain Wentworth's affection . 
His profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less , the dread of a future war all that could dim her sunshine . 
