James Pethel By MAX BEERBOHM I WAS shocked this morning when I saw in my newspaper a paragraph announcing his sudden death . 
I do not say that the shock was very disagreeable . 
One reads a newspaper for the sake of news . 
If you learn suddenly that one of your friends is dead , you are wholly distressed . 
Seven years have passed since the day when last I saw James Pethel , and that day was the morrow of my first meeting with him . 
I had formed the habit of spending August in Dieppe . 
The place was then less overrun by trippers than it is now . 
Some pleasant English people shared it with some pleasant French people . 
We used rather to resent the race week the third week of the month as an intrusion on our privacy . 
We sneered as we read in the Paris edition of The New York Herald the names of the intruders , though by some of these we were secretly impressed . 
We disliked the nightly crush in the baccarat room of the casino , and the croupiers' obvious excitement at the high play . 
Most of the men , by some subtle stress of their ruling passion , have grown so monstrously fat , and most of the women so harrowingly thin . 
The rest of the women seem to be marked out for apoplexy , and the rest of the men to be wasting away . 
One feels that anything thrown at them would be either embedded or shattered , and looks vainly among them for one person furnished with a normal amount of flesh . 
It was on such an evening that I first saw the man whose memory I here celebrate . 
My gaze was held by him for the very reason that he would have passed unnoticed elsewhere . 
He was conspicuous not in virtue of the mere fact that he was taking the bank at the principal table , but because there was nothing at all odd about him . 
He alone , among his fellow players , looked as if he were not to die before the year was out . 
Of him alone I said to myself that he was destined to die normally at a ripe old age . 
But now , as I stood opposite to him , behind the croupier , I was refreshed by my sense of his wholesome durability . 
Everything about him , except the amount of money he had been winning , seemed moderate . 
And his eyes had neither the unnatural brightness nor the unnatural dullness of the eyes about him they were ordinarily clear eyes , of an ordinary gray . 
His very age was moderate a putative thirty six , not more . 
He assumed no air of nonchalance . 
He did not deal out the cards as though they bored him , but he had no look of grim concentration . 
And this constant pursing of his lips seemed to denote just a pensive interest . 
His bank was nearly done now there were only a few cards left . 
Happy banker ! How easily had he won in a few minutes more than I , with utmost pains , could win in many months ! I wished I were he . 
His lucre seemed to insult me personally . 
I disliked him , and yet I hoped he would not take another bank . 
I hoped he would have the good sense to pocket his winnings and go home . 
Deliberately to risk the loss of all those riches would intensify the insult to me . 
Messieurs , la banque est aux encheres . 
There was some brisk bidding while the croupier tore open and shuffled two new packs . 
But it was as I feared the gentleman whom I resented kept his place . 
Messieurs , la banque est faite . 
Quinze mille francs a la banque . 
Messieurs , les cartes passent . 
Messieurs , les cartes passent . 
Turning to go , I encountered a friend , one of the race weekers , but in a sense a friend . 
Going to play ? I asked . 
Not while Jimmy Pethel's taking the bank , he answered , with a laugh . 
Is that the man's name ? Yes . 
Don't you know him ? I thought every one knew old Jimmy Pethel . 
I asked what there was so wonderful about old Jimmy Pethel that every one should be supposed to know him . 
Oh , he's a great character . 
I do not think my friend was versed in the pretty theory that good luck is the subconscious wisdom of them who in previous incarnations have been consciously wise . 
He was a member of the stock exchange , and I smiled as at a certain quaintness in his remark . 
I asked in what ways besides luck the great character was manifested . 
Oh , well , Pethel had made a huge scoop on the stock exchange when he was only twenty three , and very soon had doubled that and doubled it again then retired . 
Great steeple chaser , too . 
Had a big place there . 
Hunted five times a week . 
Still did an occasional flutter , though . 
Cleared eighty thousand in Mexicans last February . 
Wife had been a barmaid at Cambridge married her when he was nineteen . 
Thing seemed to have turned out quite well . 
Altogether , a great character . 
Possibly , thought I. But my cursory friend , accustomed to quick transactions and to things accepted on the nod , had not proved his case to my slower , more literary intelligence . 
It was to him , though , that I owed , some minutes later , a chance of testing his opinion . 
At the cry of Messieurs , la banque est aux encheres , we looked round and saw that the subject of our talk was preparing to rise from his place . 
, and turned to the bureau at which counters are for sale . 
If old Jimmy Pethel punts , he added , I shall just follow his luck . 
But this lode star was not to be . 
While my friend was buying his counters , and I was wondering whether I , too , could buy some , Pethel himself came up to the bureau . 
With his lips no longer pursed , he had lost his air of gravity , and looked younger . 
Behind him was an attendant bearing a big wooden bowl that plain , but romantic , bowl supplied by the establishment to a banker whose gains are too great to be pocketed . 
He and Grierson greeted each other . 
He said he had arrived in Dieppe this afternoon , was here for a day or two . 
He spoke to me with empressement , saying he was a very great admirer of my work . 
I no longer disliked him . 
Grierson , armed with counters , had now darted away to secure a place that had just been vacated . 
Pethel , with a wave of his hand toward the tables , said I suppose you never condescend to this sort of thing . 
Awful waste of time , he admitted . 
I glanced down at the splendid mess of counters and gold and notes that were now becoming , under the swift fingers of the little man at the bureau , an orderly array . 
I did not say aloud that it pleased me to be , and to be seen , talking on terms of equality to a man who had won so much . 
I did but say , again indulgently , that I supposed baccarat to be as good a way of wasting time as another . 
Ah , but you despise us all the same . 
He added that he always envied men who had resources within themselves . 
I laughed lightly , to imply that it WAS very pleasant to have such resources , but that I didn't want to boast . 
Pethel took it in the most compendious form , and crumpled it into his pocket . 
I asked if he were going to play any more to night . 
Oh , later on , he said . 
I want to get a little sea air into my lungs now . 
He asked , with a sort of breezy diffidence , if I would go with him . 
I was glad to do so . 
But I must not raise false hopes in my reader . 
Nothing of the sort happened . 
Nothing of that sort ever does happen . 
We were not long on the terrace . 
Against that wind acquaintance could make no headway . 
There had been a point in our walk , or our stagger , when we paused to lean over the parapet , looking down at the black and driven sea . 
And Pethel had shouted that it would be great fun to be out in a sailing boat to night , and that at one time he had been very fond of sailing . 
I protested that I was the host , a position which he , with the quick courtesy of the very rich , yielded to me at once . 
I feared he would ask for champagne , and was gladdened by his demand for water . 
Galmier , or what ? I asked . 
I ventured to warn him that such water was never safe in these places . 
He said he had often heard that , but would risk it . 
I remonstrated , but he was firm . 
Alors , I told the waiter , pour Monsieur un verre de l'eau fraiche , et pour moi un demi blonde . 
Pethel asked me to tell him who every one was . 
I told him no one was any one in particular , and suggested that we should talk about ourselves . 
You mean , he laughed , that you want to know who the devil I am ? I assured him that I had often heard of him . 
At this he was unaffectedly pleased . 
But , I added , it's always more interesting to hear a man talked about by himself . 
And indeed , since he had NOT handed his winnings over to me , I did hope he would at any rate give me some glimpses into that great character of his . 
Full though his life had been , he seemed but like a rather clever schoolboy out on a holiday . 
I wanted to know more . 
That beer looks good , he admitted when the waiter came back . 
I never , he then said , touch alcohol of any sort . 
It it takes the edge off . 
His tone did make me suspicious . 
For a moment I wondered whether he had married the barmaid rather for what she symbolized than for what in herself she was . 
But no , surely not he had been only nineteen years old . 
Nor in any way had he now , this steady , brisk , clear eyed fellow , the aspect of one who had since fallen . 
The edge off the excitement ? I asked . 
Of course that sort of excitement seems awfully stupid to YOU but no use denying it I do like a bit of a flutter , just occasionally , you know . 
And one has to be in trim for it . 
Suppose a man sat down dead drunk to a game of chance , what fun would it be for him ? None . 
And it's only a question of degree . 
Soothe yourself ever so little with alcohol , and you don't get QUITE the full sensation of gambling . 
You do lose just a little something of the proper tremors before a coup , the proper throes during a coup , the proper thrill of joy or anguish after a coup . 
You're bound to , you know , he added , purposely making this bathos when he saw me smiling at the heights to which he had risen . 
And to night , I asked , remembering his prosaically pensive demeanor in taking the bank , were you feeling these throes and thrills to the utmost ? He nodded . 
And you'll feel them again to night ? I hope so . 
I wonder you can stay away . 
Oh , one gets a bit deadened after an hour or so . 
One needs to be freshened up . 
So long as I don't bore you I laughed , and held out my cigarette case . 
I rather wonder you smoke , I murmured , after giving him a light . 
Nicotine's a sort of drug . 
Doesn't it soothe you ? Don't you lose just a little something of the tremors and things ? He looked at me gravely . 
By Jove ! he ejaculated , I never thought of that . 
'Pon my word , I must think that over . 
I wondered whether he were secretly laughing at me . 
Here was a man to whom so I conceived , with an effort of the imagination the loss or gain of a few hundred pounds could hardly matter . 
I told him I had spoken in jest . 
To give up tobacco might , I said , intensify the pleasant agonies of a gambler staking his little all . 
But in your case well , I don't see where the pleasant agonies come in . 
You mean because I'm beastly rich ? Rich , I amended . 
All depends on what you call rich . 
Besides , I'm not the sort of fellow who's content with three per cent . 
A couple of months ago I tell you this in confidence I risked virtually all I had in an Argentine deal . 
And lost it ? No as a matter of fact , I made rather a good thing out of it . 
I did rather well last February , too . 
But there's no knowing the future . 
My sympathy lagged , and I stuck to the point of my inquiry . 
I've often wondered at that myself . 
I suppose , he puzzled it out , I do a good lot of make believe . 
While I'm playing a game like this game to night , I IMAGINE the stakes are huge . 
And I IMAGINE I haven't another penny in the world . 
Ah , so that with you it's always a life and death affair ? He looked away . 
Oh , no , I don't say that . 
Stupid phrase , I admitted . 
But there was yet one point I would put to him if you have extraordinary luck always There's no such thing as luck . 
No , strictly , I suppose , there isn't . 
But if in point of fact you always do win , then well , surely , perfect luck driveth out fear . 
Who ever said I always won ? he asked sharply . 
I waved my hands and said , Oh , you have the reputation , you know , for extraordinary luck . 
That isn't the same thing as always winning . 
Besides , I HAVEN'T extraordinary luck , never HAVE had . 
Oh , baccarat be blowed ! I wasn't thinking of baccarat . 
I was thinking of oh , lots of things baccarat included , yes . 
What things ? I ventured to ask . 
What things ? He pushed back his chair . 
Look here , he said with a laugh , don't pretend I haven't been boring your head off with all this talk about myself . 
Shall I see you to morrow ? Perhaps you'd lunch with us to morrow ? It would be a great pleasure for my wife . 
We're at the Grand Hotel . 
I said I should be most happy , and called the waiter at sight of whom my friend said he had talked himself thirsty , and asked for another glass of water . 
was very keen on motoring , and they were all three starting the day after to morrow on a little tour through France . 
Afterward they were going on to Switzerland for some climbing . 
Did I care about motoring ? If so , we might go for a spin after luncheon , to Rouen or somewhere . 
He drank his glass of water , and , linking a friendly arm in mine , passed out with me into the corridor . 
This remark , though of course I pretended to be pleased by it , irritated me very much . 
It was destined , as you shall see , to irritate me very much more in recollection . 
Yet I was glad he had asked me to luncheon glad because I liked him and glad because I dislike mysteries . 
I assured myself , as I walked home , that if veil there was , I should to morrow find an eyelet . 
His , thought I , was a face which , for all its animation , would tell nothing nothing , at any rate , that mattered . 
It expressed well enough that he was pleased to see me but for the rest I was reminded that it had a sort of frank inscrutability . 
, even if it had leave to , betray connection with a great character . 
It was a strong face , certainly but so are yours and mine . 
, but in the end well , he had won it all back and a bit more . 
By the way , he murmured as we were about to enter the hall , don't ever happen to mention to my wife what I told you about that Argentine deal . 
She's always rather nervous about investments . 
I don't tell her about them . 
She's rather a nervous woman altogether , I'm sorry to say . 
This did not square with my preconception of her . 
Only after a rapid mental calculation could I account for her . 
I must warn you , she's in a great rage this morning , said her father . 
Do try to soothe her . 
She blushed , laughed , and bade her father not be so silly . 
I asked her the cause of her great rage . 
She said He only means I was disappointed . 
And he was just as disappointed as I was . 
WEREN'T you , now , Father ? I suppose they meant well , Peggy , he laughed . 
They were QUITE right , said Mrs. Pethel , evidently not for the first time . 
They , as I presently learned , were the authorities of the bathing establishment . 
Pethel had promised his daughter he would take her for a swim but on their arrival at the bathing cabins they were ruthlessly told that bathing was defendu a cause du mauvais temps . 
This embargo was our theme as we sat down to luncheon . 
Miss Peggy was of opinion that the French were cowards . 
I pleaded for them that even in English watering places bathing was forbidden when the sea was VERY rough . 
She did not admit that the sea was very rough to day . 
They were QUITE right , said Mrs. Pethel again . 
Yes , but , darling Mother , you can't swim . 
Father and I are both splendid swimmers . 
To gloss over the mother's disability , I looked brightly at Pethel , as though in ardent recognition of his prowess among waves . 
With a movement of his head he indicated his daughter indicated that there was no one like her in the whole world . 
Indeed , I did think her rather nice . 
, one couldn't help liking the daughter , the two were so absurdly alike . 
, the effect , if you cared to be fantastic , was that of a very vain man before a mirror . 
It might have occurred to me that , if there was any mystery in him , I could solve it through her . 
But , in point of fact , I had forgotten all about that possible mystery . 
The amateur detective was lost in the sympathetic observer of a father's love . 
That Pethel did love his daughter I have never doubted . 
One passion is not less true because another predominates . 
No one who ever saw that father with that daughter could doubt that he loved her intensely . 
And this intensity gages for me the strength of what else was in him . 
Mrs. Pethel's love , though less explicit , was not less evidently profound . 
But the maternal instinct is less attractive to an onlooker , because he takes it more for granted than the paternal . 
What endeared poor Mrs. Pethel to me was well , the inevitability of the epithet I give her . 
She seemed , poor thing , so essentially out of it and by it is meant the glowing mutual affinity of husband and child . 
Not that she didn't , in her little way , assert herself during the meal . 
But she did so , I thought , with the knowledge that she didn't count , and never would count . 
I wondered how it was that she had , in that Cambridge bar room long ago , counted for Pethel to the extent of matrimony . 
But from any such room she seemed so utterly remote that she might well be in all respects now an utterly changed woman . 
She did preeminently look as if much had by some means been taken out of her , with no compensatory process of putting in . 
Pethel looked so very young for his age , whereas she would have had to be really old to look young for hers . 
I pitied her as one might a governess with two charges who were hopelessly out of hand . 
But a governess , I reflected , can always give notice . 
Love tied poor Mrs. Pethel fast to her present situation . 
I said to Mrs. Pethel , with more good will than truth , that I supposed she was very keen on it . 
She replied that she was . 
But , darling Mother , you aren't . 
I believe you hate it . 
You're ALWAYS asking father to go slower . 
And what IS the fun of just crawling along ? Oh , come , Peggy , we never crawl ! said her father . 
No , indeed , said her mother in a tone of which Pethel laughingly said it would put me off coming out with them this afternoon . 
I said , with an expert air to reassure Mrs. Pethel , that it wasn't fast driving , but only bad driving , that was a danger . 
There , Mother ! cried Peggy . 
It seemed to me possible that Peggy advised her father about his investments . 
I wondered whether they had yet told Mrs. Pethel of their intention to go on to Switzerland for some climbing . 
Of his secretiveness for his wife's sake I had a touching little instance after luncheon . 
We had adjourned to have coffee in front of the hotel . 
The car was already in attendance , and Peggy had darted off to make her daily inspection of it . 
Pethel had given me a cigar , and his wife presently noticed that he himself was not smoking . 
He explained to her that he thought he had smoked too much lately , and that he was going to knock it off for a while . 
Mrs. Pethel saw the smile that I could not repress . 
I explained that I was wishing I could knock off tobacco , and envying her husband's strength of character . 
She smiled , too , but wanly , with her eyes on him . 
Nobody has so much strength of character as he has , she said . 
I'm the weakest of men . 
Yes , she said quietly that's true , too , James . 
Again he laughed , but he flushed . 
I saw that Mrs. Pethel also had faintly flushed , and I became horribly aware of following suit . 
Pethel looked at his wife , who looked at me and rather strangely asked if I was sure I wanted to go with them . 
I protested that of course I did . 
Pethel asked her if SHE really wanted to come . 
You see , dear , there was the run yesterday from Calais . 
And to morrow you'll be on the road again , and all the days after . 
Yes , said Peggy I'm SURE you'd much rather stay at home , darling Mother , and have a good rest . 
Shall we go and put on our things , Peggy ? replied Mrs. Pethel , rising from her chair . 
She asked her husband whether he was taking the chauffeur with him . 
He said he thought not . 
Oh , hurrah ! cried Peggy . 
Then I can be on the front seat ! No , dear , said her mother . 
I am sure Mr. Beerbohms would like to be on the front seat . 
You'd like to be with mother , wouldn't you ? the girl appealed . 
I replied with all possible emphasis that I should like to be with Mrs. Pethel . 
But presently , when the mother and daughter reappeared in the guise of motorists , it became clear that my aspiration had been set aside . 
I am to be with mother , said Peggy . 
I was inwardly glad that Mrs. Pethel could , after all , assert herself to some purpose . 
And of course I did not expect her to prefer my life to her daughter's . 
Poor lady ! My heart was with her . 
For me the sight of his clear , firm profile was an assurance in itself . 
I looked round to nod and smile cheerfully at his wife . 
She always returned the nod , but left the smile to be returned by the daughter . 
Pethel , like the good driver he was , did not talk just drove . 
But as we came out on to the Rouen road he did say that in France he always rather missed the British police traps . 
Not , he added , that I've ever fallen into one . 
However , I dismissed it from my mind . 
The other names in this memoir are , for good reason , pseudonyms . 
I presently felt that this landscape was not , after all , doing itself full justice . 
But after a while , little by little , the landscape lost patience , forgot its good manners , and flew faster and faster than before . 
The road rushed furiously beneath us , like a river in spate . 
Avenues of poplars flashed past us , every tree of them on each side hissing and swishing angrily in the draft we made . 
Motors going Rouen ward seemed to be past as quickly as motors that bore down on us . 
lasted though all was well . 
Loath to betray fear , I hadn't turned my face to Pethel . 
Eyes front ! And how about that wagon ahead , huge hay wagon plodding with its back to us , seeming to occupy whole road ? Surely Pethel would slacken , hoot . 
No. Imagine a needle threaded with one swift gesture from afar . 
Now indeed I had turned my eyes on Pethel's profile and my eyes saw there that which stilled , with a greater emotion , all fear and wonder in me . 
I understood him , and for an instant this sufficed me . 
Here , as there , and , oh , ever so much better here than there ! he could gratify the passion that was in him . 
No need of any make believe here . 
I remembered the queer look he had given when I asked if his gambling were always a life and death affair . 
Here was the real thing , the authentic game , for the highest stakes . 
And here was I , a little extra stake tossed on to the board . 
He had vowed I had it in me to do something big . 
Perhaps , though , there had been a touch of make believe about that . 
I am afraid it was not before my thought about myself that my moral sense began to operate and my hatred of Pethel set in . 
Put it to my credit that I did see myself as a mere detail in his villainy . 
You deprecate the word villainy ? Understand all , forgive all ? No doubt . 
But between the acts of understanding and forgiving an interval may sometimes be condoned . 
Condone it in this instance . 
life by field and flood . 
I gave him due credit , too , for his devotion to his daughter . 
But his use of that devotion , his cold use of it to secure for himself the utmost thrill of hazard , did seem utterly abominable to me . 
And it was even more for the mother than for the daughter that I was incensed . 
That daughter did not know him , did but innocently share his damnable love of chances but that wife had for years known him at least as well as I knew him now . 
Here again I gave him credit for wishing , though he didn't love her , to spare her what he could . 
That he didn't love her I presumed from his indubitable willingness not to stake her in this afternoon's game . 
That he never had loved her had taken her in his precocious youth simply as a gigantic chance against him , was likely enough . 
So much the more credit to him for such consideration as he showed her , though this was little enough . 
He could wish to save her from being a looker on at his game , but he could he couldn't not go on playing . 
Assuredly she was right in deeming him at once the strongest and the weakest of men . 
Stone of a very pretty young person in a Gainsborough hat , seated beneath an ancestral elm , looking as though she were about to cry , and entitled A Gambler's Wife . 
Mrs. Pethel was not like that . 
Of her there were no engravings for undergraduate hearts to melt at . 
But there was one man , certainly , whose compassion was very much at her service . 
How was he going to help her ? I know not how many hair's breadth escapes we may have had while these thoughts passed through my brain . 
I had closed my eyes . 
So preoccupied was I that but for the constant rush of air against my face I might , for aught I knew , have been sitting ensconced in an armchair at home . 
After a while I was aware that this rush had abated I opened my eyes to the old familiar streets of Rouen . 
We were to have tea at the Hotel d'Angleterre . 
Otherwise , I shall expose you to the world . 
as he asked me to explain . 
And after ? He would laugh in my face . 
He would advise me not to go motoring any more . 
He might even warn me not to go back to Dieppe in one of those dangerous railway trains . 
He might even urge me to wait until a nice Bath chair had been sent out for me from England . 
saying brightly , Well , here we are ! I helped the ladies to descend . 
Pethel refused that stimulant and had a glass of water . 
I had a liqueur brandy . 
It was evident to me that tea meant much to Mrs. Pethel . 
She looked stronger after her second cup , and younger after her third . 
Still , it was my duty to help her if I could . 
While I talked and laughed , I did not forget that . 
But what on earth was I to do ? I am no hero . 
I hate to be ridiculous . 
I am inveterately averse to any sort of fuss . 
Besides , how was I to be sure that my own personal dread of the return journey hadn't something to do with my intention of tackling Pethel ? I rather thought it had . 
What this woman would dare daily because she was a mother could not I dare once ? I reminded myself of this man's reputation for invariable luck . 
I reminded myself that he was an extraordinarily skilful driver . 
To that skill and luck I would pin my faith . 
What I seem to myself , do you ask of me ? But I answered your question a few lines back . 
Enough that my faith was rewarded we did arrive safely in Dieppe . 
I still marvel that we did . 
That evening , in the vestibule of the casino , Grierson came up to me . 
Seen Jimmy Pethel ? he asked . 
He was asking for you . 
Wants to see you particularly . 
He's in the baccarat room , punting , winning hand over fist , OF course . 
Said he'd seldom met a man he liked more than you . 
Great character , what ? One is always glad to be liked , and I pleaded guilty to a moment's gratification at the announcement that Pethel liked me . 
But I did not go and seek him in the baccarat room . 
I prefer not to associate . 
Why he had particularly wanted to see me was made clear in a note sent by him to my room early next morning . 
He wondered if I could be induced to join them in their little tour . 
He hoped I wouldn't think it great cheek , his asking me . 
He thought it might rather amuse me to come . 
It would be a very great pleasure to his wife . 
He hoped I wouldn't say no . 
Would I send a line by bearer ? They would be starting at three o'clock . 
It was not too late to tackle him even now . 
Should I go round to his hotel ? I hesitated and well , I told you at the outset that my last meeting with him was on the morrow of my first . 
authorized her husband to say she would like me to come with them . 
Else would not the thought of her , the pity of her , have haunted me , as it did for a very long time . 
I do not know whether she is still alive . 
No mention is made of her in the obituary notice which awoke these memories in me . 
This notice I will , however , transcribe , because it is , for all its crudeness of phraseology , rather interesting both as an echo and as an amplification . 
In recent years he had been much interested in aviation , and had had a private aerodrome erected on his property . 
It is not expected that an inquest will be necessary , as his physician , Dr . 
Saunders , has certified death to be due to heart disease , from which , it appears , the deceased gentleman had been suffering for many years . 
Saunders adds that he had repeatedly warned deceased that any strain on the nervous system might prove fatal . 
Thus for I presume that his ailment had its origin in his habits James Pethel did not , despite that merely pensive look of his , live his life with impunity . 
And by reason of that life he died . 
As for the manner of his death , enough that he did die . 
Let not our hearts be vexed that his great luck was with him to the end . 
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of James Pethel , by Max Beerbohm Note I have closed contractions in the text e . 
, does n't has become doesn't etc . 
