was born and died in South Berwick , Maine . 
Her father was the region's most distinguished doctor and , as a child , Jewett often accompanied him on his round of patient visits . 
She began writing poetry at an early age and when she was only her short story Mr. Bruce was accepted by the Atlantic Monthly . 
, a collection of sketches published earlier in the Atlantic Monthly . 
Through her friendship with Howells , Jewett became acquainted with Boston's literary elite , including Annie Fields , with whom she developed one of the most intimate and lasting relationships of her life . 
is considered Jewett's finest work , described by Henry James as her beautiful little quantum of achievement . 
Despite James's diminutives , the novel remains a classic . 
Because it is loosely structured , many critics view the book not as a novel , but a series of sketches however , its structure is unified through both setting and theme . 
Jewett herself felt that her strengths as a writer lay not in plot development or dramatic tension , but in character development . 
Jewett died in , eight years after an accident that effectively ended her writing career . 
Her reputation had grown during her lifetime , extending far beyond the bounds of the New England she loved . 
When one really knows a village like this and its surroundings , it is like becoming acquainted with a single person . 
The process of falling in love at first sight is as final as it is swift in such a case , but the growth of true friendship may be a lifelong affair . 
One evening in June , a single passenger landed upon the steamboat wharf . 
II Mrs. Todd LATER , THERE WAS only one fault to find with this choice of a summer lodging place , and that was its complete lack of seclusion . 
If Mrs. Todd had occasion to step into the far corner of her herb plot , she trod heavily upon thyme , and made its fragrant presence known with all the rest . 
Being a very large person , her full skirts brushed and bent almost every slender stalk that her feet missed . 
At one side of this herb plot were other growths of a rustic pharmacopoeia , great treasures and rarities among the commoner herbs . 
There were some strange and pungent odors that roused a dim sense and remembrance of something in the forgotten past . 
They were dispensed to suffering neighbors , who usually came at night as if by stealth , bringing their own ancient looking vials to be filled . 
One nostrum was called the Indian remedy , and its price was but fifteen cents the whispered directions could be heard as customers passed the windows . 
The village doctor and this learned herbalist were upon the best of terms . 
For various reasons , the seclusion and uninterrupted days which had been looked forward to proved to be very rare in this otherwise delightful corner of the world . 
It was soon found that this arrangement made large allowance for Mrs. Todd's slow herb gathering progresses through woods and pastures . 
Well , dear , she said sorrowfully , I've took great advantage o' your bein' here . 
I ain't had such a season for years , but I have never had nobody I could so trust . 
All you lack is a few qualities , but with time you'd gain judgment an' experience , an' be very able in the business . 
I'd stand right here an' say it to anybody . 
Mrs. Todd and I were not separated or estranged by the change in our business relations on the contrary , a deeper intimacy seemed to begin . 
Then Mrs. Todd would feel that she must talk to somebody , and I was only too glad to listen . 
It was in this way that I came to know that she had loved one who was far above her . 
No , dear , him I speak of could never think of me , she said . 
He was above bein' a seafarin' man , an' prospered more than most he come of a high family , an' my lot was plain an' hard workin' . 
An' I've always had ways of hearin' about him . 
She stood in the centre of a braided rug , and its rings of black and gray seemed to circle about her feet in the dim light . 
Her height and massiveness in the low room gave her the look of a huge sibyl , while the strange fragrance of the mysterious herb blew in from the little garden . 
They seemed to give much from their own store of therapeutic learning . 
, was received in respectful silence . 
The way went straight uphill , and presently I stopped and turned to look back . 
The tide was in , the wide harbor was surrounded by its dark woods , and the small wooden houses stood as near as they could get to the landing . 
Mrs. Todd's was the last house on the way inland . 
The gray ledges of the rocky shore were well covered with sod in most places , and the pasture bayberry and wild roses grew thick among them . 
I could see the higher inland country and the scattered farms . 
Now and then an idle sheep came and stood for a long time looking in at the door . 
On the nights when there were evening meetings or other public exercises that demanded her presence we had tea very early , and I was welcomed back as if from a long absence . 
Once or twice I feigned excuses for staying at home , while Mrs. Todd made distant excursions , and came home late , with both hands full and a heavily laden apron . 
This was in pennyroyal time , and when the rare lobelia was in its prime and the elecampane was coming on . 
It was a walking funeral , and even at that distance I could recognize most of the mourners as they went their solemn way . 
Mrs. Begg had been very much respected , and there was a large company of friends following to her grave . 
She had been brought up on one of the neighboring farms , and each of the few times that I had seen her she professed great dissatisfaction with town life . 
The people lived too close together for her liking , at the Landing , and she could not get used to the constant sound of the sea . 
Mrs. Todd had told me all our neighbor's history . 
They had been girls together , and , to use her own phrase , had both seen trouble till they knew the best and worst on 't . 
I could see the sorrowful , large figure of Mrs. Todd as I stood at the window . 
She made a break in the procession by walking slowly and keeping the after part of it back . 
She held a handkerchief to her eyes , and I knew , with a pang of sympathy , that hers was not affected grief . 
Beside her , after much difficulty , I recognized the one strange and unrelated person in all the company , an old man who had always been mysterious to me . 
I could see his thin , bending figure . 
He wore a narrow , long tailed coat and walked with a stick , and had the same cant to leeward as the wind bent trees on the height above . 
This was Captain Littlepage , whom I had seen only once or twice before , sitting pale and old behind a closed window never out of doors until now . 
Mrs. Todd always shook her head gravely when I asked a question , and said that he wasn't what he had been once , and seemed to class him with her other secrets . 
I could see that she was trying to keep pace with the old captain's lighter steps . 
He looked like an aged grasshopper of some strange human variety . 
She was usually called that Mari' Harris in subdued conversation between intimates , but they treated her with anxious civility when they met her face to face . 
It was a glorious day early in July , with a clear , high sky there were no clouds , there was no noise of the sea . 
The song sparrows sang and sang , as if with joyous knowledge of immortality , and contempt for those who could so pettily concern themselves with death . 
I stood watching until the funeral procession had crept round a shoulder of the slope below and disappeared from the great landscape as if it had gone into a cave . 
An hour later I was busy at my work . 
One anxious scribe felt very dull that day a sheep bell tinkled near by , and called her wandering wits after it . 
The sentences failed to catch these lovely summer cadences . 
For the first time I began to wish for a companion and for news from the outer world , which had been , half unconsciously , forgotten . 
Watching the funeral gave one a sort of pain . 
I began to wonder if I ought not to have walked with the rest , instead of hurrying away at the end of the services . 
I sighed , and turned to the half written page again . 
V Captain Littlepage IT WAS A long time after this an hour was very long in that coast town where nothing stole away the shortest minute . 
I had lost myself completely in work , when I heard footsteps outside . 
Then I looked , and saw Captain Littlepage passing the nearest window the next moment he tapped politely at the door . 
Come in , sir , I said , rising to meet him and he entered , bowing with much courtesy . 
I stepped down from the desk and offered him a chair by the window , where he seated himself at once , being sadly spent by his climb . 
I returned to my fixed seat behind the teacher's desk , which gave him the lower place of a scholar . 
You ought to have the place of honor , Captain Littlepage , I said . 
A happy , rural seat of various views , he quoted , as he gazed out into the sunshine and up the long wooded shore . 
Then he glanced at me , and looked all about him as pleased as a child . 
My quotation was from Paradise Lost the greatest of poems , I suppose you know ? and I nodded . 
There's nothing that ranks , to my mind , with Paradise Lost it's all lofty , all lofty , he continued . 
Shakespeare was a great poet he copied life , but you have to put up with a great deal of low talk . 
I could not help wondering what errand had brought him out in search of me . 
There was something quite charming in his appearance it was a face thin and delicate with refinement , but worn into appealing lines , as if he had suffered from loneliness and misapprehension . 
He sat looking at me expectantly . 
I could not help thinking that , with his queer head and length of thinness , he was made to hop along the road of life rather than to walk . 
The captain was very grave indeed , and I bade my inward spirit keep close to discretion . 
Poor Mrs. Begg has gone , I ventured to say . 
I still wore my Sunday gown by way of showing respect . 
She has gone , said the captain , very easy at the last , I was informed she slipped away as if she were glad of the opportunity . 
I thought of the Countess of Carberry , and felt that history repeated itself . 
She was one of the old stock , continued Captain Littlepage , with touching sincerity . 
She was very much looked up to in this town , and will be missed . 
I began to be very eager to know upon what errand he had come . 
It may be found out some o' these days , he said earnestly . 
We may know it all , the next step where Mrs. Begg is now , for instance . 
Certainty , not conjecture , is what we all desire . 
I suppose we shall know it all some day , said I. We shall know it while yet below , insisted the captain , with a flush of impatience on his thin cheeks . 
We have not looked for truth in the right direction . 
I know what I speak of those who have laughed at me little know how much reason my ideas are based upon . 
He waved his hand toward the village below . 
In that handful of houses they fancy that they comprehend the universe . 
I smiled , and waited for him to go on . 
I am an old man , as you can see , he continued , and I have been a shipmaster the greater part of my life , forty three years in all . 
You may not think it , but I am above eighty years of age . 
He did not look so old , and I hastened to say so . 
You must have left the sea a good many years ago , then , Captain Littlepage ? I said . 
I should have been serviceable at least five or six years more , he answered . 
My acquaintance with certain my experience upon a certain occasion , I might say , gave rise to prejudice . 
I do not mind telling you that I chanced to learn of one of the greatest discoveries that man has ever made . 
I had a valuable cargo of general merchandise from the London docks to Fort Churchill , a station of the old company on Hudson's Bay , said the captain earnestly . 
We were delayed in lading , and baffled by head winds and a heavy tumbling sea all the way north about and across . 
I owned an eighth of the vessel , and he owned a sixteenth of her . 
She was a full rigged ship , called the Minerva , but she was getting old and leaky . 
I meant it should be my last v'y'ge in her , and so it proved . 
She had been an excellent vessel in her day . 
Of the cowards aboard her I can't say so much . 
Then you were wrecked ? I asked , as he made a long pause . 
I wa'n't caught astern o' the lighter by any fault of mine , said the captain gloomily . 
The days were getting short , and we made good runs , all well on board but me , and the crew done their work by dint of hard driving . 
I began to find this unexpected narrative a little dull . 
So there we were blowin' along anyways , he complained but looking at me at this moment , and seeing that my thoughts were unkindly wandering , he ceased to speak . 
It was a hard life at sea in those days , I am sure , said I , with redoubled interest . 
It was a dog's life , said the poor old gentleman , quite reassured , but it made men of those who followed it . 
There is no occupation so fit for just that class o' men who never get beyond the fo'cas'le . 
In the old days , a good part o' the best men here knew a hundred ports and something of the way folks lived in them . 
They saw the world for themselves , and like's not their wives and children saw it with them . 
Yes , they lived more dignified , and their houses were better within an' without . 
Shipping's a terrible loss to this part o' New England from a social point o' view , ma'am . 
I have thought of that myself , I returned , with my interest quite awakened . 
A captain is not expected to be familiar with his crew , and for company's sake in dull days and nights he turns to his book . 
He was one of the smartest captains that ever sailed the seas , but they used to call the Newcastle , a great bark he commanded for many years , Tuttle's beehive . 
No , there's nothing to take the place of shipping in a place like ours . 
These bicycles offend me dreadfully they don't afford no real opportunities of experience such as a man gained on a voyage . 
No when folks left home in the old days they left it to some purpose , and when they got home they stayed there and had some pride in it . 
There's no large minded way of thinking now the worst have got to be best and rule everything we're all turned upside down and going back year by year . 
Oh no , Captain Littlepage , I hope not , said I , trying to soothe his feelings . 
There was a silence in the schoolhouse , but we could hear the noise of the water on a beach below . 
It sounded like the strange warning wave that gives notice of the turn of the tide . 
A late golden robin , with the most joyful and eager of voices , was singing close by in a thicket of wild roses . 
VI The Waiting Place HOW DID YOU manage with the rest of that rough voyage on the Minerva ? I asked . 
I shall be glad to explain to you , said Captain Littlepage , forgetting his grievances for the moment . 
If I had a map at hand I could explain better . 
We were driven to and fro 'way up toward what we used to call Parry's Discoveries , and lost our bearings . 
Our own boat upset , but the carpenter kept himself and me above water , and we drifted in . 
They were very poor themselves , and in distress 'twas a useless place . 
There were but few Esquimaux left in that region . 
There we remained for some time , and I became acquainted with strange events . 
The captain lifted his head and gave me a questioning glance . 
I could not help noticing that the dulled look in his eyes had gone , and there was instead a clear intentness that made them seem dark and piercing . 
There was a supply ship expected , and the pastor , an excellent Christian man , made no doubt that we should get passage in her . 
He was hoping that orders would come to break up the station but everything was uncertain , and we got on the best we could for a while . 
We fished , and helped the people in other ways there was no other way of paying our debts . 
He was looked upon with regard , and had stood by the pastor in some troubles with the people . 
He had been on one of those English exploring parties that found one end of the road to the north pole , but never could find the other . 
'Twas dreadful dreary waitin' there we begun to think the supply steamer was lost , and my poor ship broke up and strewed herself all along the shore . 
We got to watching on the headlands my men and me knew the people were short of supplies and had to pinch themselves . 
Captain Littlepage fell into a reverie . 
Then I had the good of my reading , he explained presently . 
I had no books the pastor spoke but little English , and all his books were foreign but I used to say over all I could remember . 
The old poets little knew what comfort they could be to a man . 
I could say them over until I shed tears there was nothing beautiful to me in that place but the stars above and those passages of verse . 
Gaffett was always brooding and brooding , and talking to himself he was afraid he should never get away , and it preyed upon his mind . 
You observe that I said this crippled man Gaffett had been shipped on a voyage of discovery . 
So no other living soul had the facts , and he gave them to me . 
There is a strange sort of a country 'way up north beyond the ice , and strange folks living in it . 
Gaffett believed it was the next world to this . 
What do you mean , Captain Littlepage ? I exclaimed . 
The old man was bending forward and whispering he looked over his shoulder before he spoke the last sentence . 
To hear old Gaffett tell about it was something awful , he said , going on with his story quite steadily after the moment of excitement had passed . 
'Twas first a tale of dogs and sledges , and cold and wind and snow . 
'For God's sake , Gaffett ! said I , the first time he told me . 
But what about the town ? I asked . 
Did they get to the town ? They did , said the captain , and found inhabitants 'twas an awful condition of things . 
It appeared , as near as Gaffett could express it , like a place where there was neither living nor dead . 
They couldn't see the town when they were ashore . 
Then there came a day , said Captain Littlepage , leaning toward me with a strange look in his eyes , and whispering quickly . 
Those folks , or whatever they were , come about 'em like bats all at once they raised incessant armies , and come as if to drive 'em back to sea . 
They stood thick at the edge o' the water like the ridges o' grim war no thought o' flight , none of retreat . 
Sometimes a standing fight , then soaring on main wing tormented all the air . 
Say what you might , they all believed 'twas a kind of waiting place between this world an' the next . 
The captain had sprung to his feet in his excitement , and made excited gestures , but he still whispered huskily . 
Sit down , sir , I said as quietly as I could , and he sank into his chair quite spent . 
Gaffett thought the officers were hurrying home to report and to fit out a new expedition when they were all lost . 
At the time , the men got orders not to talk over what they had seen , the old man explained presently in a more natural tone . 
Weren't they all starving , and wasn't it a mirage or something of that sort ? I ventured to ask . 
But he looked at me blankly . 
Gaffett had got so that his mind ran on nothing else , he went on . 
The ship's surgeon let fall an opinion to the captain , one day , that 'twas some condition o' the light and the magnetic currents that let them see those folks . 
'Twa'n't a right feeling part of the world , anyway they had to battle with the compass to make it serve , an' everything seemed to go wrong . 
Gaffett had worked it out in his own mind that they was all common ghosts , but the conditions were unusual favorable for seeing them . 
He was always talking about the Ge'graphical Society , but he never took proper steps , as I viewed it now , and stayed right there at the mission . 
He was a good deal crippled , and thought they'd confine him in some jail of a hospital . 
He said he was waiting to find the right men to tell , somebody bound north . 
Once in a while they stopped there to leave a mail or something . 
He had all his directions written out straight as a string to give the right ones . 
I wanted him to trust 'em to me , so I might have something to show , but he wouldn't . 
I suppose he's dead now . 
I wrote to him an' I done all I could . 
'Twill be a great exploit some o' these days . 
The old man looked away from the map as if it had vaguely troubled him , and regarded me appealingly . 
We were just speaking of and he stopped . 
I saw that he had suddenly forgotten his subject . 
There were a great many persons at the funeral , I hastened to say . 
Oh yes , the captain answered , with satisfaction . 
All showed respect who could . 
The sad circumstances had for a moment slipped my mind . 
Yes , Mrs. Begg will be very much missed . 
She was a capital manager for her husband when he was at sea . 
Oh yes , shipping is a very great loss . 
There was hardly a man of any standing who didn't interest himself in some way in navigation . 
It always gave credit to a town . 
I call it low water mark now here in Dunnet . 
Step in some afternoon , he said , as affectionately as if I were a fellow shipmaster wrecked on the lee shore of age like himself . 
I turned toward home , and presently met Mrs. Todd coming toward me with an anxious expression . 
I see you sleevin' the old gentleman down the hill , she suggested . 
I've had a very interesting afternoon with him , I answered , and her face brightened . 
Oh , then he's all right . 
I expect he got tellin' of you some o' his great narratives , she answered , looking at me shrewdly . 
Funerals always sets him goin' . 
Some o' them tales hangs together toler'ble well , she added , with a sharper look than before . 
An' he's been a great reader all his seafarin' days . 
Some thinks he overdid , and affected his head , but for a man o' his years he's amazin' now when he's at his best . 
As we looked far seaward among the outer islands , the trees seemed to march seaward still , going steadily over the heights and down to the water's edge . 
It had been growing gray and cloudy , like the first evening of autumn , and a shadow had fallen on the darkening shore . 
Mrs. Todd was looking off across the bay with a face full of affection and interest . 
The sunburst upon that outermost island made it seem like a sudden revelation of the world beyond this which some believe to be so near . 
That's where mother lives , said Mrs. Todd . 
Can't we see it plain ? I was brought up out there on Green Island . 
I know every rock an' bush on it . 
Your mother ! I exclaimed , with great interest . 
Yes , dear , cert'in I've got her yet , old's I be . 
She's one of them spry , light footed little women always was , an' light hearted , too , answered Mrs. Todd , with satisfaction . 
She's seen all the trouble folks can see , without it's her last sickness an' she's got a word of courage for everybody . 
Life ain't spoilt her a mite . 
She's eighty six an' I'm sixty seven , and I've seen the time I've felt a good sight the oldest . 
'Land sakes alive ! says she , last time I was out to see her . 
The light had faded as we watched . 
Mrs. Todd had mounted a gray rock , and stood there grand and architectural , like a caryatide . 
Presently she stepped down , and we continued our way homeward . 
You an' me , we'll take a bo't an' go out some day and see mother , she promised me . 
'Twould please her very much , an' there's one or two sca'ce herbs grows better on the island than anywhere else . 
I ain't seen their like nowheres here on the main . 
Goin' to the funeral an' all , I feel to have had a very wearin' afternoon . 
I heard her going down into the cool little cellar , and then there was considerable delay . 
VIII Green Island ONE MORNING , very early , I heard Mrs. Todd in the garden outside my window . 
In a few minutes she responded to a morning voice from behind the blinds . 
I expect you're goin' up to your schoolhouse to pass all this pleasant day yes , I expect you're goin' to be dreadful busy , she said despairingly . 
I waked up early thinkin' of her . 
Yes , it's goin' to be a good day . 
Speak to the captain and the Bowden boy , if you see anybody going by toward the landing , said I. We'll take the big boat . 
Oh , my sakes ! now you let me do things my way , said Mrs. Todd scornfully . 
No , dear , we won't take no big bo't . 
I'll just git a handy dory , an' Johnny Bowden an' me , we'll man her ourselves . 
No , you let me do we'll just slip out an' see mother by ourselves . 
I guess what breakfast you'll want's about ready now . 
An hour later we pushed off from the landing in the desired dory . 
Johnny Bowden and I were both rowing in haste to get out where we could catch the breeze and put up the small sail which lay clumsily furled along the gunwale . 
Mrs. Todd sat aft , a stern and unbending lawgiver . 
You better let her drift we'll get there 'bout as quick the tide'll take her right out from under these old buildin's there's plenty wind outside . 
Your bo't ain't trimmed proper , Mis' Todd ! exclaimed a voice from shore . 
You're lo'ded so the bo't'll drag you can't git her before the wind , ma'am . 
You set 'midships , Mis' Todd , an' let the boy hold the sheet 'n' steer after he gits the sail up you won't never git out to Green Island that way . 
That you , Asa ? Good mornin' , she said politely . 
I al'ays liked the starn seat best . 
When'd you git back from up country ? This allusion to Asa's origin was not lost upon the rest of the company . 
At last we came to what she pronounced a proper haddock , and having taken him on board and ended his life resolutely , we went our way . 
As we sailed along I listened to an increasingly delightful commentary upon the islands , some of them barren rocks , or at best giving sparse pasturage for sheep in the early summer . 
The hot midsummer sun makes prisons of these small islands that are a paradise in early June , with their cool springs and short thick growing grass . 
When the news come that the war was over , one of 'em knew it a week , and never stepped across his wall to tell the other , she said . 
Each of 'em tell the neighbors their wrongs plenty likes to hear and tell again them as fetch a bone'll carry one , an' so they keep the fight a goin' . 
There were crops in the fields , which we presently distinguished from one another . 
Mrs. Todd examined them while we were still far at sea . 
Mother's late potatoes looks backward ain't had rain enough so far , she pronounced her opinion . 
They look weedier than what they call Front Street down to Cowper Centre . 
I expect brother William is so occupied with his herrin' weirs an' servin' out bait to the schooners that he don't think once a day of the land . 
What's the flag for , up above the spruces there behind the house ? I inquired , with eagerness . 
Oh , that's the sign for herrin' , she explained kindly , while Johnny Bowden regarded me with contemptuous surprise . 
There , look ! there she is mother sees us she's wavin' somethin' out o' the fore door ! She'll be to the landin' place quick's we are . 
I looked , and could see a tiny flutter in the doorway , but a quicker signal had made its way from the heart on shore to the heart on the sea . 
How do you suppose she knows it is me ? said Mrs. Todd , with a tender smile on her broad face . 
There , you never get over bein' a child long's you have a mother to go to . 
Look at the chimney , now she's gone right in an' brightened up the fire . 
Well , there , I'm glad mother's well you'll enjoy seein' her very much . 
Mrs. Todd leaned back into her proper position , and the boat trimmed again . 
There came at once a fresh gust , and we seemed to have doubled our speed . 
Soon we were near enough to see a tiny figure with handkerchiefed head come down across the field and stand waiting for us at the cove above a curve of pebble beach . 
Well , mother , here I be ! she announced with indifference but they stood and beamed in each other's faces . 
Lookin' pretty well for an old lady , ain't she ? said Mrs. Todd's mother , turning away from her daughter to speak to me . 
She was a delightful little person herself , with bright eyes and an affectionate air of expectation like a child on a holiday . 
You felt as if Mrs. Blackett were an old and dear friend before you let go her cordial hand . 
We all started together up the hill . 
Now don't you go a mite faster than we proceed with this bag an' basket . 
Johnny , there , 'll fetch up the haddock . 
I just made one stop to underrun William's trawl till I come to jes' such a fish's I thought you'd want to make one o' your nice chowders of . 
I've brought an onion with me that was layin' about on the window sill at home . 
That's just what I was wantin' , said the hostess . 
I give a sigh when you spoke o' chowder , knowin' my onions was out . 
William forgot to replenish us last time he was to the Landin' . 
Don't you haste so yourself Almiry , up this risin' ground . 
I hear you commencin' to wheeze a'ready . 
This mild revenge seemed to afford great pleasure to both giver and receiver . 
They laughed a little , and looked at each other affectionately , and then at me . 
Mrs. Todd considerately paused , and faced about to regard the wide sea view . 
I was glad to stop , being more out of breath than either of my companions , and I prolonged the halt by asking the names of the neighboring islands . 
There was a fine breeze blowing , which we felt more there on the high land than when we were running before it in the dory . 
Why , this ain't that kitten I saw when I was out last , the one that I said didn't appear likely ? exclaimed Mrs. Todd as we went our way . 
That's the one , Almiry , said her mother . 
She always had a likely look to me , an' she's right after business . 
I never see such a mouser for one of her age . 
If't wan't for William , I never should have housed that other dronin' old thing so long but he sets by her on account of her havin' a bob tail . 
I don't deem it advisable to maintain cats just on account of their havin' bob tails they're like all other curiosities , good for them that wants to see 'm twice . 
This kitten catches mice for both , an' keeps me respectable as I ain't been for a year . 
She's a real understandin' little help , this kitten is . 
I picked her from among five Miss Augusta Pernell had over to Burnt Island , said the old woman , trudging along with the kitten close at her skirts . 
Augusta , she says to me , 'Why , Mis' Blackett , you've took and homeliest and , says I , 'I've got the smartest I'm satisfied . 
I'd trust nobody sooner'n you to pick out a kitten , mother , said the daughter handsomely , and we went on in peace and harmony . 
The house was just before us now , on a green level that looked as if a huge hand had scooped it out of the long green field we had been ascending . 
A little way above , the dark , spruce woods began to climb the top of the hill and cover the seaward slopes of the island . 
There was just room for the small farm and the forest we looked down at the fish house and its rough sheds , and the weirs stretching far out into the water . 
As we looked upward , the tops of the firs came sharp against the blue sky . 
I could see the rich green of bayberry bushes here and there , where the rocks made room . 
The air was very sweet one could not help wishing to be a citizen of such a complete and tiny continent and home of fisherfolk . 
The house was broad and clean , with a roof that looked heavy on its low walls . 
It was one of the houses that seem firm rooted in the ground , as if they were two thirds below the surface , like icebergs . 
Why , mother , if you haven't gone an' turned the carpet ! she exclaimed , with something in her voice that spoke of awe and admiration . 
I done it all myself with William's help . 
He had a spare day , an' took right holt with me an' 'twas all well beat on the grass , an' turned , an' put down again afore we went to bed . 
I ripped an' sewed over two o' them long breadths . 
I ain't had such a good night's sleep for two years . 
There , what do you think o' havin' such a mother as that for eighty six year old ? said Mrs. Todd , standing before us like a large figure of Victory . 
My , my ! exclaimed Mrs. Todd . 
I couldn't ha' done it myself , I've got to own it . 
I was much pleased to have it off my mind , said Mrs. Blackett , humbly the more so because along at the first of the next week I wasn't very well . 
I suppose it may have been the change of weather . 
Mrs. Todd could not resist a significant glance at me , but , with charming sympathy , she forbore to point the lesson or to connect this illness with its apparent cause . 
She loomed larger than ever in the little old fashioned best room , with its few pieces of good furniture and pictures of national interest . 
There were empty glass lamps and crystallized bouquets of grass and some fine shells on the narrow mantelpiece . 
We stood right there between the windows , she added , and the minister stood here . 
He was always odd about seein' folks , just's he is now . 
I run to meet 'em from a child , an' William , he'd take an' run away . 
I've been the gainer , said the old mother cheerfully . 
William has been son an' daughter both since you was married off the island . 
He's been 'most too satisfied to stop at home 'long o' his old mother , but I always tell 'em I'm the gainer . 
We were all moving toward the kitchen as if by common instinct . 
The best room was too suggestive of serious occasions , and the shades were all pulled down to shut out the summer light and air . 
It was indeed a tribute to Society to find a room set apart for her behests out there on so apparently neighborless and remote an island . 
There were those of her neighbors who never had taken the trouble to furnish a best room , but Mrs. Blackett was one who knew the uses of a parlor . 
I expect Almiry , here , 'll be driftin' out 'mongst the pasture weeds quick's she can find a good excuse . 
Almiry'll want to show off everything there is . 
Then I'll get you a good cup o' tea before you start to go home . 
The days are plenty long now . 
While we were talking in the best room the selected fish had been mysteriously brought up from the shore , and lay all cleaned and ready in an earthen crock on the table . 
I think William might have just stopped an' said a word , remarked Mrs. Todd , pouting with high affront as she caught sight of it . 
He's friendly enough when he comes ashore , an' was remarkable social the last time , for him . 
He ain't disposed to be very social with the ladies , explained William's mother , with a delightful glance at me , as if she counted upon my friendship and tolerance . 
He's very particular , and he's all in his old fishin' clothes to day . 
He'll want me to tell him everything you said and done , after you've gone . 
William has very deep affections . 
He'll want to see you , Almiry . 
Yes , I guess he'll be in by an' by . 
I'll search for him by 'n' by , if he don't , proclaimed Mrs. Todd , with an air of unalterable resolution . 
I know all of his burrows down 'long the shore . 
I'll catch him by hand 'fore he knows it . 
I've got some business with William , anyway . 
I brought forty two cents with me that was due him for them last lobsters he brought in . 
You can leave it with me , suggested the little old mother , who was already stepping about among her pots and pans in the pantry , and preparing to make the chowder . 
I became possessed of a sudden unwonted curiosity in regard to William , and felt that half the pleasure of my visit would be lost if I could not make his interesting acquaintance . 
TODD HAD taken the onion out of her basket and laid it down upon the kitchen table . 
There's Johnny Bowden come with us , you know , she reminded her mother . 
He'll be hungry enough to eat his size . 
I've got new doughnuts , dear , said the little old lady . 
You don't often catch William 'n' me out o' provisions . 
I expect you might have chose a somewhat larger fish , but I'll try an' make it do . 
I shall have to have a few extra potatoes , but there's a field full out there , an' the hoe's leanin' against the well house , in 'mongst the climbin' beans . 
She smiled and gave her daughter a commanding nod . 
Land sakes alive ! Le's blow the horn for William , insisted Mrs. Todd , with some excitement . 
He needn't break his spirit so far's to come in . 
He'll know you need him for something particular , an' then we can call to him as he comes up the path . 
I won't put him to no pain . 
Mrs. Blackett's old face , for the first time , wore a look of trouble , and I found it necessary to counteract the teasing spirit of Almira . 
One corner was already dug , and I chose a fat looking hill where the tops were well withered . 
There is all the pleasure that one can have in gold digging in finding one's hopes satisfied in the riches of a good hill of potatoes . 
I was sure that Mrs. Blackett must be waiting impatiently to slice the potatoes into the chowder , layer after layer , with the fish . 
You let me take holt o' that basket , ma'am , said the pleasant , anxious voice behind me . 
It was necessary instead to pay William the respect due to age . 
I accustomed myself to plain facts on the instant , and we said good morning like old friends . 
William had been out since three o'clock , and had taken an extra fare of fish . 
Got round to comin' in , didn't you ? she inquired , with amusement . 
Well , now , that's clever . 
Didn't know's I should see you to day , William , an' I wanted to settle an account . 
I felt somewhat disturbed and responsible , but when I joined them they were on most simple and friendly terms . 
Such was the innocence and simplicity of the moment that when I heard Mrs. Todd laughing behind us in the kitchen I laughed too , but William did not even blush . 
I think he was a little deaf , and he stepped along before me most businesslike and intent upon his errand . 
We went from the upper edge of the field above the house into a smooth , brown path among the dark spruces . 
The hot sun brought out the fragrance of the pitchy bark , and the shade was pleasant as we climbed the hill . 
William stopped once or twice to show me a great wasps' nest close by , or some fishhawks' nests below in a bit of swamp . 
Through this piece of rough pasture ran a huge shape of stone like the great backbone of an enormous creature . 
It gave a sudden sense of space , for nothing stopped the eye or hedged one in , that sense of liberty in space and time which great prospects always give . 
Then he resolutely asked a blessing in words that I could not hear , and we ate the chowder and were thankful . 
Tact is after all a kind of mindreading , and my hostess held the golden gift . 
Sympathy is of the mind as well as the heart , and Mrs. Blackett's world and mine were one from the moment we met . 
Besides , she had that final , that highest gift of heaven , a perfect self forgetfulness . 
Sometimes , as I watched her eager , sweet old face , I wondered why she had been set to shine on this lonely island of the northern coast . 
It must have been to keep the balance true , and make up to all her scattered and depending neighbors for other things which they may have lacked . 
You can stop here an' rest , or you can accompany me , she announced . 
Mother ought to have her nap , and when we come back she an' William'll sing for you . 
She admires music , said Mrs. Todd , turning to speak to her mother . 
But Mrs. Blackett tried to say that she couldn't sing as she used , and perhaps William wouldn't feel like it . 
But it seemed best to go with Mrs. Todd , and off we went . 
Mrs. Todd carried the gingham bag which she had brought from home , and a small heavy burden in the bottom made it hang straight and slender from her hand . 
The way was steep , and she soon grew breathless , so that we sat down to rest awhile on a convenient large stone among the bayberry . 
There , I wanted you to see this , 'tis mother's picture , said Mrs. Todd 'twas taken once when she was up to Portland soon after she was married . 
That's me , she added , opening another worn case , and displaying the full face of the cheerful child she looked like still in spite of being past sixty . 
And here's William an' father together . 
I take after father , large and heavy , an' William is like mother's folks , short an' thin . 
He's got excellent judgment , too , meditated William's sister , but she could not arrive at any satisfactory decision upon what she evidently thought his failure in life . 
Among the grass grew such pennyroyal as the rest of the world could not provide . 
There's nothin' like it , she said oh no , there's no such pennyr'yal as this in the state of Maine . 
It's the right pattern of the plant , and all the rest I ever see is but an imitation . 
Don't it do you good ? And I answered with enthusiasm . 
There , dear , I never showed nobody else but mother where to find this place 'tis kind of sainted to me . 
I had never heard her speak of her husband before , but I felt that we were friends now since she had brought me to this place . 
'Twas but a dream with us , Mrs. Todd said . 
I knew it when he was gone . 
I knew it and she whispered as if she were at confession I knew it afore he started to go to sea . 
'Tis very strange about love . 
No , Nathan never found out , but my heart was troubled when I knew him first . 
There's more women likes to be loved than there is of those that loves . 
I spent some happy hours right here . 
I always liked Nathan , and he never knew . 
But this pennyr'yal always reminded me , as I'd sit and gather it and hear him talkin' it always would remind me of the other one . 
She looked away from me , and presently rose and went on by herself . 
There was something lonely and solitary about her great determined shape . 
She might have been Antigone alone on the Theban plain . 
It is not often given in a noisy world to come to the places of great grief and silence . 
Yes , they're all makin' towards the shore , the small craft an' the lobster smacks an' all , said my companion . 
We must spend a little time with mother now , just to have our tea , an' then put for home . 
Why , William's right on deck I didn't know's we should see any more of him ! exclaimed Mrs. Todd . 
Now mother'll put the kettle right on she's got a good fire goin' . 
XI The Old Singers WILLIAM WAS sitting on the side door step , and the old mother was busy making her tea she gave into my hand an old flowered glass tea caddy . 
William thought you'd like to see this , when he was settin' the table . 
My father brought it to my mother from the island of Tobago an' here's a pair of beautiful mugs that came with it . 
She opened the glass door of a little cupboard beside the chimney . 
These I call my best things , dear , she said . 
Mrs. Todd laughed indulgently , and looked to see what I thought of such childishness . 
I began to discover that he and his sister could not speak their deeper feelings before each other . 
Now I want you an' mother to sing , said Mrs. Todd abruptly , with an air of command , and I gave William much sympathy in his evident distress . 
After I've had my cup o' tea , dear , answered the old hostess cheerfully and so we sat down and took our cups and made merry while they lasted . 
It was impossible not to wish to stay on forever at Green Island , and I could not help saying so . 
I'm very happy here , both winter an' summer , said old Mrs. Blackett . 
But here's Almiry I always think Providence was kind to plot an' have her husband leave her a good house where she really belonged . 
She'd been very restless if she'd had to continue here on Green Island . 
The time o' sickness an' failin' has got to come to all . 
But Almiry's got an herb that's good for everything . 
She smiled as she spoke , and looked bright again . 
There's some herb that's good for everybody , except for them that thinks they're sick when they ain't , announced Mrs. Todd , with a truly professional air of finality . 
Come , William , let's have Sweet Home , an' then mother'll sing Cupid an' the Bee for us . 
Then followed a most charming surprise . 
William mastered his timidity and began to sing . 
His voice was a little faint and frail , like the family daguerreotypes , but it was a tenor voice , and perfectly true and sweet . 
Mrs. Todd kept time visibly , and sometimes audibly , with her ample foot . 
I saw the tears in her eyes sometimes , when I could see beyond the tears in mine . 
But at last the songs ended and the time came to say good by it was the end of a great pleasure . 
I went to the door of the bedroom , and thought how pleasant it looked , with its pink and white patchwork quilt and the brown unpainted paneling of its woodwork . 
Come right in , dear , she said . 
I want you to set down in my old quilted rockin' chair there by the window you'll say it's the prettiest view in the house . 
I set there a good deal to rest me and when I want to read . 
I looked up , and we understood each other without speaking . 
I shall like to think o' your settin' here to day , said Mrs. Blackett . 
I want you to come again . 
It has been so pleasant for William . 
The wind served us all the way home , and did not fall or let the sail slacken until we were close to the shore . 
I never shall forget the day at Green Island . 
The town of Dunnet Landing seemed large and noisy and oppressive as we came ashore . 
Perhaps now and then a castaway on a lonely desert island dreads the thought of being rescued . 
At last she was ready to believe that Mrs. Fosdick must have forgotten her promise and returned to her home , which was vaguely said to be over Thomaston way . 
She heard the sound of wheels , and gave an excited cry to me , as I sat by the window , that Mrs. Fosdick was coming right up the street . 
She may not be considerate , but she's dreadful good company , said Mrs. Todd hastily , coming back a few steps from the neighborhood of the gate . 
No , she ain't a mite considerate , but there's a small lobster left over from your tea yes , it's a real mercy there's a lobster . 
Susan Fosdick might just as well have passed the compliment o' comin' an hour ago . 
There were so few emergencies of any sort at Dunnet Landing that this one appeared overwhelming . 
No , she's rode 'way over from Nahum Brayton's place . 
I expect they were busy on the farm , and couldn't spare the horse in proper season . 
You just sly out an' set the teakittle on again , dear , an' drop in a good han'ful o' chips the fire's all alive . 
I'll take her right up to lay off her things , as she'll be occupied with explanations an' gettin' her bunnit off , so you'll have plenty o' time . 
She's one I shouldn't like to have find me unprepared . 
Mrs. Fosdick was already at the gate , and Mrs. Todd now turned with an air of complete surprise and delight to welcome her . 
I ain't had a mite o' supper , dear . 
I've been lottin' all the way on a cup o' that best tea o' yourn , some o' that Oolong you keep in the little chist . 
I don't want none o' your useful herbs . 
I keep that tea for ministers' folks , gayly responded Mrs. Todd . 
Come right along in , Susan Fosdick . 
There was an instant sense of high festivity in the evening air from the moment when our guest had so frankly demanded the Oolong tea . 
Mrs. Fosdick did not look , at first sight , like a person of great social gifts . 
She was a serious looking little bit of an old woman , with a birdlike nod of the head . 
The two friends did not reappear for at least an hour . 
I could hear their busy voices , loud and low by turns , as they ranged from public to confidential topics . 
At last Mrs. Todd kindly remembered me and returned , giving my door a ceremonious knock before she stepped in , with the small visitor in her wake . 
She reached behind her and took Mrs. Fosdick's hand as if she were young and bashful , and gave her a gentle pull forward . 
You can inform Mis' Fosdick how we found the folks out to Green Island the other day . 
She's always been well acquainted with mother . 
I'll slip out now an' put away the supper things an' set my bread to rise , if you'll both excuse me . 
You can come an' keep me company when you get ready , either or both . 
And Mrs. Todd , large and amiable , disappeared and left us . 
By the time we thought it discreet to join our hostess we were already sincere friends . 
Mrs. Fosdick had been the mother of a large family of sons and daughters , sailors and sailors' wives , and most of them had died before her . 
Mrs. Fosdick was not without a touch of dignity and elegance she was fashionable in her dress , but it was a curiously well preserved provincial fashion of some years back . 
In a wider sphere one might have called her a woman of the world , with her unexpected bits of modern knowledge , but Mrs. Todd's wisdom was an intimation of truth itself . 
She might belong to any age , like an idyl of Theocritus but while she always understood Mrs. Fosdick , that entertaining pilgrim could not always understand Mrs. Todd . 
That very first evening my friends plunged into a borderless sea of reminiscences and personal news . 
Your sister Dailey ain't gone , is she ? Why , no , Louisa ain't gone ! exclaimed Mrs. Todd , with surprise . 
Why , I never heard of that occurrence ! Yes'm she passed away last October , in Lynn . 
She had made her distant home in Vermont State , but she was making a visit to her youngest daughter . 
Louisa was the only one of my family whose funeral I wasn't able to attend , but 'twas a mere accident . 
All the rest of us were settled right about home . 
She'd just been out to see the monument the week before she was taken down , and admired it so much that they felt sure of her wishes . 
So she's really gone , and the funeral was up to Lynn ! repeated Mrs. Todd , as if to impress the sad fact upon her mind . 
She was some years younger than we be , too . 
I recollect the first day she ever came to school 'twas that first year mother sent me inshore to stay with aunt Topham's folks and get my schooling . 
That next fall we all went to sea together . 
Mother was uncertain till the last minute , as one may say . 
I remember my clothes were all left ashore in the east chamber in a basket where mother'd took them out o' my chist o' drawers an' left 'em ready to carry aboard . 
I wasn't but eight years old an' he was most seven and large of his age . 
Quick as we made a port she went right ashore an' fitted me out pretty , but we was bound for the East Indies and didn't put in anywhere for a good while . 
So I had quite a spell o' freedom . 
I liked the trousers best I used to climb the riggin' with 'em and frighten mother till she said an' vowed she'd never take me to sea again . 
I thought by the polite absent minded smile on Mrs. Todd's face this was no new story . 
Little Louisa was a beautiful child yes , I always thought Louisa was very pretty , Mrs. Todd said . 
She was a dear little girl in those days . 
She favored your mother the rest of you took after your father's folks . 
We did certain , agreed Mrs. Fosdick , rocking steadily . 
There , it does seem so pleasant to talk with an old acquaintance that knows what you know . 
I see so many of these new folks nowadays , that seem to have neither past nor future . 
Conversation's got to have some root in the past , or else you've got to explain every remark you make , an' it wears a person out . 
Mrs. Todd gave a funny little laugh . 
XIII Poor Joanna ONE EVENING my ears caught a mysterious allusion which Mrs. Todd made to Shell heap Island . 
She called it done , and well done , and had ostentatiously left it to cool , and taken her knitting work because Mrs. Fosdick was busy with hers . 
They sat in the two rocking chairs , the small woman and the large one , but now and then I could see that Mrs. Todd's thoughts remained with the cough drops . 
The time of gathering herbs was nearly over , but the time of syrups and cordials had begun . 
The heat of the open fire made us a little drowsy , but something in the way Mrs. Todd spoke of Shell heap Island waked my interest . 
Mrs. Todd smiled , and drummed on the arm of the rocking chair . 
Where is Shell heap Island ? I ventured to ask , seizing the opportunity . 
Bears nor east somewheres about three miles from Green Island right off shore , I should call it about eight miles out , said Mrs. Todd . 
You never was there , dear 'tis off the thoroughfares , and a very bad place to land at best . 
I should think 'twas , agreed Mrs. Fosdick , smoothing down her black silk apron . 
'Tis a place worth visitin' when you once get there . 
Some o' the old folks was kind o' fearful about it . 
'Twas 'counted a great place in old Indian times you can pick up their stone tools 'most any time if you hunt about . 
There's a beautiful spring o' water , too . 
Yes , I remember when they used to tell queer stories about Shell heap Island . 
Anyway , there was Indians you can see their shell heap that named the island and I've heard myself that 'twas one o' their cannibal places , but I never could believe it . 
There never was no cannibals on the coast o' Maine . 
All the Indians o' these regions are tame looking folks . 
Sakes alive , yes ! exclaimed Mrs. Fosdick . 
I never desired to go a whalin' v'y'ge myself . 
Everybody's just like everybody else , now nobody to laugh about , and nobody to cry about . 
It seemed to me that there were peculiarities of character in the region of Dunnet Landing yet , but I did not like to interrupt . 
Yes , said Mrs. Todd after a moment of meditation , there was certain a good many curiosities of human natur' in this neighborhood years ago . 
There was more energy then , and in some the energy took a singular turn . 
I ain't heard of a copy cat this great many years , said Mrs. Fosdick , laughing 'twas a favorite term o' my grandfather's . 
No , I wa'n't thinking o' those things , but of them strange straying creatur's that used to rove the country . 
You don't see them now , or the ones that used to hive away in their own houses with some strange notion or other . 
I thought again of Captain Littlepage , but my companions were not reminded of his name and there was brother William at Green Island , whom we all three knew . 
I was talking o' poor Joanna the other day . 
I hadn't thought of her for a great while , said Mrs. Fosdick abruptly . 
Mis' Brayton an' I recalled her as we sat together sewing . 
Miss Joanna Todd , her name was , a cousin o' Almiry's late husband . 
I expressed my interest , but as I glanced at Mrs. Todd I saw that she was confused by sudden affectionate feeling and unmistakable desire for reticence . 
I never want to hear Joanna laughed about , she said anxiously . 
Nor I , answered Mrs. Fosdick reassuringly . 
She retired from the world for good an' all , though she was a well off woman . 
All she wanted was to get away from folks she thought she wasn't fit to live with anybody , and wanted to be free . 
Shell heap Island come to her from her father , and first thing folks knew she'd gone off out there to live , and left word she didn't want no company . 
'Twas a bad place to get to , unless the wind an' tide were just right 'twas hard work to make a landing . 
What time of year was this ? I asked . 
Very late in the summer , said Mrs. Fosdick . 
No , I never could laugh at Joanna , as some did . 
All her hopes were built on marryin' , an' havin' a real home and somebody to look to she acted just like a bird when its nest is spoilt . 
They never had got along very well together , but he didn't want to sign it , till she acted so distressed that he gave in . 
Edward Todd ran down to the beach , an' stood there cryin' like a boy to see her go , but she was out o' hearin' . 
She never stepped foot on the mainland again long as she lived . 
How large an island is it ? How did she manage in winter ? I asked . 
Perhaps thirty acres , rocks and all , answered Mrs. Todd , taking up the story gravely . 
There can't be much of it that the salt spray don't fly over in storms . 
They said there was an old house built o' logs there before that , with a kind of natural cellar in the rock under it . 
He used to stay out there days to a time , and anchor a little sloop he had , and dig clams to fill it , and sail up to Portland . 
They said the dealers always gave him an extra price , the clams were so noted . 
Joanna used to go out and stay with him . 
They were always great companions , so she knew just what 'twas out there . 
There was a few sheep that belonged to her brother an' her , but she bargained for him to come and get them on the edge o' cold weather . 
He come home with the sheep an' left the other things by the house , but she never so much as looked out o' the window . 
She done it for a penance . 
She must have wanted to see Edward by that time . 
Mrs. Fosdick was fidgeting with eagerness to speak . 
Some thought the first cold snap would set her ashore , but she always remained , concluded Mrs. Todd soberly . 
Talk about the men not having any curiosity ! exclaimed Mrs. Fosdick scornfully . 
Why , the waters round Shell heap Island were white with sails all that fall . 
'Twas never called no great of a fishin' ground before . 
But there was one man who had always set everything by her from a boy . 
His sister told me she happened to see , the first time , what a pretty choice he made o' useful things that a woman would feel lost without . 
He stood off fishin' , and could see them in the grass all day , though sometimes she'd come out and walk right by them . 
There was other bo'ts near , out after mackerel . 
But early next morning his present was gone . 
There was a good many old friends had Joanna on their minds . 
Yes , said Mrs. Todd , losing her sad reserve in the growing sympathy of these reminiscences . 
But after the first year or two Joanna was more and more forgotten as an every day charge . 
Folks lived very simple in those days , you know , she continued , as Mrs. Fosdick's knitting was taking much thought at the moment . 
She was very fond of workin' in the garden ashore , and that first summer she began to till the little field out there , and raised a nice parcel o' potatoes . 
She could fish , o' course , and there was all her clams an' lobsters . 
You can always live well in any wild place by the sea when you'd starve to death up country , except 'twas berry time . 
Joanna had berries out there , blackberries at least , and there was a few herbs in case she needed them . 
Mullein in great quantities and a plant o' wormwood I remember seeing once when I stayed there , long before she fled out to Shell heap . 
Yes , I recall the wormwood , which is always a planted herb , so there must have been folks there before the Todds' day . 
A growin' bush makes the best gravestone I expect that wormwood always stood for somebody's solemn monument . 
Catnip , too , is a very endurin' herb about an old place . 
But what I want to know is what she did for other things , interrupted Mrs. Fosdick . 
Joanna was one that loved her friends . 
There must have been a terrible sight o' long winter evenin's that first year . 
There was her hens , suggested Mrs. Fosdick , after reviewing the melancholy situation . 
She never wanted the sheep after that first season . 
There wa'n't no proper pasture for sheep after the June grass was past , and she ascertained the fact and couldn't bear to see them suffer but the chickens done well . 
I remember sailin' by one spring afternoon , an' seein' the coops out front o' the house in the sun . 
How long was it before you went out with the minister ? You were the first ones that ever really got ashore to see Joanna . 
I had been reflecting upon a state of society which admitted such personal freedom and a voluntary hermitage . 
There was something mediaeval in the behavior of poor Joanna Todd under a disappointment of the heart . 
The two women had drawn closer together , and were talking on , quite unconscious of a listener . 
Poor Joanna ! said Mrs. Todd again , and sadly shook her head as if there were things one could not speak about . 
I called her a great fool , declared Mrs. Fosdick , with spirit , but I pitied her then , and I pity her far more now . 
I don't suppose at that troubled time Joanna could think of any way to mend her troubles except to run off and hide . 
There was the hens , repeated Mrs. Fosdick kindly . 
I expect she soon came to makin' folks o' them . 
No , I never went to work to blame Joanna , as some did . 
She was full o' feeling , and her troubles hurt her more than she could bear . 
I see it all now as I couldn't when I was young . 
She seemed to speak with new openness and freedom . 
Oh yes , I was only too pleased when the Reverend Mr. Dimmick invited me to go out with him . 
He hadn't been very long in the place when Joanna left home and friends . 
'Twas one day that next summer after she went , and I had been married early in the spring . 
He felt that he ought to go out and visit her . 
She was a member of the church , and might wish to have him consider her spiritual state . 
I wa'n't so sure o' that , but I always liked Joanna , and I'd come to be her cousin by marriage . 
Nathan an' I had conversed about goin' out to pay her a visit , but he got his chance to sail sooner'n he expected . 
So I wrapped the little box in a nice piece of paper and put it in my pocket , and picked her a bunch of fresh lemon balm , and off we started . 
I remember hearin' about your trials on the v'y'ge , she said . 
Why , yes , continued Mrs. Todd in her company manner . 
I picked her the balm , an' we started . 
Why , yes , Susan , the minister liked to have cost me my life that day . 
He would fasten the sheet , though I advised against it . 
He said the rope was rough an' cut his hand . 
There was a fresh breeze , an' he went on talking rather high flown , an' I felt some interested . 
All of a sudden there come up a gust , and he gave a screech and stood right up and called for help , 'way out there to sea . 
I knocked him right over into the bottom o' the bo't , getting by to catch hold of the sheet an' untie it . 
He wasn't but a little man I helped him right up after the squall passed , and made a handsome apology to him , but he did act kind o' offended . 
I do think they ought not to settle them landlocked folks in parishes where they're liable to be on the water , insisted Mrs. Fosdick . 
Bennett had a beautiful sailboat , didn't he ? responded Mrs. Todd . 
Well , there's a difference in gifts . 
Mr. Dimmick was not without light . 
'Twas light o' the moon , then , snapped Mrs. Fosdick he was pompous enough , but I never could remember a single word he said . 
There , go on , Mis' Todd I forget a great deal about that day you went to see poor Joanna . 
I felt she saw us coming , and knew us a great way off yes , I seemed to feel it within me , said our friend , laying down her knitting . 
I believe she'd made a garden once , when she was stopping there with her father , and some things must have seeded in . 
It looked as if she might have gone over to the other side of the island . 
'Twas neat and pretty all about the house , and a lovely day in July . 
We walked up from the beach together very sedate , and I felt for poor Nathan's little pin to see if 'twas safe in my dress pocket . 
All of a sudden Joanna come right to the fore door and stood there , not sayin' a word . 
We were all startled as we sat by the fire , and Mrs. Todd rose hastily and went to answer the call , leaving her rocking chair in violent motion . 
Mrs. Fosdick and I heard an anxious voice at the door speaking of a sick child , and Mrs. Todd's kind , motherly voice inviting the messenger in then we waited in silence . 
There was a sound of heavy dropping of rain from the eaves , and the distant roar and undertone of the sea . 
Yes , she was just the same , and looked very nice , Joanna did . 
I had been married since she left home , an' she treated me like her own folks . 
She always had beautiful , quiet manners . 
I went over once from home and stayed 'most a week with Joanna when we was girls , and those young happy days rose up before me . 
The first minute my eyes fell upon Joanna's face that day I saw how she had grown to look like Mis' Todd . 
'Twas the mother right over again . 
Oh dear me ! said Mrs. Fosdick . 
Joanna had done one thing very pretty . 
I couldn't keep the tears out o' my eyes , I felt so sad . 
I said to myself , I must get mother to come over an' see Joanna the love in mother's heart would warm her , an' she might be able to advise . 
Oh no , Joanna was dreadful stern , said Mrs. Fosdick . 
We were all settin' down very proper , but Joanna would keep stealin' glances at me as if she was glad I come . 
She had but little to say she was real polite an' gentle , and yet forbiddin' . 
I got so provoked I opened my eyes and stared right at him . 
He remarked that he'd like to walk over an' see the shell heap so she went right to the door and pointed him the way . 
I see then that she'd made her some kind o' sandal shoes out o' the fine rushes to wear on her feet she stepped light an' nice in 'em as shoes . 
Mrs. Fosdick leaned back in her rocking chair and gave a heavy sigh . 
I didn't move at first , but I'd held out just as long as I could , said Mrs. Todd , whose voice trembled a little . 
When Joanna returned from the door , an' I could see that man's stupid back departin' among the wild rose bushes , I just ran to her an' caught her in my arms . 
I wasn't so big as I be now , and she was older than me , but I hugged her tight , just as if she was a child . 
I can't bear to leave you here' and I burst right out crying . 
I'd had my own trials , young as I was , an' she knew it . 
Oh , I did entreat her yes , I entreated Joanna . 
What did she say then ? asked Mrs. Fosdick , much moved . 
She looked the same way , sad an' remote through it all , said Mrs. Todd mournfully . 
She took hold of my hand , and we sat down close together 'twas as if she turned round an' made a child of me . 
'I haven't got no right to live with folks no more , she said . 
'You must never ask me again , Almiry I've done the only thing I could do , and I've made my choice . 
I feel a great comfort in your kindness , but I don't deserve it . 
I have committed the unpardonable sin you don't understand , says she humbly . 
'I was in great wrath and trouble , and my thoughts was so wicked towards God that I can't expect ever to be forgiven . 
I have come to know what it is to have patience , but I have lost my hope . 
You must tell those that ask how 'tis with me , she said , 'an' tell them I want to be alone . 
I couldn't speak no , there wa'n't anything I could say , she seemed so above everything common . 
'Nathan an' I was always good friends I'm glad he don't think hard of me , says she . 
'I want you to have it , Almiry , an' wear it for love o' both o' us , and she handed it back to me . 
Then she seemed to have said all she wanted to , as if she was done with the world , and we sat there a few minutes longer together . 
The minister come back pretty soon , and I told him I was all ready , and we started down to the bo't . 
Hearin' you tell about Joanna brings the time right back as if 'twas yesterday , she said . 
I expect that if it had been in these days , such a person would be plagued to death with idle folks , continued Mrs. Todd , after a long pause . 
I know mother used to go to see her sometimes , and send William over now and then with something fresh an' nice from the farm . 
There is a point on the sheltered side where you can lay a boat close to shore an' land anything safe on the turf out o' reach o' the water . 
I never saw her myself to speak to after that day . 
The world's bigger an' freer than it used to be , urged Mrs. Fosdick . 
No , said her friend . 
'Tis like bad eyesight , the mind of such a person if your eyes don't see right there may be a remedy , but there's no kind of glasses to remedy the mind . 
No , Joanna was Joanna , and there she lays on her island where she lived and did her poor penance . 
So the funeral was out there , a Saturday afternoon in September . 
Some went out o' mere curiosity , I don't doubt , there's always such to every funeral but most had real feelin' , and went purpose to show it . 
He was put out by it , an' acted as if he didn't know whether to stop or go on . 
I may have been prejudiced , but I wa'n't the only one thought the poor little bird done the best of the two . 
What became o' the man that treated her so , did you ever hear ? asked Mrs. Fosdick . 
I know he lived up to Massachusetts for a while . 
Somebody who came from the same place told me that he was in trade there an' doin' very well , but that was years ago . 
I never heard anything more than that he went to the war in one o' the early regiments . 
No , I never heard any more of him , answered Mrs. Todd . 
Joanna was another sort of person , and perhaps he showed good judgment in marryin' somebody else , if only he'd behaved straight forward and manly . 
She'd had a piece o' work tryin' to make him walk accordin' to her right ideas , but she'd have had too much variety ever to fall into a melancholy . 
Some is meant to be the Joannas in this world , an' 'twas her poor lot . 
We were taking the crooked northeasterly channel seaward , and were well out from shore while it was still early in the afternoon . 
I found myself presently among some unfamiliar islands , and suddenly remembered the story of poor Joanna . 
There is something in the fact of a hermitage that cannot fail to touch the imagination the recluses are a sad kindred , but they are never commonplace . 
Mrs. Todd had truly said that Joanna was like one of the saints in the desert the loneliness of sorrow will forever keep alive their sad succession . 
Where is Shell heap Island ? I asked eagerly . 
You see Shell heap now , layin' 'way out beyond Black Island there , answered the captain , pointing with outstretched arm as he stood , and holding the rudder with his knee . 
I don't know's we can make an easy landin' for ye , he remarked doubtfully . 
May get your feet wet bad place to land . 
Trouble is I ought to have brought a tag boat but they clutch on to the water so , an' I do love to sail free . 
This gre't boat gets easy bothered with anything trailin' . 
'Tain't breakin' much on the meetin' house ledges guess I can fetch in to Shell heap . 
How long is it since Miss Joanna Todd died ? I asked , partly by way of explanation . 
Twenty two years come September , answered the captain , after reflection . 
She died the same year as my oldest boy was born , an' the town house was burnt over to the Port . 
I didn't know but you merely wanted to hunt for some o' them Indian relics . 
There was a crooked channel of deep water which led close up against the shore . 
There , you hold fast for'ard there , an' wait for her to lift on the wave . 
I'm beat if I ain't aground after all ! mourned the captain despondently . 
Used to call this p'int Joanna's wharf privilege , but 't has worn away in the weather since her time . 
I thought one or two bumps wouldn't hurt us none , paint's got to be renewed , anyway , but I never thought she'd tetch . 
I figured on shyin' by , the captain apologized . 
I stood watching while Captain Bowden cleverly found his way back to deeper water . 
You needn't make no haste , he called to me I'll keep within call . 
Joanna lays right up there in the far corner o' the field . 
There used to be a path led to the place . 
I always knew her well . 
I was out here to the funeral . 
I found the path it was touching to discover that this lonely spot was not without its pilgrims . 
There was the world , and here was she with eternity well begun . 
XVI The Great Expedition MRS . 
TODD never by any chance gave warning over night of her great projects and adventures by sea and land . 
She first came to an understanding with the primal forces of nature , and never trusted to any preliminary promise of good weather , but examined the day for herself in its infancy . 
She went and came as if she had already started on her expedition with utmost haste and kept returning for something that was forgotten . 
Mrs. Todd was alert in a moment . 
There ! I might have known ! she exclaimed . 
It's the th of August , when he goes and gets his money . 
He heired an annuity from an uncle o' his on his mother's side . 
I understood the uncle said none o' Sam Begg's wife's folks should make free with it , so after Sam's gone it'll all be past an' spent , like last summer . 
That's what Sam prospers on now , if you can call it prosperin' . 
Yes , I might have known . 
'Tis the th o' August with him , an' he gener'ly stops to dinner with a cousin's widow on the way home . 
Feb'uary n' August is the times . 
Takes him 'bout all day to go an' come . 
I heard this explanation with interest . 
The tone of Mrs. Todd's voice was complaining at the last . 
We can put things in behind roots and flowers and raspberries , or anything you are going after much better than if we had the chaise . 
Mrs. Todd looked stony and unwilling . 
I counted upon the chaise , she said , turning her back to me , and roughly pushing back all the quiet tumblers on the cupboard shelf as if they had been impertinent . 
Yes , I desired the chaise for once . 
I ain't goin' berryin' nor to fetch home no more wilted vegetation this year . 
Season's about past , except for a poor few o' late things , she added in a milder tone . 
No , I ain't intendin' to go berryin' . 
I've been plottin' for it the past fortnight and hopin' for a good day . 
Would you like to have me go too ? I asked frankly , but not without a humble fear that I might have mistaken the purpose of this latest plan . 
Oh certain , dear ! answered my friend affectionately . 
Oh no , I never thought o' any one else for comp'ny , if it's convenient for you , long's poor mother ain't come . 
I ain't nothin' like so handy with a conveyance as I be with a good bo't . 
Comes o' my early bringing up . 
I expect we've got to make that great high wagon do . 
The tires want settin' and 'tis all loose jointed , so I can hear it shackle the other side o' the ridge . 
We'll put the basket in front . 
I ain't goin' to have it bouncin' an' twirlin' all the way . 
Why , I've been makin' some nice hearts and rounds to carry . 
These were signs of high festivity , and my interest deepened moment by moment . 
I'll go down to the Beggs' and get the horse just as soon as I finish my breakfast , said I. Then we can start whenever you are ready . 
Mrs. Todd looked cloudy again . 
I don't know but you look nice enough to go just as you be , she suggested doubtfully . 
No , you wouldn't want to wear that pretty blue dress o' yourn 'way up country . 
'Taint dusty now , but it may be comin' home . 
No , I expect you'd rather not wear that and the other hat . 
I shouldn't think of wearing these clothes , said I , with sudden illumination . 
I was cast down when I see you come to breakfast . 
I didn't think 'twas just what you'd select to wear to the reunion , where you're goin' to meet everybody . 
What reunion do you mean ? I asked , not without amazement . 
Not the Bowden Family's ? I thought that was going to take place in September . 
They sent word the middle o' the week . 
I thought you might have heard of it . 
Yes , they changed the day . 
I been thinkin' we'd talk it over , but you never can tell beforehand how it's goin' to be , and 'taint worth while to wear a day all out before it comes . 
Mrs. Todd gave no place to the pleasures of anticipation , but she spoke like the oracle that she was . 
I wish mother was here to go , she continued sadly . 
I did look for her last night , and I couldn't keep back the tears when the dark really fell and she wa'n't here , she does so enjoy a great occasion . 
If William had a mite o' snap an' ambition , he'd take the lead at such a time . 
Mother likes variety , and there ain't but a few nice opportunities 'round here , an' them she has to miss 'less she contrives to get ashore to me . 
I do re'lly hate to go to the reunion without mother , an' 'tis a beautiful day everybody'll be asking where she is . 
Once she'd have got here anyway . 
Poor mother's beginnin' to feel her age . 
Why , there's your mother now ! I exclaimed with joy , I was so glad to see the dear old soul again . 
I hear her voice at the gate . 
But Mrs. Todd was out of the door before me . 
There , sure enough , stood Mrs. Blackett , who must have left Green Island before daylight . 
She had climbed the steep road from the waterside so eagerly that she was out of breath , and was standing by the garden fence to rest . 
Oh , what a poor , plain garden ! Hardly a flower in it except your bush o' balm ! she said . 
But you do keep your garden neat , Almiry . 
She dropped a quick little curtsey before Mrs. Todd . 
There , mother , what a girl you be ! I am so pleased ! I was just bewailin' you , said the daughter , with unwonted feeling . 
I was just bewailin' you , I was so disappointed , an' I kep' myself awake a good piece o' the night scoldin' poor William . 
I was partly ready to come , but dear William said I should be all tired out and might get cold , havin' to beat all the way in . 
So we give it up , and set down and spent the evenin' together . 
It was a little rough and windy outside , and I guess 'twas better judgment we went to bed very early and made a good start just at daylight . 
It's been a lovely mornin' on the water . 
William thought he'd better fetch across beyond Bird Rocks , rowin' the greater part o' the way then we sailed from there right over to the landin' , makin' only one tack . 
You just sit right down an' have a cup of tea and rest you while we make our preparations . 
Oh , I am so gratified to think you've come ! Yes , she was just havin' her breakfast , and we were speakin' of you . 
I laid his best things out all ready , explained Mrs. Blackett , a little anxiously . 
This wind will serve him nice all the way home . 
Yes , I will take a cup of tea , dear , a cup of tea is always good and then I'll rest a minute and be all ready to start . 
I do feel condemned for havin' such hard thoughts o' William , openly confessed Mrs. Todd . 
She stood before us so large and serious that we both laughed and could not find it in our hearts to convict so rueful a culprit . 
Then I hurried away to make sure of the grocery wagon . 
Whatever might be the good of the reunion , I was going to have the pleasure and delight of a day in Mrs. Blackett's company , not to speak of Mrs. Todd's . 
The early morning breeze was still blowing , and the warm , sunshiny air was of some ethereal northern sort , with a cool freshness as it came over new fallen snow . 
The world was filled with a fragrance of fir balsam and the faintest flavor of seaweed from the ledges , bare and brown at low tide in the little harbor . 
It was so still and so early that the village was but half awake . 
I saw William Blackett's escaping sail already far from land , and Captain Littlepage was sitting behind his closed window as I passed by , watching for some one who never came . 
I tried to speak to him , but he did not see me . 
There was a patient look on the old man's face , as if the world were a great mistake and he had nobody with whom to speak his own language or find companionship . 
Mrs. Todd bestowed great care upon seating us as if we were taking passage by boat , but she finally pronounced that we were properly trimmed . 
When we had gone only a little way up the hill she remembered that she had left the house door wide open , though the large key was safe in her pocket . 
She'll be there in her kitchen she'll hear you the minute you call 'twont give you no delay , said Mrs. Todd to the doctor . 
Yes , Mis' Dennett's right there , with the windows all open . 
It isn't as if my fore door opened right on the road , anyway . 
At which proof of composure Mrs. Blackett smiled wisely at me . 
The doctor seemed delighted to see our guest they were evidently the warmest friends , and I saw a look of affectionate confidence in their eyes . 
You're wearing well good for another ten years at this rate , he assured her cheerfully , and she smiled back . 
I like to keep a strict account of my old stand bys , and he turned to me . 
Don't you let Mrs. Todd overdo to day , old folks like her are apt to be thoughtless and then we all laughed , and , parting , went our ways gayly . 
I suppose he puts up with your rivalry the same as ever ? asked Mrs. Blackett . 
You and he are as friendly as ever , I see , Almiry , and Almira sagely nodded . 
He's got too many long routes now to stop to 'tend to all his door patients , she said , especially them that takes pleasure in talkin' themselves over . 
The doctor and me have got to be kind of partners he's gone a good deal , far an' wide . 
Looked tired , didn't he ? I shall have to advise with him an' get him off for a good rest . 
I guess they think consider'ble of him up there . 
Mrs. Todd shook the reins and reached determinedly for the whip , as if she were compelling public opinion . 
Whatever energy and spirit the white horse had to begin with were soon exhausted by the steep hills and his discernment of a long expedition ahead . 
Mrs. Blackett and I sat together , and Mrs. Todd sat alone in front with much majesty and the large basket of provisions . 
This was a highway quite new to me in fact , most of my journeys with Mrs. Todd had been made afoot and between the roads , in open pasturelands . 
My friends stopped several times for brief dooryard visits , and made so many promises of stopping again on the way home that I began to wonder how long the expedition would last . 
I had often noticed how warmly Mrs. Todd was greeted by her friends , but it was hardly to be compared with the feeling now shown toward Mrs. Blackett . 
Now , we mustn't stop again if we can help it , insisted Mrs. Todd at last . 
You'll get tired , mother , and you'll think the less o' reunions . 
We can visit along here any day . 
There , if they ain't frying doughnuts in this next house , too ! These are new folks , you know , from over St . 
George way they took this old Talcot farm last year . 
'Tis the best water on the road , and the check rein's come undone yes , we'd best delay a little and water the horse . 
Entertainment for man and beast , announced Mrs. Todd with satisfaction . 
Why , we've perceived there was new doughnuts all along the road , but you're the first that has treated us . 
Our new acquaintance flushed with pleasure , but said nothing . 
They're very nice you've had good luck with 'em , pronounced Mrs. Todd . 
Yes , we've observed there was doughnuts all the way along if one house is frying all the rest is 'tis so with a great many things . 
I don't suppose likely you're goin' up to the Bowden reunion ? asked the hostess as the white horse lifted his head and we were saying good by . 
Why , yes , said Mrs. Blackett and Mrs. Todd and I , all together . 
I am connected with the family . 
Yes , I expect to be there this afternoon . 
I've been lookin' forward to it , she told us eagerly . 
We shall see you there . 
Come and sit with us if it's convenient , said dear Mrs. Blackett , and we drove away . 
I wonder who she was before she was married ? said Mrs. Todd , who was usually unerring in matters of genealogy . 
She must have been one of that remote branch that lived down beyond Thomaston . 
We can find out this afternoon . 
I expect that the families'll march together , or be sorted out some way . 
I'm willing to own a relation that has such proper ideas of doughnuts . 
I seem to see the family looks , said Mrs. Blackett . 
I wish we'd asked her name . 
She's a stranger , and I want to help make it pleasant for all such . 
She resembles Cousin Pa'lina Bowden about the forehead , said Mrs. Todd with decision . 
I thought 'twas goin' to do well , she said complacently as we went on again . 
Last time I was up this way that tree was kind of drooping and discouraged . 
Grown trees act that way sometimes , same's folks then they'll put right to it and strike their roots off into new ground and start all over again with real good courage . 
Ash trees is very likely to have poor spells they ain't got the resolution of other trees . 
I listened hopefully for more it was this peculiar wisdom that made one value Mrs. Todd's pleasant company . 
You lay your ear down to the ground an' you'll hear a little stream runnin' . 
Every such tree has got its own livin' spring there's folk made to match 'em . 
I could not help turning to look at Mrs. Blackett , close beside me . 
Her hands were clasped placidly in their thin black woolen gloves , and she was looking at the flowery wayside as we went slowly along , with a pleased , expectant smile . 
I do not think she had heard a word about the trees . 
I just saw a nice plant o' elecampane growin' back there , she said presently to her daughter . 
I haven't got my mind on herbs to day , responded Mrs. Todd , in the most matter of fact way . 
I'm bent on seeing folks , and she shook the reins again . 
I for one had no wish to hurry , it was so pleasant in the shady roads . 
Beyond this were distant shores like another country in the midday haze which half hid the hills beyond , and the faraway pale blue mountains on the northern horizon . 
There was a schooner with all sails set coming down the bay from a white village that was sprinkled on the shore , and there were many sailboats flitting about it . 
It was a noble landscape , and my eyes , which had grown used to the narrow inspection of a shaded roadside , could hardly take it in . 
Why , it's the upper bay , said Mrs. Todd . 
You can see 'way over into the town of Fessenden . 
Those farms 'way over there are all in Fessenden . 
Mother used to have a sister that lived up that shore . 
'Twas ticklish business , an' we didn't visit back an' forth as much as mother desired . 
You have to go 'way down the co'st to Cold Spring Light an' round that long point , up here's what they call the Back Shore . 
No , we were 'most always separated , my dear sister and me , after the first year she was married , said Mrs. Blackett . 
We had our little families an' plenty o' cares . 
We were always lookin' forward to the time we could see each other more . 
We did have a beautiful time together , sister an' me she used to look back to it long's she lived . 
I do love to look over there where she used to live , Mrs. Blackett went on as we began to go down the hill . 
It seems as if she must still be there , though she's long been gone . 
She loved their farm , she didn't see how I got so used to our island but somehow I was always happy from the first . 
Yes , it's very dull to me up among those slow farms , declared Mrs. Todd . 
The snow troubles 'em in winter . 
They're all besieged by winter , as you may say 'tis far better by the shore than up among such places . 
I never thought I should like to live up country . 
Why , just see the carriages ahead of us on the next rise ! exclaimed Mrs. Blackett . 
There's going to be a great gathering , don't you believe there is , Almiry ? It hasn't seemed up to now as if anybody was going but us . 
Mrs. Blackett's eyes were bright with excitement , and even Mrs. Todd showed remarkable enthusiasm . 
She hurried the horse and caught up with the holiday makers ahead . 
There's all the Dep'fords goin' , six in the wagon , she told us joyfully an' Mis' Alva Tilley's folks are now risin' the hill in their new carry all . 
Mrs. Blackett pulled at the neat bow of her black bonnet strings , and tied them again with careful precision . 
I believe your bonnet's on a little bit sideways , dear , she advised Mrs. Todd as if she were a child but Mrs. Todd was too much occupied to pay proper heed . 
We began to feel a new sense of gayety and of taking part in the great occasion as we joined the little train . 
XVIII The Bowden Reunion IT IS VERY RARE in country life , where high days and holidays are few , that any occasion of general interest proves to be less than great . 
Such is the hidden fire of enthusiasm in the New England nature that , once given an outlet , it shines forth with almost volcanic light and heat . 
Each heart is warm and every face shines with the ancient light . 
Oh , I expect I shall meet friends today that I haven't seen in a long while , said Mrs. Blackett with deep satisfaction . 
'Twill bring out a good many of the old folks , 'tis such a lovely day . 
I'm always glad not to have them disappointed . 
I guess likely the best of 'em'll be there , answered Mrs. Todd with gentle humor , stealing a glance at me . 
There's one thing certain there's nothing takes in this whole neighborhood like anything related to the Bowdens . 
Yes , I do feel that when you call upon the Bowdens you may expect most families to rise up between the Landing and the far end of the Back Cove . 
Those that aren't kin by blood are kin by marriage . 
There used to be an old story goin' about when I was a girl , said Mrs. Blackett , with much amusement . 
'Mis' Bowden , Mis' Bowden ! says she . 
'Your baby's in a fit ! They used to tell that the whole congregation was up on its feet in a minute and right out into the aisles . 
All the Mis' Bowdens was setting right out for home the minister stood there in the pulpit tryin' to keep sober , an' all at once he burst right out laughin' . 
My mother was there , and she thought certain 'twas me . 
None of our family was ever subject to fits , interrupted Mrs. Todd severely . 
No , we never had fits , none of us and 'twas lucky we didn't 'way out there to Green Island . 
There , just you look up to the crossroads , mother , she suddenly exclaimed . 
See all the teams ahead of us . 
She stood up in the high wagon to see everything , and when she sat down again she took fast hold of my hand . 
Hadn't you better urge the horse a little , Almiry ? she asked . 
He's had it easy as we came along , and he can rest when we get there . 
The others are some little ways ahead , and I don't want to lose a minute . 
We watched the boats drop their sails one by one in the cove as we drove along the high land . 
The first Bowden settler had made his home there , and it was still the Bowden farm five generations of sailors and farmers and soldiers had been its children . 
We could see now that there were different footpaths from along shore and across country . 
In all these there were straggling processions walking in single file , like old illustrations of the Pilgrim's Progress . 
There was a crowd about the house as if huge bees were swarming in the lilac bushes . 
Beyond the fields and cove a higher point of land ran out into the bay , covered with woods which must have kept away much of the northwest wind in winter . 
Now there was a pleasant look of shade and shelter there for the great family meeting . 
Mrs. Todd encouraged the horse until he fairly pranced with gayety as we drove round to the front of the house on the soft turf . 
There was an instant cry of rejoicing , and two or three persons ran toward us from the busy group . 
Why , dear Mis' Blackett ! here's Mis' Blackett ! I heard them say , as if it were pleasure enough for one day to have a sight of her . 
Mrs. Todd turned to me with a lovely look of triumph and self forgetfulness . 
I was master afraid she wouldn't be here , he said , looking at Mrs. Todd with a face like a happy sunburnt schoolboy , while everybody crowded round to give their welcome . 
Mother's always the queen , said Mrs. Todd . 
Yes , they'll all make everything of mother she'll have a lovely time to day . 
I wouldn't have had her miss it , and there won't be a thing she'll ever regret , except to mourn because William wa'n't here . 
I already knew some of Mrs. Todd's friends and kindred , and felt like an adopted Bowden in this happy moment . 
Small companies were continually coming up the long green slope from the water , and nearly all the boats had come to shore . 
I saw the straight , soldierly little figure of a man who bore a fine resemblance to Mrs. Blackett , and who appeared to marshal us with perfect ease . 
He was imperative enough , but with a grand military sort of courtesy , and bore himself with solemn dignity of importance . 
We were sorted out according to some clear design of his own , and stood as speechless as a troop to await his orders . 
We ranked by fours , and even then we made a long procession . 
It was strangely moving to see this and to make part of it . 
We possessed the instincts of a far , forgotten childhood I found myself thinking that we ought to be carrying green branches and singing as we went . 
Mrs. Todd had taken off her warm gloves and looked the picture of content . 
I've always meant to have you see this place , but I never looked for such a beautiful opportunity weather an' occasion both made to match . 
Yes , it suits me I don't ask no more . 
Who was the marshal ? I hastened to ask . 
Was he an old soldier ? Don't he do well ? answered Mrs. Todd with satisfaction . 
He don't often have such a chance to show off his gifts , said Mrs. Caplin , a friend from the Landing who had joined us . 
That's Sant Bowden he always takes the lead , such days . 
Good for nothing else most o' his time trouble is , he I turned with interest to hear the worst . 
Mrs. Caplin's tone was both zealous and impressive . 
Stim'lates , she explained scornfully . 
No , Santin never was in the war , said Mrs. Todd with lofty indifference . 
It was a cause of real distress to him . 
They say he knows all their tactics , an' can tell all about the battle o' Waterloo well's he can Bunker Hill . 
I told him once the country'd lost a great general , an' I meant it , too . 
I expect you're near right , said Mrs. Caplin , a little crestfallen and apologetic . 
I be right , insisted Mrs. Todd with much amiability . 
Over to the Port they always invite him to march Decoration Day , same as the rest , an' he does look noble he comes of soldier stock . 
I had been noticing with great interest the curiously French type of face which prevailed in this rustic company . 
I sometimes think that Santin's ability has come 'way down from then . 
'Tain't nothin' he's ever acquired 'twas born in him . 
I don't know's he ever saw a fine parade , or met with those that studied up such things . 
He had it all over to me one day , an' I tried hard to appear interested . 
His life's all in it , but he will have those poor gloomy spells come over him now an' then , an' then he has to drink . 
Mrs. Caplin gave a heavy sigh . 
There's a great many such strayaway folks , just as there is plants , continued Mrs. Todd , who was nothing if not botanical . 
I know of just one sprig of laurel that grows over back here in a wild spot , an' I never could hear of no other on this coast . 
I had a large bunch brought me once from Massachusetts way , so I know it . 
This piece grows in an open spot where you'd think 'twould do well , but it's sort o' poor lookin' . 
I've visited it time an' again , just to notice its poor blooms . 
'Tis a real Sant Bowden , out of its own place . 
Mrs. Caplin looked bewildered and blank . 
'Twa'n't no time for tactics then , they wa'n't a'thinkin' of the church military . 
Sant , he couldn't do nothin' with 'em . 
All he thinks of , when he sees a crowd , is how to march 'em . 
'Tis all very well when he don't 'tempt too much . 
He never did act like other folks . 
Ain't I just been maintainin' that he ain't like 'em ? urged Mrs. Todd decidedly . 
Strange folks has got to have strange ways , for what I see . 
I didn't see the bearin' of it then quite so plain . 
I always did think Mari' Harris resembled a Chinee . 
Yes , Mari' was one o' them pretty little lambs that make dreadful homely old sheep , replied Mrs. Todd with energy . 
Cap'n Littlepage never'd look so disconsolate if she was any sort of a proper person to direct things . 
She might divert him yes , she might divert the old gentleman , an' let him think he had his own way , 'stead o' arguing everything down to the bare bone . 
'Twouldn't hurt her to sit down an' hear his great stories once in a while . 
The stories are very interesting , I ventured to say . 
Yes , you always catch yourself a thinkin' what if they all was true , and he had the right of it , answered Mrs. Todd . 
He's a good sight better company , though dreamy , than such sordid creatur's as Mari' Harris . 
Live and let live , said dear old Mrs. Blackett gently . 
I haven't seen the captain for a good while , now that I ain't so constant to meetin' , she added wistfully . 
We always have known each other . 
Why , if it is a good pleasant day tomorrow , I'll get William to call an' invite the capt'in to dinner . 
William'll be in early so's to pass up the street without meetin' anybody . 
There , they're callin' out it's time to set the tables , said Mrs. Caplin , with great excitement . 
After this there was no more time for conversation until we were seated in order at the long tables . 
I'm one that always dreads seeing some o' the folks that I don't like , at such a time as this , announced Mrs. Todd privately to me after a season of reflection . 
We were just waiting for the feast to begin . 
You wouldn't think such a great creatur' 's I be could feel all over pins an' needles . 
Poor Nathan saw somethin' had crossed me , he had very nice feelings , and when he asked what 'twas , I told him . 
'I never could like her myself , said he . 
'Yes , says I , 'but think o' Thanksgivin' times an' funerals she's our relation , an' we've got to own her . 
Young folks don't think o' those things . 
There she goes now , do let's pray her by ! said Mrs. Todd , with an alarming transition from general opinions to particular animosities . 
I hate her just the same as I always did but she's got on a real pretty dress . 
I do try to remember that she's Nathan's cousin . 
Oh dear , well she's gone by after all , an' ain't seen me . 
I expected she'd come pleasantin' round just to show off an' say afterwards she was acquainted . 
This was so different from Mrs. Todd's usual largeness of mind that I had a moment's uneasiness but the cloud passed quickly over her spirit , and was gone with the offender . 
There never was a more generous out of door feast along the coast then the Bowden family set forth that day . 
To call it a picnic would make it seem trivial . 
The great tables were edged with pretty oak leaf trimming , which the boys and girls made . 
I began to respect the Bowdens for their inheritance of good taste and skill and a certain pleasing gift of formality . 
Something made them do all these things in a finer way than most country people would have done them . 
As I looked up and down the tables there was a good cheer , a grave soberness that shone with pleasure , a humble dignity of bearing . 
There were some who should have sat below the salt for lack of this good breeding but they were not many . 
Mrs. Todd looked up at the roof of green trees , and then carefully surveyed the company . 
I see 'em better now they're all settin' down , she said with satisfaction . 
There's old Mr. Gilbraith and his sister . 
I wish they were sittin' with us they're not among folks they can parley with , an' they look disappointed . 
As the feast went on , the spirits of my companion steadily rose . 
She was not so much reminiscent now as expectant , and as alert and gay as a girl . 
We who were her neighbors were full of gayety , which was but the reflected light from her beaming countenance . 
The reserve force of society grows more and more amazing to one's thought . 
More than one face among the Bowdens showed that only opportunity and stimulus were lacking , a narrow set of circumstances had caged a fine able character and held it captive . 
One sees exactly the same types in a country gathering as in the most brilliant city company . 
You are safe to be understood if the spirit of your speech is the same for one neighbor as for the other . 
XIX The Feast's End THE FEAST was a noble feast , as has already been said . 
There was an elegant ingenuity displayed in the form of pies which delighted my heart . 
Beside a delightful variety of material , the decorations went beyond all my former experience dates and names were wrought in lines of pastry and frosting on the tops . 
There was even more elaborate reading matter on an excellent early apple pie which we began to share and eat , precept upon precept . 
It must have been baked in sections , in one of the last of the great brick ovens , and fastened together on the morning of the day . 
I met the maker of the gingerbread house , which had called up lively remembrances of a childish story . 
She had the gleaming eye of an enthusiast and a look of high ideals . 
It wasn't all I expected it would be , she said sadly , as many an artist had said before her of his work . 
Sounded pretty , said the generous listener . 
Yes , I thought she did very well . 
When she speaks o' those that are gone , she feels it all , and so does everybody else , but she harps too much . 
I'd laid half of that away for next time , if I was Mary Anna . 
There comes mother to speak to her , an' old Mr. Gilbreath's sister now she'll be heartened right up . 
Mother'll say just the right thing . 
The leave takings were as affecting as the meetings of these old friends had been . 
Even funerals in this country of the pointed firs were not without their social advantages and satisfactions . 
I heard the words next summer repeated many times , though summer was still ours and all the leaves were green . 
The boats began to put out from shore , and the wagons to drive away . 
She spoke of those days as if they had but lately passed in fact , I could imagine that the house looked almost exactly the same to her . 
Some of the guests who came from a distance were still sitting in the best room when we went in to take leave of the master and mistress of the house . 
We all said eagerly what a pleasant day it had been , and how swiftly the time had passed . 
Perhaps it is the great national anniversaries which our country has lately kept , and the soldiers' meetings that take place everywhere , which have made reunions of every sort the fashion . 
This one , at least , had been very interesting . 
Clannishness is an instinct of the heart , it is more than a birthright , or a custom and lesser rights were forgotten in the claim to a common inheritance . 
We were among the very last to return to our proper lives and lodgings . 
I came near to feeling like a true Bowden , and parted from certain new friends as if they were old friends we were rich with the treasure of a new remembrance . 
The road was new to me , as roads always are , going back . 
Mrs. Blackett and I gave our word of honor that we would remind her of this heavy responsibility . 
The way seemed short , we had so much to talk about . 
Mrs. Todd alighted once or twice , refusing all assistance in securing some boughs of a rare shrub which she valued for its bark , though she proved incommunicative as to her reasons . 
We passed the house where we had been so kindly entertained with doughnuts earlier in the day , and found it closed and deserted , which was a disappointment . 
They must have stopped to tea somewheres and thought they'd finish up the day , said Mrs. Todd . 
Those that enjoyed it best'll want to get right home so's to think it over . 
I didn't see the woman there after all , did you ? asked Mrs. Blackett as the horse stopped to drink at the trough . 
Oh yes , I spoke with her , answered Mrs. Todd , with but scant interest or approval . 
She ain't a member o' our family . 
I thought you said she resembled Cousin Pa'lina Bowden about the forehead , suggested Mrs. Blackett . 
Well , she don't , answered Mrs. Todd impatiently . 
I ain't one that's ord'narily mistaken about family likenesses , and she didn't seem to meet with friends , so I went square up to her . 
'I expect you're a Bowden by your looks , says I. 'Yes , I can take it you're one o' the Bowdens . 
'Lor' , no , says she . 
'Dennett was my maiden name , but I married a Bowden for my first husband . 
I thought I'd come an' just see what was a goin' on ! Mrs. Blackett laughed heartily . 
I'm goin' to remember to tell William o' that , she said . 
There , Almiry , the only thing that's troubled me all this day is to think how William would have enjoyed it . 
I do so wish William had been there . 
I sort of wish he had , myself , said Mrs. Todd frankly . 
There wa'n't many old folks there , somehow , said Mrs. Blackett , with a touch of sadness in her voice . 
There ain't so many to come as there used to be , I'm aware , but I expected to see more . 
Mrs. Blackett was smiling and thinking about her happy day , though she began to look a little tired . 
Neither of my companions was troubled by her burden of years . 
I hoped in my heart that I might be like them as I lived on into age , and then smiled to think that I too was no longer very young . 
So we always keep the same hearts , though our outer framework fails and shows the touch of time . 
'Twas pretty when they sang the hymn , wasn't it ? asked Mrs. Blackett at suppertime , with real enthusiasm . 
There was such a plenty o' men's voices where I sat it did sound beautiful . 
I had to stop and listen when they came to the last verse . 
I saw that Mrs. Todd's broad shoulders began to shake . 
Her vagaries offered such an exciting subject for conversation that my heart rejoiced at the sound of a hoarse voice behind me . 
The old lobster smack's sail caught the breeze again at this moment , and she moved off down the bay . 
Turning , I found old Elijah Tilley , who had come softly out of his dark fish house , as if it were a burrow . 
Boy got kind o' drowsy steerin' of her Monroe he hove him right overboard 'wake now fast enough , explained Mr. Tilley , and we laughed together . 
At first he had seemed to be one of those evasive and uncomfortable persons who are so suspicious of you that they make you almost suspicious of yourself . 
Mr. Elijah Tilley appeared to regard a stranger with scornful indifference . 
You might see him standing on the pebble beach or in a fish house doorway , but when you came nearer he was gone . 
There were four of these large old men at the Landing , who were the survivors of an earlier and more vigorous generation . 
There was an alliance and understanding between them , so close that it was apparently speechless . 
As a matter of fact no boat could help being steady and way wise under their instant direction and companionship . 
Abel's boat and Jonathan Bowden's boat were as distinct and experienced personalities as the men themselves , and as inexpressive . 
They made brief statements to one another from time to time . 
As you came to know them you wondered more and more that they should talk at all . 
Speech seemed to be a light and elegant accomplishment , and their unexpected acquaintance with its arts made them of new value to the listener . 
They've gone together ever since they were boys , they know most everything about the sea amon'st them , he told me once . 
They was always just as you see 'em now since the memory of man . 
Mr. Tilley was carrying a small haddock in one hand , and presently shifted it to the other hand lest it might touch my skirt . 
I knew that my company was accepted , and we walked together a little way . 
You mean to have a good supper , I ventured to say , by way of friendliness . 
Goin' to have this 'ere haddock an' some o' my good baked potatoes must eat to live , responded my companion with great pleasantness and open approval . 
I found that I had suddenly left the forbidding coast and come into the smooth little harbor of friendship . 
You ain't never been up to my place , said the old man . 
Folks don't come now as they used to no , 'tain't no use to ask folks now . 
My poor dear she was a great hand to draw young company . 
I remembered that Mrs. Todd had once said that this old fisherman had been sore stricken and unconsoled at the death of his wife . 
Was there a good catch to day ? I asked , stopping a moment . 
I didn't happen to be on the shore when the boats came in . 
No all come in pretty light , answered Mr. Tilley . 
Addicks an' Bowden they done the best Abel an' me we had but a slim fare . 
We went out 'arly , but not so 'arly as sometimes looked like a poor mornin' . 
I got nine haddick , all small , and seven fish the rest on 'em got more fish than haddick . 
Well , I don't expect they feel like bitin' every day we l'arn to humor 'em a little , an' let 'em have their way 'bout it . 
These plaguey dog fish kind of worry 'em . 
I could not see a bush or a brier anywhere within its walls , and hardly a stray pebble showed itself . 
This was most surprising in that country of firm ledges , and scattered stones which all the walls that industry could devise had hardly begun to clear away off the land . 
I went up the field , following the smooth little path to the side door . 
These were not his fishing clothes . 
Folks laughed at me when I first bought this place an' come here to live , he explained . 
They said 'twa'n't no kind of a field privilege at all no place to raise anything , all full o' stones . 
I was aware 'twas good land , an' I worked some on it odd times when I didn't have nothin' else on hand till I cleared them loose stones all out . 
You never see a prettier piece than 'tis now now did ye ? Well , as for them painted marks , them's my buoys . 
I struck on to some heavy rocks that didn't show none , but a plow'd be liable to ground on 'em , an' so I ketched holt an' buoyed 'em same's you see . 
They don't trouble me no more'n if they wa'n't there . 
You haven't been to sea for nothing , I said laughing . 
One trade helps another , said Elijah with an amiable smile . 
Come right in an' set down . 
Come in an' rest ye , he exclaimed , and led the way into his comfortable kitchen . 
The sunshine poured in at the two further windows , and a cat was curled up sound asleep on the table that stood between them . 
I ventured to say that somebody must be a very good housekeeper . 
That's me , acknowledged the old fisherman with frankness . 
There ain't nobody here but me . 
I try to keep things looking right , same's poor dear left 'em . 
You set down here in this chair , then you can look off an' see the water . 
I was the only one knew just how she liked to have things set , poor dear , an' I said I was goin' to make shift , and I have made shift . 
I'd rather tough it out alone . 
And he sighed heavily , as if to sigh were his familiar consolation . 
We were both silent for a minute the old man looked out the window , as if he had forgotten I was there . 
You must miss her very much ? I said at last . 
I do miss her , he answered , and sighed again . 
Folks all kep' repeatin' that time would ease me , but I can't find it does . 
No , I miss her just the same every day . 
How long is it since she died ? I asked . 
Eight year now , come the first of October . 
It don't seem near so long . 
I've got a sister that comes and stops 'long o' me a little spell , spring an' fall , an' odd times if I send after her . 
I ain't near so good a hand to sew as I be to knit , and she's very quick to set everything to rights . 
She's a married woman with a family her son's folks lives at home , an' I can't make no great claim on her time . 
But it makes me a kind o' good excuse , when I do send , to help her a little she ain't none too well off . 
Poor dear always liked her , and we used to contrive our ways together . 
'Tis full as easy to be alone . 
I set here an' think it all over , an' think considerable when the weather's bad to go outside . 
I get so some days it feels as if poor dear might step right back into this kitchen . 
I keep a watchin' them doors as if she might step in to ary one . 
Yes , ma'am , I keep a lookin' off an' droppin' o' my stitches that's just how it seems . 
I can't git over losin' of her no way nor no how . 
Yes , ma'am , that's just how it seems to me . 
I did not say anything , and he did not look up . 
I git feelin' so sometimes I have to lay everything by an' go out door . 
She was a sweet pretty creatur' long's she lived , the old man added mournfully . 
I wish I had known her Mrs. Todd told me about your wife one day , I said . 
You'd have liked to come and see her all the folks did , said poor Elijah . 
She'd been so pleased to hear everything and see somebody new that took such an int'rest . 
She had a kind o' gift to make it pleasant for folks . 
There , 'tain't so much matter , I shall be done afore a great while . 
No I sha'n't trouble the fish a great sight more . 
The old widower sat with his head bowed over his knitting , as if he were hastily shortening the very thread of time . 
The minutes went slowly by . 
He stopped his work and clasped his hands firmly together . 
I saw he had forgotten his guest , and I kept the afternoon watch with him . 
At last he looked up as if but a moment had passed of his continual loneliness . 
Yes , ma'am , I'm one that has seen trouble , he said , and began to knit again . 
I used to laugh at her , poor dear , said Elijah , as if he read my thought . 
I used to make light of her timid notions . 
She used to be fearful when I was out in bad weather or baffled about gittin' ashore . 
She used to say the time seemed long to her , but I've found out all about it now . 
I used to be dreadful thoughtless when I was a young man and the fish was bitin' well . 
I'd stay out late some o' them days , an' I expect she'd watch an' watch an' lose heart a waitin' . 
That's real chiny , all of it on those two shelves , he told me proudly . 
I bought it all myself , when we was first married , in the port of Bordeaux . 
They didn't want me to go an' think they done it . 
Poor dear ! I had to put right out o' the house when I see that . 
I knowed in one minute how 'twas . 
She couldn't think 'twould vex me , 'twas her own hurt pride . 
I guess there wa'n't no other secret ever lay between us . 
The French cups with their gay sprigs of pink and blue , the best tumblers , an old flowered bowl and tea caddy , and a japanned waiter or two adorned the shelves . 
These , with a few daguerreotypes in a little square pile , had the closet to themselves , and I was conscious of much pleasure in seeing them . 
One is shown over many a house in these days where the interest may be more complex , but not more definite . 
Those were her best things , poor dear , said Elijah as he locked the door again . 
I was goin' over to the Port , an' inquired for errands . 
It kind o' chilled me up when she spoke so satisfied . 
You don't go out fishing after Christmas ? I asked , as we came back to the bright kitchen . 
No I take stiddy to my knitting after January sets in , said the old seafarer . 
'Tain't worth while , fish make off into deeper water an' you can't stand no such perishin' for the sake o' what you get . 
I leave out a few traps in sheltered coves an' do a little lobsterin' on fair days . 
Mother learnt me once when I was a lad she was a beautiful knitter herself . 
I was laid up with a bad knee , an' she said 'twould take up my time an' help her we was a large family . 
They'll buy all the folks can do down here to Addicks' store . 
They say our Dunnet stockin's is gettin' to be celebrated up to Boston , good quality o' wool an' even knittin' or somethin' . 
I've always been called a pretty hand to do nettin' , but seines is master cheap to what they used to be when they was all hand worked . 
I change off to nettin' long towards spring , and I piece up my trawls and lines and get my fishin' stuff to rights . 
Lobster pots they require attention , but I make 'em up in spring weather when it's warm there in the barn . 
No I ain't one o' them that likes to set an' do nothin' . 
You see the rugs , poor dear did them she wa'n't very partial to knittin' , old Elijah went on , after he had counted his stitches . 
Our rugs is beginnin' to show wear , but I can't master none o' them womanish tricks . 
My sister , she tinkers 'em up . 
She said last time she was here that she guessed they'd last my time . 
The old ones are always the prettiest , I said . 
You ain't referrin' to the braided ones now ? answered Mr. Tilley . 
You see ours is braided for the most part , an' their good looks is all in the beginnin' . 
Poor dear used to say they made an easier floor . 
I go shufflin' round the house same's if 'twas a bo't , and I always used to be stubbin' up the corners o' the hooked kind . 
Her an' me was always havin' our jokes together same's a boy an' girl . 
Outsiders never'd know nothin' about it to see us . 
She had nice manners with all , but to me there was nobody so entertainin' . 
She'd take off anybody's natural talk winter evenin's when we set here alone , so you'd think 'twas them a speakin' . 
There , there ! I saw that he had dropped a stitch again , and was snarling the blue yarn round his clumsy fingers . 
He handled it and threw it off at arm's length as if it were a cod line and frowned impatiently , but I saw a tear shining on his cheek . 
I said that I must be going , it was growing late , and asked if I might come again , and if he would take me out to the fishing grounds someday . 
Yes , come any time you want to , said my host , 'tain't so pleasant as when poor dear was here . 
Oh , I didn't want to lose her an' she didn't want to go , but it had to be . 
Such things ain't for us to say there's no yes an' no to it . 
You find Almiry Todd one o' the best o' women ? said Mr. Tilley as we parted . 
He was standing in the doorway and I had started off down the narrow green field . 
No , there ain't a better hearted woman in the State o' Maine . 
I've known her from a girl . 
She's had the best o' mothers . 
You tell her I'm liable to fetch her up a couple or three nice good mackerel early tomorrow , he said . 
Now don't let it slip your mind . 
Poor dear , she always thought a sight o' Almiry , and she used to remind me there was nobody to fish for her but I don't rec'lect it as I ought to . 
I see you drop a line yourself very handy now an' then . 
We laughed together like the best of friends , and I spoke again about the fishing grounds , and confessed that I had no fancy for a southerly breeze and a ground swell . 
Nor me neither , said the old fisherman . 
Nobody likes 'em , say what they may . 
Poor dear was disobliged by the mere sight of a bo't . 
I never set out to worry her neither , 'twa'n't no kind o' use she was so pleasant we couldn't have no fret nor trouble . 
Poor dear , I repeated to myself half aloud I wonder where she is and what she knows of the little world she left . 
I wonder what she has been doing these eight years ! I gave the message about the mackerel to Mrs. Todd . 
Been visitin' with 'Lijah ? she asked with interest . 
I expect you had kind of a dull session he ain't the talkin' kind dwellin' so much long o' fish seems to make 'em lose the gift o' speech . 
But when I told her that Mr. Tilley had been talking to me that day , she interrupted me quickly . 
Then 'twas all about his wife , an' he can't say nothin' too pleasant neither . 
She was modest with strangers , but there ain't one o' her old friends can ever make up her loss . 
For me , I don't want to go there no more . 
There's some folks you miss and some folks you don't , when they're gone , but there ain't hardly a day I don't think o' dear Sarah Tilley . 
She was always right there yes , you knew just where to find her like a plain flower . 
'Lijah's worthy enough I do esteem 'Lijah , but he's a ploddin' man . 
The sunshine of a northern summer was coming to its lovely end . 
The days were few then at Dunnet Landing , and I let each of them slip away unwillingly as a miser spends his coins . 
I wished to have one of my first weeks back again , with those long hours when nothing happened except the growth of herbs and the course of the sun . 
Once I had not even known where to go for a walk now there were many delightful things to be done and done again , as if I were in London . 
I felt hurried and full of pleasant engagements , and the days flew by like a handful of flowers flung to the sea wind . 
Mrs. Todd had hardly spoken all day except in the briefest and most disapproving way it was as if we were on the edge of a quarrel . 
It seemed impossible to take my departure with anything like composure . 
At last I heard a footstep , and looked up to find that Mrs. Todd was standing at the door . 
I've seen to everything now , she told me in an unusually loud and business like voice . 
Your trunks are on the w'arf by this time . 
Cap'n Bowden he come and took 'em down himself , an' is going to see that they're safe aboard . 
Yes , I've seen to all your 'rangements , she repeated in a gentler tone . 
These things I've left on the kitchen table you'll want to carry by hand the basket needn't be returned . 
I guess I shall walk over towards the Port now an' inquire how old Mis' Edward Caplin is . 
I glanced at my friend's face , and saw a look that touched me to the heart . 
I had been sorry enough before to go away . 
I guess you'll excuse me if I ain't down there to stand around on the w'arf and see you go , she said , still trying to be gruff . 
When I went in again the little house had suddenly grown lonely , and my room looked empty as it had the day I came . 
I and all my belongings had died out of it , and I knew how it would seem when Mrs. Todd came back and found her lodger gone . 
So we die before our own eyes so we see some chapters of our lives come to their natural end . 
I found the little packages on the kitchen table . 
I could see Green Island , small and darkly wooded at that distance below me were the houses of the village with their apple trees and bits of garden ground . 
At such a distance one can feel the large , positive qualities that control a character . 
As I came away on the little coastwise steamer , there was an old sea running which made the surf leap high on all the rocky shores . 
The tide was setting in , and plenty of small fish were coming with it , unconscious of the silver flashing of the great birds overhead and the quickness of their fierce beaks . 
Out in the main channel we passed a bent shouldered old fisherman bound for the evening round among his lobster traps . 
He was toiling along with short oars , and the dory tossed and sank and tossed again with the steamer's waves . 
As we passed I waved my hand and tried to call to him , and he looked up and answered my farewells by a solemn nod . 
