The non english portions need proofing badly ! i have neglected them for the most part . 
my use of ? ? marks are spots that need to be checked with another printing or edition as something seems missing but i cannot say what . 
The poetry may have errors , particularly end of line punctuation . 
Illustration captions removed from text but list at front is still there because of references to them in the preface . 
Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Yet is it a little window , that looketh upon a great world . 
PREFACE For offering this new edition of my father's Phantastes , my reasons are three . 
With the copyright I secured also the whole of that edition and turned it into pulp . 
My second reason is to pay a small tribute to my father by way of personal gratitude for this , his first prose work , which was published nearly fifty years ago . 
Though unknown to many lovers of his greater writings , none of these has exceeded it in imaginative insight and power of expression . 
To me it rings with the dominant chord of his life's purpose and work . 
My third reason is that wider knowledge and love of the book should be made possible . 
To this end I have been most happy in the help of my father's old friend , who has illustrated the book . 
Darum ist die Natur so rein poetisch wle die Stube eines Zauberers , eines Physikers , eine Kinderstube elne Polterund Vorrathskammer Ein Mahrchen ist wie ein Traumbild ohne Zusammenhang . 
Ein Ensemble wunderbarer Dinge und Begebenheiten , z . 
B. eine dMusNkalische Pbantasie , die harmonischen Folgen einer Aeolsharfe , die Natur slebst . 
I awoke one morning with the usual perplexity of mind which accompanies the return of consciousness . 
The day before had been my one and twentieth birthday . 
Among other ceremonies investing me with my legal rights , the keys of an old secretary , in which my father had kept his private papers , had been delivered up to me . 
But the door of a little cupboard in the centre especially attracted my interest , as if there lay the secret of this long hidden world . 
One of the rusty hinges cracked and broke as I opened the door it revealed a number of small pigeon holes . 
Behind , I found a sort of flexible portcullis of small bars of wood laid close together horizontally . 
After long search , and trying many ways to move it , I discovered at last a scarcely projecting point of steel on one side . 
I am not going to argue with you , however , but to grant you a wish . 
Form is much , but size is nothing . 
It is a mere matter of relation . 
But size is of so little consequence with old me , that I may as well accommodate myself to your foolish prejudices . 
So saying , she leapt from the desk upon the floor , where she stood a tall , gracious lady , with pale face and large blue eyes . 
Her dark hair flowed behind , wavy but uncurled , down to her waist , and against it her form stood clear in its robe of white . 
Now , said she , you will believe me . 
Besides , I was two hundred and thirty seven years old , last Midsummer eve and a man must not fall in love with his grandmother , you know . 
But you are not my grandmother , said I. How do you know that ? she retorted . 
I dare say you know something of your great grandfathers a good deal further back than that but you know very little about your great grandmothers on either side . 
Now , to the point . 
Your little sister was reading a fairy tale to you last night . 
I did but I meant something quite different from what you seem to think . 
Never mind what I seem to think . 
You shall find the way into Fairy Land to morrow . 
Now look in my eyes . 
They filled me with an unknown longing . 
I remembered somehow that my mother died when I was a baby . 
I looked deeper and deeper , till they spread around me like seas , and I sank in their waters . 
Below lay a sea , still as death and hoary in the moon , sweeping into bays and around capes and islands , away , away , I knew not whither . 
Alas ! it was no sea , but a low bog burnished by the moon . 
Surely there is such a sea somewhere ! said I to myself . 
A low sweet voice beside me replied In Fairy Land , Anodos . 
I turned , but saw no one . 
I closed the secretary , and went to my own room , and to bed . 
All this I recalled as I lay with half closed eyes . 
I was soon to find the truth of the lady's promise , that this day I should discover the road into Fairy Land . 
CHAPTER II Where is the stream ? cried he , with tears . 
Seest thou its not in blue waves above us ? He looked up , and lo ! the blue stream was flowing gently over their heads . 
NOVALIS , Heinrich von Ofterdingen . 
My dressing table was an old fashioned piece of furniture of black oak , with drawers all down the front . 
These were elaborately carved in foliage , of which ivy formed the chief part . 
The nearer end of this table remained just as it had been , but on the further end a singular change had commenced . 
I happened to fix my eye on a little cluster of ivy leaves . 
Hearing next a slight motion above me , I looked up , and saw that the branches and leaves designed upon the curtains of my bed were slightly in motion . 
After washing as well as I could in the clear stream , I rose and looked around me . 
The tree under which I seemed to have lain all night was one of the advanced guard of a dense forest , towards which the rivulet ran . 
Faint traces of a footpath , much overgrown with grass and moss , and with here and there a pimpernel even , were discernible along the right bank . 
This , thought I , must surely be the path into Fairy Land , which the lady of last night promised I should so soon find . 
I crossed the rivulet , and accompanied it , keeping the footpath on its right bank , until it led me , as I expected , into the wood . 
Here I left it , without any good reason and with a vague feeling that I ought to have followed its course , I took a more southerly direction . 
CHAPTER III Man doth usurp all space , Stares thee , in rock , bush , river , in the face . 
Never thine eyes behold a tree 'Tis no sea thou seest in the sea , 'Tis but a disguised humanity . 
To avoid thy fellow , vain thy plan All that interests a man , is man . 
I seemed to be advancing towards a second midnight . 
She did not seem to observe me , for she was apparently intent upon a bunch of wild flowers which she carried in her hand . 
I could hardly see her face for , though she came direct towards me , she never looked up . 
But when we met , instead of passing , she turned and walked alongside of me for a few yards , still keeping her face downwards , and busied with her flowers . 
She spoke rapidly , however , all the time , in a low tone , as if talking to herself , but evidently addressing the purport of her words to me . 
She seemed afraid of being observed by some lurking foe . 
Trust the Oak , said she trust the Oak , and the Elm , and the great Beech . 
Take care of the Birch , for though she is honest , she is too young not to be changeable . 
All this was uttered without pause or alteration of tone . 
Then she turned suddenly and left me , walking still with the same unchanging gait . 
For soon I came to a more open part , and by and by crossed a wide grassy glade , on which were several circles of brighter green . 
But even here I was struck with the utter stillness . 
Not a living creature crossed my way . 
Yet somehow the whole environment seemed only asleep , and to wear even in sleep an air of expectation . 
The trees seemed all to have an expression of conscious mystery , as if they said to themselves , we could , an' if we would . 
They had all a meaning look about them . 
Then I remembered that night is the fairies' day , and the moon their sun and I thought Everything sleeps and dreams now when the night comes , it will be different . 
But I took courage and went on . 
Soon , however , I became again anxious , though from another cause . 
I had eaten nothing that day , and for an hour past had been feeling the want of food . 
So I grew afraid lest I should find nothing to meet my human necessities in this strange place but once more I comforted myself with hope and went on . 
I wondered at finding a human dwelling in this neighbourhood and yet it did not look altogether human , though sufficiently so to encourage me to expect to find some sort of food . 
Seeing no door , I went round to the other side , and there I found one , wide open . 
A woman sat beside it , preparing some vegetables for dinner . 
This was homely and comforting . 
As soon as she had shut the door and set a chair You have fairy blood in you , said she , looking hard at me . 
I think I see it . 
What do you see ? Oh , never mind I may be mistaken in that . 
But how then do you come to live here ? Because I too have fairy blood in me . 
I noticed too that her hands were delicately formed , though brown with work and exposure . 
I should be ill , she continued , if I did not live on the borders of the fairies' country , and now and then eat of their food . 
I remembered what the lady had said about my grandmothers . 
I now thought it time to try to get some explanation of the strange words both of her daughter and herself . 
What did you mean by speaking so about the Ash ? She rose and looked out of the little window . 
My eyes followed her but as the window was too small to allow anything to be seen from where I was sitting , I rose and looked over her shoulder . 
And the sooner it grows dark , the sooner the Ash will be awake , added she . 
I asked her how she knew that there was any unusual excitement in the woods . 
So do I , in another way . 
At this instant , a grey cat rushed in like a demon , and disappeared in a hole in the wall . 
There , I told you ! said the woman . 
But what of the ash tree ? said I , returning once more to the subject . 
Here , however , the young woman , whom I had met in the morning , entered . 
A smile passed between the mother and daughter and then the latter began to help her mother in little household duties . 
I should like to stay here till the evening , I said and then go on my journey , if you will allow me . 
You are welcome to do as you please only it might be better to stay all night , than risk the dangers of the wood then . 
However , no one comes here but for some reason , either known to himself or to those who have charge of him so you shall do just as you wish . 
Accordingly I sat down , and feeling rather tired , and disinclined for further talk , I asked leave to look at the old book which still screened the window . 
The woman brought it to me directly , but not before taking another look towards the forest , and then drawing a white blind over the window . 
I sat down opposite to it by the table , on which I laid the great old volume , and read . 
It contained many wondrous tales of Fairy Land , and olden times , and the Knights of King Arthur's table . 
I read on and on , till the shades of the afternoon began to deepen for in the midst of the forest it gloomed earlier than in the open country . 
At length I came to this passage Here it chanced , that upon their quest , Sir Galahad and Sir Percivale rencountered in the depths of a great forest . 
And yet withouten squire or page , Sir Galahad's armour shone like the moon . 
And he rode a great white mare , whose bases and other housings were black , but all besprent with fair lilys of silver sheen . 
Now it came about in this wise . 
He is almost awake , mother and greedier than usual to night . 
Pray , keep out of his way to night . 
Shall I be able to see these things ? said I. That I cannot tell yet , not knowing how much of the fairy nature there is in you . 
But we shall soon see whether you can discern the fairies in my little garden , and that will be some guide to us . 
Are the trees fairies too , as well as the flowers ? I asked . 
They are of the same race , she replied though those you call fairies in your country are chiefly the young children of the flower fairies . 
They are very fond of having fun with the thick people , as they call you for , like most children , they like fun better than anything else . 
Sometimes they will act a whole play through before my eyes , with perfect composure and assurance , for they are not afraid of me . 
Only , as soon as they have done , they burst into peals of tiny laughter , as if it was such a joke to have been serious over anything . 
These I speak of , however , are the fairies of the garden . 
They are more staid and educated than those of the fields and woods . 
Now and then , however , they are compelled to envy the grace and simplicity of the natural flowers . 
Do they live IN the flowers ? I said . 
I cannot tell , she replied . 
There is something in it I do not understand . 
Sometimes they disappear altogether , even from me , though I know they are near . 
They have as many sorts of dispositions as men and women , while their moods are yet more variable twenty different expressions will cross their little faces in half a minute . 
I often amuse myself with watching them , but I have never been able to make personal acquaintance with any of them . 
If I speak to one , he or she looks up in my face , as if I were not worth heeding , gives a little laugh , and runs away . 
The flowers seem a sort of houses for them , or outer bodies , which they can put on or off when they please . 
For the house or the clothes , though like the inhabitant or the wearer , cannot be wrought into an equal power of utterance . 
Yet you would see a strange resemblance , almost oneness , between the flower and the fairy , which you could not describe , but which described itself to you . 
Whether all the flowers have fairies , I cannot determine , any more than I can be sure whether all men and women have souls . 
The woman and I continued the conversation for a few minutes longer . 
I was much interested by the information she gave me , and astonished at the language in which she was able to convey it . 
It seemed that intercourse with the fairies was no bad education in itself . 
I pulled out my purse , but to my dismay there was nothing in it . 
They would think , she added , that you were making game of them and that is their peculiar privilege with regard to us . 
So we went together into the little garden which sloped down towards a lower part of the wood . 
Here , to my great pleasure , all was life and bustle . 
There was still light enough from the day to see a little and the pale half moon , halfway to the zenith , was reviving every moment . 
Some were launched on a little marshy stream at the bottom , in boats chosen from the heaps of last year's leaves that lay about , curled and withered . 
These soon sank with them whereupon they swam ashore and got others . 
You can't wear half you've got , said some . 
Never you mind I don't choose you to have them they are my property . 
All for the good of the community ! said one , and ran off with a great hollow leaf . 
, knocked him heels over head as he ran , and recovered her great red leaf . 
At last , after another good cry , she chose the biggest she could find , and ran away laughing , to launch her boat amongst the rest . 
But my attention was first and chiefly attracted by a group of fairies near the cottage , who were talking together around what seemed a last dying primrose . 
They talked singing , and their talk made a song , something like this Sister Snowdrop died Before we were born . 
She came like a bride In a snowy morn . 
What's a bride ? What is snow ? Never tried . 
Who told you about her ? Little Primrose there Cannot do without her . 
Oh , so sweetly fair ! Never fear , She will come , Primrose dear . 
Is she dumb ? She'll come by and by . 
You will never see her . 
She went home to dies , Till the new year . 
Snowdrop ! 'Tis no good To invite her . 
Primrose is very rude , I will bite her . 
Oh , you naughty Pocket ! Look , she drops her head . 
She deserved it , Rocket , And she was nearly dead . 
To your hammock off with you ! And swing alone . 
No one will laugh with you . 
Deeper , poor creature ! Winter may come . 
He cannot reach her That is a hum . 
She is buried , the beauty ! Now she is done . 
And with a wild laugh they sprang away , most of them towards the cottage . 
They bore her solemnly along some distance , and then buried her under a tree . 
Although I say HER I saw nothing but the withered primrose flower on its long stalk . 
Pocket , who had been expelled from the company by common consent , went sulkily away towards her hammock , for she was the fairy of the calceolaria , and looked rather wicked . 
When she reached its stem , she stopped and looked round . 
I could not help speaking to her , for I stood near her . 
Indeed , there were more instruments at work about her than there could have been sparks in her . 
Now , Pussy , be patient . 
You know quite well it is all for your good . 
Never mind , never mind , we shall find her again and by that time she will have laid in a fresh stock of sparks . 
Hooray ! And off they set , after some new mischief . 
But I will not linger to enlarge on the amusing display of these frolicsome creatures . 
I cannot help wishing , however , that my readers could see them for themselves . 
CHAPTER IV When bale is att hyest , boote is nyest . 
By this time , my hostess was quite anxious that I should be gone . 
So , with warm thanks for their hospitality , I took my leave , and went my way through the little garden towards the forest . 
Some of the garden flowers had wandered into the wood , and were growing here and there along the path , but the trees soon became too thick and shadowy for them . 
I particularly noticed some tall lilies , which grew on both sides of the way , with large dazzlingly white flowers , set off by the universal green . 
It was now dark enough for me to see that every flower was shining with a light of its own . 
But they had their enemies here . 
Wondering what their object could be , I watched one of the beetles , and then I discovered a thing I could not account for . 
What I saw was this . 
Everywhere , here and there over the ground , lay little , dark looking lumps of something more like earth than anything else , and about the size of a chestnut . 
The beetles hunted in couples for these and having found one , one of them stayed to watch it , while the other hurried to find a glowworm . 
They never used the same glowworm twice , I observed but let him go , apparently uninjured by the use they had made of him . 
Here and there , whole mighty trees glowed with an emitted phosphorescent light . 
Soon a vague sense of discomfort possessed me . 
With variations of relief , this gradually increased as if some evil thing were wandering about in my neighbourhood , sometimes nearer and sometimes further off , but still approaching . 
What I feared I could not tell . 
To add to my distress , the clouds in the west had risen nearly to the top of the skies , and they and the moon were travelling slowly towards each other . 
Indeed , some of their advanced guard had already met her , and she had begun to wade through a filmy vapour that gradually deepened . 
At length she was for a moment almost entirely obscured . 
Especially I remarked , even in the midst of my fear , the bulbous points of the fingers . 
I looked hurriedly all around , but could see nothing from which such a shadow should fall . 
I looked , and peered , and intensified my vision , all to no purpose . 
I could see nothing of that kind , not even an ash tree in the neighbourhood . 
There seemed but one mode left of discovering the substance of this shadow . 
The hand was uplifted in the attitude of a paw about to strike its prey . 
I do not know how to describe it . 
It caused a new sensation . 
Just as one cannot translate a horrible odour , or a ghastly pain , or a fearful sound , into words , so I cannot describe this new form of awful hideousness . 
I can only try to describe something that is not it , but seems somewhat parallel to it or at least is suggested by it . 
The features were rather handsome than otherwise , except the mouth , which had scarcely a curve in it . 
The lips were of equal thickness but the thickness was not at all remarkable , even although they looked slightly swollen . 
They seemed fixedly open , but were not wide apart . 
Of course I did not REMARK these lineaments at the time I was too horrified for that . 
I noted them afterwards , when the form returned on my inward sight with a vividness too intense to admit of my doubting the accuracy of the reflex . 
But the most awful of the features were the eyes . 
These were alive , yet not with life . 
They seemed lighted up with an infinite greed . 
A gnawing voracity , which devoured the devourer , seemed to be the indwelling and propelling power of the whole ghostly apparition . 
I sprang to my feet , and sped I knew not whither , only away from the spectre . 
I thought no longer of the path , and often narrowly escaped dashing myself against a tree , in my headlong flight of fear . 
Great drops of rain began to patter on the leaves . 
Thunder began to mutter , then growl in the distance . 
At length the thick leaves could hold it up no longer and , like a second firmament , they poured their torrents on the earth . 
I was soon drenched , but that was nothing . 
I came to a small swollen stream that rushed through the woods . 
I dashed across the stream , ascended a rising ground , and reached a more open space , where stood only great trees . 
Through them I directed my way , holding eastward as nearly as I could guess , but not at all certain that I was not moving in an opposite direction . 
Half stunned , I yet raised myself , and almost involuntarily looked back . 
All I saw was the hand within three feet of my face . 
With that , the hand was suddenly withdrawn as from a fire , and disappeared in the darkness and the rain . 
Overcome with the mingling of terror and joy , I lay for some time almost insensible . 
It murmured over and over again I may love him , I may love him for he is a man , and I am only a beech tree . 
I turned my head , but without moving otherwise , for I feared lest the arms should untwine themselves and clear , somewhat mournful eyes met mine . 
At least that is how they impressed me but I could see very little of colour or outline as we sat in the dark and rainy shadow of the tree . 
The face seemed very lovely , and solemn from its stillness with the aspect of one who is quite content , but waiting for something . 
I saw my conjecture from her arms was correct she was above the human scale throughout , but not greatly . 
Why do you call yourself a beech tree ? I said . 
Because I am one , she replied , in the same low , musical , murmuring voice . 
You are a woman , I returned . 
Do you think so ? Am I very like a woman then ? You are a very beautiful woman . 
Is it possible you should not know it ? I am very glad you think so . 
I fancy I feel like a woman sometimes . 
I do so to night and always when the rain drips from my hair . 
For there is an old prophecy in our woods that one day we shall all be men and women like you . 
But I long to be a woman for all that . 
I had let her talk on , for her voice was like a solution of all musical sounds . 
I now told her that I could hardly say whether women were happy or not . 
I knew one who had not been happy and for my part , I had often longed for Fairy Land , as she now longed for the world of men . 
But then neither of us had lived long , and perhaps people grew happier as they grew older . 
I could not help sighing . 
She felt the sigh , for her arms were still round me . 
She asked me how old I was . 
Twenty one , said I. Why , you baby ! said she , and kissed me with the sweetest kiss of winds and odours . 
There was a cool faithfulness in the kiss that revived my heart wonderfully . 
I felt that I feared the dreadful Ash no more . 
What did the horrible Ash want with me ? I said . 
I am not quite sure , but I think he wants to bury you at the foot of his tree . 
But he shall not touch you , my child . 
Are all the ash trees as dreadful as he ? Oh , no . 
but this one has a hole in his heart that nobody knows of but one or two and he is always trying to fill it up , but he cannot . 
That must be what he wanted you for . 
I wonder if he will ever be a man . 
If he is , I hope they will kill him . 
How kind of you to save me from him ! I will take care that he shall not come near you again . 
But there are some in the wood more like me , from whom , alas ! I cannot protect you . 
Only if you see any of them very beautiful , try to walk round them . 
What then ? I cannot tell you more . 
But now I must tie some of my hair about you , and then the Ash will not touch you . 
Here , cut some off . 
You men have strange cutting things about you . 
She shook her long hair loose over me , never moving her arms . 
I cannot cut your beautiful hair . 
It would be a shame . 
Not cut my hair ! It will have grown long enough before any is wanted again in this wild forest . 
Perhaps it may never be of any use again not till I am a woman . 
As gently as I could , I cut with a knife a long tress of flowing , dark hair , she hanging her beautiful head over me . 
When I had finished , she shuddered and breathed deep , as one does when an acute pain , steadfastly endured without sign of suffering , is at length relaxed . 
I cannot put more of it into words . 
She closed her arms about me again , and went on singing . 
The rain in the leaves , and a light wind that had arisen , kept her song company . 
I was wrapt in a trance of still delight . 
It told me the secret of the woods , and the flowers , and the birds . 
Around me was a girdle of fresh beech leaves . 
Alas ! I brought nothing with me out of Fairy Land , but memories memories . 
The great boughs of the beech hung drooping around me . 
At my head rose its smooth stem , with its great sweeps of curving surface that swelled like undeveloped limbs . 
The leaves and branches above kept on the song which had sung me asleep only now , to my mind , it sounded like a farewell and a speedwell . 
I sat a long time , unwilling to go but my unfinished story urged me on . 
I must act and wander . 
With the sun well risen , I rose , and put my arms as far as they would reach around the beech tree , and kissed it , and said good bye . 
Sche was as whyt as lylye yn May , Or snow that sneweth yn wynterys day . 
I walked on , in the fresh morning air , as if new born . 
The only thing that damped my pleasure was a cloud of something between sorrow and delight that crossed my mind with the frequently returning thought of my last night's hostess . 
But then , thought I , if she is sorry , I could not help it and she has all the pleasures she ever had . 
Such a day as this is surely a joy to her , as much at least as to me . 
And her life will perhaps be the richer , for holding now within it the memory of what came , but could not stay . 
And if ever she is a woman , who knows but we may meet somewhere ? there is plenty of room for meeting in the universe . 
Comforting myself thus , yet with a vague compunction , as if I ought not to have left her , I went on . 
Whether this came from utter ignorance , or from familiarity with the human appearance of beings who never hurt them , I could not tell . 
Now and then , too , a dim human figure would appear and disappear , at some distance , amongst the trees , moving like a sleep walker . 
But no one ever came near me . 
This day I found plenty of food in the forest strange nuts and fruits I had never seen before . 
I hesitated to eat them but argued that , if I could live on the air of Fairy Land , I could live on its food also . 
The human forms appeared much more dense and defined more tangibly visible , if I may say so . 
I seemed to know better which direction to choose when any doubt arose . 
I began to feel in some degree what the birds meant in their songs , though I could not express it in words , any more than you can some landscapes . 
At times , to my surprise , I found myself listening attentively , and as if it were no unusual thing with me , to a conversation between two squirrels or monkeys . 
There was no great difference in kind between their talk and our ordinary human conversation . 
Some of the creatures I never heard speak at all , and believe they never do so , except under the impulse of some great excitement . 
The mice talked but the hedgehogs seemed very phlegmatic and though I met a couple of moles above ground several times , they never said a word to each other in my hearing . 
There were no wild beasts in the forest at least , I did not see one larger than a wild cat . 
There were plenty of snakes , however , and I do not think they were all harmless but none ever bit me . 
Over this my way seemed to lie , and I immediately began the ascent . 
On reaching the top , hot and weary , I looked around me , and saw that the forest still stretched as far as the sight could reach on every side of me . 
I tried it , and found the descent not at all laborious nevertheless , when I reached the bottom , I was very tired and exhausted with the heat . 
I entered , thirsting for the shade which it promised . 
I drank , and felt as if I knew what the elixir of life must be then threw myself on a mossy mound that lay like a couch along the inner end . 
This , after some pondering , I concluded to represent Pygmalion , as he awaited the quickening of his statue . 
The sculptor sat more rigid than the figure to which his eyes were turned . 
That seemed about to step from its pedestal and embrace the man , who waited rather than expected . 
A lovely story , I said to myself . 
In fact , it was alabaster . 
I continued my labour and after clearing a space of about a couple of square feet , I observed what caused me to prosecute the work with more interest and care than before . 
I was careful to scratch no more . 
What I did see appeared to me perfectly lovely more near the face that had been born with me in my soul , than anything I had seen before in nature or art . 
Numberless histories passed through my mind of change of substance from enchantment and other causes , and of imprisonments such as this before me . 
I kneeled , however , and kissed the pale coffin but she slept on . 
I bethought me of Orpheus , and the following stones that trees should follow his music seemed nothing surprising now . 
Might not a song awake this form , that the glory of motion might for a time displace the loveliness of rest ? Sweet sounds can go where kisses may not enter . 
Now , although always delighting in music , I had never been gifted with the power of song , until I entered the fairy forest . 
I had a voice , and I had a true sense of sound but when I tried to sing , the one would not content the other , and so I remained silent . 
As I sang , I looked earnestly at the face so vaguely revealed before me . 
I gazed more earnestly , and concluded that it was but fancy . 
Or , if needing years to wake thee From thy slumbrous solitudes , Come , sleep walking , and betake thee To the friendly , sleeping woods . 
Sweeter dreams are in the forest , Round thee storms would never rave And when need of rest is sorest , Glide thou then into thy cave . 
And now I thought the hand that had lain under the cheek , had slipped a little downward . 
But then I could not be sure that I had at first observed its position accurately . 
Yea , I am dead for thou hast drawn My life all downward unto thee . 
Dead moon of love ! let twilight dawn Awake ! and let the darkness flee . 
Cold lady of the lovely stone ! Awake ! or I shall perish here And thou be never more alone , My form and I for ages near . 
But words are vain reject them all They utter but a feeble part Hear thou the depths from which they call , The voiceless longing of my heart . 
There arose a slightly crashing sound . 
I gazed after her in a kind of despair found , freed , lost ! It seemed useless to follow , yet follow I must . 
I marked the direction she took and without once looking round to the forsaken cave , I hastened towards the forest . 
CHAPTER VI Ah , let a man beware , when his wishes , fulfilled , rain down upon him , and his happiness is unbounded . 
Thy red lips , like worms , Travel over my cheek . 
But as I crossed the space between the foot of the hill and the forest , a vision of another kind delayed my steps . 
Through an opening to the westward flowed , like a stream , the rays of the setting sun , and overflowed with a ruddy splendour the open space where I was . 
And riding as it were down this stream towards me , came a horseman in what appeared red armour . 
From frontlet to tail , the horse likewise shone red in the sunset . 
I felt as if I must have seen the knight before but as he drew near , I could recall no feature of his countenance . 
And no wonder for when he came close up to me , I saw that , from crest to heel , the whole surface of his armour was covered with a light rust . 
The golden spurs shone , but the iron greaves glowed in the sunlight . 
The MORNING STAR , which hung from his wrist , glittered and glowed with its silver and bronze . 
His whole appearance was terrible but his face did not answer to this appearance . 
It was sad , even to gloominess and something of shame seemed to cover it . 
Yet it was noble and high , though thus beclouded and the form looked lofty , although the head drooped , and the whole frame was bowed as with an inward grief . 
The horse seemed to share in his master's dejection , and walked spiritless and slow . 
I noticed , too , that the white plume on his helmet was discoloured and drooping . 
He has fallen in a joust with spears , I said to myself yet it becomes not a noble knight to be conquered in spirit because his body hath fallen . 
He appeared not to observe me , for he was riding past without looking up , and started into a warlike attitude the moment the first sound of my voice reached him . 
Then a flush , as of shame , covered all of his face that the lifted beaver disclosed . 
He returned my greeting with distant courtesy , and passed on . 
But suddenly , he reined up , sat a moment still , and then turning his horse , rode back to where I stood looking after him . 
Then take heed , he rejoined for , see my armour I put it off and as it befell to him , so has it befallen to me . 
I that was proud am humble now . 
Yet is she terribly beautiful beware . 
Before I could inquire further , he had struck spurs into his horse and galloped away , shrouded from my voice in the noise of his armour . 
For I called after him , anxious to know more about this fearful enchantress but in vain he heard me not . 
Doubtless , some one man may escape , and I shall be he . 
So I went on into the wood , still hoping to find , in some one of its mysterious recesses , my lost lady of the marble . 
The sunny afternoon died into the loveliest twilight . 
Great bats began to flit about with their own noiseless flight , seemingly purposeless , because its objects are unseen . 
The monotonous music of the owl issued from all unexpected quarters in the half darkness around me . 
The glow worm was alight here and there , burning out into the great universe . 
The night hawk heightened all the harmony and stillness with his oft recurring , discordant jar . 
Numberless unknown sounds came out of the unknown dusk but all were of twilight kind , oppressing the heart as with a condensed atmosphere of dreamy undefined love and longing . 
The odours of night arose , and bathed me in that luxurious mournfulness peculiar to them , as if the plants whence they floated had been watered with bygone tears . 
Earth drew me towards her bosom I felt as if I could fall down and kiss her . 
I forgot I was in Fairy Land , and seemed to be walking in a perfect night of our own old nursing earth . 
Great boughs crossed my path great roots based the tree columns , and mightily clasped the earth , strong to lift and strong to uphold . 
It seemed an old , old forest , perfect in forest ways and pleasures . 
My voice burst into song so spontaneously that it seemed involuntarily . 
Scarcely had the last sounds floated away from the hearing of my own ears , when I heard instead a low delicious laugh near me . 
I started , and , turning sideways , saw a dim white figure seated beside an intertwining thicket of smaller trees and underwood . 
She withdrew her hand from mine , and after that would scarce allow me to touch her . 
It seemed strange , after the fulness of her first greeting , that she could not trust me to come close to her . 
Though her words were those of a lover , she kept herself withdrawn as if a mile of space interposed between us . 
Why did you run away from me when you woke in the cave ? I said . 
Did I ? she returned . 
That was very unkind of me but I did not know better . 
I wish I could see you . 
The night is very dark . 
Have you another cave , then ? Come and see . 
But she did not move until I rose first , and then she was on her feet before I could offer my hand to help her . 
She came close to my side , and conducted me through the wood . 
It was too dark to discern the expression of her face . 
Then she would return and walk close beside me again , as if nothing had happened . 
I knew not what she might have been dreaming about . 
Besides , it was possible that , while her words were free , her sense of touch might be exquisitely delicate . 
At length , after walking a long way in the woods , we arrived at another thicket , through the intertexture of which was glimmering a pale rosy light . 
Push aside the branches , she said , and make room for us to enter . 
I did as she told me . 
Go in , she said I will follow you . 
I did as she desired , and found myself in a little cave , not very unlike the marble cave . 
It was festooned and draperied with all kinds of green that cling to shady rocks . 
In the furthest corner , half hidden in leaves , through which it glowed , mingling lovely shadows between them , burned a bright rosy flame on a little earthen lamp . 
I then saw indeed a form of perfect loveliness before me . 
such a delicate shade of pink seemed to shadow what in itself must be a marbly whiteness of hue . 
It is strange that I cannot recall her features but they , as well as her somewhat girlish figure , left on me simply and only the impression of intense loveliness . 
I lay down at her feet , and gazed up into her face as I lay . 
I listened till she and I were blended with the tale till she and I were the whole history . 
What followed I cannot clearly remember . 
The succeeding horror almost obliterated it . 
I woke as a grey dawn stole into the cave . 
The damsel had disappeared but in the shrubbery , at the mouth of the cave , stood a strange horrible object . 
It looked like an open coffin set up on one end only that the part for the head and neck was defined from the shoulder part . 
In fact , it was a rough representation of the human frame , only hollow , as if made of decaying bark torn from a tree . 
It had arms , which were only slightly seamed , down from the shoulder blade by the elbow , as if the bark had healed again from the cut of a knife . 
But the arms moved , and the hand and the fingers were tearing asunder a long silky tress of hair . 
In the horror of the moment , another fear invaded me . 
I put my hand to my waist , and found indeed that my girdle of beech leaves was gone . 
Hair again in her hands , she was tearing it fiercely . 
I lay still , petrified with dismay and fear for I now saw another figure beside her , which , although vague and indistinct , I yet recognised but too well . 
It was the Ash tree . 
His ghoul eyes and his ghastly face fascinated me . 
He came stooping , with the hideous hand outstretched , like a beast of prey . 
The Ash shuddered and groaned , withdrew the outstretched hand , retreated backwards to the mouth of the cave , then turned and disappeared amongst the trees . 
The Maid of the Alder tree had befooled me nearly slain me in spite of all the warnings I had received from those who knew my danger . 
Ballad of Sir Andrew Barton . 
But I could not remain where I was any longer , though the daylight was hateful to me , and the thought of the great , innocent , bold sunrise unendurable . 
Here there was no well to cool my face , smarting with the bitterness of my own tears . 
Nor would I have washed in the well of that grotto , had it flowed clear as the rivers of Paradise . 
I rose , and feebly left the sepulchral cave . 
I took my way I knew not whither , but still towards the sunrise . 
The birds were singing but not for me . 
All the creatures spoke a language of their own , with which I had nothing to do , and to which I cared not to find the key any more . 
Upon this I pondered with undiminished perplexity , though not without some gain . 
I found afterwards that my conjecture was correct . 
I wondered how he had fared when his blows recalled the Ash himself , and that too I learned afterwards . 
An unspeakable joy arose in my heart at beholding an abode of human beings once more , and I hastened up to the door , and knocked . 
She soothed me right gently and , leading me into a room , made me lie down on a settle , while she went to find me some refreshment . 
She soon returned with food , but I could not eat . 
She almost compelled me to swallow some wine , when I revived sufficiently to be able to answer some of her questions . 
I told her the whole story . 
It is just as I feared , she said but you are now for the night beyond the reach of any of these dreadful creatures . 
It is no wonder they could delude a child like you . 
But I must beg you , when my husband comes in , not to say a word about these things for he thinks me even half crazy for believing anything of the sort . 
But I must believe my senses , as he cannot believe beyond his , which give him no intimations of this kind . 
I think he could spend the whole of Midsummer eve in the wood and come back with the report that he saw nothing worse than himself . 
Indeed , good man , he would hardly find anything better than himself , if he had seven more senses given him . 
But tell me how it is that she could be so beautiful without any heart at all without any place even for a heart to live in . 
I cannot quite tell , she said but I am sure she would not look so beautiful if she did not take means to make herself look more beautiful than she is . 
Here she left me to take some rest though , indeed , I was too much agitated to rest in any other way than by simply ceasing to move . 
In half an hour , I heard a heavy step approach and enter the house . 
A jolly voice , whose slight huskiness appeared to proceed from overmuch laughter , called out Betsy , the pigs' trough is quite empty , and that is a pity . 
Let them swill , lass ! They're of no use but to get fat . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! Gluttony is not forbidden in their commandments . 
I believed in Fairy Land again . 
She went on with her reading , as soon as she saw that I observed her looking at me . 
I went near , and peeping over her shoulder , saw that she was reading The History of Graciosa and Percinet . 
Very improving book , sir , remarked the old farmer , with a good humoured laugh . 
We are in the very hottest corner of Fairy Land here . 
Ha ! ha ! Stormy night , last night , sir . 
Was it , indeed ? I rejoined . 
It was not so with me . 
A lovelier night I never saw . 
Indeed ! Where were you last night ? I spent it in the forest . 
I had lost my way . 
Very true ! you speak like a sensible man , sir . 
We have but few sensible folks round about us . 
Now , you would hardly credit it , but my wife believes every fairy tale that ever was written . 
I cannot account for it . 
She is a most sensible woman in everything else . 
Why , my wife actually believes the story of the White Cat . 
You know it , I dare say . 
I read all these tales when a child , and know that one especially well . 
Mother has told me so a many times , and you ought to believe everything she says . 
Your mother sprang out of bed , and going as near it as she could , mewed so infernally like a great cat , that the noise ceased instantly . 
I believe the poor mouse died of the fright , for we have never heard it again . 
I watched him , and saw that , as soon as it was over , he looked scared , as if he dreaded some evil consequences to follow his presumption . 
We sat down to supper , and I ate heartily . 
My bygone distresses began already to look far off . 
In what direction are you going ? asked the old man . 
Eastward , I replied nor could I have given a more definite answer . 
Does the forest extend much further in that direction ? Oh ! for miles and miles I do not know how far . 
For although I have lived on the borders of it all my life , I have been too busy to make journeys of discovery into it . 
Nor do I see what I could discover . 
It is only trees and trees , till one is sick of them . 
Well , well , child you know all about it a great deal better than I do . 
I think you had better not go near her . 
In such talk as this the night wore on . 
When supper was finished , which lasted some time , my hostess conducted me to my chamber . 
For they frequently pass the window , and even enter the room sometimes . 
Strange creatures spend whole nights in it , at certain seasons of the year . 
I am used to it , and do not mind it . 
No more does my little girl , who sleeps in it always . 
But this room looks southward towards the open country , and they never show themselves here at least I never saw any . 
In the morning I awoke refreshed , after a profound and dreamless sleep . 
The sun was high , when I looked out of the window , shining over a wide , undulating , cultivated country . 
Various garden vegetables were growing beneath my window . 
Everything was radiant with clear sunlight . 
I went down , and found the family already at breakfast . 
But before I entered the room where they sat , the little girl came to me , and looked up in my face , as though she wanted to say something to me . 
I stooped towards her she put her arms round my neck , and her mouth to my ear , and whispered A white lady has been flitting about the house all night . 
No whispering behind doors ! cried the farmer and we entered together . 
Well , how have you slept ? No bogies , eh ? Not one , thank you I slept uncommonly well . 
I am glad to hear it . 
After breakfast , the farmer and his son went out and I was left alone with the mother and daughter . 
Yet I could persuade myself , after my last adventures , to go back , and have nothing more to do with such strange beings . 
How will you go back ? said the woman . 
Nay , that I do not know . 
Because I have heard , that , for those who enter Fairy Land , there is no way of going back . 
They must go on , and go through it . 
How , I do not in the least know . 
That is quite the impression on my own mind . 
Something compels me to go on , as if my only path was onward , but I feel less inclined this morning to continue my adventures . 
Will you come and see my little child's room ? She sleeps in the one I told you of , looking towards the forest . 
So we went together , the little girl running before to open the door for us . 
It was a large room , full of old fashioned furniture , that seemed to have once belonged to some great house . 
The window was built with a low arch , and filled with lozenge shaped panes . 
The wall was very thick , and built of solid stone . 
But as soon as I looked out of the window , a gush of wonderment and longing flowed over my soul like the tide of a great sea . 
Fairy Land lay before me , and drew me towards it with an irresistible attraction . 
I turned hurriedly to bid my hostess farewell without further delay . 
She smiled at my haste , but with an anxious look . 
You had better not go near the house of the ogre , I think . 
My son will show you into another path , which will join the first beyond it . 
Not wishing to be headstrong or too confident any more , I agreed and having taken leave of my kind entertainers , went into the wood , accompanied by the youth . 
He scarcely spoke as we went along but he led me through the trees till we struck upon a path . 
He told me to follow it , and , with a muttered good morning left me . 
CHAPTER VIII I am a part of the part , which at first was the whole . 
My spirits rose as I went deeper into the forest but I could not regain my former elasticity of mind . 
I found cheerfulness to be like life itself not to be created by any argument . 
So , better and worse , I went on , till I came to a little clearing in the forest . 
In the middle of this clearing stood a long , low hut , built with one end against a single tall cypress , which rose like a spire to the building . 
A vague misgiving crossed my mind when I saw it but I must needs go closer , and look through a little half open door , near the opposite end from the cypress . 
I could see nothing more for a few moments . 
An irresistible attraction caused me to enter . 
What she read was something like this So , then , as darkness had no beginning , neither will it ever have an end . 
So , then , is it eternal . 
The negation of aught else , is its affirmation . 
Where the light cannot come , there abideth the darkness . 
The light doth but hollow a mine out of the infinite extension of the darkness . 
And ever upon the steps of the light treadeth the darkness yea , springeth in fountains and wells amidst it , from the secret channels of its mighty sea . 
Truly , man is but a passing flame , moving unquietly amid the surrounding rest of night without which he yet could not be , and whereof he is in part compounded . 
Her forehead was high , and her black eyes repressedly quiet . 
But she took no notice of me . 
This end of the cottage , if cottage it could be called , was destitute of furniture , except the table with the lamp , and the chair on which the woman sat . 
In one corner was a door , apparently of a cupboard in the wall , but which might lead to a room beyond . 
Still the irresistible desire which had made me enter the building urged me I must open that door , and see what was beyond it . 
I approached , and laid my hand on the rude latch . 
Then the woman spoke , but without lifting her head or looking at me You had better not open that door . 
This was uttered quite quietly and she went on with her reading , partly in silence , partly aloud but both modes seemed equally intended for herself alone . 
The prohibition , however , only increased my desire to see and as she took no further notice , I gently opened the door to its full width , and looked in . 
At first , I saw nothing worthy of attention . 
It seemed a common closet , with shelves on each hand , on which stood various little necessaries for the humble uses of a cottage . 
In one corner stood one or two brooms , in another a hatchet and other common tools showing that it was in use every hour of the day for household purposes . 
But , as I continued looking , for a few seconds , towards this faintly luminous limit , my eyes came into true relation with their object . 
As I gazed , I clearly discerned two or three stars glimmering faintly in the distant blue . 
I started back and shuddered , but kept looking , for I could not help it . 
All I could tell of its appearance was , that it seemed to be a dark human figure . 
Its motion was entirely noiseless , and might be called a gliding , were it not that it appeared that of a runner , but with ghostly feet . 
I had moved back yet a little to let him pass me , and looked round after him instantly . 
I could not see him . 
Where is he ? I said , in some alarm , to the woman , who still sat reading . 
There , on the floor , behind you , she said , pointing with her arm half outstretched , but not lifting her eyes . 
I turned and looked , but saw nothing . 
I told you , said the woman , you had better not look into that closet . 
What is it ? I said , with a growing sense of horror . 
It is only your shadow that has found you , she replied . 
Everybody's shadow is ranging up and down looking for him . 
I could not speak , but turned and left the house , with the shadow at my heels . 
Indeed , only when I stood between it and the sun , was the blackness at all diminished . 
CHAPTER IX O lady ! we receive but what we give , And in our life alone does nature live Ours is her wedding garments ours her shrorwd ! . 
From this time , until I arrived at the palace of Fairy Land , I can attempt no consecutive account of my wanderings and adventures . 
Everything , henceforward , existed for me in its relation to my attendant . 
What influence he exercised upon everything into contact with which I was brought , may be understood from a few detached instances . 
I lay for half an hour in a dull repose , and then got up to pursue my way . 
The flowers on the spot where I had lain were crushed to the earth but I saw that they would soon lift their heads and rejoice again in the sun and air . 
Not so those on which my shadow had lain . 
The very outline of it could be traced in the withered lifeless grass , and the scorched and shrivelled flowers which stood there , dead , and hopeless of any resurrection . 
I shuddered , and hastened away with sad forebodings . 
In a few days , I had reason to dread an extension of its baleful influences from the fact , that it was no longer confined to one position in regard to myself . 
, I had to turn my head backwards , and look over my shoulder in which position , as long as I could retain it , I was fascinated . 
And , presently , a new manifestation increased my distress . 
For it began to coruscate , and shoot out on all sides a radiation of dim shadow . 
These rays of gloom issued from the central shadow as from a black sun , lengthening and shortening with continual change . 
But wherever a ray struck , that part of earth , or sea , or sky , became void , and desert , and sad to my heart . 
I turned away and went on . 
The shadow retreated to its former position and when I looked again , it had drawn in all its spears of darkness , and followed like a dog at my heels . 
Once , as I passed by a cottage , there came out a lovely fairy child , with two wondrous toys , one in each hand . 
Round the child's head was an aureole of emanating rays . 
As I looked at him in wonder and delight , round crept from behind me the something dark , and the child stood in my shadow . 
Straightway he was a commonplace boy , with a rough broad brimmed straw hat , through which brim the sun shone from behind . 
The toys he carried were a multiplying glass and a kaleidoscope . 
But his armour did not shine half so red as when I saw him first . 
These streaks and spots made his armour look like the floor of a forest in the sunlight . 
He , too , had met the Alder maiden as I , but he had plunged into the torrent of mighty deeds , and the stain was nearly washed away . 
He had not entered the dark house he had not had time to open the closet door . 
Will he ever look in ? I said to myself . 
MUST his shadow find him some day ? But I could not answer my own questions . 
We travelled together for two days , and I began to love him . 
The glory of his brow vanished the light of his eye grew cold and I held my peace . 
The next morning we parted . 
But the most dreadful thing of all was , that I now began to feel something like satisfaction in the presence of the shadow . 
He does away with all appearances , and shows me things in their true colour and form . 
And I am not one to be fooled with the vanities of the common crowd . 
I will not see beauty where there is none . 
I will dare to behold things as they are . 
And if I live in a waste instead of a paradise , I will live knowing where I live . 
But of this a certain exercise of his power which soon followed quite cured me , turning my feelings towards him once more into loathing and distrust . 
It was thus One bright noon , a little maiden joined me , coming through the wood in a direction at right angles to my path . 
She came along singing and dancing , happy as a child , though she seemed almost a woman . 
In her hands now in one , now in another she carried a small globe , bright and clear as the purest crystal . 
This seemed at once her plaything and her greatest treasure . 
At one moment , you would have thought her utterly careless of it , and at another , overwhelmed with anxiety for its safety . 
But I believe she was taking care of it all the time , perhaps not least when least occupied about it . 
She stopped by me with a smile , and bade me good day with the sweetest voice . 
I felt a wonderful liking to the child for she produced on me more the impression of a child , though my understanding told me differently . 
We talked a little , and then walked on together in the direction I had been pursuing . 
I asked her about the globe she carried , but getting no definite answer , I held out my hand to take it . 
I touched it with a finger . 
A slight vibratory motion arose in it , accompanied , or perhaps manifested , by a faint sweet sound . 
I touched it again , and the sound increased . 
I touched it the third time a tiny torrent of harmony rolled out of the little globe . 
She would not let me touch it any more . 
We travelled on together all that day . 
She left me when twilight came on but next day , at noon , she met me as before , and again we travelled till evening . 
The third day she came once more at noon , and we walked on together . 
This day , however , as we went on , the shadow glided round and inwrapt the maiden . 
It could not change her . 
I put out both my hands and laid hold of it . 
It began to sound as before . 
The sound rapidly increased , till it grew a low tempest of harmony , and the globe trembled , and quivered , and throbbed between my hands . 
It lies heavy on my heart to this hour . 
I came to a village , the inhabitants of which could not at first sight be distinguished from the dwellers in our land . 
They rather avoided than sought my company , though they were very pleasant when I addressed them . 
When I receded to the former distance , the former appearance was restored . 
The nature of the change was grotesque , following no fixed rule . 
Of this phenomenon I first became aware in rather a ludicrous way . 
My host's daughter was a very pleasant pretty girl , who made herself more agreeable to me than most of those about me . 
But she was well defended from any assault of the kind . 
Her countenance became , of a sudden , absurdly hideous the pretty mouth was elongated and otherwise amplified sufficiently to have allowed of six simultaneous kisses . 
I started back in bewildered dismay she burst into the merriest fit of laughter , and ran from the room . 
This done , all went pleasantly enough . 
CHAPTER X From Eden's bowers the full fed rivers flow , To guide the outcasts to the land of woe Our Earth one little toiling streamlet yields . 
To guide the wanderers to the happy fields . 
After leaving this village , where I had rested for nearly a week , I travelled through a desert region of dry sand and glittering rocks , peopled principally by goblin fairies . 
I had no inclination to observe them much , for the shadow was in my heart as well as at my heels . 
I drank of this spring , and found myself wonderfully refreshed . 
A kind of love to the cheerful little stream arose in my heart . 
It was born in a desert but it seemed to say to itself , I will flow , and sing , and lave my banks , till I make my desert a paradise . 
I thought I could not do better than follow it , and see what it made of it . 
So down with the stream I went , over rocky lands , burning with sunbeams . 
But the rivulet flowed not far , before a few blades of grass appeared on its banks , and then , here and there , a stunted bush . 
As I sat , a gush of joy sprang forth in my heart , and over flowed at my eyes . 
Roses , wild roses , everywhere ! So plentiful were they , they not only perfumed the air , they seemed to dye it a faint rose hue . 
The colour floated abroad with the scent , and clomb , and spread , until the whole west blushed and glowed with the gathered incense of roses . 
And my heart fainted with longing in my bosom . 
The twilight sank around , and infolded me with sleep . 
I slept as I had not slept for months . 
So still was the water here , that the boat needed no fastening . 
It lay as if some one had just stepped ashore , and would in a moment return . 
I fell asleep in this cradle , in which mother Nature was rocking her weary child and while I slept , the sun slept not , but went round his arched way . 
When I awoke , he slept in the waters , and I went on my silent path beneath a round silvery moon . 
And a pale moon looked up from the floor of the great blue cave that lay in the abysmal silence beneath . 
Yea , the reflecting ocean itself , reflected in the mirror , has a wondrousness about its waters that somewhat vanishes when I turn towards itself . 
All mirrors are magic mirrors . 
The commonest room is a room in a poem when I turn to the glass . 
There must be a truth involved in it , though we may but in part lay hold of the meaning . 
Even the memories of past pain are beautiful and past delights , though beheld only through clefts in the grey clouds of sorrow , are lovely as Fairy Land . 
I sat up in the boat . 
Gigantic forest trees were about me through which , like a silver snake , twisted and twined the great river . 
From this I was partly aroused by a glimmering of white , that , through the trees on the left , vaguely crossed my vision , as I gazed upwards . 
It sounded like a welcome already overshadowed with the coming farewell . 
As in all sweetest music , a tinge of sadness was in every note . 
Nor do we know how much of the pleasures even of life we owe to the intermingled sorrows . 
Joy cannot unfold the deepest truths , although deepest truth must be deepest joy . 
Cometh white robed Sorrow , stooping and wan , and flingeth wide the doors she may not enter . 
Almost we linger with Sorrow for very love . 
There was no reflection of moonlight from windows there seemed to be none so there was no cold glitter only , as I said , a ghostly shimmer . 
Numberless shadows tempered the shine , from column and balcony and tower . 
Of course , I did not discover all this from the river , and in the moonlight . 
But , though I was there for many days , I did not succeed in mastering the inner topography of the building , so extensive and complicated was it . 
Here I wished to land , but the boat had no oars on board . 
However , I found that a plank , serving for a seat , was unfastened , and with that I brought the boat to the bank and scrambled on shore . 
Deep soft turf sank beneath my feet , as I went up the ascent towards the palace . 
When I reached it , I saw that it stood on a great platform of marble , with an ascent , by broad stairs of the same , all round it . 
Arrived on the platform , I found there was an extensive outlook over the forest , which , however , was rather veiled than revealed by the moonlight . 
This court was paved in diamonds of white and red marble . 
It led me to a great open door , beneath the ascending steps of which it ran through a low arch and disappeared . 
Entering here , I found myself in a great hall , surrounded with white pillars , and paved with black and white . 
This I could see by the moonlight , which , from the other side , streamed through open windows into the hall . 
Its height I could not distinctly see . 
Since my visit to the Church of Darkness , my power of seeing the fairies of the higher orders had gradually diminished , until it had almost ceased . 
But I could frequently believe in their presence while unable to see them . 
So I began at the place where I entered , and walked round the hall , looking for some door or passage that might lead me to a more hospitable chamber . 
As I walked , I was deliciously haunted with the feeling that behind some one of the seemingly innumerable pillars , one who loved me was waiting for me . 
Then I thought she was following me from pillar to pillar as I went along but no arms came out of the faint moonlight , and no sigh assured me of her presence . 
At length I came to an open corridor , into which I turned notwithstanding that , in doing so , I left the light behind . 
However , where everything was white , a little light went a great way . 
So I walked on to the end , and a long corridor it was . 
Any doubt as to whether I was right in so doing , was soon dispelled . 
What to my dark eyes seemed a blaze of light , burst upon me . 
Now I shall sleep , I said to myself . 
My shadow dares not come here . 
I sat down to the table , and began to help myself to the good things before me with confidence . 
And now I found , as in many instances before , how true the fairy tales are for I was waited on , all the time of my meal , by invisible hands . 
I had scarcely to do more than look towards anything I wanted , when it was brought me , just as if it had come to me of itself . 
My glass was kept filled with the wine I had chosen , until I looked towards another bottle or decanter when a fresh glass was substituted , and the other wine supplied . 
As soon as they were all taken away , I heard a sound as of the shutting of a door , and knew that I was left alone . 
The sound of the falling waters of the fountain floated me into oblivion . 
I dressed myself in this , and went out . 
The whole palace shone like silver in the sun . 
The marble was partly dull and partly polished and every pinnacle , dome , and turret ended in a ball , or cone , or cusp of silver . 
It was like frost work , and too dazzling , in the sun , for earthly eyes like mine . 
Some parts of the palace itself I shall have occasion to describe more minutely . 
But its presence , however faintly revealed , sent a pang to my heart , for the pain of which , not all the beauties around me could compensate . 
The heat of the sun soon became too intense even for passive support . 
I therefore rose , and sought the shelter of one of the arcades . 
, silver seemed everywhere preferred to gold and such was the purity of the air , that it showed nowhere signs of tarnishing . 
The sides of the basin were white marble , and the bottom was paved with all kinds of refulgent stones , of every shape and hue . 
Beneath this floor of the water , lay the reflection of the blue inverted roof , fretted with its silver stars , like a second deeper sea , clasping and upholding the first . 
The fairy bath was probably fed from the fountain in the court . 
Led by an irresistible desire , I undressed , and plunged into the water . 
It clothed me as with a new sense and its object both in one . 
The waters lay so close to me , they seemed to enter and revive my heart . 
Then , with open eyes , I dived , and swam beneath the surface . 
And here was a new wonder . 
I dived again , and found myself once more in the heart of a great sea . 
I dressed , and went out , deeply refreshed . 
And now I began to discern faint , gracious forms , here and there throughout the building . 
Some walked together in earnest conversation . 
Some stood in groups , as if looking at and talking about a picture or a statue . 
None of them heeded me . 
Nor were they plainly visible to my eyes . 
Sometimes a group , or single individual , would fade entirely out of the realm of my vision as I gazed . 
Nor , I grieve to say , did I ever come much nearer to these glorious beings , or ever look upon the Queen of the Fairies herself . 
How and where I found him , I shall soon have to relate . 
The third day after my arrival , I found the library of the palace and here , all the time I remained , I spent most of the middle of the day . 
For it was , not to mention far greater attractions , a luxurious retreat from the noontide sun . 
During the mornings and afternoons , I wandered about the lovely neighbourhood , or lay , lost in delicious day dreams , beneath some mighty tree on the open lawn . 
All around the walls , in front of the books , ran galleries in rows , communicating by stairs . 
One peculiarity of these books , or at least most of those I looked into , I must make a somewhat vain attempt to describe . 
Or if the book was one of travels , I found myself the traveller . 
New lands , fresh experiences , novel customs , rose around me . 
I walked , I discovered , I fought , I suffered , I rejoiced in my success . 
Was it a history ? I was the chief actor therein . 
I suffered my own blame I was glad in my own praise . 
With a fiction it was the same . 
Mine was the whole story . 
In one , with a mystical title , which I cannot recall , I read of a world that is not like ours . 
The wondrous account , in such a feeble , fragmentary way as is possible to me , I would willingly impart . 
CHAPTER XII Chained is the Spring . 
The night wind bold Blows over the hard earth Time is not more confused and cold , Nor keeps more wintry mirth . 
Yet blow , and roll the world about Blow , Time blow , winter's Wind ! Through chinks of Time , heaven peepeth out , And Spring the frost behind . 
All that man sees has to do with man . 
Worlds cannot be without an intermundane relationship . 
The community of the centre of all creation suggests an interradiating connection and dependence of the parts . 
Else a grander idea is conceivable than that which is already imbodied . 
They are portions of the living house wherein he abides . 
Now the children , there , are not born as the children are born in worlds nearer to the sun . 
For they arrive no one knows how . 
Therefore , at certain seasons , and in certain states of the weather , according , in part , to their own fancy , the young women go out to look for children . 
They generally avoid seeking them , though they cannot help sometimes finding them , in places and with circumstances uncongenial to their peculiar likings . 
But no sooner is a child found , than its claim for protection and nurture obliterates all feeling of choice in the matter . 
After they grow up , the men and women are but little together . 
There is this peculiar difference between them , which likewise distinguishes the women from those of the earth . 
The men alone have arms the women have only wings . 
Resplendent wings are they , wherein they can shroud themselves from head to foot in a panoply of glistering glory . 
By these wings alone , it may frequently be judged in what seasons , and under what aspects , they were born . 
But underneath , they are tinged with a faint pink or rose colour . 
Those born in spring have wings of a brilliant green , green as grass and towards the edges the feathers are enamelled like the surface of the grass blades . 
These again are white within . 
Those that are born in summer have wings of a deep rose colour , lined with pale gold . 
And those born in autumn have purple wings , with a rich brown on the inside . 
One splendour , in particular , I remember wings of deep carmine , with an inner down of warm gray , around a form of brilliant whiteness . 
But though I speak of sun and fog , and sea and shore , the world there is in some respects very different from the earth whereon men live . 
For instance , the waters reflect no forms . 
This has a great effect in causing the landscapes to differ from those on the earth . 
The sun and moon alone make a glitter on the surface . 
The sea is like a sea of death , ready to ingulf and never to reveal a visible shadow of oblivion . 
Yet the women sport in its waters like gorgeous sea birds . 
The men more rarely enter them . 
But , on the contrary , the sky reflects everything beneath it , as if it were built of water like ours . 
Of course , from its concavity there is some distortion of the reflected objects yet wondrous combinations of form are often to be seen in the overhanging depth . 
When the stars come out at night , it shows a mighty cupola , fretted with golden fires , wherein there is room for all tempests to rush and rave . 
One evening in early summer , I stood with a group of men and women on a steep rock that overhung the sea . 
They were all questioning me about my world and the ways thereof . 
In making reply to one of their questions , I was compelled to say that children are not born in the Earth as with them . 
Immediately a dim notion of what I meant , seemed to dawn in the minds of most of the women . 
Some of them folded their great wings all around them , as they generally do when in the least offended , and stood erect and motionless . 
One spread out her rosy pinions , and flashed from the promontory into the gulf at its foot . 
A great light shone in the eyes of one maiden , who turned and walked slowly away , with her purple and white wings half dispread behind her . 
She was found , the next morning , dead beneath a withered tree on a bare hill side , some miles inland . 
But of this I know nothing . 
And so , while writing , it seemed to me that I had . 
And the giant trees , as bare as Death , Slowly bowed to the great Wind's breath And groaned with trying to keep from groaning Amidst the young trees bending and moaning . 
She lay down beside it and died . 
I almost believe that a child , pale and peaceful as a snowdrop , was born in the Earth within a fixed season from that stormy afternoon . 
But Love is such a Mystery I cannot find it out For when I think I'm best resols'd , I then am in most doubt . 
One story I will try to reproduce . 
But , alas ! it is like trying to reconstruct a forest out of broken branches and withered leaves . 
In the fairy book , everything was just as it should be , though whether in words or something else , I cannot tell . 
It glowed and flashed the thoughts upon the soul , with such a power that the medium disappeared from the consciousness , and it was occupied only with the things themselves . 
Of course , while I read it , I was Cosmo , and his history was mine . 
Yet , all the time , I seemed to have a kind of double consciousness , and the story a double meaning . 
Cosmo von Wehrstahl was a student at the University of Prague . 
As yet , however , he had followed these researches only from curiosity , and had turned them to no practical purpose . 
But curious instruments were heaped in the corners and in one stood a skeleton , half leaning against the wall , half supported by a string about its neck . 
One of its hands , all of fingers , rested on the heavy pommel of a great sword that stood beside it . 
Various weapons were scattered about over the floor . 
But although his fancy delighted in vagaries like these , he indulged his imagination with far different fare . 
He saw everything as through a rose coloured glass . 
But this could hardly last long . 
Some one form must sooner or later step within the charmed circle , enter the house of life , and compel the bewildered magician to kneel and worship . 
Cosmo was considered an authority in every matter pertaining to arms , ancient or modern . 
In the use of weapons , none of the students could come near him and his practical acquaintance with some had principally contributed to establish his authority in reference to all . 
His verdict on the armour was satisfactory , and his companion at once concluded the purchase . 
As they were leaving the place , Cosmo's eye was attracted by an old mirror of an elliptical shape , which leaned against the wall , covered with dust . 
Around it was some curious carving , which he could see but very indistinctly by the glimmering light which the owner of the shop carried in his hand . 
It was this carving that attracted his attention at least so it appeared to him . 
He left the place , however , with his friend , taking no further notice of it . 
They walked together to the main street , where they parted and took opposite directions . 
No sooner was Cosmo left alone , than the thought of the curious old mirror returned to him . 
A strong desire to see it more plainly arose within him , and he directed his steps once more towards the shop . 
The owner opened the door when he knocked , as if he had expected him . 
Pretending to examine several other articles , Cosmo at last approached the mirror , and requested to have it taken down . 
Take it down yourself , master I cannot reach it , said the old man . 
even for one newly from the hands of the maker . 
He asked carelessly what the owner wanted for the thing . 
The old man replied by mentioning a sum of money far beyond the reach of poor Cosmo , who proceeded to replace the mirror where it had stood before . 
You think the price too high ? said the old man . 
I do not know that it is too much for you to ask , replied Cosmo but it is far too much for me to give . 
The old man held up his light towards Cosmo's face . 
I like your look , said he . 
Cosmo could not return the compliment . 
What is your name ? he continued . 
Ah , ah ! I thought as much . 
I see your father in you . 
I knew your father very well , young sir . 
I dare say in some odd corners of my house , you might find some old things with his crest and cipher upon them still . 
Well , I like you you shall have the mirror at the fourth part of what I asked for it but upon one condition . 
That if you should ever want to get rid of it again , you will let me have the first offer . 
Certainly , replied Cosmo , with a smile adding , a moderate condition indeed . 
On your honour ? insisted the seller . 
On my honour , said the buyer and the bargain was concluded . 
I will carry it home for you , said the old man , as Cosmo took it in his hands . 
I should think my lady had enough of it by now ! Cosmo carried his prize carefully home . 
But all the way he had an uncomfortable feeling that he was watched and dogged . 
Repeatedly he looked about , but saw nothing to justify his suspicions . 
Indeed , the streets were too crowded and too ill lighted to expose very readily a careful spy , if such there should be at his heels . 
He returned home earlier than usual the next day , and fixed the mirror to the wall , over the hearth , at one end of his long room . 
He then carefully wiped away the dust from its face , and , clear as the water of a sunny spring , the mirror shone out from beneath the envious covering . 
But his interest was chiefly occupied with the curious carving of the frame . 
It is not the mere representation of the room I live in , but it looks just as if I were reading about it in a story I like . 
All its commonness has disappeared . 
And yet I know every bone and every joint in it as well as my own fist . 
I should like to live in THAT room if I could only get into it . 
At length , with a sudden effort , in which the exercise of the will was so pure , that it seemed involuntary , he turned his face to the couch . 
In bewilderment , mingled with terror , he turned again to the mirror there , on the reflected couch , lay the exquisite lady form . 
She lay with closed eyes , whence two large tears were just welling from beneath the veiling lids still as death , save for the convulsive motion of her bosom . 
Cosmo himself could not have described what he felt . 
His emotions were of a kind that destroyed consciousness , and could never be clearly recalled . 
By and by her eyes fell upon the skeleton , and he saw her shudder and close them . 
She did not open them again , but signs of repugnance continued evident on her countenance . 
Cosmo would have removed the obnoxious thing at once , but he feared to discompose her yet more by the assertion of his presence which the act would involve . 
So he stood and watched her . 
He could now gaze on her without embarrassment . 
As she lay , her whole form manifested the relaxation of perfect repose . 
He gazed till he was weary , and at last seated himself near the new found shrine , and mechanically took up a book , like one who watches by a sick bed . 
But his eyes gathered no thoughts from the page before him . 
How long he sat he knew not but at length he roused himself , rose , and , trembling in every portion of his frame , looked again into the mirror . 
The mirror reflected faithfully what his room presented , and nothing more . 
It stood there like a golden setting whence the central jewel has been stolen away like a night sky without the glory of its stars . 
She had carried with her all the strangeness of the reflected room . 
It had sunk to the level of the one without . 
But when the first pangs of his disappointment had passed , Cosmo began to comfort himself with the hope that she might return , perhaps the next evening , at the same hour . 
However , weariness prevailed and laying himself on the couch , dressed as he was , he slept till day . 
With a beating heart , beating till he could hardly breathe , he stood in dumb hope before the mirror , on the following evening . 
Again the reflected room shone as through a purple vapour in the gathering twilight . 
Everything seemed waiting like himself for a coming splendour to glorify its poor earthliness with the presence of a heavenly joy . 
Poor Cosmo nearly lost his senses with delight . 
She was there once more ! Her eyes sought the corner where the skeleton had stood , and a faint gleam of satisfaction crossed her face , apparently at seeing it empty . 
She looked suffering still , but there was less of discomfort expressed in her countenance than there had been the night before . 
She took more notice of the things about her , and seemed to gaze with some curiosity on the strange apparatus standing here and there in her room . 
At length , however , drowsiness seemed to overtake her , and again she fell asleep . 
Resolved not to lose sight of her this time , Cosmo watched the sleeping form . 
Cosmo was now in a state of extravagant delight . 
Most men have a secret treasure somewhere . 
This he could effect only by furnishing and adorning his . 
He was the best swordsman in the University and now he offered to give lessons in fencing and similar exercises , to such as chose to pay him well for the trouble . 
So that very soon he had a good deal of money at his command . 
The first thing he did was to remove his apparatus and oddities into a closet in the room . 
Then he placed his bed and a few other necessaries on each side of the hearth , and parted them from the rest of the room by two screens of Indian fabric . 
Every night , about the same time , the lady entered . 
At length , after she had lain down as usual one evening , her eyes fell upon some paintings with which Cosmo had just finished adorning the walls . 
She rose , and to his great delight , walked across the room , and proceeded to examine them carefully , testifying much pleasure in her looks as she did so . 
But again the sorrowful , tearful expression returned , and again she buried her face in the pillows of her couch . 
But , alas ! he loved a shadow . 
Who lives , he dies who dies , he is alive . 
This grew till at last the red blood rose over her neck , and cheek , and brow . 
Cosmo's longing to approach her became almost delirious . 
This night she was dressed in an evening costume , resplendent with diamonds . 
This could add nothing to her beauty , but it presented it in a new aspect enabled her loveliness to make a new manifestation of itself in a new embodiment . 
But her beauty shone down all its adornment . 
If I might have but one of her feet to kiss , thought Cosmo , I should be content . 
Alas ! he deceived himself , for passion is never content . 
Nor did he know that there are TWO ways out of her enchanted house . 
Remembered words of his bring the colour on her face now . 
I am nowhere to her . 
She lives in another world all day , and all night , after she leaves me . 
A sorrowful compassion seemed to rebuke the glitter of the restless jewels , and the slow tears rose in her eyes . 
She left her room sooner this evening than was her wont . 
Cosmo remained alone , with a feeling as if his bosom had been suddenly left empty and hollow , and the weight of the whole world was crushing in its walls . 
The next evening , for the first time since she began to come , she came not . 
And now Cosmo was in wretched plight . 
Since the thought of a rival had occurred to him , he could not rest for a moment . 
More than ever he longed to see the lady face to face . 
Meantime he waited with unspeakable anxiety for the next night , hoping she would return but she did not appear . 
And now he fell really ill . 
Rallied by his fellow students on his wretched looks , he ceased to attend the lectures . 
He cared for nothing , The sky , with the great sun in it , was to him a heartless , burning desert . 
The men and women in the streets were mere puppets , without motives in themselves , or interest to him . 
He saw them all as on the ever changing field of a camera obscura . 
She she alone and altogether was his universe , his well of life , his incarnate good . 
For six evenings she came not . 
I want only to know my doom from her own lips . 
Then he replaced his books and the next night went out in quest of the materials necessary for the conjuration . 
As he rose , the church clock struck seven and , just as she had appeared the first time , reluctant , slow , and stately , glided in the lady . 
Stepping carefully from the circle , he put a small brazier into its centre . 
He then set fire to its contents of charcoal , and while it burned up , opened his window and seated himself , waiting , beside it . 
It was a sultry evening . 
The air was full of thunder . 
A sense of luxurious depression filled the brain . 
The sky seemed to have grown heavy , and to compress the air beneath it . 
A kind of purplish tinge pervaded the atmosphere , and through the open window came the scents of the distant fields , which all the vapours of the city could not quench . 
Cosmo sprinkled upon it the incense and other substances which he had compounded , and , stepping within the circle , turned his face from the brazier and towards the mirror . 
Then , fixing his eyes upon the face of the lady , he began with a trembling voice to repeat a powerful incantation . 
Then he passed to a conjuration stronger yet . 
The lady rose and walked uneasily to and fro in her room . 
Another spell and she seemed seeking with her eyes for some object on which they wished to rest . 
Cosmo had never seen her so near before . 
Now at least , eyes met eyes but he could not quite understand the expression of hers . 
They were full of tender entreaty , but there was something more that he could not interpret . 
Though his heart seemed to labour in his throat , he would allow no delight or agitation to turn him from his task . 
Looking still in her face , he passed on to the mightiest charm he knew . 
Suddenly the lady turned and walked out of the door of her reflected chamber . 
A moment after she entered his room with veritable presence and , forgetting all his precautions , he sprang from the charmed circle , and knelt before her . 
There she stood , the living lady of his passionate visions , alone beside him , in a thundery twilight , and the glow of a magic fire . 
Ah , the mirror ! and she looked up at it , and shuddered . 
Alas ! I am but a slave , while that mirror exists . 
Canst thou love me then ? said Cosmo , in a voice calm as death , but almost inarticulate with emotion . 
I do not know , she replied sadly that I cannot tell , so long as I am bewildered with enchantments . 
I love thee as nay , I know not what for since I have loved thee , there is nothing else . 
He seized her hand she withdrew it . 
No , better not I am in thy power , and therefore I may not . 
She burst into tears , and kneeling before him in her turn , said Cosmo , if thou lovest me , set me free , even from thyself break the mirror . 
And shall I see thyself instead ? That I cannot tell , I will not deceive thee we may never meet again . 
A fierce struggle arose in Cosmo's bosom . 
Now she was in his power . 
She did not dislike him at least and he could see her when he would . 
To break the mirror would be to destroy his very life to banish out of his universe the only glory it possessed . 
The whole world would be but a prison , if he annihilated the one window that looked into the paradise of love . 
Not yet pure in love , he hesitated . 
With a wail of sorrow the lady rose to her feet . 
Ah ! he loves me not he loves me not even as I love him and alas ! I care more for his love than even for the freedom I ask . 
I will not wait to be willing , cried Cosmo and sprang to the corner where the great sword stood . 
Meantime it had grown very dark only the embers cast a red glow through the room . 
At that moment , a terrible clap of thunder seemed to burst in the very room beside them and ere Cosmo could repeat the blow , he fell senseless on the hearth . 
When he came to himself , he found that the lady and the mirror had both disappeared . 
He was seized with a brain fever , which kept him to his couch for weeks . 
When he recovered his reason , he began to think what could have become of the mirror . 
For the lady , he hoped she had found her way back as she came but as the mirror involved her fate with its own , he was more immediately anxious about that . 
He could not think she had carried it away . 
It was much too heavy , even if it had not been too firmly fixed in the wall , for her to remove it . 
Then again , he remembered the thunder which made him believe that it was not the lightning , but some other blow that had struck him down . 
Anxiety to be well retarded his recovery but at length he was able to creep abroad . 
He first made his way to the old broker's , pretending to be in search of something else . 
Full of distress , which he concealed as well as he could , he made many searches , but with no avail . 
Of course he could ask no questions but he kept his ears awake for any remotest hint that might set him in a direction of search . 
Whether he should see the lady again , was now a thought altogether secondary , and postponed to the achievement of her freedom . 
He wandered here and there , like an anxious ghost , pale and haggard gnawed ever at the heart , by the thought of what she might be suffering all from his fault . 
Here he wandered about , listening to every stray word that he could catch , in the hope of a revelation . 
It is very sad for so fine a creature to have such a terrible malady . 
She was better for some weeks lately , but within the last few days the same attacks have returned , apparently accompanied with more suffering than ever . 
It is altogether an inexplicable story . 
This peculiar affection followed soon after . 
But the strangest part of the story is its association with the loss of an antique mirror , which stood in her dressing room , and of which she constantly made use . 
Here the speaker's voice sank to a whisper and Cosmo , although his very soul sat listening in his ears , could hear no more . 
He trembled too much to dare to address the ladies , even if it had been advisable to expose himself to their curiosity . 
He hoped , too , that as he had unexpectedly learned so much , the other and far more important part might be revealed to him ere long . 
Have you seen Steinwald lately ? No , I have not seen him for some time . 
He is almost a match for me at the rapier , and I suppose he thinks he needs no more lessons . 
I wonder what has become of him . 
I want to see him very much . 
That is fully three weeks ago . 
This hint was enough for Cosmo . 
Von Steinwald was a man of influence in the court , well known for his reckless habits and fierce passions . 
The very possibility that the mirror should be in his possession was hell itself to Cosmo . 
But violent or hasty measures of any sort were most unlikely to succeed . 
All that he wanted was an opportunity of breaking the fatal glass and to obtain this he must bide his time . 
He revolved many plans in his mind , but without being able to fix upon any . 
At length , one evening , as he was passing the house of Von Steinwald , he saw the windows more than usually brilliant . 
In a lofty , silent chamber , in another part of the city , lay a form more like marble than a living woman . 
The loveliness of death seemed frozen upon her face , for her lips were rigid , and her eyelids closed . 
Her long white hands were crossed over her breast , and no breathing disturbed their repose . 
Beside the dead , men speak in whispers , as if the deepest rest of all could be broken by the sound of a living voice . 
She has lain so for an hour . 
This cannot last long , I fear . 
How much thinner she has grown within the last few weeks ! If she would only speak , and explain what she suffers , it would be better for her . 
I think she has visions in her trances , but nothing can induce her to refer to them when she is awake . 
But even then she would give no account of what had happened . 
A scarce audible murmur from the yet motionless lips of the lady here startled her attendants . 
After several ineffectual attempts at articulation , the word COSMO ! burst from her . 
Then she lay still as before but only for a moment . 
Then turning to her motionless attendants Quick , Lisa , my cloak and hood ! Then lower I must go to him . 
Make haste , Lisa ! You may come with me , if you will . 
In another moment they were in the street , hurrying along towards one of the bridges over the Moldau . 
The moon was near the zenith , and the streets were almost empty . 
The Princess soon outstripped her attendant , and was half way over the bridge , before the other reached it . 
Are you free , lady ? The mirror is broken are you free ? The words were spoken close beside her , as she hurried on . 
She turned and there , leaning on the parapet in a recess of the bridge , stood Cosmo , in a splendid dress , but with a white and quivering face . 
Cosmo ! I am free and thy servant for ever . 
I was coming to you now . 
And I to you , for Death made me bold but I could get no further . 
His hand was pressed against his side . 
She looked more closely the blood was welling from between the fingers . 
She flung her arms around him with a faint bitter wail . 
When Lisa came up , she found her mistress kneeling above a wan dead face , which smiled on in the spectral moonbeams . 
From many a sultry noon till twilight , did I sit in that grand hall , buried and risen again in these old books . 
And I trust I have carried away in my soul some of the exhalations of their undying leaves . 
It seemed to me strange , that all this time I had heard no music in the fairy palace . 
I was convinced there must be music in it , but that my sense was as yet too gross to receive the influence of those mysterious motions that beget sound . 
But they did not last long enough to convince me that I had heard them with the bodily sense . 
Now , on an evening , before I had been a week in the palace , I was wandering through one lighted arcade and corridor after another . 
At length I arrived , through a door that closed behind me , in another vast hall of the palace . 
Between several pairs of the pillars upon every side , the place of the wall behind was occupied by a crimson curtain of thick silk , hanging in heavy and rich folds . 
Behind each of these curtains burned a powerful light , and these were the sources of the glow that filled the hall . 
A peculiar delicious odour pervaded the place . 
After this , I repaired every morning to the same hall where I sometimes sat in the chair and dreamed deliciously , and sometimes walked up and down over the black floor . 
Entrancing verses arose within me as of their own accord , chanting themselves to their own melodies , and requiring no addition of music to satisfy the inward sense . 
Nor was I altogether disappointed . 
I walked to one of the magnificent draperies , lifted a corner , and peeped in . 
The roof was supported by the same arrangement of pillars radiating in arches , as that of the first hall only , here , the pillars and arches were of dark red . 
But what absorbed my delighted gaze , was an innumerable assembly of white marble statues , of every form , and in multitudinous posture , filling the hall throughout . 
These stood , in the ruddy glow of the great lamp , upon pedestals of jet black . 
I did not go in that evening , for I was weary and faint , but I hoarded up the expectation of entering , as of a great coming joy . 
Next night I walked , as on the preceding , through the hall . 
My mind was filled with pictures and songs , and therewith so much absorbed , that I did not for some time think of looking within the curtain I had last night lifted . 
When the thought of doing so occurred to me first , I happened to be within a few yards of it . 
I became conscious , at the same moment , that the sound of dancing had been for some time in my ears . 
I approached the curtain quickly , and , lifting it , entered the black hall . 
Everything was still as death . 
It was as if the peculiar atmosphere of each had yet a kind of invisible tremulousness as if its agitated wavelets had not yet subsided into a perfect calm . 
Neither did they produce on my mind that impression of motion just expired , which I had experienced from the others . 
I found that behind every one of the crimson curtains was a similar hall , similarly lighted , and similarly occupied . 
I drew aside its edge as suddenly as I could , and , looking in , saw that the utmost stillness pervaded the vast place . 
I walked in , and passed through it to the other end . 
There I found that it communicated with a circular corridor , divided from it only by two rows of red columns . 
After I had simply walked through them , I found myself sufficiently tired to long for rest , and went to my own room . 
In the night I dreamed that , walking close by one of the curtains , I was suddenly seized with the desire to enter , and darted in . 
This time I was too quick for them . 
While I gazed in speechless astonishment and admiration , a dark shadow , descending from above like the curtain of a stage , gradually hid her entirely from my view . 
I felt with a shudder that this shadow was perchance my missing demon , whom I had not seen for days . 
I awoke with a stifled cry . 
, in the hope of proving the dream to be a true one , by discovering my marble beauty upon her black pedestal . 
It was exactly in the position occupied , in my dream , by the pedestal on which the white lady stood . 
Hope beat violently in my heart . 
But the difficulty was , to surprise the dancers . 
I had found that a premeditated attempt at surprise , though executed with the utmost care and rapidity , was of no avail . 
And , in my dream , it was effected by a sudden thought suddenly executed . 
At length the right moment and the impulse coincided . 
I darted into the ninth hall . 
It was full of the most exquisite moving forms . 
The whole space wavered and swam with the involutions of an intricate dance . 
Somewhat impeded by the floating crowd , I made what haste I could towards the bottom of the hall whence , entering the corridor , I turned towards the tenth . 
But I had a conviction that she was near me . 
And as I looked at the pedestal , I thought I saw upon it , vaguely revealed as if through overlapping folds of drapery , the indistinct outlines of white feet . 
Yet there was no sign of drapery or concealing shadow whatever . 
But I remembered the descending shadow in my dream . 
'When will you finish Campaspe ? Apelles . 
'Never finish for always in absolute beauty there is somewhat above art . 
I wandered long , up and down the silent space no songs came . 
My soul was not still enough for songs . 
Here all effort was unavailing . 
If they came not , they could not be found . 
Next night , it was just the same . 
I walked through the red glimmer of the silent hall but lonely as there I walked , as lonely trod my soul up and down the halls of the brain . 
At last I entered one of the statue halls . 
The dance had just commenced , and I was delighted to find that I was free of their assembly . 
I walked on till I came to the sacred corner . 
There I found the pedestal just as I had left it , with the faint glimmer as of white feet still resting on the dead black . 
The power of song came to me . 
Silence rolled like a spiritual thunder through the grand space . 
My song had ceased , scared at its own influences . 
But I saw in the hand of one of the statues close by me , a harp whose chords yet quivered . 
I remembered that as she bounded past me , her harp had brushed against my arm so the spell of the marble had not infolded it . 
I sprang to her , and with a gesture of entreaty , laid my hand on the harp . 
The marble hand , probably from its contact with the uncharmed harp , had strength enough to relax its hold , and yield the harp to me . 
No other motion indicated life . 
Instinctively I struck the chords and sang . 
Up to speech ! As up to roses Pants the life from leaf to flower , So each blending change discloses , Nearer still , expression's power . 
Lo ! fair sweeps , white surges , twining Up and outward fearlessly ! Temple columns , close combining , Lift a holy mystery . 
Heart of mine ! what strange surprises Mount aloft on such a stair ! Some great vision upward rises , Curving , bending , floating fair . 
Bands and sweeps , and hill and hollow Lead my fascinated eye Some apocalypse will follow , Some new world of deity . 
But the spirit , dawning nearly Finds no speech for earnest pain Finds a soundless sighing merely Builds its stairs , and mounts again . 
Build thy slopes of radiance beamy Spirit , fair with womanhood ! Tower thy precipice , white gleamy , Climb unto the hour of good . 
Dumb space will be rent asunder , Now the shining column stands Ready to be crowned with wonder By the builder's joyous hands . 
All the lines abroad are spreading , Like a fountain's falling race . 
Span across in treble curving , Bow of promise , upper lip ! Set them free , with gracious swerving Let the wing words float and dip . 
DUMB ART THOU ? O Love immortal , More than words thy speech must be Childless yet the tender portal Of the home of melody . 
Lo , a blinding burst of splendour ! 'Tis the free soul's issuing grace . 
Two calm lakes of molten glory Circling round unfathomed deeps ! Lightning flashes , transitory , Cross the gulfs where darkness sleeps . 
Through the gulfs , with inward gazes , I may look till I am lost Wandering deep in spirit mazes , In a sea without a coast . 
Windows open to the glorious ! Time and space , oh , far beyond ! Woman , ah ! thou art victorious , And I perish , overfond . 
Springs aloft the yet Unspoken In the forehead's endless grace , Full of silences unbroken Infinite , unfeatured face . 
Domes above , the mount of wonder Height and hollow wrapt in night Hiding in its caverns under Woman nations in their might . 
Passing forms , the highest Human Faints away to the Divine Features none , of man or woman , Can unveil the holiest shine . 
Sideways , grooved porches only Visible to passing eye , Stand the silent , doorless , lonely Entrance gates of melody . 
But all sounds fly in as boldly , Groan and song , and kiss and cry At their galleries , lifted coldly , Darkly , 'twixt the earth and sky . 
CHAPTER XVI Ev'n the Styx , which ninefold her infoldeth Hems not Ceres' daughter in its flow But she grasps the apple ever holdeth Her , sad Orcus , down below . 
SCHILLER , Das Ideal und das Leben . 
The wonder is , that I was not altogether overcome , but was able to complete my song as the unseen veil continued to rise . 
This ability came solely from the state of mental elevation in which I found myself . 
Only because uplifted in song , was I able to endure the blaze of the dawn . 
But I cannot tell whether she looked more of statue or more of woman she seemed removed into that region of phantasy where all is intensely vivid , but nothing clearly defined . 
At last , as I sang of her descending hair , the glow of soul faded away , like a dying sunset . 
A lamp within had been extinguished , and the house of life shone blank in a winter morn . 
She was a statue once more but visible , and that was much gained . 
Notwithstanding the precipitation of my pursuit , I could not help reading , in silver letters beneath the lamp NO ONE ENTERS HERE WITHOUT THE LEAVE OF THE QUEEN . 
But what was the Queen to me , when I followed my white lady ? I dashed the door to the wall and sprang through . 
Lo ! I stood on a waste windy hill . 
Great stones like tombstones stood all about me . 
No door , no palace was to be seen . 
Had she fallen in ? I could not tell . 
I must wait for the daylight . 
I sat down and wept , for there was no help . 
CHAPTER XVII First , I thought , almost despairing , This must crush my spirit now Yet I bore it , and am bearing Only do not ask me how . 
When the daylight came , it brought the possibility of action , but with it little of consolation . 
With the first visible increase of light , I gazed into the chasm , but could not , for more than an hour , see sufficiently well to discover its nature . 
At last I saw it was almost a perpendicular opening , like a roughly excavated well , only very large . 
I saw at once that this was my path and without a moment's hesitation , glad to quit the sunlight , which stared at me most heartlessly , I commenced my tortuous descent . 
In some parts I had to cling to the rocks like a bat . 
After descending a great way , I found the stair ended at a narrow opening which entered the rock horizontally . 
Into this I crept , and , having entered , had just room to turn round . 
I put my head out into the shaft by which I had come down , and surveyed the course of my descent . 
Looking up , I saw the stars although the sun must by this time have been high in the heavens . 
I turned again , and crept inwards some distance , when the passage widened , and I was at length able to stand and walk upright . 
Whenever a choice was necessary , I always chose the path which seemed to lead downwards . 
At length I began to find that these regions were inhabited . 
What do you want with me ? I said . 
A second appeared , and struck in You are so big , you keep the sun from us . 
We can't see for you , and we're so cold . 
He sang the same air too and , all the time , maintained a face of mock entreaty and worship accompanying the song with the travestied gestures of one playing on the lute . 
Inexpressible laughter followed , which broke up in a shower of tiny stones from innumerable hands . 
They could not materially injure me , although they cut me on the head and face . 
I attempted to run away , but they all rushed upon me , and , laying hold of every part that afforded a grasp , held me tight . 
They instantly let go their hold of me , and fell back a step or two , with a whole broadside of grunts and humphs , as of unexpected and disappointed approbation . 
In an instant , the whole was one writhing and tumbling heap of contortion , reminding me of the live pyramids of intertwined snakes of which travellers make report . 
I left them still busy at this fierce and apparently aimless amusement . 
And as I went , I sang If a nobler waits for thee , I will weep aside It is well that thou should'st be , Of the nobler , bride . 
For if love builds up the home , Where the heart is free , Homeless yet the heart must roam , That has not found thee . 
But this lasted no longer than the song as will be seen . 
Do not vex thy violet Perfume to afford Else no odour thou wilt get From its little hoard . 
In thy lady's gracious eyes Look not thou too long Else from them the glory flies , And thou dost her wrong . 
Come not thou too near the maid , Clasp her not too wild Else the splendour is allayed , And thy heart beguiled . 
A crash of laughter , more discordant and deriding than any I had yet heard , invaded my ears . 
She rose , as I drew near , and came forward to meet me . 
She was very plain and commonplace in appearance , without being hideously ugly . 
I had turned to go away as I gave my reply , but now I stopped and looked at her . 
Stay with me , she said , lifting up her exquisite face , and looking full in mine . 
Again the infernal laugh grated upon my ears again the rocks closed in around me , and the ugly woman looked at me with wicked , mocking hazel eyes . 
You shall have your reward , said she . 
You shall see your white lady again . 
That lies not with you , I replied , and turned and left her . 
She followed me with shriek upon shriek of laughter , as I went on my way . 
CHAPTER XVIII In the wind's uproar , the sea's raging grim , And the sighs that are born in him . 
From dreams of bliss shall men awake One day , but not to weep The dreams remain they only break The mirror of the sleep . 
How I got through this dreary part of my travels , I do not know . 
I do not think I was upheld by the hope that any moment the light might break in upon me for I scarcely thought about that . 
I went on with a dull endurance , varied by moments of uncontrollable sadness for more and more the conviction grew upon me that I should never see the white lady again . 
The time passed by unheeded for my thoughts were busy . 
Perhaps this was also in part the cause of my needing no food , and never thinking how I should find any , during this subterraneous part of my travels . 
A gray mist continually gathered behind me . 
It narrowed yet , until I was forced to move carefully , in order to avoid striking against the projecting pieces of rock . 
The roof sank lower and lower , until I was compelled , first to stoop , and then to creep on my hands and knees . 
With great difficulty I accomplished these last few yards , and came forth to the day . 
I stood on the shore of a wintry sea , with a wintry sun just a few feet above its horizon edge . 
It was bare , and waste , and gray . 
Hundreds of hopeless waves rushed constantly shorewards , falling exhausted upon a beach of great loose stones , that seemed to stretch miles and miles in both directions . 
A cold , death like wind swept across the shore , seeming to issue from a pale mouth of cloud upon the horizon . 
Sign of life was nowhere visible . 
I wandered over the stones , up and down the beach , a human imbodiment of the nature around me . 
I could bear it no longer . 
I will not be tortured to death , I cried I will meet it half way . 
The life within me is yet enough to bear me up to the face of Death , and then I die unconquered . 
I could hardly keep my feet against the wind and sea . 
I stood one moment and gazed into the heaving abyss beneath me then plunged headlong into the mounting wave below . 
A blessing , like the kiss of a mother , seemed to alight on my soul a calm , deeper than that which accompanies a hope deferred , bathed my spirit . 
I sank far into the waters , and sought not to return . 
The waters of themselves lifted me , as with loving arms , to the surface . 
I breathed again , but did not unclose my eyes . 
I would not look on the wintry sea , and the pitiless gray sky . 
Thus I floated , till something gently touched me . 
It was a little boat floating beside me . 
It was a little gay coloured boat , seemingly covered with glistering scales like those of a fish , all of brilliant rainbow hues . 
I scrambled into it , and lay down in the bottom , with a sense of exquisite repose . 
The aureole of the sun yet shot the extreme faint tips of its longest rays above the horizon waves , and withdrew them not . 
It was a perpetual twilight . 
But when I looked down , a new wonder met my view . 
For , vaguely revealed beneath the wave , I floated above my whole Past . 
But these motions might come only from the heaving of the waters between those forms and me . 
Soon I fell asleep , overcome with fatigue and delight . 
I awoke with the feeling that I had been kissed and loved to my heart's content and found that my boat was floating motionless by the grassy shore of a little island . 
CHAPTER XIX In still rest , in changeless simplicity , I bear , uninterrupted , the consciousness of the whole of Humanity within me . 
such a sweetness , such a grace , In all thy speech appear , That what to th'eye a beauteous face , That thy tongue is to the ear . 
The water was deep to the very edge and I sprang from the little boat upon a soft grassy turf . 
The island seemed rich with a profusion of all grasses and low flowers . 
The whole island lay open to the sky and sea . 
It rose nowhere more than a few feet above the level of the waters , which flowed deep all around its border . 
Here there seemed to be neither tide nor storm . 
My heart , softened by the dreams through which it had passed , overflowed in a sad , tender love towards them . 
They looked to me like children impregnably fortified in a helpless confidence . 
The sun stood half way down the western sky , shining very soft and golden and there grew a second world of shadows amidst the world of grasses and wild flowers . 
The cottage was square , with low walls , and a high pyramidal roof thatched with long reeds , of which the withered blossoms hung over all the eaves . 
It is noticeable that most of the buildings I saw in Fairy Land were cottages . 
There was no path to a door , nor , indeed , was there any track worn by footsteps in the island . 
The cottage rose right out of the smooth turf . 
It had no windows that I could see but there was a door in the centre of the side facing me , up to which I went . 
I knocked , and the sweetest voice I had ever heard said , Come in . 
A bright fire was burning on a hearth in the centre of the earthern floor , and the smoke found its way out at an opening in the centre of the pyramidal roof . 
Over the fire hung a little pot , and over the pot bent a woman face , the most wonderful , I thought , that I had ever beheld . 
For it was older than any countenance I had ever looked upon . 
There was not a spot in which a wrinkle could lie , where a wrinkle lay not . 
And the skin was ancient and brown , like old parchment . 
The woman's form was tall and spare and when she stood up to welcome me , I saw that she was straight as an arrow . 
Wrinkles had beset them all about the eyelids themselves were old , and heavy , and worn but the eyes were very incarnations of soft light . 
She held out her hand to me , and the voice of sweetness again greeted me , with the single word , Welcome . 
She set an old wooden chair for me , near the fire , and went on with her cooking . 
A wondrous sense of refuge and repose came upon me . 
I felt like a boy who has got home from school , miles across the hills , through a heavy storm of wind and snow . 
Almost , as I gazed on her , I sprang from my seat to kiss those old lips . 
to my lips , entreating me most endearingly to swallow it . 
To please her , I made an effort , and succeeded . 
I obeyed her , and found myself wonderfully refreshed . 
Then she drew near the fire an old fashioned couch that was in the cottage , and making me lie down upon it , sat at my feet , and began to sing . 
The songs were almost all sad , but with a sound of comfort . 
One I can faintly recall . 
It was something like this Sir Aglovaile through the churchyard rode SING , ALL ALONE I LIE Little recked he where'er he yode , ALL ALONE , UP IN THE SKY . 
Swerved his courser , and plunged with fear ALL ALONE I LIE His cry might have wakened the dead men near , ALL ALONE , UP IN THE SKY . 
The very dead that lay at his feet , Lapt in the mouldy winding sheet . 
A ghost grew out of the shadowy air , And sat in the midst of her moony hair . 
In her gleamy hair she sat and wept In the dreamful moon they lay and slept The shadows above , and the bodies below , Lay and slept in the moonbeams slow . 
Oh , lovely ghosts my heart is woes To see thee weeping and wailing so . 
When my baby died , my brain grew wild . 
I awoke , and found I was with my child . 
The lady smiled a flickering smile , And she pressed her temples hard the while . 
Thou seest that Death for a woman can Do more than knighthood for a man . 
But show me the child thou callest mine , Is she out to night in the ghost's sunshine ? In St . 
Peter's Church she is playing on , At hide and seek , with Apostle John . 
Then I can go where I list , and weep , For good St . 
John my child will keep . 
Thy beauty filleth the very air , Never saw I a woman so fair . 
Come , if thou darest , and sit by my side But do not touch me , or woe will betide . 
Alas , I am weak I might well know This gladness betokens some further woe . 
For thou lovest me yet though but as a man . 
The knight dismounted in earnest speed Away through the tombstones thundered the steed , And fell by the outer wall , and died . 
All the night long , till the cock crew loud , He kneeled by the lady , lapt in her shroud . 
And what they said , I may not say Dead night was sweeter than living day . 
Come every night , my ghost , to me And one night I will come to thee . 
'Tis good to have a ghostly wife She will not tremble at clang of strife She will only hearken , amid the din , Behind the door , if he cometh in . 
And this is how Sir Aglovaile Often walked in the moonlight pale . 
'Twas then that the eastern crescent shone Through the chancel window , and good St . 
And their love was a rapture , lone and high , And dumb as the moon in the topmost sky . 
One night Sir Aglovaile , weary , slept And dreamed a dream wherein he wept . 
A warrior he was , not often wept he , But this night he wept full bitterly . 
He woke beside him the ghost girl shone Out of the dark 'twas the eve of St . 
She wailed aloud , and faded , and sank . 
With upturn'd white face , cold and blank , In his arms lay the corpse of the maiden pale , And she came no more to Sir Aglovaile . 
Only a voice , when winds were wild , Sobbed and wailed like a chidden child . 
This was one of the simplest of her songs , which , perhaps , is the cause of my being able to remember it better than most of the others . 
While she sung , I was in Elysium , with the sense of a rich soul upholding , embracing , and overhanging mine , full of all plenty and bounty . 
At last I fell asleep while she sang . 
When I awoke , I knew not whether it was night or day . 
She was weeping , but very gently and plentifully . 
The tears seemed to come freely from her heart . 
Thus she stood for a few minutes then , slowly turning at right angles to her former position , she faced another of the four sides of the cottage . 
I now observed , for the first time , that here was a door likewise and that , indeed , there was one in the centre of every side of the cottage . 
When she looked towards the second door , her tears ceased to flow , but sighs took their place . 
She often closed her eyes as she stood and every time she closed her eyes , a gentle sigh seemed to be born in her heart , and to escape at her lips . 
But when her eyes were open , her sighs were deep and very sad , and shook her whole frame . 
Then she turned to the fourth door , and I saw her shudder , and then stand still as a statue till at last she turned towards me and approached the fire . 
I saw that her face was white as death . 
While she spun , she murmured a low strange song , to which the hum of the wheel made a kind of infinite symphony . 
At length she paused in her spinning and singing , and glanced towards me , like a mother who looks whether or not her child gives signs of waking . 
She smiled when she saw that my eyes were open . 
I asked her whether it was day yet . 
She answered , It is always day here , so long as I keep my fire burning . 
I felt wonderfully refreshed and a great desire to see more of the island awoke within me . 
I rose , and saying that I wished to look about me , went towards the door by which I had entered . 
Stay a moment , said my hostess , with some trepidation in her voice . 
You will not see what you expect when you go out of that door . 
Only remember this whenever you wish to come back to me , enter wherever you see this mark . 
She held up her left hand between me and the fire . 
Upon the palm , which appeared almost transparent , I saw , in dark red , a mark like this which I took care to fix in my mind . 
As I went she resumed her spinning . 
I opened the door , and stepped out . 
It seemed to me now that I had been asleep there . 
At a little distance in the field , I saw two of my brothers at play . 
Then we went home together with a strange happiness . 
As we went , we heard the continually renewed larum of a landrail in the long grass . 
My father's voice recalled us from trampling down the rich long grass , soon to be cut down and laid aside for the winter . 
I had quite forgotten all about Fairy Land , and the wonderful old woman , and the curious red mark . 
My favourite brother and I shared the same bed . 
Some childish dispute arose between us and our last words , ere we fell asleep , were not of kindness , notwithstanding the pleasures of the day . 
When I woke in the morning , I missed him . 
He had risen early , and had gone to bathe in the river . 
In another hour , he was brought home drowned . 
I rushed out of the house , I knew not why , sobbing and crying bitterly . 
I ran through the fields in aimless distress , till , passing the old barn , I caught sight of a red mark on the door . 
The merest trifles sometimes rivet the attention in the deepest misery the intellect has so little to do with grief . 
I went up to look at this mark , which I did not remember ever to have seen before . 
As I looked at it , I thought I would go in and lie down amongst the straw , for I was very weary with running about and weeping . 
I opened the door and there in the cottage sat the old woman as I had left her , at her spinning wheel . 
I did not expect you quite so soon , she said , as I shut the door behind me . 
I went up to the couch , and threw myself on it with that fatigue wherewith one awakes from a feverish dream of hopeless grief . 
The old woman sang The great sun , benighted , May faint from the sky But love , once uplighted , Will never more die . 
Form , with its brightness , From eyes will depart It walketh , in whiteness , The halls of the heart . 
Ere she had ceased singing , my courage had returned . 
I started from the couch , and , without taking leave of the old woman , opened the door of Sighs , and sprang into what should appear . 
I stood in a lordly hall , where , by a blazing fire on the hearth , sat a lady , waiting , I knew , for some one long desired . 
A mirror was near me , but I saw that my form had no place within its depths , so I feared not that I should be seen . 
The lady wonderfully resembled my marble lady , but was altogether of the daughters of men , and I could not tell whether or not it was she . 
It was not for me she waited . 
The tramp of a great horse rang through the court without . 
It ceased , and the clang of armour told that his rider alighted , and the sound of his ringing heels approached the hall . 
The door opened but the lady waited , for she would meet her lord alone . 
He strode in she flew like a home bound dove into his arms , and nestled on the hard steel . 
It was the knight of the soiled armour . 
But now the armour shone like polished glass and strange to tell , though the mirror reflected not my form , I saw a dim shadow of myself in the shining steel . 
O my beloved , thou art come , and I am blessed . 
Then she unclasped his greaves , and unbuckled his spurs and once more she sprang into his arms , and laid her head where she could now feel the beating of his heart . 
Then she disengaged herself from his embrace , and , moving back a step or two , gazed at him . 
He stood there a mighty form , crowned with a noble head , where all sadness had disappeared , or had been absorbed in solemn purpose . 
There was something noble in him , but it was a nobleness of thought , and not of deed . 
He may yet perish of vile fear . 
As soon as I saw him , rejoined the knight , I knew that earthly arms availed not against such as he and that my soul must meet him in its naked strength . 
So I unclasped my helm , and flung it on the ground and , holding my good axe yet in my hand , gazed at him with steady eyes . 
On he came , a horror indeed , but I did not flinch . 
Endurance must conquer , where force could not reach . 
He came nearer and nearer , till the ghastly face was close to mine . 
A shudder as of death ran through me but I think I did not move , for he seemed to quail , and retreated . 
As soon as he gave back , I struck one more sturdy blow on the stem of his tree , that the forest rang and then looked at him again . 
He writhed and grinned with rage and apparent pain , and again approached me , but retreated sooner than before . 
Then I looked up from my labour , and lo ! the spectre had vanished , and I saw him no more nor ever in my wanderings have I heard of him again . 
Well struck ! well withstood ! my hero , said the lady . 
I had never been for thee , if he had not sought me first . 
But I love him not as I love thee . 
He was but the moon of my night thou art the sun of my clay , O beloved . 
Thou art right , returned the noble man . 
It were hard , indeed , not to have some love in return for such a gift as he hath given thee . 
I , too , owe him more than words can speak . 
They sat silent , and I almost thought they were listening . 
The colour of the lady's eyes grew deeper and deeper the slow tears grew , and filled them , and overflowed . 
They rose , and passed , hand in hand , close to where I stood and each looked towards me in passing . 
I stood with an ocean of sighs frozen in my bosom . 
I could remain no longer . 
I looked all about for the mark , but could see it nowhere for I avoided looking just where it was . 
There the dull red cipher glowed , on the very door of their secret chamber . 
Be thy heart a well of love , my child , Flowing , and free , and sure For a cistern of love , though undefiled , Keeps not the spirit pure . 
I rose from the earth , loving the white lady as I had never loved her before . 
Then I walked up to the door of Dismay , and opened it , and went out . 
And lo ! I came forth upon a crowded street , where men and women went to and fro in multitudes . 
I knew it well and , turning to one hand , walked sadly along the pavement . 
in the years when I thought my boyhood was left behind , and shortly before I entered the realm of Fairy Land . 
Wrong and Sorrow had gone together , hand in hand as it is well they do . 
Unchangeably dear was that face . 
It lay in my heart as a child lies in its own white bed but I could not meet her . 
Anything but that , I said , and , turning aside , sprang up the steps to a door , on which I fancied I saw the mystic sign . 
I entered not the mysterious cottage , but her home . 
I rushed wildly on , and stood by the door of her room . 
She is out , I said , I will see the old room once more . 
I opened the door gently , and stood in a great solemn church . 
A deep toned bell , whose sounds throbbed and echoed and swam through the empty building , struck the hour of midnight . 
Was it she ? and was this her chamber ? I crossed the church , and followed . 
The figure stopped , seemed to ascend as it were a high bed , and lay down . 
I reached the place where it lay , glimmering white . 
The bed was a tomb . 
The light was too ghostly to see clearly , but I passed my hand over the face and the hands and the feet , which were all bare . 
They were cold they were marble , but I knew them . 
I turned to retrace my steps , but found , ere long , that I had wandered into what seemed a little chapel . 
I groped about , seeking the door . 
Everything I touched belonged to the dead . 
My hands fell on the cold effigy of a knight who lay with his legs crossed and his sword broken beside him . 
He lay in his noble rest , and I lived on in ignoble strife . 
I felt for the left hand and a certain finger I found there the ring I knew he was one of my own ancestors . 
I was in the chapel over the burial vault of my race . 
A warm kiss alighted on my lips through the dark . 
And I said , The dead kiss well I will not be afraid . 
And a great hand was reached out of the dark , and grasped mine for a moment , mightily and tenderly . 
I said to myself The veil between , though very dark , is very thin . 
I caught the great ring . 
The face is very strange and white It is Earth's only spot That feebly flickers back the light The living seeth not . 
I fell asleep , and slept a dreamless sleep , for I know not how long . 
When I awoke , I found that my hostess had moved from where she had been sitting , and now sat between me and the fourth door . 
I guessed that her design was to prevent my entering there . 
I sprang from the couch , and darted past her to the door . 
I opened it at once and went out . 
All I remember is a cry of distress from the woman Don't go there , my child ! Don't go there ! But I was gone . 
Then she bathed my head and face and hands in an icy cold , colourless liquid , which smelt a little of damp earth . 
Immediately I was able to sit up . 
She rose and put some food before me . 
When I had eaten , she said Listen to me , my child . 
You must leave me directly ! Leave you ! I said . 
I am so happy with you . 
I never was so happy in my life . 
But you must go , she rejoined sadly . 
Listen ! What do you hear ? I hear the sound as of a great throbbing of water . 
But as long as I keep my fire burning , they cannot enter . 
I have fuel enough for years and after one year they will sink away again , and be just as they were before you came . 
I have not been buried for a hundred years now . 
And she smiled and wept . 
Alas ! alas ! I cried . 
I have brought this evil on the best and kindest of friends , who has filled my heart with great gifts . 
Do not think of that , she rejoined . 
I can bear it very well . 
You will come back to me some day , I know . 
But I beg you , for my sake , my dear child , to do one thing . 
, knows something , though she must not always tell it , that would quite satisfy you about it , even in the worst moments of your distress . 
She pointed out the direction I must take , to find the isthmus and escape the rising waters . 
I felt very desolate as I went . 
The noble hart that harbours vertuous thought And is with childe of glorious great intent , Can never rest , until it forth have brought Th' eternall brood of glorie excellent . 
SPENSER , The Faerie Queene . 
I had not gone very far before I felt that the turf beneath my feet was soaked with the rising waters . 
But I reached the isthmus in safety . 
It was rocky , and so much higher than the level of the peninsula , that I had plenty of time to cross . 
Ascending a steep acclivity , I found myself at last in an open , rocky country . 
As I approached , I heard the clang of an anvil and so rapid were the blows , that I despaired of making myself heard till a pause in the work should ensue . 
In one hand he held a sword , so lately from the furnace that it yet shone with a dull fire . 
As soon as he saw me , he threw the door wide open , and standing aside , invited me very cordially to enter . 
I did so when he shut and bolted the door most carefully , and then led the way inwards . 
A huge fire roared on the hearth , beside which was an anvil . 
By the anvil stood , in similar undress , and in a waiting attitude , hammer in hand , a second youth , tall as the former , but far more slightly built . 
Reversing the usual course of perception in such meetings , I thought them , at first sight , very unlike and at the second glance , knew that they were brothers . 
The former , and apparently the elder , was muscular and dark , with curling hair , and large hazel eyes , which sometimes grew wondrously soft . 
The second was slender and fair , yet with a countenance like an eagle , and an eye which , though pale blue , shone with an almost fierce expression . 
He stood erect , as if looking from a lofty mountain crag , over a vast plain outstretched below . 
As soon as we entered the hall , the elder turned to me , and I saw that a glow of satisfaction shone on both their faces . 
There they left it and drawing two stools to the fire , sat down , one on each side of me . 
We are very glad to see you , brother . 
We have been expecting you for some days , said the dark haired youth . 
We thought you had known of the bond betwixt us , and the work we have to do together . 
You must tell him , brother , from the first . 
So the elder began Our father is king of this country . 
Before we were born , three giant brothers had appeared in the land . 
No one knew exactly when , and no one had the least idea whence they came . 
They took possession of a ruined castle that had stood unchanged and unoccupied within the memory of any of the country people . 
The vaults of this castle had remained uninjured by time , and these , I presume , they made use of at first . 
They were rarely seen , and never offered the least injury to any one so that they were regarded in the neighbourhood as at least perfectly harmless , if not rather benevolent beings . 
Of course , every one supposed the giants must have a hand in the work , but no one ever saw them engaged in it . 
This wall they were completing , foot by foot , along with the stair . 
At length , with the help of a neighbouring quarry , the whole of the external wall of the castle was finished . 
And now the country folks were in greater fear than before . 
But for several years the giants remained very peaceful . 
Having completed the outside of their castle , they proceeded , by spoiling the country houses around them , to make a quiet luxurious provision for their comfort within . 
Upon these the giants issued in the night , and slew every man of them . 
Many knights have adventured their overthrow , but to their own instead for they have all been slain , or captured , or forced to make a hasty retreat . 
Now , however , we are preparing for the attempt and the grounds of this preparation are these . 
She received us most kindly , and gave us what seems to us the best of advice . 
She first inquired what experience we had had in arms . 
We told her we had been well exercised from our boyhood , and for some years had kept ourselves in constant practice , with a view to this necessity . 
But you have not actually fought for life and death ? said she . 
We were forced to confess we had not . 
So much the better in some respects , she replied . 
Then go to some lonely tower , you two alone . 
Receive no visits from man or woman . 
There forge for yourselves every piece of armour that you wish to wear , or to use , in your coming encounter . 
And keep up your exercises . 
Indeed , I have already seen one who will , I think , be the very man for your fellowship , but it will be some time before he comes to me . 
He is wandering now without an aim . 
I will show him to you in a glass , and , when he comes , you will know him at once . 
If he will share your endeavours , you must teach him all you know , and he will repay you well , in present song , and in future deeds . 
She opened the door of a curious old cabinet that stood in the room . 
On the inside of this door was an oval convex mirror . 
Looking in it for some time , we at length saw reflected the place where we stood , and the old dame seated in her chair . 
Our forms were not reflected . 
But at the feet of the dame lay a young man , yourself , weeping . 
Surely this youth will not serve our ends , said I , for he weeps . 
Past tears are present strength , said she . 
Oh ! said my brother , I saw you weep once over an eagle you shot . 
That was because it was so like you , brother , I replied but indeed , this youth may have better cause for tears than that I was wrong . 
Wait a while , said the woman if I mistake not , he will make you weep till your tears are dry for ever . 
Tears are the only cure for weeping . 
And you may have need of the cure , before you go forth to fight the giants . 
You must wait for him , in your tower , till he comes . 
For that I must wait but I have a feeling that if I work well , song will not be far off to enliven the labour . 
This was all the compact made the brothers required nothing more , and I did not think of giving anything more . 
I rose , and threw off my upper garments . 
I know the uses of the sword , I said . 
I am ashamed of my white hands beside yours so nobly soiled and hard but that shame will soon be wiped away . 
No , no we will not work to day . 
Rest is as needful as toil . 
Bring the wine , brother it is your turn to serve to day . 
The younger brother soon covered a table with rough viands , but good wine and we ate and drank heartily , beside our work . 
Before the meal was over , I had learned all their story . 
Each had something in his heart which made the conviction , that he would victoriously perish in the coming conflict , a real sorrow to him . 
Otherwise they thought they would have lived enough . 
Nor did he seek to further his suit by discovering himself but there was simply so much manhood about him , that no one ever thought of rank when in his company . 
This is what his brother said about it . 
The lady could not help loving him in return . 
The younger brother's grief arose from the fact , that , if they were both slain , his old father , the king , would be childless . 
His love for his father was so exceeding , that to one unable to sympathise with it , it would have appeared extravagant . 
Both loved him equally at heart but the love of the younger had been more developed , because his thoughts and anxieties had not been otherwise occupied . 
When at home , he had been his constant companion and , of late , had ministered to the infirmities of his growing age . 
The grandest triumph possible to his conception was , to return to his father , laden with the spoils of one of the hated giants . 
For , as I have said , they were yet untried in actual conflict . 
Now , thought I , I see to what the powers of my gift must minister . 
For my own part , I did not dread death , for I had nothing to care to live for but I dreaded the encounter because of the responsibility connected with it . 
I resolved however to work hard , and thus grow cool , and quick , and forceful . 
The time passed away in work and song , in talk and ramble , in friendly fight and brotherly aid . 
Therefore I began to make for myself a shirt of steel plates and rings which work , while more troublesome , was better suited to me than the heavier labour . 
Much assistance did the brothers give me , even after , by their instructions , I was able to make some progress alone . 
Their work was in a moment abandoned , to render any required aid to mine . 
As the old woman had promised , I tried to repay them with song and many were the tears they both shed over my ballads and dirges . 
The songs they liked best to hear were two which I made for them . 
I The king sat on his throne Glowing in gold and red The crown in his right hand shone , And the gray hairs crowned his head . 
His only son walks in , And in walls of steel he stands Make me , O father , strong to win , With the blessing of holy hands . 
He knelt before his sire , Who blessed him with feeble smile His eyes shone out with a kingly fire , But his old lips quivered the while . 
Go to the fight , my son , Bring back the giant's head And the crown with which my brows have done , Shall glitter on thine instead . 
My father , I seek no crowns , But unspoken praise from thee For thy people's good , and thy renown , I will die to set them free . 
The king sat down and waited there , And rose not , night nor day Till a sound of shouting filled the air , And cries of a sore dismay . 
Then like a king he sat once more , With the crown upon his head And up to the throne the people bore A mighty giant dead . 
And up to the throne the people bore A pale and lifeless boy . 
The king rose up like a prophet of yore , In a lofty , deathlike joy . 
He put the crown on the chilly brow Thou should'st have reigned with me But Death is the king of both , and now I go to obey with thee . 
Surely some good in me there lay , To beget the noble one . 
The old man smiled like a winter day , And fell beside his son . 
Now I shall hold my head on high , The queen among my kind If ye hear a sound , 'tis only a sigh For a glory left behind . 
The first three times I sang these songs they both wept passionately . 
But after the third time , they wept no more . 
Their eyes shone , and their faces grew pale , but they never wept at any of my songs again . 
CHAPTER XXI I put my life in my hands . 
At length , with much toil and equal delight , our armour was finished . 
We armed each other , and tested the strength of the defence , with many blows of loving force . 
The morning arrived on which we had determined to make the attempt , and succeed or perish perhaps both . 
But most of our preparations were , in their immediate aim at least , frustrated . 
We rose , that fatal morning , by daybreak . 
We had rested from all labour the day before , and now were fresh as the lark . 
We bathed in cold spring water , and dressed ourselves in clean garments , with a sense of preparation , as for a solemn festivity . 
Fear not , my brothers , for we are dead No noise can break our rest The calm of the grave is about the head , And the heart heaves not the breast . 
The brothers knew at once , by my looks , what caused my sudden movement . 
We were utterly unarmed , and there was no time to arm . 
But we seemed to adopt the same resolution simultaneously for each caught up his favourite weapon , and , leaving his defence behind , sprang to the door . 
They were about twice our height , and armed to the teeth . 
Through the visors of their helmets their monstrous eyes shone with a horrible ferocity . 
I was in the middle position , and the middle giant approached me . 
My eyes were busy with his armour , and I was not a moment in settling my mode of attack . 
I expected this would strain the joints of his armour yet more . 
Full of fury , he made at me again but I kept him busy , constantly eluding his blows , and hoping thus to fatigue him . 
Both the giants were down , but so were my brothers . 
I flew first to the one and then to the other couple . 
Both pairs of combatants were dead , and yet locked together , as in the death struggle . 
The elder had buried his battle axe in the body of his foe , and had fallen beneath him as he fell . 
The giant had strangled him in his own death agonies . 
The blood from the giant's throat was yet pouring over the hand of his foe , which still grasped the hilt of the dagger sheathed in the wound . 
I , the least worthy , remained the sole survivor in the lists . 
As I stood exhausted amidst the dead , after the first worthy deed of my life , I suddenly looked behind me , and there lay the Shadow , black in the sunshine . 
I went into the lonely tower , and there lay the useless armour of the noble youths supine as they . 
Ah , how sad it looked ! It was a glorious death , but it was death . 
My songs could not comfort me now . 
I was almost ashamed that I was alive , when they , the true hearted , were no more . 
And yet I breathed freer to think that I had gone through the trial , and had not failed . 
And perhaps I may be forgiven , if some feelings of pride arose in my bosom , when I looked down on the mighty form that lay dead by my hand . 
After all , however , I said to myself , and my heart sank , it was only skill . 
Your giant was but a blunderer . 
I left the bodies of friends and foes , peaceful enough when the death fight was over , and , hastening to the country below , roused the peasants . 
They came with shouting and gladness , bringing waggons to carry the bodies . 
I resolved to take the princes home to their father , each as he lay , in the arms of his country's foe . 
But first I searched the giants , and found the keys of their castle , to which I repaired , followed by a great company of the people . 
It was a place of wonderful strength . 
I released the prisoners , knights and ladies , all in a sad condition , from the cruelties and neglects of the giants . 
It humbled me to see them crowding round me with thanks , when in truth the glorious brothers , lying dead by their lonely tower , were those to whom the thanks belonged . 
I had but aided in carrying out the thought born in their brain , and uttered in visible form before ever I laid hold thereupon . 
Yet I did count myself happy to have been chosen for their brother in this great dead . 
After a few hours spent in refreshing and clothing the prisoners , we all commenced our journey towards the capital . 
This was slow at first but , as the strength and spirits of the prisoners returned , it became more rapid and in three days we reached the palace of the king . 
I will not attempt to describe the behaviour of the grand old king . 
Joy and pride in his sons overcame his sorrow at their loss . 
On me he heaped every kindness that heart could devise or hand execute . 
He used to sit and question me , night after night , about everything that was in any way connected with them and their preparations . 
Our mode of life , and relation to each other , during the time we spent together , was a constant theme . 
He entered into the minutest details of the construction of the armour , even to a peculiar mode of riveting some of the plates , with unwearying interest . 
The king , with gorgeous ceremony , dubbed me knight with his own old hand , in which trembled the sword of his youth . 
During the short time I remained , my company was , naturally , much courted by the young nobles . 
I was in a constant round of gaiety and diversion , notwithstanding that the court was in mourning . 
Ye have indeed left your lives to your people , my great brothers ! I said . 
But I was ever and ever haunted by the old shadow , which I had not seen all the time that I was at work in the tower . 
CHAPTER XXII No one has my form but the I. Schoppe , in JEAN PAUL'S Titan . 
I think man's happiest when he forgets himself . 
CYRIL TOURNEUR , The Revenger's Tragedy . 
On the third day of my journey , I was riding gently along a road , apparently little frequented , to judge from the grass that grew upon it . 
I was approaching a forest . 
Everywhere in Fairy Land forests are the places where one may most certainly expect adventures . 
I thanked him for his advice , which I promised to follow , and rode on . 
His horse , too , was like mine in colour , form , and motion save that , like his rider , he was greater and fiercer than his counterpart . 
The knight rode with beaver up . 
As he halted right opposite to me in the narrow path , barring my way , I saw the reflection of my countenance in the centre plate of shining steel on his breastplate . 
Above it rose the same face his face only , as I have said , larger and fiercer . 
I could not help feeling some admiration of him , but it was mingled with a dim conviction that he was evil , and that I ought to fight with him . 
Let me pass , I said . 
When I will , he replied . 
Something within me said Spear in rest , and ride at him ! else thou art for ever a slave . 
I tried , but my arm trembled so much , that I could not couch my lance . 
To tell the truth , I , who had overcome the giant , shook like a coward before this knight . 
He gave a scornful laugh , that echoed through the wood , turned his horse , and said , without looking round , Follow me . 
I obeyed , abashed and stupefied . 
How long he led , and how long I followed , I cannot tell . 
I never knew misery before , I said to myself . 
One look from him would cow me like a beaten hound . 
I followed , and was silent . 
At length we came to a dreary square tower , in the middle of a dense forest . 
It looked as if scarce a tree had been cut down to make room for it . 
Across the very door , diagonally , grew the stem of a tree , so large that there was just room to squeeze past it in order to enter . 
One miserable square hole in the roof was the only visible suggestion of a window . 
Turret or battlement , or projecting masonry of any kind , it had none . 
Clear and smooth and massy , it rose from its base , and ended with a line straight and unbroken . 
The roof , carried to a centre from each of the four walls , rose slightly to the point where the rafters met . 
Round the base lay several little heaps of either bits of broken branches , withered and peeled , or half whitened bones I could not distinguish which . 
As I approached , the ground sounded hollow beneath my horse's hoofs . 
The knight took a great key from his pocket , and reaching past the stem of the tree , with some difficulty opened the door . 
He turned my horse's head away from the tower , gave him a terrible blow with the flat side of his sword , and sent him madly tearing through the forest . 
Now , said he , enter , and take your companion with you . 
I looked round knight and horse had vanished , and behind me lay the horrible shadow . 
I entered , for I could not help myself and the shadow followed me . 
I had a terrible conviction that the knight and he were one . 
The door closed behind me . 
Now I was indeed in pitiful plight . 
There was literally nothing in the tower but my shadow and me . 
The walls rose right up to the roof in which , as I had seen from without , there was one little square opening . 
This I now knew to be the only window the tower possessed . 
I sat down on the floor , in listless wretchedness . 
As she rose higher and higher , her light crept down the wall over me , till at last it shone right upon my head . 
Instantaneously the walls of the tower seemed to vanish away like a mist . 
So the night wore on . 
I waited for the sun to rise , before I could venture to renew my journey . 
The long dreary day passed . 
My shadow lay black on the floor . 
I felt no hunger , no need of food . 
I watched her light slowly descending the wall , as I might have watched , adown the sky , the long , swift approach of a helping angel . 
Her rays touched me , and I was free . 
Thus night after night passed away . 
I should have died but for this . 
Every night the conviction returned , that I was free . 
Every morning I sat wretchedly disconsolate . 
At length , when the course of the moon no longer permitted her beams to touch me , the night was dreary as the day . 
When I slept , I was somewhat consoled by my dreams but all the time I dreamed , I knew that I was only dreaming . 
But one night , at length , the moon , a mere shred of pallor , scattered a few thin ghostly rays upon me and I think I fell asleep and dreamed . 
I sat in an autumn night before the vintage , on a hill overlooking my own castle . 
My heart sprang with joy . 
Oh , to be a child again , innocent , fearless , without shame or desire ! I walked down to the castle . 
All were in consternation at my absence . 
My sisters were weeping for my loss . 
They sprang up and clung to me , with incoherent cries , as I entered . 
My old friends came flocking round me . 
A gray light shone on the roof of the hall . 
It was the light of the dawn shining through the square window of my tower . 
More earnestly than ever , I longed for freedom after this dream more drearily than ever , crept on the next wretched day . 
I measured by the sunbeams , caught through the little window in the trap of my tower , how it went by , waiting only for the dreams of the night . 
About noon , I started as if something foreign to all my senses and all my experience , had suddenly invaded me yet it was only the voice of a woman singing . 
My whole frame quivered with joy , surprise , and the sensation of the unforeseen . 
Like a living soul , like an incarnation of Nature , the song entered my prison house . 
Each tone folded its wings , and laid itself , like a caressing bird , upon my heart . 
I wept half bitterly , half luxuriously but not long . 
I dashed away the tears , ashamed of a weakness which I thought I had abandoned . 
And now I heard each word distinctly . 
The singer seemed to be standing or sitting near the tower , for the sounds indicated no change of place . 
And through the pavilion the rich winds blow , And through the pavilion the waters go . 
From the narrow desert , O man of pride , Come into the house , so high and wide . 
Hardly knowing what I did , I opened the door . 
Why had I not done so before ? I do not know . 
Her countenance seemed known to me , and yet unknown . 
She looked at me and smiled , when I made my appearance . 
Ah ! were you the prisoner there ? I am very glad I have wiled you out . 
Do you know me then ? Do you not know me ? But you hurt me , and that , I suppose , makes it easy for a man to forget . 
Perhaps I owe you many thanks for breaking it . 
I took the pieces , all black , and wet with crying over them , to the Fairy Queen . 
There was no music and no light in them now . 
But she took them from me , and laid them aside and made me go to sleep in a great hall of white , with black pillars , and many red curtains . 
Nor do I care for it now . 
I have something so much better . 
I do not need the globe to play to me for I can sing . 
I could not sing at all before . 
Now I go about everywhere through Fairy Land , singing till my heart is like to break , just like my globe , for very joy at my own songs . 
And wherever I go , my songs do good , and deliver people . 
And now I have delivered you , and I am so happy . 
She ceased , and the tears came into her eyes . 
All this time , I had been gazing at her and now fully recognised the face of the child , glorified in the countenance of the woman . 
I was ashamed and humbled before her but a great weight was lifted from my thoughts . 
I knelt before her , and thanked her , and begged her to forgive me . 
Rise , rise , she said I have nothing to forgive I thank you . 
She rose , and with a smile and a farewell , turned and left me . 
I dared not ask her to stay in fact , I could hardly speak to her . 
Between her and me , there was a great gulf . 
She was uplifted , by sorrow and well doing , into a region I could hardly hope ever to enter . 
I watched her departure , as one watches a sunset . 
She went like a radiance through the dark wood , which was henceforth bright to me , from simply knowing that such a creature was in it . 
She was bearing the sun to the unsunned spots . 
The light and the music of her broken globe were now in her heart and her brain . 
Many a wrong , and its curing song Many a road , and many an inn Room to roam , but only one home For all the world to win . 
With a sad heart , soothed by humility , and the knowledge of her peace and gladness , I bethought me what now I should do . 
First , I must leave the tower far behind me , lest , in some evil moment , I might be once more caged within its horrible walls . 
But it was ill walking in my heavy armour and besides I had now no right to the golden spurs and the resplendent mail , fitly dulled with long neglect . 
I might do for a squire but I honoured knighthood too highly , to call myself any longer one of the noble brotherhood . 
I stripped off all my armour , piled it under the tree , just where the lady had been seated , and took my unknown way , eastward through the woods . 
Of all my weapons , I carried only a short axe in my hand . 
Then first I knew the delight of being lowly of saying to myself , I am what I am , nothing more . 
I have failed , I said , I have lost myself would it had been my shadow . 
I looked round the shadow was nowhere to be seen . 
Ere long , I learned that it was not myself , but only my shadow , that I had lost . 
I learned that it is better , a thousand fold , for a proud man to fall and be humbled , than to hold up his head in his pride and fancied innocence . 
I learned that he that will be a hero , will barely be a man that he that will be nothing but a doer of his work , is sure of his manhood . 
In nothing was my ideal lowered , or dimmed , or grown less precious I only saw it too plainly , to set myself for a moment beside it . 
Now , however , I took , at first , what perhaps was a mistaken pleasure , in despising and degrading myself . 
Another self seemed to arise , like a white spirit from a dead man , from the dumb and trampled self of the past . 
Doubtless , this self must again die and be buried , and again , from its tomb , spring a winged child but of this my history as yet bears not the record . 
A sweet attractive kinde of grace , A full assurance given by lookes , Continuall comfort in a face , The lineaments of Gospel bookes . 
MATTHEW ROYDON , on Sir Philip Sidney . 
It was a full , deep , manly voice , but withal clear and melodious . 
Now it burst on the ear with a sudden swell , and anon , dying away as suddenly , seemed to come to me across a great space . 
Nevertheless , it drew nearer till , at last , I could distinguish the words of the song , and get transient glimpses of the singer , between the columns of the trees . 
He came nearer , dawning upon me like a growing thought . 
He was a knight , armed from head to heel , mounted upon a strange looking beast , whose form I could not understand . 
The words which I heard him sing were like these Heart be stout , And eye be true Good blade out ! And ill shall rue . 
Courage , horse ! Thou lackst no skill Well thy force Hath matched my will . 
For the foe With fiery breath , At a blow , It still in death . 
Gently , horse ! Tread fearlessly 'Tis his corse That burdens thee . 
The sun's eye Is fierce at noon Thou and I Will rest full soon . 
And new strength New work will meet Till , at length , Long rest is sweet . 
It was no wonder that , with such a drag at his heels , the horse could make but slow progress , notwithstanding his evident dismay . 
The horrid , serpent like head , with its black tongue , forked with red , hanging out of its jaws , dangled against the horse's side . 
Its neck was covered with long blue hair , its sides with scales of green and gold . 
Its back was of corrugated skin , of a purple hue . 
Its belly was similar in nature , but its colour was leaden , dashed with blotches of livid blue . 
Its skinny , bat like wings and its tail were of a dull gray . 
The knight was passing me with a salutation but , as I walked towards him , he reined up , and I stood by his stirrup . 
But I could have thrown my arms around him , because she loved him . 
I made my request in as few words as possible . 
He hesitated for a moment , and looked at me thoughtfully . 
I saw that he suspected who I was , but that he continued uncertain of his suspicion . 
Squire and knight should be friends , said he can you take me by the hand ? And he held out the great gauntleted right hand . 
I grasped it willingly and strongly . 
Not a word more was said . 
The knight gave the sign to his horse , which again began his slow march , and I walked beside and a little behind . 
I was forced to leave her with the hermit , as I returned . 
You will find her there , and I think she will get better . 
You see I have brought you a present . 
This wretch will not hurt you again . 
And he undid the creature's neck , and flung the frightful burden down by the cottage door . 
The woman was now almost out of sight in the wood but the husband stood at the door , with speechless thanks in his face . 
You must bury the monster , said the knight . 
If I had arrived a moment later , I should have been too late . 
But now you need not fear , for such a creature as this very rarely appears , in the same part , twice during a lifetime . 
Will you not dismount and rest you , Sir Knight ? said the peasant , who had , by this time , recovered himself a little . 
That I will , thankfully , said he and , dismounting , he gave the reins to me , and told me to unbridle the horse , and lead him into the shade . 
You need not tie him up , he added he will not run away . 
When I returned , after obeying his orders , and entered the cottage , I saw the knight seated , without his helmet , and talking most familiarly with the simple host . 
I stood at the open door for a moment , and , gazing at him , inwardly justified the white lady in preferring him to me . 
A nobler countenance I never saw . 
Loving kindness beamed from every line of his face . 
It seemed as if he would repay himself for the late arduous combat , by indulging in all the gentleness of a womanly heart . 
But when the talk ceased for a moment , he seemed to fall into a reverie . 
Then the exquisite curves of the upper lip vanished . 
The lip was lengthened and compressed at the same moment . 
You could have told that , within the lips , the teeth were firmly closed . 
The whole face grew stern and determined , all but fierce only the eyes burned on like a holy sacrifice , uplift on a granite rock . 
The woman entered , with her mangled child in her arms . 
She was pale as her little burden . 
She gazed , with a wild love and despairing tenderness , on the still , all but dead face , white and clear from loss of blood and terror . 
The light that had been confined to his eyes , now shone from his whole countenance . 
He took the little thing in his arms , and , with the mother's help , undressed her , and looked to her wounds . 
The tears flowed down his face as he did so . 
With tender hands he bound them up , kissed the pale cheek , and gave her back to her mother . 
I brought the knight his steed , held the stirrup while he mounted , and then followed him through the wood . 
The horse , delighted to be free of his hideous load , bounded beneath the weight of man and armour , and could hardly be restrained from galloping on . 
But the knight made him time his powers to mine , and so we went on for an hour or two . 
Then the knight dismounted , and compelled me to get into the saddle , saying Knight and squire must share the labour . 
Holding by the stirrup , he walked along by my side , heavily clad as he was , with apparent ease . 
As we went , he led a conversation , in which I took what humble part my sense of my condition would permit me . 
Somehow or other , said he , notwithstanding the beauty of this country of Faerie , in which we are , there is much that is wrong in it . 
If there are great splendours , there are corresponding horrors heights and depths beautiful women and awful fiends noble men and weaklings . 
All a man has to do , is to better what he can . 
But he will not always come off well , I ventured to say . 
Perhaps not , rejoined the knight , in the individual act but the result of his lifetime will content him . 
I , however , being only a man , such as you see me , am ready to tell you anything you like to ask me , as far as I can . 
The little beggar girl came into the hall where I was sitting , and told me a very curious story , which I can only recollect very vaguely , it was so peculiar . 
What I can recall is , that she was sent to gather wings . 
She said she had to beg her wings from the butterflies and moths and wherever she begged , no one refused her . 
When she got up , she saw the wood was full of these beings stalking about , and seeming to have nothing to do with each other . 
I asked her what they were like . 
She said , like great men , made of wood , without knee or elbow joints , and without any noses or mouths or eyes in their faces . 
I laughed at the little maiden , thinking she was making child's game of me but , although she burst out laughing too , she persisted in asserting the truth of her story . 
Only come , knight , come and see I will lead you . 
As she walked before me , I looked attentively at her . 
But beneath her scanty garments complete wings could not be concealed , and indeed , from her own story , they were yet unfinished . 
There they are , there they are ! cried the child , in a tone of victory mingled with terror . 
Except for this tone , I should have thought she referred to the butterflies , for I could see nothing else . 
The child instantly began murmuring Butterfly , butterfly , give me your wings' when , the moment after , she fell to the ground , and began crying as if hurt . 
I drew my sword and heaved a great blow in the direction in which the child had fallen . 
It struck something , and instantly the most grotesque imitation of a man became visible . 
I had hewn off one of its legs , but the two portions moved on as best they could , quite independent of each other so that I had done no good . 
I saw that something else must be done . 
I served this one so , however and then told the girl to beg again , and point out the direction in which one was coming . 
I was glad to find , however , that I could now see him myself , and wondered how they could have been invisible before . 
But suddenly the right plan occurred to me . 
I tripped one of them up , and , taking him by the legs , set him up on his head , with his heels against a tree . 
I was delighted to find he could not move . 
Meantime the poor child was walked over by the other , but it was for the last time . 
What became of her ? I asked . 
I could not arrange her story in my mind at all , although it seemed to leave hers in some certain order of its own . 
My wife Here the knight checked himself , and said no more . 
Neither did I urge the conversation farther . 
I loved the knight more and more . 
This , I said to myself , is a true man . 
I will serve him , and give him all worship , seeing in him the imbodiment of what I would fain become . 
If I cannot be noble myself , I will yet be servant to his nobleness . 
But I burned to do something more for him than the ordinary routine of a squire's duty permitted . 
One afternoon , we began to observe an appearance of roads in the wood . 
Branches had been cut down , and openings made , where footsteps had worn no path below . 
At some little distance , on both hands , we observed signs of similar avenues , which appeared to converge with ours , towards one spot . 
Along these we indistinctly saw several forms moving , which seemed , with ourselves , to approach the common centre . 
Our path brought us , at last , up to a wall of yew trees , growing close together , and intertwining their branches so , that nothing could be seen beyond it . 
An opening was cut in it like a door , and all the wall was trimmed smooth and perpendicular . 
The knight dismounted , and waited till I had provided for his horse's comfort upon which we entered the place together . 
It was a great space , bare of trees , and enclosed by four walls of yew , similar to that through which we had entered . 
The space contained was a parallelogram of great length . 
For some distance inwards , the space between these opposite rows was filled with a company of men and women and children , in holiday attire . 
The looks of all were directed inwards , towards the further end . 
Far beyond the crowd , in a long avenue , seeming to narrow in the distance , went the long rows of the white robed men . 
On what the attention of the multitude was fixed , we could not tell , for the sun had set before we arrived , and it was growing dark within . 
It grew darker and darker . 
The multitude waited in silence . 
The stars began to shine down into the enclosure , and they grew brighter and larger every moment . 
A young girl who stood beside me , clothed in the same dress as the priests , bowed her head , and grew pale with awe . 
The knight whispered to me , How solemn it is ! Surely they wait to hear the voice of a prophet . 
There is something good near ! But I , though somewhat shaken by the feeling expressed by my master , yet had an unaccountable conviction that here was something bad . 
So I resolved to be keenly on the watch for what should follow . 
At the farther end a throne stood upon a platform , high above the heads of the surrounding priests . 
To this platform I saw the company begin to ascend , apparently by an inclined plane or gentle slope . 
The throne itself was elevated again , on a kind of square pedestal , to the top of which led a flight of steps . 
On the throne sat a majestic looking figure , whose posture seemed to indicate a mixture of pride and benignity , as he looked down on the multitude below . 
Here they crowded close behind the youth , putting him in the foremost place , and one of them opened a door in the pedestal , for the youth to enter . 
I was sure I saw him shrink back , and those crowding behind pushed him in . 
Then , again , arose a burst of song from the multitude in white , which lasted some time . 
When it ceased , a new company of seven commenced its march up the centre . 
As they advanced , I looked up at my master his noble countenance was full of reverence and awe . 
Incapable of evil himself , he could scarcely suspect it in another , much less in a multitude such as this , and surrounded with such appearances of solemnity . 
I could not tell how far he might be led to countenance , and otherwise support their doings , before he should find cause to repent bitterly of his error . 
I watched the new procession yet more keenly , if possible , than the former . 
This time , the central figure was a girl and , at the close , I observed , yet more indubitably , the shrinking back , and the crowding push . 
What happened to the victims , I never learned but I had learned enough , and I could bear it no longer . 
I stooped , and whispered to the young girl who stood by me , to lend me her white garment . 
I wanted it , that I might not be entirely out of keeping with the solemnity , but might have at least this help to passing unquestioned . 
She looked up , half amused and half bewildered , as if doubting whether I was in earnest or not . 
But in her perplexity , she permitted me to unfasten it , and slip it down from her shoulders . 
I easily got possession of it and , sinking down on my knees in the crowd , I rose apparently in the habit of one of the worshippers . 
I was permitted to walk up the long avenue of white robes unmolested , though I saw questioning looks in many of the faces as I passed . 
When I arrived on the platform , the song had just ceased , and I felt as if all were looking towards me . 
In this I failed at first , for I found it firmly fixed . 
Its displacement revealed a great hole in the throne , like the hollow of a decayed tree , going down apparently a great way . 
But now arose a wild cry of wrath and revenge and rescue . 
A universal hiss of steel , as every sword was swept from its scabbard , seemed to tear the very air in shreds . 
I heard the rush of hundreds towards the platform on which I knelt . 
I only tightened my grasp of the brute's throat . 
His eyes were already starting from his head , and his tongue was hanging out . 
My anxious hope was , that , even after they had killed me , they would be unable to undo my gripe of his throat , before the monster was past breathing . 
I therefore threw all my will , and force , and purpose , into the grasping hand . 
A faintness came over me , and my consciousness departed . 
CHAPTER XXIV We are ne'er like angels till our passions die . 
I was dead , and right content . 
I lay in my coffin , with my hands folded in peace . 
The knight , and the lady I loved , wept over me . 
Her tears fell on my face . 
Ah ! said the knight , I rushed amongst them like a madman . 
I hewed them down like brushwood . 
Their swords battered on me like hail , but hurt me not . 
I cut a lane through to my friend . 
But he had throttled the monster , and I had to cut the handful out of its throat , before I could disengage and carry off his body . 
They dared not molest me as I brought him back . 
He has died well , said the lady . 
They left me to my repose . 
I felt as if a cool hand had been laid upon my heart , and had stilled it . 
The hot fever of life had gone by , and I breathed the clear mountain air of the land of Death . 
I had never dreamed of such blessedness . 
It was not that I had in any way ceased to be what I had been . 
They rose above their vanishing earthly garments , and disclosed themselves angels of light . 
Ere long , they bore me to my grave . 
It has not the same hollow rattle within the coffin , that it sends up to the edge of the grave . 
They buried me in no graveyard . 
I seemed to feel the great heart of the mother beating into mine , and feeding me with her own life , her own essential being and nature . 
I heard the footsteps of my friends above , and they sent a thrill through my heart . 
The flower caught her eye . 
She stooped and plucked it , saying , Oh , you beautiful creature ! and , lightly kissing it , put it in her bosom . 
It was the first kiss she had ever given me . 
But the flower soon began to wither , and I forsook it . 
The sun was below the horizon but his rosy beams yet illuminated a feathery cloud , that floated high above the world . 
I arose , I reached the cloud and , throwing myself upon it , floated with it in sight of the sinking sun . 
He sank , and the cloud grew gray but the grayness touched not my heart . 
It carried its rose hue within for now I could love without needing to be loved again . 
The moon came gliding up with all the past in her wan face . 
She changed my couch into a ghostly pallor , and threw all the earth below as to the bottom of a pale sea of dreams . 
But she could not make me sad . 
Yet all love will , one day , meet with its return . 
All true love will , one day , behold its own image in the eyes of the beloved , and be humbly glad . 
This is possible in the realms of lofty Death . 
Ah ! my friends , thought I , how I will tend you , and wait upon you , and haunt you with my love . 
My floating chariot bore me over a great city . 
CHAPTER XXV Our life is no dream but it ought to become one , and perhaps will . 
And on the ground , which is my modres gate , I knocke with my staf erlich and late , And say to hire , Leve mother , let me in . 
CHAUCER , The Pardoneres Tale . 
It was a sad revulsion of feeling . 
This , indeed , seemed to correspond to what we think death is , before we die . 
Yet I felt within me a power of calm endurance to which I had hitherto been a stranger . 
For , in truth , that I should be able if only to think such things as I had been thinking , was an unspeakable delight . 
An hour of such peace made the turmoil of a lifetime worth striving through . 
I found myself lying in the open air , in the early morning , before sunrise . 
Over me rose the summer heaven , expectant of the sun . 
The clouds already saw him , coming from afar and soon every dewdrop would rejoice in his individual presence within it . 
I lay motionless for a few minutes and then slowly rose and looked about me . 
I was on the summit of a little hill a valley lay beneath , and a range of mountains closed up the view upon that side . 
But , to my horror , across the valley , and up the height of the opposing mountains , stretched , from my very feet , a hugely expanding shade . 
There it lay , long and large , dark and mighty . 
It was only the natural shadow , that goes with every man who walks in the sun . 
As he arose , higher and higher , the shadow head sank down the side of the opposite hill , and crept in across the valley towards my feet . 
Now that I was so joyously delivered from this fear , I saw and recognised the country around me . 
In the valley below , lay my own castle , and the haunts of my childhood were all about me hastened home . 
They had been in great distress about me . 
I had been gone , they told me , twenty one days . 
To me it seemed twenty one years . 
Nor could I yet feel quite secure in my new experiences . 
My dreams were incessant and perturbed but when I did awake , I saw clearly that I was in my own home . 
My mind soon grew calm and I began the duties of my new position , somewhat instructed , I hoped , by the adventures that had befallen me in Fairy Land . 
Could I translate the experience of my travels there , into common life ? This was the question . 
Even yet , I find myself looking round sometimes with anxiety , to see whether my shadow falls right away from the sun or no . 
I have never yet discovered any inclination to either side . 
May the world be brighter for me , at least in those portions of it , where my darkness falls not . 
Thus I , who set out to find my Ideal , came back rejoicing that I had lost my Shadow . 
I then console myself by saying I have come through the door of Dismay and the way back from the world into which that has led me , is through my tomb . 
Upon that the red sign lies , and I shall find it one day , and be glad . 
I will end my story with the relation of an incident which befell me a few days ago . 
As I lay , with my eyes closed , I began to listen to the sound of the leaves overhead . 
I fancied that the sound reminded me of the voice of the ancient woman , in the cottage that was four square . 
But when I looked more keenly , I saw only twigs and leaves , and the infinite sky , in tiny spots , gazing through between . 
Yet I know that good is coming to me that good is always coming though few have at all times the simplicity and the courage to believe it . 
What we call evil , is the only and best shape , which , for the person and his condition at the time , could be assumed by the best good . 
