The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Chapter XXXIX Gothic Kingdom Of Italy . 
Part I. Zeno And Anastasius , Emperors Of The East . 
Birth , Education , And First Exploits Of Theodoric The Ostrogoth . 
His Invasion And Conquest Of Italy . 
The Gothic Kingdom Of Italy . 
Last Acts And Death Of Theodoric . 
During the same period , Italy revived and flourished under the government of a Gothic king , who might have deserved a statue among the best and bravest of the ancient Romans . 
Theodoric the Ostrogoth , the fourteenth in lineal descent of the royal line of the Amali , was born in the neighborhood of Vienna two years after the death of Attila . 
The royal hostage was educated at Constantinople with care and tenderness . 
As soon as he had attained the age of eighteen , he was restored to the wishes of the Ostrogoths , whom the emperor aspired to gain by liberality and confidence . 
His ferocious subjects admired the strength and stature of their young prince and he soon convinced them that he had not degenerated from the valor of his ancestors . 
Such triumphs , however , were productive only of fame , and the invincible Ostrogoths were reduced to extreme distress by the want of clothing and food . 
has drawn the pedigree of Theodoric from Gapt , one of the Anses or Demigods , who lived about the time of Domitian . 
reckons the grandson of Theodoric as the xviith in descent . 
labors to connect this genealogy with the legends or traditions of his native country . 
Note Amala was a name of hereditary sanctity and honor among the Visigoths . 
It enters into the names of Amalaberga , Amala suintha , Amalafred , Amalarich . 
In the poem of the Nibelungen written three hundred years later , the Ostrogoths are called the Amilungen . 
According to Wachter it means , unstained , from the privative a , and malo a stain . 
It is pure Sanscrit , Amala , immaculatus . 
! The date of Theodoric's birth is not accurately determined . 
We can hardly err , observes Manso , in placing it between the years and , Manso , Geschichte des Ost Gothischen Reichs , p . 
Note Le Beau and his Commentator , M. St . 
Martin , support , though with no very satisfactory evidence , the opposite opinion . 
urges the much stronger argument , the Byzantine education of Theodroic . 
then proceeds to celebrate the complexion , eyes , hands , c , of his sovereign . 
who erroneously styles him the son of Walamir . 
But the reign of the usurper was short and turbulent . 
The haughty spirit of Verina was still incapable of submission or repose . 
inserts a copy of her sacred letters to the provinces . 
Such female pretensions would have astonished the slaves of the first Caesars . 
and in various articles of the Lexicon of Suidas . 
are originals for the reigns of Zeno and Anastasius and I must acknowledge , almost for the last time , my obligations to the large and accurate collections of Tillemont , . 
It is vague and pedantic , and contains few facts . 
The same criticism will apply to the poetical panegyric of Priscian edited from the Ms. of Bobbio by Ang . 
Priscian , the gram marian , Niebuhr argues from this work , must have been born in the African , not in either of the Asiatic Caesareas . 
He reigned , not as the monarch , but as the minister of a ferocious people , whose spirit was unbroken by slavery , and impatient of real or imaginary insults . 
These measures were disappointed by mutual jealousy . 
In ipsis congressionis tuae foribus cessit invasor , cum profugo per te sceptra redderentur de salute dubitanti . 
into Aethiopia , beyond the tropic of Cancer . 
and Theophanes , is more sober and rational . 
betrays his prejudice and passion in Graeciam debacchantem . 
beneficiis nunquam satiatus , c . 
Gibbon has omitted much of the complicated intrigues of the Byzantine court with the two Theodorics . 
The weak emperor attempted to play them one against the other , and was himself in turn insulted , and the empire ravaged , by both . 
The details of the successive alliance and revolt , of hostility and of union , between the two Gothic chieftains , to dictate terms to the emperor , may be found in Malchus . 
Direct me , with my national troops , to march against the tyrant . 
The proposal of Theodoric was accepted , and perhaps had been suggested , by the Byzantine court . 
In a single action , which was decided by the skill and discipline of Sabinian , Theodoric could lose men . 
has abridged the great history of Cassiodorus . 
when the bombast of the oration is translated into the language of common sense . 
Our glory , said he , is mutual and inseparable . 
You are known to the world as the mother of Theodoric and it becomes me to prove , that I am the genuine offspring of those heroes from whom I claim my descent . 
We must recollect how much the royal title was multiplied and degraded , and that the mercenaries of Italy were the fragments of many tribes and nations . 
Note Gibbon here assumes that the mother of Theodoric was the concubine of Theodemir , which he leaves doubtful in the text . 
his words are curious Would you return ? c . 
She presented and almost displayed the original recess . 
Note The authority of Sigonius would scarcely have weighed with Gibboa except for an indecent anecdote . 
I have a recollection of a similar story in some of the Italian wars . 
At length , destitute of provisions and hopeless of relief , that unfortunate monarch yielded to the groans of his subjects and the clamors of his soldiers . 
The event of such an agreement may be easily foreseen . 
has not left any just representation of the events which displayed , or of the defects which clouded , the virtues of Theodoric . 
approves himself an impartial sceptic . 
are loyal and credulous , and the testimony of the Valesian Fragment may justify their belief . 
Two or three years afterwards , the orator was rewarded with the bishopric of Pavia , which he held till his death in the year . 
Our best materials are occasional hints from Procopius and the Valesian Fragment , which was discovered by Sirmond , and is published at the end of Ammianus Marcellinus . 
The author's name is unknown , and his style is barbarous but in his various facts he exhibits the knowledge , without the passions , of a contemporary . 
The president Montesquieu had formed the plan of a history of Theodoric , which at a distance might appear a rich and interesting subject . 
The best edition of the Variarum Libri xii . 
but they deserved and required such an editor as the Marquis Scipio Maffei , who thought of publishing them at Verona . 
The service of the palace and of the frontiers was performed by choice or by rotation and each extraordinary fatigue was recompensed by an increase of pay and occasional donatives . 
Theodoric had convinced his brave companions , that empire must be acquired and defended by the same arts . 
Manso observes that this division was conducted not in a violent and irregular , but in a legal and orderly , manner . 
He conceives that estates too small to bear division paid a third of their produce . 
Geschichte des Os Gothischen Reiches , p . 
M. Procopius , Gothic , l . 
exaggerates the injustice of the Goths , whom he hated as an Italian noble . 
The plebeian Muratori crouches under their oppression . 
the military arts and increasing numbers of the Goths . 
The Gothic nobility must have been as numerous as brave . 
quotes two passages from Cassiodorus to show that the Goths were not exempt from the fiscal claims . 
The Roman boys learnt the language of the Goths . 
Note Compare Manso , Geschichte des Ost Gothischen Reiches , p . 
M. Chapter XXXIX Gothic Kingdom Of Italy . 
Among the Barbarians of the West , the victory of Theodoric had spread a general alarm . 
The king of these savage warriors solicited the friendship of Theodoric , and was elevated to the rank of his son , according to the barbaric rites of a military adoption . 
who gives the different styles of friendship , counsel expostulation , c . 
The admiration of strangers is represented as the most rational motive to justify these vain expenses , and to stimulate the diligence of the officers to whom these provinces were intrusted . 
each of these epistles affords some curious knowledge of the policy and manners of the Barbarians . 
Peace , honorable peace , was the constant aim of Theodoric . 
Note Compare Manso , Ost Gothische Reich . 
Malte Brun brings them from Scandinavia their names , the only remains of their language , are Gothic . 
They fought almost naked , like the Icelandic Berserkirs their bravery was like madness few in number , they were mostly of royal blood . 
Among themselves there is the same ferocity the sick and the aged are put to death . 
at their own request , during a solemn festival the widow ends her days by hanging herself upon the tree which shadows her husband's tomb . 
Their name , sometimes written Heruli or Eruli . 
nobles , and appears to correspond better with the Scandinavian word iarl or earl , than with any of those numerous derivations proposed by etymologists . 
Of all the Barbarians who threw themselves on the ruins of the Roman empire , it is most difficult to trace the origin of the Heruli . 
They seem never to have been very powerful as a nation , and branches of them are found in countries very remote from each other . 
In my opinion they belong to the Gothic race , and have a close affinity with the Scyrri or Hirri . 
They were , possibly , a division of that nation . 
They are often mingled and confounded with the Alani . 
nor did they found any state . 
M. Schafarck considers them descendants of the Hirri . 
of which Heruli is a diminutive , Slawische Alter thinner M. . 
The spirit and forms of this martial institution are noticed by Cassiodorus but he seems to have only translated the sentiments of the Gothic king into the language of Roman eloquence . 
describes the amber for which their shores have ever been famous , as the gum of a tree , hardened by the sun , and purified and wafted by the waves . 
When that singular substance is analyzed by the chemists , it yields a vegetable oil and a mineral acid . 
Neither the Goth nor the Greek had visited the country both had conversed with the natives in their exile at Ravenna or Constantinople . 
In the time of Jornandes they inhabited Suethans , the proper Sweden but that beautiful race of animals has gradually been driven into the eastern parts of Siberia . 
the phoenix of the Edda , and the annual death and revival of Adonis and Osiris , are the allegorical symbols of the absence and return of the sun in the Arctic regions . 
This ingenious writer is a worthy disciple of the great Buffon nor is it easy for the coldest reason to withstand the magic of their philosophy . 
a sentence which Tacitus would not have disowned . 
The life of Theodoric represents the rare and meritorious example of a Barbarian , who sheathed his sword in the pride of victory and the vigor of his age . 
des Peuples Anciens , c . 
These armed boats should be still smaller than the thousand vessels of Agamemnon at the siege of Troy . 
record his salutary protection of the Alemanni . 
I will neither hear nor reconcile the long and contradictory arguments of the Abbe Dubos and the Count de Buat , about the wars of Burgundy . 
The Gothic palace of Ravenna reflected the image of the court of Theodosius or Valentinian . 
! It had been the object of Augustus to conceal the introduction of monarchy it was the policy of Theodoric to disguise the reign of a Barbarian . 
Theodoric loved the virtues which he possessed , and the talents of which he was destitute . 
Liberius was promoted to the office of Praetorian praefect for his unshaken fidelity to the unfortunate cause of Odoacer . 
The ministers of Theodoric , Cassiodorus , and Boethius , have reflected on his reign the lustre of their genius and learning . 
Procopius affirms that no laws whatsoever were promulgated by Theodoric and the succeeding kings of Italy , He must mean in the Gothic language . 
A Latin edict of Theodoric is still extant , in one hundred and fifty four articles . 
who celebrate the friendship of Anastasius and Theodoric but the figurative style of compliment was interpreted in a very different sense at Constantinople and Ravenna . 
All causes between Roman and Roman were judged by the old Roman courts . 
the comes Gothorum , with a Roman jurist as his assessor , making a kind of mixed jurisdiction , but with a natural predominance to the side of the Goth Savigny , vol . 
But of these Sardinia and Corsica were possessed by the Vandals , and the two Rhaetias , as well as the Cottian Alps , seem to have been abandoned to a military government . 
! Manso enumerates and develops at some length the following sources of the royal revenue of Theodoric . 
A domain , either by succession to that of Odoacer , or a part of the third of the lands was reserved for the royal patrimony . 
Regalia , including mines , unclaimed estates , treasure trove , and confiscations . 
Aurarium , like the Chrysargyrum , a tax on certain branches of trade . 
Siliquaticum , a small tax on the sale of all kinds of commodities . 
Portoria , customs Manso , , . 
supposes that in many cases the property remained in the original owner , who paid his tertia , a third of the produce to the crown , vol . 
were special and temporary commissions . 
were successively employed in the administration of Theodoric . 
, enjoyed the friendship of Aetius , and was one of the ambassadors sent to arrest the progress of Attila . 
Cassiodorus himself was first the treasurer of the private expenditure to Odoacer , afterwards count of the sacred largesses . 
He was five times Praetorian praefect under different sovereigns , the last time in the reign of Vitiges . 
This is the theory of Manso , which is not unencumbered with difficulties . 
M. Buat had supposed that it was the father of Cassiodorus who held the office first named . 
, and Beylage , vii . 
It certainly appears improbable that Cassiodorus should have been count of the sacred largesses at twenty years old . 
M. As the patron of the republic , it was the interest and duty of the Gothic king to cultivate the affections of the senate and people . 
The nobles of Rome were flattered by sonorous epithets and formal professions of respect , which had been more justly applied to the merit and authority of their ancestors . 
The people enjoyed , without fear or danger , the three blessings of a capital , order , plenty , and public amusements . 
He imprinted the footsteps of a conqueror on the Capitoline hill , and frankly confessed that each day he viewed with fresh wonder the forum of Trajan and his lofty column . 
The Gothic kings , so injuriously accused of the ruin of antiquity , were anxious to preserve the monuments of the nation whom they had subdued . 
A similar care was extended to the statues of metal or marble of men or animals . 
, who has contrived to sprinkle the subject with ostentatious , though agreeable , learning . 
In the scale of public and personal merit , the Gothic conqueror is at least as much above Valentinian , as he may seem inferior to Trajan . 
and his descriptions are not unworthy of the reader's perusal . 
How such works could be executed by a king of Rome , is yet a problem . 
Note See Niebuhr , vol . 
relates a foolish story of Myron's cow , which is celebrated by the false with of thirty six Greek epigrams , Antholog . 
) Chapter XXXIX Gothic Kingdom Of Italy . 
After the example of the last emperors , Theodoric preferred the residence of Ravenna , where he cultivated an orchard with his own hands . 
But the happiness of the subject was more truly conspicuous in the busy scene of labor and luxury , in the rapid increase and bold enjoyment of national wealth . 
The rich productions of Lucania and the adjacent provinces were exchanged at the Marcilian fountain , in a populous fair annually dedicated to trade , intemperance , and superstition . 
Agriculture revived under the shadow of peace , and the number of husbandmen was multiplied by the redemption of captives . 
A country possessed of so many valuable objects of exchange soon attracted the merchants of the world , whose beneficial traffic was encouraged and protected by the liberal spirit of Theodoric . 
on this garden and the royal gardener . 
His amputes Gothic architecture , like the corruption of language , writing c . 
, not to the Barbarians , but to the Italians themselves . 
observes that the image of Theodoric's palace is represented in Maffei , not from a coin , but from a seal . 
where there is likewise an engraving from a mosaic in the church of St . 
Apollinaris in Ravenna , representing a building ascribed to Theodoric in that city . 
Neither of these , as Mr. Hallam justly observes , in the least approximates to what is called the Gothic style . 
They are evidently the degenerate Roman architecture , and more resemble the early attempts of our architects to get back from our national Gothic into a classical Greek style . 
One of them calls to mind Inigo Jones inner quadrangle in St . 
Compare Hallam and D'Agincon vol . 
are agreeably painted in the Epistles of Cassiodorus . 
In Liguria numerosa agricolarum progenies , St . 
Epiphanius of Pavia redeemed by prayer or ransom captives from the Burgundians of Lyons and Savoy . 
Such deeds are the best of miracles . 
fair of Leucothoe or St . 
Note The inscription commemorative of the draining of the Pomptine marshes may be found in many works in Gruter , Inscript . 
With variations , in Nicolai De' bonificamenti delle terre Pontine , p . 
In Sartorius , in his prize essay on the reign of Theodoric , and Manse Beylage , xi . 
Corn was distributed from the granaries at xv or xxv modii for a piece of gold , and the price was still moderate . 
But the persuasion of Theodoric was not infected by zeal and he piously adhered to the heresy of his fathers , without condescending to balance the subtile arguments of theological metaphysics . 
Peter , without any scrupulous inquiry into the creed of the apostle . 
He was not ignorant of the dignity and importance of the Roman pontiff , to whom the venerable name of Pope was now appropriated . 
When the chair of St . 
At the end of his life , in a moment of jealousy and resentment , he prevented the choice of the Romans , by nominating a pope in the palace of Ravenna . 
See the life of St . 
The king presented him with gold solidi , and a discus of silver of the weight of sixty pounds . 
Epiphanii , in Sirmond , Op . 
Theodoric bestowed some important favors on this bishop , whom he used as a counsellor in peace and war . 
which prove , at the same time , that he was the head of the church as well as of the state . 
Note He recommended the same toleration to the emperor Justin . 
and the xviith Annotation of Mascou . 
Baronius , Pagi , and most of the Catholic doctors , confess , with an angry growl , this Gothic usurpation . 
He disabled them alicentia testandi and all Italy mourned lamentabili justitio . 
is the more weighty , as he lived and died under the reign of Theodoric . 
Boethius de Consolatione Philosphiae , l . 
pro ipsorum salute , c . 
yet these are no more than words . 
Even the religious toleration which Theodoric had the glory of introducing into the Christian world , was painful and offensive to the orthodox zeal of the Italians . 
The government which could neglect , would have deserved such an outrage . 
This simple act of justice exasperated the discontent of the Catholics , who applauded the merit and patience of these holy confessors . 
Three hundred pulpits deplored the persecution of the church and if the chapel of St . 
Stephen at Verona was demolished by the command of Theodoric , it is probable that some miracle hostile to his name and dignity had been performed on that sacred theatre . 
The Gothic conqueror condescended to disarm the unwarlike natives of Italy , interdicting all weapons of offence , and excepting only a small knife for domestic use . 
The deliverer of Rome was accused of conspiring with the vilest informers against the lives of senators whom he suspected of a secret and treasonable correspondence with the Byzantine court . 
! At his stern command , the Roman pontiff , with four illustrious senators , embarked on an embassy , of which he must have alike dreaded the failure or the success . 
Rome , See likewise Basnage , Hist . 
See History of the Jews vol . 
M. Rex avidus communis exitii , c . 
These are hard words they speak the passions of the Italians and those of Theodoric himself . 
Compare Le Beau , vol viii . 
A gentle pressure and paraphrase of their words is no violence . 
of the two Pagis , the uncle and the nephew . 
The senator Boethius is the last of the Romans whom Cato or Tully could have acknowledged for their countryman . 
For the benefit of his Latin readers , his genius submitted to teach the first elements of the arts and sciences of Greece . 
And he alone was esteemed capable of describing the wonders of art , a sun dial , a water clock , or a sphere which represented the motions of the planets . 
Notwithstanding the equal claims of the East and West , his two sons were created , in their tender youth , the consuls of the same year . 
and Fabricius may be usefully consulted . 
Bibliothecae comptos ebore ac vitro parietes , c . 
afford many proofs of the high reputation which he enjoyed in his own times . 
It is true , that the bishop of Pavia wanted to purchase of him an old house at Milan , and praise might be tendered and accepted in part of payment . 
Note Gibbon translated vitro , marble under the impression , no doubt that glass was unknown . 
M. Pagi , Muratori , c . 
, are agreed that Boethius himself was consul in the year , his two sons in , and in , perhaps , his father . 
A desire of ascribing the last of these consulships to the philosopher had perplexed the chronology of his life . 
A philosopher , liberal of his wealth and parsimonious of his time , might be insensible to the common allurements of ambition , the thirst of gold and employment . 
For the integrity of his public conduct he appeals to the memory of his country . 
His authority had restrained the pride and oppression of the royal officers , and his eloquence had delivered Paulianus from the dogs of the palace . 
But the favor and fidelity of Boethius declined in just proportion with the public happiness and an unworthy colleague was imposed to divide and control the power of the master of the offices . 
The senator Albinus was accused and already convicted on the presumption of hoping , as it was said , the liberty of Rome . 
If Albinus be criminal , exclaimed the orator , the senate and myself are all guilty of the same crime . 
If we are innocent , Albinus is equally entitled to the protection of the laws . 
At the command of the Barbarians , the occult science of a philosopher was stigmatized with the names of sacrilege and magic . 
Si ego scissem tu nescisses . 
and it was believed that many necromancers had escaped by making their jailers mad for mad I should read drunk . 
perhaps more interesting than his Consolation . 
We must be content with the general view of his honors , principles , persecution , c . 
charges him home with honorable and patriotic treason . 
She taught him to compare his long prosperity and his recent distress , and to conceive new hopes from the inconstancy of fortune . 
Such topics of consolation so obvious , so vague , or so abstruse , are ineffectual to subdue the feelings of human nature . 
Suspense , the worst of evils , was at length determined by the ministers of death , who executed , and perhaps exceeded , the inhuman mandate of Theodoric . 
In the last hours of Boethius , he derived some comfort from the safety of his two sons , of his wife , and of his father in law , the venerable Symmachus . 
But the grief of Symmachus was indiscreet , and perhaps disrespectful he had presumed to lament , he might dare to revenge , the death of an injured friend . 
He was dragged in chains from Rome to the palace of Ravenna and the suspicions of Theodoric could only be appeased by the blood of an innocent and aged senator . 
, by order of Eusebius , count of Ticinum or Pavia . 
This place of confinement is styled the baptistery , an edifice and name peculiar to cathedrals . 
It is claimed by the perpetual tradition of the church of Pavia . 
See the Biographia Britannica , Alfred , tom . 
The work is still more honorable if performed under the learned eye of Alfred by his foreign and domestic doctors . 
The inscription on his new tomb was composed by the preceptor of Otho III . 
, the learned Pope Silvester II . 
, who , like Boethius himself , was styled a magician by the ignorance of the times . 
This witticism referred to the miracle of St . 
agree in praising the superior innocence or sanctity of Symmachus and in the estimation of the legend , the guilt of his murder is equal to the imprisonment of a pope . 
Conscious of his approaching end , he divided his treasures and provinces between his two grandsons , and fixed the Rhone as their common boundary . 
Amalaric was restored to the throne of Spain . 
The monument of Theodoric was erected by his daughter Amalasuntha , in a conspicuous situation , which commanded the city of Ravenna , the harbor , and the adjacent coast . 
had been caught on the shores of the Adriatic . 
But he might have informed us , whether he had received this curious anecdote from common report or from the mouth of the royal physician . 
These epistles are the triumph of his ministerial eloquence . 
Alberti Descrittione d' Italia , p . 
Note The Mausoleum of Theodoric , now Sante Maria della Rotonda , is engraved in D'Agincourt , Histoire de l'Art , p xviii . 
and both the pope and cardinal are grave doctors , sufficient to establish a probable opinion . 
Chapter XL Reign Of Justinian . 
Part I. Elevation Of Justin The Elder . 
Factions Of The Circus , And Sedition Of Constantinople . 
Trade And Manufacture Of Silk . 
Fortifications And Frontiers Of The Eastern Empire . 
Abolition Of The Schools Of Athens , And The Consulship Of Rome . 
A liberal donative , to conciliate the suffrage of the guards , was intrusted for that purpose in the hands of their commander . 
his mother Bigleniza was softened into Vigilantia . 
attempts to justify the Anician name of Justinian and Theodora , and to connect them with a family from which the house of Austria has been derived . 
with the notes of N. Alemannus . 
The satirist would not have sunk , in the vague and decent appellation of Zonaras . 
Martin questions the fact in both cases . 
The ignorance of Justin rests on the secret history of Procopius , vol . 
Martin's notes on Le Beau . 
The quaestor Proclus was the friend of Justinian , and the enemy of every other adoption . 
Since the eunuch Amantius had been defrauded of his money , it became necessary to deprive him of his life . 
The ruin of Vitalian was a work of more difficulty and danger . 
The Catholics were attached to the nephew of Justin , who , between the Nestorian and Eutychian heresies , trod the narrow path of inflexible and intolerant orthodoxy . 
In the first days of the new reign , he prompted and gratified the popular enthusiasm against the memory of the deceased emperor . 
While he indulged the people of Constantinople , and received the addresses of foreign kings , the nephew of Justin assiduously cultivated the friendship of the senate . 
Not withstanding this reproach , the senate proceeded to decorate Justinian with the royal epithet of nobilissimus and their decree was ratified by the affection or the fears of his uncle . 
After some time the languor of mind and body , to which he was reduced by an incurable wound in his thigh , indispensably required the aid of a guardian . 
Hear the furious acclamations of Constantinople and Tyre , the former no more than six days after the decease of Anastasius . 
He was great grandson of Aspar , hereditary prince in the Lesser Scythia , and count of the Gothic foederati of Thrace . 
styles him a tyrant , but acknowledges something which is well explained by Alemannus . 
he had passed some time as a hostage with Theodoric . 
quotes a Ms. history of Justinian , by his preceptor Theophilus . 
Ludewig wishes to make him a soldier . 
The ecclesiastical history of Justinian will be shown hereafter . 
See Baronius , A. D. , and the copious article Justinianas in the index to the viith volume of his Annals . 
and Zonaras , who may pass for an original . 
Note Dindorf , in his preface to the new edition of Malala , p . 
, concurs with this opinion of Gibbon , which was also that of Reiske , as to the age of the chronicler . 
M. From his elevation to his death , Justinian governed the Roman empire thirty eight years , seven months , and thirteen days . 
According to the vicissitudes of courage or servitude , of favor or disgrace , Procopius successively composed the history , the panegyric , and the satire of his own times . 
The conscious dignity of independence was subdued by the hopes and fears of a slave and the secretary of Belisarius labored for pardon and reward in the six books of the Imperial edifices . 
From these various materials , I shall now proceed to describe the reign of Justinian , which will deserve and occupy an ample space . 
The present chapter will explain the elevation and character of Theodora , the factions of the circus , and the peaceful administration of the sovereign of the East . 
Their religion , an honorable problem , betrays occasional conformity , with a secret attachment to Paganism and Philosophy . 
The literary fate of Procopius has been somewhat unlucky . 
far distant from the Louvre press and the Vatican Ms. , from which , however , he obtained some supplements . 
His promised commentaries , c . 
Note Procopius forms a part of the new Byzantine collection under the superintendence of Dindorf . 
See likewise Photius , cod . 
Says , he , Praefat . 
de Edificiis is no more than a pun ! In these five books , Procopius affects a Christian as well as a courtly style . 
The silence of Evagrius is a poor objection . 
Justinian an ass the perfect likeness of Domitian Anecdot . 
gives credit to these anecdotes , as connected , . 
with the weakness of the empire , and , . 
with the instability of Justinian's laws . 
The Anecdota of Procopius , compared with the former works of the same author , appear to me the basest and most disgraceful work in literature . 
This honorable office was given after his death to another candidate , notwithstanding the diligence of his widow , who had already provided a husband and a successor . 
Acacius had left three daughters , Comito , Theodora , and Anastasia , the eldest of whom did not then exceed the age of seven years . 
The beauty of Theodora was the subject of more flattering praise , and the source of more exquisite delight . 
But this form was degraded by the facility with which it was exposed to the public eye , and prostituted to licentious desire . 
The satirical historian has not blushed to describe the naked scenes which Theodora was not ashamed to exhibit in the theatre . 
The vague commerce of Theodora , and the most detestable precautions , preserved her from the danger which she feared yet once , and once only , she became a mother . 
The infant was saved and educated in Arabia , by his father , who imparted to him on his death bed , that he was the son of an empress . 
Filled with ambitious hopes , the unsuspecting youth immediately hastened to the palace of Constantinople , and was admitted to the presence of his mother . 
As he was never more seen , even after the decease of Theodora , she deserves the foul imputation of extinguishing with his life a secret so offensive to her Imperial virtue . 
For the life and manners of the empress Theodora see the Anecdotes more especially c . 
, , , , , with the learned notes of Alemannus a reference which is always implied . 
Comito was afterwards married to Sittas , duke of Armenia , the father , perhaps , at least she might be the mother , of the empress Sophia . 
Her statute was raised at Constantinople , on a porphyry column . 
who gives her portrait in the Anecdotes , Aleman . 
produces one from a Mosaic at Ravenna , loaded with pearls and jewels , and yet handsome . 
somewhat too naked , was suppressed by Alemannus , though extant in the Vatican Ms. nor has the defect been supplied in the Paris or Venice editions . 
I have heard that a learned prelate , now deceased , was fond of quoting this passage in conversation . 
who imitated the capitalis luxus of the females of Nola . 
, and Torrentius ad Horat . 
At a memorable supper , thirty slaves waited round the table ten young men feasted with Theodora . 
Et lassata viris , necdum satiata , recessit . 
She wished for a fourth altar , on which she might pour libations to the god of love . 
Gibbon should have remembered the axiom which he quotes in another piece , scelera ostendi oportet dum puniantur abscondi flagitia . 
Her beauty , assisted by art or accident , soon attracted , captivated , and fixed , the patrician Justinian , who already reigned with absolute sway under the name of his uncle . 
When his first transports had subsided , she still maintained the same ascendant over his mind , by the more solid merit of temper and understanding . 
These obstacles were removed by the inflexible constancy of Justinian . 
was left open for the unhappy females who had prostituted their persons on the theatre , and they were permitted to contract a legal union with the most illustrious of the Romans . 
But the usual honors which the severity of Roman manners had allowed to the wives of princes , could not satisfy either the ambition of Theodora or the fondness of Justinian . 
The Eastern world fell prostrate before the genius and fortune of the daughter of Acacius . 
, in Banduri Imperium Orient . 
argues sensibly that Theodora would not have immortalized a brothel but I apply this fact to her second and chaster residence at Constantinople . 
very awkwardly repeals no more than the clause of mulieres scenicoe , libertinae , tabernariae . 
I swear by the Father , c . 
Would the oath have been binding in favor of the widow ? Communes tituli et triumphi , c . 
Let greatness own her , and she's mean no more , c . 
Without Warburton's critical telescope , I should never have seen , in this general picture of triumphant vice , any personal allusion to Theodora . 
Chapter XL Reign Of Justinian . 
But the reproach of cruelty , so repugnant even to her softer vices , has left an indelible stain on the memory of Theodora . 
Her numerous spies observed , and zealously reported , every action , or word , or look , injurious to their royal mistress . 
The senator or bishop , whose death or exile Theodora had pronounced , was delivered to a trusty messenger , and his diligence was quickened by a menace from her own mouth . 
If you fail in the execution of my commands , I swear by Him who liveth forever , that your skin shall be flayed from your body . 
Darkness is propitious to cruelty , but it is likewise favorable to calumny and fiction . 
A more jocular whipping was inflicted on Saturninus , for presuming to say that his wife , a favorite of the empress , had not been found . 
Per viventem in saecula excoriari te faciam . 
If the creed of Theodora had not been tainted with heresy , her exemplary devotion might have atoned , in the opinion of her contemporaries , for pride , avarice , and cruelty . 
The prudence of Theodora is celebrated by Justinian himself and his laws are attributed to the sage counsels of his most reverend wife whom he had received as the gift of the Deity . 
Her courage was displayed amidst the tumult of the people and the terrors of the court . 
The wishes and prayers of Theodora could never obtain the blessing of a lawful son , and she buried an infant daughter , the sole offspring of her marriage . 
Perhaps her health had been impaired by the licentiousness of her youth but it was always delicate , and she was directed by her physicians to use the Pythian warm baths . 
I give him credit for the charitable attempt , although he hath not much charity in his temper . 
observes , that on this , or a similar occasion , she released and clothed the girls whom she had purchased from the stews at five aurei apiece . 
See John Malala , tom . 
On such occasions , an orthodox mind is steeled against pity . 
understands of Theophanes as civil language , which does not imply either piety or repentance yet two years after her death , St . 
As she persecuted the popes , and rejected a council , Baronius exhausts the names of Eve , Dalila , Herodias , c . 
after which he has recourse to his infernal dictionary civis inferni alumna daemonum satanico agitata spiritu oestro percita diabolico , c . 
A material difference may be observed in the games of antiquity the most eminent of the Greeks were actors , the Romans were merely spectators . 
But a senator , or even a citizen , conscious of his dignity , would have blushed to expose his person , or his horses , in the circus of Rome . 
Another interpretation preferred the elements to the seasons , and the struggle of the green and blue was supposed to represent the conflict of the earth and sea . 
affords much curious and authentic information . 
who lavishes much wit and eloquence on this theatrical mystery . 
Of these colors , the three first may be fairly translated white , red , and green . 
See Onuphrius Panvinius de Ludis Circensibus , l . 
, the xviith Annotation on Mascou's History of the Germans and Aleman ad c . 
Constantinople adopted the follies , though not the virtues , of ancient Rome and the same factions which had agitated the circus , raged with redoubled fury in the hippodrome . 
Every law , either human or divine , was trampled under foot , and as long as the party was successful , its deluded followers appeared careless of private distress or public calamity . 
The license , without the freedom , of democracy , was revived at Antioch and Constantinople , and the support of a faction became necessary to every candidate for civil or ecclesiastical honors . 
In the day they concealed their two edged poniards , but in the night they boldly assembled in arms , and in numerous bands , prepared for every act of violence and rapine . 
At the accession of the younger Justin , the proclamation of equal and rigorous justice indirectly condemned the partiality of the former reign . 
Ye blues , Justinian is no more ! ye greens , he is still alive ! Marcellin . 
Instead of the vulgar word venata he uses the more exquisite terms of coerulea and coerealis . 
In describing the vices of the factions and of the government , the public , is not more favorable than the secret , historian . 
has quoted a fine passage from Gregory Nazianzen , which proves the inveteracy of the evil . 
who was seized and almost ravished by a blue coat , threw herself into the Bosphorus . 
deplore a similar suicide , the guilt or glory of female chastity , and name the heroine . 
is supported by the less partial Evagrius , who confirms the fact , and specifies the names . 
yet he owns that Justinian was attached to the blues . 
A sedition , which almost laid Constantinople in ashes , was excited by the mutual hatred and momentary reconciliation of the two factions . 
Their first complaints were respectful and modest they accused the subordinate ministers of oppression , and proclaimed their wishes for the long life and victory of the emperor . 
Be patient and attentive , ye insolent railers ! exclaimed Justinian be mute , ye Jews , Samaritans , and Manichaeans ! The greens still attempted to awaken his compassion . 
We are poor , we are innocent , we are injured , we dare not pass through the streets a general persecution is exercised against our name and color . 
Conon , issuing from the neighboring convent , conveyed them in a boat to the sanctuary of the church . 
The conflagration involved the cathedral of St . 
This dialogue , which Theophanes has preserved , exhibits the popular language , as well as the manners , of Constantinople , in the vith century . 
Their Greek is mingled with many strange and barbarous words , for which Ducange cannot always find a meaning or etymology . 
See this church and monastery in Ducange , C. P. Christiana , l . 
As long as the factions were divided , the triumphant blues , and desponding greens , appeared to behold with the same indifference the disorders of the state . 
Justinian was lost , if the prostitute whom he raised from the theatre had not renounced the timidity , as well as the virtues , of her sex . 
If flight , said the consort of Justinian , were the only means of safety , yet I should disdain to fly . 
Death is the condition of our birth but they who have reigned should never survive the loss of dignity and dominion . 
For my own part , I adhere to the maxim of antiquity , that the throne is a glorious sepulchre . 
The firmness of a woman restored the courage to deliberate and act , and courage soon discovers the resources of the most desperate situation . 
The fidelity of the guards was doubtful but the military force of Justinian consisted in three thousand veterans , who had been trained to valor and discipline in the Persian and Illyrian wars . 
Marcellinus says in general terms , innumeris populis in circotrucidatis . 
Procopius numbers , victims and the , of Theophanes are swelled to , by the more recent Zonaras . 
Such is the usual progress of exaggeration . 
That empire , after Rome was barbarous , still embraced the nations whom she had conquered beyond the Adriatic , and as far as the frontiers of Aethiopia and Persia . 
The annual powers of vegetation , instead of being exhausted by two thousand harvests , were renewed and invigorated by skilful husbandry , rich manure , and seasonable repose . 
The breed of domestic animals was infinitely multiplied . 
Plantations , buildings , and the instruments of labor and luxury , which are more durable than the term of human life , were accumulated by the care of successive generations . 
The invention of the loom and distaff has been piously ascribed to the gods . 
and the administration of Joseph . 
Note The recent extraordinary discoveries in Egyptian antiquities strongly confirm the high notion of the early Egyptian civilization , and imperatively demand a longer period for their development . 
It was not the chronology of the Samaritans , not that of the LXX . 
, not that of Josephus , not that of St . 
M. Eight millions of Roman modii , besides a contribution of , aurei for the expenses of water carriage , from which the subject was graciously excused . 
See the th Edict of Justinian the numbers are checked and verified by the agreement of the Greek and Latin texts . 
These veils , were the work of the Sidonian women . 
But this passage is more honorable to the manufactures than to the navigation of Phoenicia , from whence they had been imported to Troy in Phrygian bottoms . 
a poetical list of twelve colors borrowed from flowers , the elements , c . 
But it is almost impossible to discriminate by words all the nice and various shades both of art and nature . 
By the discovery of cochineal , c . 
, we far surpass the colors of antiquity . 
Their royal purple had a strong smell , and a dark cast as deep as bull's blood obscuritas rubens , nigredo saguinea . 
will amuse and satisfy the reader . 
I doubt whether his book , especially in England , is as well known as it deserves to be . 
Chapter XL Reign Of Justinian . 
Aurelian complained , that a pound of silk was sold at Rome for twelve ounces of gold but the supply increased with the demand , and the price diminished with the supply . 
the silk worm holds a conspicuous place . 
but our silk worm , as well as the white mulberry tree , were unknown to Theophrastus and Pliny . 
the first who describes , however strangely , the Seric insect . 
Tam longinquo orbe petitur , ut in publico matrona transluceat . 
Gibbon must have written transparent draperies and naked matrons . 
Through sometimes affected , he is never inaccurate . 
who was ignorant of the most common trades of Dijon or Leyden . 
state a partial and imperfect rate of the price of silk in the time of Justinian . 
These pinnes de mer are found near Smyrna , Sicily , Corsica , and Minorca and a pair of gloves of their silk was presented to Pope Benedict XIV . 
The ocean , however , was open to the free communication of mankind . 
M. The blind admiration of the Jesuits confounds the different periods of the Chinese history . 
who discovers the gradual progress of the truth of the annals and the extent of the monarchy , till the Christian aera . 
M. The roads from China to Persia and Hindostan may be investigated in the relations of Hackluyt and Thevenot , the ambassadors of Sharokh , Anthony Jenkinson , the Pere Greuber , c . 
See likewise Hanway's Travels , vol . 
A communication through Thibet has been lately explored by the English sovereigns of Bengal . 
The knowledge , or rather ignorance , of Strabo , Pliny , Ptolemy , Arrian , Marcian , c . 
Our geography of India is improved by commerce and conquest and has been illustrated by the excellent maps and memoirs of Major Rennel . 
If he extends the sphere of his inquiries with the same critical knowledge and sagacity , he will succeed , and may surpass , the first of modern geographers . 
and most of the ancients , who often confound the islands of Ceylon and Sumatra , is more clearly described by Cosmas Indicopleustes yet even the Christian topographer has exaggerated its dimensions . 
The gospel had been preached to the Indians a bishop already governed the Christians of St . 
Thomas on the pepper coast of Malabar a church was planted in Ceylon , and the missionaries pursued the footsteps of commerce to the extremities of Asia . 
had once been considered as the labor of queens . 
They soon discovered that it was impracticable to transport the short lived insect , but that in the eggs a numerous progeny might be preserved and multiplied in a distant climate . 
Mr. Salt obtained information of considerable ruins of an ancient town near Zulla , called Azoole , which answers to the position of Adulis . 
Mr. Salt was prevented by illness , Mr. Stuart , whom he sent , by the jealousy of the natives , from investigating these ruins of their existence there seems no doubt . 
Salt's d Journey , p . 
The province of Chekian is the most renowned both for quantity and quality . 
assigns to the year this memorable importation . 
darkly represents the two rival kingdoms in the country of silk . 
The subjects of Justinian were dissatisfied with the times , and with the government . 
The public distress had been alleviated by the economy of Anastasius , and that prudent emperor accumulated an immense treasure , while he delivered his people from the most odious or oppressive taxes . 
His example was neglected , and his treasure was abused , by the nephew of Justin . 
The riches of Justinian were speedily exhausted by alms and buildings , by ambitious wars , and ignominious treaties . 
His revenues were found inadequate to his expenses . 
The secret historian represents only the vices of Justinian , and those vices are darkened by his malevolent pencil . 
See the character of Anastasius in Joannes Lydus de Magistratibus , iii . 
His economy is there said to have degenerated into parsimony . 
in the Eastern cities , and intrusted it to an extortionate officer named Mannus . 
But he admits that the imperial revenue was enormously increased by this measure . 
A statue of iron had been erected to Anastasius in the Hippodrome , on which appeared one morning this pasquinade . 
This epigram is also found in the Anthology . 
But Lydus , with no uncommon inconsistency in such writers , proceeds to paint the character of Anastasius as endowed with almost every virtue , not excepting the utmost liberality . 
He was only prevented by death from relieving his subjects altogether from the capitation tax , which he greatly diminished . 
is minute and grateful , but angry with Zosimus for calumniating the great Constantine . 
a happy instance of the use of the theatre . 
This capitation tax is slightly mentioned in the Chronicle of Edessa . 
fixes this sum from the report of the treasurers themselves . 
Tiberias had vicies ter millies but far different was his empire from that of Anastasius . 
in the xiith century , had read with care , and thought without prejudice yet their colors are almost as black as those of the anecdotes . 
relates the idle conjectures of the times . 
The death of Justinian , says the secret historian , will expose his wealth or poverty . 
See Corippus de Laudibus Justini Aug . 
, , c Plurima sunt vivo nimium neglecta parenti , Unde tot exhaustus contraxit debita fiscus . 
Centenaries of gold were brought by strong men into the Hippodrome , Debita persolvit , genitoris cauta recepit . 
supply many facts and more complaints . 
was written during the reign of Justinian . 
Gibbon has before , c . 
He was first received into the office of the Praetorian praefect became a notary in that office , and made in one year golden solidi , and that without extortion . 
His place and the influence of his relatives obtained him a wife with pounds of gold for her dowry . 
He became chief chartularius , with an annual stipend of twenty four solidi , and considerable emoluments for all the various services which he performed . 
He rose to an Augustalis , and finally to the dignity of Corniculus , the highest , and at one time the most lucrative office in the department . 
But the Praetorian praefect had gradually been deprived of his powers and his honors . 
Even the soldiers were injured and such was the decay of military spirit , that they were injured with impunity . 
obtained for that desolate province by the intercession of St . 
These precautions might indicate a tender solicitude for the welfare of the capital yet Constantinople did not escape the rapacious despotism of Justinian . 
And a more direct sale of honors and offices was transacted in the palace , with the permission , or at least with the connivance , of Justinian and Theodora . 
But the splendid fortune of Eulalius had been consumed by fire , and the inventory of his goods did not exceed the trifling sum of five hundred and sixty four pieces of gold . 
A similar instance , in Grecian history , admonished the emperor of the honorable part prescribed for his imitation . 
One to Scythopolis , capital of the second Palestine , and twelve for the rest of the province . 
honestly produces this fact from a Ms. life of St . 
Sabas , by his disciple Cyril , in the Vatican Library , and since published by Cotelerius . 
the leaden pipes , which Justinian , or his servants , stole from the aqueducts . 
shows that the despotism of the government was aggravated by the unchecked rapenity of the officers . 
This state monopoly , even of corn , wine , and oil , was to force at the time of the first crusade . 
M. For an aureus , one sixth of an ounce of gold , instead of , he gave no more than folles , or ounces of copper . 
A disproportion of the mint , below the market price , must have soon produced a scarcity of small money . 
The defaulters imprecate on themselves , quicquid haben telorum armamentaria coeli the part of Judas , the leprosy of Gieza , the tremor of Cain , c . 
, besides all temporal pains . 
and the story has produced an ingenious , though feeble , comedy of Fontenelle . 
Chapter XL Reign Of Justinian . 
The corruption of his heart was equal to the vigor of his understanding . 
Even Theodora herself was constrained to dissemble , to wait a favorable moment , and , by an artful conspiracy , to render John of Coppadocia the accomplice of his own destruction . 
are almost an echo of the anecdote . 
is not very honorable to Justinian's memory . 
See the history and character of John of Cappadocia in Procopius . 
The agreement of the history and anecdotes is a mortal wound to the reputation of the praefct . 
Joannes Lydus is diffuse on this subject , lib . 
But the indignant virtue of Lydus seems greatly stimulated by the loss of his official fees , which he ascribes to the innovations of the minister . 
He attributes the sedition and conflagration to the popular resentment against the tyranny of John , lib . 
Unfortunately there is a large gap in his work just at this period . 
gives the list of his ten successors a rapid series in a part of a single reign . 
Note Lydus gives a high character of Phocas , his successor tom . 
The truth of these two extraordinary facts is invalidated by the silence of the most authentic historians and the use of burning glasses was never adopted in the attack or defence of places . 
A citizen of Tralles in Asia had five sons , who were all distinguished in their respective professions by merit and success . 
Olympius excelled in the knowledge and practice of the Roman jurisprudence . 
Dioscorus and Alexander became learned physicians but the skill of the former was exercised for the benefit of his fellow citizens , while his more ambitious brother acquired wealth and reputation at Rome . 
The genius of Anthemius , and his colleague Isidore the Milesian , was excited and employed by a prince , whose taste for architecture had degenerated into a mischievous and costly passion . 
and the scholiast of Lucian . 
to whom I am more or less indebted for several of these quotations . 
affirms the fact , without quoting any evidence . 
Tzetzes describes the artifice of these burning glasses , which he had read , perhaps , with no learned eyes , in a mathematical treatise of Anthemius . 
In the siege of Syracuse , by the silence of Polybius , Plutarch , Livy in the siege of Constantinople , by that of Marcellinus and all the contemporaries of the vith century . 
relates the fact but he seems to confound the names or persons of Proclus and Marinus . 
He relates a coincidence of dreams , which supposes some fraud in Justinian or his architect . 
They both saw , in a vision , the same plan for stopping an inundation at Dara . 
an angel was tricked into the perpetual custody of St . 
The principal church , which was dedicated by the founder of Constantinople to St . 
Sophia , or the eternal wisdom , had been twice destroyed by fire after the exile of John Chrysostom , and during the Nika of the blue and green factions . 
Anthemius formed the design , and his genius directed the hands of ten thousand workmen , whose payment in pieces of fine silver was never delayed beyond the evening . 
The emperor himself , clad in a linen tunic , surveyed each day their rapid progress , and encouraged their diligence by his familiarity , his zeal , and his rewards . 
The new Cathedral of St . 
But the architect who first erected and aerial cupola , is entitled to the praise of bold design and skilful execution . 
That portico was the humble station of the penitents . 
The whole frame of the edifice was constructed of brick but those base materials were concealed by a crust of marble and the inside of St . 
A poet , who beheld the primitive lustre of St . 
According to the sanctity of each object , the precious metals were distributed in thin leaves or in solid masses . 
A magnificent temple is a laudable monument of national taste and religion and the enthusiast who entered the dome of St . 
Sophia might be tempted to suppose that it was the residence , or even the workmanship , of the Deity . 
Sophia , I shall distinguish and follow , . 
he has given plans , prospects , and inside views of St . 
Sophia and his plans , though on a smaller scale , appear more correct than those of Ducange . 
Solomon's temple was surrounded with courts , porticos , c . 
but few sanctuaries could be valued at four or five millions sterling ! Note Hist of Jews , vol i p . 
M Paul Silentiarius , in dark and poetic language , describes the various stones and marbles that were employed in the edifice of St . 
The Carystian pale , with iron veins . 
The Phrygian of two sorts , both of a rosy hue the one with a white shade , the other purple , with silver flowers . 
The Porphyry of Egypt with small stars . 
The green marble of Laconia . 
The Carian from Mount Iassis , with oblique veins , white and red . 
The Lydian pale , with a red flower . 
The African , or Mauritanian of a gold or saffron hue . 
The Celtic black , with white veins . 
The Bosphoric white , with black edges . 
Besides the Proconnesian which formed the pavement the Thessalian , Molossian , c . 
, which are less distinctly painted . 
The church of the Holy Apostles at Constantinople , and that of St . 
John at Ephesus , appear to have been framed on the same model their domes aspired to imitate the cupolas of St . 
Sophia but the altar was more judiciously placed under the centre of the dome , at the junction of four stately porticos , which more accurately expressed the figure of the Greek cross . 
The Virgin of Jerusalem might exult in the temple erected by her Imperial votary on a most ungrateful spot , which afforded neither ground nor materials to the architect . 
A level was formed by raising part of a deep valley to the height of the mountain . 
While Justinian labored for the public service , he was not unmindful of his own dignity and ease . 
Italy is forgot by the emperor or the historian , who published this work of adulation before the date of its final conquest . 
For the Heraeum , the palace of Theodora , see Gyllius , Aleman . 
the different styles of adulation and malevolence stripped of the paint , or cleansed from the dirt , the object appears to be the same . 
most probably a stranger and wanderer , as the Mediterranean does not breed whales . 
The fortifications of Europe and Asia were multiplied by Justinian but the repetition of those timid and fruitless precautions exposes , to a philosophic eye , the debility of the empire . 
Yet these military works , which exhausted the public treasure , could not remove the just apprehensions of Justinian and his European subjects . 
The Straits of Thermopylae , which seemed to protect , but which had so often betrayed , the safety of Greece , were diligently strengthened by the labors of Justinian . 
The long wall , as it was emphatically styled , was a work as disgraceful in the object , as it was respectable in the execution . 
that Justinian's empire was like France in the time of the Norman inroads never so weak as when every village was fortified . 
that the Danube was stopped by the ruins of the bridge . 
Of the two Dacias , Mediterranea and Ripensis , Dardania , Pravalitana , the second Maesia , and the second Macedonia . 
who speaks of his castles beyond the Danube , and on omines semper bellicis sudoribus inhaerentes . 
The sanjak of Giustendil is one of the twenty under the beglerbeg of Rurselis , and his district maintains zaims and timariots . 
Asia Minor , after the submission of the Isaurians , remained without enemies and without fortifications . 
Those bold savages , who had disdained to be the subjects of Gallienus , persisted two hundred and thirty years in a life of independence and rapine . 
But no sooner was the vigilance of power relaxed or diverted , than the light armed squadrons descended from the hills , and invaded the peaceful plenty of Asia . 
Although the Isaurians were not remarkable for stature or bravery , want rendered them bold , and experience made them skilful in the exercise of predatory war . 
Their disorderly numbers were vanquished in the plains of Phrygia by the valor and discipline of the Goths but a war of six years almost exhausted the courage of the emperor . 
Yet some generations elapsed before their minds were reduced to the level of slavery . 
In the course of this History , I have sometimes mentioned , and much oftener slighted , the hasty inroads of the Isaurians , which were not attended with any consequences . 
, who lived under Diocletian , or Constantine . 
See likewise Pancirolus ad Notit . 
, with a copious collective Annotation of Godefroy , tom . 
The punishments are severs a fine of a hundred pounds of gold , degradation , and even death . 
The public peace might afford a pretence , but Zeno was desirous of monopolizing the valor and service of the Isaurians . 
Evagrius , Theophanes , p . 
, ) and the Chronicle of Marcellinus . 
marks an essential difference between their military character yet in former times the Lycaonians and Pisidians had defended their liberty against the great king , Xenophon . 
Chapter XL Reign Of Justinian . 
From that maritime city , frontier line of five hundred miles may be drawn to the fortress of Circesium , the last Roman station on the Euphrates . 
and gradually approaches the Mediterranean Sea till at length , repelled by Mount Taurus , the Euphrates inclines its long and flexible course to the south east and the Gulf of Persia . 
Their strength was proportioned by Justinian to the danger of their situation . 
Westward of the Euphrates , a sandy desert extends above six hundred miles to the Red Sea . 
These unambitious Goths had refused to follow the standard of Theodoric . 
but seem to have vanished in the more recent account of the Missions du Levant , Tott , Peysonnnel , c . 
personifies the river and mountain , and describes their combat . 
See the course of the Tigris and Euphrates in the excellent treatise of D'Anville . 
tells the story with the tone , half sceptical , half superstitious , of Herodotus . 
But the national enmity , at least the effects of that enmity , had been suspended by a truce , which continued above fourscore years . 
The Persians were twice circumvented , in a situation which made valor useless and flight impossible and the double victory of the Huns was achieved by military stratagem . 
! ! The indignant successor of Cyrus forgot his danger and his gratitude he renewed the attack with headstrong fury , and lost both his army and his life . 
After the siege of Amida , the war continued three years , and the unhappy frontier tasted the full measure of its calamities . 
The city was surrounded with two walls , and the interval between them , of fifty paces , afforded a retreat to the cattle of the besieged . 
The exterior wall appears to have been less lofty , but more solid and each tower was protected by a quadrangular bulwark . 
Firouz the Conqueror unfortunately so named . 
The production , mines , c . 
In this war the Huns got , or at least Perozes lost , the finest pearl in the world , of which Procopius relates a ridiculous fable . 
In the second century they were masters of Larice or Guzerat . 
According to the Persian historians , he was misled by guides who used he old stratagem of Zopyrus . 
M. ! ! In the Ms. Chronicle of Tabary , it is said that the Moubedan Mobed , or Grand Pontiff , opposed with all his influence the violation of the treaty . 
The chronology is ably ascertained by Asseman . 
presented on the point of a lance the treaty to which he had sworn , and exhorted him yet to desist before he destroyed his fame forever . 
Gibbon should have written some prostitutes . 
though he seems to double the interval between Dara and Nisibis . 
does not appear to give it strength , as it must have been commanded on three sides by the mountains , but opening on the south towards the plains of Mesopotamia . 
or church , one hundred paces in length , and sixty in breadth . 
The foundations , which are quite entire , consist of a prodigious number of subterraneous vaulted chambers , entered by a narrow passage forty paces in length . 
The gate is still standing a considerable part of the wall has bid defiance to time , c . 
M Donald Kinneir's Journey , p . 
For the city and pass of Derbend , see D'Herbelot , Petit de la Croix . 
his view may be compared with the plan of Olearius , who judges the wall to be of shells and gravel hardened by time . 
The central , which leads from Mosdok to Teflis . 
The Albanian , more inland than the Derbend Pass . 
The Derbend the Caspian Gates . 
But the narrative of Col . 
Monteith , in the Journal of the Geographical Society of London . 
, clearly shows that there are but two passes between the Black Sea and the Caspian the central , the Caucasian , or , as Col . 
by a road a few miles distant through the mountains , p . 
See a learned dissertation of Baier , de muro Caucaseo , in Comment . 
but it is destitute of a map or plan . 
Justinian suppressed the schools of Athens and the consulship of Rome , which had given so many sages and heroes to mankind . 
The ingenuous youth of Attica enjoyed the benefits of their domestic education , which was communicated without envy to the rival cities . 
The studies of philosophy and eloquence are congenial to a popular state , which encourages the freedom of inquiry , and submits only to the force of persuasion . 
In the republics of Greece and Rome , the art of speaking was the powerful engine of patriotism or ambition and the schools of rhetoric poured forth a colony of statesmen and legislators . 
The light of science could not indeed be confined within the walls of Athens . 
Athens , though situate in a barren soil , possessed a pure air , a free navigation , and the monuments of ancient art . 
But some property of lands and houses was settled by the permission of the laws , and the legacies of deceased friends , on the philosophic chairs of Athens . 
The schools of Athens were protected by the wisest and most virtuous of the Roman princes . 
The library , which Hadrian founded , was placed in a portico adorned with pictures , statues , and a roof of alabaster , and supported by one hundred columns of Phrygian marble . 
The life of Isocrates extends from Olymp . 
See the Testament of Epicurus in Diogen . 
prefers the free contributions of the students to a fixed stipend for the professor . 
The birth of Epicurus is fixed to the year before Christ , Olympiad cix . 
and he opened his school at Athens , Olmp . 
, years before the same aera . 
Theophrastus chief of the Peripatetics , and disciple of Aristotle , was involved in the same exile . 
His sagacious mind explored the deepest questions of morals and metaphysics , and he ventured to urge eighteen arguments against the Christian doctrine of the creation of the world . 
From this journey , however , they derived a benefit which reflects the purest lustre on the character of Chosroes . 
The writings of Simplicius are now extant . 
This is no fanciful aera the Pagans reckoned their calamities from the reign of their hero . 
About the same time that Pythagoras first invented the appellation of philosopher , liberty and the consulship were founded at Rome by the elder Brutus . 
But the tradition of ancient dignity was long revered by the Romans and Barbarians . 
The predecessors of Justinian had assisted from the public treasures the dignity of the less opulent candidates the avarice of that prince preferred the cheaper and more convenient method of advice and regulation . 
Quod summum bonum primumque in mundo decus dicitur . 
dated at Constantinople , July , and addressed to Strategius , treasurer of the empire . 
In the xviiith year after the consulship of Basilius , according to the reckoning of Marcellinus , Victor , Marius , c . 
, the secret history was composed , and , in the eyes of Procopius , the consulship was finally abolished . 
Even the title was vilified consulatus codicilli . 
vilescunt , says the emperor himself . 
According to Julius Africanus , c . 
, the world was created the first of September , years , three months , and twenty five days before the birth of Christ . 
I regret this chronology , so far preferable to our double and perplexed method of counting backwards and forwards the years before and after the Christian era . 
See l'Art de Veriner les Dates , Dissert . 
the works of a laborious society of Benedictine monks . 
Chapter XLI Conquests Of Justinian , Charact Of Balisarius . 
Part I. Conquests Of Justinian In The West . 
Character And First Campaigns Of Belisarius He Invades And Subdues The Vandal Kingdom Of Africa His Triumph . 
He Recovers Sicily , Naples , And Rome . 
Siege Of Rome By The Goths . 
His Domestic Shame And Misfortunes . 
Experience and Christianity had refuted the superstitious hope , that Rome was founded by the gods to reign forever over the nations of the earth . 
The execution of this splendid design was in some degree reserved for Justinian . 
and happy would be my lot , could I always tread in the footsteps of such a guide . 
According to the testament of the founder , the African kingdom had lineally descended to Hilderic , the eldest of the Vandal princes . 
But the Catholics accepted , with cold and transient gratitude , a favor so inadequate to their pretensions , and the virtues of Hilderic offended the prejudices of his countrymen . 
The Arian clergy presumed to insinuate that he had renounced the faith , and the soldiers more loudly complained that he had degenerated from the courage , of his ancestors . 
His best evidence is drawn from the life of St . 
they appear to have been more successful in imitating than in translating the Greek poets . 
But the name of Achilles might be famous and popular even among the illiterate Barbarians . 
The troops , which , after five laborious campaigns , had been recalled from the Persian frontier , dreaded the sea , the climate , and the arms of an unknown enemy . 
John of Cappadocia ventured to oppose in full council the inclinations of his master . 
He confessed , that a victory of such importance could not be too dearly purchased but he represented in a grave discourse the certain difficulties and the uncertain event . 
If Africa should be reduced , it cannot be preserved without the additional conquest of Sicily and Italy . 
Success will impose the obligations of new labors a single misfortune will attract the Barbarians into the heart of your exhausted empire . 
I have seen a vision , cried an artful or fanatic bishop of the East . 
It is the will of Heaven , O emperor ! that you should not abandon your holy enterprise for the deliverance of the African church . 
The God of battles will march before your standard , and disperse your enemies , who are the enemies of his Son . 
Pudentius , an African subject , had privately signified his loyal intentions , and a small military aid restored the province of Tripoli to the obedience of the Romans . 
A year absurd exaggeration ! The conquest of Africa may be dated A. D , September . 
It is celebrated by Justinian in the preface to his Institutes , which were published November of the same year . 
Including the voyage and return , such a computation might be truly applied to our Indian empire . 
In the next campaign , Syria was invaded on the side of the desert and Belisarius , with twenty thousand men , hastened from Dara to the relief of the province . 
The Persian commander retired with disorder and disgrace , to answer a strict account of the lives of so many soldiers , which he had consumed in a barren victory . 
The birth of Antonina was ignoble she descended from a family of charioteers and her chastity has been stained with the foulest reproach . 
The battle was fought on Easter Sunday , April , not at the end of the summer . 
The date is supplied from John Malala by Lord Mabon p . 
M. See the birth and character of Antonina , in the Anecdotes , c . 
and the notes of Alemannus , p . 
The preparations for the African war were not unworthy of the last contest between Rome and Carthage . 
On their right side hangs a quiver , a sword on their left , and their hand is accustomed to wield a lance or javelin in closer combat . 
Five hundred transports , navigated by twenty thousand mariners of Egypt , Cilicia , and Ionia , were collected in the harbor of Constantinople . 
The separation of the naval and military professions is at once the effect and the cause of the modern improvements in the science of navigation and maritime war . 
See the preface of Procopius . 
The enemies of archery might quote the reproaches of Diomede Iliad . 
How concise how just how beautiful is the whole picture ! I see the attitudes of the archer I hear the twanging of the bow . 
The first halt was made at Perinthus or Heraclea , where Belisarius waited five days to receive some Thracian horses , a military gift of his sovereign . 
Two of the Huns , who in a drunken quarrel had slain one of their fellow soldiers , were instantly shown to the army suspended on a lofty gibbet . 
Their complaints were specious , their clamors were loud , and the Romans were not averse to the example of disorder and impunity . 
In this place they experienced how avarice , invested with authority , may sport with the lives of thousands which are bravely exposed for the public service . 
According to military practice , the bread or biscuit of the Romans was twice prepared in the oven , and the diminution of one fourth was cheerfully allowed for the loss of weight . 
Such unwholesome food , assisted by the heat of the climate and season , soon produced an epidemical disease , which swept away five hundred soldiers . 
of one hundred leagues over the Ionian Sea . 
At length the harbor of Caucana , on the southern side of Sicily , afforded a secure and hospitable shelter . 
His intelligence determined Belisarius to hasten his operations , and his wise impatience was seconded by the winds . 
suggests some valid reasons for reading Catana , the ancient name of Catania . 
Tibi tollit hinnitum apta quadrigis equa , in the Sicilian pastures of Grosphus , Acragas . 
Thero's horses , whose victories are immortalized by Pindar , were bred in this country . 
If Gelimer had been informed of the approach of the enemy , he must have delayed the conquest of Sardinia for the immediate defence of his person and kingdom . 
These exhortations were enforced by a rigid discipline , of which the soldiers themselves soon felt and praised the salutary effects . 
In three generations , prosperity and a warm climate had dissolved the hardy virtue of the Vandals , who insensibly became the most luxurious of mankind . 
Rather into the present Lake of Tunis . 
M. Sullecte is perhaps the Turris Hannibalis , an old building , now as large as the Tower of London . 
The march of Belisarius to Leptis . 
The near approach of the Romans to Carthage filled the mind of Gelimer with anxiety and terror . 
Yet the authority and promises of Gelimer collected a formidable army , and his plans were concerted with some degree of military skill . 
But the rashness of Ammatas was fatal to himself and his country . 
The tyrant's revenge was useful only to his enemies . 
Gibbon has been misled by the translation . 
M. Chapter XLI Conquests Of Justinian , Charact Of Balisarius . 
The defeat of the Vandals , and the freedom of Africa , were announced to the city on the eve of St . 
Cyprian , when the churches were already adorned and illuminated for the festival of the martyr whom three centuries of superstition had almost raised to a local deity . 
One awful hour reversed the fortunes of the contending parties . 
At supper he entertained his principal officers with the form and magnificence of a royal banquet . 
The fortifications of Carthage had alone been exempted from the general proscription but in the reign of ninety five years they were suffered to decay by the thoughtless and indolent Vandals . 
A wiser conqueror restored , with incredible despatch , the walls and ditches of the city . 
The neighborhood of Carthage , the sea , the land , and the rivers , are changed almost as much as the works of man . 
Procopius states in his work De Edi Sciis . 
Alas ! my brother , replied Gelimer , Heaven has declared against our unhappy nation . 
While you have subdued Sardinia , we have lost Africa . 
No sooner did Belisarius appear with a handful of soldiers , than courage and prosperity deserted the cause of the Vandals . 
Your nephew Gibamund , your brother Ammatas , have been betrayed to death by the cowardice of their followers . 
Our horses , our ships , Carthage itself , and all Africa , are in the power of the enemy . 
Yet the Vandals still prefer an ignominious repose , at the expense of their wives and children , their wealth and liberty . 
Nothing now remains , except the fields of Bulla , and the hope of your valor . 
Abandon Sardinia fly to our relief restore our empire , or perish by our side . 
On the receipt of this epistle , Zano imparted his grief to the principal Vandals but the intelligence was prudently concealed from the natives of the island . 
But these powers were under the command of Belisarius and , as he was conscious of their superior merit , he permitted the Barbarians to surprise him at an unseasonable hour . 
Gelimer retreated to his camp the Huns joined the pursuit and the victors despoiled the bodies of the slain . 
The Romans entered the camp without resistance and the wildest scenes of disorder were veiled in the darkness and confusion of the night . 
In this frantic search , the troops , even of Belisarius , forgot their caution and respect . 
From thence he despatched his principal lieutenant , to inform the emperor , that in the space of three months he had achieved the conquest of Africa . 
Gibbon had forgotten that the bearer of the victorious letters of his brother had sailed into the port of Carthage and that the letters had fallen into the hands of the Romans . 
M. These orations always express the sense of the times , and sometimes of the actors . 
I have condensed that sense , and thrown away declamation . 
and it was believed , in the viiith century , that Liutprand , king of the Lombards , transported them from Sardinia to Pavia . 
In the year , the Augustan friars of that city found a brick arch , marble coffin , silver case , silk wrapper , bones , blood , c . 
, and perhaps an inscription of Agostino in Gothic letters . 
Belisarius spoke the language of truth . 
Impatient to abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny of the Vandals , he proceeded , without delay , to the full establishment of the Catholic church . 
The kingdom of the Vandals was not unworthy of the presence of a Praetorian praefect and four consulars , three presidents , were appointed to administer the seven provinces under his civil jurisdiction . 
The emperor applauds his own clemency to the heretics , cum sufficiat eis vivere . 
observes and bewails this episcopal decay . 
In the more prosperous age of the church , he had noticed bishoprics but however minute were the dioceses , it is not probable that they all existed at the same time . 
Yet the conquest of Africa was imperfect till her former sovereign was delivered , either alive or dead , into the hands of the Romans . 
The knowledge of his situation dictated the humane and friendly epistle of Pharas . 
Like yourself , said the chief of the Heruli , I am an illiterate Barbarian , but I speak the language of plain sense and an honest heart . 
So long as Heaven has condemned us to suffer , patience is a virtue but if we reject the proffered deliverance , it degenerates into blind and stupid despair . 
I am not insensible replied the king of the Vandals , how kind and rational is your advice . 
But I cannot persuade myself to become the slave of an unjust enemy , who has deserved my implacable hatred . 
Justinian is a man he is a prince does he not dread for himself a similar reverse of fortune ? I can write no more my grief oppresses me . 
Send me , I beseech you , my dear Pharas , send me , a lyre , a sponge , and a loaf of bread . 
From the Vandal messenger , Pharas was informed of the motives of this singular request . 
The first public interview was in one of the suburbs of Carthage and when the royal captive accosted his conqueror , he burst into a fit of laughter . 
near Hippo Regius and the sea yet this situation ill agrees with the long pursuit beyond Hippo , and the words of Procopius , . 
Note Compare Lord Mahon , . 
By Procopius it is styled a lyre perhaps harp would have been more national . 
The instruments of music are thus distinguished by Venantius Fortunatus Romanusque lyra tibi plaudat , Barbarus harpa . 
Their contempt was soon justified by a new example of a vulgar truth that flattery adheres to power , and envy to superior merit . 
The chiefs of the Roman army presumed to think themselves the rivals of a hero . 
Their private despatches maliciously affirmed , that the conqueror of Africa , strong in his reputation and the public love , conspired to seat himself on the throne of the Vandals . 
Justinian listened with too patient an ear and his silence was the result of jealousy rather than of confidence . 
A long train of the noblest Vandals reluctantly exposed their lofty stature and manly countenance . 
Gelimer slowly advanced he was clad in a purple robe , and still maintained the majesty of a king . 
a triumph might be given with less inconsistency to a private general . 
and indeed the Ecclesiastes and Proverbs display a larger compass of thought and experience than seem to belong either to a Jew or a king . 
M. Chapter XLI Conquests Of Justinian , Charact Of Balisarius . 
Although Theodatus descended from a race of heroes , he was ignorant of the art , and averse to the dangers , of war . 
Although he had studied the writings of Plato and Tully , philosophy was incapable of purifying his mind from the basest passions , avarice and fear . 
Are you of opinion that the emperor will ratify this treaty ? Perhaps . 
If he refuses , what consequence will ensue ? War . 
Will such a war , be just or reasonable ? Most assuredly every to his character . 
Both treaties were intrusted to the hands of the ambassador , on the frail security of an oath not to produce the second till the first had been positively rejected . 
The event may be easily foreseen Justinian required and accepted the abdication of the Gothic king . 
But in the interval of suspense , two Roman generals , who had entered the province of Dalmatia , were defeated and slain by the Gothic troops . 
The ancient Alba was ruined in the first age of Rome . 
On the same spot , or at least in the neighborhood , successively arose . 
The villa of Pompey , c . 
A camp of the Praetorian cohorts . 
The modern episcopal city of Albanum or Albano . 
which has been published in unknown characters by Opsopaeus , an editor of the oracles . 
The Pere Maltret has promised a commentary but all his promises have been vain and fruitless . 
Yet , in some passages , we are at a loss to reconcile the dates of Procopius with himself , and with the Chronicle of Marcellinus . 
till the captivity of Vitigas . 
I have gleaned some few additional facts . 
After Belisarius had left sufficient garrisons in Palermo and Syracuse , he embarked his troops at Messina , and landed them , without resistance , on the opposite shores of Rhegium . 
The perfidious Ebermor deserted with his followers to the Roman camp , and was dismissed to enjoy the servile honors of the Byzantine court . 
From Rhegium to Naples , the fleet and army of Belisarius , almost always in view of each other , advanced near three hundred miles along the sea coast . 
When the work had been silently executed , the humane general risked the discovery of his secret by a last and fruitless admonition of the impending danger . 
The gold and silver , he repeatedly exclaimed , are the just rewards of your valor . 
But spare the inhabitants they are Christians , they are suppliants , they are now your fellow subjects . 
Restore the children to their parents , the wives to their husbands and show them by you , generosity of what friends they have obstinately deprived themselves . 
The city was saved by the virtue and authority of its conqueror and when the Neapolitans returned to their houses , they found some consolation in the secret enjoyment of their hidden treasures . 
Jornandes , de Rebus Geticis , c . 
Muratori , de Success , Regn . 
Neapolim quasi Graecam urbem delegit . 
One hundred and fifty years afterwards , in the time of Septimius Severus , the Hellenism of the Neapolitans is praised by Philostratus . 
Statius undertakes the difficult task of drawing his wife from the pleasures of Rome to that calm retreat . 
This measure was taken by Roger l . 
in a given space , than any other spot in the known world . 
The do not take an English mile . 
Belisarius was reproved by Pope Silverius for the massacre . 
quarrelled with lady for the head . 
The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had expected their deliverance from a prince , who remained the inactive and almost indifferent spectator of their ruin . 
The most abject slaves have arraigned the guilt or weakness of an unfortunate master . 
On the first rumor , the abdicated monarch fled from the justice of his country but he was pursued by private revenge . 
at the foot of the altar . 
But a momentary enthusiasm of religion and patriotism was kindled in their minds . 
The Decennovium is strangely confounded by Cluverius with the River Ufens . 
It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles , from Forum Appii to Terracina , on which Horace embarked in the night . 
Of the first , almost all were found dead almost all the second were alive of the third , half died , and the rest lost their bristles . 
is certain , from the series of events , rather than from the corrupt , or interpolated , text of Procopius . 
Peter , and his rigid discipline secured in the midst of war the blessings of tranquillity and justice . 
The designs of Vitiges were executed , during the winter season , with diligence and effect . 
The narrow passage was fortified with a tower , and Belisarius had computed the value of the twenty days which must be lost in the construction of another bridge . 
But the consternation of the soldiers of the tower , who either fled or deserted , disappointed his hopes , and betrayed his person into the most imminent danger . 
The fate of Italy depended on his life and the deserters pointed to the conspicuous horse a bay , with a white face , which he rode on that memorable day . 
Aim at the bay horse , was the universal cry . 
Every bow was bent , every javelin was directed , against that fatal object , and the command was repeated and obeyed by thousands who were ignorant of its real motive . 
, of Pyrrhus , and of Alexander . 
A horse of a bay or red color was styled by the Greeks , balan by the Barbarians , and spadix by the Romans . 
Adversity swept away these extraneous ornaments , and left naked and desolate a considerable part even of the seven hills . 
The prudence of Belisarius did not neglect this important resource . 
a plan of Rome on a smaller scale , but far more accurate than that which he had delineated in for Rollin's history . 
Experience had improved his knowledge and instead of Rossi's topography , he used the new and excellent map of Nolli . 
Pliny's old measure of thirteen must be reduced to eight miles . 
It is easier to alter a text , than to remove hills or buildings . 
Note Compare Gibbon , ch . 
yet it is equally clear that the historian avers that they are all the same . 
The present extent , nearly agrees with the second statement of Gibbon . 
J. Hobhouse also observes that the walls were enlarged by Constantine but there can be no doubt that the circuit has been much changed . 
reckoned , Christian souls , besides or , Jews without souls ? In the year , the numbers exceeded , . 
could distinguish the tumultuarie opere di Belisario . 
Peter and the threshold of the holy apostles was respected during the siege by a Christian enemy . 
Domestic war now rendered the admonition superfluous , and the ceremony was superseded by the establishment of a new religion . 
I have seen an ingenious model , contrived and executed by General Melville , which imitates or surpasses the art of antiquity . 
The description of this mausoleum , or mole , in Procopius , is the first and best . 
The height above the walls . 
On Nolli's great plan , the sides measure English feet . 
Gibbon has mistaken the breadth for the height above the walls Hobhouse , Illust . 
of Childe Harold , p . 
M. Praxiteles excelled in Fauns , and that of Athens was his own masterpiece . 
Rome now contains about thirty of the same character . 
When the ditch of St . 
Angelo was cleansed under Urban VIII . 
Virgil has described the ancient rite like a poet and an antiquarian . 
Eighteen days were employed by the besiegers , to provide all the instruments of attack which antiquity had invented . 
Fascines were prepared to fill the ditches , scaling ladders to ascend the walls . 
The lofty wooden turrets moved on wheels or rollers , and formed a spacious platform of the level of the rampart . 
As soon as the enemy approached the ditch , Belisarius himself drew the first arrow and such was his strength and dexterity , that he transfixed the foremost of the Barbarian leaders . 
As shout of applause and victory was reechoed along the wall . 
He drew a second arrow , and the stroke was followed with the same success and the same acclamation . 
This perilous day was the most glorious in the life of Belisarius . 
Thirty thousand Goths , according to the confession of their own chiefs , perished in this bloody action and the multitude of the wounded was equal to that of the slain . 
Belisarius instantly sallied from the gates and while the soldiers chanted his name and victory , the hostile engines of war were reduced to ashes . 
These partial advantages diffused an impatient ardor among the soldiers and people , who began to feel the hardships of a siege , and to disregard the dangers of a general engagement . 
On the other side of the Tyber , Belisarius advanced from the Pincian and Salarian gates . 
But his army , four thousand soldiers perhaps , was lost in a spacious plain they were encompassed and oppressed by fresh multitudes , who continually relieved the broken ranks of the Barbarians . 
was covered by the prudence of the general , and the victors started back with affright from the formidable aspect of an armed rampart . 
The reputation of Belisarius was unsullied by a defeat and the vain confidence of the Goths was not less serviceable to his designs than the repentance and modesty of the Roman troops . 
and Nolli's great plan of Rome . 
Chapter XLI Conquests Of Justinian , Charact Of Balisarius . 
Part V. From the moment that Belisarius had determined to sustain a siege , his assiduous care provided Rome against the danger of famine , more dreadful than the Gothic arms . 
A large portion of Rome , from the Praenestine gate to the church of St . 
His foresight was justified by the increase of the public distress , as soon as the Goths had occupied two important posts in the neighborhood of Rome . 
Belisarius saw and pitied their sufferings but he had foreseen , and he watched the decay of their loyalty , and the progress of their discontent . 
A letter was intercepted , which assured the king of the Goths that the Asinarian gate , adjoining to the Lateran church , should be secretly opened to his troops . 
The ecclesiastics , who followed their bishop , were detained in the first or second apartment , and he alone was admitted to the presence of Belisarius . 
Accused by credible witnesses , and the evidence of his own subscription , the successor of St . 
Peter was despoiled of his pontifical ornaments , clad in the mean habit of a monk , and embarked , without delay , for a distant exile in the East . 
of arches twenty five feet high . 
They made sausages of mule's flesh unwholesome , if the animals had died of the plague . 
The name of the palace , the hill , and the adjoining gate , were all derived from the senator Pincius . 
De Beau , as a good Catholic , makes the Pope the victim of a dark intrigue . 
with whom I concur , summed up against him . 
is a dry and reluctant witness . 
are characteristic , but passionate . 
portentum , facinus omni execratione dignum . 
The epistle of Belisarius to the emperor announced his victory , his danger , and his resolution . 
Hitherto we have successfully fought against the multitudes of the Barbarians , but their multitudes may finally prevail . 
Victory is the gift of Providence , but the reputation of kings and generals depends on the success or the failure of their designs . 
Permit me to speak with freedom if you wish that we should live , send us subsistence if you desire that we should conquer , send us arms , horses , and men . 
For myself , my life is consecrated to your service it is yours to reflect , whether my death in this situation will contribute to the glory and prosperity of your reign . 
to support and rescue his victorious general . 
These seasonable aids , the use and reputation of which were dexterously managed by the Roman general , revived the courage , or at least the hopes , of the soldiers and people . 
A fleet of three thousand Isaurians cast anchor in the Bay of Naples and afterwards at Ostia . 
The forces that arrived by land and sea were united at the mouth of the Tyber . 
After a specious discourse to vindicate the justice of his cause , they declared , that , for the sake of peace , they were disposed to renounce the possession of Sicily . 
Prudence might not safely trust either the oaths or hostages of the Barbarians , and the conscious superiority of the Roman chief was expressed in the distribution of his troops . 
In the province , said Belisarius , the Goths have deposited their families and treasures , without a guard or the suspicion of danger . 
Doubtless they will violate the truce let them feel your presence , before they hear of your motions . 
Spare the Italians suffer not any fortified places to remain hostile in your rear and faithfully reserve the spoil for an equal and common partition . 
The old Capena was removed by Aurelian to , or near , the modern gate of St . 
That memorable spot has been consecrated by the Egerian grove , the memory of Numa two umphal arches , the sepulchres of the Scipios , Metelli , c . 
The expression of Procopius has an invidious cast , Yet he is speaking of a woman . 
has preserved this epithet of Sanguinarius which might do honor to a tiger . 
The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been assembled for the attack , and was almost entirely consumed in the siege of Rome . 
If any credit be due to an intelligent spectator , one third at least of their enormous host was destroyed , in frequent and bloody combats under the walls of the city . 
While Vitiges struggled with his fortune , while he hesitated between shame and ruin , his retreat was hastened by domestic alarms . 
Yet , before he retired , Vitiges made a last effort , either to storm or to surprise the city . 
One year and nine days after the commencement of the siege , an army , so lately strong and triumphant , burnt their tents , and tumultuously repassed the Milvian bridge . 
At the head of his principal army , he besieged Rimini , only thirty three miles distant from the Gothic capital . 
A fleet , which had surprised Ancona , sailed along the coast of the Hadriatic , to the relief of the besieged city . 
The eunuch Narses landed in Picenum with two thousand Heruli and five thousand of the bravest troops of the East . 
To these walls , and to some fortresses destitute of any mutual support , the Gothic monarchy was now reduced . 
Before the end of the siege , an act of blood , ambiguous and indiscreet , sullied the fair fame of Belisarius . 
To his prudent counsels , the relief of Rimini was ascribed by the leaders of the discontented faction , who exhorted Narses to assume an independent and separate command . 
casts a shade of premeditated assassination over the death of Constantine . 
but Alemannus confounds him with a Constantianus comes stabuli . 
They refused to serve after his departure sold their captives and cattle to the Goths and swore never to fight against them . 
Procopius introduces a curious digression on the manners and adventures of this wandering nation , a part of whom finally emigrated to Thule or Scandinavia . 
After an obstinate siege , the capital of Liguria was reduced by famine but no capitulation could be obtained , except for the safe retreat of the Roman garrison . 
Encouraged by this successful inroad , Theodebert himself , in the ensuing spring , invaded the plains of Italy with an army of one hundred thousand Barbarians . 
The memory of this inglorious and destructive warfare was perpetuated on the medals of Gaul and Justinian , without unsheathing his sword , assumed the title of conqueror of the Franks . 
His plans of conquest were boundless , and perhaps chimerical . 
who criticizes , as if he had not read , the Greek historian . 
Baronius applauds his treason , and justifies the Catholic bishops qui ne sub heretico principe degant omnem lapidem movent a useful caution . 
hints at the guilt of perjury , and blames at least the imprudence of Datius . 
Datius was more successful against devils than against Barbarians . 
He travelled with a numerons retinue , and occupied at Corinth a large house . 
Note Procopius says distinctly that Milan was the second city of the West . 
Which did Gibbon suppose could compete with it , Ravenna or Naples the next page he calls it the second . 
is slain by the Franks . 
Could he have seduced or subdued the Gepidae or Lombards of Pannonia , the Greek historian is confident that he must have been destroyed in Thrace . 
The king pointed his spear the bull overturned a tree on his head he expired the same day . 
impute his death to a fever . 
Without losing myself in a labyrinth of species and names the aurochs , urus , bisons , bubalus , bonasus , buffalo , c . 
Chapter XLI Conquests Of Justinian , Charact Of Balisarius . 
As soon as Belisarius was delivered from his foreign and domestic enemies , he seriously applied his forces to the final reduction of Italy . 
By this disgraceful and precarious agreement , Italy and the Gothic treasure were divided , and the provinces beyond the Po were left with the regal title to the successor of Theodoric . 
Even the patience and seeming satisfaction with which he entertained a proposal of treason , might be susceptible of a malignant interpretation . 
M. In the siege of Auximum , he first labored to demolish an old aqueduct , and then cast into the stream , . 
The Goths suspected Mathasuintha as an accomplice in the mischief , which perhaps was occasioned by accidental lightning . 
In strict philosophy , a limitation of the rights of war seems to imply nonsense and contradiction . 
Grotius himself is lost in an idle distinction between the jus naturae and the jus gentium , between poison and infection . 
and in the other , the examples of Solon and Belisarius . 
Yet I can understand the benefit and validity of an agreement , tacit or express , mutually to abstain from certain modes of hostility . 
See the Amphictyonic oath in Aeschines , de falsa Legatione . 
that before the third of January , , peace and free correspondence were restored between Ravenna and Faenza . 
Anastasius gives a dark but probable account . 
for a votive shield representing the captivity of Vitiges and now in the collection of Signor Landi at Rome . 
After the second victory of Belisarius , envy again whispered , Justinian listened , and the hero was recalled . 
Justinian deposited in the Byzantine palace the treasures of the Gothic monarchy . 
Whenever he appeared in the streets and public places of Constantinople , Belisarius attracted and satisfied the eyes of the people . 
Seven thousand horsemen , matchless for beauty and valor , were maintained in the service , and at the private expense , of the general . 
By the union of liberality and justice , he acquired the love of the soldiers , without alienating the affections of the people . 
The sick and wounded were relieved with medicines and money and still more efficaciously , by the healing visits and smiles of their commander . 
He was endeared to the husbandmen by the peace and plenty which they enjoyed under the shadow of his standard . 
Belisarius was chaste and sober . 
By these virtues , he equalled or excelled the ancient masters of the military art . 
Victory , by sea and land , attended his arms . 
Procopius , in his Anecdotes , has assumed that servile and ungrateful office . 
The mother of Antonina was a theatrical prostitute , and both her father and grandfather exercised , at Thessalonica and Constantinople , the vile , though lucrative , profession of charioteers . 
During their residence at Carthage , he surprised the two lovers in a subterraneous chamber , solitary , warm , and almost naked . 
Anger flashed from his eyes . 
With the help of this young man , said the unblushing Antonina , I was secreting our most precious effects from the knowledge of Justinian . 
The youth resumed his garments , and the pious husband consented to disbelieve the evidence of his own senses . 
But fear , devotion , and lassitude perhaps , inspired Theodosius with more serious thoughts . 
The despair of the new Ariadne could scarcely have been excused by the death of her husband . 
The diligence of Alemannus could add but little to the four first and most curious chapters of the Anecdotes . 
Of these strange Anecdotes , a part may be true , because probable and a part true , because improbable . 
Procopius must have known the former , and the latter he could scarcely invent . 
Note The malice of court scandal is proverbially inventive and of such scandal the Anecdota may be an embellished record . 
Antonina was sixty years of age . 
This mode of baptismal adoption was revived by Leo the philosopher . 
Antonina pursued her son with implacable hatred and the gallant Photius was exposed to her secret persecutions in the camp beyond the Tigris . 
John the Apostle , and concealed his captives , whose execution was only delayed , in a secure and sequestered fortress of Cilicia . 
At the end of the campaign , Belisarius was recalled he complied , as usual , with the Imperial mandate . 
The bounty of Theodora reserved for her companion a more precious favor . 
Her silent wonder burst into passionate exclamations of gratitude and joy , and she named Theodora her queen , her benefactress , and her savior . 
! The grief of Antonina could only be assuaged by the sufferings of her son . 
He twice escaped to the most venerable sanctuaries of Constantinople , the churches of St . 
His third attempt was more successful . 
The son of Antonina suffered all that an enemy can inflict her patient husband imposed on himself the more exquisite misery of violating his promise and deserting his friend . 
styles him Photinus , the son in law of Belisarius and he is copied by the Historia Miscella and Anastasius . 
This and much of the private scandal in the Anecdota is liable to serious doubt . 
Antonina proposed to raise him to the generalship of the army . 
The sudden change from the abstemious diet of a monk to the luxury of the court is a much more probable cause of his death . 
M. ! ! The expression of Procopius does not appear to me to mean this kind of torture . 
M. In the succeeding campaign , Belisarius was again sent against the Persians he saved the East , but he offended Theodora , and perhaps the emperor himself . 
The malady of Justinian had countenanced the rumor of his death and the Roman general , on the supposition of that probable event spoke the free language of a citizen and a soldier . 
Even his removal was colored by the assurance , that the sinking state of Italy would be retrieved by the single presence of its conqueror . 
When he passed with a small and sordid retinue through the streets of Constantinople , his forlorn appearance excited the amazement and compassion of the people . 
Justinian and Theodora received him with cold ingratitude the servile crowd , with insolence and contempt and in the evening he retired with trembling steps to his deserted palace . 
Long after sunset a messenger was announced from the empress he opened , with anxious curiosity , the letter which contained the sentence of his fate . 
You cannot be ignorant how much you have deserved my displeasure . 
I am not insensible of the services of Antonina . 
To her merits and intercession I have granted your life , and permit you to retain a part of your treasures , which might be justly forfeited to the state . 
Let your gratitude , where it is due , be displayed , not in words , but in your future behavior . 
I know not how to believe or to relate the transports with which the hero is said to have received this ignominious pardon . 
He fell prostrate before his wife , he kissed the feet of his savior , and he devoutly promised to live the grateful and submissive slave of Antonina . 
Their hopes were deceived and the unconquerable patience and loyalty of Belisarius appear either below or above the character of a man . 
Chapter XLII State Of The Barbaric World . 
Part I. State Of The Barbaric World . 
Establishment Of The Lombards On the Danube . 
Tribes And Inroads Of The Sclavonians . 
Origin , Empire , And Embassies Of The Turks . 
The Flight Of The Avars . 
Chosroes I , Or Nushirvan , King Of Persia . 
His Prosperous Reign And Wars With The Romans . 
The Colchian Or Lazic War . 
Our estimate of personal merit , is relative to the common faculties of mankind . 
In this view , the character of Belisarius may be deservedly placed above the heroes of the ancient republics . 
Public and private distress recruited the armies of the state but in the field , and still more in the presence of the enemy , their numbers were always defective . 
The want of national spirit was supplied by the precarious faith and disorderly service of Barbarian mercenaries . 
Even military honor , which has often survived the loss of virtue and freedom , was almost totally extinct . 
In such an age , the triumphs of Belisarius , and afterwards of Narses , shine with incomparable lustre but they are encompassed with the darkest shades of disgrace and calamity . 
The keys of Carthage , Rome , and Ravenna , were presented to their conqueror , while Antioch was destroyed by the Persians , and Justinian trembled for the safety of Constantinople . 
The conversation of Xerxes and Demaratus at Thermopylae is one of the most interesting and moral scenes in history . 
It was the torture of the royal Spartan to behold , with anguish and remorse , the virtue of his country . 
produce a more striking example of the vicissitudes of fortune , and the vanity of human wishes . 
See the third and fourth books of the Gothic War the writer of the Anecdotes cannot aggravate these abuses . 
He confines this weakness of the emperor and the empire to the old age of Justinian but alas ! he was never young . 
imputes to the emperor , is revealed in his epistle to a Scythian prince , who was capable of understanding it . 
The Gepidae are your brave and faithful allies and if they have anticipated your gifts , they have shown a just confidence in your bounty . 
Their presumption was excused by the mode of revenge which Justinian embraced . 
I am not disposed either to question or to justify their Scandinavian origin nor to pursue the migrations of the Lombards through unknown regions and marvellous adventures . 
The smallness of their numbers was recruited by the adoption of their bravest slaves and alone , amidst their powerful neighbors , they defended by arms their high spirited independence . 
Their manners were not less ferocious . 
Their strength was formidable , since the Lombards , who sent into the field several myriads of soldiers , still claimed , as the weaker side , the protection of the Romans . 
Note See Malte Brun , vol . 
are expressive of national manners . 
Dum ad tabulam luderet while he played at draughts . 
The nation was divided into two powerful and hostile tribes , who pursued each other with fraternal hatred . 
But the same race of Sclavonians appears to have maintained , in every age , the possession of the same countries . 
and where known by the resemblance of their form , which deviated from the swarthy Tartar , and approached without attaining the lofty stature and fair complexion of the German . 
The fertility of the soil , rather than the labor of the natives , supplied the rustic plenty of the Sclavonians . 
Their sheep and horned cattle were large and numerous , and the fields which they sowed with millet or panic afforded , in place of bread , a coarse and less nutritive food . 
As their supreme god , they adored an invisible master of the thunder . 
The rivers and the nymphs obtained their subordinate honors , and the popular worship was expressed in vows and sacrifice . 
Some voluntary respect was yielded to age and valor but each tribe or village existed as a separate republic , and all must be persuaded where none could be compelled . 
But these were the achievements of spies or stragglers the military art was unknown to the Sclavonians their name was obscure , and their conquests were inglorious . 
and the Chronicles of Cassiodorus and Marcellinus . 
The name of Huns is too vague the tribes of the Cutturgurians and Utturgurians are too minute and too harsh . 
Note The Bulgarians are first mentioned among the writers of the West in the Panegyric on Theodoric by Ennodius , Bishop of Pavia . 
Though they perhaps took part in the conquests of the Huns , they did not advance to the Danube till after the dismemberment of that monarchy on the death of Attila . 
But the Bulgarians are mentioned much earlier by the Armenian writers . 
Above years before Christ , a tribe of Bulgarians , driven from their native possessions beyond the Caspian , occupied a part of Armenia , north of the Araxes . 
The power of the eastern Bulgarians was broken by Batou , son of Tchingiz Khan that of the western will appear in the course of the history . 
Malte Brun , on the contrary , conceives that the Bulgarians took their name from the river . 
but they have more resemblance to the Turks . 
Their first country , Great Bulgaria , was washed by the Volga . 
Some remains of their capital are still shown near Kasan . 
the Slavo Servians established on the Lower Danube . 
Conquered in their turn by the Avars , they freed themselves from that yoke in their empire then comprised the Cutturgurians , the remains of the Huns established on the Palus Maeotis . 
The Danubian Bulgaria , a dismemberment of this vast state , was long formidable to the Byzantine empire . 
M. According to Shafarik , the Danubian Bulgaria was peopled by a Slavo Bulgarian race . 
This mingled race are the Bulgarians bordering on the Byzantine empire . 
Shafarik , ii , et seq . 
is delivered as an epistle . 
The style is savage , figurative , and original . 
This sum is the result of a particular list , in a curious Ms. fragment of the year , found in the library of Milan . 
The French minister often loses himself in a wilderness which requires a Saxon and Polish guide . 
The Samaritans made a pap of millet , mingled with mare's milk or blood . 
In the wealth of modern husbandry , our millet feeds poultry , and not heroes . 
See the dictionaries of Bomare and Miller . 
a scarce , and hitherto , to me , an inaccessible book . 
I have marked the faint and general outline of the Sclavonians and Bulgarians , without attempting to define their intermediate boundaries , which were not accurately known or respected by the Barbarians themselves . 
The payment of one piece of gold for each soldier procured a safe and easy retreat through the country of the Gepidae , who commanded the passage of the Upper Danube . 
Three thousand Sclavonians , who insolently divided themselves into two bands , discovered the weakness and misery of a triumphant reign . 
Whatever praise the boldness of the Sclavonians may deserve , it is sullied by the wanton and deliberate cruelty which they are accused of exercising on their prisoners . 
Perhaps a more impartial narrative would reduce the number , and qualify the nature , of these horrid acts and they might sometimes be excused by the cruel laws of retaliation . 
The entire population of Turkish Europe , which nearly corresponds with the provinces of Justinian , would perhaps be incapable of supplying six millions of persons , the result of this incredible estimate . 
It had strangely puzzled the civilians of the middle age . 
borrows from his predecessors some early facts . 
these inroads had reduced the provinces south of the Danube to the state of a Scythian wilderness . 
In the midst of these obscure calamities , Europe felt the shock of revolution , which first revealed to the world the name and nation of the Turks . 
They reigned over the north but they confessed the vanity of conquest , by their faithful attachment to the mountain of their fathers . 
One of the successors of Bertezena was tempted by the luxury and superstition of China but his design of building cities and temples was defeated by the simple wisdom of a Barbarian counsellor . 
The Turks , he said , are not equal in number to one hundredth part of the inhabitants of China . 
If we balance their power , and elude their armies , it is because we wander without any fixed habitations in the exercise of war and hunting . 
Are we strong ? we advance and conquer are we feeble ? we retire and are concealed . 
Should the Turks confine themselves within the walls of cities , the loss of a battle would be the destruction of their empire . 
The bonzes preach only patience , humility , and the renunciation of the world . 
Such , O king ! is not the religion of heroes . 
On the side of the West , the Turkish cavalry advanced to the Lake Maeotis . 
They passed that lake on the ice . 
This extent of savage empire compelled the Turkish monarch to establish three subordinate princes of his own blood , who soon forgot their gratitude and allegiance . 
It must be remembered that the name of Turks is extended to a whole family of the Asiatic races , and not confined to the Assena , or Turks of the Altai . 
M. ! Assena was the name of this chief . 
M. From Caf to Caf which a more rational geography would interpret , from Imaus , perhaps , to Mount Atlas . 
According to the religious philosophy of the Mahometans , the basis of Mount Caf is an emerald , whose reflection produces the azure of the sky . 
The mountain is endowed with a sensitive action in its roots or nerves and their vibration , at the command of God , is the cause of earthquakes . 
! ! Altai , i . 
Altun Tagh , the Golden Mountain . 
Von Hammer Osman Geschichte , vol . 
and the twenty generations , from their restoration to Zingis . 
The Mongol Temugin is also , though erroneously , explained by Rubruquis , a smith . 
M. ! ! ! There appears the same confusion here . 
Bertezena is claimed as the founder of the Mongol race . 
The name means the gray wolf . 
In fact , the same tradition of the origin from a wolf seems common to the Mongols and the Turks . 
The Mongol Berte Scheno , of the very curious Mongol History , published and translated by M. Schmidt of Petersburg , is brought from Thibet . 
M. Schmidt considers this tradition of the Thibetane descent of the royal race of the Mongols to be much earlier than their conversion to Lamaism , yet it seems very suspicious . 
The Turkish Bertezena is called Thou men by Klaproth , p . 
In , Thou men took the title of Kha Khan , and was called Il Khan . 
M. Great Bucharia is called Turkistan see Hammer , . 
It includes all the last steppes at the foot of the Altai . 
The name is the same with that of the Turan of Persian poetic legend . 
M. The country of the Turks , now of the Calmucks , is well described in the Genealogical History , p . 
The curious notes of the French translator are enlarged and digested in the second volume of the English version . 
The fact , though it strictly belongs to a subordinate and successive tribe , may be introduced here . 
Peyssonel , Observations sur les Peuples Barbares , p . 
, , defines the distance between Caffa and the old Bosphorus at xvi . 
Chapter XLII State Of The Barbaric World . 
We are willing to devote ourselves to your service we are able to vanquish and destroy all the enemies who now disturb your repose . 
But we expect , as the price of our alliance , as the reward of our valor , precious gifts , annual subsidies , and fruitful possessions . 
The instruments of luxury were immediately prepared to captivate the Barbarians silken garments , soft and splendid beds , and chains and collars incrusted with gold . 
The Ogors or Varchonites , from Var . 
who speak a language the parent of the more modern Turkish dialects . 
They are the ancestors of the Usbeck Turks . 
is a small , though grateful , stream of the desert , that falls into the Orhon , Selinga , c . 
supposes this river to be an eastern affluent of the Volga , the Kama , which , from the color of its waters , might be called black . 
This geography is much more clear and simple than that adopted by Gibbon from De Guignes , or suggested from Bell . 
The Alani are still found in the Genealogical History of the Tartars , and in D'Anville's maps . 
Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions of the emperors may be ascribed to the embassy which was received from the conquerors of the Avars . 
against their own head , and the head of Disabul their master . 
After they had been purified with fire and incense , according to a rite still practised under the sons of Zingis , they were introduced to the presence of Disabul . 
In a valley of the Golden Mountain , they found the great khan in his tent , seated in a chair with wheels , to which a horse might be occasionally harnessed . 
You see my ten fingers , said the great khan , and he applied them to his mouth . 
You Romans speak with as many tongues , but they are tongues of deceit and perjury . 
To me you hold one language , to my subjects another and the nations are successively deluded by your perfidious eloquence . 
You precipitate your allies into war and danger , you enjoy their labors , and you neglect your benefactors . 
Hasten your return , inform your master that a Turk is incapable of uttering or forgiving falsehood , and that he shall speedily meet the punishment which he deserves . 
While he solicits my friendship with flattering and hollow words , he is sunk to a confederate of my fugitive Varchonites . 
Theophanes , and the Hist . 
Miscella , as understood by De Guignes , tom . 
The Russians have found characters , rude hieroglyphics , on the Irtish and Yenisei , on medals , tombs , idols , rocks , obelisks , c . 
has given two alphabets of Thibet and of the Eygours . 
I have long harbored a suspicion , that all the Scythian , and some , perhaps much , of the Indian science , was derived from the Greeks of Bactriana . 
Note Modern discoveries give no confirmation to this suspicion . 
The character of Indian science , as well as of their literature and mythology , indicates an original source . 
Grecian art may have occasionally found its way into India . 
One or two of the sculptures in Col . 
approached Zemarchus , they took all our baggage and placed it in the centre . 
Having thus as they thought , averted all evil , they led Zemarchus himself through the fire . 
Menander , in Niebuhr's Bryant . 
The princes of the race of Zingis Khan condescended to receive the ambassadors of the king of France , at the end of the th century without their submitting to this humiliating rite . 
See Correspondence published by Abel Remusat , Nouv . 
On the embassy of Zemarchus , compare Klaproth , Tableaux de l'Asie p . 
in which we often regret the want of order and connection . 
Disputes have often arisen between the sovereigns of Asia for the title of king of the world while the contest has proved that it could not belong to either of the competitors . 
His contemporary , Cabades , or Kobad , had been successful in war against the emperor Anastasius but the reign of that prince was distracted by civil and religious troubles . 
His nobles were suspicious that Kobad never forgave the authors of his expulsion , or even those of his restoration . 
He filled that throne during a prosperous period of forty eight years and the Justice of Nushirvan is celebrated as the theme of immortal praise by the nations of the East . 
at Wischapour in Chorasan his father's name was Bamdadam . 
He announces himself as a reformer of Zoroastrianism , and carried the doctrine of the two principles to a much grater height . 
Mirkhond translated by De Sacy . 
It is remarkable that the doctrine of Mazdak spread into the West . 
Gesenius de Inscriptione Phoenicio Graeca in Cyrenaica nuper reperta , Halle , . 
Hamaker , Lettre a M. Raoul Rochette , Leyden , . 
Yet the Greek historians seem unanimous as to the proposal the Persians might be expected to maintain silence on such a subject . 
Was not Proclus over wise ? Was not the danger imaginary ? The excuse , at least , was injurious to a nation not ignorant of letters . 
Whether any mode of adoption was practised in Persia , I much doubt . 
According to the annals of Eutychius , Nushirvan reigned forty seven years and six months and his death must consequently be placed in March , A. D. . 
But the justice of kings is understood by themselves , and even by their subjects , with an ample indulgence for the gratification of passion and interest . 
In his domestic administration , the just Nushirvan would merit in our feelings the appellation of a tyrant . 
His government was firm , rigorous , and impartial . 
Instead of listening with blind confidence to a favorite minister , he established four viziers over the four great provinces of his empire , Assyria , Media , Persia , and Bactriana . 
The code of laws of the first Artaxerxes was revived and published as the rule of the magistrates but the assurance of speedy punishment was the best security of their virtue . 
Education and agriculture he viewed as the two objects most deserving of his care . 
This is a strange term . 
Nushirvan employed a stratagem similar to that of Jehu , Kings , x . 
, to separate the followers of Mazdak from the rest of his subjects , and with a body of his troops cut them all in pieces . 
The Greek writers concur with the Persian in this representation of Nushirvan's temperate conduct . 
Abulfeda , in an unedited part , consulted by St . 
Martin as well as in a passage formerly cited . 
M. In Persia , the prince of the waters is an officer of state . 
who has translated a spurious or genuine testament of Nushirvan . 
Nushirvan believed , or at least respected , the religion of the Magi and some traces of persecution may be discovered in his reign . 
The physician Perozes was secretly despatched to the banks of the Ganges , with instructions to procure , at any price , the communication of this valuable work . 
His dexterity obtained a transcript , his learned diligence accomplished the translation and the fables of Pilpay were read and admired in the assembly of Nushirvan and his nobles . 
Fifteen moral and political sentences are illustrated in a series of apologues but the composition is intricate , the narrative prolix , and the precept obvious and barren . 
Nor had this constitutional maxim been neglected as a useless and barren theory . 
displays much information and strong prejudices . 
preserved after the Mahometan conquest , and versified in the year , by the national poet Ferdoussi . 
ascribes to an idiom renowned in the East for poetical softness . 
Agathias specifies the Gorgias , Phaedon , Parmenides , and Timaeus . 
does not mention this Barbaric version of Aristotle . 
Of these fables , I have seen three copies in three different languages . 
from the Arabic , and published by Starck at Berlin in , in mo . 
In Latin , a version from the Greek Sapientia Indorum , inserted by Pere Poussin at the end of his edition of Pachymer , . 
In French , from the Turkish , dedicated , in , to Sultan Soliman Contes et Fables Indiennes de Bidpai et de Lokman , par Mm . 
Galland et Cardonne , Paris , , vols . 
analyzed by Mr. Wilson in the Transactions of the Royal Asiat . 
It was translated into Arabic by Abdolla Ibn Mokaffa , under the name of Kalila and Dimnah . 
From the Arabic it passed into the European languages . 
Compare Wilson , in Trans . 
dohlen , das alte Indien , ii . 
Silvestre de Sacy , Memoire sur Kalila vs Dimnah . 
M. See the Historia Shahiludii of Dr . 
Chapter XLII State Of The Barbaric World . 
Chosroes saw the Roman ambassadors at his feet . 
Unpractised in the art of violating treaties , he secretly excited his bold and subtle vassal Almondar . 
The subject of their dispute was an extensive sheep walk in the desert to the south of Palmyra . 
Their representations were uniform , weighty , and effectual . 
We stand before your throne , the advocates of your interest as well as of our own . 
The ambitious and faithless Justinian aspires to be the sole master of the world . 
Embrace , O king ! the favorable moment the East is left without defence , while the armies of Justinian and his renowned general are detained in the distant regions of the West . 
If you hesitate or delay , Belisarius and his victorious troops will soon return from the Tyber to the Tigris , and Persia may enjoy the wretched consolation of being the last devoured . 
Marcellinus , in his Chronicle , uses the style of Medes and Persians . 
Almondar , king of Hira , was deposed by Kobad , and restored by Nushirvan . 
We are ignorant of the origin and object of this strata , a paved road of ten days' journey from Auranitis to Babylonia . 
Wesseling and D'Anville are silent . 
I have blended , in a short speech , the two orations of the Arsacides of Armenia and the Gothic ambassadors . 
Whatever might be the provocations of Chosroes , he abused the confidence of treaties and the just reproaches of dissimulation and falsehood could only be concealed by the lustre of his victories . 
The cathedral of Antioch was indeed preserved by the avarice , not the piety , of the conqueror a more honorable exemption was granted to the church of St . 
Eighteen miles below Antioch , the River Orontes falls into the Mediterranean . 
Palestine , and the holy wealth of Jerusalem , were the next objects that attracted the ambition , or rather the avarice , of Chosroes . 
The invasion of Syria , the ruin of Antioch , c . 
should blush when he blames them for making Justinian and Nushirvan contemporaries . 
On the geography of the seat of war , D'Anville is sufficient and satisfactory . 
It is Sura in Procopius . 
Is it a misprint in Gibbon ? M. ! Joannes Lydus attributes the easy capture of Antioch to the want of fortifications which had not been restored since the earthquake , l . 
M. Lydus asserts that he carried away all the statues , pictures , and marbles which adorned the city , l . 
M. These hopes might have been realized , if the conqueror of Italy had not been seasonably recalled to the defence of the East . 
But the plans of Belisarius were disconcerted by the untractable spirit of Arethas , who neither returned to the camp , nor sent any intelligence of his motions . 
He found the Roman generals , among whom was a nephew of Justinian , imprisoned by their fears in the fortifications of Hierapolis . 
His firm attitude on the banks of the Euphrates restrained Chosroes from advancing towards Palestine and he received with art and dignity the ambassadors , or rather spies , of the Persian monarch . 
The plain between Hierapolis and the river was covered with the squadrons of cavalry , six thousand hunters , tall and robust , who pursued their game without the apprehension of an enemy . 
On the opposite bank the ambassadors descried a thousand Armenian horse , who appeared to guard the passage of the Euphrates . 
The tent of Belisarius was of the coarsest linen , the simple equipage of a warrior who disdained the luxury of the East . 
Around his tent , the nations who marched under his standard were arranged with skilful confusion . 
Chosroes was deluded by the address , and awed by the genius , of the lieutenant of Justinian . 
The second removal of Belisarius from the Persian to the Italian war revealed the extent of his personal merit , which had corrected or supplied the want of discipline and courage . 
Fifteen generals , without concert or skill , led through the mountains of Armenia an army of thirty thousand Romans , inattentive to their signals , their ranks , and their ensigns . 
The Lazic war , the contest of Rome and Persia on the Phasis , is tediously spun through many a page of Procopius Gothic . 
The extreme length of the Euxine Sea from Constantinople to the mouth of the Phasis , may be computed as a voyage of nine days , and a measure of seven hundred miles . 
As it successively collects the streams of the plain of Colchos , the Phasis moves with diminished speed , though accumulated weight . 
Yet the vintage is more plentiful than the harvest and the bulk of the stems , as well as the quality of the wine , display the unassisted powers of nature . 
Their silver palaces and golden chambers surpass our belief but the fame of their riches is said to have excited the enterprising avarice of the Argonauts . 
Tradition has affirmed , with some color of reason , that Egypt planted on the Phasis a learned and polite colony , which manufactured linen , built navies , and invented geographical maps . 
who ventures to assume the character of the Roman historian . 
and contains whatever the governor of Pontus had seen from Trebizond to Dioscurias whatever he had heard from Dioscurias to the Danube and whatever he knew from the Danube to Trebizond . 
Besides the many occasional hints from the poets , historians c . 
I shall quote , and have used , three modern descriptions of Mingrelia and the adjacent countries . 
who has all the knowledge and prejudices of a missionary . 
His observations are judicious and his own adventures in the country are still more instructive than his observations . 
He had long resided at Caffa , as consul of France and his erudition is less valuable than his experience . 
The sagacious Chardin could find no gold in mines , rivers , or elsewhere . 
Yet a Mingrelian lost his hand and foot for showing some specimens at Constantinople of native gold Herodot . 
Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
couvero de villes et nations qui ne sont plus . 
Bougainville , Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
, on the African voyage of Hanno and the commerce of antiquity . 
But the riches of Colchos shine only through the darkness of conjecture or tradition and its genuine history presents a uniform scene of rudeness and poverty . 
The rite of circumcision is practised only by the Mahometans of the Euxine and the curled hair and swarthy complexion of Africa no longer disfigure the most perfect of the human race . 
The proper district of Mingrelia , a portion only of the ancient Colchos , has long sustained an exportation of twelve thousand slaves . 
In the host of Xerxes , they served on foot and their arms were a dagger or a javelin , a wooden casque , and a buckler of raw hides . 
The Colchian government has been always a pure and hereditary kingdom and the authority of the sovereign is only restrained by the turbulence of his subjects . 
A Greek historian , Timosthenes , had affirmed , in eam ccc . 
nationes dissimilibus linguis descendere and the modest Pliny is content to add , et postea a nostris cxxx . 
But the words nunc deserta cover a multitude of past fictions . 
collects the unanimous suffrage of naturalists and travellers . 
this precious fact is an example of the influence of climate on a foreign colony . 
Lamberti , Relation de la Mingrelie . 
Yet we must avoid the contrary extreme of Chardin , who allows no more than , inhabitants to supply an annual exportation of , slaves an absurdity unworthy of that judicious traveller . 
Chapter XLII State Of The Barbaric World . 
In pursuit of Mithridates , the Romans advanced to the banks of the Phasis , and their galleys ascended the river till they reached the camp of Pompey and his legions . 
But the senate , and afterwards the emperors , disdained to reduce that distant and useless conquest into the form of a province . 
One of these lieutenants , the eloquent and philosophic Arrian , surveyed , and has described , the Euxine coast , under the reign of Hadrian . 
Their independence was soon invaded by a formidable neighbor , who had acquired , by arms and treaties , the sovereignty of Iberia . 
, their arms and service in the expedition of Xerxes against Greece . 
In the time of Procopius , there were no Roman forts on the Phasis . 
In the age of Justinian , they spread , or at least reigned , over the whole country . 
The fact is authentic , but the date seems too recent . 
In speaking of their Persian alliance , the Lazi contemporaries of Justinian employ the most obsolete words , c . 
Could they belong to a connection which had not been dissolved above twenty years ? But this honorable connection was soon corrupted by the avarice and ambition of the Romans . 
Degraded from the rank of allies , the Lazi were incessantly reminded , by words and actions , of their dependent state . 
At the distance of a day's journey beyond the Apsarus , they beheld the rising fortress of Petra , which commanded the maritime country to the south of the Phasis . 
Disappointed in their expectations of Christian virtue , the indignant Lazi reposed some confidence in the justice of an unbeliever . 
After a private assurance that their ambassadors should not be delivered to the Romans , they publicly solicited the friendship and aid of Chosroes . 
But the Lazi soon discovered , that their impatience had urged them to choose an evil more intolerable than the calamities which they strove to escape . 
The monopoly of salt and corn was effectually removed by the loss of those valuable commodities . 
The watchful jealousy of the Colchians foresaw and averted the approaching ruin . 
The sole vestige of Petra subsists in the writings of Procopius and Agathias . 
Most of the towns and castles of Lazica may be found by comparing their names and position with the map of Mingrelia , in Lamberti . 
In the years , , and , he conversed with Shah Abbas , and strongly encouraged a design which might have united Persia and Europe against their common enemy the Turk . 
is a Greek fiction , and that their tombs could be no more than cenotaphs . 
These seem the same people called Suanians , p . 
M. The siege of Petra , which the Roman general , with the aid of the Lazi , immediately undertook , is one of the most remarkable actions of the age . 
The city was seated on a craggy rock , which hung over the sea , and communicated by a steep and narrow path with the land . 
Since the approach was difficult , the attack might be deemed impossible the Persian conqueror had strengthened the fortifications of Justinian and the places least inaccessible were covered by additional bulwarks . 
The operations , both of the attack and defence , were conducted with skilful obstinacy and each party derived useful lessons from the experience of their past faults . 
The fate of these valiant men deserves to be more distinctly noticed . 
Seven hundred had perished in the siege , two thousand three hundred survived to defend the breach . 
They died in obedience to the commands of their prince and such examples of loyalty and valor might excite their countrymen to deeds of equal despair and more prosperous event . 
The instant demolition of the works of Petra confessed the astonishment and apprehension of the conqueror . 
In the Roman camp , faith and discipline were unknown and the independent leaders , who were invested with equal power , disputed with each other the preeminence of vice and corruption . 
The Persians followed , without a murmur , the commands of a single chief , who implicitly obeyed the instructions of their supreme lord . 
Their general was distinguished among the heroes of the East by his wisdom in council , and his valor in the field . 
Such presumption was the natural cause and forerunner of a shameful defeat . 
Despair united their counsels and invigorated their arms they withstood the assault of the Persians and the flight of Nacoragan preceded or followed the slaughter of ten thousand of his bravest soldiers . 
The fidelity of Gubazes sustained the most rigorous trials . 
He patiently endured the hardships of a savage life , and rejected with disdain , the specious temptations of the Persian court . 
In the first moments of rage and despair , the Colchians would have sacrificed their country and religion to the gratification of revenge . 
A judge of senatorial rank was commissioned to inquire into the conduct and death of the king of the Lazi . 
According to Agathias , the death of Gubazos preceded the defeat of Nacoragan . 
The trial took place after the battle . 
lavishes eighteen or twenty pages of false and florid rhetoric . 
His ignorance or carelessness overlooks the strongest argument against the king of Lazica his former revolt . 
This gigantic style was supported by the pomp and eloquence of Isdigune , one of the royal chamberlains . 
When Isdigune had saluted the emperor , and delivered his presents , he passed ten months at Constantinople without discussing any serious affairs . 
According to the Orientals , the empire of Nushirvan extended from Ferganah , in Transoxiana , to Yemen or Arabia Faelix . 
Victorious and respected among the princes of Asia , he gave audience , in his palace of Madain , or Ctesiphon , to the ambassadors of the world . 
des Anciens Traites , tom . 
Justinian had been reproached for his alliance with the Aethiopians , as if he attempted to introduce a people of savage negroes into the system of civilized society . 
But the friends of the Roman empire , the Axumites , or Abyssinians , may be always distinguished from the original natives of Africa . 
The hand of nature has flattened the noses of the negroes , covered their heads with shaggy wool , and tinged their skin with inherent and indelible blackness . 
The Jews , powerful and active in exile , had seduced the mind of Dunaan , prince of the Homerites . 
The churches of Arabia implored the protection of the Abyssinian monarch . 
Nonnosus , descended from a family of ambassadors , was named by the emperor to execute this important commission . 
But the proposal of the silk trade was eluded and notwithstanding the assurances , and perhaps the wishes , of the Abyssinians , these hostile menaces evaporated without effect . 
Instead of enlarging his conquests , the king of Aethiopia was incapable of defending his possessions . 
This narrative of obscure and remote events is not foreign to the decline and fall of the Roman empire . 
in the colony of Abyssinia , will justify the suspicion , that race , as well as climate , must have contributed to form the negroes of the adjacent and similar regions . 
considers them to be distinct from the Arabs in feature , color , habit , and manners . 
could only relate of modern Abyssinia what they had seen or invented . 
in twenty five languages , could add little concerning its ancient history . 
Yet the fame of Caled , or Ellisthaeus , the conqueror of Yemen , is celebrated in national songs and legends . 
and John Malala , tom . 
has preserved a curious extract . 
that in the middle of the fourth century of our era the princes of the Axumites joined to their titles that of king of the Homerites . 
The conquests which they made over the Arabs in the sixth century were only a restoration of the ancient order of things . 
who investigates the state of the Jews in Arabia and Aethiopia . 
massacred , Christians , and threw them into a pit , where they were burned . 
saw the flourishing state of Axume in the year luogomolto buono e grande . 
It was ruined in the same century by the Turkish invasion . 
Note Lord Valentia's and Mr. Salt's Travels give a high notion of the ruins of Axum . 
M. ! ! The Negus is differently called Elesbaan , Elesboas , Elisthaeus , probably the same name , or rather appellation . 
Abrahah was a Christian he built a magnificent church at Sana , and dissuaded his subjects from their accustomed pilgrimages to Mecca . 
The church was defiled , it was supposed , by the Koreishites , and Abrahah took up arms to revenge himself on the temple at Mecca . 
The revolt of Abrahah is mentioned by Procopius and his fall , though clouded with miracles , is an historical fact . 
Note To the authors who have illustrated the obscure history of the Jewish and Abyssinian kingdoms in Homeritis may be added Schultens , Hist . 
Joctanidarum Walch , Historia rerum in Homerite gestarum , in the th vol . 
of the Gottingen Transactions Salt's Travels , vol . 
Sylvestre de Sacy , vol . 
Jost , Geschichte der Israeliter Johannsen , Hist . 
Martin's notes to Le Beau , t . 
M. A period of sixty seven years is assigned by most of the Arabian authorities to the Abyssinian kingdoms in Homeritis . 
M. Chapter XLIII Last Victory And Death Of Belisarius , Death Of Justinian . 
Part I. Rebellions Of Africa . 
Restoration Of The Gothic Kingdom By Totila . 
Loss And Recovery Of Rome . 
Final Conquest Of Italy By Narses . 
Defeat Of The Franks And Alemanni . 
Last Victory , Disgrace , And Death Of Belisarius . 
Death And Character Of Justinian . 
Comet , Earthquakes , And Plague . 
From his new acquisitions , Justinian expected that his avarice , as well as pride , should be richly gratified . 
Many of the Roman soldiers had married the widows and daughters of the Vandals . 
As their own , by the double right of conquest and inheritance , they claimed the estates which Genseric had assigned to his victorious troops . 
Of the Vandals chosen by Belisarius , the far greater part , in the honors of the Eastern service , forgot their country and religion . 
Under the mask of freedom , his eloquence could lead , or at least impel , the passions of his equals . 
He fell in a single combat , but he smiled in the agonies of death , when he was informed that his own javelin had reached the heart of his antagonist . 
The feeble Areobindus , unskilled in the affairs of peace and war , was raised , by his marriage with the niece of Justinian , to the office of exarch . 
He was suddenly oppressed by a sedition of the guards , and his abject supplications , which provoked the contempt , could not move the pity , of the inexorable tyrant . 
nor can I discern any symptoms of flattery or malevolence in his various portraits . 
who broke desperately through the victorious troops of the enemy . 
Stoza repented , says the poet , of his treasonous rebellion , and anticipated another Cataline eternal torments as his punishment . 
Reddam , improba , poenas Quas merui . 
Furiis socius Catilina cruentis Exagitatus adest . 
Video jam Tartara , fundo Flammarumque globos , et clara incendia volvi . 
All the other authorities confirm Gibbon's account of the death of John by the hand of Stoza . 
This poem of Corippus , unknown to Gibbon , was first published by Mazzuchelli during the present century , and is reprinted in the new edition of the Byzantine writers . 
Hunc placidus cana gravitate coegit Inumitera mactare virum . 
M. Yet I must not refuse him the merit of painting , in lively colors , the murder of Gontharis . 
A Moorish tribe encamped under the walls of Leptis , to renew their alliance , and receive from the governor the customary gifts . 
A personal injury , the unjust execution or murder of his brother , rendered Antalas the enemy of the Romans . 
He proposed a treaty solicited a reconciliation and offered to bind himself by the most solemn oaths . 
By what oaths can he bind himself ? interrupted the indignant Moors . 
Before we trust them a second time , let us try their efficacy in the chastisement of perjury and the vindication of their own honor . 
Their honor was vindicated in the field of Tebeste , by the death of Solomon , and the total loss of his army . 
The nation of the Vandals had disappeared they once amounted to a hundred and sixty thousand warriors , without including the children , the women , or the slaves . 
When Procopius first landed , he admired the populousness of the cities and country , strenuously exercised in the labors of commerce and agriculture . 
and Theophanes adds some prosperous and adverse events in the last years of Justinian . 
Now Tibesh , in the kingdom of Algiers . 
a fountain , and a grove of walnut trees the country is fruitful , and the neighboring Bereberes are warlike . 
describes the defeat and death of Solomon . 
The series of the African history at tests this melancholy truth . 
their capital , their treasures , the provinces from Sicily to the Alps , and the military force of two hundred thousand Barbarians , magnificently equipped with horses and arms . 
The supreme command was unanimously offered to the brave Uraias and it was in his eyes alone that the disgrace of his uncle Vitiges could appear as a reason of exclusion . 
The success of his arms in Liguria and Venetia seemed to justify their choice but he soon declared to the world that he was incapable of forgiving or commanding his benefactor . 
Procopius continues the history of the Gothic war from the fifth to the fifteenth year of Justinian . 
As the events are less interesting than in the former period , he allots only half the space to double the time . 
Jornandes , and the Chronicle of Marcellinus , afford some collateral hints Sigonius , Pagi , Muratori , Mascou , and De Buat , are useful , and have been used . 
His real name , as appears by medals , was Baduilla , or Badiula . 
Totila signifies immortal tod is death . 
Compare St Martin , vol . 
The gates of Verona were secretly opened to Artabazus , at the head of one hundred Persians in the service of the empire . 
The Goths fled from the city . 
At the distance of sixty furlongs the Roman generals halted to regulate the division of the spoil . 
Twenty thousand Romans encountered the forces of Totila , near Faenza , and on the hills of Mugello , of the Florentine territory . 
The king of the Goths , who blushed for the baseness of his enemies , pursued with rapid steps the path of honor and victory . 
The Roman chiefs , imprisoned in their respective cities , and accusing each other of the common disgrace , did not presume to disturb his enterprise . 
But the emperor , alarmed by the distress and danger of his Italian conquests , despatched to the relief of Naples a fleet of galleys and a body of Thracian and Armenian soldiers . 
They requested a truce , with a promise of surrendering the city , if no effectual relief should appear at the end of thirty days . 
Instead of one month , the audacious Barbarian granted them three , in the just confidence that famine would anticipate the term of their capitulation . 
After the reduction of Naples and Cumae , the provinces of Lucania , Apulia , and Calabria , submitted to the king of the Goths . 
This is not quite correct he had crossed the Po before the battle of Faenza . 
M. The rapid success of Totila may be partly ascribed to the revolution which three years' experience had produced in the sentiments of the Italians . 
The virtues of Belisarius were replaced by the various or uniform vices of eleven chiefs , at Rome , Ravenna , Florence , Perugia , Spoleto , c . 
, who abused their authority for the indulgence of lust or avarice . 
Instead of expecting the restoration of peace and industry , he imposed a heavy assessment on the fortunes of the Italians . 
Totila was chaste and temperate and none were deceived , either friends or enemies , who depended on his faith or his clemency . 
Procopius accuses only the empress and Antonina . 
does ample and willing justice to the merit of Totila . 
The Roman historians , from Sallust and Tacitus were happy to forget the vices of their countrymen in the contemplation of Barbaric virtue . 
Not a man was tempted to desert the standard of the Gothic king . 
Most excellent prince , we are arrived in Italy , destitute of all the necessary implements of war , men , horses , arms , and money . 
The soldiers already stationed in the province are discontented , fearful , and dismayed at the sound of an enemy , they dismiss their horses , and cast their arms on the ground . 
No taxes can be raised , since Italy is in the hands of the Barbarians the failure of payment has deprived us of the right of command , or even of admonition . 
Be assured , dread Sir , that the greater part of your troops have already deserted to the Goths . 
If the war could be achieved by the presence of Belisarius alone , your wishes are satisfied Belisarius is in the midst of Italy . 
But if you desire to conquer , far other preparations are requisite without a military force , the title of general is an empty name . 
It would be expedient to restore to my service my own veteran and domestic guards . 
An officer in whom Belisarius confided was sent from Ravenna to hasten and conduct the succors but the message was neglected , and the messenger was detained at Constantinople by an advantageous marriage . 
His powers were still inadequate to the deliverance of Rome , which was closely besieged by the Gothic king . 
From the distress of the people he extracted a profitable trade , and secretly rejoiced in the continuance of the siege . 
Bessas replied , with unfeeling tranquillity , that it was impossible to feed , unsafe to dismiss , and unlawful to kill , the subjects of the emperor . 
Yet the example of a private citizen might have shown his countrymen that a tyrant cannot withhold the privilege of death . 
and the historian is equally true to the merits and defects of his character . 
The chastisement which the author of the romance of Belisaire has inflicted on the oppressor of Rome is more agreeable to justice than to history . 
Chapter XLIII Last Victory And Death Of Belisarius , Death Of Justinian . 
The foresight of Totila had raised obstacles worthy of such an antagonist . 
But the enterprise of forcing these barriers , and relieving the capital , displays a shining example of the boldness and conduct of Belisarius . 
His cavalry advanced from the port along the public road , to awe the motions , and distract the attention of the enemy . 
The whole fleet , which the general led in person , was laboriously moved against the current of the river . 
The chain yielded to their weight , and the enemies who guarded the banks were either slain or scattered . 
But avarice rendered Bessas immovable while the youthful ardor of Isaac delivered him into the hands of a superior enemy . 
The vexation of his mind produced an ardent and almost mortal fever and Rome was left without protection to the mercy or indignation of Totila . 
Famine had relaxed the strength and discipline of the garrison of Rome . 
They could derive no effectual service from a dying people and the inhuman avarice of the merchant at length absorbed the vigilance of the governor . 
The patricians , who were still possessed of horses , Decius , Basilius , c . 
accompanied the governor their brethren , among whom Olybrius , Orestes , and Maximus , are named by the historian , took refuge in the church of St . 
Peter but the assertion , that only five hundred persons remained in the capital , inspires some doubt of the fidelity either of his narrative or of his text . 
The archdeacon Pelagius stood before him , with the Gospels in his hand . 
O Lord , be merciful to your servant . 
Pelagius , said Totila , with an insulting smile , your pride now condescends to become a suppliant . 
I am a suppliant , replied the prudent archdeacon God has now made us your subjects , and as your subjects , we are entitled to your clemency . 
At his humble prayer , the lives of the Romans were spared and the chastity of the maids and matrons was preserved inviolate from the passions of the hungry soldiers . 
But they were rewarded by the freedom of pillage , after the most precious spoils had been reserved for the royal treasury . 
The houses of the senators were plentifully stored with gold and silver and the avarice of Bessas had labored with so much guilt and shame for the benefit of the conqueror . 
The riches of Rusticiana , the daughter of Symmachus and widow of Boethius , had been generously devoted to alleviate the calamities of famine . 
With the remainder of his forces he marched into Lucania and Apulia , and occupied on the summit of Mount Garganus one of the camps of Hannibal . 
by the pope Pelagius , who was not thought guiltless of the sufferings of his predecessor . 
who relates several curious incidents of the sieges of Rome and the wars of Italy . 
Mount Garganus , now Monte St . 
and in the darker ages was illustrated by the apparition , miracles , and church , of St . 
ac evertit muros , domos aliquantas igni comburens , ac omnes Romanorum res in praedam ac cepit , hos ipsos Romanos in Campaniam captivos abduxit . 
Post quam devastationem , xl . 
The loss of Rome was speedily retrieved by an action , to which , according to the event , the public opinion would apply the names of rashness or heroism . 
At the expiration of twenty five days , Totila returned by hasty marches from Apulia to avenge the injury and disgrace . 
The indolence , perhaps the impotence , of a prince who despised his enemies , and envied his servants , protracted the calamities of Italy . 
In this ignoble warfare , the hero , invincible against the power of the Barbarians , was basely vanquished by the delay , the disobedience , and the cowardice of his own officers . 
He reposed in his winter quarters of Crotona , in the full assurance , that the two passes of the Lucanian hills were guarded by his cavalry . 
They were betrayed by treachery or weakness and the rapid march of the Goths scarcely allowed time for the escape of Belisarius to the coast of Sicily . 
In the first attempt , the Roman forces were dissipated by a storm . 
The metaphor was borrowed from the tribuli , an herb with a prickly fruit , commex in Italy . 
Ruscia , the navale Thuriorum , was transferred to the distance of sixty stadia to Ruscianum , Rossano , an archbishopric without suffragans . 
The republic of Sybaris is now the estate of the duke of Corigliano . 
The five last campaigns of Belisarius might abate the envy of his competitors , whose eyes had been dazzled and wounded by the blaze of his former glory . 
The parsimony or poverty of the emperor compelled him to deviate from the rule of conduct which had deserved the love and confidence of the Italians . 
The avarice of Antonina , which had been some times diverted by love , now reigned without a rival in her breast . 
Belisarius himself had always understood , that riches , in a corrupt age , are the support and ornament of personal merit . 
And it cannot be presumed that he should stain his honor for the public service , without applying a part of the spoil to his private emolument . 
The hero had escaped the sword of the Barbarians . 
But the dagger of conspiracy awaited his return . 
In the midst of wealth and honors , Artaban , who had chastised the African tyrant , complained of the ingratitude of courts . 
He aspired to Praejecta , the emperor's niece , who wished to reward her deliverer but the impediment of his previous marriage was asserted by the piety of Theodora . 
The pride of royal descent was irritated by flattery and the service in which he gloried had proved him capable of bold and sanguinary deeds . 
The death of Justinian was resolved , but the conspirators delayed the execution till they could surprise Belisarius disarmed , and naked , in the palace of Constantinople . 
And yet I will remark , . 
That in the year , Theodora could sarcely have a grandson of the age of puberty . 
That we are totally ignorant of this daughter and her husband and , . 
That Theodora concealed her bastards , and that her grandson by Justinian would have been heir apparent of the empire . 
The designs of Antonina were favored by the fluctuating jurisprudence of Justinian . 
Before the departure of Belisarius , Perusia was besieged , and few cities were impregnable to the Gothic arms . 
Three thousand of the bravest soldiers had been left to defend the capital . 
The siege of Rome would perhaps have been raised , if the liberality of Totila to the Isaurians had not encouraged some of their venal countrymen to copy the example of treason . 
In a dark night , while the Gothic trumpets sounded on another side , they silently opened the gate of St . 
Paul the Barbarians rushed into the city and the flying garrison was intercepted before they could reach the harbor of Centumcellae . 
A soldier trained in the school of Belisarius , Paul of Cilicia , retired with four hundred men to the mole of Hadrian . 
They repelled the Goths but they felt the approach of famine and their aversion to the taste of horse flesh confirmed their resolution to risk the event of a desperate and decisive sally . 
Whilst he amused the eyes of the multitude , four hundred vessels were prepared for the embarkation of his troops . 
Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the fortune of Italy and the sea coast of Greece was visited by a fleet of three hundred galleys . 
But all antiquity is ignorant of relic . 
In these seas Procopius searched without success for the Isle of Calypso . 
Eustathius had supposed it to be the fanciful likeness of a rock . 
illustrates the Gulf of Ambracia but he cannot ascertain the situation of Dodona . 
A country in sight of Italy is less known than the wilds of America . 
Note On the site of Dodona compare Walpole's Travels in the East , vol . 
Leake's Northern Greece , vol . 
in the appendix to Hughes's Travels , vol . 
M. Justinian was deaf to the voice of peace but he neglected the prosecution of war and the indolence of his temper disappointed , in some degree , the obstinacy of his passions . 
In the choice of the generals , caprice , as well as judgment , was shown . 
In the place of Liberius , the conspirator Artaban was raised from a prison to military honors in the pious presumption , that gratitude would animate his valor and fortify his allegiance . 
The Romans advanced to Sardica an army of Sclavonians fled before their march but within two days of their final departure , the designs of Germanus were terminated by his malady and death . 
Yet the impulse which he had given to the Italian war still continued to act with energy and effect . 
! This is a singular mistake . 
Gibbon must have hastily caught at his inexperience , and concluded that it must have been from youth . 
Lord Mahon has pointed out this error , p . 
I should add that in the last to . 
edition , corrected by Gibbon , it stands want of youth and experience but Gibbon can scarcely have intended such a phrase . 
Notwithstanding an ambiguous expression of Jornandes , fratri suo , Alemannus has proved that he was the son of the emperor's brother . 
He wrote at Ravenna before the death of Totila See note , p . 
After the loss of Germanus , the nations were provoked to smile , by the strange intelligence , that the command of the Roman armies was given to a eunuch . 
But the eunuch Narses is ranked among the few who have rescued that unhappy name from the contempt and hatred of mankind . 
A feeble , diminutive body concealed the soul of a statesman and a warrior . 
Twelve years after his return , the eunuch was chosen to achieve the conquest which had been left imperfect by the first of the Roman generals . 
The East could not supply vessels capable of transporting such multitudes of men and horses . 
The Franks , who , in the general confusion , had usurped the greater part of the Venetian province , refused a free passage to the friends of the Lombards . 
Nine days he reposed in the city , collected the fragments of the Italian army , and marching towards Rimini to meet the defiance of an insulting enemy . 
The country of Narses is unknown , since he must not be confounded with the Persarmenian . 
Chartularius Marcellinus adds the name of Cubicularius . 
The law of Theodosius against ennuchs was obsolete or abolished , Annotation xx . 
Note Lord Mahon supposes them both to have been Persarmenians . 
I am surprised that Alboin , their martial king , did not lead his subjects in person . 
Note The Lombards were still at war with the Gepidae . 
he draws volunteers from Germany , on the authority of Cousin , who , in one place , has mistaken Germanus for Germania . 
Yet only a few pages further we find Gibbon loudly condemning the French and Latin readers of Procopius . 
The first of these errors remains uncorrected in the new edition of the Byzantines . 
In the time of Augustus , and in the middle ages , the whole waste from Aquileia to Ravenna was covered with woods , lakes , and morasses . 
Man has subdued nature , and the land has been cultivated since the waters are confined and embanked . 
from Vitruvius , Strabo , Herodian , old charters , and local knowledge . 
Chapter XLIII Last Victory And Death Of Belisarius , Death Of Justinian . 
The prudence of Narses impelled him to speedy and decisive action . 
The same considerations might have tempered the ardor of Totila . 
The haughty message of Narses was an offer , not of peace , but of pardon . 
The answer of the Gothic king declared his resolution to die or conquer . 
Ten thousand Heruli and Lombards , of approved valor and doubtful faith , were placed in the centre . 
Narses awaited the charge and it was delayed by Totila till he had received his last succors of two thousand Goths . 
While he consumed the hours in fruitless treaty , the king exhibited in a narrow space the strength and agility of a warrior . 
As soon as the succors had arrived , he retired to his tent , assumed the dress and arms of a private soldier , and gave the signal of a battle . 
The first line of cavalry advanced with more courage than discretion , and left behind them the infantry of the second line . 
A generous emulation inspired the Romans and their Barbarian allies and Narses , who calmly viewed and directed their efforts , doubted to whom he should adjudge the prize of superior bravery . 
Six thousand of the Goths were slaughtered without mercy in the field of Tagina . 
Their prince , with five attendants , was overtaken by Asbad , of the race of the Gepidae . 
Spare the king of Italy , cried a loyal voice , and Asbad struck his lance through the body of Totila . 
Compassion afforded him the shelter of an obscure tomb but the Romans were not satisfied of their victory , till they beheld the corpse of the Gothic king . 
His hat , enriched with gems , and his bloody robe , were presented to Justinian by the messengers of triumph . 
may be thus stated Rome to Narni , Roman miles Terni , Spoleto , Foligno , Nocera , Cagli , Intercisa , Fossombrone , Fano , Pesaro , Rimini , about English miles . 
exchanges , for the field of Taginas , the unknown appellation of Ptanias , eight miles from Nocera . 
The signs of antiquity are preserved in the local appellations , Fossato , the camp Capraia , Caprea Bastia , Busta Gallorum . 
and the maps of the ecclesiastical state and the march of Ancona , by Le Maire and Magini . 
Procopius ascribes to Camillus the victory of the Busta Gallorum and his error is branded by Cluverius with the national reproach of Graecorum nugamenta . 
Dog , wilt thou strike thy Lord ? was the more characteristic exclamation of the Gothic youth . 
As soon as Narses had paid his devotions to the Author of victory , and the blessed Virgin , his peculiar patroness , he praised , rewarded , and dismissed the Lombards . 
But the deliverance of Rome was the last calamity of the Roman people . 
The Barbarian allies of Narses too frequently confounded the privileges of peace and war . 
The fate of the senate suggests an awful lesson of the vicissitude of human affairs . 
Ascend six hundred years , and contemplate the kings of the earth soliciting an audience , as the slaves or freedmen of the Roman senate ! Evagrius , l . 
In the year by Belisarius , in by Totila , in by Belisarius , in by Totila , and in by Narses . 
Maltretus had inadvertently translated sextum a mistake which he afterwards retracts out the mischief was done and Cousin , with a train of French and Latin readers , have fallen into the snare . 
which , with some collateral hints from Marcellinus and Jornandes , illustrate the state of the expiring senate . 
a curious picture of a royal slave . 
The Gothic war was yet alive . 
The bravest of the nation retired beyond the Po and Teias was unanimously chosen to succeed and revenge their departed hero . 
But the Goths soon embraced a more generous resolution to descend the hill , to dismiss their horses , and to die in arms , and in the possession of freedom . 
After a combat of many hours , his left arm was fatigued by the weight of twelve javelins which hung from his shield . 
He fell and his head , exalted on a spear , proclaimed to the nations that the Gothic kingdom was no more . 
But the example of his death served only to animate the companions who had sworn to perish with their leader . 
They fought till darkness descended on the earth . 
They reposed on their arms . 
The combat was renewed with the return of light , and maintained with unabated vigor till the evening of the second day . 
They embraced the alternative of residing in Italy , as the subjects and soldiers of Justinian , or departing with a portion of their private wealth , in search of some independent country . 
These hostages were dismissed in safety and their grateful zeal at length subdued the obstinacy of their countrymen . 
has proved from old records , that as early as the year that river was called the Dracontio , or Draconcello . 
Nothing is now left except the name of the town of Lettere . 
already vacant in Juvenal's time , and now in ruins . 
would become ridiculous , if Aeneas were actually in a Greek city . 
There is some difficulty in connecting the th chapter of the fourth book of the Gothic war of Procopius with the first book of the history of Agathias . 
Before Lucca had surrendered , Italy was overwhelmed by a new deluge of Barbarians . 
A feeble youth , the grandson of Clovis , reigned over the Austrasians or oriental Franks . 
The guardians of Theodebald entertained with coldness and reluctance the magnificent promises of the Gothic ambassadors . 
The conqueror of Italy opened a free passage to the irresistible torrent of Barbarians . 
They passed under the walls of Cesena , and answered by threats and reproaches the advice of Aligern , ! that the Gothic treasures could no longer repay the labor of an invasion . 
On the confines of Samnium the two brothers divided their forces . 
With the right wing , Buccelin assumed the spoil of Campania , Lucania , and Bruttium with the left , Lothaire accepted the plunder of Apulia and Calabria . 
They followed the coast of the Mediterranean and the Adriatic , as far as Rhegium and Otranto , and the extreme lands of Italy were the term of their destructive progress . 
The Franks , who were Christians and Catholics , contented themselves with simple pillage and occasional murder . 
Buccelin was actuated by ambition , and Lothaire by avarice . 
The former aspired to restore the Gothic kingdom the latter , after a promise to his brother of speedy succors , returned by the same road to deposit his treasure beyond the Alps . 
Among the fabulous exploits of Buccelin , he discomfited and slew Belisarius , subdued Italy and Sicily , c . 
! Aligern , after the surrender of Cumae , had been sent to Cesent by Narses . 
At Zug , in Switzerland , idolatry still prevailed in the year St . 
Gaul were the apostles of that rude country and the latter founded a hermitage , which has swelled into an ecclesiastical principality and a populous city , the seat of freedom and commerce . 
M. At the entrance of the spring , the Imperial troops , who had guarded the cities , assembled , to the number of eighteen thousand men , in the neighborhood of Rome . 
Their winter hours had not been consumed in idleness . 
The banners of Narses soon approached the Vulturnus , and the eyes of Italy were anxiously fixed on the event of this final contest . 
Perhaps the talents of the Roman general were most conspicuous in the calm operations which precede the tumult of a battle . 
The justice or passion of Narses was awakened he summoned the offender to his presence , and without listening to his excuses , gave the signal to the minister of death . 
If the cruel master had not infringed the laws of his nation , this arbitrary execution was not less unjust than it appears to have been imprudent . 
His troops were disposed in a long front , the cavalry on the wings in the centre , the heavy armed foot the archers and slingers in the rear . 
The Germans advanced in a sharp pointed column , of the form of a triangle or solid wedge . 
They paused , they trembled , their ranks were confounded , and in the decisive moment the Heruli , preferring glory to revenge , charged with rapid violence the head of the column . 
The Greek makes him rave and tear his flesh . 
has produced a Greek epigram of six lines on this victory of Narses , which a favorably compared to the battles of Marathon and Plataea . 
The chief difference is indeed in their consequences so trivial in the former instance so permanent and glorious in the latter . 
must be read or understood Verona and Brixia . 
After a reign of sixty years , the throne of the Gothic kings was filled by the exarchs of Ravenna , the representatives in peace and war of the emperor of the Romans . 
Yet it was not by weak and mischievous indulgence that Narses secured the attachment of his troops . 
Forgetful of the past , and regardless of the future , they abused the present hour of prosperity and peace . 
remained unless to exchange their shields and helmets for the soft lute and the capacious hogshead . 
In a manly oration , not unworthy of a Roman censor , the eunuch reproved these disorderly vices , which sullied their fame , and endangered their safety . 
The civil state of Italy , after the agitation of a long tempest , was fixed by a pragmatic sanction , which the emperor promulgated at the request of the pope . 
Under the exarchs of Ravenna , Rome was degraded to the second rank . 
Justinian might dictate benevolent edicts , and Narses might second his wishes by the restoration of cities , and more especially of churches . 
But the power of kings is most effectual to destroy and the twenty years of the Gothic war had consummated the distress and depopulation of Italy . 
In the first scene of Richard III . 
our English poet has beautifully enlarged on this idea , for which , however , he was not indebted to the Byzantine historian . 
against the common opinion , that the dukes of Italy were instituted before the conquest of the Lombards , by Narses himself . 
Justinian restrains the judices militares . 
See Paulus Diaconus , liii . 
mentions some risings in Italy by the Franks , and Theophanes hints at some Gothic rebellions . 
The Pragmatic Sanction of Justinian , which restores and regulates the civil state of Italy , consists of xxvii . 
A still greater number was consumed by famine in the southern provinces , without the Ionian Gulf . 
Acorns were used in the place of bread . 
Procopius had seen a deserted orphan suckled by a she goat . 
Seventeen passengers were lodged , murdered , and eaten , by two women , who were detected and slain by the eighteenth , c . 
Note Denina considers that greater evil was inflicted upon Italy by the Urocian conquest than by any other invasion . 
M. Quinta regio Piceni est quondam uberrimae multitudinis , ccclx . 
In the time of Vespasian , this ancient population was already diminished . 
Perhaps fifteen or sixteen millions . 
computes that Africa lost five millions , that Italy was thrice as extensive , and that the depopulation was in a larger proportion . 
But his reckoning is inflamed by passion , and clouded with uncertainty . 
I desire to believe , but I dare not affirm , that Belisarius sincerely rejoiced in the triumph of Narses . 
The Barbarians , who annually visited the provinces of Europe , were less discouraged by some accidental defeats , than they were excited by the double hope of spoil and of subsidy . 
In the thirty second winter of Justinian's reign , the Danube was deeply frozen Zabergan led the cavalry of the Bulgarians , and his standard was followed by a promiscuous multitude of Sclavonians . 
Justinian trembled and those who had only seen the emperor in his old age , were pleased to suppose , that he had lost the alacrity and vigor of his youth . 
Zabergan was king of the Cutrigours , a tribe of Huns , who were neither Bulgarians nor Sclavonians . 
who cannot be rejected as a hostile witness . 
The next morning the Bulgarian cavalry advanced to the charge . 
the Bulgarians lost only four hundred horse but Constantinople was saved and Zabergan , who felt the hand of a master , withdrew to a respectful distance . 
But when he entered the palace , the courtiers were silent , and the emperor , after a cold and thankless embrace , dismissed him to mingle with the train of slaves . 
The Bulgarians wasted the summer in the plains of Thrace but they were inclined to peace by the failure of their rash attempts on Greece and the Chersonesus . 
The danger was soon forgotten and a vain question , whether their sovereign had shown more wisdom or weakness , amused the idleness of the city . 
The Bulgarian war , and the last victory of Belisarius , are imperfectly represented in the prolix declamation of Agathias . 
Chapter XLIII Last Victory And Death Of Belisarius , Death Of Justinian . 
About two years after the last victory of Belisarius , the emperor returned from a Thracian journey of health , or business , or devotion . 
Justinian was afflicted by a pain in his head and his private entry countenanced the rumor of his death . 
But the indiscretion of an accomplice saved the poor remnant of the days of Justinian . 
The conspirators were detected and seized , with daggers hidden under their garments Marcellus died by his own hand , and Sergius was dragged from the sanctuary . 
His followers were impatient to fly but flight must have been supported by rebellion , and he had lived enough for nature and for glory . 
Belisarius appeared before the council with less fear than indignation after forty years' service , the emperor had prejudged his guilt and injustice was sanctified by the presence and authority of the patriarch . 
The life of Belisarius was graciously spared but his fortunes were sequestered , and , from December to July , he was guarded as a prisoner in his own palace . 
Such is the simple and genuine narrative of the fall of Belisarius and the ingratitude of Justinian . 
Note Some words , the acts of , or the crimes cf , appear to have false from the text . 
The omission is in all the editions I have consulted . 
seem to hesitate between the obsolete truth and the growing falsehood . 
Lord Mahon has , with considerable learning , and on the authority of a yet unquoted writer of the eleventh century , endeavored to reestablish the old tradition . 
I cannot acknowledge that I have been convinced , and am inclined to subscribe to the theory of Le Beau . 
Yet Tzetzes himself had read in other chronicles , that Belisarius did not lose his sight , and that he recovered his fame and fortunes . 
Note I know not where Gibbon found Tzetzes to be a monk I suppose he considered his bad verses a proof of his monachism . 
Compare to Gerbelius in Kiesling's edition of Tzetzes . 
The resemblance of Justinian to the bust of Domitian , is maliciously urged with the acknowledgment , however , of a well proportioned figure , a ruddy complexion , and a pleasing countenance . 
The design of the African and Italian wars was boldly conceived and executed and his penetration discovered the talents of Belisarius in the camp , of Narses in the palace . 
But the name of the emperor is eclipsed by the names of his victorious generals and Belisarius still lives , to upbraid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign . 
The partial favor of mankind applauds the genius of a conqueror , who leads and directs his subjects in the exercise of arms . 
The characters of Philip the Second and of Justinian are distinguished by the cold ambition which delights in war , and declines the dangers of the field . 
Yet a colossal statue of bronze represented the emperor on horseback , preparing to march against the Persians in the habit and armor of Achilles . 
In the great square before the church of St . 
foolishly believes that only one bust of Domitian had reached the vith century . 
a chain of original testimonies , from Procopius in the vith , to Gyllius in the xvith century . 
I shall conclude this chapter with the comets , the earthquakes , and the plague , which astonished or afflicted the age of Justinian . 
The nations , who gazed with astonishment , expected wars and calamities from their baleful influence and these expectations were abundantly fulfilled . 
The first , which ascends beyond the Christian aera one thousand seven hundred and sixty seven years , is coeval with Ogyges , the father of Grecian antiquity . 
The fourth apparition , forty four years before the birth of Christ , is of all others the most splendid and important . 
The fifth visit has been already ascribed to the fifth year of Justinian , which coincides with the five hundred and thirty first of the Christian aera . 
The seventh phenomenon , of one thousand six hundred and eighty , was presented to the eyes of an enlightened age . 
The philosophy of Bayle dispelled a prejudice which Milton's muse had so recently adorned , that the comet , from its horrid hair shakes pestilence and war . 
Its road in the heavens was observed with exquisite skill by Flamstead and Cassini and the mathematical science of Bernoulli , Newton , and Halley , investigated the laws of its revolutions . 
Yet I strongly suspect their identity . 
The paleness of the sun sum Vandal . 
) is applied by Theophanes to a different year . 
The chapter , however , is imperfect . 
M. Seneca's viith book of Natural Questions displays , in the theory of comets , a philosophic mind . 
Yet should we not too candidly confound a vague prediction , a venient tempus , c . 
, with the merit of real discoveries . 
Astronomers may study Newton and Halley . 
I draw my humble science from the article Comete , in the French Encyclopedie , by M. d'Alembert . 
a prior apparition of the same comet which drowned the earth with its tail . 
affords a happy union of philosophy and erudition . 
who quotes Castor , Dion of Naples , and Adastrus of Cyzicus nobiles mathematici . 
The two subsequent periods are preserved by the Greek mythologists and the spurious books of Sibylline verses . 
has transcribed the original memorial of Augustus . 
This last comet was visible in the month of December , . 
was forced to argue that a supernatural comet would have confirmed the ancients in their idolatry . 
was forced to allow that the tail though not the head , was a sign of the wrath of God . 
betrayed any symptoms of curiosity or fear ? Compare Pingre , Histoire des Cometes . 
The near approach of a comet may injure or destroy the globe which we inhabit but the changes on its surface have been hitherto produced by the action of volcanoes and earthquakes . 
The stroke that agitates an ant hill may crush the insect myriads in the dust yet truth must extort confession that man has industriously labored for his own destruction . 
The institution of great cities , which include a nation within the limits of a wall , almost realizes the wish of Caligula , that the Roman people had but one neck . 
Two hundred and fifty thousand persons are said to have perished in the earthquake of Antioch , whose domestic multitudes were swelled by the conflux of strangers to the festival of the Ascension . 
The loss of Berytus was of smaller account , but of much greater value . 
In these disasters , the architect becomes the enemy of mankind . 
Note Compare Daubeny on Earthquakes , and Lyell's Geology , vol . 
Its poor representative , the village of Patrone , is now destitute of a harbor . 
as an essential part of the history of the Roman law . 
suspends the earthquake till he has achieved the Italian war . 
Aethiopia and Egypt have been stigmatized , in every age , as the original source and seminary of the plague . 
The infection was sometimes announced by the visions of a distempered fancy , and the victim despaired as soon as he had heard the menace and felt the stroke of an invisible spectre . 
If they came to a just swelling and suppuration , the patient was saved by this kind and natural discharge of the morbid humor . 
But if they continued hard and dry , a mortification quickly ensued , and the fifth day was commonly the term of his life . 
To pregnant women the plague was generally mortal yet one infant was drawn alive from his dead mother , and three mothers survived the loss of their infected foetus . 
During his sickness , the public consternation was expressed in the habits of the citizens and their idleness and despondence occasioned a general scarcity in the capital of the East . 
I have read with pleasure Mead's short , but elegant , treatise concerning Pestilential Disorders , the viiith edition , London , . 
is satisfied that Procopius must have studied physic , from his knowledge and use of the technical words . 
Yet many words that are now scientific were common and popular in the Greek idiom . 
Duker , and the poetical description of the same plague by Lucretius . 
I was indebted to Dr . 
which was pronounced in St . 
Mark's Library by Fabius Paullinus Utinensis , a physician and philosopher . 
I observe , that on this head physicians are divided and the nature and operation of the disease may not always be similar . 
Contagion is the inseparable symptom of the plague which , by mutual respiration , is transfused from the infected persons to the lungs and stomach of those who approach them . 
While philosophers believe and tremble , it is singular , that the existence of a real danger should have been denied by a people most prone to vain and imaginary terrors . 
The winds might diffuse that subtile venom but unless the atmosphere be previously disposed for its reception , the plague would soon expire in the cold or temperate climates of the earth . 
Such was the universal corruption of the air , that the pestilence which burst forth in the fifteenth year of Justinian was not checked or alleviated by any difference of the seasons . 
No facts have been preserved to sustain an account , or even a conjecture , of the numbers that perished in this extraordinary mortality . 
the contrary opinion of the French physicians who visited Marseilles in the year . 
The strong assertions of Procopius are overthrown by the subsequent experience of Evagrius . 
After some figures of rhetoric , the sands of the sea , c . 
attempts a more definite account that it had been exterminated under the reign of the Imperial demon . 
translate this passage , two hundred millions but I am ignorant of their motives . 
The remaining myriad of myriads , would furnish one hundred millions , a number not wholly inadmissible . 
Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
Part I. Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
The Laws Of The Kings The Twelve Of The Decemvirs . 
The Laws Of The People . 
The Decrees Of The Senate . 
The Edicts Of The Magistrates And Emperors Authority Of The Civilians . 
Code , Pandects , Novels , And Institutes Of Justinian I. Rights Of Persons . 
The History of the Roman Law , by Professor Hugo , in the French translation of M. Jourdan . 
Savigny , Geschichte des Romischen Rechts im Mittelalter , bande , Heidelberg , . 
Walther , Romische Rechts Geschichte , Bonn . 
Wise or fortunate is the prince who connects his own reputation with the honor or interest of a perpetual order of men . 
The defence of their founder is the first cause , which in every age has exercised the zeal and industry of the civilians . 
They piously commemorate his virtues dissemble or deny his failings and fiercely chastise the guilt or folly of the rebels , who presume to sully the majesty of the purple . 
has refused all praise and merit to the prince , his ministers , and his laws . 
The civilians of the darker ages have established an absurd and incomprehensible mode of quotation , which is supported by authority and custom . 
wishes to shake off this pendantic yoke and I have dared to adopt the simple and rational method of numbering the book , the title , and the law . 
Note The example of Gibbor has been followed by M Hugo and other civilians . 
M Germany , Bohemia , Hungary , Poland , and Scotland , have received them as common law or reason in France , Italy , c . 
That of Arthur Duck is but an insignificant performance . 
But the researches of the learned have thrown much light upon the matter . 
a Collection of Memoirs , printed at Brussels in to . 
, , among which should be distinguished those of M. de Berg . 
M. Berriat Saint Prix has given us hopes of the speedy appearance of a work in which he will discuss this question , especially in relation to France . 
M. Spangenberg , in his Introduction to the Study of the Corpus Juris Civilis Hanover , , vol . 
, , gives us a general sketch of the history of the Roman law in different parts of Europe . 
We cannot avoid mentioning an elementary work by M. Hugo , in which he treats of the History of the Roman Law from Justinian to the present Time , d edit . 
Berlin W. Francis Hottoman , a learned and acute lawyer of the xvith century , wished to mortify Cujacius , and to please the Chancellor de l'Hopital . 
Note Though there have always been many detractors of the Roman law , no sect of Anti Tribonians has ever existed under that name , as Gibbon seems to suppose . 
His ample works have been collected in eight volumes in to . 
The treatises which I have separately used are , . 
Historia Juris Romani et Germanici , Lugd . 
Syntagma Antiquitatum Romanam Jurisprudentiam illustrantium , vols . 
Elementa Juris Civilis secundum Ordinem Institutionum , Lugd . 
Elementa J. C. secundum Ordinem Pandectarum Traject . 
The primitive government of Rome was composed , with some political skill , of an elective king , a council of nobles , and a general assembly of the people . 
Romulus , Numa , and Servius Tullius , are celebrated as the most ancient legislators and each of them claims his peculiar part in the threefold division of jurisprudence . 
The law of nations and of religious worship , which Numa introduced , was derived from his nocturnal converse with the nymph Egeria . 
who sometimes betrays the character of a rhetorician and a Greek . 
To these I would add A. W. Schlegel's Review of Niebuhr , and my friend Dr . 
Arnold's recently published volume , of which the chapter on the Law of the XII . 
Tables appears to me one of the most valuable , if not the most valuable , chapter . 
and is reluctantly admitted by Mascou , his German editor . 
It is certainly unnecessary to increase the confusion which already prevails among modern writers on the true sense of these ideas . 
give credit to this tale of Pomponius , without sufficiently adverting to the value and rarity of such a monument of the third century , of the illiterate city . 
Note Niebuhr considers the Jus Papirianum , adduced by Verrius Fiaccus , to be of undoubted authenticity . 
M. Compare this with the work of M. Hugo . 
W. A pompous , though feeble attempt to restore the original , is made in the Histoire de la Jurisprudence Romaine of Terasson , p . 
, Paris , , in folio a work of more promise than performance . 
In the year , seven or eight tables of brass were dug up between Cortona and Gubio . 
The Roman idiom , by an infusion of Doric and Aeolic Greek , was gradually ripened into the style of the xii . 
See the works of Lanzi , Passeri , Dempster , and O. Muller . 
They were dictated by the rigid and jealous spirit of an aristocracy , which had yielded with reluctance to the just demands of the people . 
The colonies of Great Greece had transported and improved the arts of their mother country . 
Cumae and Rhegium , Crotona and Tarentum , Agrigentum and Syracuse , were in the rank of the most flourishing cities . 
But the Athenian monuments are silent nor will it seem credible that the patricians should undertake a long and perilous navigation to copy the purest model of democracy . 
But in all the great lines of public and private jurisprudence , the legislators of Rome and Athens appear to be strangers or adverse at each other . 
How concise and animated is the Roman how prolix and lifeless the Greek ! Yet he has admirably judged the masters , and defined the rules , of historical composition . 
Wood , brass , and ivory , might be successively employed . 
Note Compare Niebuhr , vol . 
M. Compare Niebuhr , , note . 
M. It is a most important question whether the twelve tables in fact include laws imported from Greece . 
The negative opinion maintained by our author , is now almost universally adopted , particularly by Mm . 
Niebuhr , Hugo , and others . 
See my Institutiones Juris Romani privati Leodii , , p . 
, seems to incline to the opposite opinion . 
Compare some just and sensible observations in the Appendix to Mr. Travers Twiss's Epitome of Niebuhr , p . 
He contents himself with expressing his astonishment that M. Bonamy will be receive it as genuine . 
W. This intricate subject of the Sicilian and Roman money , is ably discussed by Dr . 
whose powers in this controversy were called forth by honor and resentment . 
Their voyages to Cumae , c . 
, are noticed by Livy and Dionysius . 
is celebrated long afterwards as the author of the policy of Thurium . 
into the most virtuous and orderly of the Greek republics . 
I seize the opportunity of tracing the progress of this national intercourse . 
though tacitly denied by Livy . 
A bold prediction before the end of the first Punic war ! Note Compare Niebuhr throughout . 
arguing from this prediction , and on the other conclusive grounds , that the Lycophron , the author of the Cassandra , is not the Alexandrian poet . 
He had been anticipated in this sagacious criticism , as he afterwards discovered , by a writer of no less distinction than Charles James Fox . 
And likewise by the author of the extraordinary translation of this poem , that most promising scholar , Lord Royston . 
See the Remains of Lord Royston , by the Rev . 
Henry Pepys , London , . 
Note Are not the same points of similarity discovered in the legislation of all actions in the infancy of their civilization ? W. Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
The study is recommended by Cicero as equally pleasant and instructive . 
The Decemvirs had neglected to import the sanction of Zaleucus , which so long maintained the integrity of his republic . 
It is the praise of Diodorus , tom . 
I have followed the restoration of the xii . 
Note The wish expressed by Warnkonig , that the text and the conjectural emendations on the fragments of the xii . 
tables should be submitted to rigid criticism , has been fulfilled by Dirksen , Uebersicht der bisherigen Versuche Leipzig Kritik und Herstellung des Textes der Zwolf Tafel Fragmente , Leipzug , . 
This deep disquisition fills only two pages , but they are the pages of Tacitus . 
had complained , in hoc immenso aliarum super alias acervatarum legum cumulo , c . 
Suetonius in Vespasiano , c . 
Cicero ad Familiares , viii . 
The Decemvirs had been named , and their tables were approved , by an assembly of the centuries , in which riches preponderated against numbers . 
But the tribunes soon established a more specious and popular maxim , that every citizen has an equal right to enact the laws which he is bound to obey . 
A new method of secret ballot abolished the influence of fear and shame , of honor and interest , and the abuse of freedom accelerated the progress of anarchy and despotism . 
The Romans had aspired to be equal they were levelled by the equality of servitude and the dictates of Augustus were patiently ratified by the formal consent of the tribes or centuries . 
Once , and once only , he experienced a sincere and strenuous opposition . 
His subjects had resigned all political liberty they defended the freedom of domestic life . 
represent the , asses by , Attic drachmae , or somewhat more than pounds sterling . 
nor do I see any reason to reject these consequences , which moderate our ideas of the poverty of the first Romans . 
Note Compare Niebuhr , English translation , vol . 
M. Consult the common writers on the Roman Comitia , especially Sigonius and Beaufort . 
shows , on a curious medal , the Cista , Pontes , Septa , Diribitor , c . 
debates this constitutional question , and assigns to his brother Quintus the most unpopular side . 
Prae tumultu recusantium perferre non potuit , See Propertius , l . 
Lipsius , Excursus E. in Tacitum . 
Note This error of Gibbon has been long detected . 
The senate , under Tiberius did indeed elect the magistrates , who before that emperor were elected in the comitia . 
But we find laws enacted by the people during his reign , and that of Claudius . 
For example the Julia Norbana , Vellea , and Claudia de tutela foeminarum . 
du Droit Romain , by M. Hugo , vol . 
The comitia ceased imperceptibly as the republic gradually expired . 
Note The author adopts the opinion , that under the emperors alone the senate had a share in the legislative power . 
They had nevertheless participated in it under the Republic , since senatus consulta relating to civil rights have been preserved , which are much earlier than the reigns of Augustus or Tiberius . 
Bach has clearly demonstrated that the senate had the same power in the time of the Republic . 
Compare the discussions of M. Hugo , vol . 
W. The silence or ambiguity of the laws was supplied by the occasional edicts ! of those magistrates who were invested with the honors of the state . 
! There is a curious passage from Aurelius , a writer on Law , on the Praetorian Praefect , quoted in Lydus de Magistratibus , p . 
The Praetorian praefect was to the emperor what the master of the horse was to the dictator under the Republic . 
He was the delegate , therefore , of the full Imperial authority and no appeal could be made or exception taken against his edicts . 
I had not observed this passage , when the third volume , where it would have been more appropriately placed , passed through the press . 
who drops the important word honorarium . 
For this reason he represents the edicts of the praetors as absurd . 
But Heineccius had altogether a false notion of this important institution of the Romans , to which we owe in a great degree the perfection of their jurisprudence . 
After Ritter , the learned Bach undertook to vindicate the edicts of the praetors in his Historia Jurisprud . 
But it remained for a civilian of our own days to throw light on the spirit and true character of this institution . 
M. Hugo has completely demonstrated that the praetorian edicts furnished the salutary means of perpetually harmonizing the legislation with the spirit of the times . 
The praetors were the true organs of public opinion . 
It was not according to their caprice that they framed their regulations , but according to the manners and to the opinions of the great civil lawyers of their day . 
We know from Cicero himself , that it was esteemed a great honor among the Romans to publish an edict , well conceived and well drawn . 
Those who had reason to fear his opinions might delay their cause till the following year . 
The praetor was responsible for all the faults which he committed . 
The tribunes could lodge an accusation against the praetor who issued a partial edict . 
The praetor was obliged to submit to his own edict , and to judge his own affairs according to its provisions . 
These magistrates had no power of departing from the fundamental laws , or the laws of the Twelve Tables . 
They must therefore be considered as the basis of all the Roman jurisprudence comprehended in the Digest of Justinian . 
See the History of the Roman Law by M. Hugo , vol . 
, and the note in my elementary book on the Industries , p . 
With regard to the works best suited to give information on the framing and the form of these edicts , see Haubold , Institutiones Literariae , tom . 
All that Heineccius says about the usurpation of the right of making these edicts by the praetors is false , and contrary to all historical testimony . 
A multitude of authorities proves that the magistrates were under an obligation to publish these edicts . 
W. With the utmost deference for these excellent civilians , I cannot but consider this confusion of the judicial and legislative authority as a very perilous constitutional precedent . 
Geschichte des Romischen Rechts im Mittelalter . 
fixes the perpetual edicts in the year of Rome , . 
Their institution , however , is ascribed to the year in the Acta Diurna , which have been published from the papers of Ludovicus Vives . 
in whose researches I might safely acquiesce . 
In the Academy of Inscriptions , M. Bouchaud has given a series of memoirs to this interesting subject of law and literature . 
Note This restoration was only the commencement of a work found among the papers of Heineccius , and published after his death . 
G. Note Gibbon has here fallen into an error , with Heineccius , and almost the whole literary world , concerning the real meaning of what is called the perpetual edict of Hadrian . 
Since the Cornelian law , the edicts were perpetual , but only in this sense , that the praetor could not change them during the year of his magistracy . 
we have no sufficient proof to admit the common opinion , that the Praetorian edict was declared perpetually unalterable by Hadrian . 
speak of the edict as it existed in the time of Cicero . 
They would not certainly have passed over in silence so remarkable a change in the most important source of the civil law . 
M. Hugo has conclusively shown that the various passages in authors , like Eutropius , are not sufficient to establish the opinion introduced by Heineccius . 
Nevertheless , if it had taken place , he must have noticed it , as he does l . 
, the responsa prudentum , on the occasion of a rescript of Hadrian . 
There is no lacuna in the text . 
The latter lawyers appear to follow , in their commentaries , the same texts as their predecessors . 
We nowhere find that the jurists of the Pandects disputed concerning the words , or the drawing up of the edict . 
Adrian appears to have been the first who assumed , without disguise , the plenitude of legislative power . 
And this innovation , so agreeable to his active mind , was countenanced by the patience of the times , and his long absence from the seat of government . 
A similar dependence was implied in the decrees of the senate , which , in every reign , defined the titles and powers of an elective magistrate . 
Disdaining the language of flattery , the historian may confess , that in questions of private jurisprudence , the absolute sovereign of a great empire can seldom be influenced by any personal considerations . 
The tyrant of Rome was sometimes the benefactor of the provinces . 
A dagger terminated the crimes of Domitian but the prudence of Nerva confirmed his acts , which , in the joy of their deliverance , had been rescinded by an indignant senate . 
Yet in the rescripts , replies to the consultations of the magistrates , the wisest of princes might be deceived by a partial exposition of the case . 
And this abuse , which placed their hasty decisions on the same level with mature and deliberate acts of legislation , was ineffectually condemned by the sense and example of Trajan . 
The two first , of which some fragments have escaped , were framed by two private lawyers , to preserve the constitutions of the Pagan emperors from Adrian to Constantine . 
But the three codes obtained an equal authority in the tribunals and any act which was not included in the sacred deposit might be disregarded by the judge as epurious or obsolete . 
It is an important question in what manner the emperors were invested with this legislative power . 
The newly discovered Gaius distinctly states that it was in virtue of a law Nec unquam dubitatum est , quin id legis vicem obtineat , cum ipse imperator per legem imperium accipiat . 
du Droit Romain , vol . 
M. His laws are the first in the code . 
who wanders from the subject in confused reading and feeble paradox . 
Note This is again an error which Gibbon shares with Heineccius , and the generality of authors . 
M. Hugo justly observes , that the acta of Sylla , approved by the senate , were the same thing with the constitutions of those who after him usurped the sovereign power . 
Moreover , we find that Pliny , and other ancient authors , report a multitude of rescripts of the emperors from the time of Augustus . 
du Droit Romain , vol . 
He proceeds to praise the recent firmness of Severus , who repealed the useless or pernicious laws , without any regard to their age or authority . 
On this occasion , his editor , Reimer , joins the universal censure which freedom and criticism have pronounced against that slavish historian . 
was still more recent than the thing . 
The slaves of Commodus or Caracalla would have started at the name of royalty . 
Note Yet a century before , Domitian was called not only by Martial but even in public documents , Dominus et Deus Noster . 
He has made a proper use of two dissertations by John Frederic Gronovius and Noodt , both translated , with valuable notes , by Barbeyrac , vols . 
Note Gaius asserts that the Imperial edict or rescript has and always had , the force of law , because the Imperial authority rests upon law . 
Constitutio principis est , quod imperator decreto vel edicto , vel epistola constituit , nee unquam dubitatum , quin id legis , vicem obtineat , cum ipse imperator per legem imperium accipiat . 
M. Theophilus , in Paraphras . 
Reitz For his person , time , writings , see the Theophilus of J. H. Mylius , Excurs . 
Nefas esse leges videri Commodi et Caracalla at hominum imperitorum voluntates . 
Yet he occurs only twice in the Pandects . 
Of Antoninus Caracalla alone constitutions are extant in the Code , and with his father . 
The emperors reluctantly allow some scrutiny into the law and the fact , some delay , petition , c . 
but these insufficient remedies are too much in the discretion and at the peril of the judge . 
Savigny states the following as the authorities for the Roman law at the commencement of the fifth century . 
The writings of the jurists , according to the regulations of the Constitution of Valentinian III . 
, first promulgated in the West , but by its admission into the Theodosian Code established likewise in the East . 
The Gregorian and Hermogenian Collection of the Imperial Rescripts . 
The Code of Theodosius II . 
The particular Novellae , as additions and Supplements to this Code Savigny . 
M. Schulting , Jurisprudentia Ante Justinianea , p . 
Cujacius assigned to Gregory the reigns from Hadrian to Gallienus . 
and the continuation to his fellow laborer Hermogenes . 
This general division may be just , but they often trespassed on each other's ground Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
Among savage nations , the want of letters is imperfectly supplied by the use of visible signs , which awaken attention , and perpetuate the remembrance of any public or private transaction . 
This occult science of the words and actions of law was the inheritance of the pontiffs and patricians . 
may state an ideal case , but St . 
Note In this passage the author has endeavored to collect all the examples of judicial formularies which he could find . 
That which he adduces as the form of cretio haereditatis is absolutely false . 
It is sufficient to glance at the passage in Cicero which he cites , to see that it has no relation to it . 
See in Gaius the form of cretio haereditatis Inst . 
is supported by the evidence of Aristophanes , his scholiast , and Pollux . 
Note Nothing more is known of this ceremony nevertheless we find that already in his own days Gaius turned it into ridicule . 
prohibiti actio quadrupli ex edicto praetoris introducta est lex autem eo nomine nullam poenam constituit . 
Hoc solum praecepit , ut qui quaerere velit , nudus quaerat , linteo cinctus , lancem habens qui si quid invenerit . 
jubet id lex furtum manifestum esse . 
Quid sit autem linteum ? quaesitum est . 
Sed verius est consuti genus esse , quo necessariae partes tegerentur . 
Quare lex tota ridicula est . 
Certe non dubitatur , cujuscunque materiae sit ea lanx , satis legi fieri . 
We see moreover , from this passage , that the basin , as most authors , resting on the authority of Festus , have supposed , was not used to cover the figure . 
W. Gibbon says the face , though equally inaccurately . 
This passage of Gaius , I must observe , as well as others in M. Warnkonig's work , is very inaccurately printed . 
Note Gibbon had conceived opinions too decided against the forms of procedure in use among the Romans . 
Yet it is on these solemn forms that the certainty of laws has been founded among all nations . 
Those of the Romans were very intimately allied with the ancient religion , and must of necessity have disappeared as Rome attained a higher degree of civilization . 
W. This work of M. Savigny has been translated into English by Mr. Hayward . 
M. A more liberal art was cultivated , however , by the sage of Rome , who , in a stricter sense , may be considered as the authors of the civil law . 
Pride and ignorance contributed , during the first period , to confine within narrow limits the science of the Roman law . 
The second period , the learned and splendid age of jurisprudence , may be extended from the birth of Cicero to the reign of Severus Alexander . 
A system was formed , schools were instituted , books were composed , and both the living and the dead became subservient to the instruction of the student . 
The tripartite of Aelius Paetus , surnamed Catus , or the Cunning , was preserved as the oldest work of Jurisprudence . 
Their names , and the various titles of their productions , have been minutely preserved , and the example of Labeo may suggest some idea of their diligence and fecundity . 
That eminent lawyer of the Augustan age divided the year between the city and country , between business and composition and four hundred books are enumerated as the fruit of his retirement . 
Of the collection of his rival Capito , the two hundred and fifty ninth book is expressly quoted and few teachers could deliver their opinions in less than a century of volumes . 
In the third period , between the reigns of Alexander and Justinian , the oracles of jurisprudence were almost mute . 
From the slow advances and rapid decay of these legal studies , it may be inferred , that they require a state of peace and refinement . 
! Compare , on the Responsa Prudentum , Warnkonig , Histoire Externe du Droit Romain Bruxelles , , p . 
afford much genuine and pleasing information . 
Agricolam laudat juris legumque peritus Sub galli cantum , consultor ubi ostia pulsat . 
Romae dulce diu fuit et solemne , reclusa Mane domo vigilare , clienti promere jura . 
Note It is particularly in this division of the history of the Roman jurisprudence into epochs , that Gibbon displays his profound knowledge of the laws of this people . 
The Scaevolas had been taught by use and experience but Servius Sulpicius was the first civilian who established his art on a certain and general theory . 
From these philosophical mysteries , he mildly excludes the sceptics who refuse to believe , and the epicureans who are unwilling to act . 
The latter disdain the care of the republic he advises them to slumber in their shady gardens . 
But he humbly entreats that the new academy would be silent , since her bold objections would too soon destroy the fair and well ordered structure of his lofty system . 
Plato , Aristotle , and Zeno , he represents as the only teachers who arm and instruct a citizen for the duties of social life . 
Of these , the armor of the stoics was found to be of the firmest temper and it was chiefly worn , both for use and ornament , in the schools of jurisprudence . 
M. Hugo thinks that the ingenious system of the Institutes adopted by a great number of the ancient lawyers , and by Justinian himself , dates from Severus Sulpicius . 
Hist du Droit Romain , vol . 
might have learned how firmly Cicero believed in the specious doctrines which he has adorned . 
Perhaps he was not constant or sincere in his new sect . 
Note Gibbon had entirely misunderstood this phrase of Cicero . 
It was only since his time that the real meaning of the author was apprehended . 
This explanation , already conjectured by G. Menage , Amaenit . 
, is found in the dictionary of Scheller , v . 
Familia , and in the History of the Roman Law by M. Hugo . 
and the ineffectual cavils of Mascou . 
quotes and approves a dissertation of Everard Otto , de Stoica Jurisconsultorum Philosophia . 
The patrician arts were long protected by the veil of mystery and in more enlightened times , the freedom of inquiry established the general principles of jurisprudence . 
de Oratore , Topica , pro Murena . 
The proofs which appear to confirm it are l . 
, , D. I. , and . 
The first of these passages speaks expressly of a privilege granted to certain lawyers , until the time of Adrian , publice respondendi jus ante Augusti tempora non dabatur . 
Primus Divus Augustus , ut major juris auctoritas haberetur , constituit , ut ex auctoritate ejus responderent . 
The passage of the Institutes speaks of the different opinions of those , quibus est permissum jura condere . 
It is true that the first of these passages does not say that the opinion of these privileged lawyers had the force of a law for the judges . 
For this reason M. Hugo altogether rejects the opinion adopted by Heineccius , by Bach , and in general by all the writers who preceded him . 
He conceives that the of the Institutes referred to the constitution of Valentinian III . 
, which regulated the respective authority to be ascribed to the different writings of the great civilians . 
I do not know , how in opposition to this passage , the opinion of M. Hugo can be maintained . 
Their opinion had sometimes the force of law , legis vicem . 
It appears to me almost indisputable , that the emperors had sanctioned certain provisions relative to the authority of these civilians , consulted by the judges . 
But how far was their advice to be respected ? This is a question which it is impossible to answer precisely , from the want of historic evidence . 
Our author not being acquainted with the opinions opposed to Heineccius has not gone to the bottom of the subject . 
W. The most absolute mandate could only require that the judges should agree with the civilians , if the civilians agreed among themselves . 
Their legal studies were influenced by the various colors of their temper and principles . 
Labeo was attached to the form of the old republic his rival embraced the more profitable substance of the rising monarchy . 
By the perpetual edict , the controversies of the sects were in a great measure determined . 
For that important work , the emperor Adrian preferred the chief of the Sabinians the friends of monarchy prevailed but the moderation of Salvius Julian insensibly reconciled the victors and the vanquished . 
Like the contemporary philosophers , the lawyers of the age of the Antonines disclaimed the authority of a master , and adopted from every system the most probable doctrines . 
But their writings would have been less voluminous , had their choice been more unanimous . 
An indulgent edict of the younger Theodosius excused him from the labor of comparing and weighing their arguments . 
a learned treatise on a narrow and barren ground . 
who accuses his rival of libertas nimia et vecors . 
has commemorated this weighty dispute , and the verses of Homer that were alleged on either side as legal authorities . 
since , in a simple exchange , the buyer could not be discriminated from the seller . 
assign a more natural reason . 
Fourteen years is the age . 
See the vestigia of the sects in Mascou , c . 
The series and conclusion of the sects are described by Mascou , c . 
) and it would be almost ridiculous to praise his equal justice to these obsolete sects . 
Note The work of Gaius , subsequent to the time of Adrian , furnishes us with some information on this subject . 
The disputes which rose between these two sects appear to have been very numerous . 
Gaius avows himself a disciple of Sabinus and of Caius . 
styles the praefect or bailiff of Rome sanctissimus legum interpres . 
From his science , says the old scholiast , he was called , not a man , but a book . 
He derived the singular name of Pegasus from the galley which his father commanded . 
Mascou , de Sectis , c . 
de Herciscundis , a legal term which was applied to these eclectic lawyers herciscere is synonymous to dividere . 
Note This word has never existed . 
Cujacius is the author of it , who read me words terris condi in Servius ad Virg . 
herciscundi , to which he gave an erroneous interpretation . 
W. See the Theodosian Code , l . 
with Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
Yet a legislator might give that opinion , however false , the validity , not of truth , but of law . 
some interesting information as to the framing of the Theodosian Code , and its ratification at Rome , in the year . 
of the sitting of the senate at Rome , in which the Code was published , in the year after the marriage of Valentinian III . 
All laws either abrogated or fallen into disuse were to be noted under their proper heads . 
An Ordinance was issued in to form a commission for this purpose of nine persons , of which Antiochus , as quaestor and praefectus , was president . 
A second commission of sixteen members was issued in under the same president . 
Before it was published in the West , Valentinian submitted it to the senate . 
There is a report of the proceedings of the senate , which closed with loud acclamations and gratulations . 
From Warnkonig , Histoire du Droit Romain , p . 
Wenck has published this work , Codicis Theodosiani libri priores . 
M. Note Closius of Tubingen communicated to M. Warnkonig the two following constitutions of the emperor Constantine , which he discovered in the Ambrosian library at Milan . 
Perpetuas prudentum contentiones eruere cupientes , Ulpiani ac Pauli , in Papinianum notas , qui dum ingenii laudem sectantur , non tam corrigere eum quam depravere maluerunt , aboleri praecepimus . 
Universa , quae scriptura Pauli continentur , recepta auctoritate firmanda runt , et omni veneratione celebranda . 
Ideoque sententiarum libros plepissima luce et perfectissima elocutione et justissima juris ratione succinctos in judiciis prolatos valere minimie dubitatur . 
W Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
When Justinian ascended the throne , the reformation of the Roman jurisprudence was an arduous but indispensable task . 
In the space of ten centuries , the infinite variety of laws and legal opinions had filled many thousand volumes , which no fortune could purchase and no capacity could digest . 
Books could not easily be found and the judges , poor in the midst of riches , were reduced to the exercise of their illiterate discretion . 
The theory of professors was assisted by the practice of advocates , and the experience of magistrates and the whole undertaking was animated by the spirit of Tribonian . 
The reproaches of impiety and avarice have stained the virtue or the reputation of Tribonian . 
His avarice was more clearly proved and more sensibly felt . 
His passive and dutiful submission had been honored with the praise of Justinian himself , whose vanity was incapable of discerning how often that submission degenerated into the grossest adulation . 
After these original testimonies , I have consulted , among the moderns , Heineccius , Terasson . 
works hard , very hard , to whitewash the blackamoor . 
I apply the two passages of Suidas to the same man every circumstance so exactly tallies . 
Such flattery is incredible ! Nihil est quod credere de se Non possit , cum laudatur Diis aequa potestas . 
has ridiculed the impudence of the modest Virgil . 
The work was accomplished in fourteen months and the twelve books or tables , which the new decemvirs produced , might be designed to imitate the labors of their Roman predecessors . 
A more arduous operation was still behind to extract the spirit of jurisprudence from the decisions and conjectures , the questions and disputes , of the Roman civilians . 
Seventeen lawyers , with Tribonian at their head , were appointed by the emperor to exercise an absolute jurisdiction over the works of their predecessors . 
The edition of this great work was delayed a month after that of the Institutes and it seemed reasonable that the elements should precede the digest of the Roman law . 
The Digesta of Scaevola , Marcellinus , Celsus , were already familiar to the civilians but Justinian was in the wrong when he used the two appellations as synonymous . 
Note The word was formerly in common use . 
civilians quoted in the Pandects a learned , and for his times , an extraordinary list . 
is said to have added fifty four names but they must be vague or second hand references . 
was fearful of encountering the light of freedom and the gravity of Roman sages . 
But the ministers of Justinian , were instructed to labor , not for the curiosity of antiquarians , but for the immediate benefit of his subjects . 
The science of the laws is the slow growth of time and experience , and the advantage both of method and materials , is naturally assumed by the most recent authors . 
The choice of the authorities that compose the Pandects depended on the judgment of Tribonian but the power of his sovereign could not absolve him from the sacred obligations of truth and fidelity . 
justifies the choice of Tribonian , against the passionate charges of Francis Hottoman and his sectaries . 
Strip away the crust of Tribonian , and allow for the use of technical words , and the Latin of the Pandects will be found not unworthy of the silver age . 
It has been vehemently attacked by Laurentius Valla , a fastidious grammarian of the xvth century , and by his apologist Floridus Sabinus . 
Since his time , this truth has been recognized by men of the highest eminence , such as Erasmus , David Hume and Runkhenius . 
W. Nomina quidem veteribus servavimus , legum autem veritatem nostram fecimus . 
A frank confession ! Note Seditiosum , in the language of Justinian , means not seditious , but discounted . 
who poorly maintains the right of Justinian and the duty of Tribonian . 
Without usurping an office so invidious , the emperor might safely commit to ignorance and time the accomplishments of this destructive wish . 
Even the Pandects themselves have escaped with difficulty and danger from the common shipwreck , and criticism has pronounced that all the editions and manuscripts of the West are derived from one original . 
Eight of the Augustan sages were reduced to a compendium of Cascellius , scripta non extant sed unus liber , c . 
of Trebatius , minus frequentatur of Tubero , libri parum grati sunt . 
All , in several instances , repeat the errors of the scribe and the transpositions of some leaves in the Florentine Pandects . 
This fact , if it be true , is decisive . 
It is composed of two quarto volumes , with large margins , on a thin parchment , and the Latin characters betray the band of a Greek scribe . 
Brenckman , at the end of his history , has inserted two dissertations on the republic of Amalphi , and the Pisan war in the year , c . 
without a name or a date . 
examines and rejects the whole story . 
M. Pisa was taken by the Florentines in the year and in the Pandects were transported to the capital . 
These events are authentic and famous . 
Henry Brenckman , a Dutchman , undertook a pilgrimage to Florence , where he employed several years in the study of a single manuscript . 
though a monument of industry , is a small portion of his original design . 
It is the first care of a reformer to prevent any future reformation . 
Every year , or , according to Procopius , each day , of his long reign , was marked by some legal innovation . 
A line of Milton or Tasso would surprise us in an act of parliament . 
Quae omnia obtinere sancimus in omne aevum . 
Of the first Code , he says , in aeternum valiturum . 
Montesquieu , Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains , c . 
On this occasion he throws aside the gown and cap of a President a Mortier . 
For the general repeal of these mischievous indulgences , see Novel . 
Monarchs seldom condescend to become the preceptors of their subjects and some praise is due to Justinian , by whose command an ample system was reduced to a short and elementary treatise . 
Among the various institutes of the Roman law , those of Caius were the most popular in the East and West and their use may be considered as an evidence of their merit . 
They were selected by the Imperial delegates , Tribonian , Theophilus , and Dorotheus and the freedom and purity of the Antonines was incrusted with the coarser materials of a degenerate age . 
The Institutes of Justinian are divided into four books they proceed , with no contemptible method , from , I. Persons , to , II . 
Things , and from things , to , III . 
Actions and the article IV . 
, of Private Wrongs , is terminated by the principles of Criminal Law . 
Lactantius , in his Institutes of Christianity , an elegant and specious work , proposes to imitate the title and method of the civilians . 
Such as Ulpian , Paul , Florentinus , Marcian . 
The emperor Justinian calls him suum , though he died before the end of the second century . 
His Institutes are quoted by Servius , Boethius , Priscian , c . 
and the Epitome by Arrian is still extant . 
Gibbon , dividing the Institutes into four parts , considers the appendix of the criminal law in the last title as a fourth part . 
W. Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
The distinction of ranks and persons is the firmest basis of a mixed and limited government . 
In France , the remains of liberty are kept alive by the spirit , the honors , and even the prejudices , of fifty thousand nobles . 
Two hundred families ! supply , in lineal descent , the second branch of English legislature , which maintains , between the king and commons , the balance of the constitution . 
A gradation of patricians and plebeians , of strangers and subjects , has supported the aristocracy of Genoa , Venice , and ancient Rome . 
In the decline of the Roman empire , the proud distinctions of the republic were gradually abolished , and the reason or instinct of Justinian completed the simple form of an absolute monarchy . 
The emperor could not eradicate the popular reverence which always waits on the possession of hereditary wealth , or the memory of famous ancestors . 
But in the eye of the law , all Roman citizens were equal , and all subjects of the empire were citizens of Rome . 
That inestimable character was degraded to an obsolete and empty name . 
See the Annales Politiques de l'Abbe de St . 
who dates in the year . 
The most ancient families claim the immemorial possession of arms and fiefs . 
Since the Crusades , some , the most truly respectable , have been created by the king , for merit and services . 
The recent and vulgar crowd is derived from the multitude of venal offices without trust or dignity , which continually ennoble the wealthy plebeians . 
These legal prices are generally below those of the market . 
For the state of slaves and freedmen , see Institutes , l . 
Pandects or Digest , l . 
, and the whole of the xlth book . 
Be it henceforward understood that , with the original text of the Institutes and Pandects , the correspondent articles in the Antiquities and Elements of Heineccius are implicitly quoted and with the xxvii . 
The law of nature instructs most animals to cherish and educate their infant progeny . 
The law of reason inculcates to the human species the returns of filial piety . 
The paternal power was instituted or confirmed by Romulus himself and , after the practice of three centuries , it was inscribed on the fourth table of the Decemvirs . 
At the call of indigence or avarice , the master of a family could dispose of his children or his slaves . 
Jus potestatis quod in liberos habemus proprium est civium Romanorum . 
Nulli enim alii sunt homines , qui talem in liberos habeant potestatem qualem nos habemus . 
Note The newly discovered Institutes of Gaius name one nation in which the same power was vested in the parent . 
Nec me praeterit Galatarum gentem credere , in potestate parentum liberos esse . 
produces the words of the xii . 
says , jus potestatis moribus receptum and furiosus filium in potestate habebit How sacred or rather , how absurd ! Note All this is in strict accordance with the Roman character . 
W. ! ! This parental power was strictly confined to the Roman citizen . 
The foreigner , or he who had only jus Latii , did not possess it . 
A man , however , alleging sufficient cause for his ignorance , might raise both mother and child to the rights of citizenship . 
Such was the decision of Ulpian and Paul . 
and best illustrated in the Antiquities of Heineccius . 
Except on public occasions , and in the actual exercise of his office . 
In publicis locis atque muneribus , atque actionibus patrum , jura cum filiorum qui in magistratu sunt potestatibus collata interquiescere paullulum et connivere , c . 
and the homely idiom of Claudius Quadri garius the annalist . 
An imperfect right of property was at length communicated to sons and the threefold distinction of profectitious , adventitious , and professional was ascertained by the jurisprudence of the Code and Pandects . 
The life of a citizen was less exposed than his fortune to the abuse of paternal power . 
The Roman father , from the license of servile dominion , was reduced to the gravity and moderation of a judge . 
The presence and opinion of Augustus confirmed the sentence of exile pronounced against an intentional parricide by the domestic tribunal of Arius . 
The lessons of jurisprudence and Christianity had been insufficient to eradicate this inhuman practice , till their gentle influence was fortified by the terrors of capital punishment . 
the former with horror , the latter with applause . 
who pours a flood of ancient and modern learning over these penal laws . 
refutes his own charges , and those of his brethren , against the heathen jurisprudence . 
In a learned out angry controversy , the two friends deviated into the opposite extremes . 
Experience has proved , that savages are the tyrants of the female sex , and that the condition of women is usually softened by the refinements of social life . 
the strange characters of sister to her own children , and of daughter to her husband or master , who was invested with the plenitude of paternal power . 
Plutarch , in Numa , p . 
gives a ridiculous definition of Aelius Melissus , Matrona , quae semel materfamilias quae saepius peperit , as porcetra and scropha in the sow kind . 
He then adds the genuine meaning , quae in matrimonium vel in manum convenerat . 
Solon requires three payments per month . 
The dignity of marriage was restored by the Christians , who derived all spiritual grace from the prayers of the faithful and the benediction of the priest or bishop . 
But we shall rather hear the polished historian of the eighth , than the rough orators of the sixth , century of Rome . 
For the system of Jewish and Catholic matrimony , see Selden , Uxor Ebraica , Opp . 
with the notes of Pithaeus and Schulting . 
Besides the agreement of the parties , the essence of every rational contract , the Roman marriage required the previous approbation of the parents . 
A father might be forced by some recent laws to supply the wants of a mature daughter but even his insanity was not gradually allowed to supersede the necessity of his consent . 
The causes of the dissolution of matrimony have varied among the Romans but the most solemn sacrament , the confarreation itself , might always be done away by rites of a contrary tendency . 
In three centuries of prosperity and corruption , this principle was enlarged to frequent practice and pernicious abuse . 
A specious theory is confuted by this free and perfect experiment , which demonstrates , that the liberty of divorce does not contribute to happiness and virtue . 
Romulus allowed only three grounds of a divorce drunkenness , adultery , and false keys . 
This strange law was either imaginary or transient . 
Montesquieu relates and explains this fact in a different marnes Esprit des Loix , l . 
He was questioned by the censors , and hated by the people but his divorce stood unimpeached in law . 
Sic fiunt octo mariti Quinque per autumnos . 
Insufficient remedies followed with distant and tardy steps the rapid progress of the evil . 
Augustus , who united the powers of both magistrates , adopted their different modes of repressing or chastising the license of divorce . 
Whoever transgressed the permission of the law , was subject to various and heavy penalties . 
in the Palatine region , appears in the time of Theodosius , in the description of Rome by Publius Victor . 
With some propriety he judges divorce more criminal than celibacy illo namque conjugalia sacre spreta tantum , hoc etiam injuriose tractata . 
See the laws of Augustus and his successors , in Heineccius , ad Legem Papiam Poppaeam , c . 
Justinian fluctuated to the last between civil and ecclesiastical law . 
In pure Greek , it is not a common word nor can the proper meaning , fornication , be strictly applied to matrimonial sin . 
that such ground of divorce was not excepted by Jesus . 
Note But these had nothing to do with the question of a divorce made by judicial authority . 
The freedom of love and marriage was restrained among the Romans by natural and civil impediments . 
An instinct , almost innate and universal , appears to prohibit the incestuous commerce of parents and children in the infinite series of ascending and descending generations . 
Concerning the oblique and collateral branches , nature is indifferent , reason mute , and custom various and arbitrary . 
This appellation , indeed , so injurious to the majesty , cannot without indulgence be applied to the manners , of these Oriental queens . 
The outcasts of every family were adopted without reproach as the children of the state . 
and the laws and manners of the different nations of antiquity concerning forbidden degrees , c . 
, are copiously explained by Dr . 
a work of amusing , though various reading but which cannot be praised for philosophical precision . 
a man might marry his niece on the brother's , not on the sister's , side . 
The emperor Claudius set the example of the former . 
In the Institutes , this distinction was abolished and both declared illegal . 
She was therefore above fifty years old when Titus invitus invitam invisit . 
This date would not have adorned the tragedy or pastoral of the tender Racine . 
seems to be numbered among the monsters who warred with Mark Antony against Augustus , the senate , and the gods of Italy . 
illustrate this interesting and domestic subject . 
! See , however , the two fragments of laws in the newly discovered extracts from the Theodosian Code , published by M. A. Peyron , at Turin . 
By the first law of Constantine , the legitimate offspring could alone inherit where there were no near legitimate relatives , the inheritance went to the fiscus . 
M. Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
The person and property of an orphan must always be trusted to the custody of some discreet friend . 
Till the infant could speak , and think , he was represented by the tutor , whose authority was finally determined by the age of puberty . 
Without his consent , no act of the pupil could bind himself to his own prejudice , though it might oblige others for his personal benefit . 
Women were condemned to the perpetual tutelage of parents , husbands , or guardians a sex created to please and obey was never supposed to have attained the age of reason and experience . 
Such , at least , was the stern and haughty spirit of the ancient law , which had been insensibly mollified before the time of Justinian . 
Gibbon accuses the civilians of having rashly fixed the age of puberty at twelve or fourteen years . 
It was not so before Justinian , no law existed on this subject . 
Ulpian relates the discussions which took place on this point among the different sects of civilians . 
See the Institutes , l . 
, and the fragments of Ulpian . 
Nor was the curatorship obligatory for all minors . 
The original right of property can only be justified by the accident or merit of prior occupancy and on this foundation it is wisely established by the philosophy of the civilians . 
The materials were common to all , the new form , the produce of his time and simple industry , belongs solely to himself . 
His hungry brethren cannot , without a sense of their own injustice , extort from the hunter the game of the forest overtaken or slain by his personal strength and dexterity . 
Such , in truth , may be the freedom and plenty of a small colony cast on a fruitful island . 
But the colony multiplies , while the space still continues the same the common rights , the equal inheritance of mankind . 
In the progress from primitive equity to final injustice , the steps are silent , the shades are almost imperceptible , and the absolute monopoly is guarded by positive laws and artificial reason . 
Except in the singular institutions of Sparta , the wisest legislators have disapproved an agrarian law as a false and dangerous innovation . 
The original territory of Rome consisted only of some miles of wood and meadow along the banks of the Tyber and domestic exchange could add nothing to the national stock . 
A citizen could only forfeit his rights by apparent dereliction , and such dereliction of a valuable interest could not easily be presumed . 
The subordinate exceptions of use , of usufruct , of servitude , imposed for the benefit of a neighbor on lands and houses , are abundantly explained by the professors of jurisprudence . 
The claims of property , as far as they are altered by the mixture , the division , or the transformation of substances , are investigated with metaphysical subtilty by the same civilians . 
Note On the duo jugera , compare Niebuhr , vol . 
The definition is somewhat arbitrary and as none except myself have assigned a reason , I am diffident of my own . 
infers that there could not then be more order and settlement in Italy than now amongst the Tartars . 
Note Gibbon acknowledges , in the former note , the obscurity of his views with regard to the res mancipi . 
The interpreters , who preceded him , are not agreed on this point , one of the most difficult in the ancient Roman law . 
The conclusions of Hume , of which the author here speaks , are grounded on false assumptions . 
Gibbon had conceived very inaccurate notions of Property among the Romans , and those of many authors in the present day are not less erroneous . 
Besides the authorities formerly known , such as the Fragments of Ulpian , t . 
, , may be consulted the Institutes of Gaius , i . 
The Roman laws protected all property acquired in a lawful manner . 
But they did not always grant a recovery against the third person , who had become bona fide possessed of the property . 
He who had obtained possession of a thing belonging to another , knowing nothing of the prior rights of that person , maintained the possession . 
The law had expressly determined those cases , in which it permitted property to be reclaimed from an innocent possessor . 
In these cases possession had the characters of absolute proprietorship , called mancipium , jus Quiritium . 
Every other kind of possession , which might be named imperfect proprietorship , was called in bonis habere . 
It was not till after the time of Cicero that the general name of Dominium was given to all proprietorship . 
It was then the publicity which constituted the distinctive character of absolute dominion . 
These modes of acquisition were , . 
In jure cessio , which was a solemn delivering over before the praetor . 
Adjudicatio , made by a judge , in a case of partition . 
Lex , which comprehended modes of acquiring in particular cases determined by law probably the law of the xii . 
tables for instance , the sub corona emptio and the legatum . 
Usna , called afterwards usacapio , and by the moderns prescription . 
This was only a year for movables two years for things not movable . 
Its primary object was altogether different from that of prescription in the present day . 
This last mode of acquisition completed the system of civil acquisitions . 
as it were , every other kind of acquisition which was not conferred , from the commencement , by the Jus Quiritium . 
But this does not appear to have been the original design of this Institution . 
Caeterum etiam earum rerum usucapio nobis competit , quae non a domino nobis tradita fuerint , si modo eas bona fide acceperimus Gaius , l ii . 
As to things of smaller value , or those which it was difficult to distinguish from each other , the solemnities of which we speak were not requisite to obtain legal proprietorship . 
In this case simple delivery was sufficient . 
In proportion to the aggrandizement of the Republic , this latter principle became more important from the increase of the commerce and wealth of the state . 
This is the system now almost universally adopted . 
might be acquired only by the solemnities mentioned above , at least by that of mancipation , which was , without doubt , the most easy and the most usual . 
As for other things , the acquisition of which was not subject to these forms , in order to confer absolute right , they were called res nec mancipi . 
Ulpian and Varro enumerate the different kinds of res mancipi . 
Their enumerations do not quite agree and various methods of reconciling them have been attempted . 
The authority of Ulpian , however , who wrote as a civilian , ought to have the greater weight on this subject . 
But why are these things alone res mancipi ? This is one of the questions which have been most frequently agitated , and on which the opinions of civilians are most divided . 
M. Hugo has resolved it in the most natural and satisfactory manner . 
All things which were easily known individually , which were of great value , with which the Romans were acquainted , and which they highly appreciated , were res mancipi . 
Of old mancipation or some other solemn form was required for the acquisition of these things , an account of their importance . 
Mancipation served to prove their acquisition , because they were easily distinguished one from the other . 
On this great historical discussion consult the Magazine of Civil Law by M. Hugo , vol . 
, the dissertation of M. J. M. Zachariae , de Rebus Mancipi et nec Mancipi Conjecturae , p . 
Lipsiae , the History of Civil Law by M. Hugo and my Institutiones Juris Romani Privati p . 
As a general rule , it may be said that all things are res nec mancipi the res mancipi are the exception to this principle . 
The praetors changed the system of property by allowing a person , who had a thing in bonis , the right to recover before the prescribed term of usucaption had conferred absolute proprietorship . 
Justinian went still further , in times when there was no longer any distinction between a Roman citizen and a stranger . 
He granted the right of recovering all things which had been acquired , whether by what were called civil or natural modes of acquisition , Cod . 
And he so altered the theory of Gaius in his Institutes , ii . 
, that no trace remains of the doctrine taught by that civilian . 
affect to laugh at the insignificant doctrine , de aqua de pluvia arcenda , c . 
Yet it might be of frequent use among litigious neighbors , both in town and country . 
The jurisprudence of the Romans appear to have deviated from the inequality of nature much less than the Jewish , the Athenian , or the English institutions . 
On the death of a citizen , all his descendants , unless they were already freed from his paternal power , were called to the inheritance of his possessions . 
On the failure of the direct line , the right of succession must diverge to the collateral branches . 
A similar principle dictated the Voconian law , which abolished the right of female inheritance . 
As long as virgins were given or sold in marriage , the adoption of the wife extinguished the hopes of the daughter . 
But the equal succession of independent matrons supported their pride and luxury , and might transport into a foreign house the riches of their fathers . 
The rigor of the decemvirs was tempered by the equity of the praetors . 
The reciprocal inheritance of mothers and sons was established in the Tertullian and Orphitian decrees by the humanity of the senate . 
A new and more impartial order was introduced by the Novels of Justinian , who affected to revive the jurisprudence of the Twelve Tables . 
At Athens , the sons were equal but the poor daughters were endowed at the discretion of their brothers . 
illustrated by the version and comment of Sir William Jones , a scholar , a lawyer , and a man of genius . 
unjust only in the opinion of younger brothers . 
It may be of some political use in sharpening their industry . 
represent and compare the decrees of the civil with those of the canon and common law . 
In the viith degrees he computes persons . 
The Voconian law was enacted in the year of Rome . 
found an occasion of exercising his generosity to his mother , sisters , c . 
But the experience of unnatural parents recommended some limitations of their testamentary powers . 
In the Roman jurisprudence , an essential distinction was admitted between the inheritance and the legacies . 
wishes his countryman Domat in the place of Tribonian . 
Yet covenants before successions is not surely the natural order of civil laws . 
Prior examples of testaments are perhaps fabulous . 
who may be studied as a code of Roman antiquities . 
is almost too exclusive solum in usu est . 
enumerates only the public and private crimes , for which a son might likewise disinherit his father . 
Note Gibbon has singular notions on the provisions of Novell . 
, , which probably he did not clearly understand . 
They were stretched to the fourth degree by an abuse of the clixth Novel a partial , perplexed , declamatory law . 
Conquest and the formalities of law established the use of codicils . 
A codicil might be expressed in any mode , or in any language but the subscription of five witnesses must declare that it was the genuine composition of the author . 
His intention , however laudable , was sometimes illegal and the invention of fidei commissa , or trusts , arose form the struggle between natural justice and positive jurisprudence . 
A stranger of Greece or Africa might be the friend or benefactor of a childless Roman , but none , except a fellow citizen , could act as his heir . 
The declaration of Augustus relieved their doubts , gave a legal sanction to confidential testaments and codicils , and gently unravelled the forms and restraints of the republican jurisprudence . 
The interpretation of testaments was strict and literal but the language of trusts and codicils was delivered from the minute and technical accuracy of the civilians . 
specifies in Greek money the sum of , drachms . 
and the immense detail occupies twelve books of the Pandects . 
The general duties of mankind are imposed by their public and private relations but their specific obligations to each other can only be the effect of , . 
an injury and when these obligations are ratified by law , the interested party may compel the performance by a judicial action . 
On this principle , the civilians of every country have erected a similar jurisprudence , the fair conclusion of universal reason and justice . 
distinguish four sorts of obligations aut re , aut verbis , aut literis aut consensu but I confess myself partial to my own division . 
Note It is not at all applicable to the Roman system of contracts , even if I were allowed to be good . 
M. Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
Whatever might be the etymology of the Latin word , it conveyed the idea of a firm and irrevocable contract , which was always expressed in the mode of a question and answer . 
Do you promise to pay me one hundred pieces of gold ? was the solemn interrogation of Seius . 
I do promise , was the reply of Sempronius . 
But the ingenuity of the civilians successfully labored to convert simple engagements into the form of solemn stipulations . 
formed as valid an obligation as a solemn contract . 
Only an action , or the right to a direct judicial prosecution , was not permitted in every case of compact . 
In all other respects , the judge was bound to maintain an agreement made by pactum . 
The stipulation was a form common to every kind of agreement , by which the right of action was given to this . 
The obligations of the second class , as they were contracted by the delivery of a thing , are marked by the civilians with the epithet of real . 
A grateful return is due to the author of a benefit and whoever is intrusted with the property of another , has bound himself to the sacred duty of restitution . 
The Latin language very happily expresses the fundamental difference between the commodatum and the mutuum , which our poverty is reduced to confound under the vague and common appellation of a loan . 
The obligation of another contract , that of location , is of a more complicated kind . 
The landlord was often obliged to advance the stock and instruments of husbandry , and to content himself with a partition of the fruits . 
Usury , the inveterate grievance of the city , had been discouraged by the Twelve Tables , and abolished by the clamors of the people . 
It was revived by their wants and idleness , tolerated by the discretion of the praetors , and finally determined by the Code of Justinian . 
Persons of illustrious rank were confined to the moderate profit of four per cent . 
of the Pandects , and is one of the parts best deserving of the attention of an English student . 
Note This is erroneously called benefits . 
Gibbon enumerates various kinds of contracts , of which some alone are properly called benefits . 
The quinquennium , or term of five years , appears to have been a custom rather than a law but in France all leases of land were determined in nine years . 
and I am sorry to observe that it yet prevails in the beauteous and happy country where I am permitted to reside . 
I might implicitly acquiesce in the sense and learning of the three books of G. Noodt , de foenore et usuris . 
The interpretation of the asses or centesimoe usuroe at twelve , the unciarioe at one per cent . 
qu'on soit verse dans l'histoire de Rome , on verra qu'une pareille loi ne devoit pas etre l'ouvrage des decemvirs . 
Note The real nature of the foenus unciarium has been proved it amounted in a year of twelve months to ten per cent . 
See , in the Magazine for Civil Law , by M. Hugo , vol . 
, , an article of M. Schrader , following up the conjectures of Niebuhr , Hist . 
W. Compare a very clear account of this question in the appendix to Mr. Travers Twiss's Epitome of Niebuhr , vol . 
Gregory of Nyssa , Ambrose , Jerom , Augustin , and a host of councils and casuists . 
Cato , Seneca , Plutarch , have loudly condemned the practice or abuse of usury . 
According to the etymology of foenus , the principal is supposed to generate the interest a breed of barren metal , exclaims Shakespeare and the stage is the echo of the public voice . 
Nature and society impose the strict obligation of repairing an injury and the sufferer by private injustice acquires a personal right and a legitimate action . 
The equity of the praetors examined and estimated the distinct merits of each particular complaint . 
borrowed this story from the Commentaries of Q. Labeo on the xii . 
But this act of justice , or revenge , was inflicted on a foreign enemy in the heat of victory , and at the command of a single man . 
The decemvirs distributed with much liberality the slighter chastisements of flagellation and servitude and nine crimes of a very different complexion are adjudged worthy of death . 
Any act of treason against the state , or of correspondence with the public enemy . 
Nocturnal meetings in the city whatever might be the pretence , of pleasure , or religion , or the public good . 
The murder of a citizen for which the common feelings of mankind demand the blood of the murderer . 
Italy produces no monkeys but the want could never be felt , till the middle of the sixth century first revealed the guilt of a parricide . 
The malice of an incendiary . 
After the previous ceremony of whipping , he himself was delivered to the flames and in this example alone our reason is tempted to applaud the justice of retaliation . 
The corruption of a judge , who accepted bribes to pronounce an iniquitous sentence . 
Libels and satires , whose rude strains sometimes disturbed the peace of an illiterate city . 
The author was beaten with clubs , a worthy chastisement , but it is not certain that he was left to expire under the blows of the executioner . 
The nocturnal mischief of damaging or destroying a neighbor's corn . 
The criminal was suspended as a grateful victim to Ceres . 
But the sylvan deities were less implacable , and the extirpation of a more valuable tree was compensated by the moderate fine of twenty five pounds of copper . 
The cruelty of the twelve tables against insolvent debtors still remains to be told and I shall dare to prefer the literal sense of antiquity to the specious refinements of modern criticism . 
After the judicial proof or confession of the debt , thirty days of grace were allowed before a Roman was delivered into the power of his fellow citizen . 
For his laws , see the writers on the government of Athens , Sigonius , Meursius , Potter , c . 
The viith , de delictis , of the xii . 
and the Collatio Legum Mosaicarum et Romanarum afford much original information . 
are accidents and prodigies which leave no marks on the manners of a nation . 
enumerate all the companions of the parricide . 
But this fanciful execution was simplified in practice . 
labors to prove that the creditors divided not the body , but the price , of the insolvent debtor . 
Yet his interpretation is one perpetual harsh metaphor nor can he surmount the Roman authorities of Quintilian , Caecilius , Favonius , and Tertullian . 
See Aulus Gellius , Noct . 
concurs with Gibbon See Niebuhr , vol . 
M. In the absence of penal laws , and the insufficiency of civil actions , the peace and justice of the city were imperfectly maintained by the private jurisdiction of the citizens . 
The malefactors who replenish our jails are the outcasts of society , and the crimes for which they suffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance , poverty , and brutal appetite . 
In some pressing emergencies , the citizen was authorized to avenge his private or public wrongs . 
The failure of penal laws was more sensibly felt , when every vice was inflamed by faction at home and dominion abroad . 
is in defence of a husband who had killed the adulterer . 
The rights of husbands and fathers at Rome and Athens are discussed with much learning by Dr . 
See Casaubon ad Athenaeum , l . 
and it fully justifies the public opinion on the death of Caesar which Suetonius could publish under the Imperial government . 
has not dissembled the popular suspicion and report . 
He gloried in the arbitrary proscription of four thousand seven hundred citizens . 
But the invention and frequent use of extraordinary pains proceeded from the desire to extend and conceal the progress of despotism . 
In the condemnation of illustrious Romans , the senate was always prepared to confound , at the will of their masters , the judicial and legislative powers . 
Occasional rescripts issued from the throne to decide the questions which , by their novelty or importance , appeared to surpass the authority and discernment of a proconsul . 
Transportation and beheading were reserved for honorable persons meaner criminals were either hanged , or burnt , or buried in the mines , or exposed to the wild beasts of the amphitheatre . 
more accurately computes forty victims of the senatorian rank , and of the equestrian census or order . 
It was a guardian who had poisoned his ward . 
among the acts in which Galba showed himself acer , vehemens , et in delictis coercendis immodicus . 
A sin , a vice , a crime , are the objects of theology , ethics , and jurisprudence . 
Whenever their judgments agree , they corroborate each other but , as often as they differ , a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt and punishment according to the measure of social injury . 
I touch with reluctance , and despatch with impatience , a more odious vice , of which modesty rejects the name , and nature abominates the idea . 
it was affirmed and believed that the Julian laws punished adultery with death and the mistake arose from the fraud or error of Tribonian . 
and even from the practice of Augustus , who distinguished the treasonable frailties of his female kindred . 
Nor is this privilege unjust so different are the effects of male or female infidelity . 
describe the luxury and lust of the Etruscans . 
But scelera ostendi oportet dum puniuntur , abscondi flagitia . 
But I will observe that the nefanda Venus of the honest German is styled aversa by the more polite Italian . 
A crowd of disgraceful passages will force themselves on the memory of the classic reader I will only remind him of the cool declaration of Ovid Odi concubitus qui non utrumque resolvant . 
Hoc est quod puerum tangar amore minus . 
Aelius Lampridius , in Vit . 
Aurelius Victor , in Philippo , Codex Theodos . 
, and Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
Theodosius abolished the subterraneous brothels of Rome , in which the prostitution of both sexes was acted with impunity . 
Chapter XLIV Idea Of The Roman Jurisprudence . 
A new spirit of legislation , respectable even in its error , arose in the empire with the religion of Constantine . 
The laws of Moses were received as the divine original of justice , and the Christian princes adapted their penal statutes to the degrees of moral and religious turpitude . 
But the same emperor declared himself the implacable enemy of unmanly lust , and the cruelty of his persecution can scarcely be excused by the purity of his motives . 
Perhaps these prelates were innocent . 
A French philosopher has dared to remark that whatever is secret must be doubtful , and that our natural horror of vice may be abused as an engine of tyranny . 
See the laws of Constantine and his successors against adultery , sodomy c . 
These princes speak the language of passion as well as of justice , and fraudulently ascribe their own severity to the first Caesars . 
, , with the notes of Alemannus . 
Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
That eloquent philosopher conciliates the rights of liberty and of nature , which should never be placed in opposition to each other . 
For the corruption of Palestine , years before the Christian aera , see the history and laws of Moses . 
I believe , and hope , that the negroes , in their own country , were exempt from this moral pestilence . 
The free citizens of Athens and Rome enjoyed , in all criminal cases , the invaluable privilege of being tried by their country . 
Some salutary restraints , imposed by the people or their own passions , were at once the cause and effect of the gravity and temperance of the Romans . 
The right of accusation was confined to the magistrates . 
In the first ages these questions were rare and occasional . 
To discharge this important , though burdensome office , an annual list of ancient and respectable citizens was formed by the praetor . 
With the increase of legal proceedings , the tribunal of the centumvirs , in which he presided , acquired more weight and reputation . 
The rules and precautions of freedom have required some explanation the order of despotism is simple and inanimate . 
The office , both at Rome and in England , must be considered as an occasional duty , and not a magistracy , or profession . 
But the obligation of a unanimous verdict is peculiar to our laws , which condemn the jurymen to undergo the torture from whence they have exempted the criminal . 
We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconius Pedianus , who flourished under the reign of Tiberius . 
The loss of his Commentaries on the Orations of Cicero has deprived us of a valuable fund of historical and legal knowledge . 
A Roman accused of any capital crime might prevent the sentence of the law by voluntary exile , or death . 
The bodies of condemned criminals were exposed to public ignominy , and their children , a more serious evil , were reduced to poverty by the confiscation of their fortunes . 
The exquisite avarice and cruelty of Domitian appear to have deprived the unfortunate of this last consolation , and it was still denied even by the clemency of the Antonines . 
The powers of this world have indeed lost their dominion over him who is resolved on death and his arm can only be restrained by the religious apprehension of a future state . 
Suicides are enumerated by Virgil among the unfortunate , rather than the guilty and the poetical fables of the infernal shades could not seriously influence the faith or practice of mankind . 
The extension of the empire and city of Rome obliged the exile to seek a more distant place of retirement . 
Qui de se statuebant , humabanta corpora , manebant testamenta pretium festinandi . 
, with the Notes of Lipsius . 
define the civil limitations of the liberty and privileges of suicide . 
The criminal penalties are the production of a later and darker age . 
When he fatigued his subjects in building the Capitol , many of the laborers were provoked to despatch themselves he nailed their dead bodies to crosses . 
to confound suicides with infants , lovers , and persons unjustly condemned . 
Heyne , the best of his editors , is at a loss to deduce the idea , or ascertain the jurisprudence , of the Roman poet . 
This singular distinction , though something may be allowed for the urgent necessity of defending the peace of society , is derived from the nature of criminal and civil jurisprudence . 
Justinian , the Greek emperor of Constantinople and the East , was the legal successor of the Latin shepherd who had planted a colony on the banks of the Tyber . 
The expense of the pursuit sometimes exceeded the value of the prize , and the fairest rights were abandoned by the poverty or prudence of the claimants . 
By these dilatory and expensive proceedings , the wealthy pleader obtains a more certain advantage than he could hope from the accidental corruption of his judge . 
Chapter XLV State Of Italy Under The Lombards . 
Part I. Reign Of The Younger Justin . 
Their Settlement On The Danube . 
Conquest Of Italy By The Lombards . 
Adoption And Reign Of Tiberius . 
State Of Italy Under The Lombards And The Exarchs . 
Character And Pontificate Of Gregory The First . 
During the last years of Justinian , his infirm mind was devoted to heavenly contemplation , and he neglected the business of the lower world . 
He expired in his palace , after a reign of thirty eight years and the decisive opportunity was embraced by the friends of Justin , the son of Vigilantia . 
After composing his countenance to surprise , sorrow , and decent modesty , Justin , by the advice of his wife Sophia , submitted to the authority of the senate . 
He was conducted with speed and silence to the palace the guards saluted their new sovereign and the martial and religious rites of his coronation were diligently accomplished . 
By the hands of the proper officers he was invested with the Imperial garments , the red buskins , white tunic , and purple robe . 
See the family of Justin and Justinian in the Familiae Byzantine of Ducange , p . 
have since illustrated the genealogy of their favorite prince . 
In the story of Justin's elevation I have translated into simple and concise prose the eight hundred verses of the two first books of Corippus , de Laudibus Justini Appendix Hist . 
and to postpone , till A. D. , the consulship of Justin . 
Whenever Cedrenus or Zonaras are mere transcribers , it is superfluous to allege their testimony . 
The late emperor had cultivated , with annual and costly gifts , the friendship of a grateful monarch , and the enemies of Rome had respected the allies of the Avars . 
The empire , said he , abounds with men and horses , and arms sufficient to defend our frontiers , and to chastise the Barbarians . 
You offer aid , you threaten hostilities we despise your enmity and your aid . 
The conquerors of the Avars solicit our alliance shall we dread their fugitives and exiles ? The bounty of our uncle was granted to your misery , to your humble prayers . 
From us you shall receive a more important obligation , the knowledge of your own weakness . 
Retire from our presence the lives of ambassadors are safe and , if you return to implore our pardon , perhaps you will taste of our benevolence . 
On the report of his ambassadors , the chagan was awed by the apparent firmness of a Roman emperor of whose character and resources he was ignorant . 
Instead of executing his threats against the Eastern empire , he marched into the poor and savage countries of Germany , which were subject to the dominion of the Franks . 
After two doubtful battles , he consented to retire , and the Austrasian king relieve the distress of his camp with an immediate supply of corn and cattle . 
was printed , is no longer visible . 
for the early use of this title among the Turks and Persians , are weak or ambiguous . 
Their diversity proves that they did not copy each other their resemblance , that they drew from a common original . 
While Alboin served under his father's standard , he encountered in battle , and transpierced with his lance , the rival prince of the Gepidae . 
You are not unmindful , replied the inflexible Audoin , of the wise customs of our ancestors . 
Whatever may be his merit , a prince is incapable of sitting at table with his father till he has received his arms from a foreign and royal hand . 
At the banquet , whilst Alboin occupied the seat of the youth whom he had slain , a tender remembrance arose in the mind of Turisund . 
How dear is that place ! how hateful is that person ! were the words that escaped , with a sigh , from the indignant father . 
His grief exasperated the national resentment of the Gepidae and Cunimund , his surviving son , was provoked by wine , or fraternal affection , to the desire of vengeance . 
The Lombards , said the rude Barbarian , resemble , in figure and in smell , the mares of our Sarmatian plains . 
And this insult was a coarse allusion to the white bands which enveloped their legs . 
Add another resemblance , replied an audacious Lombard you have felt how strongly they kick . 
Visit the plain of Asfield , and seek for the bones of thy brother they are mingled with those of the vilest animals . 
The Gepidae , a nation of warriors , started from their seats , and the fearless Alboin , with his forty companions , laid their hands on their swords . 
The tumult was appeased by the venerable interposition of Turisund . 
Alboin returned in triumph and the Lombards , who celebrated his matchless intrepidity , were compelled to praise the virtues of an enemy . 
In this extraordinary visit he had probably seen the daughter of Cunimund , who soon after ascended the throne of the Gepidae . 
Her name was Rosamond , an appellation expressive of female beauty , and which our own history or romance has consecrated to amorous tales . 
was contracted to the granddaughter of Clovis but the restraints of faith and policy soon yielded to the hope of possessing the fair Rosamond , and of insulting her family and nation . 
The arts of persuasion were tried without success and the impatient lover , by force and stratagem , obtained the object of his desires . 
War was the consequence which he foresaw and solicited but the Lombards could not long withstand the furious assault of the Gepidae , who were sustained by a Roman army . 
Paul Warnefrid , the deacon of Friuli , de Gest . 
but he had art enough to build his fictions on public and notorious facts . 
But , if they hesitated or delayed to prevent the malice of the Romans , the same spirit which had insulted would pursue the Avars to the extremity of the earth . 
The despair of Cunimund was active and dangerous . 
But the courage of the Gepidae could secure them no more than an honorable death . 
After this victory , no further obstacle could impede the progress of the confederates , and they faithfully executed the terms of their agreement . 
One moiety of the spoil introduced into the camp of Alboin more wealth than a Barbarian could readily compute . 
The scalps of North America are likewise trophies of valor . 
Menander , in Excerpt Legat . 
The destruction of a mighty kingdom established the fame of Alboin . 
But his ambition was yet unsatisfied and the conqueror of the Gepidae turned his eyes from the Danube to the richer banks of the Po , and the Tyber . 
No sooner had he erected his standard , than the native strength of the Lombard was multiplied by the adventurous youth of Germany and Scythia . 
Of the Saxons , the old allies of the Lombards , twenty thousand warriors , with their wives and children , accepted the invitation of Alboin . 
Their bravery contributed to his success but the accession or the absence of their numbers was not sensibly felt in the magnitude of his host . 
Every mode of religion was freely practised by its respective votaries . 
Ut hactenus etiam tam apud Bajoarior um gentem , quam et Saxmum , sed et alios ejusdem linguae homines . 
in eorum carmini bus celebretur . 
were compiled and transcribed by Charlemagne . 
appear to be recent and contemptible romances . 
has discovered the village of the Bavarians , three miles from Modena . 
supposes that they likewise adored this she goat . 
I know but of one religion in which the god and the victim are the same . 
But the weakness of the Byzantine court was subservient to the Barbarian cause and it was for the ruin of Italy , that the emperor once listened to the complaints of his subjects . 
His government was oppressive or unpopular , and the general discontent was expressed with freedom by the deputies of Rome . 
The apprehension of a revolt was urged by the voice of envy and detraction , which had so recently triumphed over the merit of Belisarius . 
I will spin her such a thread as she shall not easily unravel ! is said to have been the reply which indignation and conscious virtue extorted from the hero . 
Narses invited the Lombards to chastise the ingratitude of the prince and people . 
But the passions of the people are furious and changeable , and the Romans soon recollected the merits , or dreaded the resentment , of their victorious general . 
His death , though in the extreme period of old age , was unseasonable and premature , since his genius alone could have repaired the last and fatal error of his life . 
The reality , or the suspicion , of a conspiracy disarmed and disunited the Italians . 
The soldiers resented the disgrace , and bewailed the loss , of their general . 
They were ignorant of their new exarch and Longinus was himself ignorant of the state of the army and the province . 
In the preceding years Italy had been desolated by pestilence and famine , and a disaffected people ascribed the calamities of nature to the guilt or folly of their rulers . 
is clearly understood to be a different person . 
The death of Narses is mentioned by Paul , l . 
Yet I cannot believe with Agnellus that Narses was ninety five years of age . 
Whatever might be the grounds of his security , Alboin neither expected nor encountered a Roman army in the field . 
He ascended the Julian Alps , and looked down with contempt and desire on the fruitful plains to which his victory communicated the perpetual appellation of Lombardy . 
A faithful chieftain , and a select band , were stationed at Forum Julii , the modern Friuli , to guard the passes of the mountains . 
Terror preceded his march he found every where , or he left , a dreary solitude and the pusillanimous Italians presumed , without a trial , that the stranger was invincible . 
Escaping to lakes , or rocks , or morasses , the affrighted crowds concealed some fragments of their wealth , and delayed the moment of their servitude . 
Honoratus , who filled the chair of St . 
but his seat was not removed to Venice till the year . 
He is now decorated with titles and honors but the genius of the church has bowed to that of the state , and the government of a Catholic city is strictly Presbyterian . 
Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
Amelot de la Houssaye , Gouvernement de Venise , tom . 
The Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii Aevi , by Father Beretti , a Benedictine monk , and regius professor at Pavia , has been usefully consulted . 
the eloquent narrative of Sigonius , tom . 
de Regno Italiae , l . 
The reign of the founder was splendid and transient and , before he could regulate his new conquests , Alboin fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and female revenge . 
After draining many capacious bowls of Rhaetian or Falernian wine , he called for the skull of Cunimund , the noblest and most precious ornament of his sideboard . 
The cup of victory was accepted with horrid applause by the circle of the Lombard chiefs . 
Some indulgence might be due to the resentment of a daughter , if she had not already violated the duties of a wife . 
In this alternative he chose rather to be the accomplice than the victim of Rosamond , whose undaunted spirit was incapable of fear or remorse . 
She expected and soon found a favorable moment , when the king , oppressed with wine , had retired from the table to his afternoon slumbers . 
The classical reader will recollect the wife and murder of Candaules , so agreeably told in the first book of Herodotus . 
Chapter XLV State Of Italy Under The Lombards . 
She sought a refuge among the enemies of her country and a criminal who deserved the abhorrence of mankind was protected by the selfish policy of the exarch . 
The death of a jealous lover was an easy and grateful sacrifice and , as Helmichis issued from the bath , he received the deadly potion from the hand of his mistress . 
By the free suffrage of the nation , in the assembly of Pavia , Clepho , one of their noblest chiefs , was elected as the successor of Alboin . 
His eyes were put out by the timid Justin . 
Peredeus requesting an interview , Justin substituted two patricians , whom the blinded Barbarian stabbed to the heart with two concealed daggers . 
See Le Beau , vol . 
M. See the history of Paul , l . 
I have borrowed some interesting circumstances from the Liber Pontificalis of Agnellus , in Script . 
Of all chronological guides , Muratori is the safest . 
When the nephew of Justinian ascended the throne , he proclaimed a new aera of happiness and glory . 
The annals of the second Justin are marked with disgrace abroad and misery at home . 
In the West , the Roman empire was afflicted by the loss of Italy , the desolation of Africa , and the conquests of the Persians . 
The opinion which imputes to the prince all the calamities of his times may be countenanced by the historian as a serious truth or a salutary prejudice . 
The ceremony of his elevation to the rank of Caesar , or Augustus , was performed in the portico of the palace , in the presence of the patriarch and the senate . 
You behold , said the emperor , the ensigns of supreme power . 
You are about to receive them , not from my hand , but from the hand of God . 
Honor them , and from them you will derive honor . 
Respect the empress your mother you are now her son before , you were her servant . 
Delight not in blood abstain from revenge avoid those actions by which I have incurred the public hatred and consult the experience , rather than the example , of your predecessor . 
who have abused my confidence , and inflamed my passions , will appear with me before the tribunal of Christ . 
I have been dazzled by the splendor of the diadem be thou wise and modest remember what you have been , remember what you are . 
You see around us your slaves , and your children with the authority , assume the tenderness , of a parent . 
Love your people like yourself cultivate the affections , maintain the discipline , of the army protect the fortunes of the rich , relieve the necessities of the poor . 
The original authors for the reign of Justin the younger are Evagrius , Hist . 
Dispositorque novus sacrae Baduarius aulae . 
Successor soceri mox factus Cura palati . 
Baduarius is enumerated among the descendants and allies of the house of Justinian . 
Amelot de la Houssaye , Gouvernement de Venise , tom . 
The praise bestowed on princes before their elevation is the purest and most weighty . 
Yet even a captain of the guards might attract the flattery of an African exile . 
has added the reproach to his ministers He applies this speech to the ceremony when Tiberius was invested with the rank of Caesar . 
The loose expression , rather than the positive error , of Theophanes , c . 
, has delayed it to his Augustan investitura immediately before the death of Justin . 
declares that he shall give to posterity the speech of Justin as it was pronounced , without attempting to correct the imperfections of language or rhetoric . 
Perhaps the vain sophist would have been incapable of producing such sentiments . 
But , if the ambitious candidate had been tempted to flatter and dissemble , it was no longer in his power to fulfil her expectations , or his own promise . 
Justinian received a free pardon , and the command of the eastern army . 
The Persian monarch fled before his arms and the acclamations which accompanied his triumph declared him worthy of the purple . 
His artful patroness had chosen the month of the vintage , while the emperor , in a rural solitude , was permitted to enjoy the pleasures of a subject . 
On the first intelligence of her designs , he returned to Constantinople , and the conspiracy was suppressed by his presence and firmness . 
might reveal to the emperor , that he should always triumph over his domestic foes but Tiberius derived a firmer assurance from the innocence and generosity of his own mind . 
For the character and reign of Tiberius , see Evagrius , l v . 
Paul Warnefrid , de Gestis Langobard . 
The deacon of Forum Juli appears to have possessed some curious and authentic facts . 
With the odious name of Tiberius , he assumed the more popular appellation of Constantine , and imitated the purer virtues of the Antonines . 
The merit or misfortunes of his own subjects had a dearer claim to his beneficence , and he measured his bounty not so much by their expectations as by his own dignity . 
Constantinople believed that the emperor had discovered a treasure but his genuine treasure consisted in the practice of liberal economy , and the contempt of all vain and superfluous expense . 
The Romans of the East would have been happy , if the best gift of Heaven , a patriot king , had been confirmed as a proper and permanent blessing . 
Tiberius expressed his hope that the virtues of his son and successor would erect the noblest mausoleum to his memory . 
a perfect aristocracy of reason and virtue . 
But the rational wishes of an absolute monarch must tend to the happiness of his people . 
Maurice was endowed with sense and courage to promote that happiness , and his administration was directed by the principles and example of Tiberius . 
should distinguish him as the first Greek emperor primus ex Graecorum genere in Imperio constitutus . 
Consult , for the character and reign of Maurice , the fifth and sixth books of Evagrius , particularly l . 
l the eight books of his prolix and florid history by Theophylact Simocatta Theophanes , p . 
From Italy the emperors were incessantly tormented by tales of misery and demands of succor , which extorted the humiliating confession of their own weakness . 
Peter repulsed the Barbarians from their walls . 
The dukes of the Lombards had provoked by frequent inroads their powerful neighbors of Gaul . 
The first expedition was defeated by the jealous animosity of the Franks and Alemanni . 
In the second they were vanquished in a bloody battle , with more loss and dishonor than they had sustained since the foundation of their monarchy . 
Impatient for revenge , they returned a third time with accumulated force , and Autharis yielded to the fury of the torrent . 
The troops and treasures of the Lombards were distributed in the walled towns between the Alps and the Apennine . 
The powers that were inadequate to the conquest , were more than sufficient for the desolation , of the country nor could the trembling natives distinguish between their enemies and their deliverers . 
The victorious Autharis asserted his claim to the dominion of Italy . 
At the foot of the Rhaetian Alps , he subdued the resistance , and rifled the hidden treasures , of a sequestered island in the Lake of Comum . 
The Columna Rhegina , in the narrowest part of the Faro of Messina , one hundred stadia from Rhegium itself , is frequently mentioned in ancient geography . 
who had read the more ancient histories of Secundus and Gregory of Tours . 
Baronius produces some letters of the popes , c . 
and the times are measured by the accurate scale of Pagi and Muratori . 
During a period of two hundred years , Italy was unequally divided between the kingdom of the Lombards and the exarchate of Ravenna . 
Their immediate jurisdiction , which was afterwards consecrated as the patrimony of St . 
In Sardinia , the savage mountaineers preserved the liberty and religion of their ancestors and the husbandmen of Sicily were chained to their rich and cultivated soil . 
Rome was oppressed by the iron sceptre of the exarchs , and a Greek , perhaps a eunuch , insulted with impunity the ruins of the Capitol . 
On the map of Italy , the measure of the exarchate occupies a very inadequate space , but it included an ample proportion of wealth , industry , and population . 
The dukes , and at length the princes , of Beneventum , survived the monarchy , and propagated the name of the Lombards . 
From Capua to Tarentum , they reigned near five hundred years over the greatest part of the present kingdom of Naples . 
The papal advocates , Zacagni and Fontanini , might justly claim the valley or morass of Commachio as a part of the exarchate . 
Ima de Republica Amalphitana , p . 
I have described the state of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of Beretti . 
has followed the learned Camillo Pellegrini in the geography of the kingdom of Naples . 
In comparing the proportion of the victorious and the vanquished people , the change of language will afford the most probably inference . 
The posterity of the first conquerors struck a deeper root into the soil , which , by every motive of interest and honor , they were bound to defend . 
A Lombard was born the soldier of his king and his duke and the civil assemblies of the nation displayed the banners , and assumed the appellation , of a regular army . 
of paying to the Lombards a third part of the fruits of the earth . 
Within less than seventy years , this artificial system was abolished by a more simple and solid tenure . 
But the occupations of a pastoral life were more pleasing to the idleness of the Barbarian . 
The depopulation of Lombardy , and the increase of forests , afforded an ample range for the pleasures of the chase . 
Scandinavia and Scythia produce the boldest and most tractable falcons they were tamed and educated by the roving inhabitants , always on horseback and in the field . 
have asserted the native claims of the Italian idiom the former with enthusiasm , the latter with discretion both with learning , ingenuity , and truth . 
Note Compare the admirable sketch of the degeneracy of the Latin language and the formation of the Italian in Hallam , Middle Ages , vol . 
M. Paul , de Gest . 
He calls these families or generations by the Teutonic name of Faras , which is likewise used in the Lombard laws . 
The humble deacon was not insensible of the nobility of his own race . 
Compare No. and of the Laws of Rotharis . 
Gisulf obtained from his uncle generosarum equarum greges . 
The Lombards afterwards introduced caballi sylvatici wild horses . 
The buffaloes , whose native climate appears to be Africa and India , are unknown to Europe , except in Italy , where they are numerous and useful . 
has described them as the wild oxen of Arachosia . 
Generale des Voyages , tom . 
Naturelle , par Valmont de Bomare , tom . 
Yet I must not conceal the suspicion that Paul , by a vulgar error , may have applied the name of bubalus to the aurochs , or wild bull , of ancient Germany . 
Consult the xxist Dissertation of Muratori . 
Their ignorance is proved by the silence even of those who professedly treat of the arts of hunting and the history of animals . 
describe with astonishment a tacit league and common chase between the hawks and the Thracian fowlers . 
Particularly the gerfaut , or gyrfalcon , of the size of a small eagle . 
See the animated description of M. de Buffon , Hist . 
This is the xvith law of the emperor Lewis the Pious . 
Note See Beckman , Hist . 
M. Chapter XLV State Of Italy Under The Lombards . 
So rapid was the influence of climate and example , that the Lombards of the fourth generation surveyed with curiosity and affright the portraits of their savage forefathers . 
Their heads were shaven behind , but the shaggy locks hung over their eyes and mouth , and a long beard represented the name and character of the nation . 
Their dress consisted of loose linen garments , after the fashion of the Anglo Saxons , which were decorated , in their opinion , with broad stripes or variegated colors . 
The legs and feet were clothed in long hose , and open sandals and even in the security of peace a trusty sword was constantly girt to their side . 
After the loss of his promised bride , a Merovingian princess , he sought in marriage the daughter of the king of Bavaria and Garribald accepted the alliance of the Italian monarch . 
Impatient of the slow progress of negotiation , the ardent lover escaped from his palace , and visited the court of Bavaria in the train of his own embassy . 
Such , said he to the astonished Bavarians , such are the strokes of the king of the Lombards . 
On the approach of a French army , Garribald and his daughter took refuge in the dominions of their ally and the marriage was consummated in the palace of Verona . 
may be applied to many of his countrymen Terribilis visu facies , sed corda benignus Longaque robusto pectore barba fuit . 
The story of Autharis and Theudelinda is related by Paul , l . 
, and any fragment of Bavarian antiquity excites the indefatigable diligence of the count de Buat , Hist . 
des Peuples de l'Europe , ton . 
who , without right , or truth , or pretence , has given the pious queen Theudelinda to the arms of a muleteer . 
The public revenue arose from the produce of land and the profits of justice . 
When the independent dukes agreed that Autharis should ascend the throne of his father , they endowed the regal office with a fair moiety of their respective domains . 
In peace a judge , a leader in war , he never usurped the powers of a sole and absolute legislator . 
The first dissertations of Muratori , and the first volume of Giannone's history , may be consulted for the state of the kingdom of Italy . 
The most accurate edition of the Laws of the Lombards is to be found in the Scriptores Rerum Italicarum , tom . 
, collated from the most ancient Mss. and illustrated by the critical notes of Muratori . 
Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
Les loix des Bourguignons sont assez judicieuses celles de Rotharis et des autres princes Lombards le sont encore plus . 
See Leges Rotharis , No. , p . 
Striga is used as the name of a witch . 
it may be inferred that the prejudice was of Italian rather than Barbaric extraction . 
Quia incerti sumus de judicio Dei , et multos audivimus per pugnam sine justa causa suam causam perdere . 
Sed propter consuetudinom gentem nostram Langobardorum legem impiam vetare non possumus . 
, No. , of the Laws of Luitprand , promulgated A. D. . 
Read the history of Paul Warnefrid particularly l . 
presumes to insinuate that the saint may have magnified the faults of Arians and enemies . 
relates a memorable prediction of St . 
Roma a Gentilibus non exterminabitur sed tempestatibus , coruscis turbinibus ac terrae motu in semetipsa marces cet . 
Such a prophecy melts into true history , and becomes the evidence of the fact after which it was invented . 
and for Livy , Antoninus of Florence the oldest of the three lived in the xiith century . 
The unreasonable request of an empress , who wished to deprive the Romans of their sacred treasure , the head of St . 
But the power as well as virtue of the apostles resided with living energy in the breast of their successors and the chair of St . 
Peter was filled under the reign of Maurice by the first and greatest of the name of Gregory . 
His grandfather Felix had himself been pope , and as the bishops were already bound by the laws of celibacy , his consecration must have been preceded by the death of his wife . 
pursued the path which would have been chosen by a crafty and ambitious statesman . 
Peter , a tone of independent dignity , which would have been criminal and dangerous in the most illustrious layman of the empire . 
The annals of Baronius are a copious but partial history . 
and his chronology has been rectified by the criticism of Pagi and Muratori . 
The same walls which represented Gregory's family are now decorated with the martyrdom of St . 
Andrew , the noble contest of Dominichino and Guido . 
Disciplinis vero liberalibus , hoc est grammatica , rhetorica , dialectica ita apuero est institutus , ut quamvis eo tempore florerent adhuc Romae studia literarum , tamen nulli in urbe ipsa secundus putaretur . 
See Butler's Lives of the Saints , vol . 
a work of merit the sense and learning belong to the author his prejudices are those of his profession . 
Monasterium Gregorianum in ejusdem Beati Gregorii aedibus ad clivum Scauri prope ecclesiam SS . 
Johannis et Pauli in honorem St . 
This house and monastery were situate on the side of the Caelian hill which fronts the Palatine they are now occupied by the Camaldoli San Gregorio triumphs , and St . 
Andrew has retired to a small chapel Nardini , Roma Antica , l . 
Descrizzione di Roma , tom . 
The pontificate of Gregory the Great , which lasted thirteen years , six months , and ten days , is one of the most edifying periods of the history of the church . 
In his rival , the patriarch of Constantinople , he condemned the anti Christian title of universal bishop , which the successor of St . 
The bishops of Italy and the adjacent islands acknowledged the Roman pontiff as their special metropolitan . 
Instead of six legions , forty monks were embarked for that distant island , and the pontiff lamented the austere duties which forbade him to partake the perils of their spiritual warfare . 
that the simplicity of the Ambrosian chant was confined to four modes , while the more perfect harmony of the Gregorian comprised the eight modes or fifteen chords of the ancient music . 
that the connoisseurs admire the preface and many passages of the Gregorian office . 
expresses the early contempt of the Italians for tramontane singing . 
In the time of Charlemagne , the Franks , though with some reluctance , admitted the justice of the reproach . 
has vindicated the right of Gregory to the entire nonsense of the Dialogues . 
does not think that any one will vouch for the truth of all these miracles I should like to know how many of them he believed himself . 
The voluminous account of his receipts and disbursements was kept above three hundred years in the Lateran , as the model of Christian economy . 
Disappointed in the hope of a general and lasting treaty , he presumed to save his country without the consent of the emperor or the exarch . 
The sword of the enemy was suspended over Rome it was averted by the mild eloquence and seasonable gifts of the pontiff , who commanded the respect of heretics and Barbarians . 
Baronius is unwilling to expatiate on the care of the patrimonies , lest he should betray that they consisted not of kingdoms , but farms . 
are not afraid of entering into these humble , though useful , details and the humanity of Fleury dwells on the social virtues of Gregory . 
I much suspect that this pecuniary fine on the marriages of villains produced the famous , and often fabulous right , de cuissage , de marquette , c . 
See his works , tom . 
Chapter XLVI Troubles In Persia . 
Part I. Revolutions On Persia After The Death Of Chosroes On Nushirvan . 
His Son Hormouz , A Tyrant , Is Deposed . 
Flight And Restoration Of Chosroes II . 
His Gratitude To The Romans . 
The Chagan Of The Avars . 
Revolt Of The Army Against Maurice . 
Chosroes Subdues Syria , Egypt , And Asia Minor . 
Siege Of Constantinople By The Persians And Avars . 
Victories And Triumph Of Heraclius . 
The conflict of Rome and Persia was prolonged from the death of Craesus to the reign of Heraclius . 
An experience of seven hundred years might convince the rival nations of the impossibility of maintaining their conquests beyond the fatal limits of the Tigris and Euphrates . 
Yet the emulation of Trajan and Julian was awakened by the trophies of Alexander , and the sovereigns of Persia indulged the ambitious hope of restoring the empire of Cyrus . 
veteres Persarum ac Macedonum terminos , seque invasurum possessa Cyro et post Alexandro , per vaniloquentiam ac minas jaciebat . 
Such was the language of the Arsacides . 
I have repeatedly marked the lofty claims of the Sassanians . 
See the embassies of Menander , extracted and preserved in the tenth century by the order of Constantine Porphyrogenitus . 
The general independence of the Arabs , which cannot be admitted without many limitations , is blindly asserted in a separate dissertation of the authors of the Universal History , vol . 
But the disputants appear to forget the inseparable connection in the prediction between the wild , the Bedoween habits of the Ismaelites , with their national independence . 
and others , according to the Hebrew geography , to the East of his brethren , the legitimate race of Abraham M. D'Herbelot , Biblioth . 
has proved that , after ten years' peace , the Persian war , which continued twenty years , was renewed A. D. . 
and this account allows two years for the conquest of Yemen . 
Note Abrahah , according to some accounts , was succeeded by his son Taksoum , who reigned seventeen years his brother Mascouh , who was slain in battle against the Persians , twelve . 
But this chronology is irreconcilable with the Arabian conquests of Nushirvan the Great . 
Either Seif , or his son Maadi Karb , was the native prince placed on the throne by the Persians . 
See likewise Johannsen , Hist . 
M. Persarmenia was long maintained in peace by the tolerant administration of Mejej , prince of the Gnounians . 
On his death he was succeeded by a persecutor , a Persian , named Ten Schahpour , who attempted to propagate Zoroastrianism by violence . 
Nushirvan , on an appeal to the throne by the Armenian clergy , replaced Ten Schahpour , in , by Veschnas Vahram . 
The new marzban , or governor , was instructed to repress the bigoted Magi in their persecutions of the Armenians , but the Persian converts to Christianity were still exposed to cruel sufferings . 
The most distinguished of them , Izdbouzid , was crucified at Dovin in the presence of a vast multitude . 
The fame of this martyr spread to the West . 
Menander , the historian , not only , as appears by a fragment published by Mai , related this event in his history , but , according to M. St . 
Martin , wrote a tragedy on the subject . 
This , however , is an unwarrantable inference from the phrase which merely means that he related the tragic event in his history . 
An epigram on the same subject , preserved in the Anthology , Jacob's Anth . 
, belongs to the historian . 
Yet Armenia remained in peace under the government of Veschnas Vahram and his successor Varazdat . 
It was in the lesser Armenia . 
Plutarch , in Pompeio , tom . 
In the history of the world I can only perceive two navies on the Caspian . 
He justly observes , that such martial pomp had never been displayed on the Volga . 
This circumstance rests on the statements of Evagrius and Theophylaci Simocatta . 
They are not of sufficient authority to establish a fact so improbable . 
M. For these Persian wars and treaties , see Menander , in Excerpt . 
The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled by Hormouz , or Hormisdas , the eldest or the most favored of his sons . 
By the fatal vicissitude of human affairs , the same scenes were renewed at Ctesiphon , which had been exhibited at Rome after the death of Marcus Antoninus . 
In every word , and in every action , the son of Nushirvan degenerated from the virtues of his father . 
At the same time , the eastern provinces of Persia were invaded by the great khan , who passed the Oxus at the head of three or four hundred thousand Turks . 
The Persian sage was the person who imported from India the game of chess and the fables of Pilpay . 
Such has been the fame of his wisdom and virtues , that the Christians claim him as a believer in the gospel and the Mahometans revere Buzurg as a premature Mussulman . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
See the imitation of Scipio in Theophylact , l . 
the image of Christ , l . 
Hereafter I shall speak more amply of the Christian images I had almost said idols . 
This , if I am not mistaken , is the oldest of divine manufacture but in the next thousand years , many others issued from the same workshop . 
Persia had been lost by a king it was saved by a hero . 
The defection was rapid and universal his loyal slaves were sacrificed to the public fury the troops deserted to the standard of Bahram and the provinces again saluted the deliverer of his country . 
Ragae , or Rei , is mentioned in the Apocryphal book of Tobit as already flourishing , years before Christ , under the Assyrian empire . 
Its grandeur and populousness in the ixth century are exaggerated beyond the bounds of credibility but Rei has been since ruined by wars and the unwholesomeness of the air . 
Chardin , Voyage en Perse , tom . 
The story of the seven Persians is told in the third book of Herodotus and their noble descendants are often mentioned , especially in the fragments of Ctesias . 
is hostile to the spirit of despotism , and it may not seem probable that the seven families could survive the revolutions of eleven hundred years . 
might claim their descent from the bold companions of Darius . 
He is generally called Baharam Choubeen , Baharam , the stick like , probably from his appearance . 
No man in his army was under forty years , and none above fifty . 
who ascended it with much difficulty and danger in his return from Ispahan to the Caspian Sea . 
He proudly displayed the ensigns of royalty but the city and palace of Modain had already escaped from the hand of the tyrant . 
The son of Nushirvan , who had requested to plead in his own defence , was introduced as a criminal into the full assembly of the nobles and satraps . 
But an angry murmur arose in the assembly as soon as he presumed to vindicate his conduct , and to applaud the victories of his reign . 
The Orientals suppose that Bahram convened this assembly and proclaimed Chosroes but Theophylact is , in this instance , more distinct and credible . 
Note Yet Theophylact seems to have seized the opportunity to indulge his propensity for writing orations and the orations read rather like those of a Grecian sophist than of an Eastern assembly . 
M. See the words of Theophylact , l . 
In answer , Chosroes styles himself in genuine Oriental bombast . 
imputes the death of Hormouz to his son , by whose command he was beaten to death with clubs . 
I have followed the milder account of Khondemir and Eutychius , and shall always be content with the slightest evidence to extenuate the crime of parricide . 
Note Malcolm concurs in ascribing his death to Bundawee , vol . 
The Eastern writers generally impute the crime to the uncle St . 
About the third watch of the night , the Roman praefect was informed of his approach , and he introduced the royal stranger to the fortress at the dawn of day . 
The enterprise , however splendid , was less arduous than it might appear . 
Yet the modern Persians still commemorate the exploits of Bahram and some excellent laws have prolonged the duration of his troubled and transitory reign . 
After the battle of Pharsalia , the Pompey of Lucan holds a similar debate . 
A Persarmenian , the brother of Isaac and Armatius , who , after a successful action against Belisarius , deserted from his Persian sovereign , and afterwards served in the Italian war . 
The eunuch who conquered Italy . 
The restorer of Chosroes , who is celebrated in the poem of Corippus as excelsus super omnia vertico agmina . 
morum probitate placens , virtute verendus fulmineus , cautus , vigilans , c . 
The Armenians adhered to Chosroes . 
M. According to Mivkhond and the Oriental writers , Bahram received the daughter of the Khakan in marriage , and commanded a body of Turks in an invasion of Persia . 
Some say that he was assassinated Malcolm adopts the opinion that he was poisoned . 
His sister Gourdieh , the companion of his flight , is celebrated in the Shah Nameh . 
She was afterwards one of the wives of Chosroes . 
M. The restoration of Chosroes was celebrated with feasts and executions and the music of the royal banquet was often disturbed by the groans of dying or mutilated criminals . 
During the vigor of the Roman power , several princes were seated on the throne of Persia by the arms and the authority of the first Caesars . 
But the glory of Maurice was conspicuous in the long and fortunate reign of his son and his ally . 
Experimentis cognitum est Barbaros malle Roma petere reges quam habere . 
The eye of Tacitus seems to have transpierced the camp of the Parthians and the walls of the harem . 
Concerning Nisibis , see St . 
Martin and his Armenian authorities , vol . 
, and Memoires sur l'Armenie , tom . 
M. Sergius and his companion Bacchus , who are said to have suffered in the persecution of Maximian , obtained divine honor in France , Italy , Constantinople , and the East . 
Their tomb at Rasaphe was famous for miracles , and that Syrian town acquired the more honorable name of Sergiopolis . 
They had been sent to the bishop of Antioch , as primate of Syria . 
Martin thinks that they were first written in Syriac , and then translated into the bad Greek in which they appear , vol . 
succeeding compilers , Zonaras and Cedrenus , can only transcribe and abridge . 
appear to have consulted some particular memoirs . 
Were I perfectly satisfied of their authority , I could wish these Oriental materials had been more copious . 
Chapter XLVI Troubles In Persia . 
While the majesty of the Roman name was revived in the East , the prospect of Europe is less pleasing and less glorious . 
The chagan had never seen an elephant and his curiosity was excited by the strange , and perhaps fabulous , portrait of that wonderful animal . 
He wished , at the expense of the emperor , to repose in a golden bed . 
As the successor of the Lombards , the chagan asserted his claim to the important city of Sirmium , the ancient bulwark of the Illyrian provinces . 
He swore by his sword , the symbol of the god of war , that he did not , as the enemy of Rome , construct a bridge upon the Save . 
The bishop of Singidunum presented the gospel , which the chagan received with devout reverence . 
I swear , said he , by the God who has spoken in this holy book , that I have neither falsehood on my tongue , nor treachery in my heart . 
As soon as he rose from his knees , he accelerated the labor of the bridge , and despatched an envoy to proclaim what he no longer wished to conceal . 
Inform the emperor , said the perfidious Baian , that Sirmium is invested on every side . 
Advise his prudence to withdraw the citizens and their effects , and to resign a city which it is now impossible to relieve or defend . 
Singidunum , at the distance of fifty miles , experienced a more cruel fate the buildings were razed , and the vanquished people was condemned to servitude and exile . 
The despair of a captive , whom his country refused to ransom , disclosed to the Avars the invention and practice of military engines . 
whose eight books are much more honorable to the Avar than to the Roman prince . 
the son , perhaps , or the grandson , of Baian . 
Even in the field , the chagan delighted in the use of these aromatics . 
He solicited , as a gift , and received . 
The Europeans of the ruder ages consumed more spices in their meat and drink than is compatible with the delicacy of a modern palate . 
Vie Privee des Francois , tom . 
describes the perjury of Baian and the surrender of Sirmium . 
We have lost his account of the siege , which is commended by Theophylact , l . 
Note Compare throughout Schlozer Nordische Geschichte , p . 
M. See D'Anville , in the Memoires de l'Acad . 
relates their irruption into Friuli , and the captivity of his ancestors , about A. D. . 
Even the helepolis , or movable turret . 
The arms and alliances of the chagan reached to the neighborhood of a western sea , fifteen months' journey from Constantinople . 
The emperor Maurice conversed with some itinerant harpers from that remote country , and only seems to have mistaken a trade for a nation Theophylact , l . 
The Tzechi and Serbi are found together near Mount Caucasus , in Illyricum , and on the lower Elbe . 
Even the wildest traditions of the Bohemians , c . 
, afford some color to his hypothesis . 
See Fredegarius , in the Historians of France , tom . 
Baian did not conceal his proud insensibility . 
That city , if we may credit the resemblance of name and character , was the famous Azimuntium , which had alone repelled the tempest of Attila . 
The military fame of Commentiolus is the object of satire or comedy rather than of serious history , since he was even deficient in the vile and vulgar qualification of personal courage . 
His solemn councils , strange evolutions , and secret orders , always supplied an apology for flight or delay . 
A prince who could promote and support this unworthy favorite must derive no glory from the accidental merit of his colleague Priscus . 
See the march and return of Maurice , in Theophylact , l . 
If he were a writer of taste or genius , we might suspect him of an elegant irony but Theophylact is surely harmless . 
This noble verse , which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage , may prove that Homer was in every light superior to his age and country . 
On the evidence of this fact , which had not occurred to my memory , the candid reader will correct and excuse a note in Chapter XXXIV . 
, note of this History , which hastens the decay of Asimus , or Azimuntium another century of patriotism and valor is cheaply purchased by such a confession . 
See the shameful conduct of Commentiolus , in Theophylact , l . 
See the exploits of Priscus , l . 
As he wrote in the reign of Heraclius , he had no temptation to flatter but his want of judgment renders him diffuse in trifles , and concise in the most interesting facts . 
The theory of war was not more familiar to the camps of Caesar and Trajan , than to those of Justinian and Maurice . 
The iron of Tuscany or Pontus still received the keenest temper from the skill of the Byzantine workmen . 
The magazines were plentifully stored with every species of offensive and defensive arms . 
In the construction and use of ships , engines , and fortifications , the Barbarians admired the superior ingenuity of a people whom they had so often vanquished in the field . 
The science of tactics , the order , evolutions , and stratagems of antiquity , was transcribed and studied in the books of the Greeks and Romans . 
A reformer should be exempt from the suspicion of interest , and he must possess the confidence and esteem of those whom he proposes to reclaim . 
The monarch , always distant and often deceived , was incapable of yielding or persisting , according to the exigence of the moment . 
who promises to speak more fully of his work in its proper place . 
See the mutinies under the reign of Maurice , in Theophylact l iii c . 
Theophylact and Theophanes seem ignorant of the conspiracy and avarice of Maurice . 
from whence Zonaras has transcribed them . 
has followed another computation of the ransom . 
Autonomus , near Chalcedon , from whence he despatched Theodosius , he eldest son , to implore the gratitude and friendship of the Persian monarch . 
In a dispute of precedency between the two factions , his partial judgment inclined in favor of the greens . 
Remember that Maurice is still alive , resounded from the opposite side and the indiscreet clamor of the blues admonished and stimulated the cruelty of the tyrant . 
The ministers of death were despatched to Chalcedon they dragged the emperor from his sanctuary and the five sons of Maurice were successively murdered before the eyes of their agonizing parent . 
At each stroke , which he felt in his heart , he found strength to rehearse a pious ejaculation Thou art just , O Lord ! and thy judgments are righteous . 
The tragic scene was finally closed by the execution of the emperor himself , in the twentieth year of his reign , and the sixty third of his age . 
In that grave , the faults and errors of Maurice were kindly interred . 
His fate alone was remembered and at the end of twenty years , in the recital of the history of Theophylact , the mournful tale was interrupted by the tears of the audience . 
In their clamors against Maurice , the people of Constantinople branded him with the name of Marcionite or Marcionist a heresy . 
Did they only cast out a vague reproach or had the emperor really listened to some obscure teacher of those ancient Gnostics ? The church of St . 
as one of the two harbors of Chalcedon . 
that if it were consistent with the rules of history , he could assign the medical cause . 
into the annual inundations of the Nile , and all the opinions of the Greek philosophers on that subject . 
Without assuming the office of a prince , he renounced the profession of a soldier and the reign of Phocas afflicted Europe with ignominious peace , and Asia with desolating war . 
His savage temper was inflamed by passion , hardened by fear , and exasperated by resistance of reproach . 
In the massacre of the Imperial family , the mercy , or rather the discretion , of Phocas had spared these unhappy females , and they were decently confined to a private house . 
But the spirit of the empress Constantina , still mindful of her father , her husband , and her sons , aspired to freedom and revenge . 
At the dead of night , she escaped to the sanctuary of St . 
Sophia but her tears , and the gold of her associate Germanus , were insufficient to provoke an insurrection . 
The discovery or the suspicion of a second conspiracy , dissolved the engagements , and rekindled the fury , of Phocas . 
After such an example , it would be superfluous to enumerate the names and sufferings of meaner victims . 
Benignitatem vestrae pietatis ad Imperiale fastigium pervenisse gaudemus . 
Laetentur coeli et exultet terra , et de vestris benignis actibus universae republicae populus nunc usque vehementer afflictus hilarescat , c . 
Cardinal Baronius justifies the pope at the expense of the fallen emperor . 
The images of Phocas were destroyed but even the malice of his enemies would suffer one copy of such a portrait or caricature to escape the flames . 
With the Christian daughters , Anastasia and Theocteste , I am surprised to find the Pagan name of Cleopatra . 
Some of the cruelties of Phocas are marked by Theophylact , l . 
George of Pisidia , the poet of Heraclius , styles him . 
The latter epithet is just but the corrupter of life was easily vanquished . 
Chapter XLVI Troubles In Persia . 
Wilt thou govern better ? were the last words of the despair of Phocas . 
His coronation was accompanied by that of his wife Eudoxia and their posterity , till the fourth generation , continued to reign over the empire of the East . 
It was more difficult to trust the fidelity of Crispus , whose recent services were recompensed by the command of the Cappadocian army . 
His arrogance soon provoked , and seemed to excuse , the ingratitude of his new sovereign . 
that I have been tempted to identify the son in law of Phocas with the hero five times victorious over the Avars . 
Cedrenus adds , which Heraclius bore as a banner in the first Persian expedition . 
is at a loss to determine whether this picture was an original or a copy . 
See the tyranny of Phocas and the elevation of Heraclius , in Chron . 
Even after his death the republic was afflicted by the crimes of Phocas , which armed with a pious cause the most formidable of her enemies . 
It is not improbable , that a native subject of Persia should encourage his master and his friend to deliver and possess the provinces of Asia . 
The hero could not depend on the faith of a tyrant and the tyrant was conscious how little he deserved the obedience of a hero . 
Narses was removed from his military command he reared an independent standard at Hierapolis , in Syria he was betrayed by fallacious promises , and burnt alive in the market place of Constantinople . 
by Theophylact Simocatta , ex praefect , a native of Egypt . 
gently reproves the affectation and allegory of the style . 
His preface is a dialogue between Philosophy and History they seat themselves under a plane tree , and the latter touches her lyre . 
Christianis nec pactum esse , nec fidem nec foedus . 
quod si ulla illis fides fuisset , regem suum non occidissent . 
supply a regular , but imperfect , series of the Persian war and for any additional facts I quote my special authorities . 
that the son of Maurice , who was saved from the assassins , lived and died a monk on Mount Sinai . 
After the reduction of Galilee , and the region beyond the Jordan , whose resistance appears to have delayed the fate of the capital , Jerusalem itself was taken by assault . 
But Egypt itself , the only province which had been exempt , since the time of Diocletian , from foreign and domestic war , was again subdued by the successors of Cyrus . 
Abulpharagius , are more sincere and accurate . 
The years of the Persian war are disposed in the chronology of Pagi . 
whose one hundred and twenty nine homilies are still extant , if what no one reads may be said to be extant . 
sufficient extracts of this edifying work . 
, which have been sometimes confounded by transcribers , and sometimes by critics . 
But the provinces , which had been fashioned by the habits of six hundred years to the virtues and vices of the Roman government , supported with reluctance the yoke of the Barbarians . 
He enjoyed with ostentation the fruits of victory , and frequently retired from the hardships of war to the luxury of the palace . 
He rejected the invitation , and tore the epistle . 
It is thus , exclaimed the Arabian prophet , that God will tear the kingdom , and reject the supplications of Chosroes . 
The genuine acts of St . 
de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
The ruins of these scenes of Khoosroo's magnificence have been visited by Sir R. K. Porter . 
At the ruins of Tokht i Bostan , he saw a gorgeous picture of a hunt , singularly illustrative of this passage . 
Kisra Shirene , which he afterwards examined , appears to have been the palace of Dastagerd . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
date this embassy in the viith year of the Hegira , which commences A. D. , May . 
places this embassy about A. D. , soon after the conquest of Palestine . 
Yet Mahomet would scarcely have ventured so soon on so bold a step . 
! Khoosroo Purveez was encamped on the banks of the Karasoo River when he received the letter of Mahomed . 
He tore the letter and threw it into the Karasoo . 
For this action , the moderate author of the Zeenut ul Tuarikh calls him a wretch , and rejoices in all his subsequent misfortunes . 
I remarked to a Persian , when encamped near the Karasoo , in , that the banks were very high , which must make it difficult to apply its waters to irrigation . 
M. See the xxxth chapter of the Koran , entitled the Greeks . 
with wicked intentions , labors to establish this evident prophecy of a future event , which must , in his opinion , embarrass the Christian polemics . 
Sophia , and extorted a solemn oath , that he would live and die with the people whom God had intrusted to his care . 
The chagan was encamped in the plains of Thrace but he dissembled his perfidious designs , and solicited an interview with the emperor near the town of Heraclea . 
But the lieutenant of Chosroes had fatally mistaken the intentions of his master . 
I will never give peace to the emperor of Rome , till he had abjured his crucified God , and embraced the worship of the sun . 
Paul Warnefrid , de Gestis Langobardorum , l . 
Muratori , Annali d'Italia , tom . 
The Paschal Chronicle , which sometimes introduces fragments of history into a barren list of names and dates , gives the best account of the treason of the Avars , p . 
The number of captives is added by Nicephorus . 
likewise constitute the merit of the Paschal Chronicle , which was composed , perhaps at Alexandria , under the reign of Heraclius . 
Of the characters conspicuous in history , that of Heraclius is one of the most extraordinary and inconsistent . 
It was the duty of the Byzantine historians to have revealed the causes of his slumber and vigilance . 
Two days after the festival of Easter , the emperor , exchanging his purple for the simple garb of a penitent and warrior , gave the signal of his departure . 
is happy to observe , that of two sons , its incestuous fruit , the elder was marked by Providence with a stiff neck , the younger with the loss of hearing . 
who states the opinions , acquits the pusillanimous counsellors of any sinister views . 
Would he have excused the proud and contemptuous admonition of Crispus ? George Pisid . 
The Orientals are not less fond of remarking this strange vicissitude and I remember some story of Khosrou Parviz , not very unlike the ring of Polycrates of Samos . 
Yet the loan was arbitrary , since it was collected by soldiers , who were ordered to leave the patriarch of Alexandria no more than one hundred pounds of gold . 
two hundred years afterwards , speaks with ill humor of this contribution , which the church of Constantinople might still feel . 
This circumstance need not excite our surprise . 
The muster roll of a regiment , even in time of peace , is renewed in less than twenty or twenty five years . 
From all sides , the scattered garrisons of the maritime cities and the mountains might repair with speed and safety to his Imperial standard . 
In the camp of Issus , the Roman general reformed the sloth and disorder of the veterans , and educated the new recruits in the knowledge and practice of military virtue . 
By a false motion , which seemed to threaten Armenia , he drew them , against their wishes , to a general action . 
His soul was superior to the vanity of entertaining Constantinople with an imperfect triumph but the presence of the emperor was indispensably required to soothe the restless and rapacious spirit of the Avars . 
has fixed this important point of the Syrian and Cilician gates . 
They are elegantly described by Xenophon , who marched through them a thousand years before . 
and eight or ten from Antioch . 
Voyage en Turquie et en Perse , par M. Otter , tom . 
Heraclius might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero Castra habuimus ea ipsa quae contra Darium habuerat apud Issum Alexander , imperator haud paulo melior quam aut tu aut ego . 
Issus , a rich and flourishing city in the time of Xenophon , was ruined by the prosperity of Alexandria or Scanderoon , on the other side of the bay . 
an intricate spiral motion of the army . 
that the military descriptions of George of Pisidia are transcribed in the Tactics of the emperor Leo . 
described in three acroaseis , or cantos , the first expedition of Heraclius . 
published at Rome but such vague and declamatory praise is far from corresponding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi , D'Anville , c . 
When the legions of Lucullus and Pompey first passed the Euphrates , they blushed at their easy victory over the natives of Armenia . 
A purer spirit of religion was shown in the relief and deliverance of fifty thousand captives . 
carries Heraclius swiftly into Armenia . 
though he confounds the two expeditions , defines the province of Lazica . 
has given the men , with the more probable station of Trebizond . 
From Constantinople to Trebizond , with a fair wind , four or five days from thence to Erzerom , five to Erivan , twelve to Taurus , ten in all , thirty two . 
who was perfectly conversant with the roads of Asia . 
gives the more correct distance of fifty three parasangs , each of paces , between Erivan and Tauris . 
He discovers the situation of Gandzaca , Thebarma , Dastagerd , c . 
, with admirable skill and learning but the obscure campaign of he passes over in silence . 
Virgil , Aeneid , viii . 
Voyages de Chardin , tom . 
The number of , inhabitants is reduced by Chardin from , , , the popular estimate . 
He opened the gospel , and applied or interpreted the first casual passage to the name and situation of Albania . 
with some texts from his , or their , Zendavesta . 
labored to prove the identity of these two cities but according to M. St . 
, not with perfect success . 
called Ariema in the ancient Pehlvi books , is considered , both by the followers of Zoroaster and by the Mahometans , as his birthplace . 
It is situated in the southern part of Aderbidjan . 
M. Chapter XLVI Troubles In Persia . 
Amidst the glories of the succeeding campaign , Heraclius is almost lost to our eyes , and to those of the Byzantine historians . 
The Colchian allies prepared to desert his standard and the fears of the bravest veterans were expressed , rather than concealed , by their desponding silence . 
Be not terrified , said the intrepid Heraclius , by the multitude of your foes . 
With the aid of Heaven , one Roman may triumph over a thousand Barbarians . 
But if we devote our lives for the salvation of our brethren , we shall obtain the crown of martyrdom , and our immortal reward will be liberally paid by God and posterity . 
These magnanimous sentiments were supported by the vigor of his actions . 
On the return of spring , the emperor traversed in seven days the mountains of Curdistan , and passed without resistance the rapid stream of the Tigris . 
That river , an impetuous torrent , was about three hundred feet broad the bridge was fortified with strong turrets and the banks were lined with Barbarian archers . 
M. D'Anville does not attempt to seek , the Salban , Tarantum , territory of the Huns , c . 
an insufficient author , names Asphahan and Casbin is most probably the city of Sapor . 
celebrates with truth the persevering courage of the three campaigns against the Persians . 
Instead of skirmishing on the frontier , the two monarchs who disputed the empire of the East aimed their desperate strokes at the heart of their rival . 
But the revenge and ambition of Chosroes exhausted his kingdom and the new levies of subjects , strangers , and slaves , were divided into three formidable bodies . 
Presume no longer to tempt your master with a partial and inadequate ransom your wealth and your city are the only presents worthy of my acceptance . 
discriminates the names and actions of five Persian generals who were successively sent against Heraclius . 
clearly indicates that the old chagan lived till the reign of Heraclius , and that his son and successor was born of a foreign mother . 
has given another interpretation to this passage . 
Yet I much question whether the senate and people of Constantinople laughed at this message of the chagan . 
to commemorate this auspicious event . 
After the division of his army , Heraclius prudently retired to the banks of the Phasis , from whence he maintained a defensive war against the fifty thousand gold spears of Persia . 
The power of the Chozars prevailed in the viith , viiith , and ixth centuries . 
They were known to the Greeks , the Arabs , and under the name of Kosa , to the Chinese themselves . 
Note Moses of Chorene speaks of an invasion of Armenia by the Khazars in the second century , l . 
Martin suspects them to be the same with the Hunnish nation of the Acatires or Agazzires . 
They are called by the Greek historians Eastern Turks like the Madjars and other Hunnish or Finnish tribes , they had probably received some admixture from the genuine Turkish races . 
says that their language was like the Bulgarian , and considers them a people of Finnish or Hunnish race . 
sur les Langues Tartares , tom . 
the th of October of the same year . 
At this time she was about fifteen . 
gives some curious and probable facts but his numbers are rather too high , Romans assembled at Edessa , Persians killed at Nineveh . 
The recovery of three hundred Roman standards , and the deliverance of the numerous captives of Edessa and Alexandria , reflect a purer glory on the arms of Heraclius . 
for the circumference of Nineveh . 
which ceased to exist years before Christ . 
The western suburb still subsisted , and is mentioned under the name of Mosul in the first age of the Arabian khalifs . 
passed over Nineveh without perceiving it . 
He mistook for a ridge of hills the old rampart of brick or earth . 
It is said to have been feet high , flanked with towers , each of the height of feet . 
inter tot bella , opima parta sunt spolia , adeo rara ejus fortuna decoris . 
are so accurate and authentic , that he must have followed the original letters of the emperor , of which the Paschal Chronicle has preserved a very curious specimen . 
In the battle of Nineveh , his courage might have taught the Persians to vanquish , or he might have fallen with honor by the lance of a Roman emperor . 
was rudely arrested , eighteen sons were massacred before his face , and he was thrown into a dungeon , where he expired on the fifth day . 
The Schirin of Persian poetry . 
The number of Persian poems on the subject may be seen in M. von Hammer's preface to his poem of Schirin . 
M The words of Theophanes are remarkable . 
Young princes who discover a propensity to war should repeatedly transcribe and translate such salutary texts . 
Martin considers the name Siroes , Schirquieh of Schirwey , derived from the word schir , royal . 
According to Le Beau , this massacre was perpetrated at Mahuza in Babylonia , not in the presence of Chosroes . 
fifteen the inedited Modjmel alte warikh , agreeing with Gibbon , eighteen , with their names . 
Note The Mahometans show no more charity towards the memory of Chosroes or Khoosroo Purveez . 
M. ! ! Yet Gibbon himself places the flight and death of Yesdegird Ill . 
, the last king of Persia , in . 
The famous era of Yesdegird dates from his accession , June . 
The conditions of the treaty were easily defined and faithfully executed . 
The return of Heraclius from Tauris to Constantinople was a perpetual triumph and after the exploits of six glorious campaigns , he peaceably enjoyed the Sabbath of his toils . 
unfortunately ends before he proceeds to business . 
The treaty appears in its execution in the histories of Theophanes and Nicephorus . 
, has added some lines , but no clear sense can be made out of the fragment . 
M. The burden of Corneille's song , Montrez Heraclius au peuple qui l'attend , is much better suited to the present occasion . 
The metaphor of the Sabbath is used somewhat profanely by these Byzantine Christians . 
The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumph of a very different kind , the restitution of the true cross to the holy sepulchre . 
Yet the deliverer of the East was indigent and feeble . 
to the devotion of Queen Sira . 
of the Jews , iii . 
M. George of Pisidia , Acroas . 
contra Persas , , c . 
I neglect the meaner parallels of Daniel , Timotheus , c . 
Chosroes and the chagan were of course compared to Belshazzar , Pharaoh , the old serpent , c . 
gives this number but either the Persian must be read for the Isaurian war , or this passage does not belong to the emperor Heraclius . 
Part I. Theological History Of The Doctrine Of The Incarnation . 
The Human And Divine Nature Of Christ . 
Enmity Of The Patriarchs Of Alexandria And Constantinople . 
Third General Council Of Ephesus . 
Fourth General Council Of Chalcedon . 
State Of The Oriental Sects I. The Nestorians . 
V. The Copts And Abyssinians . 
After the extinction of paganism , the Christians in peace and piety might have enjoyed their solitary triumph . 
But the principle of discord was alive in their bosom , and they were more solicitous to explore the nature , than to practice the laws , of their founder . 
But the numberless passages of antiquity which I have seen with my own eyes , are compiled , digested and illustrated by Petavius and Le Clerc , by Beausobre and Mosheim . 
books the first of history , the remainder of controversy and doctrine . 
of M. de Beausobre is a treasure of ancient philosophy and theology . 
The learned historian spins with incomparable art the systematic thread of opinion , and transforms himself by turns into the person of a saint , a sage , or a heretic . 
A copious table of contents will direct the reader to any point that he wishes to examine . 
Less profound than Petavius , less independent than Le Clerc , less ingenious than Beausobre , the historian Mosheim is full , rational , correct , and moderate . 
see the Nazarenes and Ebionites , p . 
The Gnostics in general , p . 
Yet the most charitable criticism must refuse these sectaries any knowledge of the pure and proper divinity of Christ . 
Educated in the school of Jewish prophecy and prejudice , they had never been taught to elevate their hopes above a human and temporal Messiah . 
The familiar companions of Jesus of Nazareth conversed with their friend and countryman , who , in all the actions of rational and animal life , appeared of the same species with themselves . 
His progress from infancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regular increase in stature and wisdom and after a painful agony of mind and body , he expired on the cross . 
The miracles of the gospel could not astonish a people who held with intrepid faith the more splendid prodigies of the Mosaic law . 
The prophets of ancient days had cured diseases , raised the dead , divided the sea , stopped the sun , and ascended to heaven in a fiery chariot . 
And the metaphorical style of the Hebrews might ascribe to a saint and martyr the adoptive title of Son of God . 
Note See on this passage Bp . 
Kaye , Justin Martyr , p . 
M. Note Most of the modern writers , who have closely examined this subject , and who will not be suspected of any theological bias , Rosenmuller on Isaiah ix . 
, and on Psalm xlv . 
, and Bertholdt , Christologia Judaeorum , c . 
, rightly ascribe much higher notions of the Messiah to the Jews . 
are obliged to confess that the Divinity of Christ is rarely mentioned by himself or his apostles . 
But the secret and authentic history has been recorded in several copies of the Gospel according to St . 
Matthew , which these sectaries long preserved in the original Hebrew , as the sole evidence of their faith . 
But the degrees of purity and corruption are almost immeasurable . 
Omnipotence could enlarge the human faculties of Christ to the extend of is celestial office . 
The two first chapters of St . 
and the miraculous conception is one of the last articles which Dr . 
Priestley has curtailed from his scanty creed . 
It is devoutly believed by the Catholics , and admitted by Casaubon , Grotius , and Isaac Vossius , among the Protestant critics . 
But this Hebrew Gospel of St . 
Matthew is most unaccountably lost and we may accuse the diligence or fidelity of the primitive churches , who have preferred the unauthorized version of some nameless Greek . 
Erasmus and his followers , who respect our Greek text as the original Gospel , deprive themselves of the evidence which declares it to be the work of an apostle . 
, and the Prolegomena of Mill and Wetstein to the New Testament . 
accounts both simply and naturally for the loss of a composition , which had become of no use nor does it follow that the Greek Gospel of St . 
from the intricacies of dialogue , which sometimes amuse , and often perplex , the readers of the Phoedrus , the Phoedon , and the Laws of Plato . 
and a modern Rabbi is modestly assured , that Hermes , Pythagoras , Plato , c . 
, derived their metaphysics from his illustrious countrymen . 
Four different opinions have been entertained concerning the origin of human souls . 
That they are eternal and divine . 
That they were created in a separate state of existence , before their union with the body . 
That they have been propagated from the original stock of Adam , who contained in himself the mental as well as the corporeal seed of his posterity . 
That each soul is occasionally created and embodied in the moment of conception . 
The last of these sentiments appears to have prevailed among the moderns and our spiritual history is grown less sublime , without becoming more intelligible . 
Some of the Rabbis attribute one and the same soul to the persons of Adam , David , and the Messiah . 
But the prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent pravity of matter infected the primitive churches of the East . 
In the system of the Gnostics , the Jehovah of Israel , the Creator of this lower world , was a rebellious , or at least an ignorant , spirit . 
Apostolis adhuc in seculo superstitibus , apud Judaeam Christi sanguine recente , Phantasma domini corpus asserebatur . 
The epistle of Ignatius to the Smyrnaeans , and even the Gospel according to St . 
John , are levelled against the growing error of the Docetes , who had obtained too much credit in the world , John , iv . 
The five books of Irenaeus exist only in barbarous Latin but the original might perhaps be found in some monastery of Greece . 
Devoid of its most essential properties , it might be exempt from the attributes and infirmities of the flesh . 
Jesus might share the repasts of his disciples without being subject to the calls of thirst or hunger and his virgin purity was never sullied by the involuntary stains of sensual concupiscence . 
If we define the place , we must describe the figure , of the Deity . 
Our experience , perhaps our vanity , represents the powers of reason and virtue under a human form . 
Augustin remained a Manichaean , he was scandalized by the anthropomorphism of the vulgar Catholics . 
Such were the fleeting shadows of the Docetes . 
A more substantial , though less simple , hypothesis , was contrived by Cerinthus of Asia , who dared to oppose the last of the apostles . 
Their murmurs were variously silenced by the sectaries who espoused and modified the double system of Cerinthus . 
It was alleged , that when Jesus was nailed to the cross , he was endowed with a miraculous apathy of mind and body , which rendered him insensible of his apparent sufferings . 
accidentally met in the public bath of Ephesus but the apostle fled from the heretic , lest the building should tumble on their heads . 
This foolish story , reprobated by Dr . 
on the evidence of Polycarp , and was probably suited to the time and residence of Cerinthus . 
The obsolete , yet probably the true , reading of John , iv . 
alludes to the double nature of that primitive heretic . 
Note Griesbach asserts that all the Greek Mss. , all the translators , and all the Greek fathers , support the common reading . 
M The Valentinians embraced a complex , and almost incoherent , system . 
Both Christ and Jesus were aeons , though of different degrees the one acting as the rational soul , the other as the divine spirit of the Savior . 
At the time of the passion , they both retired , and left only a sensitive soul and a human body . 
Even that body was aethereal , and perhaps apparent . 
Such are the laborious conclusions of Mosheim . 
But I much doubt whether the Latin translator understood Irenaeus , and whether Irenaeus and the Valetinians understood themselves . 
In the Messiah , such sentiments could be only apparent and such ill sounding words were properly explained as the application of a psalm and prophecy . 
All those who believe the immateriality of the soul , a specious and noble tenet , must confess , from their present experience , the incomprehensible union of mind and matter . 
These alarming consequences were affirmed with unblushing simplicity by Apollinaris , bishop of Laodicea , and one of the luminaries of the church . 
Yet as the profound doctor had been terrified at his own rashness , Apollinaris was heard to mutter some faint accents of excuse and explanation . 
Her judgment at length inclined in their favor the heresy of Apollinaris was condemned , and the separate congregations of his disciples were proscribed by the Imperial laws . 
But his principles were secretly entertained in the monasteries of Egypt , and his enemies felt the hatred of Theophilus and Cyril , the successive patriarchs of Alexandria . 
This strong expression might be justified by the language of St . 
but we are deceived by our modern Bibles . 
John , is admirably detected by Sir Isaac Newton . 
I have weighed the arguments , and may yield to the authority of the first of philosophers , who was deeply skilled in critical and theological studies . 
Note It should be Griesbach in loc . 
The weight of authority is so much against the common reading in both these points , that they are no longer urged by prudent controversialists . 
Would Gibbon's deference for the first of philosophers have extended to all his theological conclusions ? M. For Apollinaris and his sect , see Socrates , l . 
Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
The contemporary saint always mentions the bishop of Laodicea as a friend and brother . 
In the beginning of the fifth century , the unity of the two natures was the prevailing doctrine of the church . 
On all sides , it was confessed , that the mode of their coexistence could neither be represented by our ideas , nor expressed by our language . 
Impelled by religious frenzy , they fled with adverse haste from the error which they mutually deemed most destructive of truth and salvation . 
The poverty of ideas and language tempted them to ransack art and nature for every possible comparison , and each comparison mislead their fancy in the explanation of an incomparable mystery . 
As soon as they beheld the twilight of sense and heresy , they started , measured back their steps , and were again involved in the gloom of impenetrable orthodoxy . 
that the Melchites , Jacobites , Nestorians , c . 
, agree in the doctrine , and differ only in the expression . 
The name of Cyril of Alexandria is famous in controversial story , and the title of saint is a mark that his opinions and his party have finally prevailed . 
were still fixed on the world and the call of Theophilus , who summoned him to the tumult of cities and synods , was too readily obeyed by the aspiring hermit . 
With the approbation of his uncle , he assumed the office , and acquired the fame , of a popular preacher . 
The death of Theophilus expanded and realized the hopes of his nephew . 
avows his contempt for the genius and writings of Cyril . 
in words of respect , teaches us to despise them . 
A grammarian is named by Socrates . 
The prize was not unworthy of his ambition . 
Ardent in the prosecution of heresy , Cyril auspiciously opened his reign by oppressing the Novatians , the most innocent and harmless of the sectaries . 
The interdiction of their religious worship appeared in his eyes a just and meritorious act and he confiscated their holy vessels , without apprehending the guilt of sacrilege . 
Without any legal sentence , without any royal mandate , the patriarch , at the dawn of day , led a seditious multitude to the attack of the synagogues . 
Perhaps he might plead the insolence of their prosperity , and their deadly hatred of the Christians , whose blood they had recently shed in a malicious or accidental tumult . 
The zeal of Cyril exposed him to the penalties of the Julian law but in a feeble government and a superstitious age , he was secure of impunity , and even of praise . 
A rumor was spread among the Christians , that the daughter of Theon was the only obstacle to the reconciliation of the praefect and the archbishop and that obstacle was speedily removed . 
The just progress of inquiry and punishment was stopped by seasonable gifts but the murder of Hypatia has imprinted an indelible stain on the character and religion of Cyril of Alexandria . 
The Parabolani of Alexandria were a charitable corporation , instituted during the plague of Gallienus , to visit the sick and to bury the dead . 
They gradually enlarged , abused , and sold the privileges of their order . 
Their outrageous conduct during the reign of Cyril provoked the emperor to deprive the patriarch of their nomination , and to restrain their number to five or six hundred . 
But these restraints were transient and ineffectual . 
See the Theodosian Code , l . 
For Theon and his daughter Hypatia . 
Her article in the Lexicon of Suidas is curious and original . 
celebrates her knowledge and eloquence . 
by her friend and disciple the philosophic bishop Synesius . 
Oyster shells were plentifully strewed on the sea beach before the Caesareum . 
and the most reluctant bigotry is compelled to copy an historian who coolly styles the murderers of Hypatia . 
Superstition , perhaps , would more gently expiate the blood of a virgin , than the banishment of a saint and Cyril had accompanied his uncle to the iniquitous synod of the Oak . 
which oppressed the metropolitans of Europe and Asia , invaded the provinces of Antioch and Alexandria , and measured their diocese by the limits of the empire . 
Give me , O Caesar ! he exclaimed , give me the earth purged of heretics , and I will give you in exchange the kingdom of heaven . 
Exterminate with me the heretics and with you I will exterminate the Persians . 
But the sword of persecution which Nestorius so furiously wielded was soon turned against his own breast . 
Religion was the pretence but , in the judgment of a contemporary saint , ambition was the genuine motive of episcopal warfare . 
to the personal intercession of the Virgin . 
and Marcellinus seems to have applied the eloquentiae satis , sapi entiae parum , of Sallust . 
and Pagi , Critica , tom . 
His words are strong and scandalous . 
Isidore is a saint , but he never became a bishop and I half suspect that the pride of Diogenes trampled on the pride of Plato . 
At these blasphemous sounds , the pillars of the sanctuary were shaken . 
From the East , more especially from Antioch , he obtained the ambiguous counsels of toleration and silence , which were addressed to both parties while they favored the cause of Nestorius . 
But the Vatican received with open arms the messengers of Egypt . 
has detected the use , which , in the ivth , vth , and vith centuries , discriminates the school of Diodorus of Tarsus and his Nestorian disciples . 
Deipara as in zoology we familiarly speak of oviparous and viviparous animals . 
ascribes to Eusebius of Caesarea and the Arians . 
The jealousy of the Nestorians and Monophysites has guarded the purity of their text . 
In the article of Nestorius , Bayle has scattered some loose philosophy on the worship of the Virgin Mary . 
The item of the Greeks , a mutual loan or transfer of the idioms or properties of each nature to the other of infinity to man , passibility to God , c . 
See Ducange , C. P. Christiana , l . 
and three more respectable judges will not easily be found . 
the guilt and error of the Nestorians . 
But his adversary Cyril was more powerful in the weapons both of the flesh and of the spirit . 
He had contracted an intimate alliance with Memnon , bishop of Ephesus . 
Mark and the mother of God . 
Impatient of a delay , which he stigmatized as voluntary and culpable , Cyril announced the opening of the synod sixteen days after the festival of Pentecost . 
Sixty eight bishops , twenty two of metropolitan rank , defended his cause by a modest and temperate protest they were excluded from the councils of their brethren . 
Candidian , in the emperor's name , requested a delay of four days the profane magistrate was driven with outrage and insult from the assembly of the saints . 
The Christians of the four first centuries were ignorant of the death and burial of Mary . 
exhibit a lively picture of the blind , obstinate servitude of the bishops of Egypt to their patriarch . 
Civil or ecclesiastical business detained the bishops at Antioch till the th of May . 
Ephesus was at the distance of thirty days' journey and ten days more may be fairly allowed for accidents and repose . 
and the orthodox critics do not find it an easy task to defend the purity of the Greek or Latin copies of the Acts . 
On the fifth day , the triumph was clouded by the arrival and indignation of the Eastern bishops . 
His throne was distant and inaccessible but they instantly resolved to bestow on the flock of Ephesus the blessing of a faithful shepherd . 
By the vigilance of Memnon , the churches were shut against them , and a strong garrison was thrown into the cathedral . 
During a busy period of three months , the emperor tried every method , except the most effectual means of indifference and contempt , to reconcile this theological quarrel . 
But the Orientals refused to yield , and the Catholics , proud of their numbers and of their Latin allies , rejected all terms of union or toleration . 
The patience of the meek Theodosius was provoked and he dissolved in anger this episcopal tumult , which at the distance of thirteen centuries assumes the venerable aspect of the third oecumenical council . 
God is my witness , said the pious prince , that I am not the author of this confusion . 
His providence will discern and punish the guilty . 
Return to your provinces , and may your private virtues repair the mischief and scandal of your meeting . 
They returned to their provinces but the same passions which had distracted the synod of Ephesus were diffused over the Eastern world . 
After the coalition of John and Cyril these invectives were mutually forgotten . 
The Byzantine pontiff had instilled into the royal ear a baleful prejudice against the character and conduct of his Egyptian rival . 
At the stern command of his sovereign . 
Without expecting the royal license , he escaped from his guards , precipitately embarked , deserted the imperfect synod , and retired to his episcopal fortress of safety and independence . 
But his artful emissaries , both in the court and city , successfully labored to appease the resentment , and to conciliate the favor , of the emperor . 
From the first moment of their monastic life , they had never mingled with the world , or trod the profane ground of the city . 
But in this awful moment of the danger of the church , their vow was superseded by a more sublime and indispensable duty . 
At the same time , every avenue of the throne was assaulted with gold . 
Under the decent names of eulogies and benedictions , the courtiers of both sexes were bribed according to the measure of their power and rapaciousness . 
Yet the Egyptian could not boast of a glorious or decisive victory . 
I should be curious to know how much Nestorius paid for these expressions , so mortifying to his rival . 
Eutyches , the heresiarch Eutyches , is honorably named by Cyril as a friend , a saint , and the strenuous defender of the faith . 
His brother , the abbot Dalmatus , is likewise employed to bind the emperor and all his chamberlains terribili conjuratione . 
Clerici qui hic sunt contristantur , quod ecclesia Alexandrina nudata sit hujus causa turbelae et debet praeter illa quae hinc transmissa sint auri libras mille quingentas . 
Et nunc ei scriptum est ut praestet sed de tua ecclesia praesta avaritiae quorum nosti , c . 
The mask is almost dropped , and the saints speak the honest language of interest and confederacy . 
The most patient reader will thank me for compressing so much nonsense and falsehood in a few lines . 
The rash and obstinate Nestorius , before the end of the synod , was oppressed by Cyril , betrayed by the court , and faintly supported by his Eastern friends . 
But in the silence of his cell , the degraded patriarch could no longer resume the innocence and security of a private monk . 
Secluded from the church and from the world , the exile was still pursued by the rage of bigotry and war . 
Humanity may drop a tear on the fate of Nestorius yet justice must observe , that he suffered the persecution which he had approved and inflicted . 
justify the appearance of a voluntary resignation , which is asserted by Ebed Jesu , a Nestorian writer , apud Asseman . 
The odious name of Simonians , which was affixed to the disciples of this . 
Yet these were Christians ! who differed only in names and in shadows . 
to those happy spots which are discriminated by water and verdure from the Libyan sands . 
Three of these under the common name of Oasis , or Alvahat . 
The temple of Jupiter Ammon . 
The middle Oasis , three days' journey to the west of Lycopolis . 
The southern , where Nestorius was banished in the first climate , and only three days' journey from the confines of Nubia . 
The Oasis of Sivah has been visited by Mons . 
The little Oasis , that of El Kassar , was visited and described by Belzoni . 
The great Oasis , and its splendid ruins , have been well described in the travels of Sir A. Edmonstone . 
To these must be added another Western Oasis also visited by Sir A. Edmonstone . 
affirms , that Nestorius died after an exile of seven years , and consequently ten years before the synod of Chalcedon . 
who mentions , in the xiith century , the ruins and the sugar canes of Akmim . 
represent the credulity of the xth and xiith centuries . 
for some extracts from the letters of Nestorius but the lively picture of his sufferings is treated with insult by the hard and stupid fanatic . 
The death of the Alexandrian primate , after a reign of thirty two years , abandoned the Catholics to the intemperance of zeal and the abuse of victory . 
May those who divide Christ be divided with the sword , may they be hewn in pieces , may they be burned alive ! were the charitable wishes of a Christian synod . 
Do you mean to raise a sedition ? exclaimed the relentless tyrant . 
Dixi Cyrillum dum viveret , auctoritate sua effecisse , ne Eutychianismus et Monophysitarum error in nervum erumperet idque verum puto . 
The learned but cautious Jablonski did not always speak the whole truth . 
an excellent key to his dissertations on the Nestorian controversy ! At the request of Dioscorus , those who were not able to roar , stretched out their hands . 
At Chalcedon , the Orientals disclaimed these exclamations but the Egyptians more consistently declared . 
who affirms that Dioscorus kicked like a wild ass . 
is more cautious and the Acts of Chalcedon , which lavish the names of homicide , Cain , c . 
, do not justify so pointed a charge . 
The faith of Egypt had prevailed but the vanquished party was supported by the same pope who encountered without fear the hostile rage of Attila and Genseric . 
His provincial synod annulled the irregular proceedings of Ephesus but as this step was itself irregular , he solicited the convocation of a general council in the free and orthodox provinces of Italy . 
A quarter of a mile from the Thracian Bosphorus , the church of St . 
The gospel was ostentatiously displayed in the centre , but the rule of faith was defined by the Papal and Imperial ministers , who moderated the thirteen sessions of the council of Chalcedon . 
to attend to the summons of the synod . 
and at requires some attention to disengage this double involution . 
The annals of Baronius and Pagi will accompany me much further on my long and laborious journey . 
although the application was unknown to the editor Brodaeus . 
had almost produced a schism among the Catholic bishops . 
The legates threatened , the emperor was absolute , and a committee of eighteen bishops prepared a new decree , which was imposed on the reluctant assembly . 
Cyril and the road to paradise , a bridge as sharp as a razor , was suspended over the abyss by the master hand of the theological artist . 
Those who reverence the infallibility of synods , may try to ascertain their sense . 
The leading bishops were attended by partial or careless scribes , who dispersed their copies round the world . 
a famous monastery of Latins , Greeks , and Syrians . 
, and Pagi , Critica , tom . 
Evagrius and Liberatus present only the placid face of the synod , and discreetly slide over these embers , suppositos cineri doloso . 
Far different was the temper of the Greeks and Egyptians under the orthodox reigns of Leo and Marcian . 
After the disgrace and exile of Dioscorus , the Egyptians still regretted their spiritual father and detested the usurpation of his successor , who was introduced by the fathers of Chalcedon . 
On the third day before the festival of Easter , the patriarch was besieged in the cathedral , and murdered in the baptistery . 
Perhaps an extravagant fable of the times may conceal an allegorical picture of these fanatics , who tortured each other and themselves . 
He waged a double war against the enemies of the church , and wounded either foe with the darts of his adversary . 
Against Nestorius he seemed to introduce Monophysites against Eutyches he appeared to countenance the Nestorians . 
Such is the hyperbolic language of the Henoticon . 
See the Chronicle of Victor Tunnunensis , in the Lectiones Antiquae of Canisius , republished by Basnage , tom . 
It is in ecclesiastical story , that Zeno appears least contemptible and I am not able to discern any Manichaean or Eutychian guilt in the generous saying of Anastasius . 
That it was unworthy of an emperor to persecute the worshippers of Christ and the citizens of Rome . 
A solemn anathema is pronounced against Nestorius and Eutyches against all heretics by whom Christ is divided , or confounded , or reduced to a phantom . 
Without defining the number or the article of the word nature , the pure system of St . 
Under this ambiguous expression , the friends and the enemies of the last synod might unite in a silent embrace . 
For accepting the communion of Alexandria , without a formal approbation of the same synod , the patriarchs of Constantinople were anathematized by the popes . 
Before that period , the precarious truce of Constantinople and Egypt had been violated by the zeal of the rival prelates . 
most unaccountably affirms Chalcedonensem ascivit . 
An adversary would prove that he had never read the Henoticon . 
and supplied the sacraments , which had failed for want of an episcopal ordination . 
The offer of a medicine proves the disease , and numbers must have perished before the arrival of the Roman physician . 
is shocked at the proud , uncharitable temper of the popes they are now glad , says he , to invoke St . 
Flavian of Antioch , St . 
Elias of Jerusalem , c . 
, to whom they refused communion whilst upon earth . 
But Cardinal Baronius is firm and hard as the rock of St . 
This ecclesiastical record was therefore equivalent to the book of life . 
In the fever of the times , the sense , or rather the sound of a syllable , was sufficient to disturb the peace of an empire . 
The keys of the city , and the standards of the guards , were deposited in the forum of Constantine , the principal station and camp of the faithful . 
Day and night they were incessantly busied either in singing hymns to the honor of their God , or in pillaging and murdering the servants of their prince . 
Without his diadem , and in the posture of a suppliant , Anastasius appeared on the throne of the circus . 
And such was the event of the first of the religious wars which have been waged in the name and by the disciples , of the God of peace . 
represent the history and doctrine of the Trisagion . 
In the twelve centuries between Isaiah and St . 
Proculs's boy , who was taken up into heaven before the bishop and people of Constantinople , the song was considerably improved . 
and a dissertation of M. de Valois at the end of his Evagrius . 
The troubles under the reign of Anastasius must be gathered from the Chronicles of Victor , Marcellinus , and Theophanes . 
As the last was not published in the time of Baronius , his critic Pagi is more copious , as well as more correct . 
The series is continued with some disorder in the xvth and xvith tomes of the Memoires Ecclesiastiques of Tillemont . 
And here I must take leave forever of that incomparable guide whose bigotry is overbalanced by the merits of erudition , diligence , veracity , and scrupulous minuteness . 
He was prevented by death from completing , as he designed , the vith century of the church and empire . 
Michael the archangel and his recovery from a dangerous disease was ascribed to the miraculous succor of the holy martyrs Cosmas and Damian . 
The controversies of the times were congenial to his temper and understanding and the theological professors must inwardly deride the diligence of a stranger , who cultivated their art and neglected his own . 
In the life of St . 
the same character is given with a design to praise Justinian . 
Toleration was not the virtue of the times , and indulgence to rebels has seldom been the virtue of princes . 
The Samaritans of Palestine were a motley race , an ambiguous sect , rejected as Jews by the Pagans , by the Jews as schismatics , and by the Christians as idolaters . 
The abomination of the cross had already been planted on their holy mount of Garizim , but the persecution of Justinian offered only the alternative of baptism or rebellion . 
It has been computed that one hundred thousand Roman subjects were extirpated in the Samaritan war , which converted the once fruitful province into a desolate and smoking wilderness . 
who deserves more credit as he draws towards his end . 
After numbering the heretics , Nestorians , Eutychians , c . 
, ne expectent , says Justinian , ut digni venia judicen tur jubemus , enim ut . 
convicti et aperti haeretici justae et idoneae animadversioni subjiciantur . 
See the character and principles of the Montanists , in Mosheim , Rebus Christ . 
For the religion and history of the Samaritans , consult Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , a learned and impartial work . 
See Maundrel , Journey from Aleppo c . 
I remember an observation , half philosophical . 
half superstitious , that the province which had been ruined by the bigotry of Justinian , was the same through which the Mahometans penetrated into the empire . 
The expression of Procopius is remarkable . 
With these sentiments , it was incumbent on him , at least , to be always in the right . 
In the first years of his administration , he signalized his zeal as the disciple and patron of orthodoxy the reconciliation of the Greeks and Latins established the tome of St . 
Leo as the creed of the emperor and the empire the Nestorians and Eutychians were exposed . 
on either side , to the double edge of persecution and the four synods of Nice , Constantinople , Ephesus , and Chalcedon , were ratified by the code of a Catholic lawgiver . 
The famous dispute of the Three Chapters , which has filled more volumes than it deserves lines , is deeply marked with this subtile and disingenuous spirit . 
Under the cover of this precedent , a treacherous blow was aimed at the council of Chalcedon . 
If they were already in the fangs of the daemon , their torments could neither be aggravated nor assuaged by human industry . 
The foremost of these insects , the emperor of the Romans , darted his sting , and distilled his venom , perhaps without discerning the true motives of Theodora and her ecclesiastical faction . 
But their chief was a prisoner in the hands of the enemy the throne of St . 
His apostasy provoked the indignation of the Latins , and no more than two bishops could be found who would impose their hands on his deacon and successor Pelagius . 
See the Chronicle of Victor , p . 
, and the original evidence of the laws of Justinian . 
During the first years of his reign , Baronius himself is in extreme good humor with the emperor , who courted the popes , till he got them into his power . 
If the ecclesiastical never read the secret historian , their common suspicion proves at least the general hatred . 
yet the latter is too firmly resolved to depreciate the authority and character of the popes . 
His moderate opinions were too repugnant to the zeal of the church , and he was found guilty of the heresy of reason . 
has fairly weighed the guilt and innocence of Theodore of Mopsuestia . 
If he composed , volumes , as many errors would be a charitable allowance . 
See the complaints of Liberatus and Victor , and the exhortations of Pope Pelagius to the conqueror and exarch of Italy . 
per potestates publicas opprimatur , c . 
An army was detained to suppress the sedition of an Illyrian city . 
He seems to promise an ecclesiastical history . 
It would have been curious and impartial . 
but they again relapsed , and the schism was not finally extinguished till . 
Justinian was neither steady nor consistent in the nice process of fixing his volatile opinions and those of his subjects . 
A bishop of Treves , secure beyond the limits of his power , addressed the monarch of the East in the language of authority and affection . 
Most gracious Justinian , remember your baptism and your creed . 
Let not your gray hairs be defiled with heresy . 
Recall your fathers from exile , and your followers from perdition . 
You cannot be ignorant , that Italy and Gaul , Spain and Africa , already deplore your fall , and anathematize your name . 
He died and made no sign . 
was separated from the communion of the four patriarchs by his refusal to condemn the three chapters . 
the remainder of the history of Evagrius is filled with civil , instead of ecclesiastical events . 
The experiment was tried without effect , and the timid or vehement Catholics condemned even the semblance of a retreat in the presence of a subtle and audacious enemy . 
but they treated the words as new , the questions as superfluous and recommended a religious silence as the most agreeable to the prudence and charity of the gospel . 
They condemned the execrable and abominable heresy of the Monothelites , who revived the errors of Manes , Apollinaris , Eutyches , c . 
they signed the sentence of excommunication on the tomb of St . 
Peter the ink was mingled with the sacramental wine , the blood of Christ and no ceremony was omitted that could fill the superstitious mind with horror and affright . 
Such an insult under the tamest reign could not pass with impunity . 
But the same invincible spirit survived in their successors and the triumph of the Latins avenged their recent defeat , and obliterated the disgrace of the three chapters . 
The synods of Rome were confirmed by the sixth general council of Constantinople , in the palace and the presence of a new Constantine , a descendant of Heraclius . 
They seem ignorant that they might allege the positive authority of the ecthesis . 
which relates a real conference , and produced as short lived a conversion . 
are the expressions of the xviiith anathema . 
most erroneously supposes that the bishops of the Roman synod transported themselves to Constantinople and by adding them to the Greeks , thus composes the sixth council of fathers . 
But this was a natural and transient emotion and I much fear that the latter is an anticipation of the good people of Constantinople . 
Baronius extracted some original documents from the Vatican library and his chronology is rectified by the diligence of Pagi . 
The prevailing faction will naturally inculcate the duty of submission , nor is it less natural that dissenters should feel and assert the principles of freedom . 
Cyril and the synod of Ephesus on the other , Pope Leo and the council of Chalcedon . 
The weight which they cast into the downfall of the Eastern empire demands our notice , and the reader may be amused with the various prospect of , I. The Nestorians II . 
The Armenians V. The Copts and , VI . 
To the three former , the Syriac is common but of the latter , each is discriminated by the use of a national idiom . 
whose esteem for his learning and piety was tainted by some distrust of his national character ne quid contrarium veritati fidei , Graecorum more , in ecclesiam cui praeesset introduceret . 
This name , unknown till the xth century , appears to be of Syriac origin . 
The Syriac , which the natives revere as the primitive language , was divided into three dialects . 
The Aramoean , as it was refined at Edessa and the cities of Mesopotamia . 
The Palestine , which was used in Jerusalem , Damascus , and the rest of Syria . 
whose prejudice alone could prefer it to the Arabic . 
I shall not enrich my ignorance with the spoils of Simon , Walton , Mill , Wetstein , Assemannus , Ludolphus , La Croze , whom I have consulted with some care . 
That , of all the versions which are celebrated by the fathers , it is doubtful whether any are now extant in their pristine integrity . 
That the Syriac has the best claim , and that the consent of the Oriental sects is a proof that it is more ancient than their schism . 
In the account of the Monophysites and Nestorians , I am deeply indebted to the Bibliotheca Orientalis Clementino Vaticana of Joseph Simon Assemannus . 
That learned Maronite was despatched , in the year , by Pope Clement XI . 
As a native and as a scholar , he possessed the Syriac literature and though a dependent of Rome , he wishes to be moderate and candid . 
I. Both in his native and his episcopal province , the heresy of the unfortunate Nestorius was speedily obliterated . 
The Oriental bishops , who at Ephesus had resisted to his face the arrogance of Cyril , were mollified by his tardy concessions . 
Beyond those limits they had discovered a new world , in which they might hope for liberty , and aspire to conquest . 
In Persia , notwithstanding the resistance of the Magi , Christianity had struck a deep root , and the nations of the East reposed under its salutary shade . 
The Persian church had been founded by the missionaries of Syria and their language , discipline , and doctrine , were closely interwoven with its original frame . 
The catholics were elected and ordained by their own suffragans but their filial dependence on the patriarchs of Antioch is attested by the canons of the Oriental church . 
The flight of the masters and scholars , who were twice expelled from the Athens of Syria , dispersed a crowd of missionaries inflamed by the double zeal of religion and revenge . 
But the seeming tranquillity of the Nestorians was often endangered , and sometimes overthrown . 
In his last treaty , Justinian introduced some conditions which tended to enlarge and fortify the toleration of Christianity in Persia . 
In a later age the Lutherans have been burnt at Paris , and protected in Germany , by the superstition and policy of the most Christian king . 
See the Arabic canons of Nice in the translation of Abraham Ecchelensis , No. , , , . 
These vulgar titles , Nicene and Arabic , are both apocryphal . 
and the remainder , seventy or eighty , were collected from the synods of the Greek church . 
and the Arabic version is marked with many recent interpolations . 
has noticed this Persian school of Edessa . 
A dissertation on the state of the Nestorians has swelled in the bands of Assemanni to a folio volume of pages , and his learned researches are digested in the most lucid order . 
The desire of gaining souls for God and subjects for the church , has excited in every age the diligence of the Christian priests . 
In a subsequent age the zeal of the Nestorians overleaped the limits which had confined the ambition and curiosity both of the Greeks and Persians . 
The missionaries of Balch and Samarcand pursued without fear the footsteps of the roving Tartar , and insinuated themselves into the camps of the valleys of Imaus and the banks of the Selinga . 
They exposed a metaphysical creed to those illiterate shepherds to those sanguinary warriors , they recommended humanity and repose . 
In their progress by sea and land , the Nestorians entered China by the port of Canton and the northern residence of Sigan . 
See the Topographia Christiana of Cosmas , surnamed Indicopleustes , or the Indian navigator , l . 
In its long progress to Mosul , Jerusalem , Rome , c . 
Note The extent to which Nestorian Christianity prevailed among the Tartar tribes is one of the most curious questions in Oriental history . 
appears to question the Christianity of Ong Chaghan , and his Keraite subjects . 
, who become the dupes of their own cunning , while they are afraid of a Jesuitical fraud . 
The Chinese text and the facts which it relates are equally strong proofs of its authenticity . 
This monument was raised as a memorial of the establishment of Christianity in China . 
It is dated the year of the era of the Greeks , or the Seleucidae , A. D. , in the time of the Nestorian patriarch Anan jesu . 
I do not believe that ever since this period , any book has been published in which it can be found a second time . 
M. Remusat has also strongly expressed his conviction of the authenticity of this monument . 
Melanges Asiatiques , P. i . 
denies that there is any satisfactory proof that much a monument was ever found in China , or that it was not manufactured in Europe . 
, in the Gesta Dei per Francos . 
The numbers are given by Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
The division of the patriarchate may be traced in the Bibliotheca Orient . 
According to the legend of antiquity , the gospel was preached in India by St . 
When the Portuguese first opened the navigation of India , the Christians of St . 
Thomas had been seated for ages on the coast of Malabar , and the difference of their character and color attested the mixture of a foreign race . 
They acknowledged a Gentoo of sovereign , but they were governed , even in temporal concerns , by the bishop of Angamala . 
Their religion would have rendered them the firmest and most cordial allies of the Portuguese but the inquisitors soon discerned in the Christians of St . 
Thomas the unpardonable guilt of heresy and schism . 
When her image was first presented to the disciples of St . 
Thomas , they indignantly exclaimed , We are Christians , not idolaters ! and their simple devotion was content with the veneration of the cross . 
It was the first care of the ministers of Rome to intercept all correspondence with the Nestorian patriarch , and several of his bishops expired in the prisons of the holy office . 
Since the expulsion of the Portuguese , the Nestorian creed is freely professed on the coast of Malabar . 
The trading companies of Holland and England are the friends of toleration but if oppression be less mortifying than contempt , the Christians of St . 
Thomas have reason to complain of the cold and silent indifference of their brethren of Europe . 
The Indian missionary , St . 
where the Portuguese founded an episcopal church under the name of St . 
William of Malmesbury feels the difficulty of the enterprise , quod quivis in hoc saeculo miretur and I almost suspect that the English ambassadors collected their cargo and legend in Egypt . 
with an Indian , as well as a Scandinavian , voyage . 
Concerning the Christians of St . 
, Geddes's Church History of Malabar and , above all , La Croze , Histoire du Christianisme des Indes , in vols . 
, La Haye , , a learned and agreeable work . 
They have drawn from the same source , the Portuguese and Italian narratives and the prejudices of the Jesuits are sufficiently corrected by those of the Protestants . 
Thome Christians had excited great interest in the ancient mind of the admirable Bishop Heber . 
See his curious and , to his friends , highly characteristic letter to Mar Athanasius , Appendix to Journal . 
have not convinced me that the Christianity of India is older than the Nestorian dispersion . 
The history of the Monophysites is less copious and interesting than that of the Nestorians . 
Their present numbers are esteemed from fifty to fourscore thousand souls , the remnant of a populous church , which was gradually decreased under the impression of twelve centuries . 
In his life he was an elegant writer of the Syriac and Arabic tongues , a poet , physician , and historian , a subtile philosopher , and a moderate divine . 
The sect which was honored by the virtues of Abulpharagius appears , however , to sink below the level of their Nestorian brethren . 
are more remote from the precincts of reason . 
Something may possibly be allowed for the rigor of the Monophysite theology much more for the superior influence of the monastic order . 
In Syria , in Egypt , in Ethiopia , the Jacobite monks have ever been distinguished by the austerity of their penance and the absurdity of their legends . 
Is the expression of Theodore , in his Treatise of the Incarnation , p . 
Archimandritarum et Monachorum Syriae Secundae ad Papam Hormisdam , Concil . 
will supply the history of Xenaias , or Philoxenus , bishop of Mabug , or Hierapolis , in Syria . 
He was a perfect master of the Syriac language , and the author or editor of a version of the New Testament . 
The prudent patriarch did not stay to examine the difference . 
He seems to be unknown to the Greeks . 
The Jacobites themselves had rather deduce their name and pedigree from St . 
ridicules the prejudice of the Spaniards against the Jewish blood which secretly defiles their church and state . 
The state of the Monophysites is excellently illustrated in a dissertation at the beginning of the iid volume of Assemannus , which contains pages . 
pursues the double series of the Nestorian Catholics and the Maphrians of the Jacobites . 
The son of the orthodox Constantine pursued with pious hatred a people of soldiers , who might have stood the bulwark of his empire against the common foes of Christ and of Rome . 
An army of Greeks invaded Syria the monastery of St . 
Maron was destroyed with fire the bravest chieftains were betrayed and murdered , and twelve thousand of their followers were transplanted to the distant frontiers of Armenia and Thrace . 
Yet the humble nation of the Maronites had survived the empire of Constantinople , and they still enjoy , under their Turkish masters , a free religion and a mitigated servitude . 
and many similar passages which may be found in the methodical table of Pocock . 
He was not actuated by any prejudice against the Maronites of the xth century and we may believe a Melchite , whose testimony is confirmed by the Jacobites and Latins . 
illustrates from the year to , the troubles of Mount Libanus . 
Note Compare on the Mardaites Anquetil du Perron , in the fiftieth volume of the Mem . 
des Inscriptions and Schlosser , Bildersturmendes Kaiser , p . 
These trees , so famous in Scripture , were guarded by excommunication the wood was sparingly borrowed for small crosses , c . 
Burckhardt's Travels in Syria p . 
In the ancient part , he copies the prejudices of Nairon and the other Maronites of Rome , which Assemannus is afraid to renounce and ashamed to support . 
Since the age of Constantine , the Armenians had signalized their attachment to the religion and empire of the Christians . 
The Armenians alone are the pure disciples of Eutyches , an unfortunate parent , who has been renounced by the greater part of his spiritual progeny . 
They alone persevere in the opinion , that the manhood of Christ was created , or existed without creation , of a divine and incorruptible substance . 
The religion of Armenia could not derive much glory from the learning or the power of its inhabitants . 
The helpless nation has seldom been permitted to enjoy the tranquillity of servitude . 
The catholic , or patriarch , of the Armenians resides in the monastery of Ekmiasin , three leagues from Erivan . 
and commends the state of Armenia in the iiid volume of the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions du Levant . 
The work of a Jesuit must have sterling merit when it is praised by La Croze . 
had gloried in the conversion of the Armenians . 
But the stubborn temper of the Egyptians maintained their opposition to the synod of Chalcedon , and the policy of Justinian condescended to expect and to seize the opportunity of discord . 
The Monophysite church of Alexandria was torn by the disputes of the corruptibles and incorruptibles , and on the death of the patriarch , the two factions upheld their respective candidates . 
His successor Apollinaris entered the hostile city in military array , alike qualified for prayer or for battle . 
He stood erect on his throne , and , throwing aside the upper garment of a warrior , suddenly appeared before the eyes of the multitude in the robes of patriarch of Alexandria . 
Astonishment held them mute but no sooner had Apollinaris begun to read the tome of St . 
Leo , than a volley of curses , and invectives , and stones , assaulted the odious minister of the emperor and the synod . 
Two succeeding patriarchs , Eulogius and John , labored in the conversion of heretics , with arms and arguments more worthy of their evangelical profession . 
The theological knowledge of Eulogius was displayed in many a volume , which magnified the errors of Eutyches and Severus , and attempted to reconcile the ambiguous language of St . 
Cyril with the orthodox creed of Pope Leo and the fathers of Chalcedon . 
The bounteous alms of John the eleemosynary were dictated by superstition , or benevolence , or policy . 
and the second tome of the Annals of Eutychius . 
Eulogius , who had been a monk of Antioch , was more conspicuous for subtilty than eloquence . 
He proves that the enemies of the faith , the Gaianites and Theodosians , ought not to be reconciled that the same proposition may be orthodox in the mouth of St . 
Cyril , heretical in that of Severus that the opposite assertions of St . 
Leo are equally true , c . 
His writings are no longer extant except in the Extracts of Photius , who had perused them with care and satisfaction , ccviii . 
) have made some critical observations Chapter XLVII Ecclesiastical Discord . 
Part V. A more important conquest still remained , of the patriarch , the oracle and leader of the Egyptian church . 
Theodosius had resisted the threats and promises of Justinian with the spirit of an apostle or an enthusiast . 
Such , replied the patriarch , were the offers of the tempter when he showed the kingdoms of the earth . 
But my soul is far dearer to me than life or dominion . 
Let those who love God follow me and seek their salvation . 
After comforting his brethren , he embarked for Constantinople , and sustained , in six successive interviews , the almost irresistible weight of the royal presence . 
A perpetual succession of patriarchs arose from the ashes of Theodosius and the Monophysite churches of Syria and Egypt were united by the name of Jacobites and the communion of the faith . 
The conflict of zeal and persecution rekindled some sparks of their national spirit . 
The victory of Heraclius renewed and aggravated the persecution , and the patriarch again escaped from Alexandria to the desert . 
The history of the Copts , their religion , manners , c . 
These annals descend no lower than the xiiith century . 
The more recent accounts must be searched for in the travellers into Egypt and the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions du Levant . 
In the last century , Joseph Abudacnus , a native of Cairo , published at Oxford , in thirty pages , a slight Historia Jacobitarum , , post p . 
The Coptic patriarch , a rebel to the Caesars , or a slave to the khalifs , still gloried in the filial obedience of the kings of Nubia and Aethiopia . 
In exile at Constantinople , Theodosius recommended to his patroness the conversion of the black nations of Nubia , from the tropic of Cancer to the confines of Abyssinia . 
Her design was suspected and emulated by the more orthodox emperor . 
A metaphysical religion may appear too refined for the capacity of the negro race yet a black or a parrot might be taught to repeat the words of the Chalcedonian or Monophysite creed . 
The rains of Aethiopia do not , in the increase of the Nile , consult the will of the monarch . 
a canal that should divert its course would demand , and most probably surpass , the power of the Caesars . 
The Abyssinians , who still preserve the features and olive complexion of the Arabs , afford a proof that two thousand years are not sufficient to change the color of the human race . 
The ancients beheld , without much attention , the extraordinary phenomenon which has exercised the philosophers and theologians of modern times Asseman . 
who represents them as a nation of Jacobites . 
are all previous to this aera . 
The industry of the empress was again victorious , and the pious Theodora has established in that sequestered church the faith and discipline of the Jacobites . 
Encompassed on all sides by the enemies of their religion , the Aethiopians slept near a thousand years , forgetful of the world , by whom they were forgotten . 
In their lonely situation , the Aethiopians had almost relapsed into the savage life . 
Aethiopia was saved by four hundred and fifty Portuguese , who displayed in the field the native valor of Europeans , and the artificial power of the musket and cannon . 
The abuna is improperly dignified by the Latins with the title of patriarch . 
who existed A. D. , are unknown to the historian . 
should call in question these probable missions of Theodora into Nubia and Aethiopia . 
The mind of Ludolphus was a perfect blank . 
The most necessary arts are now exercised by the Jews , and the foreign trade is in the hands of the Armenians . 
What Gregory principally admired and envied was the industry of Europe artes et opificia . 
The piece is curious but the author may be suspected of deceiving Abyssinia , Rome , and Portugal . 
But the vows which pain had extorted were forsworn on the return of health . 
Fremona , a place of worship , or rather of exile , was assigned to the Jesuit missionaries . 
A Jesuit , Alphonso Mendez , the Catholic patriarch of Aethiopia , accepted , in the name of Urban VIII . 
, the homage and abjuration of the penitent . 
I confess , said the emperor on his knees , I confess that the pope is the vicar of Christ , the successor of St . 
Peter , and the sovereign of the world . 
To him I swear true obedience , and at his feet I offer my person and kingdom . 
He condemned the ancient practice of circumcision , which health , rather than superstition , had first invented in the climate of Aethiopia . 
In the defense of their religion and liberty , the Abyssinians rose in arms , with desperate but unsuccessful zeal . 
But the victorious monarch was finally subdued by the constancy of the nation , of his mother , of his son , and of his most faithful friends . 
Segued listened to the voice of pity , of reason , perhaps of fear and his edict of liberty of conscience instantly revealed the tyranny and weakness of the Jesuits . 
On the death of his father , Basilides expelled the Latin patriarch , and restored to the wishes of the nation the faith and the discipline of Egypt . 
and such assurances should be preciously kept , as an antidote against any marvellous legends . 
I am aware how tender is the question of circumcision . 
Yet I will affirm , . 
That it was practised in Aethiopia long before the introduction of Judaism or Christianity , Herodot . 
have drawn their principal materials from the Jesuits , especially from the General History of Tellez , published in Portuguese at Coimbra , . 
We might be surprised at their frankness but their most flagitious vice , the spirit of persecution , was in their eyes the most meritorious virtue . 
See the Theologia Aethiopica of Gregory , in Fabric . 
) Note The travels of Bruce , illustrated by those of Mr. Salt , and the narrative of Nathaniel Pearce , have brought us again acquainted with this remote region . 
Whatever may be their speculative opinions the barbarous manners of the Ethiopians seem to be gaining more and more the ascendency over the practice of Christianity . 
M. Chapter XLVIII Succession And Characters Of The Greek Emperors . 
Part I. Plan Of The Two Last Volumes . 
Succession And Characters Of The Greek Emperors Of Constantinople , From The Time Of Heraclius To The Latin Conquest . 
I have now deduced from Trajan to Constantine , from Constantine to Heraclius , the regular series of the Roman emperors and faithfully exposed the prosperous and adverse fortunes of their reigns . 
At every step , as we sink deeper in the decline and fall of the Eastern empire , the annals of each succeeding reign would impose a more ungrateful and melancholy task . 
The scale of dominion is diminished to our view by the distance of time and place nor is the loss of external splendor compensated by the nobler gifts of virtue and genius . 
Nor are the defects of the subject compensated by the skill and variety of the painters . 
Nor will this scope of narrative , the riches and variety of these materials , be incompatible with the unity of design and composition . 
The excursive line may embrace the wilds of Arabia and Tartary , but the circle will be ultimately reduced to the decreasing limit of the Roman monarchy . 
On this principle I shall now establish the plan of the last two volumes of the present work . 
I. The Franks a general appellation which includes all the Barbarians of France , Italy , and Germany , who were united by the sword and sceptre of Charlemagne . 
The persecution of images and their votaries separated Rome and Italy from the Byzantine throne , and prepared the restoration of the Roman empire in the West . 
Three ample chapters will be devoted to this curious and interesting object . 
In the first , after a picture of the country and its inhabitants , I shall investigate the character of Mahomet the character , religion , and success of the prophet . 
In the third , I shall inquire how Constantinople and Europe were saved by the luxury and arts , the division and decay , of the empire of the caliphs . 
A single chapter will include , III . 
The Latins the subjects of the pope , the nations of the West , who enlisted under the banner of the cross for the recovery or relief of the holy sepulchre . 
The Greek emperors were terrified and preserved by the myriads of pilgrims who marched to Jerusalem with Godfrey of Bouillon and the peers of Christendom . 
The Greeks themselves , during this period of captivity and exile , must be considered as a foreign nation the enemies , and again the sovereigns of Constantinople . 
Misfortune had rekindled a spark of national virtue and the Imperial series may be continued with some dignity from their restoration to the Turkish conquest . 
The victories of Timour suspended above fifty years the final ruin of the Byzantine empire . 
From an humble origin , the Ottomans arose , the scourge and terror of Christendom . 
Constantinople was besieged and taken by Mahomet II . 
, and his triumph annihilates the remnant , the image , the title , of the Roman empire in the East . 
The schism of the Greeks will be connected with their last calamities , and the restoration of learning in the Western world . 
The emperor Heraclius had punished a tyrant and ascended his throne and the memory of his reign is perpetuated by the transient conquest , and irreparable loss , of the Eastern provinces . 
Your sex is excluded by nature from the toils of government . 
Sophia reechoed , not with prayers and hymns , but with the clamors and imprecations of an enraged multitude . 
A more serious and bloody task was reserved for the senate , who derived a temporary strength from the consent of the soldiers and people . 
The spirit of Roman freedom revived the ancient and awful examples of the judgment of tyrants , and the Imperial culprits were deposed and condemned as the authors of the death of Constantine . 
We shall imagine ourselves transported five hundred years backwards to the age of the Antonines , if we listen to the oration which Constans II . 
pronounced in the twelfth year of his age before the Byzantine senate . 
Your majesty and wisdom have prevented the Roman state from degenerating into lawless tyranny . 
I therefore exhort and beseech you to stand forth as the counsellors and judges of the common safety . 
He retained only a jealous fear lest the senate or people should one day invade the right of primogeniture , and seat his brother Theodosius on an equal throne . 
His murder was avenged by the imprecations of the people , and the assassin , in the fullness of power , was driven from his capital into voluntary and perpetual exile . 
But if Constans could fly from his people , he could not fly from himself . 
Odious to himself and to mankind , Constans perished by domestic , perhaps by episcopal , treason , in the capital of Sicily . 
A servant who waited in the bath , after pouring warm water on his head , struck him violently with the vase . 
He fell , stunned by the blow , and suffocated by the water and his attendants , who wondered at the tedious delay , beheld with indifference the corpse of their lifeless emperor . 
M. He was received in Rome , and pillaged the churches . 
He carried off the brass roof of the Pantheon to Syracuse , or , as Schlosser conceives , to Constantinople Schlosser Geschichte der bilder sturmenden Kaiser p . 
M. Constans had left in the Byzantine palace three sons , the eldest of whom had been clothed in his infancy with the purple . 
The youth was castrated he survived the operation , and the memory of this indecent cruelty is preserved by the elevation of Germanus to the rank of a patriarch and saint . 
But his reign , like that of his predecessor , was stained with fraternal discord . 
and orthodox Catholics the sincere votaries of the holy and undivided Trinity . 
Since there are three equal persons in heaven , it is reasonable there should be three equal persons upon earth . 
Peter , as a symbol of their spiritual adoption by the pope but the elder was alone exalted to the rank of Augustus , and the assurance of the empire . 
supposed that the young princes were mutilated after the first insurrection that after this the acts were still inscribed with their names , the princes being closely secluded in the palace . 
The improbability of this circumstance may be weighed against Gibbon's want of authority for his statement . 
M. After the decease of his father , the inheritance of the Roman world devolved to Justinian II . 
and the name of a triumphant lawgiver was dishonored by the vices of a boy , who imitated his namesake only in the expensive luxury of building . 
Sophia ! and the seasonable text of the patriarch , This is the day of the Lord ! was the prelude of an inflammatory sermon . 
But Leontius , who was already clothed with the purple , cast an eye of pity on the prostrate son of his own benefactor and of so many emperors . 
On the edge of the Scythian wilderness , Justinian still cherished the pride of his birth , and the hope of his restoration . 
The Bulgarian kingdom extended to the confines of Thrace and the two princes besieged Constantinople at the head of fifteen thousand horse . 
Apsimar was dismayed by the sudden and hostile apparition of his rival whose head had been promised by the Chozar , and of whose evasion he was yet ignorant . 
Chapter XLVIII Succession And Characters Of The Greek Emperors . 
But never was vow more religiously performed than the sacred oath of revenge which he had sworn amidst the storms of the Euxine . 
were dragged into the hippodrome , the one from his prison , the other from his palace . 
But his most implacable hatred was pointed against the Chersonites , who had insulted his exile and violated the laws of hospitality . 
Their remote situation afforded some means of defence , or at least of escape and a grievous tax was imposed on Constantinople , to supply the preparations of a fleet and army . 
Yet even the savage Stephen imperfectly accomplished the intentions of his sovereign . 
Destitute of friends , he was deserted by his Barbarian guards and the stroke of the assassin was praised as an act of patriotism and Roman virtue . 
M. Between the fall of the Heraclian and the rise of the Isaurian dynasty , a short interval of six years is divided into three reigns . 
Justinian had left behind him an ample treasure , the fruit of cruelty and rapine but this useful fund was soon and idly dissipated by his successor . 
Some bold conspirators introduced themselves in the disorder of the feast and the slumbering monarch was surprised , bound , blinded , and deposed , before he was sensible of his danger . 
But after the extinction of the Imperial line , the rule of obedience was violated , and every change diffused the seeds of new revolutions . 
This convenient shelter of the church might sometimes impose a lesson of clemency but it may be questioned whether it is for the public interest to diminish the perils of unsuccessful ambition . 
It is agreed that Leo was a native of Isauria , and that Conon was his primitive name . 
His first service was in the guards of Justinian , where he soon attracted the notice , and by degrees the jealousy , of the tyrant . 
In this dangerous elevation , Leo the Third supported himself against the envy of his equals , the discontent of a powerful faction , and the assaults of his foreign and domestic enemies . 
The Catholics , who accuse his religious innovations , are obliged to confess that they were undertaken with temper and conducted with firmness . 
Their silence respects the wisdom of his administration and the purity of his manners . 
A twelfth was exacted in addition to every aurena as a wall tax . 
Schlosser , Bilder eturmeud Kaiser , p . 
His reign was a long butchery of whatever was most noble , or holy , or innocent , in his empire . 
His surname was derived from his pollution of his baptismal font . 
His life was stained with the most opposite vices , and the ulcers which covered his body , anticipated before his death the sentiment of hell tortures . 
Without adopting the pernicious maxim , that where much is alleged , something must be true , I can however discern , that Constantine the Fifth was dissolute and cruel . 
Calumny is more prone to exaggerate than to invent and her licentious tongue is checked in some measure by the experience of the age and country to which she appeals . 
The Catholics hated the person and government of Copronymus but even their hatred is a proof of their oppression . 
They dissembled the provocations which might excuse or justify his rigor , but even these provocations must gradually inflame his resentment and harden his temper in the use or the abuse of despotism . 
Yet the character of the fifth Constantine was not devoid of merit , nor did his government always deserve the curses or the contempt of the Greeks . 
Heretical praise must be cast into the scale to counterbalance the weight of orthodox invective . 
The Iconoclasts revered the virtues of the prince forty years after his death they still prayed before the tomb of the saint . 
He is accused of burning the library of Constantinople , founded by Julian , with its president and twelve professors . 
This eastern Sorbonne had discomfited the Imperial theologians on the great question of image worship . 
Schlosser observes that this accidental fire took place six years after the emperor had laid the question of image worship before the professors . 
Bilder sturmand Kaiser , p . 
They pledged their faith on the wood of the true cross , and the act of their engagement was deposited on the altar of St . 
The first to swear , and the first to violate their oath , were the five sons of Copronymus by a second marriage and the story of these princes is singular and tragic . 
After five years' confinement , they escaped to the church of St . 
Sophia , and displayed a pathetic spectacle to the people . 
Countrymen and Christians , cried Nicephorus for himself and his mute brethren , behold the sons of your emperor , if you can still recognize our features in this miserable state . 
A life , an imperfect life , is all that the malice of our enemies has spared . 
It is now threatened , and we now throw ourselves on your compassion . 
They were speedily embarked for Greece , and Athens was allotted for the place of their exile . 
But the Athenian people , ever zealous in the cause of Irene , prevented her justice or cruelty and the five sons of Copronymus were plunged in eternal darkness and oblivion . 
Schlosser thinks more highly of Leo's mind but his only proof of his superiority is the successes of his generals against the Saracens , Schlosser , p . 
In this character he ascended his hereditary throne , and dismissed Irene to a life of solitude and repose . 
But her haughty spirit condescended to the arts of dissimulation she flattered the bishops and eunuchs , revived the filial tenderness of the prince , regained his confidence , and betrayed his credulity . 
Their fear rendered them intrepid they seized the emperor on the Asiatic shore , and he was transported to the porphyry apartment of the palace , where he had first seen the light . 
An ambiguous passage of Theophanes persuaded the annalist of the church that death was the immediate consequence of this barbarous execution . 
Gibbon has been attacked on account of this statement , but is successfully defended by Schlosser . 
Compare Le Beau , c . 
M. The most bigoted orthodoxy has justly execrated the unnatural mother , who may not easily be paralleled in the history of crimes . 
But these patricians were for the most part eunuchs and their black ingratitude justified , on this occasion , the popular hatred and contempt . 
Sophia by the venal patriarch . 
His avarice refused this modest compensation and , in her exile of the Isle of Lesbos , the empress earned a scanty subsistence by the labors of her distaff . 
Many tyrants have reigned undoubtedly more criminal than Nicephorus , but none perhaps have more deeply incurred the universal abhorrence of their people . 
Tenacious of a sceptre now falling from his hand , he conspired against the life of his successor , and cherished the idea of changing to a democracy the Roman empire . 
While his want of ability and success exposed him to the contempt of the soldiers , the masculine spirit of his wife Procopia awakened their indignation . 
protested that not a drop of Christian blood should be shed in his quarrel , and his messengers presented the conquerors with the keys of the city and the palace . 
, , speaks of him as a brave , prudent , and pious prince , formidable to the Arabs . 
This prediction was verified , or rather was produced , by the event . 
The compliance of the Armenian was rewarded with the empire , and he reigned seven years and a half under the name of Leo the Fifth . 
The zeal of his companion Michael was repaid with riches , honors , and military command and his subordinate talents were beneficially employed in the public service . 
The devout humanity of the empress Theophano was fatal to her husband and family . 
The stroke of a well aimed sword separated from his body the right arm and the cross , and Leo the Armenian was slain at the foot of the altar . 
A memorable reverse of fortune was displayed in Michael the Second , who from a defect in his speech was surnamed the Stammerer . 
His title was disputed by Thomas , the last of the military triumvirate , who transported into Europe fourscore thousand Barbarians from the banks of the Tigris and the shores of the Caspian . 
The depravation of manners , as savage as they were corrupt , is marked by the presence of the emperor himself . 
Her august birth might justify a stipulation in the marriage contract , that her children should equally share the empire with their elder brother . 
But the nuptials of Michael and Euphrosyne were barren and she was content with the title of mother of Theophilus , his son and successor . 
The character of Theophilus is a rare example in which religious zeal has allowed , and perhaps magnified , the virtues of a heretic and a persecutor . 
Nor was Theophilus content with this extravagant satisfaction his zeal converted a civil trespass into a criminal act and the unfortunate patrician was stripped and scourged in the public place of Constantinople . 
Yet in the crime , or the suspicion , of treason , that judge is of all others the most credulous and partial . 
A Persian of the race of the Sassanides died in poverty and exile at Constantinople , leaving an only son , the issue of a plebeian marriage . 
At the age of twelve years , the royal birth of Theophobus was revealed , and his merit was not unworthy of his birth . 
It is affirmed , that a similar method was adopted in the nuptials of Theophilus . 
This affectation of unseasonable wit displeased the Imperial lover he turned aside in disgust Icasia concealed her mortification in a convent and the modest silence of Theodora was rewarded with the golden apple . 
She deserved the love , but did not escape the severity , of her lord . 
Yet his last choice intrusted her with the guardianship of the empire and her son Michael , who was left an orphan in the fifth year of his age . 
After thirteen years of a prudent and frugal administration , she perceived the decline of her influence but the second Irene imitated only the virtues of her predecessor . 
Whatever might have been the maternal care of Theodora in the education of Michael the Third , her unfortunate son was a king before he was a man . 
At the age of eighteen , he rejected her authority , without feeling his own incapacity to govern the empire and himself . 
Like Nero , he delighted in the amusements of the theatre , and sighed to be surpassed in the accomplishments in which he should have blushed to excel . 
The unnatural lusts which had degraded even the manhood of Nero , were banished from the world yet the strength of Michael was consumed by the indulgence of love and intemperance . 
But the most extraordinary feature in the character of Michael , is the profane mockery of the religion of his country . 
Nor were these impious spectacles concealed from the eyes of the city . 
In a campaign against the Saracens , he betrayed both imbecility and cowardice . 
exhibits a genuine picture of the revolution of the most illustrious families . 
During several generations they maintained the dignity of their birth and their Roman patriotism rejected the tempting offers of the Persian and Arabian powers , who recalled them to their native country . 
The first night of his arrival at Constantinople , without friends or money , the weary pilgrim slept on the steps of the church of St . 
Her spiritual or carnal love embraced the young adventurer , whom she adopted as her son . 
Danielis presented him with thirty slaves and the produce of her bounty was expended in the support of his brothers , and the purchase of some large estates in Macedonia . 
His gratitude or ambition still attached him to the service of Theophilus and a lucky accident recommended him to the notice of the court . 
A famous wrestler , in the train of the Bulgarian ambassadors , had defied , at the royal banquet , the boldest and most robust of the Greeks . 
The strength of Basil was praised he accepted the challenge and the Barbarian champion was overthrown at the first onset . 
About a month after this execution , Basil was invested with the title of Augustus and the government of the empire . 
He supported this unequal association till his influence was fortified by popular esteem . 
His life was endangered by the caprice of the emperor and his dignity was profaned by a second colleague , who had rowed in the galleys . 
Yet the murder of his benefactor must be condemned as an act of ingratitude and treason and the churches which he dedicated to the name of St . 
Michael were a poor and puerile expiation of his guilt . 
The different ages of Basil the First may be compared with those of Augustus . 
His military service had been confined to the palace nor was the emperor endowed with the spirit or the talents of a warrior . 
Yet under his reign the Roman arms were again formidable to the Barbarians . 
But his principal merit was in the civil administration of the finances and of the laws . 
This glorious reign was terminated by an accident in the chase . 
Of the four sons of the emperor , Constantine died before his father , whose grief and credulity were amused by a flattering impostor and a vain apparition . 
But the claims of Leo are far short of this ideal excellence . 
But the reputation of his philosophy and religion was overthrown by a domestic vice , the repetition of his nuptials . 
The primitive ideas of the merit and holiness of celibacy were preached by the monks and entertained by the Greeks . 
In his three first alliances , his nuptial bed was unfruitful the emperor required a female companion , and the empire a legitimate heir . 
Several of the Roman princes had been blessed with an heir but this peculiar surname was first applied to Constantine the Seventh . 
Yet , in the preservation of his life and crown , he might still applaud his own fortune and the clemency of the usurper . 
But Lecapenus does not appear to have possessed either the virtues or the vices of a tyrant . 
Of a mild and religious character , he respected the sanctity of oaths , the innocence of the youth , the memory of his parents , and the attachment of the people . 
The fall of Romanus was occasioned by his own vices and those of his children . 
After the decease of Christopher , his eldest son , the two surviving brothers quarrelled with each other , and conspired against their father . 
Their sister Helena , the wife of Constantine , revealed , or supposed , their treacherous design of assassinating her husband at the royal banquet . 
In the fortieth year of his reign , Constantine the Seventh obtained the possession of the Eastern world , which he ruled or seemed to rule , near fifteen years . 
Three years and five months . 
M. By his marriage with this impious woman , Romanus the younger left two sons , Basil the Second and Constantine the Ninth , and two daughters , Theophano and Anne . 
Nicephorus Phocus united , in the popular opinion , the double merit of a hero and a saint . 
Hypocrisy I shall never justify or palliate but I will dare to observe , that the odious vice of avarice is of all others most hastily arraigned , and most unmercifully condemned . 
The canonical objection to the marriage was his relation of Godfather sons . 
M. He retook Antioch , and brought home as a trophy the sword of the most unholy and impious Mahomet . 
M. Chapter XLVIII Succession And Characters Of The Greek Emperors . 
Among the warriors who promoted his elevation , and served under his standard , a noble and valiant Armenian had deserved and obtained the most eminent rewards . 
The stature of John Zimisces was below the ordinary standard but this diminutive body was endowed with strength , beauty , and the soul of a hero . 
As he slept on a bear skin on the ground , he was roused by their noisy intrusion , and thirty daggers glittered before his eyes . 
It is doubtful whether Zimisces imbrued his hands in the blood of his sovereign but he enjoyed the inhuman spectacle of revenge . 
On the day of his coronation , he was stopped on the threshold of St . 
In his last return from Syria , he observed that the most fruitful lands of his new provinces were possessed by the eunuchs . 
Leo Diac , in Niebuhr Byz . 
M. Under this usurpation , or regency , of twelve years , the two lawful emperors , Basil and Constantine , had silently grown to the age of manhood . 
Against these domestic enemies the son of Romanus first drew his sword , and they trembled in the presence of a lawful and high spirited prince . 
After his decease , his brother Constantine enjoyed , about three years , the power , or rather the pleasures , of royalty and his only care was the settlement of the succession . 
He had enjoyed sixty six years the title of Augustus and the reign of the two brothers is the longest , and most obscure , of the Byzantine history . 
Once by the caliph , once by his rival Phocas . 
Michael sought every method of expiating his guilt . 
His administration was only the art of satiating his avarice , and Zoe became a captive in the palace of her fathers , and in the hands of her slaves . 
The only act of his short reign was his base ingratitude to his benefactors , the eunuch and the empress . 
For the first time the Greeks beheld with surprise the two royal sisters seated on the same throne , presiding in the senate , and giving audience to the ambassadors of the nations . 
But his health was broken by the tortures of the gout , and his dissolute reign was spent in the alternative of sickness and pleasure . 
A fair and noble widow had accompanied Constantine in his exile to the Isle of Lesbos , and Sclerena gloried in the appellation of his mistress . 
After his marriage and elevation , she was invested with the title and pomp of Augusta , and occupied a contiguous apartment in the palace . 
consented to this strange and scandalous partition and the emperor appeared in public between his wife and his concubine . 
The surname of Stratioticus declares his military profession but the crazy and decrepit veteran could only see with the eyes , and execute with the hands , of his ministers . 
Whilst he ascended the throne , Theodora sunk into the grave the last of the Macedonian or Basilian dynasty . 
They secretly assembled in the sanctuary of St . 
Isaac Comnenus was approved by general consent , and the associates separated without delay to meet in the plains of Phrygia at the head of their respective squadrons and detachments . 
After their defeat , the fears of the emperor solicited a treaty , which was almost accepted by the moderation of the Comnenian . 
But the former was betrayed by his ambassadors , and the latter was prevented by his friends . 
The decline of his health and vigor suspended the operation of active virtue and the prospect of approaching death determined him to interpose some moments between life and eternity . 
The purple which he had refused was accepted by Constantine Ducas , a friend of the Comnenian house , and whose noble birth was adorned with the experience and reputation of civil policy . 
In the monastic habit , Isaac recovered his health , and survived two years his voluntary abdication . 
At the command of his abbot , he observed the rule of St . 
If Constantine the Eleventh were indeed the subject most worthy of empire , we must pity the debasement of the age and nation in which he was chosen . 
Her royal choice was yet unknown to the public and the promise which would have betrayed her falsehood and levity , was stolen by a dexterous emissary from the ambition of the patriarch . 
Hereafter I shall relate his valiant , but unsuccessful , efforts to resist the progress of the Turks . 
Strong in the contempt of their sovereign and their own esteem , two generals , at the head of the European and Asiatic legions , assumed the purple at Adrianople and Nice . 
While Botaniates advanced with cautious and dilatory steps , his active competitor stood in arms before the gates of Constantinople . 
This change of the public opinion was favorable to Botaniates , who at length , with an army of Turks , approached the shores of Chalcedon . 
Sophia , debated , with order and calmness , on the choice of their sovereign . 
John Comnenus , the brother of the emperor Isaac , survived in peace and dignity his generous refusal of the sceptre . 
Judge of my future loyalty by my past opposition . 
The successor of Michael entertained him with esteem and confidence his valor was employed against three rebels , who disturbed the peace of the empire , or at least of the emperors . 
The women of the family were deposited in a sanctuary , respected by tyrants the men , mounted on horseback , sallied from the city , and erected the standard of civil war . 
Alexius ascended the throne and his aged competitor disappeared in a monastery . 
The life of the emperor Alexius has been delineated by a favorite daughter , who was inspired by a tender regard for his person and a laudable zeal to perpetuate his virtues . 
Yet , instead of the simplicity of style and narrative which wins our belief , an elaborate affectation of rhetoric and science betrays in every page the vanity of a female author . 
The sea was not less hostile than the land and while the frontiers were assaulted by an open enemy , the palace was distracted with secret treason and conspiracy . 
On a sudden , the banner of the Cross was displayed by the Latins Europe was precipitated on Asia and Constantinople had almost been swept away by this impetuous deluge . 
In the tempest , Alexius steered the Imperial vessel with dexterity and courage . 
The discipline of the camp was revived , and a new generation of men and soldiers was created by the example and precepts of their leader . 
Yet the difficulties of the times betrayed some defects in his character and have exposed his memory to some just or ungenerous reproach . 
Even the sincerity of his moral and religious virtues was suspected by the persons who had passed their lives in his familiar confidence . 
After the discovery of her treason , the life and fortune of Anne were justly forfeited to the laws . 
Her life was spared by the clemency of the emperor but he visited the pomp and treasures of her palace , and bestowed the rich confiscation on the most deserving of his friends . 
He despised and moderated the stately magnificence of the Byzantine court , so oppressive to the people , so contemptible to the eye of reason . 
The only defect of this accomplished character was the frailty of noble minds , the love of arms and military glory . 
Yet the frequent expeditions of John the Handsome may be justified , at least in their principle , by the necessity of repelling the Turks from the Hellespont and the Bosphorus . 
The sultan of Iconium was confined to his capital , the Barbarians were driven to the mountains , and the maritime provinces of Asia enjoyed the transient blessings of their deliverance . 
Chapter XLVIII Succession And Characters Of The Greek Emperors . 
Sophia , who possessed a decisive voice in the consecration of an emperor . 
By the experience of his government , they were taught , that he emulated the spirit , and shared the talents , of his father whose social virtues were buried in the grave . 
A reign of thirty seven years is filled by a perpetual though various warfare against the Turks , the Christians , and the hordes of the wilderness beyond the Danube . 
Such was his strength and exercise in arms , that Raymond , surnamed the Hercules of Antioch , was incapable of wielding the lance and buckler of the Greek emperor . 
In a famous tournament , he entered the lists on a fiery courser , and overturned in his first career two of the stoutest of the Italian knights . 
The first in the charge , the last in the retreat , his friends and his enemies alike trembled , the former for his safety , and the latter for their own . 
But the most singular feature in the character of Manuel , is the contrast and vicissitude of labor and sloth , of hardiness and effeminacy . 
In war he seemed ignorant of peace , in peace he appeared incapable of war . 
As he quenched his thirst , he complained that the water of a fountain was mingled with Christian blood . 
It is not the first time , exclaimed a voice from the crowd , that you have drank , O emperor , the blood of your Christian subjects . 
Manuel Comnenus was twice married , to the virtuous Bertha or Irene of Germany , and to the beauteous Maria , a French or Latin princess of Antioch . 
The son of Maria was named Alexius and at the age of ten years he ascended the Byzantine throne , after his father's decease had closed the glories of the Comnenian line . 
The fraternal concord of the two sons of the great Alexius had been sometimes clouded by an opposition of interest and passion . 
By ambition , Isaac the Sebastocrator was excited to flight and rebellion , from whence he was reclaimed by the firmness and clemency of John the Handsome . 
The errors of Isaac , the father of the emperors of Trebizond , were short and venial but John , the elder of his sons , renounced forever his religion . 
The preservation , in his old age , of health and vigor , was the reward of temperance and exercise . 
Paul and , in every deed of mischief , he had a heart to resolve , a head to contrive , and a hand to execute . 
She accompanied him to his military command of Cilicia , the first scene of his valor and imprudence . 
Andronicus was surprised by the sally of a vigilant foe but , while his troops fled in disorder , his invincible lance transpierced the thickest ranks of the Armenians . 
The monarch dissembled his suspicions but , after the close of the campaign , Andronicus was arrested and strictly confined in a tower of the palace of Constantinople . 
In this prison he was left about twelve years a most painful restraint , from which the thirst of action and pleasure perpetually urged him to escape . 
Alone and pensive , he perceived some broken bricks in a corner of the chamber , and gradually widened the passage , till he had explored a dark and forgotten recess . 
Into this hole he conveyed himself , and the remains of his provisions , replacing the bricks in their former position , and erasing with care the footsteps of his retreat . 
At the hour of the customary visit , his guards were amazed by the silence and solitude of the prison , and reported , with shame and fear , his incomprehensible flight . 
At length he found the moment , and the means , of his deliverance . 
A boy , his domestic servant , intoxicated the guards , and obtained in wax the impression of the keys . 
By the diligence of his friends , a similar key , with a bundle of ropes , was introduced into the prison , in the bottom of a hogshead . 
His presence of mind again extricated him from danger . 
In this northern region he deserved the forgiveness of Manuel , who solicited the Russian prince to join his arms in the invasion of Hungary . 
No sooner was the exile restored to freedom and his country , than his ambition revived , at first to his own , and at length to the public , misfortune . 
But Andronicus soon discovered a more easy and pleasing conquest , the beautiful Philippa , sister of the empress Maria , and daughter of Raymond of Poitou , the Latin prince of Antioch . 
She visited and loved her kinsman . 
Theodora was the third victim of his amorous seduction and her shame was more public and scandalous than that of her predecessors . 
The emperor still thirsted for revenge and his subjects and allies of the Syrian frontier were repeatedly pressed to seize the person , and put out the eyes , of the fugitive . 
In Palestine he was no longer safe but the tender Theodora revealed his danger , and accompanied his flight . 
The queen of Jerusalem was exposed to the East , his obsequious concubine and two illegitimate children were the living monuments of her weakness . 
Damascus was his first refuge and , in the characters of the great Noureddin and his servant Saladin , the superstitious Greek might learn to revere the virtues of the Mussulmans . 
In the story of his adventures , he was fond of comparing himself to David , who escaped , by a long exile , the snares of the wicked . 
was content to lurk on the borders of Judaea , to slay an Amalekite , and to threaten , in his miserable state , the life of the avaricious Nabal . 
The excursions of the Comnenian prince had a wider range and he had spread over the Eastern world the glory of his name and religion . 
By a sentence of the Greek church , the licentious rover had been separated from the faithful but even this excommunication may prove , that he never abjured the profession of Chistianity . 
His vigilance had eluded or repelled the open and secret persecution of the emperor but he was at length insnared by the captivity of his female companion . 
The fugitive implored and obtained a final pardon , with leave to throw himself at the feet of his sovereign , who was satisfied with the submission of this haughty spirit . 
The death of Manuel , and the disorders of the minority , soon opened the fairest field to his ambition . 
The provinces were forgotten , the capital was in flames , and a century of peace and order was overthrown in the vice and weakness of a few months . 
A civil war was kindled in Constantinople the two factions fought a bloody battle in the square of the palace , and the rebels sustained a regular siege in the cathedral of St . 
His correspondence with the patriarch and patricians was seasoned with apt quotations from the Psalms of David and the epistles of St . 
Paul and he patiently waited till he was called to her deliverance by the voice of his country . 
Thou art safety deposited under a seven fold dome , from whence thou canst never arise till the signal of the last trumpet . 
It is now my turn , and speedily will I trample on thy ashes and thy posterity . 
From his subsequent tyranny we may impute such feelings to the man and the moment but it is not extremely probable that he gave an articulate sound to his secret thoughts . 
But his death was preceded by the imprisonment and execution of his mother . 
After blackening her reputation , and inflaming against her the passions of the multitude , the tyrant accused and tried the empress for a treasonable correspondence with the king of Hungary . 
His government exhibited a singular contrast of vice and virtue . 
When he listened to his passions , he was the scourge when he consulted his reason , the father , of his people . 
His throne was subverted by a rival without merit , and a people without arms . 
Isaac Angelus , a descendant in the female line from the great Alexius , was marked as a victim by the prudence or superstition of the emperor . 
! In a moment of despair , Angelus defended his life and liberty , slew the executioner , and fled to the church of St . 
The sanctuary was insensibly filled with a curious and mournful crowd , who , in his fate , prognosticated their own . 
Unconscious of his danger , the tyrant was absent withdrawn from the toils of state , in the delicious islands of the Propontis . 
In this long and painful agony , Lord , have mercy upon me ! and Why will you bruise a broken reed ? were the only words that escaped from his mouth . 
Our hatred for the tyrant is lost in pity for the man nor can we blame his pusillanimous resignation , since a Greek Christian was no longer master of his life . 
has highly drawn the character of Andronicus . 
In his view the extermination of the Byzantine factions and dissolute nobility was part of a deep laid and splendid plan for the regeneration of the empire . 
Andronicus despised the imbecile Isaac too much to fear him he was arrested by the officious zeal of Stephen , the instrument of the Emperor's cruelties . 
M. I have been tempted to expatiate on the extraordinary character and adventures of Andronicus but I shall here terminate the series of the Greek emperors since the time of Heraclius . 
A private citizen of Philadelphia , Constantine Angelus , had emerged to wealth and honors , by his marriage with a daughter of the emperor Alexius . 
His son Andronicus is conspicuous only by his cowardice . 
But in the intervals of the Byzantine dynasties , the succession is rapid and broken , and the name of a successful candidate is speedily erased by a more fortunate competitor . 
It is thus that the experience of history exalts and enlarges the horizon of our intellectual view . 
To the greater part of the Byzantine series , we cannot reasonably ascribe the love of fame and of mankind . 
But the peculiar infelicity of the Byzantine princes exposed them to domestic perils , without affording any lively promise of foreign conquest . 
