Yes , he existed in flesh and blood , although he assumed the complete appearance of a real phantom that is to say , of a spectral shade . 
But none of those witnesses had until that day thought that there was any reason for connecting the more or less legendary figure of the Opera ghost with that terrible story . 
The acting manager knew all about my investigations and how eagerly and unsuccessfully I had been trying to discover the whereabouts of the examining magistrate in the famous Chagny case , M. Faure . 
The little old man was M. Faure himself . 
We spent a good part of the evening together and he told me the whole Chagny case as he had understood it at the time . 
He could not tell me what became of Christine or the viscount . 
When I mentioned the ghost , he only laughed . 
This witness was none other than the man whom all Paris called the Persian and who was well known to every subscriber to the Opera . 
The magistrate took him for a visionary . 
I was immensely interested by this story of the Persian . 
I wanted , if there were still time , to find this valuable and eccentric witness . 
I also went into the past history of the Persian and found that he was an upright man , incapable of inventing a story that might have defeated the ends of justice . 
In this connection , I should like to print a few lines which I received from General D SIR I can not urge you too strongly to publish the results of your inquiry . 
Lastly , with my bundle of papers in hand , I once more went over the ghost's vast domain , the huge building which he had made his kingdom . 
All that my eyes saw , all that my mind perceived , corroborated the Persian's documents precisely and a wonderful discovery crowned my labors in a very definite fashion . 
It will be remembered that , later , when digging in the substructure of the Opera , before burying the phonographic records of the artist's voice , the workmen laid bare a corpse . 
Well , I was at once able to prove that this corpse was that of the Opera ghost . 
I came upon this track just when I was looking for the remains of the Opera ghost , which I should never have discovered but for the unheard of chance described above . 
But we will return to the corpse and what ought to be done with it . 
, M. Remy , the late secretary , M. Mercier , the late acting manager , M. Gabriel , the late chorus master , and more particularly Mme . 
, the most charming star of our admirable corps de ballet , the eldest daughter of the worthy Mme . 
Giry , now deceased , who had charge of the ghost's private box . 
Chapter I Is it the Ghost ? It was the evening on which MM . 
Debienne and Poligny , the managers of the Opera , were giving a last gala performance to mark their retirement . 
They rushed in amid great confusion , some giving vent to forced and unnatural laughter , others to cries of terror . 
Sorelli's dressing room was fitted up with official , commonplace elegance . 
A pier glass , a sofa , a dressing table and a cupboard or two provided the necessary furniture . 
And they all began to talk together . 
The ghost had appeared to them in the shape of a gentleman in dress clothes , who had suddenly stood before them in the passage , without their knowing where he came from . 
He seemed to have come straight through the wall . 
Pooh ! said one of them , who had more or less kept her head . 
You see the ghost everywhere ! And it was true . 
As became a real ghost , he made no noise in walking . 
People began by laughing and making fun of this specter dressed like a man of fashion or an undertaker but the ghost legend soon swelled to enormous proportions among the corps de ballet . 
All the girls pretended to have met this supernatural being more or less often . 
And those who laughed the loudest were not the most at ease . 
When he did not show himself , he betrayed his presence or his passing by accident , comic or serious , for which the general superstition held him responsible . 
After all , who had seen him ? You meet so many men in dress clothes at the Opera who are not ghosts . 
But this dress suit had a peculiarity of its own . 
At least , so the ballet girls said . 
And , of course , it had a death's head . 
He had run up against the ghost on the little staircase , by the footlights , which leads to the cellars . 
His eyes are so deep that you can hardly see the fixed pupils . 
You just see two big black holes , as in a dead man's skull . 
His skin , which is stretched across his bones like a drumhead , is not white , but a nasty yellow . 
His nose is so little worth talking about that you can't see it side face and THE ABSENCE of that nose is a horrible thing TO LOOK AT . 
All the hair he has is three or four long dark locks on his forehead and behind his ears . 
This chief scene shifter was a serious , sober , steady man , very slow at imagining things . 
His words were received with interest and amazement and soon there were other people to say that they too had met a man in dress clothes with a death's head on his shoulders . 
Sensible men who had wind of the story began by saying that Joseph Buquet had been the victim of a joke played by one of his assistants . 
And then , one after the other , there came a series of incidents so curious and so inexplicable that the very shrewdest people began to feel uneasy . 
I have the anecdote , which is quite authentic , from M. Pedro Gailhard himself , the late manager of the Opera . 
The fireman's name was Pampin . 
The corps de ballet was flung into consternation . 
At first sight , this fiery head in no way corresponded with Joseph Buquet's description of the ghost . 
But the young ladies soon persuaded themselves that the ghost had several heads , which he changed about as he pleased . 
And , of course , they at once imagined that they were in the greatest danger . 
To return to the evening in question . 
It's the ghost ! little Jammes had cried . 
An agonizing silence now reigned in the dressing room . 
Nothing was heard but the hard breathing of the girls . 
There was no sound of footsteps . 
It was like light silk sliding over the panel . 
Sorelli tried to show more pluck than the others . 
She went up to the door and , in a quavering voice , asked Who's there ? But nobody answered . 
It was empty a gas flame , in its glass prison , cast a red and suspicious light into the surrounding darkness , without succeeding in dispelling it . 
And the dancer slammed the door again , with a deep sigh . 
No , she said , there is no one there . 
Still , we saw him ! Jammes declared , returning with timid little steps to her place beside Sorelli . 
He must be somewhere prowling about . 
I shan't go back to dress . 
We had better all go down to the foyer together , at once , for the speech , and we will come up again together . 
Andrew's cross on the wooden ring which adorned the fourth finger of her left hand . 
She said to the little ballet girls Come , children , pull yourselves together ! I dare say no one has ever seen the ghost . 
Yes , yes , we saw him we saw him just now ! cried the girls . 
He had his death's head and his dress coat , just as when he appeared to Joseph Buquet ! And Gabriel saw him too ! said Jammes . 
That's what he knew him by . 
Gabriel was in the stage manager's office . 
Suddenly the door opened and the Persian entered . 
And you know how superstitious Gabriel is , continued Jammes . 
However , he is always polite . 
When he meets the Persian , he just puts his hand in his pocket and touches his keys . 
I was just passing with mother . 
He was covered with bruises and his face was all over blood . 
We were frightened out of our lives , but , all at once , he began to thank Providence that he had got off so cheaply . 
Then he told us what had frightened him . 
A silence followed , while Sorelli polished her nails in great excitement . 
It was broken by little Giry , who said Joseph Buquet would do better to hold his tongue . 
Why should he hold his tongue ? asked somebody . 
That's mother's opinion , replied Meg , lowering her voice and looking all about her as though fearing lest other ears than those present might overhear . 
And why is it your mother's opinion ? Hush ! Mother says the ghost doesn't like being talked about . 
And why does your mother say so ? Because because nothing This reticence exasperated the curiosity of the young ladies , who crowded round little Giry , begging her to explain herself . 
I swore not to tell ! gasped Meg . 
What private box ? The ghost's box ! Has the ghost a box ? Oh , do tell us , do tell us ! Not so loud ! said Meg . 
It's Box Five , you know , the box on the grand tier , next to the stage box , on the left . 
Oh , nonsense ! I tell you it is . 
Mother has charge of it . 
But you swear you won't say a word ? Of course , of course . 
Well , that's the ghost's box . 
No one has had it for over a month , except the ghost , and orders have been given at the box office that it must never be sold . 
And does the ghost really come there ? Yes . 
Then somebody does come ? Why , no ! The ghost comes , but there is nobody there . 
The little ballet girls exchanged glances . 
If the ghost came to the box , he must be seen , because he wore a dress coat and a death's head . 
This was what they tried to make Meg understand , but she replied That's just it ! The ghost is not seen . 
And he has no dress coat and no head ! All that talk about his death's head and his head of fire is nonsense ! There's nothing in it . 
You only hear him when he is in the box . 
Mother has never seen him , but she has heard him . 
Mother knows , because she gives him his program . 
Giry , child , you're getting at us ! Thereupon little Giry began to cry . 
What's the matter ? She opened the door . 
A respectable lady , built on the lines of a Pomeranian grenadier , burst into the dressing room and dropped groaning into a vacant arm chair . 
Her eyes rolled madly in her brick dust colored face . 
How awful ! she said . 
I shall never be able to recite my speech , she said . 
Ma Jammes gave her opinion , while she emptied a glass of liqueur that happened to be standing on a table the ghost must have something to do with it . 
The truth is that no one ever knew how Joseph Buquet met his death . 
The verdict at the inquest was natural suicide . 
In his Memoirs of Manager , M. Moncharmin , one of the joint managers who succeeded MM . 
Debienne and Poligny , describes the incident as follows A grievous accident spoiled the little party which MM . 
Debienne and Poligny gave to celebrate their retirement . 
I was in the manager's office , when Mercier , the acting manager , suddenly came darting in . 
A man hangs at the end of a rope they go to cut him down the rope has disappeared . 
The horrid news soon spread all over the Opera , where Joseph Buquet was very popular . 
Chapter II The New Margarita On the first landing , Sorelli ran against the Comte de Chagny , who was coming up stairs . 
The count , who was generally so calm , seemed greatly excited . 
I was just going to you , he said , taking off his hat . 
Oh , Sorelli , what an evening ! And Christine Daae what a triumph ! Impossible ! said Meg Giry . 
Six months ago , she used to sing like a CROCK ! But do let us get by , my dear count , continues the brat , with a saucy curtsey . 
We are going to inquire after a poor man who was found hanging by the neck . 
Just then the acting manager came fussing past and stopped when he heard this remark . 
What ! he exclaimed roughly . 
They all went on to the foyer of the ballet , which was already full of people . 
The Comte de Chagny was right no gala performance ever equalled this one . 
All the great composers of the day had conducted their own works in turns . 
Faure and Krauss had sung and , on that evening , Christine Daae had revealed her true self , for the first time , to the astonished and enthusiastic audience . 
Krauss had sung the bolero in the Vespri Siciliani and Mlle . 
Denise Bloch the drinking song in Lucrezia Borgia . 
But the real triumph was reserved for Christine Daae , who had begun by singing a few passages from Romeo and Juliet . 
No one had ever heard or seen anything like it . 
Daae revealed a new Margarita that night , a Margarita of a splendor , a radiance hitherto unsuspected . 
A few subscribers , however , protested . 
Why had so great a treasure been kept from them all that time ? Till then , Christine Daae had played a good Siebel to Carlotta's rather too splendidly material Margarita . 
She had often said she meant to practise alone for the future . 
The whole thing was a mystery . 
The Comte de Chagny , standing up in his box , listened to all this frenzy and took part in it by loudly applauding . 
Philippe Georges Marie Comte de Chagny was just forty one years of age . 
He was a great aristocrat and a good looking man , above middle height and with attractive features , in spite of his hard forehead and his rather cold eyes . 
He was exquisitely polite to the women and a little haughty to the men , who did not always forgive him for his successes in society . 
He had an excellent heart and an irreproachable conscience . 
On the death of old Count Philibert , he became the head of one of the oldest and most distinguished families in France , whose arms dated back to the fourteenth century . 
The Comtesse de Chagny , nee de Moerogis de La Martyniere , had died in giving birth to Raoul , who was born twenty years after his elder brother . 
At the time of the old count's death , Raoul was twelve years of age . 
Philippe busied himself actively with the youngster's education . 
The lad entered the Borda training ship , finished his course with honors and quietly made his trip round the world . 
The shyness of the sailor lad I was almost saying his innocence was remarkable . 
He seemed to have but just left the women's apron strings . 
He was a little over twenty one years of age and looked eighteen . 
He had a small , fair mustache , beautiful blue eyes and a complexion like a girl's . 
He took advantage of the young man's leave of absence to show him Paris , with all its luxurious and artistic delights . 
The count considered that , at Raoul's age , it is not good to be too good . 
Philippe himself had a character that was very well balanced in work and pleasure alike his demeanor was always faultless and he was incapable of setting his brother a bad example . 
He took him with him wherever he went . 
He even introduced him to the foyer of the ballet . 
I know that the count was said to be on terms with Sorelli . 
On that evening , Philippe , after applauding the Daae , turned to Raoul and saw that he was quite pale . 
Don't you see , said Raoul , that the woman's fainting ? You look like fainting yourself , said the count . 
What's the matter ? But Raoul had recovered himself and was standing up . 
Let's go and see , he said , she never sang like that before . 
The count gave his brother a curious smiling glance and seemed quite pleased . 
They were soon at the door leading from the house to the stage . 
Numbers of subscribers were slowly making their way through . 
Raoul tore his gloves without knowing what he was doing and Philippe had much too kind a heart to laugh at him for his impatience . 
But he now understood why Raoul was absent minded when spoken to and why he always tried to turn every conversation to the subject of the Opera . 
At the back of the stage , Raoul had to stop before the inrush of the little troop of ballet girls who blocked the passage which he was trying to enter . 
Sorelli had an excuse she had lost her mother . 
For the girl had not yet come to and the doctor of the theater had just arrived at the moment when Raoul entered at his heels . 
Christine , therefore , received the first aid of the one , while opening her eyes in the arms of the other . 
The count and many more remained crowding in the doorway . 
Don't you think , Doctor , that those gentlemen had better clear the room ? asked Raoul coolly . 
You're quite right , said the doctor . 
And he sent every one away , except Raoul and the maid , who looked at Raoul with eyes of the most undisguised astonishment . 
She had never seen him before and yet dared not question him and the doctor imagined that the young man was only acting as he did because he had the right to . 
Meanwhile , Christine Daae uttered a deep sigh , which was answered by a groan . 
She turned her head , saw Raoul and started . 
She looked at the doctor , on whom she bestowed a smile , then at her maid , then at Raoul again . 
Christine again looked at the doctor and the maid and all three began to laugh . 
Raoul turned very red and stood up . 
Mademoiselle , he said , since you are pleased not to recognize me , I should like to say something to you in private , something very important . 
When I am better , do you mind ? And her voice shook . 
You have been very good . 
Yes , you must go , said the doctor , with his pleasantest smile . 
Leave me to attend to mademoiselle . 
I am not ill now , said Christine suddenly , with strange and unexpected energy . 
She rose and passed her hand over her eyelids . 
I should like to be alone . 
Please go away , all of you . 
I feel very restless this evening . 
The doctor tried to make a short protest , but , perceiving the girl's evident agitation , he thought the best remedy was not to thwart her . 
And he went away , saying to Raoul , outside She is not herself to night . 
She is usually so gentle . 
Then he said good night and Raoul was left alone . 
The whole of this part of the theater was now deserted . 
The farewell ceremony was no doubt taking place in the foyer of the ballet . 
Raoul thought that Daae might go to it and he waited in the silent solitude , even hiding in the favoring shadow of a doorway . 
He felt a terrible pain at his heart and it was of this that he wanted to speak to Daae without delay . 
Suddenly the dressing room door opened and the maid came out by herself , carrying bundles . 
He stopped her and asked how her mistress was . 
The woman laughed and said that she was quite well , but that he must not disturb her , for she wished to be left alone . 
His heart , which had seemed gone for ever , returned to his breast and was throbbing loudly . 
The whole passage echoed with its beating and Raoul's ears were deafened . 
Surely , if his heart continued to make such a noise , they would hear it inside , they would open the door and the young man would be turned away in disgrace . 
What a position for a Chagny ! To be caught listening behind a door ! He took his heart in his two hands to make it stop . 
The man's voice spoke again Are you very tired ? Oh , to night I gave you my soul and I am dead ! Christine replied . 
Your soul is a beautiful thing , child , replied the grave man's voice , and I thank you . 
No emperor ever received so fair a gift . 
Raoul heard nothing after that . 
At one and the same time , he had learned what love meant , and hatred . 
He knew that he loved . 
He wanted to know whom he hated . 
To his great astonishment , the door opened and Christine Daae appeared , wrapped in furs , with her face hidden in a lace veil , alone . 
She closed the door behind her , but Raoul observed that she did not lock it . 
He did not even follow her with his eyes , for his eyes were fixed on the door , which did not open again . 
When the passage was once more deserted , he crossed it , opened the door of the dressing room , went in and shut the door . 
He found himself in absolute darkness . 
The gas had been turned out . 
There is some one here ! said Raoul , with his back against the closed door , in a quivering voice . 
What are you hiding for ? All was darkness and silence . 
Raoul heard only the sound of his own breathing . 
He quite failed to see that the indiscretion of his conduct was exceeding all bounds . 
You shan't leave this until I let you ! he exclaimed . 
If you don't answer , you are a coward ! But I'll expose you ! And he struck a match . 
The blaze lit up the room . 
There was no one in the room ! Raoul , first turning the key in the door , lit the gas jets . 
He went into the dressing closet , opened the cupboards , hunted about , felt the walls with his moist hands . 
Nothing ! Look here ! he said , aloud . 
He went out , not knowing what he was doing nor where he was going . 
At a given moment in his wayward progress , an icy draft struck him in the face . 
He found himself at the bottom of a staircase , down which , behind him , a procession of workmen were carrying a sort of stretcher , covered with a white sheet . 
Which is the way out , please ? he asked of one of the men . 
Straight in front of you , the door is open . 
He took off his hat , fell back to make room for the procession and went out . 
Chapter III The Mysterious Reason During this time , the farewell ceremony was taking place . 
They had been assisted in the realization of their ideal , though melancholy , program by all that counted in the social and artistic world of Paris . 
She never ceased to laugh and chatter , to hop about and play practical jokes , until Mm . 
Debienne and Poligny appeared on the steps of the foyer , when she was severely called to order by the impatient Sorelli . 
Everybody remarked that the retiring managers looked cheerful , as is the Paris way . 
None will ever be a true Parisian who has not learned to wear a mask of gaiety over his sorrows and one of sadness , boredom or indifference over his inward joy . 
The Opera ghost ! The Opera ghost ! Everybody laughed and pushed his neighbor and wanted to offer the Opera ghost a drink , but he was gone . 
He had slipped through the crowd and the others vainly hunted for him , while two old gentlemen tried to calm little Jammes and while little Giry stood screaming like a peacock . 
Sorelli was furious she had not been able to finish her speech the managers , had kissed her , thanked her and run away as fast as the ghost himself . 
The retiring managers had already handed over to their successors the two tiny master keys which opened all the doors thousands of doors of the Opera house . 
Those who began by looking at him with a smile ended by turning away their heads , for the sight of him at once provoked the most funereal thoughts . 
The result was that no request was made for an explanation no unpleasant remark no joke in bad taste , which might have offended this visitor from the tomb . 
But M. Moncharmin declares , in his Memoirs , that the guest's nose was transparent long , thin and transparent are his exact words . 
I , for my part , will add that this might very well apply to a false nose . 
M. Moncharmin may have taken for transparcncy what was only shininess . 
Everybody knows that orthopaedic science provides beautiful false noses for those who have lost their noses naturally or as the result of an operation . 
M. Armand Moncharmin , in chapter eleven of his Memoirs , says When I think of this first evening , I can not separate the secret confided to us by MM . 
Debienne and Poligny in their office from the presence at our supper of that GHOSTLY person whom none of us knew . 
What happened was this Mm . 
Debienne and Poligny , sitting at the center of the table , had not seen the man with the death's head . 
Suddenly he began to speak . 
The ballet girls are right , he said . 
The death of that poor Buquet is perhaps not so natural as people think . 
Debienne and Poligny gave a start . 
Is Buquet dead ? they cried . 
Yes , replied the man , or the shadow of a man , quietly . 
He was found , this evening , hanging in the third cellar , between a farm house and a scene from the Roi de Lahore . 
The two managers , or rather ex managers , at once rose and stared strangely at the speaker . 
They were more excited than they need have been , that is to say , more excited than any one need be by the announcement of the suicide of a chief scene shifter . 
They looked at each other . 
They , had both turned whiter than the table cloth . 
At last , Debienne made a sign to Mm . 
Richard and Moncharmin Poligny muttered a few words of excuse to the guests and all four went into the managers' office . 
I leave M. Mencharmin to complete the story . 
In his Memoirs , he says Mm . 
Debienne and Poligny seemed to grow more and more excited , and they appeared to have something very difficult to tell us . 
They said this so funnily that we began to laugh and to ask if there were thieves at the Opera . 
They replied that there was something worse , which was the GHOST . 
We began to laugh again , feeling sure that they were indulging in some joke that was intended to crown our little entertainment . 
Then , at their request , we became serious , resolving to humor them and to enter into the spirit of the game . 
During these unexpected utterances made in a tone of the most secret and important confidence , I looked at Richard . 
Richard , in his student days , had acquired a great reputation for practical joking , and he seemed to relish the dish which was being served up to him in his turn . 
He did not miss a morsel of it , though the seasoning was a little gruesome because of the death of Buquet . 
I could think of nothing better than to give him a servile imitation of this attitude of despair . 
However , in spite of all our efforts , we could not , at the finish , help bursting out laughing in the faces of MM . 
This is followed by the conditions , which are four in number . 
This paragraph ran , word for word , as follows . 
M. Poligny pointed with a hesitating finger to this last clause , which we certainly did not expect . 
Is this all ? Does he not want anything else ? asked Richard , with the greatest coolness . 
Yes , he does , replied Poligny . 
Richard added that he now understood why MM . 
Debienne and Poligny were retiring from the management of the National Academy of Music . 
Business was impossible with so unreasonable a ghost . 
Certainly , two hundred and forty thousand francs are not be picked up for the asking , said M. Poligny , without moving a muscle of his face . 
Richard said But , after all all , it seems to me that you were much too kind to the ghost . 
If I had such a troublesome ghost as that , I should not hesitate to have him arrested . 
But how ? Where ? they cried , in chorus . 
We have never seen him ! But when he comes to his box ? 'WE HAVE NEVER SEEN HIM IN HIS BOX . 
Sell the Opera ghost's box ! Well , gentlemen , try it . 
Thereupon we all four left the office . 
Richard and I had never laughed so much in our lives . 
Firmin Richard was a very distinguished composer , who had published a number of successful pieces of all kinds and who liked nearly every form of music and every sort of musician . 
Clearly , therefore , it was the duty of every sort of musician to like M. Firmin Richard . 
The only things to be said against him were that he was rather masterful in his ways and endowed with a very hasty temper . 
M. Firmin Richard reached his office that morning at eleven o'clock . 
His secretary , M. Remy , showed him half a dozen letters which he had not opened because they were marked private . 
One of the letters had at once attracted Richard's attention not only because the envelope was addressed in red ink , but because he seemed to have seen the writing before . 
He soon rememberd that it was the red handwriting in which the memorandum book had been so curiously completed . 
He recognized the clumsy childish hand . 
He opened the letter and read DEAR MR . 
MANAGER I am sorry to have to trouble you at a time when you must be so very busy , renewing important engagements , signing fresh ones and generally displaying your excellent taste . 
I know what you have done for Carlotta , Sorelli and little Jammes and for a few others whose admirable qualities of talent or genius you have suspected . 
And I am not speaking of Christine Daae either , though her genius is certain , whereas your jealousy prevents her from creating any important part . 
I did not protest , first , because I dislike scandal , and , second , because I thought that your predecessors , MM . 
Debienne and Poligny , who were always charming to me , had neglected , before leaving , to mention my little fads to you . 
IF YOU WISH TO LIVE IN PEACE , YOU MUST NOT BEGIN BY TAKING AWAY MY PRIVATE BOX . 
Believe me to be , dear Mr. Manager , without prejudice to these little observations , Your Most Humble and Obedient Servant , OPERA GHOST . 
M. Firmin Richard had hardly finished reading this letter when M. Armand Moncharmin entered , carrying one exactly similar . 
They looked at each other and burst out laughing . 
They are keeping up the joke , said M. Richard , but I don't call it funny . 
What does it all mean ? asked M. Moncharmin . 
It's harmless enough , observed Armand Moncharmin . 
What is it they really want ? A box for to night ? M. Firmin Richard told his secretary to send Box Five on the grand tier to Mm . 
Debienne and Poligny , if it was not sold . 
It was sent off to them . 
Debienne lived at the corner of the Rue Scribe and the Boulevard des Capucines Poligny , in the Rue Auber . 
O. Ghost's two letters had been posted at the Boulevard des Capucines post office , as Moncharmin remarked after examining the envelopes . 
You see ! said Richard . 
They shrugged their shoulders and regretted that two men of that age should amuse themselves with such childish tricks . 
They might have been civil , for all that ! said Moncharmin . 
Reputations are easily obtained , replied Moncharmin . 
Haven't I a reputation for knowing all about music ? And I don't know one key from another . 
Don't be afraid you never had that reputation , Richard declared . 
Next morning , the managers received a card of thanks from the ghost DEAR , MR . 
Carlotta a splendid commonplace instrument . 
Will write you soon for the , francs , or , fr . 
Debienne and Poligny have sent me the , fr . 
representing the first ten days of my allowance for the current year their privileges finished on the evening of the tenth inst . 
O. G. On the other hand , there was a letter from Mm . 
See Clause , final paragraph . 
Accept , gentlemen , etc . 
Oh , those fellows are beginning to annoy me ! shouted Firmin Richard , snatching up the letter . 
And that evening Box Five was sold . 
The next morning , Mm . 
Richard and Moncharmin , on reaching their office , found an inspector's report relating to an incident that had happened , the night before , in Box Five . 
The occupants , who arrived as the curtain rose on the second act , created a regular scandal by their laughter and their ridiculous observations . 
There were cries of Hush ! all around them and the whole house was beginning to protest , when the box keeper came to fetch me . 
I entered the box and said what I thought necessary . 
The people did not seem to me to be in their right mind and they made stupid remarks . 
I said that , if the noise was repeated , I should be compelled to clear the box . 
The moment I left , I heard the laughing again , with fresh protests from the house . 
I returned with a municipal guard , who turned them out . 
They protested , still laughing , saying they would not go unless they had their money back . 
At last , they became quiet and I allowed them to enter the box again . 
The laughter at once recommenced and , this time , I had them turned out definitely . 
Send for the inspector , said Richard to his secretary , who had already read the report and marked it with blue pencil . 
M. Remy , the secretary , had foreseen the order and called the inspector at once . 
Tell us what happened , said Richard bluntly . 
The inspector began to splutter and referred to the report . 
Well , but what were those people laughing at ? asked Moncharmin . 
They must have been dining , sir , and seemed more inclined to lark about than to listen to good music . 
The moment they entered the box , they came out again and called the box keeper , who asked them what they wanted . 
They said , Look in the box there's no one there , is there ? No , said the woman . 
The inspector , to curry favor with M. Moncharmin , who was smiling , thought it best to give a smile too . 
A most unfortunate smile ! M. Richard glared at his subordinate , who thenceforth made it his business to display a face of utter consternation . 
Oh , you agree , do you ? said Richard . 
You agree ! It's a joke ! And you think it funny , no doubt ? I think it in very bad taste , sir . 
And what did the box keeper say ? Oh , she just said that it was the Opera ghost . 
That's all she said ! And the inspector grinned . 
But he soon found that he had made a mistake in grinning , for the words had no sooner left his mouth than M. Richard , from gloomy , became furious . 
Send for the box keeper ! he shouted . 
Then , when the wretched man's lips seemed shut for ever , the manager commanded him to open them once more . 
Who is this Opera ghost ? he snarled . 
But the inspector was by this time incapable of speaking a word . 
He managed to convey , by a despairing gesture , that he knew nothing about it , or rather that he did not wish to know . 
Very well ! said M. Richard coldly . 
As he seems to be everywhere , I can't have people telling me that they see him nowhere . 
She soon made her appearance . 
What's your name ? Mme . 
Giry , in her faded shawl , her worn shoes , her old taffeta dress and dingy bonnet . 
It was quite evident from the manager's attitude , that he either did not know or could not remember having met Mme . 
Giry , nor even little Giry , nor even little Meg ! But Mme . 
Giry's pride was so great that the celebrated box keeper imagined that everybody knew her . 
Never heard of her ! the manager declared . 
But that's no reason , Mme . 
They wouldn't listen to me either , at first . 
I'm not asking you about all that . 
I'm asking what happened last night . 
Giry turned purple with indignation . 
Never had she been spoken to like that . 
The ghost was annoyed again ! Thereupon , as M. Richard was on the point of bursting out , M. Moncharmin interfered and conducted the interrogatory , whence it appeared that Mme . 
Giry thought it quite natural that a voice should be heard to say that a box was taken , when there was nobody in the box . 
She was unable to explain this phenomenon , which was not new to her , except by the intervention of the ghost . 
Nobody could see the ghost in his box , but everybody could hear him . 
She had often heard him and they could believe her , for she always spoke the truth . 
Did the ghost break poor Isidore Saack's leg ? Mme . 
Giry opened her eyes with astonishment at such ignorance . 
However , she consented to enlighten those two poor innocents . 
The thing had happened in M. Debienne and M. Poligny's time , also in Box Five and also during a performance of FAUST . 
Giry coughed , cleared her throat it sounded as though she were preparing to sing the whole of Gounod's score and began It was like this , sir . 
saying , Ha , ha ! Julie's not playing at sleeping ! His wife happened to be called Julie . 
M. Maniera turns to the right to see who was talking to him like that . 
Nobody there ! He rubs his ear and asks himself , if he's dreaming . 
Then Mephistopheles went on with his serenade . 
But , perhaps I'm boring you gentlemen ? No , no , go on . 
You are too good , gentlemen , with a smirk . 
Well , then , Mephistopheles went on with his serenade Mme . 
Giry , burst into song again Saint , unclose thy portals holy and accord the bliss , to a mortal bending lowly , of a pardon kiss . 
There was a great uproar . 
People in the house shouted , That will do ! Stop them ! He'll kill him ! Then , at last , M. Isidore Saack managed to run away . 
Then the ghost had not broken his leg ? asked M. Moncharmin , a little vexed that his figure had made so little impression on Mme . 
He did break it for him , sir , replied Mme . 
No , sir , it was M. Maniera himself . 
So But you have spoken to the ghost , my good lady ? As I'm speaking to you now , my good sir ! Mme . 
Only the inspector , warned by experience , was careful not to laugh , while Mme . 
Giry ventured to adopt an attitude that was positively threatening . 
Instead of laughing , she cried indignantly , you'd do better to do as M. Poligny did , who found out for himself . 
Found out about what ? asked Moncharmin , who had never been so much amused in his life . 
About the ghost , of course ! . 
She suddenly calmed herself , feeling that this was a solemn moment in her life LOOK HERE , she repeated . 
They were playing La Juive . 
M. Poligny thought he would watch the performance from the ghost's box . 
Well , when Leopold cries , Let us fly ! you know and Eleazer stops them and says , Whither go ye ? . 
Still , that doesn't let us know how the Opera ghost came to ask you for a footstool , insisted M. Moncharmin . 
Well , from that evening , no one tried to take the ghost's private box from him . 
The manager gave orders that he was to have it at each performance . 
And , whenever he came , he asked me for a footstool . 
Tut , tut ! A ghost asking for a footstool ! Then this ghost of yours is a woman ? No , the ghost is a man . 
He gives three little taps on the door of Box Five . 
Jules' my poor husband's name was Jules a footstool , please . 
Saving your presence , gentlemen , it made me feel all overish like . 
But the voice went on , Don't be frightened , Mme . 
Jules , I'm the Opera ghost ! And the voice was so soft and kind that I hardly felt frightened . 
THE VOICE WAS SITTING IN THE CORNER CHAIR , ON THE RIGHT , IN THE FRONT ROW . 
Was there any one in the box on the right of Box Five ? asked Moncharmin . 
No Box Seven , and Box Three , the one on the left , were both empty . 
The curtain had only just gone up . 
And what did you do ? Well , I brought the footstool . 
Of course , it wasn't for himself he wanted it , but for his lady ! But I never heard her nor saw her . 
Eh ? What ? So now the ghost is married ! The eyes of the two managers traveled from Mme . 
Giry to the inspector , who , standing behind the box keeper , was waving his arms to attract their attention . 
Only , since people have begun to annoy him again , he gives me nothing at all . 
Excuse me , my good woman , said Moncharmin , while Mme . 
I find them with the program , which I always give him . 
Some evenings , I find flowers in the box , a rose that must have dropped from his lady's bodice . 
for he brings a lady with him sometimes one day , they left a fan behind them . 
Oh , the ghost left a fan , did he ? And what did you do with it ? Well , I brought it back to the box next night . 
Here the inspector's voice was raised . 
You've broken the rules I shall have to fine you , Mme . 
Hold your tongue , you fool ! muttered M. Firmin Richard . 
You brought back the fan . 
That's one of the ghost's pretty thoughts . 
That will do , Mme . 
Left alone , the managers told each other of the idea which they both had in mind , which was that they should look into that little matter of Box Five themselves . 
Chapter V The Enchanted Violin Christine Daae , owing to intrigues to which I will return later , did not immediately continue her triumph at the Opera . 
After the famous gala night , she sang once at the Duchess de Zurich's but this was the last occasion on which she was heard in private . 
She refused , without plausible excuse , to appear at a charity concert to which she had promised her assistance . 
She acted throughout as though she were no longer the mistress of her own destiny and as though she feared a fresh triumph . 
Her reason for this curious attitude was never known . 
Some pretended that it was due to overweening pride others spoke of her heavenly modesty . 
But people on the stage are not so modest as all that and I think that I shall not be far from the truth if I ascribe her action simply to fear . 
Yes , I believe that Christine Daae was frightened by what had happened to her . 
, relating to this period , which suggests a feeling of absolute dismay I don't know myself when I sing , writes the poor child . 
She showed herself nowhere and the Vicomte de Chagny tried in vain to meet her . 
I feel that I must write to you to day , when I am going to Perros , in fulfilment of a sacred duty . 
To morrow is the anniversary of the death of my poor father , whom you knew and who was very fond of you . 
He spent a dismal day in town and did not recover his spirits until the evening , when he was seated in his compartment in the Brittany express . 
Day was breaking when he alighted at Lannion . 
He hurried to the diligence for Perros Guirec . 
He was the only passenger . 
The nearer he drew to her , the more fondly he remembered the story of the little Swedish singer . 
Most of the details are still unknown to the public . 
This peasant had a little daughter to whom he taught the musical alphabet before she knew how to read . 
Daae's father was a great musician , perhaps without knowing it . 
Not a fiddler throughout the length and breadth of Scandinavia played as he did . 
His reputation was widespread and he was always invited to set the couples dancing at weddings and other festivals . 
His wife died when Christine was entering upon her sixth year . 
Then the father , who cared only for his daughter and his music , sold his patch of ground and went to Upsala in search of fame and fortune . 
He found nothing but poverty . 
One day , at Ljimby Fair , Professor Valerius heard them and took them to Gothenburg . 
He maintained that the father was the first violinist in the world and that the daughter had the making of a great artist . 
Her education and instruction were provided for . 
She made rapid progress and charmed everybody with her prettiness , her grace of manner and her genuine eagerness to please . 
When Valerius and his wife went to settle in France , they took Daae and Christine with them . 
Mamma Valerius treated Christine as her daughter . 
As for Daae , he began to pine away with homesickness . 
He never went out of doors in Paris , but lived in a sort of dream which he kept up with his violin . 
For hours at a time , he remained locked up in his bedroom with his daughter , fiddling and singing , very , very softly . 
Sometimes Mamma Valerius would come and listen behind the door , wipe away a tear and go down stairs again on tiptoe , sighing for her Scandinavian skies . 
Often he would play his saddest tunes on the beach and pretend that the sea stopped its roaring to listen to them . 
And then he induced Mamma Valerius to indulge a queer whim of his . 
They followed them from village to village . 
They came to the shore of an inlet which is still called Trestraou , but which now , I believe , harbors a casino or something of the sort . 
At that time , there was nothing but sky and sea and a stretch of golden beach . 
Only , there was also a high wind , which blew Christine's scarf out to sea . 
Christine gave a cry and put out her arms , but the scarf was already far on the waves . 
Then she heard a voice say It's all right , I'll go and fetch your scarf out of the sea . 
And she saw a little boy running fast , in spite of the outcries and the indignant protests of a worthy lady in black . 
The little boy ran into the sea , dressed as he was , and brought her back her scarf . 
Boy and scarf were both soaked through . 
During the season , they saw each other and played together almost every day . 
At the aunt's request , seconded by Professor Valerius , Daae consented to give the young viscount some violin lessons . 
In this way , Raoul learned to love the same airs that had charmed Christine's childhood . 
They also both had the same calm and dreamy little cast of mind . 
They delighted in stories , in old Breton legends and their favorite sport was to go and ask for them at the cottage doors , like beggars Ma'am . 
And , the moment he stopped , the children would ask for more . 
And another Little Lotte thought of everything and nothing . 
Her hair was golden as the sun's rays and her soul as clear and blue as her eyes . 
Sometimes , the Angel comes much later , because the children are naughty and won't learn their lessons or practise their scales . 
And , sometimes , he does not come at all , because the children have a bad heart or a bad conscience . 
No one ever sees the Angel but he is heard by those who are meant to hear him . 
He often comes when they least expect him , when they are sad and disheartened . 
Then their ears suddenly perceive celestial harmonies , a divine voice , which they remember all their lives . 
Persons who are visited by the Angel quiver with a thrill unknown to the rest of mankind . 
And they can not touch an instrument , or open their mouths to sing , without producing sounds that put all other human sounds to shame . 
Then people who do not know that the Angel has visited those persons say that they have genius . 
Little Christine asked her father if he had heard the Angel of Music . 
Three years later , Raoul and Christine met again at Perros . 
The young man , as he now was , had come to Perros on the chance of finding them and went straight to the house in which they used to stay . 
He first saw the old man and then Christine entered , carrying the tea tray . 
She flushed at the sight of Raoul , who went up to her and kissed her . 
She asked him a few questions , performed her duties as hostess prettily , took up the tray again and left the room . 
Then she ran into the garden and took refuge on a bench , a prey to feelings that stirred her young heart for the first time . 
Raoul followed her and they talked till the evening , very shyly . 
They were quite changed , cautious as two diplomatists , and told each other things that had nothing to do with their budding sentiments . 
As for Christine , she tried not to think of him and devoted herself wholly to her art . 
She made wonderful progress and those who heard her prophesied that she would be the greatest singer in the world . 
Meanwhile , the father died and , suddenly , she seemed to have lost , with him , her voice , her soul and her genius . 
He returned to listen to her . 
He followed her in the wings . 
He waited for her behind a Jacob's ladder . 
He tried to attract her attention . 
More than once , he walked after her to the door of her box , but she did not see him . 
She seemed , for that matter , to see nobody . 
Raoul suffered , for she was very beautiful and he was shy and dared not confess his love , even to himself . 
And then came the lightning flash of the gala performance the heavens torn asunder and an angel's voice heard upon earth for the delight of mankind and the utter capture of his heart . 
and then there was that man's voice behind the door You must love me ! and no one in the room . 
Why did she laugh when he reminded her of the incident of the scarf ? Why did she not recognize him ? And why had she written to him ? . 
Perros was reached at last . 
Raoul walked into the smoky sitting room of the Setting Sun and at once saw Christine standing before him , smiling and showing no astonishment . 
So you have come , she said . 
I felt that I should find you here , when I came back from mass . 
Some one told me so , at the church . 
Who ? asked Raoul , taking her little hand in his . 
Why , my poor father , who is dead . 
In a trembling voice , she said Me ? You are dreaming , my friend ! And she burst out laughing , to put herself in countenance . 
Don't laugh , Christine I am quite serious , Raoul answered . 
And she replied gravely I did not make you come to tell me such things as that . 
You made me come , Christine you knew that your letter would not leave me indignant and that I should hasten to Perros . 
I really don't know what I thought . 
Perhaps I was wrong to write to you . 
There was something in Christine's attitude that seemed to Raoul not natural . 
He did not feel any hostility in her far from it the distressed affection shining in her eyes told him that . 
But why was this affection distressed ? That was what he wished to know and what was irritating him . 
When you saw me in your dressing room , was that the first time you noticed me , Christine ? She was incapable of lying . 
No , she said , I had seen you several times in your brother's box . 
And also on the stage . 
I thought so ! said Raoul , compressing his lips . 
A husband , a lover with all rights , would talk no differently to a wife , a mistress who had offended him . 
But he had gone too far and saw no other way out of the ridiculous position than to behave odiously . 
You don't answer ! he said angrily and unhappily . 
Well , I will answer for you . 
And to what other do you refer ? To the man to whom you said , I sing only for you ! . 
to night I gave you my soul and I am dead ! Christine seized Raoul's arm and clutched it with a strength which no one would have suspected in so frail a creature . 
Then you were listening behind the door ? Yes , because I love you everything . 
You heard what ? And the young girl , becoming strangely calm , released Raoul's arm . 
No emperor ever received so fair a gift . 
Christine carried her hand to her heart , a prey to indescribable emotion . 
Her eyes stared before her like a madwoman's . 
But suddenly Christine's eyes moistened and two great tears trickled , like two pearls , down her ivory cheeks . 
Christine ! Raoul ! The young man tried to take her in his arms , but she escaped and fled in great disorder . 
While Christine remained locked in her room , Raoul was at his wit's end what to do . 
He was terribly concerned and bitterly grieved to see the hours , which he had hoped to find so sweet , slip past without the presence of the young Swedish girl . 
They were marvelous red roses that had blossomed in the morning , in the snow , giving a glimpse of life among the dead , for death was all around him . 
It also , like the flowers , issued from the ground , which had flung back a number of its corpses . 
Skeletons and skulls by the hundred were heaped against the wall of the church , held in position by a wire that left the whole gruesome stack visible . 
Dead men's bones , arranged in rows , like bricks , to form the first course upon which the walls of the sacristy had been built . 
The door of the sacristy opened in the middle of that bony structure , as is often seen in old Breton churches . 
The wind fell with the evening . 
Raoul was surrounded by icy darkness , but he did not feel the cold . 
It was here , he remembered , that he used to come with little Christine to see the Korrigans dance at the rising of the moon . 
He had never seen any , though his eyes were good , whereas Christine , who was a little shortsighted , pretended that she had seen many . 
He smiled at the thought and then suddenly gave a start . 
A voice behind him said Do you think the Korrigans will come this evening ? It was Christine . 
She put her gloved hand on his mouth . 
I have decided to tell you something serious , very serious . 
Do you remember the legend of the Angel of Music ? I do indeed , he said . 
I believe it was here that your father first told it to us . 
And it was here that he said , When I am in Heaven , my child , I will send him to you . 
Well , Raoul , my father is in Heaven , and I have been visited by the Angel of Music . 
I understand , he said , that no human being can sing as you sang the other evening without the intervention of some miracle . 
No professor on earth can teach you such accents as those . 
You have heard the Angel of Music , Christine . 
Yes , she said solemnly , IN MY DRESSING ROOM . 
That is where he comes to give me my lessons daily . 
In your dressing room ? he echoed stupidly . 
Yes , that is where I have heard him and I have not been the only one to hear him . 
Who else heard him , Christine ? You , my friend . 
I ? I heard the Angel of Music ? Yes , the other evening , it was he who was talking when you were listening behind the door . 
It was he who said , You must love me . 
But I then thought that I was the only one to hear his voice . 
Imagine my astonishment when you told me , this morning , that you could hear him too , Raoul burst out laughing . 
The first rays of the moon came and shrouded the two young people in their light . 
Christine turned on Raoul with a hostile air . 
Her eyes , usually so gentle , flashed fire . 
What are you laughing at ? YOU think you heard a man's voice , I suppose ? Well ! . 
replied the young man , whose ideas began to grow confused in the face of Christine's determined attitude . 
It's you , Raoul , who say that ? You , an old playfellow of my own ! A friend of my father's ! But you have changed since those days . 
What are you thinking of ? I am an honest girl , M. le Vicomte de Chagny , and I don't lock myself up in my dressing room with men's voices . 
Well ? The viscount summoned up all his courage . 
Well , Christine , I think that somebody is making game of you . 
She gave a cry and ran away . 
He ran after her , but , in a tone of fierce anger , she called out Leave me ! Leave me ! And she disappeared . 
Raoul returned to the inn feeling very weary , very low spirited and very sad . 
He was told that Christine had gone to her bedroom saying that she would not be down to dinner . 
Raoul dined alone , in a very gloomy mood . 
Then he went to his room and tried to read , went to bed and tried to sleep . 
There was no sound in the next room . 
It was about half past eleven when he distinctly heard some one moving , with a light , stealthy step , in the room next to his . 
Then Christine had not gone to bed ! Without troubling for a reason , Raoul dressed , taking care not to make a sound , and waited . 
Waited for what ? How could he tell ? But his heart thumped in his chest when he heard Christine's door turn slowly on its hinges . 
She went down the stairs and he leaned over the baluster above her . 
Suddenly he heard two voices in rapid conversation . 
He caught one sentence Don't lose the key . 
It was the landlady's voice . 
The door facing the sea was opened and locked again . 
Raoul ran back to his room and threw back the window . 
Christine's white form stood on the deserted quay . 
She ran at once to tell Christine , who hurried down and , with the help of the landlady , did her best to revive him . 
He soon opened his eyes and was not long in recovering when he saw his friend's charming face leaning over him . 
I quote the questions and answers as given in the official report pp . 
In fact , I was anxious that she should turn round and see me . 
I realized that I had no excuse for following her and that this way of spying on her was unworthy of me . 
But she seemed not to hear me and acted exactly as though I were not there . 
She quietly left the quay and then suddenly walked quickly up the road . 
Q. Was the gate open ? R. Yes , monsieur , and this surprised me , but did not seem to surprise Mlle . 
Q. Was there no one in the churchyard ? R. I did not see any one and , if there had been , I must have seen him . 
The moon was shining on the snow and made the night quite light . 
Q. Was it possible for any one to hide behind the tombstones ? R. No , monsieur . 
They were quite small , poor tombstones , partly hidden under the snow , with their crosses just above the level of the ground . 
The only shadows were those of the crosses and ourselves . 
The church stood out quite brightly . 
I never saw so clear a night . 
It was very fine and very cold and one could see everything . 
I was only surprised that she had not heard me walking behind her , for my footsteps were quite audible on the hard snow . 
But she must have been taken up with her intentions and I resolved not to disturb her . 
She knelt down by her father's grave , made the sign of the cross and began to pray . 
At that moment , it struck midnight . 
At the last stroke , I saw Mlle . 
Daae life sic her eyes to the sky and stretch out her arms as though in ecstasy . 
But it had never been executed with such divine art , even by M. Daae . 
I remembered all that Christine had told me of the Angel of Music . 
The air was The Resurrection of Lazarus , which old M. Daae used to play to us in his hours of melancholy and of faith . 
If Christine's Angel had existed , he could not have played better , that night , on the late musician's violin . 
When the music stopped , I seemed to hear a noise from the skulls in the heap of bones it was as though they were chuckling and I could not help shuddering . 
Daae , when she stood up and walked slowly to the gate . 
She was so much absorbed just then that I am not surprised that she did not see me . 
Q. Then what happened that you were found in the morning lying half dead on the steps of the high altar ? R. First a skull rolled to my feet . 
It was as if I were the mark of that ghastly game of bowls . 
And I had an idea that false step must have destroyed the balance of the structure behind which our musician was concealed . 
This surmise seemed to be confirmed when I saw a shadow suddenly glide along the sacristy wall . 
The shadow had already pushed open the door and entered the church . 
But I was quicker than the shadow and caught hold of a corner of its cloak . 
At that moment , we were just in front of the high altar and the moonbeams fell straight upon us through the stained glass windows of the apse . 
I felt as if I were face to face with Satan and , in the presence of this unearthly apparition , my heart gave way , my courage failed me . 
and I remember nothing more until I recovered consciousness at the Setting Sun . 
Chapter V A Visit to Box Five We left M. Firmin Richard and M. Armand Moncharmin at the moment when they were deciding to look into that little matter of Box Five . 
They were almost alone in the huge , gloomy house and a great silence surrounded them . 
It was the time when most of the stage hands go out for a drink . 
The staff had left the boards for the moment , leaving a scene half set . 
Moncharmin and Richard were the shipwrecked mariners amid this motionless turmoil of a calico sea . 
They made for the left boxes , plowing their way like sailors who leave their ship and try to struggle to the shore . 
At the top , right on top of the cliff , lost in M. Lenepveu's copper ceiling , figures grinned and grimaced , laughed and jeered at MM . 
And yet these figures were usually very serious . 
Their names were Isis , Amphitrite , Hebe , Pandora , Psyche , Thetis , Pomona , Daphne , Clytie , Galatea and Arethusa . 
I have said that they were distressed . 
At least , I presume so . 
M. Moncharmin , in any case , admits that he was impressed . 
To quote his own words , in his Memoirs This moonshine about the Opera ghost in which , since we first took over the duties of MM . 
Poligny and Debienne , we had been so nicely steeped Moncharmin's style is not always irreproachable had no doubt ended by blinding my imaginative and also my visual faculties . 
It may be that the exceptional surroundings in which we found ourselves , in the midst of an incredible silence , impressed us to an unusual extent . 
It may be that we were the sport of a kind of hallucination brought about by the semi darkness of the theater and the partial gloom that filled Box Five . 
At any rate , I saw and Richard also saw a shape in the box . 
Richard said nothing , nor I either . 
But we spontaneously seized each other's hand . 
We stood like that for some minutes , without moving , with our eyes fixed on the same point but the figure had disappeared . 
Then we went out and , in the lobby , communicated our impressions to each other and talked about the shape . 
The misfortune was that my shape was not in the least like Richard's . 
I had seen a thing like a death's head resting on the ledge of the box , whereas Richard saw the shape of an old woman who looked like Mme . 
Box Five is just like all the other grand tier boxes . 
There is nothing to distinguish it from any of the others . 
But they saw that it was a respectable arm chair , with no magic about it . 
Altogether , the box was the most ordinary box in the world , with its red hangings , its chairs , its carpet and its ledge covered in red velvet . 
After , feeling the carpet in the most serious manner possible , and discovering nothing more here or anywhere else , they went down to the corresponding box on the pit tier below . 
In Box Five on the pit tier , which is just inside the first exit from the stalls on the left , they found nothing worth mentioning either . 
Those people are all making fools of us ! Firmin Richard ended by exclaiming . 
It consists of the four following conditions . 
You must give me back my private box and I wish it to be at my free disposal from henceforward . 
The part of Margarita shall be sung this evening by Christine Daae . 
Never mind about Carlotta she will be ill . 
I absolutely insist upon the good and loyal services of Mme . 
Giry , my box keeper , whom you will reinstate in her functions forthwith . 
Let me know by a letter handed to Mme . 
Giry , who will see that it reaches me , that you accept , as your predecessors did , the conditions in my memorandum book relating to my monthly allowance . 
I will inform you later how you are to pay it to me . 
If you refuse , you will give FAUST to night in a house with a curse upon it . 
Take my advice and be warned in time . 
O. G. Look here , I'm getting sick of him , sick of him ! shouted Richard , bringing his fists down on his officetable . 
Just then , Mercier , the acting manager , entered . 
Lachcnel would like to see one of you gentlemen , he said . 
He says that his business is urgent and he seems quite upset . 
Who's Lachcnel ? asked Richard . 
What do you mean ? My stud groom ? Yes , sir , explained Mercier , there are several grooms at the Opera and M. Lachcnel is at the head of them . 
And what does this groom do ? He has the chief management of the stable . 
What stable ? Why , yours , sir , the stable of the Opera . 
Is there a stable at the Opera ? Upon my word , I didn't know . 
Where is it ? In the cellars , on the Rotunda side . 
It's a very important department we have twelve horses . 
It is the grooms' business to teach them . 
M. Lachcnel is very clever at it . 
He used to manage Franconi's stables . 
but what does he want . 
I don't know I never saw him in such a state . 
M. Lachenel came in , carrying a riding whip , with which he struck his right boot in an irritable manner . 
Good morning , M. Lachenel , said Richard , somewhat impressed . 
To what do we owe the honor of your visit ? Mr. Manager , I have come to ask you to get rid of the whole stable . 
What , you want to get rid of our horses ? I'm not talking of the horses , but of the stablemen . 
How many stablemen have you , M. Lachenel ? Six stablemen ! That's at least two too many . 
These are places , Mercier interposed , created and forced upon us by the under secretary for fine arts . 
They are filled by protegees of the government and , if I may venture to . 
I don't care a hang for the government ! roared Richard . 
We don't need more than four stablemen for twelve horses . 
Eleven , said the head riding master , correcting him . 
Oh , the acting manager told me that you had twelve horses ! I did have twelve , but I have only eleven since Cesar was stolen . 
And M. Lachenel gave himself a great smack on the boot with his whip . 
Has Cesar been stolen ? cried the acting manager . 
Cesar , the white horse in the Profeta ? There are not two Cesars , said the stud groom dryly . 
I was ten years at Franconi's and I have seen plenty of horses in my time . 
Well , there are not two Cesars . 
How ? I don't know . 
That's why I have come to ask you to sack the whole stable . 
What do your stablemen say ? All sorts of nonsense . 
Some of them accuse the supers . 
Others pretend that it's the acting manager's doorkeeper . 
My doorkeeper ? I'll answer for him as I would for myself ! protested Mercier . 
But , after all , M. Lachenel , cried Richard , you must have some idea . 
Yes , I have , M. Lachenel declared . 
I have an idea and I'll tell you what it is . 
There's no doubt about it in my mind . 
He walked up to the two managers and whispered . 
It's the ghost who did the trick ! Richard gave a jump . 
That will do , M. Lachenel . 
We will lodge a complaint against THE GHOST . 
And sack my stable ? Oh , of course ! Good morning . 
M. Lachenel bowed and withdrew . 
Richard foamed at the mouth . 
Settle that idiot's account at once , please . 
He is a friend of the government representative's ! Mercier ventured to say . 
And he takes his vermouth at Tortoni's with Lagrene , Scholl and Pertuiset , the lion hunter , added Moncharmin . 
At that moment the door opened . 
It must have been deserted by its usual Cerberus , for Mme . 
He told me to come to you , that you had something to . 
She did not complete the sentence . 
She saw Firmin Richard's face and it was a terrible sight . 
He seemed ready to burst . 
He said nothing , he could not speak . 
First , his left arm seized upon the quaint person of Mme . 
Giry and made her describe so unexpected a semicircle that she uttered a despairing cry . 
Next , his right foot imprinted its sole on the black taffeta of a skirt which certainly had never before undergone a similar outrage in a similar place . 
The thing happened so quickly that Mme . 
Giry , when in the passage , was still quite bewildered and seemed not to understand . 
But , suddenly , she understood and the Opera rang with her indignant yells , her violent protests and threats . 
About the same time , Carlotta , who had a small house of her own in the Rue du Faubourg St . 
Honore , rang for her maid , who brought her letters to her bed . 
a misfortune worse than death . 
The letter took away Carlotta's appetite for breakfast . 
She pushed back her chocolate , sat up in bed and thought hard . 
It was not the first letter of the kind which she had received , but she never had one couched in such threatening terms . 
She thought herself , at that time , the victim of a thousand jealous attempts and went about saying that she had a secret enemy who had sworn to ruin her . 
The truth is that , if there was a cabal , it was led by Carlotta herself against poor Christine , who had no suspicion of it . 
Carlotta had never forgiven Christine for the triumph which she had achieved when taking her place at a moment's notice . 
Certain newspapers which had begun to extol the talent of Christine now interested themselves only in the fame of Carlotta . 
Lastly , in the theater itself , the celebrated , but heartless and soulless diva made the most scandalous remarks about Christine and tried to cause her endless minor unpleasantnesses . 
When Carlotta had finished thinking over the threat contained in the strange letter , she got up . 
We shall see , she said , adding a few oaths in her native Spanish with a very determined air . 
The first thing she saw , when looking out of her window , was a hearse . 
She was very superstitious and the hearse and the letter convinced her that she was running the most serious dangers that evening . 
It was five o'clock when the post brought a second anonymous letter in the same hand as the first . 
It was short and said simply You have a bad cold . 
If you are wise , you will see that it is madness to try to sing to night . 
Carlotta sneered , shrugged her handsome shoulders and sang two or three notes to reassure herself . 
Her friends were faithful to their promise . 
They were all at the Opera that night , but looked round in vain for the fierce conspirators whom they were instructed to suppress . 
The only unusual thing was the presence of M. Richard and M. Moncharmin in Box Five . 
M. Richard and M. Moncharmin were thinking of nothing but their ghost . 
The performance has only begun and you know that the ghost does not usually come until the middle of the first act . 
The first act passed without incident , which did not surprise Carlotta's friends , because Margarita does not sing in this act . 
As for the managers , they looked at each other , when the curtain fell . 
That's one ! said Moncharmin . 
Yes , the ghost is late , said Firmin Richard . 
It's not a bad house , said Moncharmin , for a house with a curse on it . 
Who on earth are those ? asked Moncharmin . 
Those , my dear fellow , are my concierge , her husband and her brother . 
Did you give them their tickets ? I did . 
Moncharmin asked what he meant and Richard answered that he had persuaded his concierge , in whom he had the greatest confidence , to come and take Mme . 
With whom ? The ghost ? The ghost ! Moncharmin had almost forgotten him . 
What's the matter ? they both asked , amazed at seeing him there at such a time . 
It seems there's a plot got up by Christine Daae's friends against Carlotta . 
? said Richard , knitting his brows . 
But the curtain rose on the kermess scene and Richard made a sign to the stage manager to go away . 
When the two were alone again , Moncharmin leaned over to Richard Then Daae has friends ? he asked . 
Whom ? Richard glanced across at a box on the grand tier containing no one but two men . 
The Comte de Chagny ? Yes , he spoke to me in her favor with such warmth that , if I had not known him to be Sorelli's friend . 
Really ? Really ? said Moncharmin . 
And who is that pale young man beside him ? That's his brother , the viscount . 
He ought to be in his bed . 
Christine Daae looked charming in her boy's clothes and Carlotta's partisans expected to hear her greeted with an ovation which would have enlightened them as to the intentions of her friends . 
It was so unexpected and so uncalled for that those who knew nothing about the rumors looked at one another and asked what was happening . 
And this act also was finished without incident . 
Then everybody said Of course , it will be during the next act . 
The first thing they saw , on entering the box , was a box of English sweets on the little shelf of the ledge . 
Who had put it there ? They asked the box keepers , but none of them knew . 
Then they went back to the shelf and , next to the box of sweets , found an opera glass . 
They looked at each other . 
They had no inclination to laugh . 
Giry had told them returned to their memory . 
they seemed to feel a curious sort of draft around them . 
They sat down in silence . 
The scene represented Margarita's garden Gentle flow'rs in the dew , Be message from me . 
Something seemed to deaden and dull her singing . 
What a queer girl she is ! said one of Carlotta's friends in the stalls , almost aloud . 
The other day she was divine and to night she's simply bleating . 
She has no experience , no training . 
Gentle flow'rs , lie ye there And tell her from me . 
The viscount put his head under his hands and wept . 
The count , behind him , viciously gnawed his mustache , shrugged his shoulders and frowned . 
For him , usually so cold and correct , to betray his inner feelings like that , by outward signs , the count must be very angry . 
He had seen his brother return from a rapid and mysterious journey in an alarming state of health . 
The explanation that followed was unsatisfactory and the count asked Christine Daae for an appointment . 
She had the audacity to reply that she could not see either him or his brother . 
Would she but deign to hear me And with one smile to cheer me . 
The little baggage ! growled the count . 
And he wondered what she wanted . 
What she was hoping for . 
She was a virtuous girl , she was said to have no friend , no protector of any sort . 
If you love me just a little , do this for me , for me who will never forget you , my dear Raoul . 
My life depends upon it . 
Your life depends upon it . 
I wish I could but know who was he That addressed me , If he was noble , or , at least , what his name is . 
She was no longer Margarita , she was Carmen . 
She was applauded all the more and her debut with Faust seemed about to bring her a new success , when suddenly . 
At that moment , at that identical moment , the terrible thing happened . 
Carlotta croaked like a toad Co ack ! There was consternation on Carlotta's face and consternation on the faces of all the audience . 
The two managers in their box could not suppress an exclamation of horror . 
Every one felt that the thing was not natural , that there was witchcraft behind it . 
That toad smelt of brimstone . 
Poor , wretched , despairing , crushed Carlotta ! The uproar in the house was indescribable . 
If the thing had happened to any one but Carlotta , she would have been hooted . 
And even then they would have seen . 
Meanwhile , in Box Five , Moncharmin and Richard had turned very pale . 
This extraordinary and inexplicable incident filled them with a dread which was the more mysterious inasmuch as for some little while , they had , fallen within the direct influence of the ghost . 
They had felt his breath . 
Moncharmin's hair stood on end . 
Richard wiped the perspiration from his forehead . 
They were sure that there were three people in the box . 
They thought of running away . 
They dared not make a movement or exchange a word that would have told the ghost that they knew that he was there ! . 
What was going to happen ? This happened . 
Co ack ! Their joint exclamation of horror was heard all over the house . 
THEY FELT THAT THEY WERE SMARTING UNDER THE GHOST'S ATTACKS . 
Leaning over the ledge of their box , they stared at Carlotta as though they did not recognize her . 
That infernal girl must have given the signal for some catastrophe . 
Richard's stifled voice was heard calling to Carlotta Well , go on ! No , Carlotta did not go on . 
Bravely , heroically , she started afresh on the fatal line at the end of which the toad had appeared . 
An awful silence succeeded the uproar . 
Carlotta's voice alone once more filled the resounding house I feel without alarm . 
The audience also felt , but not without alarm . 
The chandelier , the immense mass of the chandelier was slipping down , coming toward them , at the call of that fiendish voice . 
Released from its hook , it plunged from the ceiling and came smashing into the middle of the stalls , amid a thousand shouts of terror . 
A wild rush for the doors followed . 
The papers of the day state that there were numbers wounded and one killed . 
As for Christine Daae , she disappeared after the performance . 
A fortnight elapsed during which she was seen neither at the Opera nor outside . 
Raoul , of course , was the first to be astonished at the prima donna's absence . 
He wrote to her at Mme . 
Valerius' flat and received no reply . 
His grief increased and he ended by being seriously alarmed at never seeing her name on the program . 
FAUST was played without her . 
One afternoon he went to the managers' office to ask the reason of Christine's disappearance . 
He found them both looking extremely worried . 
Their own friends did not recognize them they had lost all their gaiety and spirits . 
They were seen crossing the stage with hanging heads , care worn brows , pale cheeks , as though pursued by some abominable thought or a prey to some persistent sport of fate . 
The fall of the chandelier had involved them in no little responsibility but it was difficult to make them speak about it . 
And I feel bound to say that MM . 
In their daily intercourse , they showed themselves very impatient , except with Mme . 
Giry , who had been reinstated in her functions . 
And their reception of the Vicomte de Chagny , when he came to ask about Christine , was anything but cordial . 
They merely told him that she was taking a holiday . 
He asked how long the holiday was for , and they replied curtly that it was for an unlimited period , as Mlle . 
Daae had requested leave of absence for reasons of health . 
Then she is ill ! he cried . 
What is the matter with her ? We don't know . 
Didn't you send the doctor of the Opera to see her ? No , she did not ask for him and , as we trust her , we took her word . 
Raoul left the building a prey to the gloomiest thoughts . 
He resolved , come what might , to go and inquire of Mamma Valerius . 
He remembered the strong phrases in Christine's letter , forbidding him to make any attempt to see her . 
Of whom was Christine Daae the victim ? This was the very reasonable question which Raoul put to himself as he hurried off to Mamma Valerius . 
He trembled as he rang at a little flat in the Rue Notre Dame des Victoires . 
The door was opened by the maid whom he had seen coming out of Christine's dressing room one evening . 
He asked if he could speak to Mme . 
He was told that she was ill in bed and was not receiving visitors . 
Take in my card , please , he said . 
The maid soon returned and showed him into a small and scantily furnished drawing room , in which portraits of Professor Valerius and old Daae hung on opposite walls . 
Madame begs Monsieur le Vicomte to excuse her , said the servant . 
She can only see him in her bedroom , because she can no longer stand on her poor legs . 
Five minutes later , Raoul was ushered into an ill lit room where he at once recognized the good , kind face of Christine's benefactress in the semi darkness of an alcove . 
M. de Chagny ! she cried gaily , putting out both her hands to her visitor . 
Ah , it's Heaven that sends you here ! . 
We can talk of HER . 
This last sentence sounded very gloomily in the young man's ears . 
He at once asked Madame . 
where is Christine ? And the old lady replied calmly She is with her good genius ! What good genius ? exclaimed poor Raoul . 
Why , the Angel of Music ! The viscount dropped into a chair . 
I know ! I know I can ! she said , with a happy laugh . 
I am very fond of you , M. Raoul , you know . 
And so is Christine too ! She is fond of me ! sighed the young man . 
He asked in a low voice What makes you think that Christine is fond of me , madame ? She used to speak of you every day . 
And what did she tell you ? She told me that you had made her a proposal ! And the good old lady began laughing wholeheartedly . 
Raoul sprang from his chair , flushing to the temples , suffering agonies . 
What's this ? Where are you going ? Sit down again at once , will you ? . 
Do you think I will let you go like that ? . 
If you're angry with me for laughing , I beg your pardon . 
After all , what has happened isn't your fault . 
Did you think that Christine was free ? . 
Is Christine engaged to be married ? the wretched Raoul asked , in a choking voice . 
Why no ! Why no ! . 
You know as well as I do that Christine couldn't marry , even if she wanted to ! But I don't know anything about it ! . 
And why can't Christine marry ? Because of the Angel of Music , of course ! . 
Yes , he forbids her to ! . 
The Angel of Music forbids her to marry ! Oh , he forbids her . 
It's like this he tells her that , if she got married , she would never hear him again . 
And that he would go away for ever ! . 
So , you understand , she can't let the Angel of Music go . 
Yes , yes , echoed Raoul submissively , it's quite natural . 
Besides , I thought Christine had told you all that , when she met you at Perros , where she went with her good genius . 
The old lady did not seem surprised at this indiscreet command . 
She raised her eyes and said In Heaven ! Such simplicity baffled him . 
He did not know what to say in the presence of this candid and perfect faith in a genius who came down nightly from Heaven to haunt the dressing rooms at the Opera . 
Is Christine still a good girl ? he asked suddenly , in spite of himself . 
I swear it , as I hope to be saved ! exclaimed the old woman , who , this time , seemed to be incensed . 
And , if you doubt it , sir , I don't know what you are here for ! Raoul tore at his gloves . 
How long has she known this genius ? About three months . 
Yes , it's quite three months since he began to give her lessons . 
The viscount threw up his arms with a gesture of despair . 
The genius gives her lessons ! . 
And where , pray ? Now that she has gone away with him , I can't say but , up to a fortnight ago , it was in Christine's dressing room . 
It would be impossible in this little flat . 
The whole house would hear them . 
And he hurriedly took leave of Mme . 
Valerius , who asked herself if the young nobleman was not a little off his head . 
He walked home to his brother's house in a pitiful state . 
Oh , what a miserable , little , insignificant , silly young man was M. le Vicomte de Chagny ! thought Raoul , furiously . 
And she , what a bold and damnable sly creature ! His brother was waiting for him and Raoul fell into his arms , like a child . 
The count consoled him , without asking for explanations and Raoul would certainly have long hesitated before telling him the story of the Angel of Music . 
His brother suggested taking him out to dinner . 
At first , the viscount refused to believe but he received such exact details that he ceased protesting . 
She had been seen , it appeared , driving in a brougham , with the window down . 
She seemed to be slowly taking in the icy night air . 
There was a glorious moon shining . 
She was recognized beyond a doubt . 
As for her companion , only his shadowy outline was distinguished leaning back in the dark . 
The carriage was going at a walking pace in a lonely drive behind the grand stand at Longchamp . 
Raoul dressed in frantic haste , prepared to forget his distress by flinging himself , as people say , into the vortex of pleasure . 
The road seemed deserted and very bright under the moonlight . 
He told the driver to wait for him patiently at the corner of a near turning and , hiding himself as well as he could , stood stamping his feet to keep warm . 
As it approached , he saw that a woman was leaning her head from the window . 
And , suddenly , the moon shed a pale gleam over her features . 
Christine ! The sacred name of his love had sprung from his heart and his lips . 
He could not keep it back . 
The carriage window had been closed and the girl's face had disappeared . 
And the brougham , behind which he was now running , was no more than a black spot on the white road . 
He called out again Christine ! No reply . 
And he stopped in the midst of the silence . 
With a lack luster eye , he stared down that cold , desolate road and into the pale , dead night . 
She had passed without answering his cry . 
And he was thinking of dying and he was twenty years old ! . 
His valet found him in the morning sitting on his bed . 
He had not undressed and the servant feared , at the sight of his face , that some disaster had occurred . 
Raoul snatched his letters from the man's hands . 
He had recognized Christine's paper and hand writing . 
She said DEAR Go to the masked ball at the Opera on the night after to morrow . 
At twelve o'clock , be in the little room behind the chimney place of the big crush room . 
Stand near the door that leads to the Rotunda . 
Don't mention this appointment to any one on earth . 
Wear a white domino and be carefully masked . 
As you love me , do not let yourself be recognized . 
Chapter IX At the Masked Ball The envelope was covered with mud and unstamped . 
It bore the words To be handed to M. le Vicomte Raoul de Chagny , with the address in pencil . 
It must have been flung out in the hope that a passer by would pick up the note and deliver it , which was what happened . 
The note had been picked up on the pavement of the Place de l'Opera . 
Raoul read it over again with fevered eyes . 
No more was needed to revive his hope . 
What had happened ? What influence had she undergone ? What monster had carried her off and by what means ? . 
By what means indeed but that of music ? He knew Christine's story . 
After her father's death , she acquired a distaste of everything in life , including her art . 
She went through the CONSERVATOIRE like a poor soulless singing machine . 
And , suddenly , she awoke as though through the intervention of a god . 
The Angel of Music appeared upon the scene ! She sang Margarita in FAUST and triumphed ! . 
The Angel of Music ! . 
For three months the Angel of Music had been giving Christine lessons . 
Ah , he was a punctual singing master ! . 
And now he was taking her for drives in the Bois ! . 
Raoul's fingers clutched at his flesh , above his jealous heart . 
Thus did Raoul's thoughts fly from one extreme to the other . 
He no longer knew whether to pity Christine or to curse her and he pitied and cursed her turn and turn about . 
At all events , he bought a white domino . 
The hour of the appointment came at last . 
With his face in a mask trimmed with long , thick lace , looking like a pierrot in his white wrap , the viscount thought himself very ridiculous . 
Men of the world do not go to the Opera ball in fancy dress ! It was absurd . 
Numbers of artists had arranged to go , accompanied by a whole cohort of models and pupils , who , by midnight , began to create a tremendous din . 
Crossing the big crush room and escaping from a mad whirl of dancers in which he was caught for a moment , he at last entered the room mentioned in Christine's letter . 
He found it crammed for this small space was the point where all those who were going to supper in the Rotunda crossed those who were returning from taking a glass of champagne . 
The fun , here , waxed fast and furious . 
Raoul leaned against a door post and waited . 
He did not wait long . 
A black domino passed and gave a quick squeeze to the tips of his fingers . 
He understood that it was she and followed her Is that you , Christine ? he asked , between his teeth . 
The black domino turned round promptly and raised her finger to her lips , no doubt to warn him not to mention her name again . 
Raoul continued to follow her in silence . 
He was afraid of losing her , after meeting her again in such strange circumstances . 
His grudge against her was gone . 
He no longer doubted that she had nothing to reproach herself with , however peculiar and inexplicable her conduct might seem . 
He was ready to make any display of clemency , forgiveness or cowardice . 
And , no doubt , he would soon receive a very natural explanation of her curious absence . 
The black domino turned back from time to time to see if the white domino was still following . 
It was a man dressed all in scarlet , with a huge hat and feathers on the top of a wonderful death's head . 
When Red Death released him at last , he ran away like a very madman , pursued by the jeers of the bystanders . 
It was at this moment that Raoul passed in front of the funereal masquerader , who had just happened to turn in his direction . 
And he nearly exclaimed The death's head of Perros Guirec ! He had recognized him ! . 
The black domino kept on turning back and , apparently , on two occasions saw something that startled her , for she hurried her pace and Raoul's as though they were being pursued . 
They went up two floors . 
Here , the stairs and corridors were almost deserted . 
The black domino opened the door of a private box and beckoned to the white domino to follow her . 
Raoul took off his mask . 
And , when Raoul was about to ask her to remove it , he was surprised to see her put her ear to the partition and listen eagerly for a sound outside . 
Then she opened the door ajar , looked out into the corridor and , in a low voice , said He must have gone up higher . 
and slowly , majestically , the whole scarlet dress of Red Death met his eyes . 
And he once more saw the death's head of Perros Guirec . 
It's he ! he exclaimed . 
This time , he shall not escape me ! . 
But Christian sic had slammed the door at the moment when Raoul was on the point of rushing out . 
He tried to push her aside . 
Whom do you mean by he' ? she asked , in a changed voice . 
Who shall not escape you ? Raoul tried to overcome the girl's resistance by force , but she repelled him with a strength which he would not have suspected in her . 
He understood , or thought he understood , and at once lost his temper . 
Who ? he repeated angrily . 
Why , he , the man who hides behind that hideous mask of death ! . 
The evil genius of the churchyard at Perros ! . 
In a word , madam , your friend . 
your Angel of Music ! . 
With a tragic gesture , she flung out her two arms , which fixed a barrier of white flesh against the door . 
In the name of our love , Raoul , you shall not pass ! . 
What had she said ? . 
In the name of their love ? . 
Never before had she confessed that she loved him . 
And yet she had had opportunities enough . 
Pooh , her only object was to gain a few seconds ! . 
She wished to give the Red Death time to escape . 
And he burst into tears . 
She allowed him to insult her . 
She thought of but one thing , to keep him from leaving the box . 
You will beg my pardon , one day , for all those ugly words , Raoul , and when you do I shall forgive you ! He shook his head . 
No , no , you have driven me mad ! When I think that I had only one object in life to give my name to an opera wench ! Raoul ! . 
How can you ? I shall die of shame ! No , dear , live ! said Christine's grave and changed voice . 
The boy stepped forward , staggering as he went . 
He risked one more sarcasm Oh , you must let me come and applaud you from time to time ! I shall never sing again , Raoul ! . 
Really ? he replied , still more satirically . 
So he is taking you off the stage I congratulate you ! . 
But we shall meet in the Bois , one of these evenings ! Not in the Bois nor anywhere , Raoul you shall not see me again . 
May one ask at least to what darkness you are returning ? . 
For what hell are you leaving , mysterious lady . 
or for what paradise ? I came to tell you , dear , but I can't tell you now . 
But look here ! he cried . 
Can't you tell me what all this means ! . 
You are free , there is no one to interfere with you . 
You put on a domino to come to the ball . 
Why do you not go home ? . 
What have you been doing this past fortnight ? . 
What is this tale about the Angel of Music , which you have been telling Mamma Valerius ? Some one may have taken you in , played upon your innocence . 
I was a witness of it myself , at Perros . 
but you know what to believe now ! You seem to me quite sensible , Christine . 
You know what you are doing . 
And meanwhile Mamma Valerius lies waiting for you at home and appealing to your good genius ! . 
Explain yourself , Christine , I beg of you ! Any one might have been deceived as I was . 
The fresh complexion of former days was gone . 
My dearest ! My dearest ! he moaned , holding out his arms . 
You promised to forgive me . 
Some day , perhaps ! she said , resuming her mask and she went away , forbidding him , with a gesture , to follow her . 
He tried to disobey her but she turned round and repeated her gesture of farewell with such authority that he dared not move a step . 
He watched her till she was out of sight . 
His footsteps took him to that room where he had first known suffering . 
He tapped at the door . 
He entered , as he had entered when he looked everywhere for the man's voice . 
A gas jet was burning , turned down low . 
He saw some writing paper on a little desk . 
He thought of writing to Christine , but he heard steps in the passage . 
He had only time to hide in the inner room , which was separated from the dressing room by a curtain . 
Christine entered , took off her mask with a weary movement and flung it on the table . 
She sighed and let her pretty head fall into her two hands . 
What was she thinking of ? Of Raoul ? No , for Raoul heard her murmur Poor Erik ! At first , he thought he must be mistaken . 
To begin with , he was persuaded that , if any one was to be pitied , it was he , Raoul . 
It would have been quite natural if she had said , Poor Raoul , after what had happened between them . 
What coolness ! he said to himself . 
She wrote on , filling two , three , four sheets . 
Suddenly , she raised her head and hid the sheets in her bodice . 
She seemed to be listening . 
Whence came that strange sound , that distant rhythm ? . 
A faint singing seemed to issue from the walls . 
yes , it was as though the walls themselves were singing ! . 
the words were now distinguishable . 
he heard a voice , a very beautiful , very soft , very captivating voice . 
but , for all its softness , it remained a male voice . 
The voice came nearer and nearer . 
it came through the wall . 
and now the voice was IN THE ROOM , in front of Christine . 
Christine rose and addressed the voice , as though speaking to some one Here I am , Erik , she said . 
Raoul , peeping from behind the curtain , could not believe his eyes , which showed him nothing . 
A smile of happiness appeared upon her bloodless lips , a smile like that of sick people when they receive the first hope of recovery . 
The voice was singing the Wedding night Song from Romeo and Juliet . 
Raoul saw Christine stretch out her arms to the voice as she had done , in Perros churchyard , to the invisible violin playing The Resurrection of Lazarus . 
And nothing could describe the passion with which the voice sang Fate links thee to me for ever and a day ! The strains went through Raoul's heart . 
Fate links thee to me for ever and a day ! Christine walked toward her image in the glass and the image came toward her . 
The two Christines the real one and the reflection ended by touching and Raoul put out his arms to clasp the two in one embrace . 
At last , everything stood still again and he saw himself in the glass . 
He rushed up to the glass . 
He struck at the walls . 
Nobody ! And meanwhile the room still echoed with a distant passionate singing Fate links thee to me for ever and a day ! Which way , which way had Christine gone ? . 
Which way would she return ? . 
Like her , he let his head fall into his hands . 
He came upon a charming picture . 
Christine herself was seated by the bedside of the old lady , who was sitting up against the pillows , knitting . 
The pink and white had returned to the young girl's cheeks . 
The dark rings round her eyes had disappeared . 
Raoul no longer recognized the tragic face of the day before . 
She rose , without showing any emotion , and offered him her hand . 
But Raoul's stupefaction was so great that he stood there dumfounded , without a gesture , without a word . 
I thought , mamma , that there was to be no more question of that ! . 
I should be the first to delight at your return , if you were not so bent on preserving a secrecy that may be fatal to you . 
and I have been your friend too long not to be alarmed , with Mme . 
Valerius , at a disastrous adventure which will remain dangerous so long as we have not unraveled its threads and of which you will certainly end by being the victim , Christine . 
At these words , Mamma Valerius tossed about in her bed . 
What does this mean ? she cried . 
Is Christine in danger ? Yes , madame , said Raoul courageously , notwithstanding the signs which Christine made to him . 
My God ! exclaimed the good , simple old woman , gasping for breath . 
You must tell me everything , Christine ! Why did you try to reassure me ? And what danger is it , M. de Chagny ? An impostor is abusing her good faith . 
Is the Angel of Music an impostor ? She told you herself that there is no Angel of Music . 
Don't believe him , mummy , don't believe him , she repeated . 
Then tell me that you will never leave me again , implored the widow . 
Christine was silent and Raoul resumed . 
That is what you must promise , Christine . 
It is the only thing that can reassure your mother and me . 
We will undertake not to ask you a single question about the past , if you promise us to remain under our protection in future . 
That is an undertaking which I have not asked of you and a promise which I refuse to make you ! said the young girl haughtily . 
I am mistress of my own actions , M. de Chagny you have no right to control them , and I will beg you to desist henceforth . 
You have no husband and yet you wear a wedding ring . 
He tried to seize her hand , but she swiftly drew it back . 
That's a present ! she said , blushing once more and vainly striving to hide her embarrassment . 
And what did she answer , madame ? What I chose , said Christine , driven to exasperation . 
Don't you think , monsieur , that this cross examination has lasted long enough ? As far as I am concerned . 
Raoul was afraid to let her finish her speech . 
He interrupted her I beg your pardon for speaking as I did , mademoiselle . 
You know the good intentions that make me meddle , just now , in matters which , you no doubt think , have nothing to do with me . 
yes , YOUR ECSTASY ! And that is what makes me alarmed on your behalf . 
You are under a very dangerous spell . 
When a man , continued Raoul , adopts such romantic methods to entice a young girl's affections . 
I at least know the name that you thought to keep from me for ever . 
The name of your Angel of Music , mademoiselle , is Erik ! Christine at once betrayed herself . 
When you went to your dressing room , did you not say , Poor Erik ? Well , Christine , there was a poor Raoul who overheard you . 
This is the second time that you have listened behind the door , M. de Chagny ! I was not behind the door . 
I was in the dressing room , in the inner room , mademoiselle . 
Oh , unhappy man ! moaned the girl , showing every sign of unspeakable terror . 
Unhappy man ! Do you want to be killed ? Perhaps . 
Raoul uttered this perhaps with so much love and despair in his voice that Christine could not keep back a sob . 
You must never try to fathom the mystery of THE MAN'S VOICE . 
Is the mystery so very terrible ? There is no more awful mystery on this earth . 
Swear to me that you will make no attempt to find out , she insisted . 
Swear to me that you will never come to my dressing room , unless I send for you . 
Then you promise to send for me sometimes , Christine ? I promise . 
Then I swear to do as you ask . 
He kissed her hands and went away , cursing Erik and resolving to be patient . 
Chapter XI Above the Trap Doors The next day , he saw her at the Opera . 
She was still wearing the plain gold ring . 
She was gentle and kind to him . 
She talked to him of the plans which he was forming , of his future , of his career . 
He told her that the date of the Polar expedition had been put forward and that he would leave France in three weeks , or a month at latest . 
She suggested , almost gaily , that he must look upon the voyage with delight , as a stage toward his coming fame . 
And when he replied that fame without love was no attraction in his eyes , she treated him as a child whose sorrows were only short lived . 
How can you speak so lightly of such serious things ? he asked . 
Perhaps we shall never see each other again ! I may die during that expedition . 
Or I , she said simply . 
She no longer smiled or jested . 
She seemed to be thinking of some new thing that had entered her mind for the first time . 
Her eyes were all aglow with it . 
What are you thinking of , Christine ? I am thinking that we shall not see each other again . 
She put her hand on his mouth . 
You know there is no question of that . 
And we shall never be married that is understood ! She seemed suddenly almost unable to contain an overpowering gaiety . 
She clapped her hands with childish glee . 
Raoul stared at her in amazement . 
we can be engaged ! Nobody will know but ourselves , Raoul . 
There have been plenty of secret marriages why not a secret engagement ? . 
Then she became serious again . 
This , she said , IS A HAPPINESS THAT WILL HARM NO ONE . 
Raoul jumped at the idea . 
He bowed to Christine and said Mademoiselle , I have the honor to ask for your hand . 
Why , you have both of them already , my dear betrothed ! . 
Oh , Raoul , how happy we shall be ! . 
We must play at being engaged all day long . 
It was the prettiest game in the world and they enjoyed it like the children that they were . 
She did not say a word in reply to Raoul's remark and went straight home . 
In the evening , she did not sing and he did not receive his usual letter , though they had arranged to write to each other daily during that month . 
The next morning , he ran off to Mamma Valerius , who told him that Christine had gone away for two days . 
She had left at five o'clock the day before . 
He hated Mamma Valerius for giving him such news as that with such stupefying calmness . 
He tried to sound her , but the old lady obviously knew nothing . 
Christine returned on the following day . 
She renewed her extraordinary success of the gala performance . 
Since the adventure of the toad , Carlotta had not been able to appear on the stage . 
The terror of a fresh co ack filled her heart and deprived her of all her power of singing and the theater that had witnessed her incomprehensible disgrace had become odious to her . 
She contrived to cancel her contract . 
Daae was offered the vacant place for the time . 
She received thunders of applause in the Juive . 
A distant voice whispered in the young man's ear She is wearing the ring again to night and you did not give it to her . 
She gave her soul again tonight and did not give it to you . 
If she will not tell you what she has been doing the past two days . 
you must go and ask Erik ! He ran behind the scenes and placed himself in her way . 
She saw him for her eyes were looking for him . 
She said Quick ! Quick ! . 
Come ! And she dragged him to her dressing room . 
Raoul at once threw himself on his knees before her . 
He swore to her that he would go and he entreated her never again to withhold a single hour of the ideal happiness which she had promised him . 
She let her tears flow . 
They kissed like a despairing brother and sister who have been smitten with a common loss and who meet to mourn a dead parent . 
Suddenly , she snatched herself from the young man's soft and timid embrace , seemed to listen to something , and , with a quick gesture , pointed to the door . 
But those two days of absence had broken the charm of their delightful make believe . 
They looked at each other , in the dressing room , with their sad eyes , without exchanging a word . 
Raoul had to restrain himself not to cry out I am jealous ! I am jealous ! I am jealous ! But she heard him all the same . 
Then she said Come for a walk , dear . 
The air will do you good . 
Raoul thought that she would propose a stroll in the country , far from that building which he detested as a prison whose jailer he could feel walking within the walls . 
On another day , she wandered with him , hand in , hand , along the deserted paths of a garden whose creepers had been cut out by a decorator's skilful hands . 
An occasional fireman passed , watching over their melancholy idyll from afar . 
Meanwhile , Christine gave them sweets instead . 
There were inhabitants of that country who practised every trade . 
There were cobblers , there were goldsmiths . 
All had learned to know her and to love her , for she always interested herself in all their troubles and all their little hobbies . 
She knew unsuspected corners that were secretly occupied by little old couples . 
Those old people remembered nothing outside the Opera . 
They had lived there for years without number . 
Past managements had forgotten them palace revolutions had taken no notice of them the history of France had run its course unknown to them and nobody recollected their existence . 
The precious days sped in this way and Raoul and Christine , by affecting excessive interest in outside matters , strove awkwardly to hide from each other the one thought of their hearts . 
One fact was certain , that Christine , who until then had shown herself the stronger of the two , became suddenly inexpressibly nervous . 
When on their expeditions , she would start running without reason or else suddenly stop and her hand , turning ice cold in a moment , would hold the young man back . 
Sometimes her eyes seemed to pursue imaginary shadows . 
She cried , This way , and This way , and This way , laughing a breathless laugh that often ended in tears . 
Then Raoul tried to speak , to question her , in spite of his promises . 
But , even before he had worded his question , she answered feverishly Nothing . 
I swear it is nothing . 
Once , when they were passing before an open trapdoor on the stage , Raoul stopped over the dark cavity . 
You have shown me over the upper part of your empire , Christine , but there are strange stories told of the lower part . 
I will not have you go there ! . 
Besides , it's not mine . 
EVERYTHING THAT IS UNDERGROUND BELONGS TO HIM ! Raoul looked her in the eyes and said roughly So he lives down there , does he ? I never said so . 
Who told you a thing like that ? Come away ! I sometimes wonder if you are quite sane , Raoul . 
You always take things in such an impossible way . 
Come along ! Come ! And she literally dragged him away , for he was obstinate and wanted to remain by the trap door that hole attracted him . 
Suddenly , the trap door was closed and so quickly that they did not even see the hand that worked it and they remained quite dazed . 
Perhaps HE was there , Raoul said , at last . 
She shrugged her shoulders , but did not seem easy . 
No , no , it was the trap door shutters . 
They must do something , you know . 
They open and shut the trap doors without any particular reason . 
It's like the door shutters they must spend their time somehow . 
But suppose it were HE , Christine ? No , no ! He has shut himself up , he is working . 
Oh , really ! He's working , is he ? Yes , he can't open and shut the trap doors and work at the same time . 
What is he working at ? Oh , something terrible ! . 
But it's all the better for us . 
When he's working at that , he sees nothing he does not eat , drink , or breathe for days and nights at a time . 
he becomes a living dead man and has no time to amuse himself with the trap doors . 
She was still holding him in her arms . 
Then she sighed and said , in her turn Suppose it were HE ! Are you afraid of him ? No , no , of course not , she said . 
For all that , on the next day and the following days , Christine was careful to avoid the trap doors . 
Her agitation only increased as the hours passed . 
Hush ! Hush , in Heaven's name I Suppose HE heard you , you unfortunate Raoul ! And Christine's eyes stared wildly at everything around her . 
I will remove you from his power , Christine , I swear it . 
And you shall not think of him any more . 
I shall hide you in some unknown corner of the world , where HE can not come to look for you . 
You will be safe and then I shall go away . 
as you have sworn never to marry . 
Christine seized Raoul's hands and squeezed them with incredible rapture . 
But , suddenly becoming alarmed again , she turned away her head . 
Higher ! was all she said . 
Higher still ! And she dragged him up toward the summit . 
He had a difficulty in following her . 
They were soon under the very roof , in the maze of timber work . 
They slipped through the buttresses , the rafters , the joists they ran from beam to beam as they might have run from tree to tree in a forest . 
As for Raoul , he saw nothing either for , when he had Christine in front of him , nothing interested him that happened behind . 
Chapter XII Apollo's Lyre On this way , they reached the roof . 
Christine tripped over it as lightly as a swallow . 
Their eyes swept the empty space between the three domes and the triangular pediment . 
She breathed freely over Paris , the whole valley of which was seen at work below . 
It was a gorgeous spring evening . 
He is a demon ! And she shivered and nestled in his arms with a moan . 
I am afraid now of going back to live with him . 
in the ground ! What compels you to go back , Christine ? If I do not go back to him , terrible misfortunes may happen ! . 
But I can't do it , I can't do it ! . 
I know one ought to be sorry for people who live underground . 
And he will drag me with him , underground , and go on his knees before me , with his death's head . 
No , no , she said , shaking her head sadly . 
It would be too cruel . 
let him hear me sing to morrow evening . 
and then we will go away . 
You must come and fetch me in my dressing room at midnight exactly . 
He will then be waiting for me in the dining room by the lake . 
we shall be free and you shall take me away . 
You must promise me that , Raoul , even if I refuse for I feel that , if I go back this time , I shall perhaps never return . 
And she gave a sigh to which it seemed to her that another sigh , behind her , replied . 
Didn't you hear ? Her teeth chattered . 
No , said Raoul , I heard nothing . 
It is too terrible , she confessed , to be always trembling like this ! . 
And yet we run no danger here we are at home , in the sky , in the open air , in the light . 
The sun is flaming and night birds can not bear to look at the sun . 
I have never seen him by daylight . 
it must be awful ! . 
Oh , the first time I saw him ! . 
I thought that he was going to die . 
Why ? asked Raoul , really frightened at the aspect which this strange confidence was taking . 
BECAUSE I HAD SEEN HIM ! This time , Raoul and Christine turned round at the same time There is some one in pain , said Raoul . 
Perhaps some one has been hurt . 
Did you hear ? I can't say , Christine confessed . 
Even when he is not there , my ears are full of his sighs . 
Still , if you heard . 
They stood up and looked around them . 
They were quite alone on the immense lead roof . 
They sat down again and Raoul said Tell me how you saw him first . 
I had heard him for three months without seeing him . 
The first time I heard it , I thought , as you did , that that adorable voice was singing in another room . 
I had never got the Angel of Music whom my poor father had promised to send me as soon as he was dead . 
I really think that Mamma Valerius was a little bit to blame . 
I told her about it and she at once said , It must be the Angel at any rate , you can do no harm by asking him . 
I did so and the man's voice replied that , yes , it was the Angel's voice , the voice which I was expecting and which my father had promised me . 
From that time onward , the voice and I became great friends . 
It asked leave to give me lessons every day . 
I agreed and never failed to keep the appointment which it gave me in my dressing room . 
You have no idea , though you have heard the voice , of what those lessons were like . 
No , I have no idea , said Raoul . 
What was your accompaniment ? We were accompanied by a music which I do not know it was behind the wall and wonderfully accurate . 
The voice seemed to understand mine exactly , to know precisely where my father had left off teaching me . 
In a few weeks' time , I hardly knew myself when I sang . 
I seemed to dread a sort of witchcraft behind it but Mamma Valerius reassured me . 
She said that she knew I was much too simple a girl to give the devil a hold on me . 
My progress , by the voice's own order , was kept a secret between the voice , Mamma Valerius and myself . 
It was a curious thing , but , outside the dressing room , I sang with my ordinary , every day voice and nobody noticed anything . 
I did all that the voice asked . 
It said , Wait and see we shall astonish Paris ! And I waited and lived on in a sort of ecstatic dream . 
It was then that I saw you for the first time one evening , in the house . 
I was so glad that I never thought of concealing my delight when I reached my dressing room . 
Unfortunately , the voice was there before me and soon noticed , by my air , that something had happened . 
It asked what was the matter and I saw no reason for keeping our story secret or concealing the place which you filled in my heart . 
Then the voice was silent . 
I called to it , but it did not reply I begged and entreated , but in vain . 
I was terrified lest it had gone for good . 
I wish to Heaven it had , dear ! . 
That night , I went home in a desperate condition . 
I told Mamma Valerius , who said , Why , of course , the voice is jealous ! And that , dear , first revealed to me that I loved you . 
Christine stopped and laid her head on Raoul's shoulder . 
The next day , Christine continued , with a sigh , I went back to my dressing room in a very pensive frame of mind . 
And it said this with such an accent of HUMAN sorrow that I ought then and there to have suspected and begun to believe that I was the victim of my deluded senses . 
But my faith in the voice , with which the memory of my father was so closely intermingled , remained undisturbed . 
And that , dear , was why I refused to recognize or see you when I met you on the stage or in the passages . 
I saw the tears stream down your cheeks and I wept with you . 
How could you sing , sing like that while crying ? I felt myself fainting , said Christine , I closed my eyes . 
When I opened them , you were by my side . 
Alas , there is no deceiving the voice ! . 
The voice recognized you and the voice was jealous ! . 
It said that , if I did not love you , I would not avoid you , but treat you like any other old friend . 
It made me scene upon scene . 
That , dear , was how I came to write you the letter that brought you to Perros . 
Pity me , Raoul , pity me ! . 
My first thought was for you and the voice . 
I was at once easy , where you were concerned , for I had seen you in your brother's box and I knew that you were not in danger . 
I thought to myself , The chandelier may have come down upon the voice . 
The voice was not there . 
I locked my door and , with tears in my eyes , besought it , if it were still alive , to manifest itself to me . 
The voice did not reply , but suddenly I heard a long , beautiful wail which I knew well . 
It is the plaint of Lazarus when , at the sound of the Redeemer's voice , he begins to open his eyes and see the light of day . 
It was the music which you and I , Raoul , heard at Perros . 
I can not tell you the effect which that music had upon me . 
It seemed to command me , personally , to come , to stand up and come to it . 
It retreated and I followed . 
Come ! And believe in me ! I believed in it , I came . 
I came and this was the extraordinary thing my dressing room , as I moved , seemed to lengthen out . 
Evidently , it must have been an effect of mirrors . 
for I had the mirror in front of me . 
You , who saw me disappear from my room one evening , may be able to explain it but I can not . 
I can only tell you that , suddenly , there was no mirror before me and no dressing room . 
I was in a dark passage , I was frightened and I cried out . 
It was quite dark , but for a faint red glimmer at a distant corner of the wall . 
My voice was the only sound , for the singing and the violin had stopped . 
And , suddenly , a hand was laid on mine . 
or rather a stone cold , bony thing that seized my wrist and did not let go . 
An arm took me round the waist and supported me . 
I struggled for a little while and then gave up the attempt . 
I made one last effort my limbs stiffened , my mouth opened to scream , but a hand closed it , a hand which I felt on my lips , on my skin . 
a hand that smelt of death . 
When I opened my eyes , we were still surrounded by darkness . 
A lantern , standing on the ground , showed a bubbling well . 
He was bathing my temples and his hands smelt of death . 
I tried to push them away and asked , Who are you ? Where is the voice ? His only answer was a sigh . 
Suddenly , a hot breath passed over my face and I perceived a white shape , beside the man's black shape , in the darkness . 
The black shape lifted me on to the white shape , a glad neighing greeted my astounded ears and I murmured , Cesar ! The animal quivered . 
Raoul , I was lying half back on a saddle and I had recognized the white horse out of the PROFETA , which I had so often fed with sugar and sweets . 
I remembered that , one evening , there was a rumor in the theater that the horse had disappeared and that it had been stolen by the Opera ghost . 
I believed in the voice , but had never believed in the ghost . 
Now , however , I began to wonder , with a shiver , whether I was the ghost's prisoner . 
I called upon the voice to help me , for I should never have imagined that the voice and the ghost were one . 
The black shape held me up , and I made no effort to escape . 
A curious feeling of peacefulness came over me and I thought that I must be under the influence of some cordial . 
I had the full command of my senses and my eyes became used to the darkness , which was lit , here and there , by fitful gleams . 
I calculated that we were in a narrow circular gallery , probably running all round the Opera , which is immense , underground . 
I had once been down into those cellars , but had stopped at the third floor , though there were two lower still , large enough to hold a town . 
But the figures of which I caught sight had made me run away . 
At last , they disappeared altogether . 
The shape was still holding me up and Cesar walked on , unled and sure footed . 
Even then , it may be that my head was turning , but I don't think so no , my mind was quite clear . 
At last , Cesar raised his nostrils , sniffed the air and quickened his pace a little . 
I felt a moistness in the air and Cesar stopped . 
A sort of bluey light surrounded us . 
He rowed with a quick , powerful stroke and his eyes , under the mask , never left me . 
We slipped across the noiseless water in the bluey light which I told you of then we were in the dark again and we touched shore . 
And I was once more taken up in the man's arms . 
And then , suddenly , I was silent , dazed by the light . 
Yes , a dazzling light in the midst of which I had been put down . 
I sprang to my feet . 
They were much too civilized flowers , like those which I used to find in my dressing room after a first night . 
IT WAS THE VOICE ! My anger equaled my amazement . 
I rushed at the mask and tried to snatch it away , so as to see the face of the voice . 
The man said , You are in no danger , so long as you do not touch the mask . 
However extraordinary the adventure might be , I was now surrounded by mortal , visible , tangible things . 
And the voice , the voice which I had recognized under the mask , was on its knees before me , WAS A MAN ! And I began to cry . 
The man , still kneeling , must have understood the cause of my tears , for he said , It is true , Christine ! . 
I am not an Angel , nor a genius , nor a ghost . 
I am Erik ! Christine's narrative was again interrupted . 
An echo behind them seemed to repeat the word after her . 
Erik ! What echo ? . 
They both turned round and saw that night had fallen . 
Raoul made a movement as though to rise , but Christine kept him beside her . 
Don't go , she said . 
I want you to know everything HERE ! But why here , Christine ? I am afraid of your catching cold . 
We have nothing to fear except the trap doors , dear , and here we are miles away from the trap doors . 
and I am not allowed to see you outside the theater . 
This is not the time to annoy him . 
We must not arouse his suspicion . 
Christine ! Christine ! Something tells me that we are wrong to wait till to morrow evening and that we ought to fly at once . 
I tell you that , if he does not hear me sing tomorrow , it will cause him infinite pain . 
It is difficult not to cause him pain and yet to escape from him for good . 
You are right in that , Raoul , for certainly he will die of my flight . 
And she added in a dull voice , But then it counts both ways . 
for we risk his killing us . 
Does he love you so much ? He would commit murder for me . 
But one can find out where he lives . 
One can go in search of him . 
Now that we know that Erik is not a ghost , one can speak to him and force him to answer ! Christine shook her head . 
And you will understand that when I tell you how I left him . 
Oh , I hate him ! cried Raoul . 
And you , Christine , tell me , do you hate him too ? No , said Christine simply . 
No , of course not . 
The kind that gives you a thrill , when you think of it . 
Picture it a man who lives in a palace underground ! And he gave a leer . 
Then you want me to go back there ? said the young girl cruelly . 
Before answering that , said Raoul , at last , speaking very slowly , I should like to know with what feeling he inspires you , since you do not hate him . 
With horror ! she said . 
That is the terrible thing about it . 
He fills me with horror and I do not hate him . 
How can I hate him , Raoul ? Think of Erik at my feet , in the house on the lake , underground . 
He accuses himself , he curses himself , he implores my forgiveness ! . 
He loves me ! He lays at my feet an immense and tragic love . 
He has carried me off for love ! . 
He has imprisoned me with him , underground , for love ! . 
But he respects me he crawls , he moans , he weeps ! . 
And , when I stood up , Raoul , and told him that I could only despise him if he did not , then and there , give me my liberty . 
he offered to show me the mysterious road . 
and I was made to remember that , though he was not an angel , nor a ghost , nor a genius , he remained the voice . 
That night , we did not exchange another word . 
He sang me to sleep . 
I soon discovered that I was a prisoner and that the only outlet from my room led to a very comfortable bath room . 
You have no better nor more respectful friend in the world than myself . 
You are alone , at present , in this home which is yours . 
I am going out shopping to fetch you all the things that you can need . 
I felt sure that I had fallen into the hands of a madman . 
I ran round my little apartment , looking for a way of escape which I could not find . 
I upbraided myself for my absurd superstition , which had caused me to fall into the trap . 
I felt inclined to laugh and to cry at the same time . 
This was the state of mind in which Erik found me . 
After giving three taps on the wall , he walked in quietly through a door which I had not noticed and which he left open . 
He replied serenely , You shall never see Erik's face . 
And he reproached me with not having finished dressing at that time of day he was good enough to tell me that it was two o'clock in the afternoon . 
He said he would give me half an hour and , while he spoke , wound up my watch and set it for me . 
After which , he asked me to come to the dining room , where a nice lunch was waiting for us . 
I was very angry , slammed the door in his face and went to the bath room . 
What do you mean by the rest of the time ? I asked . 
Five days , he said , with decision . 
Erik did not eat or drink . 
I asked him what his nationality was and if that name of Erik did not point to his Scandinavian origin . 
He said that he had no name and no country and that he had taken the name of Erik by accident . 
What I had touched was cold and , at the same time , bony and I remembered that his hands smelt of death . 
Oh , forgive me ! he moaned . 
And he opened a door before me . 
This is my bedroom , if you care to see it . 
His manners , his words , his attitude gave me confidence and I went in without hesitation . 
I felt as if I were entering the room of a dead person . 
In the middle of the room was a canopy , from which hung curtains of red brocaded stuff , and , under the canopy , an open coffin . 
That is where I sleep , said Erik . 
One has to get used to everything in life , even to eternity . 
The sight upset me so much that I turned away my head . 
Then I saw the keyboard of an organ which filled one whole side of the walls . 
On the desk was a music book covered with red notes . 
I asked leave to look at it and read , Don Juan Triumphant . 
Yes , he said , I compose sometimes . 
I began that work twenty years ago . 
When I have finished , I shall take it away with me in that coffin and never wake up again . 
You must work at it as seldom as you can , I said . 
He replied , I sometimes work at it for fourteen days and nights together , during which I live on music only , and then I rest for years at a time . 
Will you play me something out of your Don Juan Triumphant ? I asked , thinking to please him . 
You must never ask me that , he said , in a gloomy voice . 
Thereupon we returned to the drawing room . 
I noticed that there was no mirror in the whole apartment . 
I was going to remark upon this , but Erik had already sat down to the piano . 
He said , You see , Christine , there is some music that is so terrible that it consumes all those who approach it . 
Fortunately , you have not come to that music yet , for you would lose all your pretty coloring and nobody would know you when you returned to Paris . 
Let us sing something from the Opera , Christine Daae . 
He spoke these last words as though he were flinging an insult at me . 
What did you do ? I had no time to think about the meaning he put into his words . 
We at once began the duet in Othello and already the catastrophe was upon us . 
I sang Desdemona with a despair , a terror which I had never displayed before . 
As for him , his voice thundered forth his revengeful soul at every note . 
Love , jealousy , hatred , burst out around us in harrowing cries . 
Erik's black mask made me think of the natural mask of the Moor of Venice . 
Suddenly , I felt a need to see beneath the mask . 
I wanted to know the FACE of the voice , and , with a movement which I was utterly unable to control , swiftly my fingers tore away the mask . 
Horror ! Raoul and Christine , clasping each other closely , raised their eyes to the stars that shone in a clear and peaceful sky . 
Raoul said Strange , Christine , that this calm , soft night should be so full of plaintive sounds . 
One would think that it was sorrowing with us . 
When you know the secret , Raoul , your ears , like mine , will be full of lamentations . 
And then you saw Red Death stalking about at the last masked ball . 
But all those death's heads were motionless and their dumb horror was not alive . 
When a woman has seen me , as you have , she belongs to me . 
She loves me for ever . 
Enough ! Enough ! cried Raoul . 
But , in any case , I will kill him ! Oh , Raoul , listen , listen ! . 
He dragged me by my hair and then . 
Oh , it is too horrible ! Well , what ? Out with it ! exclaimed Raoul fiercely . 
Out with it , quick ! Then he hissed at me . 
Ah , I frighten you , do I ? . 
Perhaps you think that I have another mask , eh , and that this . 
He tore his flesh with my nails , tore his terrible dead flesh with my nails ! . 
Look , I am not laughing now , I am crying , crying for you , Christine , who have torn off my mask and who therefore can never leave me again ! . 
As long as you thought me handsome , you could have come back , I know you would have come back . 
but , now that you know my hideousness , you would run away for good . 
So I shall keep you here ! . 
Why did you want to see me ? Oh , mad Christine , who wanted to see me ! . 
And then he crawled away like a snake , went into his room , closed the door and left me alone to my reflections . 
Presently I heard the sound of the organ and then I began to understand Erik's contemptuous phrase when he spoke about Opera music . 
What I now heard was utterly different from what I had heard up to then . 
seemed to me at first one long , awful , magnificent sob . 
But , little by little , it expressed every emotion , every suffering of which mankind is capable . 
It intoxicated me and I opened the door that separated us . 
Erik rose , as I entered , BUT DARED NOT TURN IN MY DIRECTION . 
He fell at my feet , with words of love . 
with words of love in his dead mouth . 
and the music had ceased . 
He kissed the hem of my dress and did not see that I closed my eyes . 
What more can I tell you , dear ? You now know the tragedy . 
It went on for a fortnight a fortnight during which I lied to him . 
My lies were as hideous as the monster who inspired them but they were the price of my liberty . 
I burned his mask and I managed so well that , even when he was not singing , he tried to catch my eye , like a dog sitting by its master . 
He was my faithful slave and paid me endless little attentions . 
Here a carriage awaited us and took us to the Bois . 
The night when we met you was nearly fatal to me , for he is terribly jealous of you and I had to tell him that you were soon going away . 
That sob attached me to the unfortunate man more than I myself suspected when saying good by to him . 
to the great danger of both of us ? I doubted your love for me , during those hours . 
Do you doubt it still , Raoul ? . 
There was no performance at the Opera that night and the passages were empty . 
Raoul wanted to stop and ask for an explanation . 
But who is he ? Who is that man ? he asked . 
Christine replied It's the Persian . 
What's he doing here ? Nobody knows . 
He is always in the Opera . 
You are making me run away , for the first time in my life . 
My dear Raoul , you would first have had to climb up to Apollo's lyre that is no easy matter . 
And Christine went down another floor , with Raoul following her . 
As you have quite made up your mind to go , Christine , I assure you it would be better to go at once . 
Why wait for to morrow ? He may have heard us to night . 
No , no , he is working , I tell you , at his Don Juan Triumphant and not thinking of us . 
You're so sure of that you keep on looking behind you ! Come to my dressing room . 
Hadn't we better meet outside the Opera ? Never , till we go away for good ! It would bring us bad luck , if I did not keep my word . 
I promised him to see you only here . 
It's a good thing for me that he allowed you even that . 
M. de Chagny is in love with you and is going abroad . 
Before he goes , I want him to be as happy as I am . 
Are people so unhappy when they love ? Yes , Christine , when they love and are not sure of being loved . 
They came to Christine's dressing room . 
Why do you think that you are safer in this room than on the stage ? asked Raoul . 
You heard him through the walls here , therefore he can certainly hear us . 
No. He gave me his word not to be behind the walls of my dressing room again and I believe Erik's word . 
This room and my bedroom on the lake are for me , exclusively , and not to be approached by him . 
Would he hear you ? Erik will hear me wherever I call him . 
He is a very curious genius . 
You must not think , Raoul , that he is simply a man who amuses himself by living underground . 
He does things that no other man could do he knows things which nobody in the world knows . 
Take care , Christine , you are making a ghost of him again ! No , he is not a ghost he is a man of Heaven and earth , that is all . 
A man of Heaven and earth . 
A nice way to speak of him ! . 
And are you still resolved to run away from him ? Yes , to morrow . 
You say that , after listening to the performance , he is to wait for you in the dining room on the lake ? Yes . 
And how are you to reach him , if you don't know how to go out by the glass ? Why , by going straight to the edge of the lake . 
Christine opened a box , took out an enormous key and showed it to Raoul . 
What's that ? he asked . 
The key of the gate to the underground passage in the Rue Scribe . 
It leads straight to the lake . 
Give it to me , Christine , will you ? Never ! she said . 
That would be treacherous ! Suddenly Christine changed color . 
A mortal pallor overspread her features . 
Oh heavens ! she cried . 
Erik ! Erik ! Have pity on me ! Hold your tongue ! said Raoul . 
You told me he could hear you ! But the singer's attitude became more and more inexplicable . 
She wrung her fingers , repeating , with a distraught air Oh , Heaven ! Oh , Heaven ! But what is it ? What is it ? Raoul implored . 
the gold ring he gave me . 
As long as you keep it , you will be protected against all danger and Erik will remain your friend . 
But woe to you if you ever part with it , for Erik will have his revenge ! . 
My dear , my dear , the ring is gone ! . 
Woe to us both ! They both looked for the ring , but could not find it . 
Christine refused to be pacified . 
It was while I gave you that kiss , up above , under Apollo's lyre , she said . 
The ring must have slipped from my finger and dropped into the street ! We can never find it . 
And what misfortunes are in store for us now ! Oh , to run away ! Let us run away at once , Raoul insisted , once more . 
He thought that she was going to say yes . 
Raoul went home , greatly perturbed at all that he had heard . 
But I shall save her . 
He put out his lamp and felt a need to insult Erik in the dark . 
Thrice over , he shouted Humbug ! . 
Humbug ! But , suddenly , he raised himself on his elbow . 
A cold sweat poured from his temples . 
Two eyes , like blazing coals , had appeared at the foot of his bed . 
They stared at him fixedly , terribly , in the darkness of the night . 
Raoul was no coward and yet he trembled . 
He put out a groping , hesitating hand toward the table by his bedside . 
He found the matches and lit his candle . 
Still uneasy in his mind , he thought to himself She told me that HIS eyes only showed in the dark . 
His eyes have disappeared in the light , but HE may be there still . 
And he rose , hunted about , went round the room . 
He looked under his bed , like a child . 
Then he thought himself absurd , got into bed again and blew out the candle . 
He sat up and stared back at them with all the courage he possessed . 
He opened the balcony window , looked out , saw nothing and closed the window again . 
He went back to bed , shivering , for the night was cold , and put the revolver on the table within his reach . 
The eyes were still there , at the foot of the bed . 
Were they between the bed and the window pane or behind the pane , that is to say , on the balcony ? That was what Raoul wanted to know . 
He also wanted to know if those eyes belonged to a human being . 
He wanted to know everything . 
Then , patiently , calmly , he seized his revolver and took aim . 
He aimed a little above the two eyes . 
Surely , if they were eyes and if above those two eyes there was a forehead and if Raoul was not too clumsy . 
The shot made a terrible din amid the silence of the slumbering house . 
And , while footsteps came hurrying along the passages , Raoul sat up with outstretched arm , ready to fire again , if need be . 
This time , the two eyes had disappeared . 
Servants appeared , carrying lights Count Philippe , terribly anxious What is it ? I think I have been dreaming , replied the young man . 
I fired at two stars that kept me from sleeping . 
You're raving ! Are you ill ? For God's sake , tell me , Raoul what happened ? And the count seized hold of the revolver . 
No , no , I'm not raving . 
Besides , we shall soon see . 
The count saw that the window had been pierced by a bullet at a man's height . 
Raoul was leaning over the balcony with his candle Aha ! he said . 
Here , there , more blood ! . 
That's a good thing ! A ghost who bleeds is less dangerous ! he grinned . 
Raoul ! Raoul ! Raoul ! The count was shaking him as though he were trying to waken a sleep walker . 
But , my dear brother , I'm not asleep ! Raoul protested impatiently . 
You can see the blood for yourself . 
I thought I had been dreaming and firing at two stars . 
and here is his blood ! . 
After all , perhaps I was wrong to shoot and Christine is quite capable of never forgiving me . 
All this would not have happened if I had drawn the curtains before going to bed . 
Raoul , have you suddenly gone mad ? Wake up ! What , still ? You would do better to help me find Erik . 
for , after all , a ghost who bleeds can always be found . 
The count's valet said That is so , sir there is blood on the balcony . 
The other man servant brought a lamp , by the light of which they examined the balcony carefully . 
The marks of blood followed the rail till they reached a gutter spout then they went up the gutter spout . 
My dear fellow , said Count Philippe , you have fired at a cat . 
The misfortune is , said Raoul , with a grin , that it's quite possible . 
With Erik , you never know . 
The count himself was seized with this idea and , later , the examining magistrate , on receiving the report of the commissary of police , came to the same conclusion . 
Who is Erik ? asked the count , pressing his brother's hand . 
And , if he's not dead , it's a pity . 
He dismissed the servants with a wave of the hand and the two Chagnys were left alone . 
But the men were not out of earshot before the count's valet heard Raoul say , distinctly and emphatically I shall carry off Christine Daae to night . 
This phrase was afterward repeated to M. Faure , the examining magistrate . 
But no one ever knew exactly what passed between the two brothers at this interview . 
The servants declared that this was not their first quarrel . 
Their voices penetrated the wall and it was always an actress called Christine Daae that was in question . 
At breakfast the early morning breakfast , which the count took in his study Philippe sent for his brother . 
Raoul arrived silent and gloomy . 
The scene was a very short one . 
Philippe handed his brother a copy of the Epoque and said Read that ! The viscount read The latest news in the Faubourg is that there is a promise of marriage between Mlle . 
Christine Daae , the opera singer , and M. le Vicomte Raoul de Chagny . 
If the gossips are to be credited , Count Philippe has sworn that , for the first time on record , the Chagnys shall not keep their promise . 
The two brothers are said to adore each other but the count is curiously mistaken if he imagines that brotherly love will triumph over love pure and simple . 
You see , Raoul , said the count , you are making us ridiculous ! That little girl has turned your head with her ghost stories . 
The viscount had evidently repeated Christine's narrative to his brother , during the night . 
All that he now said was Good by , Philippe . 
Have you quite made up your mind ? You are going to night ? With her ? No reply . 
Surely you will not do anything so foolish ? I SHALL know how to prevent you ! Good by , Philippe , said the viscount again and left the room . 
This scene was described to the examining magistrate by the count himself , who did not see Raoul again until that evening , at the Opera , a few minutes before Christine's disappearance . 
Raoul , in fact , devoted the whole day to his preparations for the flight . 
all this had to be settled and provided for and it occupied him until nine o'clock at night . 
At nine o'clock , a sort of traveling barouche with the curtains of its windows close down , took its place in the rank on the Rotunda side . 
It was drawn by two powerful horses driven by a coachman whose face was almost concealed in the long folds of a muffler . 
No one left the barouche . 
The coachman remained on his box , and the three other coachmen remained on theirs . 
I am more inclined to think that the shadow was that of the ghost , who knew all about the whole affair , as the reader will soon perceive . 
They were giving FAUST , as it happened , before a splendid house . 
The feminine element in the brilliant audience seemed curiously puzzled and the viscount's absence gave rise to any amount of whispering behind the fans . 
Christine Daae met with a rather cold reception . 
That special audience could not forgive her for aiming so high . 
The singer noticed this unfavorable attitude of a portion of the house and was confused by it . 
The count sat with his chin on his hand and seemed to pay no attention to these manifestations . 
He kept his eyes fixed on the stage but his thoughts appeared to be far away . 
Christine lost her self assurance more and more . 
She felt on the verge of a breakdown . 
Carolus Fonta wondered if she was ill , if she could keep the stage until the end of the Garden Act . 
Just then , Carlotta made her entrance in a box facing the stage , a sensational entrance . 
Poor Christine raised her eyes upon this fresh subject of excitement . 
She thought she saw a sneer on her lips . 
She forgot everything , in order to triumph once more . 
From that moment the prima donna sang with all her heart and soul . 
She tried to surpass all that she had done till then and she succeeded . 
In the last act when she began the invocation to the angels , she made all the members of the audience feel as though they too had wings . 
In the center of the amphitheater a man stood up and remained standing , facing the singer . 
Holy angel , in Heaven blessed . 
It happened so quickly that the spectators hardly had time to utter a sound of stupefaction , for the gas at once lit up the stage again . 
But Christine Daae was no longer there ! What had become of her ? What was that miracle ? All exchanged glances without understanding , and the excitement at once reached its height . 
Nor was the tension any less great on the stage itself . 
Men rushed from the wings to the spot where Christine had been singing that very instant . 
The performance was interrupted amid the greatest disorder . 
Raoul , still standing up in the amphitheater , had uttered a cry . 
Count Philippe had sprung to his feet in his box . 
People looked at the stage , at the count , at Raoul , and wondered if this curious event was connected in any way with the paragraph in that morning's paper . 
But Raoul hurriedly left his seat , the count disappeared from his box and , while the curtain was lowered , the subscribers rushed to the door that led behind the scenes . 
The rest of the audience waited amid an indescribable hubbub . 
Every one spoke at once . 
Every one tried to suggest an explanation of the extraordinary incident . 
Artists , scene shifters , dancers , supers , choristers , subscribers were all asking questions , shouting and hustling one another . 
What became of her ? She's run away . 
Amid this noisy throng , three men stood talking in a low voice and with despairing gestures . 
They were Gabriel , the chorus master Mercier , the acting manager and Remy , the secretary . 
They retired to a corner of the lobby by which the stage communicates with the wide passage leading to the foyer of the ballet . 
Here they stood and argued behind some enormous properties . 
I knocked at the door , said Remy . 
Perhaps they are not in the office . 
They were not in to anybody . 
I'll go back again , said Remy , and disappeared at a run . 
Thereupon the stage manager arrived . 
Well , M. Mercier , are you coming ? What are you two doing here ? You're wanted , Mr. Acting Manager . 
I refuse to know or to do anything before the commissary arrives , declared Mercier . 
I have sent for Mifroid . 
We shall see when he comes ! And I tell you that you ought to go down to the organ at once . 
Not before the commissary comes . 
I've been down to the organ myself already . 
You're right ! But there might be some one at the organ who could tell us how the stage came to be suddenly darkened . 
Now Mauclair is nowhere to be found . 
Do you understand that ? Mauclair was the gas man , who dispensed day and night at will on the stage of the Opera . 
Mauclair is not to be found ! repeated Mercier , taken aback . 
And what are the managers doing all this time ? . 
I gave orders that no one was to go down to the lights and I posted a fireman in front of the gas man's box beside the organ . 
Wasn't that right ? Yes , yes , quite right , quite right . 
And now let's wait for the commissary . 
The stage manager walked away , shrugging his shoulders , fuming , muttering insults at those milksops who remained quietly squatting in a corner while the whole theater was topsyturvy sic . 
Gabriel and Mercier were not so quiet as all that . 
Only they had received an order that paralyzed them . 
The managers were not to be disturbed on any account . 
Remy had violated that order and met with no success . 
At that moment he returned from his new expedition , wearing a curiously startled air . 
Well , have you seen them ? asked Mercier . 
Moncharmin opened the door at last . 
His eyes were starting out of his head . 
I thought he meant to strike me . 
I should like to have seen you in my place . 
He was foaming at the mouth . 
He thought of nothing but his safety pin . 
I believe , if they hadn't brought him one on the spot , he would have fallen down in a fit ! . 
Oh , all this isn't natural and our managers are going mad ! . 
Besides , it can't go on like this ! I'm not used to being treated in that fashion ! Suddenly Gabriel whispered It's another trick of O. G. 's . 
Rimy gave a grin , Mercier a sigh and seemed about to speak . 
but , meeting Gabriel's eye , said nothing . 
However , Mercier felt his responsibility increased as the minutes passed without the managers' appearing and , at last , he could stand it no longer . 
Look here , I'll go and hunt them out myself ! Gabriel , turning very gloomy and serious , stopped him . 
That's their lookout ! I'm going ! If people had listened to me , the police would have known everything long ago ! And he went . 
What's everything ? asked Remy . 
What was there to tell the police ? Why don't you answer , Gabriel ? . 
Yes , that's what you are mad ! Gabriel put on a stupid look and pretended not to understand the private secretary's unseemly outburst . 
What something' am I supposed to know ? he said . 
I don't know what you mean . 
Remy began to lose his temper . 
This evening , Richard and Moncharmin were behaving like lunatics , here , between the acts . 
I never noticed it , growled Gabriel , very much annoyed . 
Then you're the only one ! . 
Do you think that I didn't see them ? . 
And that M. Parabise , the manager of the Credit Central , noticed nothing ? . 
And that M. de La Borderie , the ambassador , has no eyes to see with ? . 
Why , all the subscribers were pointing at our managers ! But what were our managers doing ? asked Gabriel , putting on his most innocent air . 
What were they doing ? You know better than any one what they were doing ! . 
And you were watching them , you and Mercier ! . 
And you were the only two who didn't laugh . 
I don't understand ! Gabriel raised his arms and dropped them to his sides again , which gesture was meant to convey that the question did not interest him in the least . 
BACKWARD ? And Moncharmin , behind Richard , also turned about that is , he described a semicircle behind Richard and also WALKED BACKWARD ! . 
And they went LIKE THAT to the staircase leading to the managers' office BACKWARD , BACKWARD , BACKWARD ! . 
The secretary was furious at this wretched joke , made at so dramatic a moment . 
He knit his brows and contracted his lips . 
Then he put his mouth to Gabriel's ear Don't be so sly , Gabriel . 
There are things going on for which you and Mercier are partly responsible . 
What do you mean ? asked Gabriel . 
Christine Daae is not the only one who suddenly disappeared to night . 
Oh , nonsense ! There's no nonsense about it . 
You did see it , Gabriel , for you went with Mercier and Mother Giry to Mercier's office . 
Since then , you and Mercier have been seen , but no one has seen Mother Giry . 
There ! he said , in a gloomy voice . 
It's worse than ever ! . 
I shouted , It's a serious matter ! Open the door ! It's I , Mercier . 
The door opened and Moncharmin appeared . 
He said , What do you want ? I answered , Some one has run away with Christine Daae . 
What do you think he said ? And a good job , too ! And he shut the door , after putting this in my hand . 
Mercier opened his hand Remy and Gabriel looked . 
The safety pin ! cried Remy . 
Strange ! Strange ! muttered Gabriel , who could not help shivering . 
Suddenly a voice made them all three turn round . 
I beg your pardon , gentlemen . 
It was the Vicomte Raoul de Chagny . 
Chapter XV Christine ! Christine ! Raoul's first thought , after Christine Daae's fantastic disappearance , was to accuse Erik . 
He no longer doubted the almost supernatural powers of the Angel of Music , in this domain of the Opera in which he had set up his empire . 
And Raoul rushed on the stage , in a mad fit of love and despair . 
Christine ! Christine ! And he seemed to hear the girl's screams through the frail boards that separated him from her . 
He bent forward , he listened , . 
he wandered over the stage like a madman . 
Ah , to descend , to descend into that pit of darkness every entrance to which was closed to him , . 
for the stairs that led below the stage were forbidden to one and all that night ! Christine ! Christine ! . 
People pushed him aside , laughing . 
They made fun of him . 
Why don't you answer ? . 
Hideous thoughts flashed through Raoul's congested brain . 
Of course , Erik must have discovered their secret , must have known that Christine had played him false . 
What a vengeance would be his ! And Raoul thought again of the yellow stars that had come , the night before , and roamed over his balcony . 
Why had he not put them out for good ? There were some men's eyes that dilated in the darkness and shone like stars or like cats' eyes . 
Certainly Albinos , who seemed to have rabbits' eyes by day , had cats' eyes at night everybody knew that ! . 
Yes , yes , he had undoubtedly fired at Erik . 
No doubt Erik was at that time contemplating some decisive step against Raoul , but he had been wounded and had escaped to turn against poor Christine instead . 
Such were the cruel thoughts that haunted Raoul as he ran to the singer's dressing room . 
Christine ! Christine ! Bitter tears scorched the boy's eyelids as he saw scattered over the furniture the clothes which his beautiful bride was to have worn at the hour of their flight . 
He pushed , pressed , groped about , but the glass apparently obeyed no one but Erik . 
Yes , Christine had told him about that . 
And , when he found that the key was no longer in the box , he nevertheless ran to the Rue Scribe . 
Outside , in the street , he passed his trembling hands over the huge stones , felt for outlets . 
Or could it be that air hole ? . 
He plunged his useless eyes through the bars . 
How dark it was in there ! . 
He went round the building . 
and came to bigger bars , immense gates ! . 
It was the entrance to the Cour de I'Administration . 
Raoul rushed into the doorkeeper's lodge . 
I beg your pardon , madame , could you tell me where to find a gate or door , made of bars , iron bars , opening into the Rue Scribe . 
and leading to the lake ? . 
You know the lake I mean ? . 
Yes , the underground lake . 
Yes , sir , I know there is a lake under the Opera , but I don't know which door leads to it . 
He stopped , with his heart thumping in his chest suppose Christine Daae had been found ? He saw a group of men and asked I beg your pardon , gentlemen . 
Could you tell me where Christine Daae is ? And somebody laughed . 
Mercier , the acting manager , called the Vicomte de Chagny's attention to him and said This is the gentleman to whom you should put your question , monsieur . 
Let me introduce Mifroid , the commissary of police . 
Ah , M. le Vicomte de Chagny ! Delighted to meet you , monsieur , said the commissary . 
Would you mind coming with me ? . 
And now where are the managers ? . 
Mercier took advantage of the confusion to slip a key into Gabriel's hand This is all going very badly , he whispered . 
You had better let Mother Giry out . 
They soon came to the managers' door . 
Mercier stormed in vain the door remained closed . 
Open in the name of the law ! commanded M. Mifroid , in a loud and rather anxious voice . 
At last the door was opened . 
All rushed in to the office , on the commissary's heels . 
Raoul was the last to enter . 
Richard and Moncharmin had locked themselves with an object which the reader does not yet know , but which it is my duty , as an historian , to reveal without further postponement . 
The reader must know that the ghost had calmly been paid his first twenty thousand francs . 
Oh , there had been wailing and gnashing of teeth , indeed ! And yet the thing had happened as simply as could be . 
and accompanied by a note from O. G. himself The time has come to carry out the clause in the memorandum book . 
Please put twenty notes of a thousand francs each into this envelope , seal it with your own seal and hand it to Mme . 
Giry , who will do what is necessary . 
Giry , who had been reinstated in her functions . 
The box keeper displayed no astonishment . 
I need hardly say that she was well watched . 
She went straight to the ghost's box and placed the precious envelope on the little shelf attached to the ledge . 
Giry went away while the managers , Gabriel and Mercier were still there . 
At last , they became tired of waiting and opened the envelope , after ascertaining that the seals had not been broken . 
At first sight , Richard and Moncharmin thought that the notes were still there but soon they perceived that they were not the same . 
The twenty real notes were gone and had been replaced by twenty notes , of the Bank of St . 
Farce ! Flash notes drawn on the Bank of St . 
Farce in France correspond with those drawn on the Bank of Engraving in England . 
The managers' rage and fright were unmistakable . 
Moncharmin wanted to send for the commissary of police , but Richard objected . 
He no doubt had a plan , for he said Don't let us make ourselves ridiculous ! All Paris would laugh at us . 
O. G. has won the first game we will win the second . 
He was thinking of the next month's allowance . 
Nevertheless , they had been so absolutely tricked that they were bound to suffer a certain dejection . 
And , upon my word , it was not difficult to understand . 
On the other hand , Moncharmin was sometimes troubled with a suspicion of Richard himself , who occasionally took fanciful whims into his head . 
And so they were content to await events , while keeping an eye on Mother Giry . 
Richard would not have her spoken to . 
If she is a confederate , he said , the notes are gone long ago . 
But , in my opinion , she is merely an idiot . 
She's not the only idiot in this business , said Moncharmin pensively . 
Well , who could have thought it ? moaned Richard . 
next time , I shall have taken my precautions . 
The next time fell on the same day that beheld the disappearance of Christine Daae . 
In the morning , a note from the ghost reminded them that the money was due . 
It read Do just as you did last time . 
Put the twenty thousand in the envelope and hand it to our excellent Mme . 
And the note was accompanied by the usual envelope . 
They had only to insert the notes . 
This was done about half an hour before the curtain rose on the first act of Faust . 
Richard showed the envelope to Moncharmin . 
Then he counted the twenty thousand franc notes in front of him and put the notes into the envelope , but without closing it . 
And now , he said , let's have Mother Giry in . 
The old woman was sent for . 
She entered with a sweeping courtesy . 
She still wore her black taffeta dress , the color of which was rapidly turning to rust and lilac , to say nothing of the dingy bonnet . 
She seemed in a good temper . 
She at once said Good evening , gentlemen ! It's for the envelope , I suppose ? Yes , Mme . 
Giry , said Richard , most amiably . 
At your service , M. Richard , at your service . 
And what is the something else , please ? First of all , Mme . 
Giry , I have a little question to put to you . 
By all means , M. Richard Mme . 
Giry is here to answer you . 
Are you still on good terms with the ghost ? Couldn't be better , sir couldn't be better . 
Ah , we are delighted . 
Giry , said Richard , in the tone of making an important confidence . 
We may just as well tell you , among ourselves . 
The story of the ghost is all humbug , isn't it ? . 
Well , still between ourselves , . 
it has lasted long enough . 
Giry looked at the managers as though they were talking Chinese . 
She walked up to Richard's table and asked , rather anxiously What do you mean ? I don't understand . 
Oh , you , understand quite well . 
In any case , you've got to understand . 
And , first of all , tell us his name . 
Whose name ? The name of the man whose accomplice you are , Mme . 
Giry ! I am the ghost's accomplice ? I ? . 
His accomplice in what , pray ? You do all he wants . 
Oh ! He's not very troublesome , you know . 
And does he still tip you ? I mustn't complain . 
How much does he give you for bringing him that envelope ? Ten francs . 
GIRY' You poor thing ! That's not much , is it ? Why ? I'll tell you that presently , Mme . 
Just now we should like to know for what extraordinary reason you have given yourself body and soul , to this ghost . 
Giry's friendship and devotion are not to be bought for five francs or ten francs . 
And I can tell you the reason , sir . 
There's no disgrace about it . 
We're quite sure of that , Mme . 
Giry ! Well , it's like this . 
only the ghost doesn't like me to talk about his business . 
But this is a matter that concerns myself alone . 
Well , it was in Box Five one evening , I found a letter addressed to myself , a sort of note written in red ink . 
I needn't read the letter to you sir I know it by heart , and I shall never forget it if I live to be a hundred ! And Mme . 
Giry , drawing herself up , recited the letter with touching eloquence MADAM . 
Menetrier , leader of the ballet , became Marquise de Cussy . 
Marie Taglioni , a dancer , became Comtesse Gilbert des Voisins . 
La Sota , a dancer , married a brother of the King of Spain . 
Lola Montes , a dancer , became the morganatic wife of King Louis of Bavaria and was created Countess of Landsfeld . 
Maria , a dancer , became Baronne d'Herneville . 
Theresa Hessier , a dancer , married Dom Fernando , brother to the King of Portugal . 
Meg Giry , Empress ! Exhausted by this supreme effort , the box keeper fell into a chair , saying Gentlemen , the letter was signed , Opera Ghost . 
I had heard much of the ghost , but only half believed in him . 
From the day when he declared that my little Meg , the flesh of my flesh , the fruit of my womb , would be empress , I believed in him altogether . 
And really it was not necessary to make a long study of Mme . 
Giry's excited features to understand what could be got out of that fine intellect with the two words ghost and empress . 
But who pulled the strings of that extraordinary puppet ? That was the question . 
You have never seen him he speaks to you and you believe all he says ? asked Moncharmin . 
To begin with , I owe it to him that my little Meg was promoted to be the leader of a row . 
I said to the ghost , If she is to be empress in , there is no time to lose she must become a leader at once . 
He said , Look upon it as done . 
And he had only a word to say to M. Poligny and the thing was done . 
So you see that M. Poligny saw him ! No , not any more than I did but he heard him . 
The ghost said a word in his ear , you know , on the evening when he left Box Five , looking so dreadfully pale . 
What a business ! he groaned . 
I always thought there were secrets between the ghost and M. Poligny . 
Anything that the ghost asked M. Poligny to do M. Poligny did . 
M. Poligny could refuse the ghost nothing . 
You hear , Richard Poligny could refuse the ghost nothing . 
Yes , yes , I hear ! said Richard . 
M. Poligny is a friend of the ghost and , as Mme . 
Giry is a friend of M. Poligny , there we are ! . 
But I don't care a hang about M. Poligny , he added roughly . 
The only person whose fate really interests me is Mme . 
Giry , do you know what is in this envelope ? Why , of course not , she said . 
Giry looked into the envelope with a lackluster eye , which soon recovered its brilliancy . 
Thousand franc notes ! she cried . 
Giry , thousand franc notes ! And you knew it ! I , sir ? I ? . 
And now I will tell you the second reason why I sent for you . 
Giry , I am going to have you arrested . 
HAVE ME ARRESTED ! The mouth that spoke those words seemed to spit the three teeth that were left to it into Richard's face . 
M. Richard behaved like a hero . 
His threatening forefinger seemed already to be pointing out the keeper of Box Five to the absent magistrates . 
I am going to have you arrested , Mme . 
Giry , as a thief ! Say that again ! And Mme . 
Giry caught Mr. Manager Richard a mighty box on the ear , before Mr. Manager Mencharmin had time to intervene . 
The two managers gave a shout , and the same thought made them both go on their knees , feverishly , picking up and hurriedly examining the precious scraps of paper . 
Are they still genuine , Moncharmin ? Are they still genuine , Richard ? Yes , they are still genuine ! Above their heads , Mme . 
Giry's three teeth were clashing in a noisy contest , full of hideous interjections . 
But all that could be dearly distinguished was this LEIT MOTIF I , a thief ! . 
I , a thief , I ? She choked with rage . 
She shouted I never heard of such a thing ! And , suddenly , she darted up to Richard again . 
In any case , she yelped , you , M. Richard , ought to know better than I where the twenty thousand francs went to ! I ? asked Richard , astounded . 
And how should I know ? Moncharmin , looking severe and dissatisfied , at once insisted that the good lady should explain herself . 
What does this mean , Mme . 
Giry by the wrist and shook it violently . 
Richard would have rushed upon Mme . 
Giry , seeing that it was myself who put the twenty thousand francs into M. Richard's pocket . 
And she added , under her voice , There ! It's out ! . 
And may the ghost forgive me ! Richard began bellowing anew , but Moncharmin authoritatively ordered him to be silent . 
Allow me ! Allow me ! Let the woman explain herself . 
And he added It is really astonishing that you should take up such a tone ! . 
We are on the verge of clearing up the whole mystery . 
And you're in a rage ! . 
You're wrong to behave like that . 
Giry , like the martyr that she was , raised her head , her face beaming with faith in her own innocence . 
You tell me there were twenty thousand francs in the envelope which I put into M. Richard's pocket but I tell you again that I knew nothing about it . 
Nor M. Richard either , for that matter ! Aha ! said Richard , suddenly assuming a swaggering air which Moncharmin did not like . 
I knew nothing either ! You put twenty thousand francs in my pocket and I knew nothing either ! I am very glad to hear it , Mme . 
Giry ! Yes , the terrible dame agreed , yes , it's true . 
We neither of us knew anything . 
But you , you must have ended by finding out ! Richard would certainly have swallowed Mme . 
Giry alive , if Moncharmin had not been there ! But Moncharmin protected her . 
The envelope which M. le Directeur gave me was the one which I slipped into M. le Directeur's pocket , explained Mme . 
The one which I took to the ghost's box was another envelope , just like it , which the ghost gave me beforehand and which I hid up my sleeve . 
Giry took from her sleeve an envelope ready prepared and similarly addressed to that containing the twenty thousand francs . 
The managers took it from her . 
They examined it and saw that it was fastened with seals stamped with their own managerial seal . 
It contained twenty Bank of St . 
Farce notes like those which had so much astounded them the month before . 
How simple ! said Richard . 
How simple ! repeated Moncharmin . 
And he continued with his eyes fixed upon Mme . 
Giry , as though trying to hypnotize her . 
Then would you mind giving us a specimen of your little talents ? Here is the envelope . 
Act as though we knew nothing . 
As you please , gentlemen . 
Giry took the envelope with the twenty notes inside it and made for the door . 
Giry a proceeding likely to strain his sight , but Mon MME . 
GIRY' charmin was prepared to go to any length to discover the truth . 
I am to slip it into your pocket when you least expect it , sir . 
in fact , I come and go as I please . 
The subscribers come and go too . 
So do you , sir . 
There are lots of people about . 
I go behind you and slip the envelope into the tail pocket of your dress coat . 
There's no witchcraft about that ! No witchcraft ! growled Richard , rolling his eyes like Jupiter Tonans . 
No witchcraft ! Why , I've just caught you in a lie , you old witch ! Mme . 
Giry bristled , with her three teeth sticking out of her mouth . 
And why , may I ask ? Because I spent that evening watching Box Five and the sham envelope which you put there . 
I did not go to the ballet foyer for a second . 
No , sir , and I did not give you the envelope that evening , but at the next performance . 
on the evening when the under secretary of state for fine arts . 
At these words , M. Richard suddenly interrupted Mme . 
Giry Yes , that's true , I remember now ! The under secretary went behind the scenes . 
I went down to the ballet foyer for a moment . 
I was on the foyer steps . 
The under secretary and his chief clerk were in the foyer itself . 
you had passed behind me , Mme . 
You seemed to push against me . 
Oh , I can see you still , I can see you still ! Yes , that's it , sir , that's it . 
I had just finished my little business . 
That pocket of yours , sir , is very handy ! And Mme . 
Of course ! exclaimed Richard , looking a little pale . 
It's wonderful ! Oh , wonderful , no doubt ! Moncharmin agreed . 
This brings us to the interval after the Garden Act , with the strange conduct observed by M. Remy and those curious lapses from the dignity that might be expected of the managers . 
Giry was to slip the twenty thousand francs . 
M. Richard went and placed himself at the identical spot where he had stood when he bowed to the under secretary for fine arts . 
M. Moncharmin took up his position a few steps behind him . 
Giry passed , rubbed up against M. Richard , got rid of her twenty thousand francs in the manager's coat tail pocket and disappeared . 
Or rather she was conjured away . 
to nobody bent his back . 
before nobody and walked backward . 
Moncharmin , who had his own ideas , did not want Richard to come to him presently , when the twenty thousand francs were gone , and say Perhaps it was the ambassador . 
or the manager of the Credit Central . 
The more so as , at the time of the first scene , as Richard himself admitted , Richard had met nobody in that part of the theater after Mme . 
Giry had brushed up against him . 
Having begun by walking backward in order to bow , Richard continued to do so from prudence , until he reached the passage leading to the offices of the management . 
In this way , he was constantly watched by Moncharmin from behind and himself kept an eye on any one approaching from the front . 
On reaching the half dark passage , Richard said to Moncharmin , in a low voice I am sure that nobody has touched me . 
Then what we are doing is absurd ! We are doing exactly what we did last time . 
Last time , I joined you as you were leaving the stage and followed close behind you down this passage . 
That's true ! sighed Richard , shaking his head and passively obeying Moncharmin . 
Two minutes later , the joint managers locked themselves into their office . 
Moncharmin himself put the key in his pocket We remained locked up like this , last time , he said , until you left the Opera to go home . 
No one came and disturbed us , I suppose ? No one . 
Then , said Richard , who was trying to collect his memory , then I must certainly have been robbed on my way home from the Opera . 
No , said Moncharmin in a drier tone than ever , no , that's impossible . 
For I dropped you in my cab . 
The twenty thousand francs disappeared at your place there's not a shadow of a doubt about that . 
It's incredible ! protested Richard . 
I am sure of my servants . 
and if one of them had done it , he would have disappeared since . 
Moncharmin , I've had enough of this ! Richard , I've had too much of it ! Do you dare to suspect me ? Yes , of a silly joke . 
One doesn't joke with twenty thousand francs . 
That's what I think , declared Mohcharmin , unfolding a newspaper and ostentatiously studying its contents . 
What are you doing ? asked Richard . 
Are you going to read the paper next ? Yes , Richard , until I take you home . 
Like last time ? Yes , like last time . 
Richard snatched the paper from Moncharmint's hands . 
And what might you think ? asked Moncharmin , crimson with rage . 
A safety pin ! What do you want a safety pin for ? To fasten you up with ! . 
And what happened was this Moncharmin first locked the door again . 
Then he knelt down behind Richard's back . 
I hope , he said , that the notes are still there ? So do I , said Richard . 
The real ones ? asked Moncharmin , resolved not to be had this time . 
Look for yourself , said Richard . 
I refuse to touch them . 
He felt reassured on finding that they were all there and quite genuine . 
He put them back in the tail pocket and pinned them with great care . 
Then he sat down behind Richard's coat tails and kept his eyes fixed on them , while Richard , sitting at his writing table , did not stir . 
A little patience , Richard , said Moncharmin . 
We have only a few minutes to wait . 
The clock will soon strike twelve . 
Last time , we left at the last stroke of twelve . 
Oh , I shall have all the patience necessary ! The time passed , slow , heavy , mysterious , stifling . 
I shall end by believing in the omnipotence of the ghost , he said . 
Just now , don't you find something uncomfortable , disquieting , alarming in the atmosphere of this room ? You're quite right , said Moncharmin , who was really impressed . 
The ghost ! continued Richard , in a low voice , as though fearing lest he should be overheard by invisible ears . 
The ghost ! Suppose , all the same , it were a ghost who puts the magic envelopes on the table . 
who talks in Box Five . 
At that moment , the clock on the mantlepiece gave its warning click and the first stroke of twelve struck . 
The perspiration streamed from their foreheads . 
The twelfth stroke sounded strangely in their ears . 
When the clock stopped , they gave a sigh and rose from their chairs . 
I think we can go now , said Moncharmin . 
I think so , Richard a agreed . 
Before we go , do you mind if I look in your pocket ? But , of course , Moncharmin , YOU MUST ! . 
Well ? he asked , as Moncharmin was feeling at the pocket . 
Well , I can feel the pin . 
Of course , as you said , we can't be robbed without noticing it . 
But Moncharmin , whose hands were still fumbling , bellowed I can feel the pin , but I can't feel the notes ! Come , no joking , Moncharmin ! . 
This isn't the time for it . 
Well , feel for yourseIf . 
Richard tore off his coat . 
The two managers turned the pocket inside out . 
And the curious thing was that the pin remained , stuck in the same place . 
Richard and Moncharmin turned pale . 
There was no longer any doubt about the witchcraft . 
The ghost ! muttered Moncharmin . 
But Richard suddenly sprang upon his partner . 
No one but you has touched my pocket ! Give me back my twenty thousand francs ! . 
Give me back my twenty thousand francs ! . 
On my soul , sighed Moncharmin , who was ready to swoon , on my soul , I swear that I haven't got it ! Then somebody knocked at the door . 
Chapter XVIII The Commissary , The Viscount and the Persian The first words of the commissary of police , on entering the managers' office , were to ask after the missing prima donna . 
Is Christine Daae here ? Christine Daae here ? echoed Richard . 
No. Why ? As for Moncharmin , he had not the strength left to utter a word . 
Richard repeated , for the commissary and the compact crowd which had followed him into the office observed an impressive silence . 
Why do you ask if Christine Daae is here , M. LE COMMISSAIRE ? Because she has to be found , , declared the commissary of police solemnly . 
so she disappeared in the middle of the performance ? he repeated . 
And I am sure that she was ! Everybody looked round . 
A young man , pale and trembling with excitement , repeated I am sure of it ! Sure of what ? asked Mifroid . 
That Christine Daae' was carried off by an angel , M. LE COMMISSAIRE and I can tell you his name . 
You are right , monsieur . 
And the commissary of police , inviting Raoul to take a chair , cleared the room of all the rest , excepting the managers . 
Oh , said the viscount , those gentlemen have heard of the Opera ghost . 
Well , I am in a position to state that the Opera ghost and the Angel of Music are one and the same person and his real name is Erik . 
M. Mifroid rose and looked at Raoul attentively . 
Gentlemen , it appears that you know the Opera ghost ? Richard rose , with the remaining hairs of his mustache in his hand . 
He passed his hand through his hair . 
The singer first , the twenty thousand francs after . 
Come , M. de Chagny , let us try to talk seriously . 
Christine Daae has been carried off by an individual called Erik . 
Do you know this person ? Have you seen him ? Yes . 
Where ? In a church yard . 
M. Mifroid gave a start , began to scrutinize Raoul again and said Of course ! . 
That's where ghosts usually hang out ! . 
And what were you doing in that churchyard ? Monsieur , said Raoul , I can quite understand how absurd my replies must seem to you . 
But I beg you to believe that I am in full possession of my faculties . 
The safety of the person dearest to me in the world is at stake . 
I should like to convince you in a few words , for time is pressing and every minute is valuable . 
Unfortunately , if I do not tell you the strangest story that ever was from the beginning , you will not believe me . 
I will tell you all I know about the Opera ghost , M. Commissary . 
Alas , I do not know much ! . 
Never mind , go on , go on ! exclaimed Richard and Moncharmin , suddenly greatly interested . 
All that story about Perros Guirec , death's heads and enchanted violins , could only have taken birth in the disordered brain of a youth mad with love . 
The door opened and a man entered , curiously dressed in an enormous frock coat and a tall hat , at once shabby and shiny , that came down to his ears . 
He went up to the commissary and spoke to him in a whisper . 
It was doubtless a detective come to deliver an important communication . 
During this conversation , M. Mifroid did not take his eyes off Raoul . 
At last , addressing him , he said Monsieur , we have talked enough about the ghost . 
We will now talk about yourself a little , if you have no objection you were to carry off Mlle . 
Christine Daae to night ? Yes , M. le Commissaire . 
After the performance ? Yes , M. le Commissaire . 
All your arrangements were made ? Yes , M. le Commissaire . 
The carriage that brought you was to take you both away . 
There were fresh horses in readiness at every stage . 
That is true , M. le Commissaire . 
And nevertheless your carriage is still outside the Rotunda awaiting your orders , is it not ? Yes , M. le Commissaire . 
Did you know that there were three other carriages there , in addition to yours ? I did not pay the least attention . 
They were the carriages of Mlle . 
Sorelli , which could not find room in the Cour de l'Administration of Carlotta and of your brother , M. le Comte de Chagny . 
What is certain is that , though your carriage and Sorelli's and Carlotta's are still there , by the Rotunda pavement , M. le Comte de Chagny's carriage is gone . 
This has nothing to say to . 
Was not M. le Comte opposed to your marriage with Mlle . 
Daae ? That is a matter that only concerns the family . 
You have answered my question he was opposed to it . 
and that was why you were carrying Christine Daae out of your brother's reach . 
Across Paris ? asked poor Raoul , in a hoarse voice . 
What do you mean by across Paris ? Across Paris and out of Paris . 
Oh , cried the young man , I shall catch them ! And he rushed out of the office . 
And bring her back to us ! cried the commisary gaily . 
Ah , that's a trick worth two of the Angel of Music's ! And , turning to his audience , M. Mifroid delivered a little lecture on police methods . 
I don't know for a moment whether M. le Comte de Chagny has really carried Christine Daae off or not . 
but I want to know and I believe that , at this moment , no one is more anxious to inform us than his brother . 
A tall figure blocked Raoul's way . 
Where are you going so fast , M. de Chagny ? asked a voice . 
Raoul impatiently raised his eyes and recognized the astrakhan cap of an hour ago . 
He stopped It's you ! he cried , in a feverish voice . 
You , who know Erik's secrets and don't want me to speak of them . 
Who are you ? You know who I am ! . 
The man with the ebony skin , the eyes of jade and the astrakhan cap bent over Raoul . 
Then , sir , stay here , for Christine Daae is here ! With Erik ? With Erik . 
How do you know ? I was at the performance and no one in the world but Erik could contrive an abduction like that ! . 
Oh , he said , with a deep sigh , I recognized the monster's touch ! . 
You know him then ? The Persian did not reply , but heaved a fresh sigh . 
What can you do ? Try to take you to her . 
If you can do me that service , sir , my life is yours ! . 
One word more the commissary of police tells me that Christine Daae has been carried off by my brother , Count Philippe . 
Oh , M. de Chagny , I don't believe a word of it . 
Your arguments are convincing , sir , and I am a fool ! . 
Oh , let us make haste ! I place myself entirely in your hands ! . 
How should I not believe you , when you are the only one to believe me . 
when you are the only one not to smile when Erik's name is mentioned ? And the young man impetuously seized the Persian's hands . 
Silence ! said the Persian , stopping and listening to the distant sounds of the theater . 
We must not mention that name here . 
Let us say he' and him then there will be less danger of attracting his attention . 
Ah , so you know that house too ? If he is not there , he may be here , in this wall , in this floor , in this ceiling ! . 
If only Darius has come ! said the Persian . 
Who is Darius ? Darius ? My servant . 
They were now in the center of a real deserted square , an immense apartment ill lit by a small lamp . 
And did he believe you ? No. He attached no importance to what you said ? No. He took you for a bit of a madman ? Yes . 
So much the better ! sighed the Persian . 
And they continued their road . 
After going up and down several staircases which Raoul had never seen before , the two men found themselves in front of a door which the Persian opened with a master key . 
The Persian and Raoul were both , of course , in dress clothes but , whereas Raoul had a tall hat , the Persian wore the astrakhan cap which I have already mentioned . 
Sir , said the Persian , your tall hat will be in your way you would do well to leave it in the dressing room . 
What dressing room ? asked Raoul . 
And the Persian , letting Raoul through the door which he had just opened , showed him the actress' room opposite . 
They were at the end of the passage the whole length of which Raoul had been accustomed to traverse before knocking at Christine's door . 
How well you know the Opera , sir ! Not so well as he' does ! said the Persian modestly . 
And he pushed the young man into Christine's dressing room , which was as Raoul had left it a few minutes earlier . 
Closing the door , the Persian went to a very thin partition that separated the dressing room from a big lumber room next to it . 
He listened and then coughed loudly . 
There was a sound of some one stirring in the lumber room and , a few seconds later , a finger tapped at the door . 
Come in , said the Persian . 
A man entered , also wearing an astrakhan cap and dressed in a long overcoat . 
He bowed and took a richly carved case from under his coat , put it on the dressing table , bowed once again and went to the door . 
Did no one see you come in , Darius ? No , master . 
Let no one see you go out . 
The servant glanced down the passage and swiftly disappeared . 
The Persian opened the case . 
It contained a pair of long pistols . 
When Christine Daae was carried off , sir , I sent word to my servant to bring me these pistols . 
I have had them a long time and they can be relied upon . 
Do you mean to fight a duel ? asked the young man . 
It will certainly be a duel which we shall have to fight , said the other , examining the priming of his pistols . 
If I hated him , he would long ago have ceased doing harm . 
Has he done you harm ? I have forgiven him the harm which he has done me . 
I do not understand you . 
He fetched a stool and set it against the wall facing the great mirror that filled the whole of the wall space opposite . 
Then he climbed on the stool and , with his nose to the wallpaper , seemed to be looking for something . 
No , it is not yielding yet , he muttered . 
Oh , are we going out by the mirror ? asked Raoul . 
Or some new fancy of the ghost's ! chuckled the Persian . 
Put down your hat , please . 
and now cover your shirt front as much as you can with your coat . 
We must make ourselves as invisible as possible . 
Bearing against the mirror , after a short silence , he said It takes some time to release the counterbalance , when you press on the spring from the inside of the room . 
It is different when you are behind the wall and can act directly on the counterbalance . 
Then the mirror turns at once and is moved with incredible rapidity . 
What counterbalance ? asked Raoul . 
Why , the counterbalance that lifts the whole of this wall on to its pivot . 
It will then be on a pivot and will swing round . 
It's not turning ! said Raoul impatiently . 
Oh , wait ! You have time enough to be impatient , sir ! The mechanism has obviously become rusty , or else the spring isn't working . 
Unless it is something else , added the Persian , anxiously . 
What ? He may simply have cut the cord of the counterbalance and blocked the whole apparatus . 
Why should he ? He does not know that we are coming this way ! I dare say he suspects it , for he knows that I understand the system . 
And Christine , sir , Christine ? The Persian said coldly We shall do all that it is humanly possible to do ! . 
But he may stop us at the first step ! . 
He commands the walls , the doors and the trapdoors . 
In my country , he was known by a name which means the trap door lover . 
There was a sort of shivering reflection . 
Their image was troubled as in a rippling sheet of water and then all became stationary again . 
And now , look out ! And be ready to fire . 
He himself raised his pistol opposite the glass . 
Chapter XX In the Cellars of the Opera Your hand high , ready to fire ! repeated Raoul's companion quickly . 
The wall , behind them , having completed the circle which it described upon itself , closed again and the two men stood motionless for a moment , holding their breath . 
At last , the Persian decided to make a movement and Raoul heard him slip on his knees and feel for something in the dark with his groping hands . 
Suddenly , the darkness was made visible by a small dark lantern and Raoul instinctively stepped backward as though to escape the scrutiny of a secret enemy . 
But he soon perceived that the light belonged to the Persian , whose movements he was closely observing . 
The little red disk was turned in every direction and Raoul saw that the floor , the walls and the ceiling were all formed of planking . 
It must have been the ordinary road taken by Erik to reach Christine's dressing room and impose upon her innocence . 
And Raoul , remembering the Persian's remark , thought that it had been mysteriously constructed by the ghost himself . 
The Persian went on his knees and put his lantern on the ground . 
He seemed to be working at the floor and suddenly he turned off his light . 
Then Raoul heard a faint click and saw a very pale luminous square in the floor of the passage . 
It was as though a window had opened on the Opera cellars , which were still lit . 
Raoul no longer saw the Persian , but he suddenly felt him by his side and heard him whisper Follow me and do all that I do . 
Raoul turned to the luminous aperture . 
Curiously enough , the viscount had absolute confidence in the Persian , though he knew nothing about him . 
Besides , Raoul must reach Christine at all costs . 
He therefore went on his knees also and hung from the trap with both hands . 
Let go ! said a voice . 
And he dropped into the arms of the Persian , who told him to lie down flat , closed the trap door above him and crouched down beside him . 
Raoul tried to ask a question , but the Persian's hand was on his mouth and he heard a voice which he recognized as that of the commissary of police . 
Raoul and the Persian were completely hidden behind a wooden partition . 
Near them , a small staircase led to a little room in which the commissary appeared to be walking up and down , asking questions . 
The faint light was just enough to enable Raoul to distinguish the shape of things around him . 
And he could not restrain a dull cry there were three corpses there . 
The first lay on the narrow landing of the little staircase the two others had rolled to the bottom of the staircase . 
Raoul could have touched one of the two poor wretches by passing his fingers through the partition . 
Silence ! whispered the Persian . 
He too had seen the bodies and he gave one word in explanation HE ! The commissary's voice was now heard more distinctly . 
He was asking for information about the system of lighting , which the stage manager supplied . 
The commissary therefore must be in the organ or its immediate neighborhood . 
Contrary to what one might think , especially in connection with an opera house , the organ is not a musical instrument . 
At that time , electricity was employed only for a very few scenic effects and for the bells . 
A box beside the prompter's box was reserved for the chief gas man , who from there gave his orders to his assistants and saw that they were executed . 
Mauclair stayed in this box during all the performances . 
But now Mauclair was not in his box and his assistants not in their places . 
Mauclair ! Mauclair ! The stage manager's voice echoed through the cellars . 
But Mauclair did not reply . 
I have said that a door opened on a little staircase that led to the second cellar . 
The commissary pushed it , but it resisted . 
I say , he said to the stage manager , I can't open this door is it always so difficult ? The stage manager forced it open with his shoulder . 
No , he said , he is dead drunk , which is not quite the same thing . 
It's the first time , if so , said the stage manager Then some one has given him a narcotic . 
Mifroid went down a few steps and said Look ! By the light of a little red lantern , at the foot of the stairs , they saw two other bodies . 
The stage manager recognized Mauclair's assistants . 
Mifroid went down and listened to their breathing . 
They are sound asleep , he said . 
Very curious business ! Some person unknown must have interfered with the gas man and his staff . 
and that person unknown was obviously working on behalf of the kidnapper . 
But what a funny idea to kidnap a performer on the stage ! . 
Send for the doctor of the theater , please . 
What do you say to all this , gentlemen ? You are the only ones who have not given your views . 
And yet you must have an opinion of some sort . 
And the two faces disappeared . 
Thank you for the information , gentlemen , said Mifroid , with a jeer . 
I remember finding him , one evening , snoring in his little recess , with his snuff box beside him . 
Is that long ago ? asked M. Mifroid , carefully wiping his eye glasses . 
No , not so very long ago . 
So Mauclair takes snuff , does he ? he asked carelessly . 
Look , there is his snuff box on that little shelf . 
Oh ! he's a great snuff taker ! So am I , said Mifroid and put the snuff box in his pocket . 
Their steps were heard for a few minutes on the stage above . 
When they were alone the Persian made a sign to Raoul to stand up . 
But it tires the hand unnecessarily , whispered Raoul . 
If I do fire , I shan't be sure of my aim . 
Then shift your pistol to the other hand , said the Persian . 
I can't shoot with my left hand . 
It is a matter of life and death . 
And now , silence and follow me ! The cellars of the Opera are enormous and they are five in number . 
Raoul followed the Persian and wondered what he would have done without his companion in that extraordinary labyrinth . 
They went down to the third cellar and their progress was still lit by some distant lamp . 
The lower they went , the more precautions the Persian seemed to take . 
Suddenly , a loud voice made them stop . 
Some one above them shouted All the door shutters on the stage ! The commissary of police wants them ! Steps were heard and shadows glided through the darkness . 
The Persian drew Raoul behind a set piece . 
They saw passing before and above them old men bent by age and the past burden of opera scenery . 
Some could hardly drag themselves along others , from habit , with stooping bodies and outstretched hands , looked for doors to shut . 
Drafts are very bad for the voice , wherever they may come from . 
M. Pedro Gailhard has himself told me that he created a few additional posts as door shutters for old stage carpenters whom he was unwilling to dismiss from the service of the Opera . 
The two men might have stumbled over them , waking them up and provoking a request for explanations . 
For the moment , M. Mifroid's inquiry saved them from any such unpleasant encounters . 
But they were not left to enjoy their solitude for long . 
Other shades now came down by the same way by which the door shutters had gone up . 
Each of these shades carried a little lantern and moved it about , above , below and all around , as though looking for something or somebody . 
Hang it ! muttered the Persian . 
I don't know what they are looking for , but they might easily find us . 
Let us get away , quick ! . 
Your hand up , sir , ready to fire ! . 
Hand at the level of your eye , as though you were fighting a duel and waiting for the word to fire ! Oh , leave your pistol in your pocket . 
Quick , come along , down stairs . 
Level of your eye ! Question of life or death ! . 
Here , this way , these stairs ! They reached the fifth cellar . 
Oh , what a duel , sir , what a duel ! Once in the fifth cellar , the Persian drew breath . 
He seemed to enjoy a rather greater sense of security than he had displayed when they both stopped in the third but he never altered the attitude of his hand . 
Telling Raoul to stay where he was , he ran up a few steps of the staircase which they had just left and then returned . 
How stupid of us ! he whispered . 
We shall soon have seen the end of those men with their lanterns . 
It is the firemen going their rounds . 
In those days , it was still part of the firemen's duty to watch over the safety of the Opera house outside the performances but this service has since been suppressed . 
Then the Persian took Raoul up the stairs again but suddenly he stopped him with a gesture . 
Something moved in the darkness before them . 
Flat on your stomach ! whispered the Persian . 
The two men lay flat on the floor . 
They were only just in time . 
A shade , this time carrying no light , just a shade in the shade , passed . 
It passed close to them , near enough to touch them . 
They felt the warmth of its cloak upon them . 
For they could distinguish the shade sufficiently to see that it wore a cloak which shrouded it from head to foot . 
On its head it had a soft felt hat . 
It moved away , drawing its feet against the walls and sometimes giving a kick into a corner . 
Whew ! said the Persian . 
We've had a narrow escape that shade knows me and has twice taken me to the managers' office . 
Is it some one belonging to the theater police ? asked Raoul . 
It's some one much worse than that ! replied the Persian , without giving any further explanation . 
Like the Persian , I can give no further explanation touching the apparition of this shade . 
I am speaking of state services and , upon my word of honor , I can say no more . 
If he does not come behind us , we shall always see his yellow eyes ! That is more or less our safeguard to night . 
a whole fiery face , not only two yellow eyes ! Yes , a head of fire came toward them , at a man's height , but with no body attached to it . 
The face shed fire , looked in the darkness like a flame shaped as a man's face . 
Oh , said the Persian , between his teeth . 
I have never seen this before ! . 
Pampin was not mad , after all he had seen it ! . 
What can that flame be ? It is not HE , but he may have sent it ! . 
Take care ! Your hand at the level of your eyes , in Heaven's name , at the level of your eyes ! . 
know most of his tricks . 
Come , let us run . 
Hand at the level of your eyes ! And they fled down the long passage that opened before them . 
After a few seconds , that seemed to them like long minutes , they stopped . 
He doesn't often come this way , said the Persian . 
This side has nothing to do with him . 
This side does not lead to the lake nor to the house on the lake . 
But perhaps he knows that we are at his heels . 
And it must have run also , and perhaps faster than they , for it seemed to be nearer to them . 
At the same time , they began to perceive a certain noise of which they could not guess the nature . 
They simply noticed that the sound seemed to move and to approach with the fiery face . 
They continued to retreat , but the fiery face came on , came on , gaining on them . 
They could see its features clearly now . 
And the fiery face came on . 
came level with them ! . 
And the two companions , flat against their wall , felt their hair stand on end with horror , for they now knew what the thousand noises meant . 
And the little waves passed between their legs , climbing up their legs , irresistibly , and Raoul and the Persian could no longer restrain their cries of horror , dismay and pain . 
Yes , Raoul and the Persian were ready to faint , like Pampin the fireman . 
But the head of fire turned round in answcr to their cries , and spoke to them Don't move ! Don't move ! . 
Whatever you do , don't come after me ! . 
I am the rat catcher ! . 
Let me pass , with my rats ! . 
And he jumped along , dragging with him the waves of scratching rats , all the thousand sounds . 
Raoul and the Persian breathed again , though still trembling . 
I ought to have remembered that Erik talked to me about the rat catcher , said the Persian . 
But he never told me that he looked like that . 
and it's funny that I should never have met him before . 
Of course , Erik never comes to this part ! two page color illustration Are we very far from the lake , sir ? asked Raoul . 
When shall we get there ? . 
Take me to the lake , oh , take me to the lake ! . 
When we are at the lake , we will call out ! . 
Christine will hear us ! . 
And HE will hear us , too ! . 
And , as you know him , we shall talk to him ! Baby ! said the Persian . 
We shall never enter the house on the lake by the lake ! . 
I myself have never landed on the other bank . 
the bank on which the house stands . 
You have to cross the lake first . 
and it is well guarded ! . 
I fear that more than one of those men old scene shifters , old door shutters who have never been seen again were simply tempted to cross the lake . 
I myself would have been nearly killed there . 
if the monster had not recognized me in time ! . 
One piece of advice , sir never go near the lake . 
If you can do nothing for Christine , at least let me die for her ! The Persian tried to calm the young man . 
We have only one means of saving Christine Daae , believe me , which is to enter the house unperceived by the monster . 
We will go back there now . 
Come , sir , take courage and follow me ! And hold your hand at the level of your eyes ! . 
But where are we ? The Persian lit his lamp again and flung its rays down two enormous corridors that crossed each other at right angles . 
We must be , he said , in the part used more particularly for the waterworks . 
I see no fire coming from the furnaces . 
He went in front of Raoul , seeking his road , stopping abruptly when he was afraid of meeting some waterman . 
In this way , they gradually arrived beneath the huge cellars below the stage . 
All the water had to be exhausted , in the building of the Opera . 
And nevertheless the engineers had to leave a lake . 
The Persian touched a partition wall and said If I am not mistaken , this is a wall that might easily belong to the house on the lake . 
The work of constructing this double case took a whole year . 
It was the wall of the first inner case that the Persian struck when speaking to Raoul of the house on the lake . 
At the Persian's words , Raoul flung himself against the wall and listened eagerly . 
except distant steps sounding on the floor of the upper portions of the theater . 
The Persian darkened his lantern again . 
Look out ! he said . 
Keep your hand up ! And silence ! For we shall try another way of getting in . 
And he led him to the little staircase by which they had come down lately . 
They went up , stopping at each step , peering into the darkness and the silence , till they came to the third cellar . 
Against this wall stood a large discarded scene from the ROI DE LAHORE . 
Close to this scene was a set piece . 
Between the scene and the set piece there was just room for a body . 
for a body which one day was found hanging there . 
The body of Joseph Buquet . 
The Persian , still kneeling , stopped and listened . 
This glimmer seemed to trouble the Persian . 
At last , he tossed his head and made up his mind to act . 
He slipped between the set piece and the scene from the ROI DE LAHORE , with Raoul close upon his heels . 
With his free hand , the Persian felt the wall . 
Raoul saw him bear heavily upon the wall , just as he had pressed against the wall in Christine's dressing room . 
Then a stone gave way , leaving a hole in the wall . 
This time , the Persian took his pistol from his pocket and made a sign to Raoul to do as he did . 
And , resolutely , still on his knees , he wiggled through the hole in the wall . 
Raoul , who had wished to pass first , had to be content to follow him . 
The hole was very narrow . 
The Persian stopped almost at once . 
Raoul heard him feeling the stones around him . 
Then the Persian took out his dark lantern again , stooped forward , examined something beneath him and immediately extinguished his lantern . 
Raoul heard him say , in a whisper We shall have to drop a few yards , without making a noise take off your boots . 
The Persian handed his own shoes to Raoul . 
Put them outside the wall , he said . 
We shall find them there when we leave . 
They must have been taken by some stage carpenter or door shutter . 
You must do exactly the same . 
I will catch you in my arms . 
Raoul soon heard a dull sound , evidently produced by the fall of the Persian , and then dropped down . 
He felt himself clasped in the Persian's arms . 
Hush ! said the Persian . 
And they stood motionless , listening . 
The darkness was thick around them , the silence heavy and terrible . 
The stone has closed of itself ! And the light of the lantern swept down the wall and over the floor . 
The Persian stooped and picked up something , a sort of cord , which he examined for a second and flung away with horror . 
The Punjab lasso ! he muttered . 
What is it ? asked Raoul . 
It might very well be the rope by which the man was hanged , and which was looked for so long . 
And , suddenly seized with fresh anxiety , he moved the little red disk of his lantern over the walls . 
Because of the smallness of the luminous disk , it was difficult at first to make out the appearance of things they saw a corner of a branch . 
and , next to it , nothing at all , nothing but the ray of light that seemed to reflect itself . 
Raoul passed his hand over that nothing , over that reflection . 
The wall is a looking glass ! Yes , a looking glass ! said the Persian , in a tone of deep emotion . 
Chapter XXI Interesting and Instructive Vicissitudes of a Persian in the Cellars of the Opera THE PERSIAN'S NARRATIVE It was the first time that I entered the house on the lake . 
I had often begged the trap door lover , as we used to call Erik in my country , to open its mysterious doors to me . 
I made very many attempts , but in vain , to obtain admittance . 
One day , when I thought myself alone , I stepped into the boat and rowed toward that part of the wall through which I had seen Erik disappear . 
It was then that I came into contact with the siren who guarded the approach and whose charm was very nearly fatal to me . 
I had no sooner put off from the bank than the silence amid which I floated on the water was disturbed by a sort of whispered singing that hovered all around me . 
It was half breath , half music it rose softly from the waters of the lake and I was surrounded by it through I knew not what artifice . 
It followed me , moved with me and was so soft that it did not alarm me . 
By this time , I was alone in the boat in the middle of the lake the voice for it was now distinctly a voice was beside me , on the water . 
I leaned over , leaned still farther . 
Suddenly , two monstrous arms issued from the bosom of the waters and seized me by the neck , dragging me down to the depths with irresistible force . 
I should certainly have been lost , if I had not had time to give a cry by which Erik knew me . 
He spoke , but I had now no other wish than to know what I already called the trick of the siren . 
He laughed and showed me a long reed . 
It's the silliest trick you ever saw , he said , but it's very useful for breathing and singing in the water . 
I learned it from the Tonkin pirates , who are able to remain hidden for hours in the beds of the rivers . 
I spoke to him severely . 
It's a trick that nearly killed me ! I said . 
Wretched man ! I cried . 
Have you forgotten the rosy hours of Mazenderan ? Yes , he replied , in a sadder tone , I prefer to forget them . 
I used to make the little sultana laugh , though ! All that belongs to the past , I declared but there is the present . 
and you are responsible to me for the present , because , if I had wished , there would have been none at all for you . 
You know I never keep my oaths . 
Oaths are made to catch gulls with . 
you can tell me , at any rate . 
Well ? Well , the chandelier . 
the chandelier , Erik ? . 
What about the chandelier ? You know what I mean . 
Oh , he sniggered , I don't mind telling you about the chandelier ! . 
The chandelier was very old and worn . 
When Erik laughed , he was more terrible than ever . 
He jumped into the boat , chuckling so horribly that I could not help trembling . 
Very old and worn , my dear daroga ! Very old and worn , the chandelier ! . 
It fell of itself ! . 
It came down with a smash ! . 
And now , daroga , take my advice and go and dry yourself , or you'll catch a cold in the head ! . 
And never get into my boat again . 
And , whatever you do , don't try to enter my house I'm not always there . 
daroga ! And I should be sorry to have to dedicate my Requiem Mass to you ! DAROGA is Persian for chief of police . 
So saying , swinging to and fro , like a monkey , and still chuckling , he pushed off and soon disappeared in the darkness of the lake . 
From that day , I gave up all thought of penetrating into his house by the lake . 
That entrance was obviously too well guarded , especially since he had learned that I knew about it . 
His conduct , throughout this business , proves it and is above all praise . 
On the other hand , I soon discovered the curious moral traffic established between the monster and Christine Daae . 
A white horse , the horse out of the PROFETA , which had disappeared from the stables under the Opera , was standing quietly beside them . 
I saw sparks fly from those yellow eyes and , before I had time to say a word , I received a blow on the head that stunned me . 
When I came to myself , Erik , Christine and the white horse had disappeared . 
I felt sure that the poor girl was a prisoner in the house on the lake . 
Without hesitation , I resolved to return to the bank , notwithstanding the attendant danger . 
For twenty four hours , I lay in wait for the monster to appear for I felt that he must go out , driven by the need of obtaining provisions . 
This did not quite take away his corpse like air , but it made him almost , I say almost , endurable to look at . 
Erik jumped out and walked up to me You've been here for twenty four hours , he said , and you're annoying me . 
I tell you , all this will end very badly . 
And you will have brought it upon yourself for I have been extraordinarily patient with you . 
You think you are following me , you great booby , whereas it's I who am following you and I know all that you know about me , here . 
and they will end by knowing that you are after Erik . 
and then they will be after Erik themselves and they will discover the house on the lake . 
If they do , it will be a bad lookout for you , old chap , a bad lookout ! . 
I won't answer for anything . 
Again he puffed and blew like a walrus . 
I won't answer for anything ! . 
except that you don't know how to take a hint . 
He had sat down on the stern of his boat and was kicking his heels against the planks , waiting to hear what I had to answer . 
I simply said It's not Erik that I'm after here ! Who then ? You know as well as I do it's Christine Daae , I answered . 
He retorted I have every right to see her in my own house . 
I am loved for my own sake . 
That's not true , I said . 
You have carried her off and are keeping her locked up . 
Well , then , it's quite simple . 
Christine Daae shall leave this as she pleases and come back again ! . 
Yes , come back again , because she wishes . 
come back of herself , because she loves me for myself ! . 
Oh , I doubt if she will come back ! . 
But it is your duty to let her go . 
My duty , you great booby ! . 
my wish to let her go and she will come back again . 
for she loves me ! . 
All this will end in a marriage . 
a marriage at the Madeleine , you great booby ! Do you believe me now ? When I tell you that my nuptial mass is written . 
wait till you hear the KYRIE . 
He beat time with his heels on the planks of the boat and sang KYRIE ! . 
Wait till you hear , wait till you hear that mass . 
Look here , I said . 
I shall believe you if I see Christine Daae come out of the house on the lake and go back to it of her own accord . 
And you won't meddle any more in my affairs ? No. Very well , you shall see that to night . 
Come to the masked ball . 
Christine and I will go and have a look round . 
Then you can hide in the lumber room and you shall see Christine , who will have gone to her dressing room , delighted to come back by the Communists' road . 
And , now , be off , for I must go and do some shopping ! To my intense astonishment , things happened as he had announced . 
Christine Daae left the house on the lake and returned to it several times , without , apparently , being forced to do so . 
It was very difficult for me to clear my mind of Erik . 
However , I resolved to be extremely prudent , and did not make the mistake of returning to the shore of the lake , or of going by the Communists' road . 
At last my patience was rewarded . 
One day , I saw the monster come toward me , on his knees . 
I was certain that he could not see me . 
He passed between the scene behind which I stood and a set piece , went to the wall and pressed on a spring that moved a stone and afforded him an ingress . 
He passed through this , and the stone closed behind him . 
I waited for at least thirty minutes and then pressed the spring in my turn . 
Everything happened as with Erik . 
But I was careful not to go through the hole myself , for I knew that Erik was inside . 
On the other hand , the idea that I might be caught by Erik suddenly made me think of the death of Joseph Buquet . 
I continued to wander , very cautiously , about the Opera and soon learned the truth about the monster's dreary love affair . 
He filled Christine's mind , through the terror with which he inspired her , but the dear child's heart belonged wholly to the Vicomte Raoul de Chagny . 
I was prepared to do anything to kill the monster , if necessary , and explain to the police afterward . 
But Erik did not show himself and I felt none the more comfortable for that . 
I must explain my whole plan . 
I thought that the monster , being driven from his house by jealousy , would thus enable me to enter it , without danger , through the passage in the third cellar . 
It was important , for everybody's sake , that I should know exactly what was inside . 
I knew that this was the work of his life . 
I was careful not to stir and remained prudently in my dark hole . 
He stopped playing , for a moment , and began walking about his place , like a madman . 
On the day of the abduction of Christine Daae , I did not come to the theater until rather late in the evening , trembling lest I should hear bad news . 
But reason returned to me , and I was persuaded that this action could only precipitate a possible catastrophe . 
Christine Daae's abduction in the Prison Act , which naturally surprised everybody , found me prepared . 
I was quite certain that she had been juggled away by Erik , that prince of conjurers . 
I felt , however , that they would be sure to look upon me as mad and I refrained . 
On the other hand , I resolved to act without further delay , as far as I was concerned . 
The chances were in my favor that Erik , at that moment , was thinking only of his captive . 
I had sent my servant for my pistols . 
I gave one to the viscount and advised him to hold himself ready to fire , for , after all , Erik might be waiting for us behind the wall . 
We were to go by the Communists' road and through the trap door . 
Seeing my pistols , the little viscount asked me if we were going to fight a duel . 
I said Yes and what a duel ! But , of course , I had no time to explain anything to him . 
The little viscount is a brave fellow , but he knew hardly anything about his adversary and it was so much the better . 
My great fear was that he was already somewhere near us , preparing the Punjab lasso . 
No one knows better than he how to throw the Punjab lasso , for he is the king of stranglers even as he is the prince of conjurors . 
It was then that he introduced the sport of the Punjab lasso . 
He had lived in India and acquired an incredible skill in the art of strangulation . 
He would make them lock him into a courtyard to which they brought a warrior usually , a man condemned to death armed with a long pike and broadsword . 
The little sultana herself learned to wield the Punjab lasso and killed several of her women and even of the friends who visited her . 
But I prefer to drop this terrible subject of the rosy hours of Mazenderan . 
My pistols could serve no purpose , for Erik was not likely to show himself but Erik could always strangle us . 
I had no time to explain all this to the viscount besides , there was nothing to be gained by complicating the position . 
I simply told M. de Chagny to keep his hand at the level of his eyes , with the arm bent , as though waiting for the command to fire . 
With his victim in this attitude , it is impossible even for the most expert strangler to throw the lasso with advantage . 
It catches you not only round the neck , but also round the arm or hand . 
This enables you easily to unloose the lasso , which then becomes harmless . 
I worked the stone , and we jumped into the house which Erik had built himself in the double case of the foundation walls of the Opera . 
I knew my Erik too well to feel at all comfortable on jumping into his house . 
I knew what he had made of a certain palace at Mazenderan . 
With his trap doors the monster was responsible for endless tragedies of all kinds . 
He hit upon astonishing inventions . 
Of these , the most curious , horrible and dangerous was the so called torture chamber . 
Except in special cases , when the little sultana amused herself by inflicting suffering upon some unoffending citizen , no one was let into it but wretches condemned to death . 
At our feet , I found the Punjab lasso which I had been dreading all the evening . 
I was convinced that this rope had already done duty for Joseph Buquet , who , like myself , must have caught Erik one evening working the stone in the third cellar . 
He probably tried it in his turn , fell into the torture chamber and only left it hanged . 
This explains the disappearance of the rope . 
And now I discovered the lasso , at our feet , in the torture chamber ! . 
I am no coward , but a cold sweat covered my forehead as I moved the little red disk of my lantern over the walls . 
M. de Chagny noticed it and asked What is the matter , sir ? I made him a violent sign to be silent . 
the iron tree , with its iron branch , for the hanged men . 
I seized my companion's arm the Vicomte de Chagny was all a quiver , eager to shout to his betrothed that he was bringing her help . 
I feared that he would not be able to contain himself . 
Suddenly , we heard a noise on our left . 
It sounded at first like a door opening and shutting in the next room and then there was a dull moan . 
There was another moan , followed by a long silence . 
I was persuaded by now that the monster was unaware of our presence in his house , for otherwise he would certainly have managed not to let us hear him . 
He would only have had to close the little invisible window through which the torture lovers look down into the torture chamber . 
Besides , I was certain that , if he had known of our presence , the tortures would have begun at once . 
I want to have a wife like everybody else and to take her out on Sundays . 
I have invented a mask that makes me look like anybody . 
People will not even turn round in the streets . 
You will be the happiest of women . 
And we will sing , all by ourselves , till we swoon away with delight . 
You are crying ! You are afraid of me ! And yet I am not really wicked . 
Love me and you shall see ! All I wanted was to be loved for myself . 
If you loved me I should be as gentle as a lamb and you could do anything with me that you pleased . 
Soon the moans that accompanied this sort of love's litany increased and increased . 
I have never heard anything more despairing and M. de Chagny and I recognized that this terrible lamentation came from Erik himself . 
Christine seemed to be standing dumb with horror , without the strength to cry out , while the monster was on his knees before her . 
Each silence gave us fresh hope . 
We said to ourselves Perhaps he has left Christine behind the wall . 
And we thought only of the possibility of warning Christine Daae of our presence , unknown to the monster . 
Suddenly , the silence in the next room was disturbed by the ringing of an electric bell . 
There was a bound on the other side of the wall and Erik's voice of thunder Somebody ringing ! Walk in , please ! A sinister chuckle . 
Who has come bothering now ? Wait for me here . 
I AM GOING TO TELL THE SIREN TO OPEN THE DOOR . 
Steps moved away , a door closed . 
Nevertheless , the viscount had to repeat his cry time after time . 
At last , a faint voice reached us . 
I am dreaming ! it said . 
Christine , Christine , it is I , Raoul ! A silence . 
But answer me , Christine ! . 
In Heaven's name , if you are alone , answer me ! Then Christine's voice whispered Raoul's name . 
Yes ! Yes ! It is I ! It is not a dream ! . 
Christine , trust me ! . 
We are here to save you . 
but be prudent ! When you hear the monster , warn us ! Then Christine gave way to fear . 
He had given her till eleven o'clock the next evening for reflection . 
It was the last respite . 
She must choose , as he said , between the wedding mass and the requiem . 
Can you tell us where Erik is ? I asked . 
She replied that he must have left the house . 
Could you make sure ? No. I am fastened . 
I can not stir a limb . 
When we heard this , M. de Chagny and I gave a yell of fury . 
Our safety , the safety of all three of us , depended on the girl's liberty of movement . 
But where are you ? asked Christine . 
Oh , if I could only drag myself so far ! I would knock at the door and that would tell you where it is . 
Is it a door with a lock to it ? I asked . 
Yes , with a lock . 
Mademoiselle , I said , it is absolutely necessary , that you should open that door to us ! But how ? asked the poor girl tearfully . 
We heard her straining , trying to free herself from the bonds that held her . 
I know where the key is , she said , in a voice that seemed exhausted by the effort she had made . 
But I am fastened so tight . 
Oh , the wretch ! And she gave a sob . 
Where is the key ? I asked , signing to M. de Chagny not to speak and to leave the business to me , for we had not a moment to lose . 
In the next room , near the organ , with another little bronze key , which he also forbade me to touch . 
They are both in a little leather bag which he calls the bag of life and death . 
Raoul ! Raoul ! Fly ! Everything is mysterious and terrible here , and Erik will soon have gone quite mad , and you are in the torture chamber ! . 
Go back by the way you came . 
There must be a reason why the room is called by that name ! Christine , said the young man . 
we will go from here together or die together ! We must keep cool , I whispered . 
He was going TO HIS BANKER , so he said ! . 
When he returned he found me with my face covered with blood . 
I had tried to kill myself by striking my forehead against the walls . 
Christine ! groaned Raoul and he began to sob . 
I am not allowed to die until eleven o'clock to morrow evening . 
Mademoiselle , I declared , the monster bound you . 
and he shall unbind you . 
You have only to play the necessary part ! Remember that he loves you ! Alas ! we heard . 
Am I likely to forget it ! Remember it and smile to him . 
tell him that your bonds hurt you . 
But Christine Daae said Hush ! . 
I hear something in the wall on the lake ! . 
Go away ! Go away ! Go away ! We could not go away , even if we wanted to , I said , as impressively as I could . 
We can not leave this ! And we are in the torture chamber ! Hush ! whispered Christine again . 
Heavy steps sounded slowly behind the wall , then stopped and made the floor creak once more . 
two page color illustration Another sigh , deeper , more tremendous still , came from the abysmal depths of a soul . 
Why did you cry out , Christine ? Because I am in pain , Erik . 
I thought I had frightened you . 
Erik , unloose my bonds . 
Am I not your prisoner ? You will try to kill yourself again . 
You have given me till eleven o'clock to morrow evening , Erik . 
The footsteps dragged along the floor again . 
After all , as we are to die together . 
and I am just as eager as you . 
yes , I have had enough of this life , you know . 
Wait , don't move , I will release you . 
You have only one word to say NO ! And it will at once be over WITH EVERYBODY ! . 
You are right , you are right why wait till eleven o'clock to morrow evening ? True , it would have been grander , finer . 
But that is childish nonsense . 
We should only think of ourselves in this life , of our own death . 
YOU'RE LOOKING AT ME BECAUSE I AM ALL WET ? . 
Oh , my dear , it's raining cats and dogs outside ! . 
Apart from that , Christine , I think I am subject to hallucinations . 
You know , the man who rang at the siren's door just now go and look if he's ringing at the bottom of the lake well , he was rather like . 
are you glad ? You're free now . 
Oh , my poor Christine , look at your wrists tell me , have I hurt them ? . 
Talking of death , I MUST SING HIS REQUIEM ! Hearing these terrible remarks , I received an awful presentiment . 
I too had once rung at the monster's door . 
and , without knowing it , must have set some warning current in motion . 
And I remembered the two arms that had emerged from the inky waters . 
The elements seemed to rage around us . 
Suddenly , the organ and the voice ceased so suddenly that M. de Chagny sprang back , on the other side of the wall , with emotion . 
And the voice , changed and transformed , distinctly grated out these metallic syllables WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH MY BAG ? Chapter XXIII The Tortures Begin THE PERSIAN'S NARRATIVE CONTINUED . 
What are you running away for ? asked the furious voice , which had followed her . 
Give me back my bag , will you ? Don't you know that it is the bag of life and death ? Listen to me , Erik , sighed the girl . 
As it is settled that we are to live together . 
what difference can it make to you ? You know there are only two keys in it , said the monster . 
What do you want to do ? I want to look at this room which I have never seen and which you have always kept from me . 
It's woman's curiosity ! she said , in a tone which she tried to render playful . 
But the trick was too childish for Erik to be taken in by it . 
I don't like curious women , he retorted , and you had better remember the story of BLUE BEARD and be careful . 
Come , give me back my bag ! . 
Give me back my bag ! . 
Leave the key alone , will you , you inquisitive little thing ? And he chuckled , while Christine gave a cry of pain . 
Erik had evidently recovered the bag from her . 
At that moment , the viscount could not help uttering an exclamation of impotent rage . 
Why , what's that ? said the monster . 
Did you hear , Christine ? No , no , replied the poor girl . 
I thought I heard a cry . 
A cry ! Are you going mad , Erik ? Whom do you expect to give a cry , in this house ? . 
I cried out , because you hurt me ! I heard nothing . 
I don't like the way you said that ! . 
That was a cry , there was a cry ! . 
There is some one in the torture chamber ! . 
Well , it won't take long to find out . 
Christine , my love , we need not open the door to see what is happening in the torture chamber . 
We need only draw the black curtain and put out the light in here . 
Let's put out the light ! You're not afraid of the dark , when you're with your little husband ! Then we heard Christine's voice of anguish No ! . 
I tell you , I'm afraid of the dark ! . 
I don't care about that room now . 
You're always frightening me , like a child , with your torture chamber ! . 
And so I became inquisitive . 
But I don't care about it now . 
not a bit ! And that which I feared above all things began , AUTOMATICALLY . 
We were suddenly flooded with light ! Yes , on our side of the wall , everything seemed aglow . 
The Vicomte de Chagny was so much taken aback that he staggered . 
You have often asked me to tell you and now you know ! . 
They are there to give a peep into the torture chamber . 
you inquisitive little thing ! What tortures ? . 
Who is being tortured ? . 
Erik , Erik , say you are only trying to frighten me ! . 
Say it , if you love me , Erik ! . 
Go and peep through the little window ! Tell me what he looks like ! We heard the steps being dragged against the wall . 
No , I will go up myself , dear ! Oh , very well , I will go up . 
Let me go ! Oh , my darling , my darling ! . 
How sweet of you ! . 
How nice of you to save me the exertion at my age ! . 
Tell me what he looks like ! At that moment , we distinctly heard these words above our heads There is no one there , dear ! No one ? . 
Are you sure there is no one ? Why , of course not . 
no one ! Well , that's all right ! . 
What's the matter , Christine ? You're not going to faint , are you . 
as there is no one there ? . 
as there is no one there ! . 
BUT HOW DO YOU LIKE THE LANDSCAPE ? Oh , very much ! There , that's better ! . 
You're better now , are you not ? . 
That's all right , you're better ! . 
And what a funny house , isn't it , with landscapes like that in it ? Yes , it's like the Musee Grevin . 
But , say , Erik . 
there are no tortures in there ! . 
What a fright you gave me ! Why . 
as there is no one there ? Did you design that room ? It's very handsome . 
You're a great artist , Erik . 
Yes , a great artist , in my own line . 
But tell me , Erik , why did you call that room the torture chamber ? Oh , it's very simple . 
First of all , what did you see ? I saw a forest . 
And what is in a forest ? Trees . 
And what is in a tree ? Birds . 
Did you see any birds ? No , I did not see any birds . 
Well , what did you see ? Think ! You saw branches And what are the branches ? asked the terrible voice . 
THERE'S A GIBBET ! That is why I call my wood the torture chamber ! . 
You see , it's all a joke . 
I never express myself like other people . 
But I am very tired of it ! . 
I'm sick and tired of having a forest and a torture chamber in my house and of living like a mountebank , in a house with a false bottom ! . 
Here , shall I show you some card tricks ? That will help us to pass a few minutes , while waiting for eleven o'clock to morrow evening . 
My dear little Christine ! . 
Are you listening to me ? . 
Tell me you love me ! . 
No , you don't love me . 
but no matter , you will ! . 
Once , you could not look at my mask because you knew what was behind . 
And now you don't mind looking at it and you forget what is behind ! . 
One can get used to everything . 
For instance , I am the greatest ventriloquist that ever lived , I am the first ventriloquist in the world ! . 
Perhaps you don't believe me ? Listen . 
One thing must have pacified her for a moment and that was seeing the two of us , behind the wall , in the midst of that resplendent light , alive and well . 
But she would certainly have felt much easier if the light had been put out . 
Meantime , the other had already begun to play the ventriloquist . 
He said Here , I raise my mask a little . 
Oh , only a little ! . 
You see my lips , such lips as I have ? They're not moving ! . 
My mouth is closed such mouth as I have and yet you hear my voice . 
Where will you have it ? In your left ear ? In your right ear ? In the table ? In those little ebony boxes on the mantelpiece ? . 
Listen , dear , it's in the little box on the right of the mantelpiece what does it say ? SHALL I TURN THE SCORPION ? . 
And now , crack ! What does it say in the little box on the left ? SHALL I TURN THE GRASSHOPPER ? . 
And now , crack ! Here it is in the little leather bag . 
What does it say ? I AM THE LITTLE BAG OF LIFE AND DEATH ! . 
And now , crack ! It is on a chair in the ghost's box and it says , MADAME CARLOTTA IS SINGING TO NIGHT TO BRING THE CHANDELIER DOWN ! . 
It passed through the little invisible window , through the walls . 
It ran around us , between us . 
Erik was there , speaking to us ! We made a movement as though to fling ourselves upon him . 
You tire me with your voice . 
Don't go on , Erik ! Isn't it very hot here ? Oh , yes , replied Erik's voice , the heat is unendurable ! But what does this mean ? . 
The wall is really getting quite hot ! . 
The wall is burning ! I'll tell you , Christine , dear it is because of the forest next door . 
I could not restrain him . 
But we heard nothing except the monster's laughter , and the monster himself can have heard nothing else . 
Plenty of these rooms have been seen since , mainly at exhibitions they are called palaces of illusion , or some such name . 
But the invention belongs entirely to Erik , who built the first room of this kind under my eyes , at the time of the rosy hours of Mazenderan . 
But the little sultana soon tired of this infantile illusion , whereupon Erik altered his invention into a torture chamber . 
For the architectural motive placed in one corner , he substituted an iron tree . 
We shall see how the scene thus obtained was twice altered instantaneously into two successive other scenes , by means of the automatic rotation of the drums or rollers in the corners . 
These were divided into three sections , fitting into the angles of the mirrors and each supporting a decorative scheme that came into sight as the roller revolved upon its axis . 
The ceiling was capable of being lit up . 
An ingenious system of electric heating , which has since been imitated , allowed the temperature of the walls and room to be increased at will . 
Nowadays , when we have all seen this sort of room , his precautions would be superfluous . 
I now return to the facts where I left them . 
When the ceiling lit up and the forest became visible around us , the viscount's stupefaction was immense . 
That impenetrable forest , with its innumerable trunks and branches , threw him into a terrible state of consternation . 
He passed his hands over his forehead , as though to drive away a dream his eyes blinked and , for a moment , he forgot to listen . 
I have already said that the sight of the forest did not surprise me at all and therefore I listened for the two of us to what was happening next door . 
Lastly , my attention was especially attracted , not so much to the scene , as to the mirrors that produced it . 
These mirrors were broken in parts . 
After all , I was thoroughly acquainted with most of Erik's tricks and now or never was the time to turn my knowledge to account . 
To begin with , I gave up every idea of returning to the passage that had brought us to that accursed chamber . 
I did not trouble about the possibility of working the inside stone that closed the passage and this for the simple reason that to do so was out of the question . 
There was only one possible outlet , that opening into the Louis Philippe room in which Erik and Christine Daae were . 
But , though this outlet looked like an ordinary door on Christine's side , it was absolutely invisible to us . 
We must therefore try to open it without even knowing where it was . 
But I had first to calm M. de Chagny , who was already walking about like a madman , uttering incoherent cries . 
He shouted Christine's name , brandished his pistol , knocked his forehead against the glass in his endeavors to run down the glades of the illusive forest . 
In short , the torture was beginning to work its spell upon a brain unprepared for it . 
I did my best to induce the poor viscount to listen to reason . 
We are in a room , a little room that is what you must keep saying to yourself . 
And we shall leave the room as soon as we have found the door . 
This weak point might be a mere speck on the glass , no larger than a pea , under which the spring lay hidden . 
I felt as high as my hands could reach . 
Erik was about the same height as myself and I thought that he would not have placed the spring higher than suited his stature . 
I am stifling , he said . 
He had not said a word of the forest and I hoped that my companion's reason would hold out some time longer against the torture . 
But he added What consoles me is that the monster has given Christine until eleven to morrow evening . 
Now the fever laid hold of me in my turn . 
for I found nothing , absolutely nothing . 
In the next room , all was silence . 
We were quite lost in the forest , without an outlet , a compass , a guide or anything . 
Oh , I knew what awaited us if nobody came to our aid . 
But they gave no shade . 
And this was natural enough , as we were in an equatorial forest , with the sun right above our heads , an African forest . 
I was still making a moral resistance , but M. de Chagny seemed to me quite gone . 
And then , at last Oh , how thirsty I am ! he cried , in delirious accents . 
My throat was on fire . 
And , yet , squatting on the floor , I went on hunting , hunting , hunting for the spring of the invisible door . 
especially as it was dangerous to remain in the forest as evening drew nigh . 
Already the shades of night were beginning to surround us . 
It had happened very quickly night falls quickly in tropical countries . 
suddenly , with hardly any twilight . 
The heat did not go with the daylight on the contrary , it was now still hotter under the blue rays of the moon . 
I urged the viscount to hold our weapons ready to fire and not to stray from camp , while I went on looking for my spring . 
Suddenly , we heard a lion roaring a few yards away . 
Oh , whispered the viscount , he is quite close ! . 
Don't you see him ? . 
in that thicket ! If he roars again , I will fire ! . 
And the roaring began again , louder than before . 
And the viscount fired , but I do not think that he hit the lion only , he smashed a mirror , as I perceived the next morning , at daybreak . 
We must have covered a good distance during the night , for we suddenly found ourselves on the edge of the desert , an immense desert of sand , stones and rocks . 
It was really not worth while leaving the forest to come upon the desert . 
Tired out , I flung myself down beside the viscount , for I had had enough of looking for springs which I could not find . 
I was quite surprised and I said so to the viscount that we had encountered no other dangerous animals during the night . 
Usually , after the lion came the leopard and sometimes the buzz of the tsetse fly . 
Over this skin he tied a string of catgut , which was fastened at the middle to another similar string passing through the whole length of the tabour . 
And by this time he must be quite aware who were the occupants of his torture chamber . 
I called him Erik ! Erik ! I shouted as loudly as I could across the desert , but there was no answer to my voice . 
All around us lay the silence and the bare immensity of that stony desert . 
What was to become of us in the midst of that awful solitude ? We were beginning literally to die of heat , hunger and thirst . 
At last , I saw M. de Chagny raise himself on his elbow and point to a spot on the horizon . 
He had discovered an oasis ! Yes , far in the distance was an oasis . 
an oasis with limpid water , which reflected the iron trees ! . 
Tush , it was the scene of the mirage . 
I recognized it at once . 
the worst of the three ! . 
No one had been able to fight against it . 
Don't believe in the water ! . 
It's another trick of the mirrors ! . 
And the desert was real ! . 
And so was the forest ! . 
And it was no use trying to take him in . 
he was an old , experienced traveler . 
he had been all over the place ! And he dragged himself along , saying Water ! Water ! And his mouth was open , as though he were drinking . 
And my mouth was open too , as though I were drinking . 
For we not only saw the water , but WE HEARD IT ! . 
We heard it flow , we heard it ripple ! . 
Do you understand that word ripple ? . 
IT IS A SOUND WHICH YOU HEAR WITH YOUR TONGUE ! . 
Oh , I knew well enough how Erik obtained it ! He filled with little stones a very long and narrow box , broken up inside with wooden and metal projections . 
The stones , in falling , struck against these projections and rebounded from one to another and the result was a series of pattering sounds that exactly imitated a rainstorm . 
and I also licked the glass . 
It was burning hot ! Then we rolled on the floor with a hoarse cry of despair . 
M. de Chagny put the one pistol that was still loaded to his temple and I stared at the Punjab lasso at the foot of the iron tree . 
I knew why the iron tree had returned , in this third change of scene ! . 
The iron tree was waiting for me ! . 
But , as I stared at the Punjab lasso , I saw a thing that made me start so violently that M. de Chagny delayed his attempt at suicide . 
And then I caught the pistol from him . 
and then I dragged myself on my knees toward what I had seen . 
I had discovered , near the Punjab lasso , in a groove in the floor , a black headed nail of which I knew the use . 
At last I had discovered the spring ! I felt the nail . 
I lifted a radiant face to M. de Chagny . 
The black headed nail yielded to my pressure . 
And then we saw not a door opened in the wall , but a cellar flap released in the floor . 
Cool air came up to us from the black hole below . 
We stooped over that square of darkness as though over a limpid well . 
With our chins in the cool shade , we drank it in . 
And we bent lower and lower over the trap door . 
What could there be in that cellar which opened before us ? Water ? Water to drink ? I thrust my arm into the darkness and came upon a stone and another stone . 
a dark staircase leading into the cellar . 
The viscount wanted to fling himself down the hole but I , fearing a new trick of the monster's , stopped him , turned on my dark lantern and went down first . 
The staircase was a winding one and led down into pitchy darkness . 
But oh , how deliciously cool were the darkness and the stairs ? The lake could not be far away . 
We soon reached the bottom . 
Our eyes were beginning to accustom themselves to the dark , to distinguish shapes around us . 
on which I turned the light of my lantern . 
Barrels ! We were in Erik's cellar it was here that he must keep his wine and perhaps his drinking water . 
I knew that Erik was a great lover of good wine . 
Ah , there was plenty to drink here ! M. de Chagny patted the round shapes and kept on saying Barrels ! Barrels ! What a lot of barrels ! . 
Indeed , there was quite a number of them , symmetrically arranged in two rows , one on either side of us . 
They were small barrels and I thought that Erik must have selected them of that size to facilitate their carriage to the house on the lake . 
We examined them successively , to see if one of them had not a funnel , showing that it had been tapped at some time or another . 
But all the barrels were hermetically closed . 
Any barrels to sell ? My hand desisted from its work . 
M. de Chagny had also heard . 
He said That's funny ! It sounds as if the barrel were singing ! The song was renewed , farther away Barrels ! . 
Any barrels to sell ? . 
Oh , I swear , said the viscount , that the tune dies away in the barrel ! . 
We stood up and went to look behind the barrel . 
It's inside , said M. de Chagny , it's inside ! But we heard nothing there and were driven to accuse the bad condition of our senses . 
And we returned to the bung hole . 
M. de Chagny put his two hands together underneath it and , with a last effort , I burst the bung . 
What's this ? cried the viscount . 
This isn't water ! The viscount put his two full hands close to my lantern . 
and at once threw away the lantern with such violence that it broke and went out , leaving us in utter darkness . 
What I had seen in M. de Chagny's hands . 
He had chosen his time well . 
There would be many people , many members of the human race , up there , in the resplendent theater . 
What finer retinue could be expected for his funeral ? He would go down to the tomb escorted by the whitest shoulders in the world , decked with the richest jewels . 
Eleven o'clock to morrow evening ! We were all to be blown up in the middle of the performance . 
if Christine Daae said no ! Eleven o'clock to morrow evening ! . 
But , suddenly I drew myself up on the first step , for a terrible thought had come to my mind What is the time ? Ah , what was the time ? . 
since the beginning of the world . 
Perhaps we should be blown up then and there ! Ah , a sound ! A crack ! Did you hear that ? . 
There , in the corner . 
Like a sound of machinery ! . 
Oh , for a light ! . 
Perhaps it's the machinery that is to blow everything up ! . 
I tell you , a cracking sound are you deaf ? M. de Chagny and I began to yell like madmen . 
We dragged ourselves along the floor of the torture chamber , the floor that separated us from the powder magazine . 
What was the time ? We shouted , we called M. de Chagny to Christine , I to Erik . 
I reminded him that I had saved his life . 
If only we could see the face of a watch ! . 
Mine had stopped , but M. de Chagny's was still going . 
He told me that he had wound it up before dressing for the Opera . 
We had not a match upon us . 
And yet we must know . 
M. de Chagny broke the glass of his watch and felt the two hands . 
He questioned the hands of the watch with his finger tips , going by the position of the ring of the watch . 
Judging by the space between the hands , he thought it might be just eleven o'clock ! But perhaps it was not the eleven o'clock of which we stood in dread . 
Perhaps we had still twelve hours before us ! Suddenly , I exclaimed Hush ! I seemed to hear footsteps in the next room . 
Some one tapped against the wall . 
Christine Daae's voice said Raoul ! Raoul ! We were now all talking at once , on either side of the wall . 
Christine sobbed she was not sure that she would find M. de Chagny alive . 
The monster had been terrible , it seemed , had done nothing but rave , waiting for her to give him the yes which she refused . 
And yet she had promised him that yes , if he would take her to the torture chamber . 
He told me so just before he went . 
He is quite mad he tore off his mask and his yellow eyes shot flames ! . 
He did nothing but laugh ! . 
If you turn the scorpion round , that will mean to me , when I return , that you have said yes . 
The grasshopper will mean no . 
And he laughed like a drunken demon . 
I did nothing but beg and entreat him to give me the key of the torture chamber , promising to be his wife if he granted me that request . 
But he told me that there was no future need for that key and that he was going to throw it into the lake ! . 
And he again laughed like a drunken demon and left me . 
Nevertheless , I had sufficient lucidity left to understand that , if the grasshopper were turned , it would hop . 
He told her to turn the scorpion at once . 
Christine , I cried , where are you ? By the scorpion . 
Don't touch it ! The idea had come to me for I knew my Erik that the monster had perhaps deceived the girl once more . 
Perhaps it was the scorpion that would blow everything up . 
After all , why wasn't he there ? The five minutes were long past . 
and he was not back . 
Perhaps he had taken shelter and was waiting for the explosion ! . 
Why had he not returned ? . 
He could not really expect Christine ever to consent to become his voluntary prey ! . 
Why had he not returned ? Don't touch the scorpion ! I said . 
Here he comes ! cried Christine . 
I hear him ! Here he is ! We heard his steps approaching the Louis Philippe room . 
He came up to Christine , but did not speak . 
I tried to speak , but he said coldly Not a word , daroga , or I shall blow everything up . 
And he added , The honor rests with mademoiselle . 
Mademoiselle has not touched the scorpion how deliberately he spoke ! mademoiselle has not touched the grasshopper with that composure ! but it is not too late to do the right thing . 
There , I open the caskets without a key , for I am a trap door lover and I open and shut what I please and as I please . 
I open the little ebony caskets mademoiselle , look at the little dears inside . 
Aren't they pretty ? If you turn the grasshopper , mademoiselle , we shall all be blown up . 
There is enough gun powder under our feet to blow up a whole quarter of Paris . 
If you turn the scorpion , mademoiselle , all that powder will be soaked and drowned . 
Mademoiselle , to celebrate our wedding , you shall make a very handsome present to a few hundred Parisians who are at this moment applauding a poor masterpiece of Meyerbeer's . 
you shall make them a present of their lives . 
For , with your own fair hands , you shall turn the scorpion . 
and the grasshopper , I tell you , HOPS JOLLY HIGH ! The terrible silence began anew . 
The Vicomte de Chagny , realizing that there was nothing left to do but pray , went down on his knees and prayed . 
As for me , my blood beat so fiercely that I had to take my heart in both hands , lest it should burst . 
At last , we heard Erik's voice The two minutes are past . 
Ah , you see ! You said , to hop ! At our wedding , ingenuous child ! . 
The scorpion opens the ball . 
But that will do ! . 
You won't have the scorpion ? Then I turn the grasshopper ! Erik ! Enough ! I was crying out in concert with Christine . 
M. de Chagny was still on his knees , praying . 
But it was not the hiss of fire . 
It was more like the hiss of water . 
And now it became a gurgling sound Guggle ! Guggle ! We rushed to the trap door . 
All our thirst , which vanished when the terror came , now returned with the lapping of the water . 
The water rose in the cellar , above the barrels , the powder barrels Barrels ! . 
Barrels ! Any barrels to sell ? and we went down to it with parched throats . 
It rose to our chins , to our mouths . 
We stood on the floor of the cellar and drank . 
And we went up the stairs again in the dark , step by step , went up with the water . 
The water came out of the cellar with us and spread over the floor of the room . 
If , this went on , the whole house on the lake would be swamped . 
The , floor of the torture chamber had itself become a regular little lake , in which our feet splashed . 
We heard nothing but the water rising it was half way to our waists ! Christine ! cried M. de Chagny . 
Christine ! The water is up to our knees ! But Christine did not reply . 
We heard nothing but the water rising . 
Were we to die here , drowned in the torture chamber ? I had never seen that . 
Erik , at the time of the rosy hours of Mazenderan , had never shown me that , through the little invisible window . 
Erik ! Erik ! I cried . 
I saved your life ! Remember ! . 
You were sentenced to death ! But for me , you would be dead now ! . 
Erik ! We whirled around in the water like so much wreckage . 
But , suddenly , my straying hands seized the trunk of the iron tree ! I called M. de Chagny , and we both hung to the branch of the iron tree . 
And the water rose still higher . 
Oh ! Oh ! Can you remember ? How much space is there between the branch of the tree and the dome shaped ceiling ? Do try to remember ! . 
After all , the water may stop , it must find its level ! . 
There , I think it is stopping ! . 
No , no , oh , horrible ! . 
We whirled round again ! . 
We began to sink ! . 
A last cry Erik ! . 
Guggle , guggle , guggle ! in our ears . 
Notwithstanding the horrors of a situation which seemed definitely to abandon them to their deaths , M. de Chagny and his companion were saved by the sublime devotion of Christine Daae . 
And I had the rest of the story from the lips of the daroga himself . 
When I went to see him , he was still living in his little flat in the Rue de Rivoli , opposite the Tuileries . 
He was very ill , and it required all my ardor as an historian pledged to the truth to persuade him to live the incredible tragedy over again for my benefit . 
His faithful old servant Darius showed me in to him . 
The daroga received me at a window overlooking the garden of the Tuileries . 
He still had his magnificent eyes , but his poor face looked very worn . 
It seems that , when he opened his eyes , the daroga found himself lying on a bed . 
M. de Chagny was on a sofa , beside the wardrobe . 
An angel and a devil were watching over them . 
And the figure of the masked man seemed all the more formidable in this old fashioned , neat and trim little frame . 
It bent down over the Persian and said , in his ear Are you better , daroga ? . 
You are looking at my furniture ? . 
It is all that I have left of my poor unhappy mother . 
Christine Daae did not say a word she moved about noiselessly , like a sister of charity , who had taken a vow of silence . 
She brought a cup of cordial , or of hot tea , he did not remember which . 
The man in the mask took it from her hands and gave it to the Persian . 
M. de Chagny was still sleeping . 
Erik poured a drop of rum into the daroga's cup and , pointing to the viscount , said He came to himself long before we knew if you were still alive , daroga . 
We must not wake him . 
Erik left the room for a moment , and the Persian raised himself on his elbow , looked around him and saw Christine Daae sitting by the fireside . 
He spoke to her , called her , but he was still very weak and fell back on his pillow . 
Christine came to him , laid her hand on his forehead and went away again . 
Erik returned with some little bottles which he placed on the mantelpiece . 
And soon I shall take you up to the surface of the earth , TO PLEASE MY WIFE . 
Thereupon he rose , without any further explanation , and disappeared once more . 
The Persian now looked at Christine's quiet profile under the lamp . 
She was reading a tiny book , with gilt edges , like a religious book . 
There are editions of THE IMITATION that look like that . 
The Persian still had in his ears the natural tone in which the other had said , to please my wife . 
Very gently , he called her again but Christine was wrapped up in her book and did not hear him . 
Erik returned , mixed the daroga a draft and advised him not to speak to his wife again nor to any one , BECAUSE IT MIGHT BE VERY DANGEROUS TO EVERYBODY'S HEALTH . 
As soon as the daroga recovered his strength and his wits , he sent to Count Philippe's house to inquire after the viscount's health . 
The answer was that the young man had not been seen and that Count Philippe was dead . 
His body was found on the bank of the Opera lake , on the Rue Scribe side . 
The Persian remembered the requiem mass which he had heard from behind the wall of the torture chamber , and had no doubt concerning the crime and the criminal . 
Knowing Erik as he did , he easily reconstructed the tragedy . 
Thinking that his brother had run away with Christine Daae , Philippe had dashed in pursuit of him along the Brussels Road , where he knew that everything was prepared for the elopement . 
And the count , who no longer entertained any doubt of his brother's madness , in his turn darted into that infernal underground maze . 
The Persian did not hesitate . 
He determined to inform the police . 
, with a mind utterly unprepared to receive a confidence of this kind . 
M. Faure took down the daroga's depositions and proceeded to treat him as a madman . 
Despairing of ever obtaining a hearing , the Persian sat down to write . 
The Persian at once felt who his singular visitor was and ordered him to be shown in . 
It was the ghost , it was Erik ! He looked extremely weak and leaned against the wall , as though he were afraid of falling . 
Taking off his hat , he revealed a forehead white as wax . 
The rest of the horrible face was hidden by the mask . 
The Persian rose to his feet as Erik entered . 
Then , speaking in short phrases and gasping for breath between the words Daroga , don't talk to me . 
You lie ! shouted the Persian . 
Erik bowed his head and said I have not come here . 
to talk about Count Philippe . 
but to tell you that . 
Where are Raoul de Chagny and Christine Daae ? I am going to die . 
Raoul de Chagny and Christine Daae ? Of love . 
That is how it is . 
And I love her still . 
and I am dying of love for her , I. . 
If you knew how beautiful she was . 
when she let me kiss her . 
time , daroga , the first . 
time I ever kissed a woman . 
and she looked as beautiful as if she had been dead ! The Persian shook Erik by the arm Will you tell me if she is alive or dead . 
Why do you shake me like that ? asked Erik , making an effort to speak more connectedly . 
I tell you that I am going to die . 
Yes , I kissed her alive . 
And now she is dead ? I tell you I kissed her just like that , on her forehead . 
and she did not draw back her forehead from my lips ! . 
Oh , she is a good girl ! . 
As to her being dead , I don't think so but it has nothing to do with me . 
As a matter of fact , nobody bothered about you . 
As for you , you did not exist , you had ceased to exist , I tell you , and you were going to die with the other ! . 
Until then , in the depths of her eyes , daroga , I had always seen my dead wife it was the first time I saw MY LIVING WIFE there . 
She was sincere , as she hoped to be saved . 
She would not kill herself . 
It was understood that I was to take you both up to the surface of the earth . 
When , at last , I cleared the Louis Philippe room of you , I came back alone . 
What have you done with the Vicomte de Chagny ? asked the Persian , interrupting him . 
Ah , you see , daroga , I couldn't carry HIM up like that , at once . 
Then I came back to Christine , she was waiting for me . 
Then he continued , but , as he spoke , he was overcome by all his former emotion and began to tremble like a leaf Yes , she was waiting for me . 
waiting for me erect and alive , a real , living bride . 
as she hoped to be saved . 
came forward , more timid than . 
a little child , she did not run away . 
that she put out her forehead . 
And she did not die ! . 
Oh , how good it is , daroga , to kiss somebody on the forehead ! . 
But I ! I ! . 
My mother , daroga , my poor , unhappy mother would never . 
She used to run away . 
and throw me my mask ! . 
Ah , you can understand , my happiness was so great , I cried . 
And I fell at her feet , crying . 
and I kissed her feet . 
You're crying , too , daroga . 
I felt her tears flow on my forehead . 
on mine , mine ! . 
They trickled under my mask . 
they mingled with my tears in my eyes . 
they flowed between my lips . 
Listen , daroga , listen to what I did . 
I tore off my mask so as not to lose one of her tears . 
and she did not run away ! . 
And she did not die ! . 
She remained alive , weeping over me , with me . 
but let me cry ! . 
While I was at her feet . 
I heard her say , Poor , unhappy Erik ! . 
AND SHE TOOK MY HAND ! . 
I had become no more , you know , than a poor dog ready to die for her . 
I mean it , daroga ! . 
I held in my hand a ring , a plain gold ring which I had given her . 
and which I had found again . 
a wedding ring , you know . 
I slipped it into her little hand and said , There ! . 
It shall be my wedding present a present from your poor , unhappy Erik . 
I know you love the boy . 
don't cry any more ! . 
She asked me , in a very soft voice , what I meant . 
Then I made her understand that , where she was concerned , I was only a poor dog , ready to die for her . 
but that she could marry the young man when she pleased , because she had cried with me and mingled her tears with mine ! . 
Erik's emotion was so great that he had to tell the Persian not to look at him , for he was choking and must take off his mask . 
The daroga went to the window and opened it . 
His heart was full of pity , but he took care to keep his eyes fixed on the trees in the Tuileries gardens , lest he should see the monster's face . 
I went and released the young man , Erik continued , and told him to come with me to Christine . 
They kissed before me in the Louis Philippe room . 
I told her where she would find my body and what to do with it . 
Then Christine kissed me , for the first time , herself , here , on the forehead don't look , daroga ! here , on the forehead . 
on my forehead , mine don't look , daroga ! and they went off together . 
Daroga , daroga , if Christine keeps her promise , she will come back soon ! . 
The Persian asked him no questions . 
He was quite reassured as to the fate of Raoul Chagny and Christine Daae no one could have doubted the word of the weeping Erik that night . 
The monster resumed his mask and collected his strength to leave the daroga . 
The Persian saw Erik to the door of his flat , and Darius helped him down to the street . 
A cab was waiting for him . 
Erik stepped in and the Persian , who had gone back to the window , heard him say to the driver Go to the Opera . 
And the cab drove off into the night . 
The Persian had seen the poor , unfortunate Erik for the last time . 
Three weeks later , the Epoque published this advertisement Erik is dead . 
I have now told the singular , but veracious story of the Opera ghost . 
As I declared on the first page of this work , it is no longer possible to deny that Erik really lived . 
There are to day so many proofs of his existence within the reach of everybody that we can follow Erik's actions logically through the whole tragedy of the Chagnys . 
There is no need to repeat here how greatly the case excited the capital . 
What had become of that wonderful , mysterious artist of whom the world was never , never to hear again ? . 
They took the train one day from the northern railway station of the world . 
Possibly , some day , I shall hear the lonely echoes of the North repeat the singing of her who knew the Angel of Music ! . 
Long after the case was pigeonholed by the unintelligent care of M. le Juge d'Instruction Faure , the newspapers made efforts , at intervals , to fathom the mystery . 
One evening paper alone , which knew all the gossip of the theaters , said We recognize the touch of the Opera ghost . 
And even that was written by way of irony . 
The Persian alone knew the whole truth and held the main proofs , which came to him with the pious relics promised by the ghost . 
It fell to my lot to complete those proofs with the aid of the daroga himself . 
Day by day , I kept him informed of the progress of my inquiries and he directed them . 
I had no idea that he was so very ill , and I shall never forget the effect which my questions about the ghost produced upon him . 
The Persian , by the way , spoke of Erik sometimes as a demigod and sometimes as the lowest of the low Poligny was superstitious and Erik knew it . 
Erik knew most things about the public and private affairs of the Opera . 
They bequeathed the whole mystery to their successors and heaved a sigh of relief when they were rid of a business that had puzzled them without amusing them in the least . 
It contained the large sum of money which he had succeeded in playfully extracting , for the time being , from the treasury . 
Richard was at once of the opinion that we must be content with that and drop the business . 
All's well that ends well . 
I asked the Persian to tell me by what trick the ghost had taken twenty thousand francs from Richard's pocket in spite of the safety pin . 
The Persian's manuscript , Christine Daae's papers , the statements made to me by the people who used to work under MM . 
I have not been able to find the house on the lake , Erik having blocked up all the secret entrances . 
The letters are there to this day . 
Even so , I am convinced that it would be easy to reach it by draining the lake , as I have repeatedly requested the Ministry of Fine Arts to do . 
I was speaking about it to M. Dujardin Beaumetz , the under secretary for fine arts , only forty eight hours before the publication of this book . 
He will find that the column sounds hollow . 
After that , do not be astonished by the suggestion that it was occupied by the voice of the ghost there is room inside the column for two men . 
Giry and of his generosity . 
That is the way the forty thousand francs went ! . 
And that also is the way by which , through some trick or other , they were returned . 
His reason for restoring the forty thousand francs , of his own accord , was that he no longer wanted it . 
He had relinquished his marriage with Christine Daae . 
He had relinquished everything above the surface of the earth . 
According to the Persian's account , Erik was born in a small town not far from Rouen . 
He was the son of a master mason . 
He ran away at an early age from his father's house , where his ugliness was a subject of horror and terror to his parents . 
For a time , he frequented the fairs , where a showman exhibited him as the living corpse . 
A period of Erik's life remained quite obscure . 
He was seen at the fair of Nijni Novgorod , where he displayed himself in all his hideous glory . 
In this way , his reputation penetrated the walls of the palace at Mazenderan , where the little sultana , the favorite of the Shah in Shah , was boring herself to death . 
A dealer in furs , returning to Samarkand from Nijni Novgorod , told of the marvels which he had seen performed in Erik's tent . 
The trader was summoned to the palace and the daroga of Mazenderan was told to question him . 
Next the daroga was instructed to go and find Erik . 
He brought him to Persia , where for some months Erik's will was law . 
He was guilty of not a few horrors , for he seemed not to know the difference between good and evil . 
He took part calmly in a number of political assassinations and he turned his diabolical inventive powers against the Emir of Afghanistan , who was at war with the Persian empire . 
The Shah took a liking to him . 
This was the time of the rosy hours of Mazenderan , of which the daroga's narrative has given us a glimpse . 
Erik had very original ideas on the subject of architecture and thought out a palace much as a conjuror contrives a trick casket . 
The Shah ordered him to construct an edifice of this kind . 
When the Shah in Shah found himself the possessor of this gem , he ordered Erik's yellow eyes to be put out . 
Erik's death was decided upon , together with that of all the laborers who had worked under his orders . 
The execution of this abominable decree devolved upon the daroga of Mazenderan . 
Erik had shown him some slight services and procured him many a hearty laugh . 
He saved Erik by providing him with the means of escape , but nearly paid with his head for his generous indulgence . 
The daroga was let off with the loss of the imperial favor , the confiscation of his property and an order of perpetual banishment . 
As for Erik , he went to Asia Minor and thence to Constantinople , where he entered the Sultan's employment . 
See the interview of the special correspondent of the MATIN , with Mohammed Ali Bey , on the day after the entry of the Salonika troops into Constantinople . 
Of course , he had to leave the Sultan's service for the same reasons that made him fly from Persia he knew too much . 
Then , tired of his adventurous , formidable and monstrous life , he longed to be some one like everybody else . 
And he became a contractor , like any ordinary contractor , building ordinary houses with ordinary bricks . 
He tendered for part of the foundations in the Opera . 
When he found himself in the cellars of the enormous playhouse , his artistic , fantastic , wizard nature resumed the upper hand . 
The reader knows and guesses the rest . 
It is all in keeping with this incredible and yet veracious story . 
Poor , unhappy Erik ! Shall we pity him ? Shall we curse him ? He asked only to be some one , like everybody else . 
Ah , yes , we must needs pity the Opera ghost . 
I have prayed over his mortal remains , that God might show him mercy notwithstanding his crimes . 
Yes , I am sure , quite sure that I prayed beside his body , the other day , when they took it from the spot where they were burying the phonographic records . 
And , now , what do they mean to do with that skeleton ? Surely they will not bury it in the common grave ! . 
I say that the place of the skeleton of the Opera ghost is in the archives of the National Academy of Music . 
It is no ordinary skeleton . 
No European capital possesses an opera house so comprehensive in plan and execution , and none can boast an edifice equally vast and splendid . 
The site of the Opera House was chosen in . 
It was determined to lay the foundation exceptionally deep and strong . 
It was well known that water would be met with , but it was impossible to foresee at what depth or in what quantity it would be found . 
Exceptional depth also was necessary , as the stage arrangements were to be such as to admit a scene fifty feet high to be lowered on its frame . 
The floor of the cellar was covered with a layer of concrete , then with two coats of cement , another layer of concrete and a coat of bitumen . 
The wall includes an outer wall built as a coffer dam , a brick wall , a coat of cement , and a wall proper , a little over a yard thick . 
Twelve years elapsed before the completion of the building , and during that time it was demonstrated that the precautions taken secured absolute impermeability and solidity . 
The events of interrupted work just as it was about to be prosecuted most vigorously , and the new Opera House was put to new and unexpected uses . 
During the siege , it was converted into a vast military storehouse and filled with a heterogeneous mass of goods . 
After the siege the building fell into the hands of the Commune and the roof was turned into a balloon station . 
The damage done , however , was slight . 
The fine stone employed in the construction was brought from quarries in Sweden , Scotland , Italy , Algeria , Finland , Spain , Belgium and France . 
While work on the exterior was in progress , the building was covered in by a wooden shell , rendered transparent by thousands of small panes of glass . 
In a swarm of men , supplied with hammers and axes , stripped the house of its habit , and showed in all its splendor the great structure . 
No picture can do justice to the rich colors of the edifice or to the harmonious tone resulting from the skilful use of many diverse materials . 
The effect of the frontage is completed by the cupola of the auditorium , topped with a cap of bronze sparingly adorned with gilding . 
The spectator , having climbed ten steps and left behind him a gateway , reaches a vestibule in which are statues of Lully , Rameau , Gluck , and Handel . 
Ten steps of green Swedish marble lead to a second vestibule for ticket sellers . 
Visitors who enter by the pavilion reserved for carriages pass through a hallway where ticket offices are situated . 
The larger number of the audience , before entering the auditorium , traverse a large circular vestibule located exactly beneath it . 
The ceiling of this portion of the building is upheld by sixteen fluted columns of Jura stone , with white marble capitals , forming a portico . 
Here servants are to await their masters , and spectators may remain until their carriages are summoned . 
The third entrance , which is quite distinct from the others , is reserved for the Executive . 
Thus arrangements had to be made to accommodate in this part of the building about one hundred persons , fifty horses , and half a dozen carriages . 
The fall of the Empire suggested some changes , but ample provision still exists for emergencies . 
Its novel conception , perfect fitness , and rare splendor of material , make the grand stairway unquestionably one of the most remarkable features of the building . 
It presents to the spectator , who has just passed through the subscribers' pavilion , a gorgeous picture . 
To the right and to the left of this landing are stairways to the floor , on a plane with the first row of boxes . 
On this floor stand thirty monolith columns of Sarrancolin marble , with white marble bases and capitals . 
Pilasters of peach blossom and violet stone are against the corresponding walls . 
More than fifty blocks had to be extracted from the quarry to find thirty perfect monoliths . 
The foyer de la danse has particular interest for the habitues of the Opera . 
It is a place of reunion to which subscribers to three performances a week are admitted between the acts in accordance with a usage established in . 
Three immense looking glasses cover the back wall of the FOYER , and a chandelier with one hundred and seven burners supplies it with light . 
While the ladies of the ballet receive their admirers in this foyer , they can practise their steps . 
Thirty panels with portraits of the artists of repute in the annals of the Opera adorn this foyer . 
may be arrived at by sitting before the concierge an hour or so before the representation commences . 
Then come stage upholsterers , whose sole duty is to lay carpets , hang curtains , etc . 
gas men , and a squad of firemen . 
Claqueurs , call boys , property men , dressers , coiffeurs , supernumeraries , and artists , follow . 
There are about a hundred choristers , and about eighty musicians . 
This personnel is provided for as follows Eighty dressing rooms are reserved for the artists , each including a small antechamber , the dressing room proper , and a little closet . 
A few figures taken from the article will suggest the enormous capacity and the perfect convenience of the house . 
The musicians have a foyer with closets for their instruments . 
The author remarks of his visit to the Opera House that it was almost as bewildering as it was agreeable . 
Giant stairways and colossal halls , huge frescoes and enormous mirrors , gold and marble , satin and velvet , met the eye at every turn . 
