But oh ! alack ! and well a day ! No wishing carpets come my way . 
'Of course it isn't , said Cyril 'one word can't be grammar all by itself , so you needn't be so jolly clever . 
So Anthea only said , 'Don't be so jolly clever yourself , Squirrel . 
And the fireworks look all right , and you'll have the eightpence that your tram fares didn't cost to day , to buy something more with . 
You ought to get a perfectly lovely Catharine wheel for eightpence . 
'I daresay , said Cyril , coldly 'but it's not YOUR eightpence anyhow 'But look here , said Robert , 'really now , about the fireworks . 
We don't want to be disgraced before those kids next door . 
They think because they wear red plush on Sundays no one else is any good . 
'I wouldn't wear plush if it was ever so unless it was black to be beheaded in , if I was Mary Queen of Scots , said Anthea , with scorn . 
Robert stuck steadily to his point . 
One great point about Robert is the steadiness with which he can stick . 
'I think we ought to test them , he said . 
'You young duffer , said Cyril , 'fireworks are like postage stamps . 
You can only use them once . 
'What do you suppose it means by Carter's tested seeds in the advertisement ? There was a blank silence . 
Then Cyril touched his forehead with his finger and shook his head . 
'A little wrong here , he said . 
'I was always afraid of that with poor Robert . 
All that cleverness , you know , and being top in algebra so often it's bound to tell 'Dry up , said Robert , fiercely . 
'Don't you see ? You can't TEST seeds if you do them ALL . 
Don't you think we ought to sample the fire works ? Just shut our eyes and each draw one out , and then try them . 
'But it's raining cats and dogs , said Jane . 
'And Queen Anne is dead , rejoined Robert . 
No one was in a very good temper . 
'We needn't go out to do them we can just move back the table , and let them off on the old tea tray we play toboggans with . 
'It WOULD be something to do , Cyril owned with languid approval . 
So the table was moved back . 
And then the hole in the carpet , that had been near the window till the carpet was turned round , showed most awfully . 
But Anthea stole out on tip toe , and got the tray when cook wasn't looking , and brought it in and put it over the hole . 
Then all the fireworks were put on the table , and each of the four children shut its eyes very tight and put out its hand and grasped something . 
'I didn't mean to , said Jane , near tears . 
'I don't care , I'll draw another 'You know jolly well you can't , said Cyril , bitterly . 
You've done it , and you'll have to stand by it and us too , worse luck . 
YOU'LL have your pocket money before the Fifth . 
Anyway , we'll have the Jack in the box LAST , and get the most out of it we can . 
She came in , and she threw the paraffin over the tray just at the moment when Cyril was trying with the twenty third match to light the Jack in the box . 
They backed , in four instantaneous bounds , as far as they could , which was to the wall , and the pillar of fire reached from floor to ceiling . 
'My hat , said Cyril , with emotion , 'You've done it this time , Anthea . 
The flame was spreading out under the ceiling like the rose of fire in Mr Rider Haggard's exciting story about Allan Quatermain . 
Robert and Cyril saw that no time was to be lost . 
They turned up the edges of the carpet , and kicked them over the tray . 
This cut off the column of fire , and it disappeared and there was nothing left but smoke and a dreadful smell of lamps that have been turned too low . 
Robert , with the air of one doing the only possible thing , rushed to the window and opened it . 
Anthea screamed , Jane burst into tears , and Cyril turned the table wrong way up on top of the carpet heap . 
But the firework went on , banging and bursting and spluttering even underneath the table . 
The fact that the nursery carpet was ruined occasioned but little surprise , nor was any one really astonished that bed should prove the immediate end of the adventure . 
So that they all saw the fireworks most beautifully , and admired the skill with which father handled them . 
, and the ceiling had to be whitewashed . 
And the man replied 'There ain't a thread gone in it nowhere , mum . 
Then the carpet was put down in the nursery , and sure enough there wasn't a hole in it anywhere . 
As the last fold was unrolled something hard and loud sounding bumped out of it and trundled along the nursery floor . 
All the children scrambled for it , and Cyril got it . 
He took it to the gas . 
It was as though it was an egg with a yolk of pale fire that just showed through the stone . 
'I MAY keep it , mayn't I , mother ? Cyril asked . 
So she told them where the shop was , and it was in the Kentish Town Road , not far from the hotel that is called the Bull and Gate . 
It was a poky little shop , and the man was arranging furniture outside on the pavement very cunningly , so that the more broken parts should show as little as possible . 
And directly he saw the children he knew them again , and he began at once , without giving them a chance to speak . 
'No you don't' he cried loudly 'I ain't a goin' to take back no carpets , so don't you make no bloomin' errer . 
A bargain's a bargain , and the carpet's puffik throughout . 
'We don't want you to take it back , said Cyril 'but we found something in it . 
'It must have got into it up at your place , then , said the man , with indignant promptness , 'for there ain't nothing in nothing as I sell . 
It's all as clean as a whistle . 
'I never said it wasn't CLEAN , said Cyril , 'but 'Oh , if it's MOTHS , said the man , 'that's easy cured with borax . 
But I expect it was only an odd one . 
I tell you the carpet's good through and through . 
It hadn't got no moths when it left my 'ands not so much as an hegg . 
'But that's just it , interrupted Jane 'there WAS so much as an egg . 
The man made a sort of rush at the children and stamped his foot . 
'Clear out , I say ! he shouted , 'or I'll call for the police . 
A nice thing for customers to 'ear you a coming 'ere a charging me with finding things in goods what I sells . 
'Ere , be off , afore I sends you off with a flea in your ears . 
Hi ! constable The children fled , and they think , and their father thinks , that they couldn't have done anything else . 
Mother has her own opinion . 
But father said they might keep the egg . 
So the egg was put on the mantelpiece , where it quite brightened up the dingy nursery . 
The nursery was dingy , because it was a basement room , and its windows looked out on a stone area with a rockery made of clinkers facing the windows . 
Nothing grew in the rockery except London pride and snails . 
The room had been described in the house agent's list as a 'convenient breakfast room in basement , and in the daytime it was rather dark . 
At least , I suppose that was what they wanted , but the children never would . 
On the Fifth of November father and mother went to the theatre , and the children were not happy , because the Prossers next door had lots of fireworks and they had none . 
They were not even allowed to have a bonfire in the garden . 
'No more playing with fire , thank you , was father's answer , when they asked him . 
When the baby had been put to bed the children sat sadly round the fire in the nursery . 
'I'm beastly bored , said Robert . 
'Let's talk about the Psammead , said Anthea , who generally tried to give the conversation a cheerful turn . 
'What's the good of TALKING ? said Cyril . 
'What I want is for something to happen . 
It's awfully stuffy for a chap not to be allowed out in the evenings . 
There's simply nothing to do when you've got through your homers . 
Jane finished the last of her home lessons and shut the book with a bang . 
'We've got the pleasure of memory , said she . 
'Just think of last holidays . 
And if you want to know what kind of things they wished for , and how their wishes turned out you can read it all in a book called Five Children and It . 
But they were not bad sorts on the whole in fact , they were rather like you . 
'I don't want to think about the pleasures of memory , said Cyril 'I want some more things to happen . 
'We're very much luckier than any one else , as it is , said Jane . 
'Why , no one else ever found a Psammead . 
We ought to be grateful . 
'Why shouldn't we GO ON being , though ? Cyril asked 'lucky , I mean , not grateful . 
Why's it all got to stop ? 'Perhaps something will happen , said Anthea , comfortably . 
'Do you know , sometimes I think we are the sort of people that things DO happen to . 
'I think Panther's right , said Cyril 'I think we are the sort of people things do happen to . 
I have a sort of feeling things would happen right enough if we could only give them a shove . 
It just wants something to start it . 
'I wish they taught magic at school , Jane sighed . 
'I believe if we could do a little magic it might make something happen . 
Even the new carpet suggested nothing , though its pattern was a very wonderful one , and always seemed as though it were just going to make you think of something . 
'I could begin right enough , said Anthea 'I've read lots about it . 
But I believe it's wrong in the Bible . 
'It's only wrong in the Bible because people wanted to hurt other people . 
I don't see how things can be wrong unless they hurt somebody , and we don't want to hurt anybody and what's more , we jolly well couldn't if we tried . 
Let's get the Ingoldsby Legends . 
There's a thing about Abra cadabra there , said Cyril , yawning . 
'We may as well play at magic . 
They were awfully gone on magic . 
They used to work spells or something with a goat and a goose . 
'Well , that's all right , said Robert , unkindly 'you can play the goat right enough , and Jane knows how to be a goose . 
'I'll get Ingoldsby , said Anthea , hastily . 
'You turn up the hearthrug . 
So they traced strange figures on the linoleum , where the hearthrug had kept it clean . 
They traced them with chalk that Robert had nicked from the top of the mathematical master's desk at school . 
And they chanted all the gloomiest songs they could think of . 
And , of course , nothing happened . 
So then Anthea said , 'I'm sure a magic fire ought to be made of sweet smelling wood , and have magic gums and essences and things in it . 
'I don't know any sweet smelling wood , except cedar , said Robert 'but I've got some ends of cedar wood lead pencil . 
So they burned the ends of lead pencil . 
'Let's burn some of the eucalyptus oil we have for our colds , said Anthea . 
It certainly smelt very strong . 
And they burned lumps of camphor out of the big chest . 
It was very bright , and made a horrid black smoke , which looked very magical . 
'Oh , crikey ! said more than one voice . 
And every one instantly fell down flat on its front to look under the grate , and there lay the egg , glowing in a nest of hot ashes . 
'It's not smashed , anyhow , said Robert , and he put his hand under the grate and picked up the egg . 
'The tongs ! cried Anthea . 
But , alas , no one could remember where they were . 
Every one had forgotten that the tongs had last been used to fish up the doll's teapot from the bottom of the water butt , where the Lamb had dropped it . 
So the nursery tongs were resting between the water butt and the dustbin , and cook refused to lend the kitchen ones . 
'Never mind , said Robert , 'we'll get it out with the poker and the shovel . 
'Oh , stop , cried Anthea . 
'Look at it ! Look ! look ! look ! I do believe something IS going to happen ! For the egg was now red hot , and inside it something was moving . 
Next moment there was a soft cracking sound the egg burst in two , and out of it came a flame coloured bird . 
It rested a moment among the flames , and as it rested there the four children could see it growing bigger and bigger under their eyes . 
Every mouth was a gape , every eye a goggle . 
The bird rose in its nest of fire , stretched its wings , and flew out into the room . 
It flew round and round , and round again , and where it passed the air was warm . 
Then it perched on the fender . 
The children looked at each other . 
Then Cyril put out a hand towards the bird . 
They were not astonished , but they were very , very much interested . 
They looked at the bird , and it was certainly worth looking at . 
Its feathers were like gold . 
It was about as large as a bantam , only its beak was not at all bantam shaped . 
'I believe I know what it is , said Robert . 
A hasty dash and scramble among the papers on father's study table yielded , as the sum books say , 'the desired result' . 
'Which of you , it was saying , 'put the egg into the fire ? 'He did , said three voices , and three fingers pointed at Robert . 
The bird bowed at least it was more like that than anything else . 
'I am your grateful debtor , it said with a high bred air . 
The children were all choking with wonder and curiosity all except Robert . 
He held the paper in his hand , and he KNEW . 
He said I know who you are . 
And he opened and displayed a printed paper , at the head of which was a little picture of a bird sitting in a nest of flames . 
'You are the Phoenix , said Robert and the bird was quite pleased . 
'My fame has lived then for two thousand years , it said . 
'Allow me to look at my portrait . 
It looked at the page which Robert , kneeling down , spread out in the fender , and said 'It's not a flattering likeness . 
And what are these characters ? it asked , pointing to the printed part . 
'Oh , that's all dullish it's not much about YOU , you know , said Cyril , with unconscious politeness 'but you're in lots of books . 
'With portraits ? asked the Phoenix . 
The Phoenix nodded , and Cyril went off and fetched Volume X of the old Encyclopedia , and on page he found the following 'Phoenix in ornithology , a fabulous bird of antiquity . 
'Antiquity is quite correct , said the Phoenix , 'but fabulous well , do I look it ? Every one shook its head . 
Cyril went on 'The ancients speak of this bird as single , or the only one of its kind . 
'That's right enough , said the Phoenix . 
'They describe it as about the size of an eagle . 
'Eagles are of different sizes , said the Phoenix 'it's not at all a good description . 
All the children were kneeling on the hearthrug , to be as near the Phoenix as possible . 
'You'll boil your brains , it said . 
'Look out , I'm nearly cool now and with a whirr of golden wings it fluttered from the fender to the table . 
It was so nearly cool that there was only a very faint smell of burning when it had settled itself on the table cloth . 
'It's only a very little scorched , said the Phoenix , apologetically 'it will come out in the wash . 
The children gathered round the table . 
Hence the Phoenicians gave 'Never mind what they gave , said the Phoenix , ruffling its golden feathers . 
'They never gave much , anyway they always were people who gave nothing for nothing . 
That book ought to be destroyed . 
it's not , said everybody . 
'No , and it never was , said the Phoenix . 
'And that about the worm is just a vulgar insult . 
The Phoenix has an egg , like all respectable birds . 
I can't tell you how weary I got of it such a restless existence no repose . 
'But how did your egg get HERE ? asked Anthea . 
'Ah , that's my life secret , said the Phoenix . 
'I couldn't tell it to any one who wasn't really sympathetic . 
I've always been a misunderstood bird . 
You can tell that by what they say about the worm . 
I might tell YOU , it went on , looking at Robert with eyes that were indeed starry . 
'You put me on the fire Robert looked uncomfortable . 
'The rest of us made the fire of sweet scented woods and gums , though , said Cyril . 
It took it in the most unexpected manner . 
'Your candid avowal , it said , 'removes my last scruple . 
I will tell you my story . 
'And you won't vanish , or anything sudden will you ? , asked Anthea , anxiously . 
'Why ? it asked , puffing out the golden feathers , 'do you wish me to stay here ? 'Oh YES , said every one , with unmistakable sincerity . 
'Why ? asked the Phoenix again , looking modestly at the table cloth . 
'Because , said every one at once , and then stopped short only Jane added after a pause , 'you are the most beautiful person we've ever seen . 
'You are a sensible child , said the Phoenix , 'and I will NOT vanish or anything sudden . 
And I will tell you my tale . 
But I acquired the habit of laying my egg and burning myself every five hundred years and you know how difficult it is to break yourself of a habit . 
'Yes , said Cyril 'Jane used to bite her nails . 
'But I broke myself of it , urged Jane , rather hurt , 'You know I did . 
'Not till they put bitter aloes on them , said Cyril . 
, I doubt whether even bitter aloes could have cured ME . 
They were a prince and princess , and the story of their parents was one which I am sure you will like to hear . 
In early youth the mother of the princess happened to hear the story of a certain enchanter , and in that story I am sure you will be interested . 
The enchanter 'Oh , please don't , said Anthea . 
'I can't understand all these beginnings of stories , and you seem to be getting deeper and deeper in them every minute . 
Do tell us your OWN story . 
That's what we really want to hear . 
, and they had just sat on it and told it to take them right away from every one and it had brought them to the wilderness . 
And as they meant to stay there they had no further use for the carpet , so they gave it to me . 
That was indeed the chance of a lifetime ! 'I don't see what you wanted with a carpet , said Jane , 'when you've got those lovely wings . 
'They ARE nice wings , aren't they ? said the Phoenix , simpering and spreading them out . 
The words were no sooner out of my beak than egg and carpet disappeared . 
The royal lovers assisted to arrange my pile , and soothed my last moments . 
I burnt myself up and knew no more till I awoke on yonder altar . 
It pointed its claw at the grate . 
'But the carpet , said Robert , 'the magic carpet that takes you anywhere you wish . 
What became of that ? 'Oh , THAT ? said the Phoenix , carelessly 'I should say that that is the carpet . 
I remember the pattern perfectly . 
It pointed as it spoke to the floor , where lay the carpet which mother had bought in the Kentish Town Road for twenty two shillings and ninepence . 
At that instant father's latch key was heard in the door . 
No sooner said than done . 
They heard the soft voice of the Phoenix through the darkness . 
'I shall sleep on the cornice above your curtains , it said . 
'Please don't mention me to your kinsfolk . 
'Not much good , said Robert , 'they'd never believe us . 
I say , he called through the half open door to the girls 'talk about adventures and things happening . 
We ought to be able to get some fun out of a magic carpet AND a Phoenix . 
'Rather , said the girls , in bed . 
'Children , said father , on the stairs , 'go to sleep at once . 
What do you mean by talking at this time of night ? No answer was expected to this question , but under the bedclothes Cyril murmured one . 
'Don't know what we mean . 
I don't know what anything means . 
'But we've got a magic carpet AND a Phoenix , said Robert . 
'You'll get something else if father comes in and catches you , said Cyril . 
'Shut up , I tell you . 
But he knew as well as you do that the adventures of that carpet and that Phoenix were only just beginning . 
Father and mother had not the least idea of what had happened in their absence . 
This is often the case , even when there are no magic carpets or Phoenixes in the house . 
The next morning but I am sure you would rather wait till the next chapter before you hear about THAT . 
The carpet had transported them to bed just at the right moment , and the Phoenix had gone to roost on the cornice supporting the window curtains of the boys' room . 
'Excuse me , said a gentle voice , and a courteous beak opened , very kindly and delicately , the right eye of Cyril . 
'I hear the slaves below preparing food . 
Awaken ! A word of explanation and arrangement . 
'Sorry , said Cyril , coming awake all in a minute . 
'Do come back ! What was it you were saying ? Something about bacon and rations ? The Phoenix fluttered back to the brass rail at the foot of the bed . 
'I say you ARE real , said Cyril . 
'Yes , indeed , said Cyril , 'I see it is . 
Oh , what luck ! Wake up , Bobs ! There's jolly well something to wake up for today . 
And it's Saturday , too . 
'I've been reflecting , said the Phoenix , 'during the silent watches of the night , and I could not avoid the conclusion that you were quite insufficiently astonished at my appearance yesterday . 
The ancients were always VERY surprised . 
Did you , by chance , EXPECT my egg to hatch ? 'Not us , Cyril said . 
'Ah yes , said the Phoenix 'Psammeads were rare , even in my time . 
I remember I used to be called the Psammead of the Desert . 
I was always having compliments paid me I can't think why . 
'Can YOU give wishes , then ? asked Jane , who had now come in too . 
'Oh , dear me , no , said the Phoenix , contemptuously , 'at least but I hear footsteps approaching . 
I hasten to conceal myself . 
I think I said that this day was Saturday . 
Robert and Cyril intended to spend the morning in conversation with the Phoenix , but the bird had its own ideas about this . 
'I must have an hour or two's quiet , it said , 'I really must . 
My nerves will give way unless I can get a little rest . 
You must remember it's two thousand years since I had any conversation I'm out of practice , and I must take care of myself . 
I've often been told that mine is a valuable life . 
So then Robert and Cyril moved the table back and were going to sit on the carpet and wish themselves somewhere else . 
But before they could decide on the place , Cyril said 'I don't know . 
Perhaps it's rather sneakish to begin without the girls . 
'They'll be all the morning , said Robert , impatiently . 
Robert was so interested that he proposed to clean the front doorsteps a thing he had never been allowed to do . 
Nor was he allowed to do it on this occasion . 
One reason was that it had already been done by cook . 
Mother always went to granny's every Saturday , and generally some of the children went with her but today they were to keep house . 
And their hearts were full of joyous and delightful feelings every time they remembered that the house they would have to keep had a Phoenix in it , AND a wishing carpet . 
You can always keep the Lamb good and happy for quite a long time if you play the Noah's Ark game with him . 
He just sits on your lap and tells you what animal he is , and then you say the little poetry piece about whatever animal he chooses to be . 
Of course , some of the animals , like the zebra and the tiger , haven't got any poetry , because they are so difficult to rhyme to . 
The Lamb knows quite well which are the poetry animals . 
And when she said 'very' , of course there was a real bear's hug . 
They moved the table and chairs off the carpet , and Anthea swept it . 
'We must show it a LITTLE attention , she said kindly . 
'We'll give it tea leaves next time . 
Then every one sat down on the carpet . 
'Where shall we go ? was of course the question , and it was warmly discussed . 
Anthea wanted to go to Japan . 
Robert and Cyril voted for America , and Jane wished to go to the seaside . 
'Because there are donkeys there , said she . 
'Not in November , silly , said Cyril and the discussion got warmer and warmer , and still nothing was settled . 
'I vote we let the Phoenix decide , said Robert , at last . 
So they stroked it till it woke . 
'We want to go somewhere abroad , they said , 'and we can't make up our minds where . 
'Let the carpet make up ITS mind , if it has one , said the Phoenix . 
'Just say you wish to go abroad . 
Out of doors this is a feeble way to express where they were . 
They were out of out of the earth , or off it . 
In front of them lay land . 
'The coast of France , said the Phoenix , waking up and pointing with its wing . 
'Where do you wish to go ? I should always keep one wish , of course for emergencies otherwise you may get into an emergency from which you can't emerge at all . 
But the children were far too deeply interested to listen . 
'I tell you what , said Cyril 'let's let the thing go on and on , and when we see a place we really want to stop at why , we'll just stop . 
'It's like tobogganing , said Robert , 'so fast and smooth , only there's no door mat to stop short on it goes on and on . 
'You darling Phoenix , said Jane , 'it's all your doing . 
Oh , look at that ducky little church and the women with flappy cappy things on their heads . 
'Don't mention it , said the Phoenix , with sleepy politeness . 
'OH ! said Cyril , summing up all the rapture that was in every heart . 
'Look at it all look at it and think of the Kentish Town Road ! Every one looked and every one thought . 
It was Jane who suddenly said , 'I wish we'd brought that jam tart and cold mutton with us . 
It would have been jolly to have a picnic in the air . 
The jam tart and cold mutton were , however , far away , sitting quietly in the larder of the house in Camden Town which the children were supposed to be keeping . 
to see whether it was the sort of dinner she could ask her little mouse husband to sit down to . 
She had had a very good dinner herself . 
It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good . 
'We'll stop as soon as we see a nice place , said Anthea . 
'I've got threepence , and you boys have the fourpence each that your trams didn't cost the other day , so we can buy things to eat . 
I expect the Phoenix can speak French . 
The carpet was sailing along over rocks and rivers and trees and towns and farms and fields . 
And this again reminded them how hungry they were . 
'The top of that's just the exactly same size as the carpet , said Jane . 
And some of us could go out and get things to eat buy them honestly , I mean , not take them out of larder windows . 
'I think it would be better if we went Anthea was beginning but Jane suddenly clenched her hands . 
'I don't see why I should never do anything I want , just because I'm the youngest . 
Then slowly and carefully it began to sink under them . 
It was like a lift going down with you at the Army and Navy Stores . 
'I don't think we ought to wish things without all agreeing to them first , said Robert , huffishly . 
'Hullo ! What on earth ? For unexpectedly and greyly something was coming up all round the four sides of the carpet . 
It was as if a wall were being built by magic quickness . 
It was a foot high it was two feet high three , four , five . 
It was shutting out the light more and more . 
Anthea looked up at the sky and the walls that now rose six feet above them . 
'We're dropping into the tower , she screamed . 
'THERE WASN'T ANY TOP TO IT . 
So the carpet's going to fit itself in at the bottom . 
Robert sprang to his feet . 
'We ought to have Hullo ! an owl's nest . 
'Look sharp ! cried every one , but Robert did not look sharp enough . 
By the time he had drawn his hand out of the owl's nest there were no eggs there the carpet had sunk eight feet below him . 
'Jump , you silly cuckoo ! cried Cyril , with brotherly anxiety . 
But Robert couldn't turn round all in a minute into a jumping position . 
He was safe now , of course , but the outside part of his window was like a frame to a picture of part of the other side of the tower . 
And the others imagine their feelings as the carpet sank slowly and steadily to the very bottom of the tower , leaving Robert clinging to the wall . 
Robert did not even try to imagine their feelings he had quite enough to do with his own but you can . 
Then across the carpet they looked at each other , and then every chin was tilted up and every eye sought vainly to see where poor Robert had got to . 
Of course , they couldn't see him . 
'I wish we hadn't come , said Jane . 
'You always do , said Cyril , briefly . 
'Look here , we can't leave Robert up there . 
I wish the carpet would fetch him down . 
The carpet seemed to awake from a dream and pull itself together . 
It stiffened itself briskly and floated up between the four walls of the tower . 
The children below craned their heads back , and nearly broke their necks in doing it . 
The carpet rose and rose . 
'Oh , glory ! said Robert , 'that was a squeak . 
You don't know how I felt . 
I say , I've had about enough for a bit . 
Let's wish ourselves at home again and have a go at that jam tart and mutton . 
We can go out again afterwards . 
'Righto ! said every one , for the adventure had shaken the nerves of all . 
So they all got on to the carpet again , and said 'I wish we were at home . 
And lo and behold , they were no more at home than before . 
The Phoenix had taken the opportunity to go to sleep . 
Anthea woke it up gently . 
'Look here , she said . 
'I'm looking , said the Phoenix . 
'We WISHED to be at home , and we're still here , complained Jane . 
'No , said the Phoenix , looking about it at the high dark walls of the tower . 
'No I quite see that . 
'But we wished to be at home , said Cyril . 
'No doubt , said the bird , politely . 
'And the carpet hasn't moved an inch , said Robert . 
'No , said the Phoenix , 'I see it hasn't . 
'But I thought it was a wishing carpet ? 'So it is , said the Phoenix . 
'Then why ? asked the children , altogether . 
'I did tell you , you know , said the Phoenix , 'only you are so fond of listening to the music of your own voices . 
It is , indeed , the most lovely music to each of us , and therefore 'You did tell us WHAT ? interrupted an Exasperated . 
'Why , that the carpet only gives you three wishes a day and YOU'VE HAD THEM . 
There was a heartfelt silence . 
'Then how are we going to get home ? said Cyril , at last . 
'I haven't any idea , replied the Phoenix , kindly . 
'Can I fly out and get you any little thing ? 'How could you carry the money to pay for it ? 'It isn't necessary . 
Birds always take what they want . 
It is not regarded as stealing , except in the case of magpies . 
The children were glad to find they had been right in supposing this to be the case , on the day when they had wings , and had enjoyed somebody else's ripe plums . 
'if it will be so kind , and we can be thinking while it's gone . 
For , curiously enough , there was no door to the tower , and all the windows were far , far too high to be reached by the most adventurous climber . 
It was cold , too , and Anthea shivered . 
'Yes , said Cyril , 'it's like being at the bottom of a well . 
In the other it held a piece of bread . 
And in its beak was a very large pear . 
The pear was juicy , and as good as a very small drink . 
When the meal was over every one felt better , and the question of how to get home was discussed without any disagreeableness . 
'Yes but we shan't be home before mother is , and then father'll take away the carpet and say it's dangerous or something , said Cyril . 
'I DO wish we hadn't come , said Jane . 
And every one else said 'Shut up , except Anthea , who suddenly awoke the Phoenix and said 'Look here , I believe YOU can help us . 
Oh , I do wish you would ! 'I will help you as far as lies in my power , said the Phoenix , at once . 
'What is it you want now ? 'Why , we want to get home , said every one . 
'Oh , said the Phoenix . 
'Ah , hum ! Yes . 
Home , you said ? Meaning ? 'Where we live where we slept last night where the altar is that your egg was hatched on . 
'Oh , there ! said the Phoenix . 
'Well , I'll do my best . 
It fluttered on to the carpet and walked up and down for a few minutes in deep thought . 
Then it drew itself up proudly . 
'I CAN help you , it said . 
'I am almost sure I can help you . 
Unless I am grossly deceived I can help you . 
You won't mind my leaving you for an hour or two ? and without waiting for a reply it soared up through the dimness of the tower into the brightness above . 
'Now , said Cyril , firmly , 'it said an hour or two . 
But I've read about captives and people shut up in dungeons and catacombs and things awaiting release , and I know each moment is an eternity . 
Those people always do something to pass the desperate moments . 
It's no use our trying to tame spiders , because we shan't have time . 
'I HOPE not , said Jane , doubtfully . 
'But we ought to scratch our names on the stones or something . 
'I say , talking of stones , said Robert , 'you see that heap of stones against the wall over in that corner . 
Well , I'm certain there's a hole in the wall there and I believe it's a door . 
Yes , look here the stones are round like an arch in the wall and here's the hole it's all black inside . 
He had walked over to the heap as he spoke and climbed up to it dislodged the top stone of the heap and uncovered a little dark space . 
Next moment every one was helping to pull down the heap of stones , and very soon every one threw off its jacket , for it was warm work . 
He was not an unkind boy when he had leisure to think of such things . 
The arched hole in the wall grew larger and larger . 
The stones must have been there a very long time , for they were covered with moss , and some of them were stuck together by it . 
So it was fairly hard work , as Robert pointed out . 
When the hole reached to about halfway between the top of the arch and the tower , Robert and Cyril let themselves down cautiously on the inside , and lit matches . 
How thankful they felt then that they had a sensible father , who did not forbid them to carry matches , as some boys' fathers do . 
The father of Robert and Cyril only insisted on the matches being of the kind that strike only on the box . 
'It's not a door , it's a sort of tunnel , Robert cried to the girls , after the first match had flared up , flickered , and gone out . 
'Stand off we'll push some more stones down ! They did , amid deep excitement . 
And now the stone heap was almost gone and before them the girls saw the dark archway leading to unknown things . 
All doubts and fears as to getting home were forgotten in this thrilling moment . 
It was like Monte Cristo it was like 'I say , cried Anthea , suddenly , 'come out ! There's always bad air in places that have been shut up . 
It makes your torches go out , and then you die . 
It's called fire damp , I believe . 
Come out , I tell you . 
When Anthea thought the air inside 'must be freshened by now , Cyril led the way into the arch . 
The girls followed , and Robert came last , because Jane refused to tail the procession lest 'something' should come in after her , and catch at her from behind . 
Cyril advanced cautiously , lighting match after match , and peerIng before him . 
'Oh , don't let's go any farther , said Jane , in an agony of reluctance . 
'I'm sure there are snakes , or dens of lions , or something . 
Do let's go back , and come some other time , with candles , and bellows for the fire damp . 
'Let me get in front of you , then , said the stern voice of Robert , from behind . 
'This is exactly the place for buried treasure , and I'm going on , anyway you can stay behind if you like . 
And then , of course , Jane consented to go on . 
So he knelt down and lit a match , and stooping very low he peeped in . 
'There's SOMETHING , he said , and reached out his hand . 
It touched something that felt more like a damp bag of marbles than anything else that Cyril had ever touched . 
'I believe it IS a buried treasure , he cried . 
'There's more of it , a lot more , he said . 
As he pulled the rotten bag gave way , and the gold coins ran and span and jumped and bumped and chinked and clinked on the floor of the dark passage . 
'AND IT WAS THE LAST ! he added . 
There was a moment of desperate silence . 
Then Jane began to cry . 
'Don't , said Anthea , 'don't , Pussy you'll exhaust the air if you cry . 
We can get out all right . 
Every one stood quite still only Anthea cuddled Jane up to her and tried to wipe her eyes in the dark . 
'D DON'T , said Jane 'that's my EAR I'm not crying with my ears . 
'Come , let's get on out , said Robert but that was not so easy , for no one could remember exactly which way they had come . 
It is very difficult to remember things in the dark , unless you have matches with you , and then of course it is quite different , even if you don't strike one . 
All eyes were closed one's eyes always are in the dark , don't you think ? When the whirling feeling stopped , Cyril said 'Earthquakes ! and they all opened their eyes . 
On the mantelpiece stood the Phoenix , waiting with an air of modest yet sterling worth for the thanks of the children . 
'But how DID you do it ? they asked , when every one had thanked the Phoenix again and again . 
'Oh , I just went and got a wish from your friend the Psammead . 
'But , the carpet can't talk , can it ? 'No . 
'Then how 'How did I get the Psammead's address ? I tell you I got it from the carpet . 
'DID it speak then ? 'No , said the Phoenix , thoughtfully , 'it didn't speak , but I gathered my information from something in its manner . 
I was always a singularly observant bird . 
'What owls and goats we were ! said Robert . 
'Look how we've always wanted treasure and now 'Never mind , said Anthea , trying as usual to make the best of it . 
'We'll go back again and get it all , and then we'll give everybody presents . 
It was Cyril who broke in on Robert's almost too technical account of the motor car on which he meant to go to and from school 'There ! he said . 
We can't ever go back . 
We don't know where it is . 
'Don't YOU know ? Jane asked the Phoenix , wistfully . 
'Not in the least , the Phoenix replied , in a tone of amiable regret . 
'Then we've lost the treasure , said Cyril . 
'But we've got the carpet and the Phoenix , said Anthea . 
Unless you are too young to read at all , you will know that the next day must have been Sunday . 
Sunday at , Camden Terrace , Camden Town , was always a very pretty day . 
Father always brought home flowers on Saturday , so that the breakfast table was extra beautiful . 
In November , of course , the flowers were chrysanthemums , yellow and coppery coloured . 
Then there were always sausages on toast for breakfast , and these are rapture , after six days of Kentish Town Road eggs at fourteen a shilling . 
Mother settled herself on the drawing room sofa , and said she could listen quite nicely with her eyes shut . 
The Lamb snugged into the 'armchair corner' of daddy's arm , and the others got into a happy heap on the hearth rug . 
, when a surly solid knock came at the drawing room door . 
It opened an angry inch , and the cook's voice said , 'Please , m' , may I speak to you a moment ? Mother looked at father with a desperate expression . 
Then she put her pretty sparkly Sunday shoes down from the sofa , and stood up in them and sighed . 
'As good fish in the sea , said father , cheerfully , and it was not till much later that the children understood what he meant . 
Mother leaned against the hatstand . 
'Why , what's the matter ? mother said . 
'It's them children , the cook replied , and somehow the children all felt that they had known it from the first . 
They did not remember having done anything extra wrong , but it is so frightfully easy to displease a cook . 
'It's them children there's that there new carpet in their room , covered thick with mud , both sides , beastly yellow mud , and sakes alive knows where they got it . 
'I will speak to the children . 
And you had better think it over , and if you REALLY wish to go , tell me to morrow . 
Next day mother had a quiet talk with cook , and cook said she didn't mind if she stayed on a bit , just to see . 
But meantime the question of the muddy carpet had been gone into thoroughly by father and mother . 
'Till Saturday , said he . 
'Never mind , said Anthea , 'we've got the Phoenix . 
But , as it happened , they hadn't . 
But the children never would . 
The Sunday ended in gloom , which even junket for supper in the blue Dresden bowl could hardly lighten at all . 
Next day the Lamb's cough was worse . 
It certainly seemed very whoopy , and the doctor came in his brougham carriage . 
Every one tried to bear up under the weight of the sorrow which it was to know that the wishing carpet was locked up and the Phoenix mislaid . 
A good deal of time was spent in looking for the Phoenix . 
'It's a bird of its word , said Anthea . 
'I'm sure it's not deserted us . 
But you know it had a most awfully long fly from wherever it was to near Rochester and back , and I expect the poor thing's feeling tired out and wants rest . 
I am sure we may trust it . 
The others tried to feel sure of this , too , but it was hard . 
'She might have told us , said Jane , 'and Panther and I would have cleaned it with tea leaves . 
'She's a cantankerous cat , said Robert . 
'I shan't say what I think about her , said Anthea , primly , 'because it would be evil speaking , lying , and slandering . 
And all the children , even Anthea , agreed that even if she wasn't a blue nosed Bozwoz , they wished cook had never been born . 
Explain it if you can . 
The things that had happened were as follows Sunday . 
Discovery of foreign mud on both sides of the carpet . 
Liquorice put on to boil with aniseed balls in a saucepan . 
Anthea did this , because she thought it would be good for the Lamb's cough . 
The whole thing forgotten , and bottom of saucepan burned out . 
It was the little saucepan lined with white that was kept for the baby's milk . 
A dead mouse found in pantry . 
Fish slice taken to dig grave with . 
By regrettable accident fish slice broken . 
Defence 'The cook oughtn't to keep dead mice in pantries . 
Chopped suet left on kitchen table . 
Robert added chopped soap , but he says he thought the suet was soap too . 
Broke the kitchen window by falling against it during a perfectly fair game of bandits in the area . 
Stopped up grating of kitchen sink with putty and filled sink with water to make a lake to sail paper boats in . 
Went away and left the tap running . 
Kitchen hearthrug and cook's shoes ruined . 
On Saturday the carpet was restored . 
There had been plenty of time during the week to decide where it should be asked to go when they did get it back . 
'But we'll take him out , a ducky darling , said Anthea . 
'We'll take him somewhere where you can't have whooping cough . 
Don't be so silly , Robert . 
If he DOES talk about it no one'll take any notice . 
He's always talking about things he's never seen . 
'It's no use waiting for it , she said , reappearing breathless in the breakfast room . 
'But I know it hasn't deserted us . 
It's a bird of its word . 
'Quite so , said the gentle voice of the Phoenix from beneath the table . 
'I've been here all the time , said the Phoenix , yawning politely behind its claw . 
'If you wanted me you should have recited the ode of invocation it's seven thousand lines long , and written in very pure and beautiful Greek . 
'Couldn't you tell it us in English ? asked Anthea . 
'It's rather long , isn't it ? said Jane , jumping the Lamb on her knee . 
'Couldn't you make a short English version , like Tate and Brady ? 'Oh , come along , do , said Robert , holding out his hand . 
'Come along , good old Phoenix . 
'Good old BEAUTIFUL Phoenix , it corrected shyly . 
'Good old BEAUTIFUL Phoenix , then . 
Come along , come along , said Robert , impatiently , with his hand still held out . 
The Phoenix fluttered at once on to his wrist . 
'Well , now then , said Robert , stepping back on to the carpet with the golden Phoenix on his wrist . 
'You look like the king's falconer , said Jane , sitting down on the carpet with the baby on her lap . 
Robert tried to go on looking like it . 
Cyril and Anthea stood on the carpet . 
'We shall have to get back before dinner , said Cyril , 'or cook will blow the gaff . 
'She hasn't sneaked since Sunday , said Anthea . 
'I'm awfully sorry , cook , said Anthea gently 'it was my fault , and I forgot to tell you about it . 
It got broken when we were telling our fortunes with melted lead , you know , and I meant to tell you . 
'Meant to tell me , replied the cook she was red with anger , and really I don't wonder 'meant to tell ! Well , I mean to tell , too . 
But not at all where cook meant when she said 'out' . 
This confused the truthful Anthea . 
'I warn you , said Cyril , solemnly . 
'Beware , ere yet it be too late . 
Late yourself the little popsey wopsey , said the cook , with angry tenderness . 
'They shan't take it out , no more they shan't . 
And Where did you get that there yellow fowl ? She pointed to the Phoenix . 
Even Anthea saw that unless the cook lost her situation the loss would be theirs . 
'I wish , she said suddenly , 'we were on a sunny southern shore , where there can't be any whooping cough . 
'It's all right , she said 'own Panther's got you . 
Look at the trees , and the sand , and the shells , and the great big tortoises . 
Oh DEAR , how hot it is ! It certainly was for the trusty carpet had laid itself out on a southern shore that was sunny and no mistake , as Robert remarked . 
And it was hotter than you can possibly imagine , unless you think of ovens on a baking day . 
'I'm sure it's much warmer than the seaside in the summer , said Anthea . 
'Mother always lets us go barefoot then . 
So the Lamb's shoes and socks and gaiters came off , and he stood digging his happy naked pink toes into the golden smooth sand . 
'I'm a little white duck dickie , said he 'a little white duck dickie what swims , and splashed quacking into a sandy pool . 
'Let him , said Anthea 'it can't hurt him . 
Well , it's the best I ever dreamed . 
I'll look it up in the dream book to morrow . 
Seaside and trees and a carpet to sit on . 
I never did ! 'Look here , said Cyril , 'it isn't a dream it's real . 
'Ho yes ! said the cook 'they always says that in dreams . 
'It's REAL , I tell you , Robert said , stamping his foot . 
'I'm not going to tell you how it's done , because that's our secret . 
He winked heavily at each of the others in turn . 
'But you wouldn't go away and make that pudding , so we HAD to bring you , and I hope you like it . 
'Good woman , indeed , said the cook 'good woman yourself' Then she saw who it was that had spoken . 
'Well , then , said Cyril , impatiently , 'sit here and see the day now . 
It's a jolly fine day . 
'Look here , said Cyril , 'we must roll the carpet up and hide it , so that we can get at it at any moment . 
And if not , we'll LEAVE HER HERE . 
'Is that being kind to servants and animals , like the clergyman said ? asked Jane . 
'Nor she isn't kind , retorted Cyril . 
'Well anyway , said Anthea , 'the safest thing is to leave the carpet there with her sitting on it . 
Perhaps it'll be a lesson to her , and anyway , if she thinks it's a dream it won't matter what she says when she gets home . 
So the extra coats and hats and mufflers were piled on the carpet . 
Cyril shouldered the well and happy Lamb , the Phoenix perched on Robert's wrist , and 'the party of explorers prepared to enter the interior' . 
The grassy slope was smooth , but under the trees there were tangled creepers with bright , strange shaped flowers , and it was not easy to walk . 
'We ought to have an explorer's axe , said Robert . 
'I shall ask father to give me one for Christmas . 
There were curtains of creepers with scented blossoms hanging from the trees , and brilliant birds darted about quite close to their faces . 
I will take a flight . 
It circled in the air for a moment , and , returning to Robert's wrist , went on , 'There is a path to the left . 
The boldest heart beat more quickly . 
It was a long way back to the carpet . 
'Hadn't we better go back ? said Jane . 
'Go NOW , she said , and her voice trembled a little . 
'Nonsense , Pussy , said Cyril , firmly . 
'Look , there's a goat tied up . 
That shows they don't eat PEOPLE . 
'Let's go on and say we're missionaries , Robert suggested . 
'I shouldn't advise THAT , said the Phoenix , very earnestly . 
'Why not ? 'Well , for one thing , it isn't true , replied the golden bird . 
It was while they stood hesitating on the edge of the clearing that a tall man suddenly came out of one of the huts . 
He had hardly any clothes , and his body all over was a dark and beautiful coppery colour just like the chrysanthemums father had brought home on Saturday . 
In his hand he held a spear . 
The savage looked at the children . 
There was no time for discussion , and no one wanted to discuss anything , anyhow . 
Whether these coppery people were cannibals or not now seemed to matter very little . 
Without an instant's hesitation the four children turned and ran back along the forest path the only pause was Anthea's . 
She stood back to let Cyril pass , because he was carrying the Lamb , who screamed with delight . 
'Gee up , Squirrel gee gee , he shouted , and Cyril did gee up . 
'Stick to it , cried Cyril , breathlessly . 
They did stick to it they tore down the sands they could hear behind them as they ran the patter of feet which they knew , too well , were copper coloured . 
The sands were golden and opal coloured and BARE . 
There were wreaths of tropic seaweed , there were rich tropic shells of the kind you would not buy in the Kentish Town Road under at least fifteen pence a pair . 
There were turtles basking lumpily on the water's edge but no cook , no clothes , and no carpet . 
'On , on ! Into the sea ! gasped Cyril . 
I've heard savages always dirty . 
Their feet were splashing in the warm shallows before his breathless words were ended . 
The calm baby waves were easy to go through . 
It is warm work running for your life in the tropics , and the coolness of the water was delicious . 
They were up to their arm pits now , and Jane was up to her chin . 
'Look ! said the Phoenix . 
'What are they pointing at ? The children turned and there , a little to the west was a head a head they knew , with a crooked cap upon it . 
It was the head of the cook . 
The children hurried towards her as quickly as the water would let them . 
'To to eat ? whispered Jane , as well as she could through the water which the plunging Lamb was dashing in her face with happy fat hands and feet . 
'Hardly , rejoined the bird . 
'Who wants cooks to EAT ? Cooks are ENGAGED , not eaten . 
They wish to engage her . 
'How can you understand what they say ? asked Cyril , doubtfully . 
'It's as easy as kissing your claw , replied the bird . 
'I speak and understand ALL languages , even that of your cook , which is difficult and unpleasing . 
It's quite easy , when you know how it's done . 
It just comes to you . 
I should advise you to beach the carpet and land the cargo the cook , I mean . 
You can take my word for it , the copper coloured ones will not harm you now . 
It is impossible not to take the word of a Phoenix when it tells you to . 
'He says , the Phoenix remarked after some time , 'that they wish to engage your cook permanently . 
'Without a character ? asked Anthea , who had heard her mother speak of such things . 
'They do not wish to engage her as cook , but as queen and queens need not have characters . 
There was a breathless pause . 
'WELL , said Cyril , 'of all the choices ! But there's no accounting for tastes . 
Every one laughed at the idea of the cook's being engaged as queen they could not help it . 
'I do not advise laughter , warned the Phoenix , ruffling out his golden feathers , which were extremely wet . 
'And it's not their own choice . 
'That's the white crown , it said 'at least , it's nearly white very white indeed compared to the colour THEY are and anyway , it's quite white enough . 
'Look here ! said he , 'these brown people want you to be their queen . 
They're only savages , and they don't know any better . 
'No , you don't , said the cook , in firm , undoubting tones . 
'I've always wanted to be the Queen , God bless her ! and I always thought what a good one I should make and now I'm going to . 
IF it's only in a dream , it's well worth while . 
'There you hear , said Cyril . 
'You're in for a precious soft thing , so mind you're a good queen , cook . 
It's more than you'd any right to expect , but long may you reign . 
'What ! all them lovely bokays for me ! exclaimed the enraptured cook . 
'Well , this here is something LIKE a dream , I must say . 
It was a dance such as you have never seen it made the children feel almost sure that the cook was right , and that they were all in a dream . 
The new queen , with her white crown cap all on one side , clapped wildly . 
'Brayvo ! she cried , 'brayvo ! It's better than the Albert Edward Music hall in the Kentish Town Road . 
'The finest shall be yours , O queen , said they . 
'Well so long ! said the cook , getting heavily on to her feet , when the Phoenix had translated this request . 
'No more kitchens and attics for me , thank you . 
I'm off to my royal palace , I am and I only wish this here dream would keep on for ever and ever . 
'WELL ! said Cyril , 'I suppose she's all right , but they don't seem to count us for much , one way or the other . 
'Oh , said the Phoenix , 'they think you're merely dreams . 
The prophecy said that the queen would arise from the waves with a white crown and surrounded by white dream children . 
That's about what they think YOU are ! 'And what about dinner ? said Robert , abruptly . 
'There won't be any dinner , with no cook and no pudding basin , Anthea reminded him 'but there's always bread and butter . 
'Let's get home , said Cyril . 
The Lamb was furiously unwishful to be dressed in his warm clothes again , but Anthea and Jane managed it , by force disguised as coaxing , and he never once whooping coughed . 
Then every one put on its own warm things and took its place on the carpet . 
A sound of uncouth singing still came from beyond the trees where the copper coloured natives were crooning songs of admiration and respect to their white crowned queen . 
And at that very moment Eliza opened the door and said 'Cook's gone ! I can't find her anywhere , and there's no dinner ready . 
She hasn't taken her box nor yet her outdoor things . 
You'll have to put up with the cold bacon for your dinners and what on earth you've got your outdoor things on for I don't know . 
And then I'll slip out and see if they know anything about her at the police station . 
But nobody ever knew anything about the cook any more , except the children , and , later , one other person . 
Mother was so upset at losing the cook , and so anxious about her , that Anthea felt most miserable , as though she had done something very wrong indeed . 
She woke several times in the night , and at last decided that she would ask the Phoenix to let her tell her mother all about it . 
The Lamb never whooping coughed once all that Sunday , and mother and father said what good medicine it was that the doctor had given him . 
But the children knew that it was the southern shore where you can't have whooping cough that had cured him . 
The Lamb babbled of coloured sand and water , but no one took any notice of that . 
He often talked of things that hadn't happened . 
It was on Monday morning , very early indeed , that Anthea woke and suddenly made up her mind . 
, sat down on the carpet , and with a beating heart wished herself on the sunny shore where you can't have whooping cough , and next moment there she was . 
The sand was splendidly warm . 
She could feel it at once , even through the carpet . 
'Well , here you are again , said the cook , directly she saw Anthea . 
She wore a flower wreath on her hair , and copper coloured boys were fanning her with peacock's feathers . 
'They've got the cap put away , she said . 
'They seem to think a lot of it . 
Never saw one before , I expect . 
'Are you happy ? asked Anthea , panting the sight of the cook as queen quite took her breath away . 
'I believe you , my dear , said the cook , heartily . 
'Nothing to do unless you want to . 
But I'm getting rested now . 
'But can you talk to them ? 'Lor' love a duck , yes ! the happy cook queen replied 'it's quite easy to pick up . 
I always thought I should be quick at foreign languages . 
I've taught them to understand dinner , and I want a drink , and You leave me be , already . 
'Then you don't want anything ? Anthea asked earnestly and anxiously . 
'Not me , miss except if you'd only go away . 
I'm afraid of me waking up with that bell a going if you keep on stopping here a talking to me . 
Long as this here dream keeps up I'm as happy as a queen . 
'Goodbye , then , said Anthea , gaily , for her conscience was clear now . 
She hurried into the wood , threw herself on the ground , and said 'Home' and there she was , rolled in the carpet on the nursery floor . 
'SHE'S all right , anyhow , said Anthea , and went back to bed . 
But mother will never believe me when I tell her . 
The story is indeed a little difficult to believe . 
Still , you might try . 
CHAPTER TWO BAZAARS Mother was really a great dear . 
She was pretty and she was loving , and most frightfully good when you were ill , and always kind , and almost always just . 
That is , she was just when she understood things . 
But of course she did not always understand things . 
No one understands everything , and mothers are not angels , though a good many of them come pretty near it . 
The children knew that mother always WANTED to do what was best for them , even if she was not clever enough to know exactly what was the best . 
That was why all of them , but much more particularly Anthea , felt rather uncomfortable at keeping the great secret from her of the wishing carpet and the Phoenix . 
'And she won't , so you're quite safe . 
I hope I shan't grow up a LIAR . 
Mother said , 'Of course , dearie , and Anthea started swimming through a sea of x's and y's and z's . 
Mother was sitting at the mahogany bureau writing letters . 
'Mother dear , said Anthea . 
'Yes , love a duck , said mother . 
'About cook , said Anthea . 
I know where she is . 
'Do you , dear ? said mother . 
'Well , I wouldn't take her back after the way she has behaved . 
'It's not her fault , said Anthea . 
'May I tell you about it from the beginning ? Mother laid down her pen , and her nice face had a resigned expression . 
As you know , a resigned expression always makes you want not to tell anybody anything . 
I've got a lot of letters to write . 
I'm going to Bournemouth to morrow with the Lamb and there's that bazaar . 
Anthea went back to x y z , and mother's pen scratched busily . 
'I promised them , and I've no time to go to Liberty's now . 
'It shall , said Anthea , 'but , mother 'Well , dear , said mother , a little impatiently , for she had taken up her pen again . 
They thought her cap was a crown , and 'Darling one , said mother , 'you know I love to hear the things you make up but I am most awfully busy . 
'But it's true , said Anthea , desperately . 
'You shouldn't say that , my sweet , said mother , gently . 
And then Anthea knew it was hopeless . 
'Are you going away for long ? asked Anthea . 
'I've got a cold , said mother , 'and daddy's anxious about it , and the Lamb's cough . 
'He hasn't coughed since Saturday , the Lamb's eldest sister interrupted . 
'I wish I could think so , mother replied . 
'And daddy's got to go to Scotland . 
I do hope you'll be good children . 
'We will , we will , said Anthea , fervently . 
'When's the bazaar ? 'On Saturday , said mother , 'at the schools . 
Oh , don't talk any more , there's a treasure ! My head's going round , and I've forgotten how to spell whooping cough . 
The Phoenix begged to be excused . 
It said it wanted a week's rest , and asked that it might not be disturbed . 
And it hid its golden gleaming self , and nobody could find it . 
So that when Wednesday afternoon brought an unexpected holiday , and every one decided to go somewhere on the carpet , the journey had to be undertaken without the Phoenix . 
'Let's go and see the Lamb , said Jane . 
But every one was agreed that if they appeared suddenly in Bournemouth it would frighten mother out of her wits , if not into a fit . 
So they sat on the carpet , and thought and thought and thought till they almost began to squint . 
'Look here , said Cyril , 'I know . 
Please carpet , take us somewhere where we can see the Lamb and mother and no one can see us . 
'Except the Lamb , said Jane , quickly . 
'The carpet's deceived us , said Robert , gloomily 'mother will see us directly she turns her head . 
But the faithful carpet had not deceived them . 
It was horrible to have mother looking straight at them , and her face keeping the same , just as though they weren't there . 
'I don't like it , said Jane . 
'Mother never looked at us like that before . 
Just as if she didn't love us as if we were somebody else's children , and not very nice ones either as if she didn't care whether she saw us or not . 
'It is horrid , said Anthea , almost in tears . 
'I love you , Panty I love you and you , and you , and you , cried the Lamb . 
It was a delicious moment . 
Even the boys thumped their baby brother joyously on the back . 
Then Anthea glanced at mother and mother's face was a pale sea green colour , and she was staring at the Lamb as if she thought he had gone mad . 
And , indeed , that was exactly what she did think . 
'My Lamb , my precious ! Come to mother , she cried , and jumped up and ran to the baby . 
She was so quick that the invisible children had to leap back , or she would have felt them and to feel what you can't see is the worst sort of ghost feeling . 
Mother picked up the Lamb and hurried away from the pinewood . 
'Let's go home , said Jane , after a miserable silence . 
'It feels just exactly as if mother didn't love us . 
But they couldn't bear to go home till they had seen mother meet another lady , and knew that she was safe . 
When mother seemed safe the children returned to the carpet , and said 'Home' and home they went . 
'I don't care about being invisible myself , said Cyril , 'at least , not with my own family . 
It would be different if you were a prince , or a bandit , or a burglar . 
And now the thoughts of all four dwelt fondly on the dear greenish face of mother . 
'I wish she hadn't gone away , said Jane 'the house is simply beastly without her . 
'I think we ought to do what she said , Anthea put in . 
'I saw something in a book the other day about the wishes of the departed being sacred . 
'That means when they've departed farther off , said Cyril . 
'India's coral or Greenland's icy , don't you know not Bournemouth . 
Besides , we don't know what her wishes are . 
'She SAID' Anthea was very much inclined to cry 'she said , Get Indian things for my bazaar but I know she thought we couldn't , and it was only play . 
'Let's get them all the same , said Robert . 
'We'll go the first thing on Saturday morning . 
And on Saturday morning , the first thing , they went . 
There was no finding the Phoenix , so they sat on the beautiful wishing carpet , and said 'We want Indian things for mother's bazaar . 
They rolled up the carpet and Robert carried it , and they walked bodily into the town . 
It was very warm , and once more they had to take off their London in November coats , and carry them on their arms . 
The streets were narrow and strange , and the clothes of the people in the streets were stranger and the talk of the people was strangest of all . 
'I can't understand a word , said Cyril . 
'How on earth are we to ask for things for our bazaar ? 'And they're poor people , too , said Jane 'I'm sure they are . 
What we want is a rajah or something . 
Robert was beginning to unroll the carpet , but the others stopped him , imploring him not to waste a wish . 
'We asked the carpet to take us where we could get Indian things for bazaars , said Anthea , 'and it will . 
Just as she finished speaking a very brown gentleman in a turban came up to them and bowed deeply . 
He spoke , and they thrilled to the sound of English words . 
'My ranee , she think you very nice childs . 
She asks do you lose yourselves , and do you desire to sell carpet ? She see you from her palkee . 
I am not going to describe the ranee's palace , because I really have never seen the palace of a ranee , and Mr Kipling has . 
So you can read about it in his books . 
But I know exactly what happened there . 
And the brown , turbaned gentleman stood behind a sort of carved screen , and interpreted what the children said and what the queen said . 
And when the queen asked to buy the carpet , the children said 'No . 
'Why ? asked the ranee . 
And Jane briefly said why , and the interpreter interpreted . 
The queen spoke , and then the interpreter said 'My mistress says it is a good story , and you tell it all through without thought of time . 
It made a long story , especially as it had all to be told twice once by Cyril and once by the interpreter . 
'OH , how lovely ! cried Jane and Anthea . 
Tell her I want them to sell again , and give the money to buy clothes for poor people who haven't any . 
'Tell him he has my leave to sell my gift and clothe the naked with its price , said the queen , when this was translated . 
But Cyril said very firmly , 'No , thank you . 
The things have got to be sold to day at our bazaar , and no one would buy a turquoise necklace at an English bazaar . 
They'd think it was sham , or else they'd want to know where we got it . 
So then the queen sent out for little pretty things , and her servants piled the carpet with them . 
'I must needs lend you an elephant to carry them away , she said , laughing . 
But Anthea said , 'If the queen will lend us a comb and let us wash our hands and faces , she shall see a magic thing . 
We and the carpet and all these brass trays and pots and carved things and stuffs and things will just vanish away like smoke . 
The queen clapped her hands at this idea , and lent the children a sandal wood comb inlaid with ivory lotus flowers . 
And they washed their faces and hands in silver basins . 
Then Cyril made a very polite farewell speech , and quite suddenly he ended with the words 'And I wish we were at the bazaar at our schools . 
And of course they were . 
And the queen and her ladies were left with their mouths open , gazing at the bare space on the inlaid marble floor where the carpet and the children had been . 
Outside , the winter dusk was stealing down among the Camden Town houses . 
'I'm glad we got washed in India , said Cyril . 
'We should have been awfully late if we'd had to go home and scrub . 
'Besides , Robert said , 'it's much warmer washing in India . 
I shouldn't mind it so much if we lived there . 
The thoughtful carpet had dumped the children down in a dusky space behind the point where the corners of two stalls met . 
The floor was littered with string and brown paper , and baskets and boxes were heaped along the wall . 
The children crept out under a stall covered with all sorts of table covers and mats and things , embroidered beautifully by idle ladies with no real work to do . 
They got out at the end , displacing a sideboard cloth adorned with a tasteful pattern of blue geraniums . 
The girls got out unobserved , so did Cyril but Robert , as he cautiously emerged , was actually walked on by Mrs Biddle , who kept the stall . 
Her large , solid foot stood firmly on the small , solid hand of Robert and who can blame Robert if he DID yell a little ? A crowd instantly collected . 
Yells are very unusual at bazaars , and every one was intensely interested . 
When she became aware that she really had hurt him , she grew very angry indeed . 
When people have hurt other people by accident , the one who does the hurting is always much the angriest . 
'I'm very sorry , I'm sure , said Mrs Biddle but she spoke more in anger than in sorrow . 
'Come out ! whatever do you mean by creeping about under the stalls , like earwigs ? 'We were looking at the things in the corner . 
'Such nasty , prying ways , said Mrs Biddle , 'will never make you successful in life . 
There's nothing there but packing and dust . 
'Oh , isn't there ! said Jane . 
'Little girl , don't be rude , said Mrs Biddle , flushing violet . 
No one would believe it and if they did , and wrote to thank mother , she would think well , goodness only knew what she would think . 
The other three children felt the same . 
'I should like to see them , said a very nice lady , whose friends had disappointed her , and who hoped that these might be belated contributions to her poorly furnished stall . 
She looked inquiringly at Robert , who said , 'With pleasure , don't mention it , and dived back under Mrs Biddle's stall . 
'I wonder you encourage such behaviour , said Mrs Biddle . 
'I always speak my mind , as you know , Miss Peasmarsh and , I must say , I am surprised . 
She turned to the crowd . 
'There is no entertainment here , she said sternly . 
'A very naughty little boy has accidentally hurt himself , but only slightly . 
Will you please disperse ? It will only encourage him in naughtiness if he finds himself the centre of attraction . 
Anthea , speechless with fury , heard a nice curate say , 'Poor little beggar ! and loved the curate at once and for ever . 
Then Robert wriggled out from under the stall with some Benares brass and some inlaid sandalwood boxes . 
'Liberty ! cried Miss Peasmarsh . 
'Then Charles has not forgotten , after all . 
'Excuse me , said Mrs Biddle , with fierce politeness , 'these objects are deposited behind MY stall . 
Some unknown donor who does good by stealth , and would blush if he could hear you claim the things . 
Of course they are for me . 
'My stall touches yours at the corner , said poor Miss Peasmarsh , timidly , 'and my cousin did promise The children sidled away from the unequal contest and mingled with the crowd . 
Their feelings were too deep for words till at last Robert said 'That stiff starched PIG ! 'And after all our trouble ! I'm hoarse with gassing to that trousered lady in India . 
'The pig lady's very , very nasty , said Jane . 
It was Anthea who said , in a hurried undertone , 'She isn't very nice , and Miss Peasmarsh is pretty and nice too . 
Who's got a pencil ? it was a long crawl , under three stalls , but Anthea did it . 
A large piece of pale blue paper lay among the rubbish in the corner . 
'I don't understand about that blue paper , said Mrs Biddle . 
'It looks to me like the work of a lunatic . 
And saying you were nice and pretty ! It's not the work of a sane person . 
Anthea and Jane begged Miss Peasmarsh to let them help her to sell the things , because it was their brother who had announced the good news that the things had come . 
Miss Peasmarsh was very willing , for now her stall , that had been SO neglected , was surrounded by people who wanted to buy , and she was glad to be helped . 
The children noted that Mrs Biddle had not more to do in the way of selling than she could manage quite well . 
I hope they were not glad for you should forgive your enemies , even if they walk on your hands and then say it is all your naughty fault . 
But I am afraid they were not so sorry as they ought to have been . 
It took some time to arrange the things on the stall . 
The carpet was spread over it , and the dark colours showed up the brass and silver and ivory things . 
They had a beautiful tea , suddenly presented to them by the nice curate , and Miss Peasmarsh joined them before they had had more than three cakes each . 
It was a merry party , and the curate was extremely pleasant to every one , 'even to Miss Peasmarsh , as Jane said afterwards . 
'There's nothing to go back for , said Miss Peasmarsh gaily 'thanks to you dear children we've sold everything . 
'There there's the carpet , said Cyril . 
'Oh , said Miss Peasmarsh , radiantly , 'don't bother about the carpet . 
Mrs Biddle gave me ten shillings for it . 
She said it would do for her servant's bedroom . 
'Why , said Jane , 'her servants don't HAVE carpets . 
We had cook from her , and she told us so . 
But the others were struck dumb . 
How could they say , 'The carpet is ours ! For who brings carpets to bazaars ? The children were now thoroughly wretched . 
The girls hugged Miss Peasmarsh , and as they went away they heard the curate say 'Jolly little kids , yes , but what about you will let it be directly after Easter . 
And the curate said 'I hope I am going to take a trip to the Fortunate Islands . 
'I wish we could take you on the wishing carpet , said Jane . 
'Thank you , said the curate , 'but I'm afraid I can't wait for that . 
I must go to the Fortunate Islands before they make me a bishop . 
I should have no time afterwards . 
'I've always thought I should marry a bishop , said Jane 'his aprons would come in so useful . 
Wouldn't YOU like to marry a bishop , Miss Peasmarsh ? It was then that they dragged her away . 
As it was Robert's hand that Mrs Biddle had walked on , it was decided that he had better not recall the incident to her mind , and so make her angry again . 
Anthea and Jane had helped to sell things at the rival stall , so they were not likely to be popular . 
Would you sell it to us ? We would give you 'Certainly not , said Mrs Biddle . 
'Go away , little boy . 
There was that in her tone which showed Cyril , all too plainly , the hopelessness of persuasion . 
He found the others and said 'It's no use she's like a lioness robbed of its puppies . 
We must watch where it goes and Anthea , I don't care what you say . 
It would be a sort of forlorn hope rescue party heroic and daring and dashing , and not wrong at all . 
The children still wandered among the gay crowd but there was no pleasure there for them any more . 
The chorus of singing birds sounded just like glass tubes being blown through water , and the phonograph simply made a horrid noise , so that you could hardly hear yourself speak . 
And the people were buying things they couldn't possibly want , and it all seemed very stupid . 
And Mrs Biddle had bought the wishing carpet for ten shillings . 
They found a corner within sight of the carpet , and there they waited miserably , till it was far beyond their proper bedtime . 
And when it was ten the people who had bought things went away , but the people who had been selling stayed to count up their money . 
'And to jaw about it , said Robert . 
'I'll never go to another bazaar as long as ever I live . 
My hand is swollen as big as a pudding . 
I expect the nails in her horrible boots were poisoned . 
Just then some one who seemed to have a right to interfere said 'Everything is over now you had better go home . 
The children , now too desperate to care for mud or appearances , hung on behind the cab till it reached Mrs Biddle's house . 
When she and the carpet had gone in and the door was shut Anthea said 'Don't let's burgle I mean do daring and dashing rescue acts till we've given her a chance . 
Let's ring and ask to see her . 
So they knocked and rang , and a scared looking parlourmaid opened the front door . 
While they were asking for Mrs Biddle they saw her . 
She was in the dining room , and she had already pushed back the table and spread out the carpet to see how it looked on the floor . 
'I knew she didn't want it for her servants' bedroom , Jane muttered . 
Anthea walked straight past the uncomfortable parlourmaid , and the others followed her . 
Mrs Biddle had her back to them , and was smoothing down the carpet with the same boot that had trampled on the hand of Robert . 
So that they were all in the room , and Cyril , with great presence of mind , had shut the room door before she saw them . 
'Who is it , Jane ? she asked in a sour voice and then turning suddenly , she saw who it was . 
Once more her face grew violet a deep , dark violet . 
'You wicked daring little things ! she cried , 'how dare you come here ? At this time of night , too . 
Be off , or I'll send for the police . 
'Don't be angry , said Anthea , soothingly , 'we only wanted to ask you to let us have the carpet . 
We have quite twelve shillings between us , and 'How DARE you ? cried Mrs Biddle , and her voice shook with angriness . 
'You do look horrid , said Jane suddenly . 
Mrs Biddle actually stamped that booted foot of hers . 
'You rude , barefaced child ! she said . 
Anthea almost shook Jane but Jane pushed forward in spite of her . 
'It really IS our nursery carpet , she said , 'you ask ANY ONE if it isn't . 
'Let's wish ourselves home , said Cyril in a whisper . 
'No go , Robert whispered back , 'she'd be there too , and raving mad as likely as not . 
Horrid thing , I hate her ! 'I wish Mrs Biddle was in an angelic good temper , cried Anthea , suddenly . 
'It's worth trying , she said to herself . 
Mrs Biddle's face grew from purple to violet , and from violet to mauve , and from mauve to pink . 
Then she smiled quite a jolly smile . 
'Why , so I am ! she said , 'what a funny idea ! Why shouldn't I be in a good temper , my dears . 
Once more the carpet had done its work , and not on Mrs Biddle alone . 
The children felt suddenly good and happy . 
'You're a jolly good sort , said Cyril . 
I'm sorry we vexed you at the bazaar to day . 
'Not another word , said the changed Mrs Biddle . 
'Of course you shall have the carpet , my dears , if you've taken such a fancy to it . 
No , no I won't have more than the ten shillings I paid . 
'It does seem hard to ask you for it after you bought it at the bazaar , said Anthea 'but it really IS our nursery carpet . 
It got to the bazaar by mistake , with some other things . 
'Did it really , now ? How vexing ! said Mrs Biddle , kindly . 
'Well , my dears , I can very well give the extra ten shillings so you take your carpet and we'll say no more about it . 
Have a piece of cake before you go ! I'm so sorry I stepped on your hand , my boy . 
Is it all right now ? 'Yes , thank you , said Robert . 
'I say , you ARE good . 
'Not at all , said Mrs Biddle , heartily . 
'I'm delighted to be able to give any little pleasure to you dear children . 
And she helped them to roll up the carpet , and the boys carried it away between them . 
'You ARE a dear , said Anthea , and she and Mrs Biddle kissed each other heartily . 
'WELL ! said Cyril as they went along the street . 
'Perhaps it IS real , said Anthea , 'only it was covered up with crossness and tiredness and things , and the carpet took them away . 
'I hope it'll keep them away , said Jane 'she isn't ugly at all when she laughs . 
The carpet has done many wonders in its day but the case of Mrs Biddle is , I think , the most wonderful . 
CHAPTER THE TEMPLE 'I wish we could find the Phoenix , said Jane . 
'It's much better company than the carpet . 
'Beastly ungrateful , little kids are , said Cyril . 
'No , I'm not only the carpet never says anything , and it's so helpless . 
It doesn't seem able to take care of itself . 
It gets sold , and taken into the sea , and things like that . 
You wouldn't catch the Phoenix getting sold . 
It was two days after the bazaar . 
Every one was a little cross some days are like that , usually Mondays , by the way . 
And this was a Monday . 
'I shouldn't wonder if your precious Phoenix had gone off for good , said Cyril 'and I don't know that I blame it . 
Look at the weather ! 'It's not worth looking at , said Robert . 
'The Phoenix hasn't gone I'm sure it hasn't , said Anthea . 
'I'll have another look for it . 
'Where on earth HAVE you been ? asked Anthea . 
'I've looked everywhere for you . 
'Not EVERYWHERE , replied the bird , 'because you did not look in the place where I was . 
Confess that that hallowed spot was overlooked by you . 
'WHAT hallowed spot ? asked Cyril , a little impatiently , for time was hastening on , and the wishing carpet still idle . 
'The spot , said the Phoenix , 'which I hallowed by my golden presence was the Lutron . 
'The WHAT ? 'The bath the place of washing . 
'I'm sure you weren't , said Jane . 
'I looked there three times and moved all the towels . 
'Oh , you mean the cylinder , said Cyril 'it HAS rather a comforting feel , this weather . 
And now where shall we go ? And then , of course , the usual discussion broke out as to where they should go and what they should do . 
And naturally , every one wanted to do something that the others did not care about . 
'I am the eldest , Cyril remarked , 'let's go to the North Pole . 
'This weather ! Likely ! Robert rejoined . 
'Let's go to the Equator . 
'I think the diamond mines of Golconda would be nice , said Anthea 'don't you agree , Jane ? 'No , I don't , retorted Jane , 'I don't agree with you . 
I don't agree with anybody . 
The Phoenix raised a warning claw . 
'If you cannot agree among yourselves , I fear I shall have to leave you , it said . 
'Well , where shall we go ? You decide ! said all . 
'If I were you , said the bird , thoughtfully , 'I should give the carpet a rest . 
Besides , you'll lose the use of your legs if you go everywhere by carpet . 
Can't you take me out and explain your ugly city to me ? 'We will if it clears up , said Robert , without enthusiasm . 
'Just look at the rain . 
And why should we give the carpet a rest ? 'Are you greedy and grasping , and heartless and selfish ? asked the bird , sharply . 
'NO ! said Robert , with indignation . 
'Well then ! said the Phoenix . 
'And as to the rain well , I am not fond of rain myself . 
If the sun knew I was here he's very fond of shining on me because I look so bright and golden . 
He always says I repay a little attention . 
Haven't you some form of words suitable for use in wet weather ? 'There's Rain , rain , go away , said Anthea 'but it never DOES go . 
'Perhaps you don't say the invocation properly , said the bird . 
'Rain , rain , go away , Come again another day , Little baby wants to play , said Anthea . 
'That's quite wrong and if you say it in that sort of dull way , I can quite understand the rain not taking any notice . 
'It's like it , said the more cautious Robert . 
'I was obliged to put in lovely , said the Phoenix , modestly , 'to make the line long enough . 
The rain hesitated a moment and then went away . 
People said afterwards that there had not been such sunshine in December for years and years and years . 
'And now , said the bird , 'we will go out into the city , and you shall take me to see one of my temples . 
'Your temples ? 'I gather from the carpet that I have many temples in this land . 
'I don't see how you CAN find anything out from it , said Jane 'it never speaks . 
'All the same , you can pick up things from a carpet , said the bird 'I've seen YOU do it . 
And I have picked up several pieces of information in this way . 
'You mean the fire insurance office , said Robert . 
'It's not really a temple , and they don't 'Excuse me , said the Phoenix , coldly , 'you are wholly misinformed . 
It IS a temple , and they do . 
'Don't let's waste the sunshine , said Anthea 'we might argue as we go along , to save time . 
So the Phoenix consented to make itself a nest in the breast of Robert's Norfolk jacket , and they all went out into the splendid sunshine . 
It was a delicious ride , and the children felt how lucky they were to have had the money to pay for it . 
They went with the tram as far as it went , and when it did not go any farther they stopped too , and got off . 
Of course , he was quite mistaken , as Robert told him at the time , and afterwards Robert did not forbear to remind his brother how he had said so . 
And the printers and binders made very personal remarks , advising Jane to get her hair cut , and inquiring where Anthea had bought that hat . 
Jane and Anthea scorned to reply , and Cyril and Robert found that they were hardly a match for the rough crowd . 
They could think of nothing nasty enough to say . 
Anthea drew a long breath . 
'How awful ! she said . 
'I didn't know there were such people , except in books . 
'It was a bit thick but it's partly you girls' fault , coming out in those flashy coats . 
Thank you very much , lidy , for bringin' 'im home to roost . 
Two large and ragged boys were crouched amid the dark shadows of the stairs . 
They were much larger than Robert and Cyril , and one of them had snatched the Phoenix away and was holding it high above their heads . 
'Give me that bird , said Cyril , sternly 'it's ours . 
'Good arternoon , and thankin' you , the boy went on , with maddening mockery . 
'Sorry I can't give yer tuppence for yer trouble but I've 'ad to spend my fortune advertising for my vallyable bird in all the newspapers . 
You can call for the reward next year . 
'Look out , Ike , said his friend , a little anxiously 'it 'ave a beak on it . 
'It's other parties as'll have the Beak on to 'em presently , said Ike , darkly , 'if they come a trying to lay claims on my Poll parrot . 
You just shut up , Urb . 
Now then , you four little gells , get out er this . 
'Little girls ! cried Robert . 
'I'll little girl you ! He sprang up three stairs and hit out . 
Cyril felt himself growing pale with rage , and with the effort of screwing up his brain to make it clever enough to think of some way of being even with those boys . 
Anthea and Jane were as angry as the boys , but it made them want to cry . 
Yet it was Anthea who said 'Do , PLEASE , let us have the bird . 
'Dew , PLEASE , get along and leave us an' our bird alone . 
'If you don't , said Anthea , 'I shall fetch the police . 
'You better ! said he who was named Urb . 
'Say , Ike , you twist the bloomin' pigeon's neck he ain't worth tuppence . 
'Oh , no , cried Jane , 'don't hurt it . 
Oh , don't it is such a pet . 
'I won't hurt it , said Ike 'I'm 'shamed of you , Urb , for to think of such a thing . 
Arf a shiner , miss , and the bird is yours for life . 
'Half a WHAT ? asked Anthea . 
'Arf a shiner , quid , thick 'un half a sov , then . 
'I haven't got it and , besides , it's OUR bird , said Anthea . 
'Oh , don't talk to him , said Cyril and then Jane said suddenly 'Phoenix dear Phoenix , we can't do anything . 
'With pleasure , said the Phoenix and Ike nearly dropped it in his amazement . 
'I say , it do talk , suthin' like , said he . 
'Youths , said the Phoenix , 'sons of misfortune , hear my words . 
'My eyes ! said Ike . 
'Look out , Ike , said Urb , 'you'll throttle the joker and I see at wunst 'e was wuth 'is weight in flimsies . 
'Hearken , O Eikonoclastes , despiser of sacred images and thou , Urbanus , dweller in the sordid city . 
Forbear this adventure lest a worse thing befall . 
'Luv' us ! said Ike , 'ain't it been taught its schoolin' just ! 'Restore me to my young acolytes and escape unscathed . 
Retain me and 'They must ha' got all this up , case the Polly got pinched , said Ike . 
'Lor' lumme , the artfulness of them young uns ! 'I say , slosh 'em in the geseech and get clear off with the swag's wot I say , urged Herbert . 
'Right O , said Isaac . 
'Forbear , repeated the Phoenix , sternly . 
'Who pinched the click off of the old bloke in Aldermanbury ? it added , in a changed tone . 
'Who sneaked the nose rag out of the young gell's 'and in Bell Court ? Who 'Stow it , said Ike . 
'You ! ugh ! yah ! leave go of me . 
Bash him off , Urb 'e'll have my bloomin' eyes outer my ed . 
There were howls , a scuffle , a flutter Ike and Urb fled up the stairs , and the Phoenix swept out through the doorway . 
'I could have , of course , said the bird , 'but I didn't think it would be dignified to allow myself to get warm about a little thing like that . 
The Fates , after all , have not been illiberal to me . 
I have a good many friends among the London sparrows , and I have a beak and claws . 
These happenings had somewhat shaken the adventurous temper of the children , and the Phoenix had to exert its golden self to hearten them up . 
'Fire ? For altars , I suppose ? I don't know , said Robert he was beginning to feel shy , and that always made him rather cross . 
'Oh , yes , you do , Cyril contradicted . 
'When people's houses are burnt down the Phoenix gives them new houses . 
Father told me I asked him . 
'That is to maintain my priests , said the bird , 'who , in the hour of affliction , heal sorrows and rebuild houses . 
Lead on inquire for the High Priest . 
I will not break upon them too suddenly in all my glory . 
Noble and honour deserving are they who make as nought the evil deeds of the lame footed and unpleasing Hephaestus . 
'I don't know what you're talking about , and I wish you wouldn't muddle us with new names . 
Nobody does it not as a deed , you know , Cyril explained . 
'If they did the Phoenix wouldn't help them , because its a crime to set fire to things . 
Arsenic , or something they call it , because it's as bad as poisoning people . 
The Phoenix wouldn't help THEM father told me it wouldn't . 
'My priests do well , said the Phoenix . 
'I don't know what to say , said Cyril and the Others said the same . 
'Ask for the High Priest , said the Phoenix . 
'Say that you have a secret to unfold that concerns my worship , and he will lead you to the innermost sanctuary . 
An unpleasing representation of the Phoenix in brown pottery disfigured one wall . 
There were counters and desks of mahogany and brass , and clerks bent over the desks and walked behind the counters . 
There was a great clock over an inner doorway . 
'Inquire for the High Priest , whispered the Phoenix . 
An attentive clerk in decent black , who controlled his mouth but not his eyebrows , now came towards them . 
'Get along with you , said the young man . 
An elder man , also decent in black coat , advanced . 
'He's a Masonic High Priest , you know . 
, and the children were left there to look on and be looked on by all the gentlemen at the mahogany desks . 
Anthea and Jane thought that they looked kind . 
The boys thought they stared , and that it was like their cheek . 
was out , but that Mr Here a really delightful gentleman appeared . 
Yet it was a difficult thing to explain . 
'What is it ? he asked . 
'Mr' he named the name which I will never reveal 'is out . 
Can I do anything ? 'Inner sanctuary , murmured the Phoenix . 
'I beg your pardon , said the nice gentleman , who thought it was Robert who had spoken . 
'We have something to tell you , said Cyril , 'but' he glanced at the porter , who was lingering much nearer than he need have done 'this is a very public place . 
'Come upstairs then , he said , and led the way up a wide and beautiful staircase . 
Anthea says the stairs were of white marble , but I am not sure . 
The nice gentleman led them into a room where the chairs , and even the tables , were covered with reddish leather . 
He looked at the children inquiringly . 
'Don't be frightened , he said 'tell me exactly what you want . 
'May I shut the door ? asked Cyril . 
The gentleman looked surprised , but he shut the door . 
'Now , said Cyril , firmly , 'I know you'll be awfully surprised , and you'll think it's not true and we are lunatics but we aren't , and it is . 
Robert's got something inside his Norfolk that's Robert , he's my young brother . 
Now don't be upset and have a fit or anything sir . 
'What an extraordinarily fine bird ! he went on . 
'I don't think I ever saw one just like it . 
'I should think not , said the Phoenix , with pardonable pride . 
I am no parrot' its beak curved scornfully 'I am the one and only Phoenix , and I demand the homage of my High Priest . 
'My dears , he said , 'the weather is unusually warm for the time of year , and I don't feel quite myself . 
'So it did , sir , said Cyril , 'and so did you . 
'Mackenzie , said the gentleman , 'you see that golden bird ? 'Yes , sir . 
The other breathed a sigh of relief . 
'It IS real , then ? 'Yes , sir , of course , sir . 
You take it in your hand , sir , said the porter , sympathetically , and reached out his hand to the Phoenix , who shrank back on toes curved with agitated indignation . 
'Forbear ! it cried 'how dare you seek to lay hands on me ? The porter saluted . 
'Beg pardon , sir , he said , 'I thought you was a bird . 
'I AM a bird THE bird the Phoenix . 
'Of course you are , sir , said the porter . 
'I see that the first minute , directly I got my breath , sir . 
'That will do , said the gentleman . 
'Ask Mr Wilson and Mr Sterry to step up here for a moment , please . 
Mr Sterry and Mr Wilson were in their turn overcome by amazement quickly followed by conviction . 
'We ought to have some sort of ceremony , said the nicest gentleman , anxiously . 
'There isn't time to summon the directors and shareholders we might do that tomorrow , perhaps . 
Yes , the board room would be best . 
I shouldn't like it to feel we hadn't done everything in our power to show our appreciation of its condescension in looking in on us in this friendly way . 
The children could hardly believe their ears , for they had never thought that any one but themselves would believe in the Phoenix . 
Cyril wondered how the story would look in the papers next day . 
He seemed to see the posters in the streets PHOENIX FIRE OFFICE THE PHOENIX AT ITS TEMPLE MEETING TO WELCOME IT DELIGHT OF THE MANAGER AND EVERYBODY . 
The Phoenix strutted up and down the leather covered table , looking over its shoulder at its pretty back . 
'You see what a convincing manner I have , it said proudly . 
So they all followed the gentleman . 
The doors were of carved wood , very beautiful , with a carved Phoenix above . 
On the mantelpiece were some heavy bronze candlesticks and a clock , and on the top of the clock was another image of the Phoenix . 
'Remove that effigy , said the Phoenix to the gentlemen who were there , and it was hastily taken down . 
Then the Phoenix fluttered to the middle of the mantelpiece and stood there , looking more golden than ever . 
Then every one in the house and the office came in from the cashier to the women who cooked the clerks' dinners in the beautiful kitchen at the top of the house . 
And every one bowed to the Phoenix and then sat down in a chair . 
'Gentlemen , said the nicest gentleman , 'we have met here today The Phoenix was turning its golden beak from side to side . 
'I don't notice any incense , it said , with an injured sniff . 
A hurried consultation ended in plates being fetched from the kitchen . 
Brown sugar , sealing wax , and tobacco were placed on these , and something from a square bottle was poured over it all . 
Then a match was applied . 
It was the only incense that was handy in the Phoenix office , and it certainly burned very briskly and smoked a great deal . 
'We have met here today , said the gentleman again , 'on an occasion unparalleled in the annals of this office . 
Our respected Phoenix 'Head of the House , said the Phoenix , in a hollow voice . 
'I was coming to that . 
Our respected Phoenix , the Head of this ancient House , has at length done us the honour to come among us . 
Several of the younger clerks thought of saying 'Hear , hear , but they feared it might seem disrespectful to the bird . 
'I will not take up your time , the speaker went on , 'by recapitulating the advantages to be derived from a proper use of our system of fire insurance . 
Three cheers , gentlemen , for the winged Head of the House ! The cheers rose , deafening . 
When they had died away the Phoenix was asked to say a few words . 
It expressed in graceful phrases the pleasure it felt in finding itself at last in its own temple . 
It is what I have always been accustomed to . 
The four children , dumb witnesses of this wonderful scene , glanced a little nervously across the foam of white faces above the sea of black coats . 
It seemed to them that the Phoenix was really asking a little too much . 
Terms most favourable , Expenses reasonable , Moderate rates for annual Insurance . 
'That one is NOT my favourite , interrupted the Phoenix , 'and I think you've forgotten part of it . 
'That's better , said the bird . 
And every one sang 'Class one , for private dwelling house , For household goods and shops allows Provided these are built of brick Or stone , and tiled and slated thick . 
'Try another verse , said the Phoenix , 'further on . 
And again arose the voices of all the clerks and employees and managers and secretaries and cooks 'In Scotland our insurance yields The price of burnt up stacks in fields . 
'Skip that verse , said the Phoenix . 
'Thatched dwellings and their whole contents We deal with also with their rents Oh , glorious Phoenix , look and see That these are dealt with in class three . 
'The glories of your temple throng Too thick to go in any song And we attend , O good and wise , To days of grace and merchandise . 
'When people's homes are burned away They never have a cent to pay If they have done as all should do , O Phoenix , and have honoured you . 
'So let us raise our voice and sing The praises of the Phoenix King . 
An thank you very much for a very pleasant time . 
May you all prosper as you deserve to do , for I am sure a nicer , pleasanter spoken lot of temple attendants I have never met , and never wish to meet . 
I wish you all good day ! It fluttered to the wrist of Robert and drew the four children from the room . 
For each thought that he had fallen asleep for a few minutes , and had dreamed a very odd dream about the Phoenix and the board room . 
And , of course , no one mentioned it to any one else , because going to sleep at your office is a thing you simply MUST NOT do . 
The Phoenix was very pleased , but it decided to write an ode for itself . 
It thought the ones it had heard at its temple had been too hastily composed . 
Its own ode began 'For beauty and for modest worth The Phoenix has not its equal on earth . 
And when the children went to bed that night it was still trying to cut down the last line to the proper length without taking out any of what it wanted to say . 
That is what makes poetry so difficult . 
CHAPTER DOING GOOD 'We shan't be able to go anywhere on the carpet for a whole week , though , said Robert . 
'And I'm glad of it , said Jane , unexpectedly . 
'Yes , glad , said Jane . 
'I don't want any more things to happen just now . 
I feel like you do when you've been to three parties in a week like we did at granny's once and extras in between , toys and chocs and things like that . 
I want everything to be just real , and no fancy things happening at all . 
'I don't like being obliged to keep things from mother , said Anthea . 
'I don't know why , but it makes me feel selfish and mean . 
'If we could only get the mater to believe it , we might take her to the jolliest places , said Cyril , thoughtfully . 
'As it is , we've just got to be selfish and mean if it is that but I don't feel it is . 
'I KNOW it isn't , but I FEEL it is , said Anthea , 'and that's just as bad . 
'It's worse , said Robert 'if you knew it and didn't feel it , it wouldn't matter so much . 
'We're going to morrow , anyhow , said Robert . 
Let's get on the carpet and have a jolly good wish . 
You'll have time enough to repent of things all next week . 
'Yes , said Cyril , 'let's . 
'Well , look here , said Anthea . 
'You know there's something about Christmas that makes you want to be good however little you wish it at other times . 
'I don't mind , said Cyril . 
'We shan't know where we're going , and that'll be exciting . 
No one knows what'll happen . 
Four children and one bird were ready , and the wish was wished . 
Every one closed its eyes , so as to feel the topsy turvy swirl of the carpet's movement as little as possible . 
When the eyes were opened again the children found themselves on the carpet , and the carpet was in its proper place on the floor of their own nursery at Camden Town . 
'I say , said Cyril , 'here's a go ! 'Do you think it's worn out ? The wishing part of it , I mean ? Robert anxiously asked the Phoenix . 
How perfectly beastly ! 'You mean it means we can do kind and good actions where we are ? I see . 
I suppose it wants us to carry coals for the cook or make clothes for the bare heathens . 
Well , I simply won't . 
And the last day and everything . 
Look here ! Cyril spoke loudly and firmly . 
'We want to go somewhere really interesting , where we have a chance of doing something good and kind we don't want to do it here , but somewhere else . 
See ? Now , then . 
The obedient carpet started instantly , and the four children and one bird fell in a heap together , and as they fell were plunged in perfect darkness . 
'Are you all there ? said Anthea , breathlessly , through the black dark . 
Every one owned that it was there . 
She felt sure that no one would have any . 
And every one , with its mouth open , blinked at the sudden light . 
'Well done Bobs , said his sisters , and even Cyril's natural brotherly feelings could not check his admiration of Robert's foresight . 
'I've always carried them about ever since the lone tower day , said Robert , with modest pride . 
'I knew we should want them some day . 
I kept the secret well , didn't I ? 'Oh , yes , said Cyril , with fine scorn . 
'I found them the Sunday after , when I was feeling in your Norfolks for the knife you borrowed off me . 
But I thought you'd only sneaked them for Chinese lanterns , or reading in bed by . 
'Bobs , said Anthea , suddenly , 'do you know where we are ? This is the underground passage , and look there there's the money and the money bags , and everything . 
By this time the ten eyes had got used to the light of the candles , and no one could help seeing that Anthea spoke the truth . 
'It seems an odd place to do good and kind acts in , though , said Jane . 
'There's no one to do them to . 
'I wish you wouldn't , said Jane . 
'I know exactly where we shall find the bones , too , Robert went on . 
Robert was not pleased at being checked in his flight of fancy . 
'You girls will never be great writers , he said bitterly . 
'Peace ! it said 'there are no bones here except the small but useful sets that you have inside you . 
And you did not invite me to come out with you to hear you talk about bones , but to see you do some good and kind action . 
'We can't do it here , said Robert , sulkily . 
'No , rejoined the bird . 
'The only thing we can do here , it seems , is to try to frighten our little sisters . 
'He didn't , really , and I'm not so VERY little , said Jane , rather ungratefully . 
It was Cyril who suggested that perhaps they had better take the money and go . 
'That wouldn't be a kind act , except to ourselves and it wouldn't be good , whatever way you look at it , said Anthea , 'to take money that's not ours . 
'We might take it and spend it all on benefits to the poor and aged , said Cyril . 
'That wouldn't make it right to steal , said Anthea , stoutly . 
'I don't know , said Cyril . 
They were all standing up now . 
'Stealing is taking things that belong to some one else , and there's no one else . 
'It can't be stealing if 'That's right , said Robert , with ironical approval 'stand here all day arguing while the candles burn out . 
You'll like it awfully when it's all dark again and bony . 
'Let's get out , then , said Anthea . 
'We can argue as we go . 
So they rolled up the carpet and went . 
But when they had crept along to the place where the passage led into the topless tower they found the way blocked by a great stone , which they could not move . 
'I hope you're satisfied ! 'Everything has two ends , said the Phoenix , softly 'even a quarrel or a secret passage . 
So they turned round and went back , and Robert was made to go first with one of the candles , because he was the one who had begun to talk about bones . 
And Cyril carried the carpet . 
'I wish you hadn't put bones into our heads , said Jane , as they went along . 
'I didn't you always had them . 
More bones than brains , said Robert . 
The passage was long , and there were arches and steps and turnings and dark alcoves that the girls did not much like passing . 
The passage ended in a flight of steps . 
Don't mention it I like it . 
The stairs just go right slap into the ceiling , and it's a stone ceiling . 
You can't do good and kind actions underneath a paving stone . 
'Stairs aren't made to lead just to paving stones as a general rule , said the Phoenix . 
'Put your shoulder to the wheel . 
'There isn't any wheel , said the injured Robert , still rubbing his head . 
But Cyril had pushed past him to the top stair , and was already shoving his hardest against the stone above . 
Of course , it did not give in the least . 
'If it's a trap door said Cyril . 
And he stopped shoving and began to feel about with his hands . 
'Yes , there is a bolt . 
One even went into his mouth open , as he panted with the exertion of keeping up this unnatural position . 
Then he tried again , but still the bolt would not move . 
This must not be confused with a granny knot , which comes undone if you look at it . 
They felt it give dust fell freely on them . 
'Now , then , cried Robert , forgetting his head and his temper , 'push all together . 
One , two , three ! The stone was heaved up . 
It swung up on a creaking , unwilling hinge , and showed a growing oblong of dazzling daylight and it fell back with a bang against something that kept it upright . 
You can have no idea how dusty and dirty the children were . 
Fortunately there was no one to see them but each other . 
The place they were in was a little shrine , built on the side of a road that went winding up through yellow green fields to the topless tower . 
Below them were fields and orchards , all bare boughs and brown furrows , and little houses and gardens . 
The shrine was a kind of tiny chapel with no front wall just a place for people to stop and rest in and wish to be good . 
So the Phoenix told them . 
Under it was written 'St Jean de Luz . 
'And give it them ALL ? said Jane . 
They dusted each other as well as they could and went down the road . 
Here the children washed their hands and faces and dried them on their pocket handkerchiefs , which always , on these occasions , seem unnaturally small . 
Cyril's and Robert's handkerchiefs , indeed , rather undid the effects of the wash . 
But in spite of this the party certainly looked cleaner than before . 
The first house they came to was a little white house with green shutters and a slate roof . 
It stood in a prim little garden , and down each side of the neat path were large stone vases for flowers to grow in but all the flowers were dead now . 
Along one side of the house was a sort of wide veranda , built of poles and trellis work , and a vine crawled all over it . 
The children walked up to the front door . 
It was green and narrow . 
A chain with a handle hung beside it , and joined itself quite openly to a rusty bell that hung under the porch . 
Cyril had pulled the bell and its noisy clang was dying away before the terrible thought came to all . 
'My hat ! he breathed . 
'We don't know any French ! At this moment the door opened . 
A very tall , lean lady , with pale ringlets like whitey brown paper or oak shavings , stood before them . 
She had an ugly grey dress and a black silk apron . 
Her eyes were small and grey and not pretty , and the rims were red , as though she had been crying . 
She addressed the party in something that sounded like a foreign language , and ended with something which they were sure was a question . 
Of course , no one could answer it . 
'What does she say ? Robert asked , looking down into the hollow of his jacket , where the Phoenix was nestling . 
But before the Phoenix could answer , the whitey brown lady's face was lighted up by a most charming smile . 
'You you ar r re fr r rom the England ! she cried . 
'I love so much the England . 
Mais entrez entrez donc tous ! Enter , then enter all . 
One essuyes his feet on the carpet . 
She pointed to the mat . 
'We only wanted to ask 'I shall say you all that what you wish , said the lady . 
'Enter only ! So they all went in , wiping their feet on a very clean mat , and putting the carpet in a safe corner of the veranda . 
'The most beautiful days of my life , said the lady , as she shut the door , 'did pass themselves in England . 
And since long time I have not heard an English voice to repeal me the past . 
There was a wood fire , very small and very bright , on the hearth neat little logs laid on brass fire dogs . 
Some portraits of powdered ladies and gentlemen hung in oval frames on the pale walls . 
There were silver candlesticks on the mantelpiece , and there were chairs and a table , very slim and polite , with slender legs . 
The room was extremely bare , but with a bright foreign bareness that was very cheerful , in an odd way of its own . 
At the end of the polished table a very un English little boy sat on a footstool in a high backed , uncomfortable looking chair . 
He wore black velvet , and the kind of collar all frills and lacey that Robert would rather have died than wear but then the little French boy was much younger than Robert . 
'Oh , how pretty ! said every one . 
But no one meant the little French boy , with the velvety short knickerbockers and the velvety short hair . 
There were tiny candles on the tree , but they were not lighted yet . 
'But yes is it not that it is genteel ? said the lady . 
'Sit down you then , and let us see . 
'Ah ! catch it , then , cried the lady 'it will itself burn your genteel parrakeet ! 'It won't , said Robert , 'thank you . 
And the little French boy clapped his clean and tidy hands but the lady was so anxious that the Phoenix fluttered down and walked up and down on the shiny walnut wood table . 
'Is it that it talks ? asked the lady . 
And the Phoenix replied in excellent French . 
It said , 'Parfaitement , madame ! 'Oh , the pretty parrakeet , said the lady . 
'I am sorry we came just when you were so sad , said Anthea , 'but we really only wanted to ask you whose that castle is on the hill . 
'Oh , my little angel , said the poor lady , sniffing , 'to day and for hundreds of years the castle is to us , to our family . 
To morrow it must that I sell it to some strangers and my little Henri , who ignores all , he will not have never the lands paternal . 
'Ah ! one has already recounted to you the legend ? she said . 
But all that , my children , it is but the accounts of fays 'She means fairy stories , whispered the Phoenix to Robert . 
'Tell her what you have found . 
But we can show you where the gold is and help you to fetch it away . 
The lady looked doubtfully at Robert as she absently returned the hugs of the girls . 
'No , he's not making it up , said Anthea 'it's true , TRUE , TRUE ! and we are so glad . 
'You would not be capable to torment an old woman ? she said 'and it is not possible that it be a dream . 
'It really IS true , said Cyril 'and I congratulate you very much . 
His tone of studied politeness seemed to convince more than the raptures of the others . 
'If I do not dream , she said , 'Henri come to Manon and you you shall come all with me to Mr the Curate . 
Is it not ? Manon was a wrinkled old woman with a red and yellow handkerchief twisted round her head . 
The lady , with her French waving hands and her shrugging French shoulders and her trembling French speech , told the story . 
And now the priest , who knew no English , shrugged HIS shoulders and waved HIS hands and spoke also in French . 
'He thinks , whispered the Phoenix , 'that her troubles have turned her brain . 
'If I speak , the bird whispered , 'he'll think HE'S mad , too . 
'Tell me what to say . 
'Say C'est vrai , monsieur . 
Venez donc voir , said the Phoenix and then Robert earned the undying respect of everybody by suddenly saying , very loudly and distinctly 'Say vray , mossoo venny dong vwaw . 
'Now , said Robert , 'I will go first and show you where it is . 
And every one was flushed with the joy of performing such a wonderfully kind action . 
And the children were struck dumb with joy and pleasure . 
'Get away NOW , said the Phoenix softly , breaking in on the radiant dream . 
So that was all right . 
'It is much the best thing we've done , said Anthea , when they talked it over at tea time . 
'In the future we'll only do kind actions with the carpet . 
'Ahem ! said the Phoenix . 
'I beg your pardon ? said Anthea . 
'Oh , nothing , said the bird . 
But if you think this you will be wrong . 
The fact is , mother arranged with Aunt Emma that she was to meet the children at Waterloo , when they went back from their Christmas holiday at Lyndhurst . 
The train was fixed , but not the day . 
When the others understood what was the matter I think they told Robert what they thought of him . 
'We must take the train to Croydon , said Anthea , 'and find Aunt Emma . 
'Yes , said Cyril , 'and precious pleased those Jevonses would be to see us and our traps . 
Aunt Emma , indeed , was staying with some Jevonses very prim people . 
They were middle aged and wore very smart blouses , and they were fond of matinees and shopping , and they did not care about children . 
'I know MOTHER would be pleased to see us if we went back , said Jane . 
'Yes , she would , but she'd think it was not right to show she was pleased , because it's Bob's fault we're not met . 
Don't I know the sort of thing ? said Cyril . 
'Besides , we've no tin . 
No we've got enough for a growler among us , but not enough for tickets to the New Forest . 
We must just go home . 
They won't be so savage when they find we've really got home all right . 
You know auntie was only going to take us home in a cab . 
'I believe we ought to go to Croydon , Anthea insisted . 
'Aunt Emma would be out to a dead cert , said Robert . 
'Those Jevonses go to the theatre every afternoon , I believe . 
Besides , there's the Phoenix at home , AND the carpet . 
I votes we call a four wheeled cabman . 
This he did , and the price he asked for doing so was exactly the value of the gold coin grandpapa had given Cyril for Christmas . 
Here he rang the bell and the moment its answering clang was heard , every one felt that it would be some time before that bell was answered . 
The sound of a bell is quite different , somehow , when there is anyone inside the house who hears it . 
I can't tell you why that is but so it is . 
'I expect they're changing their dresses , said Jane . 
'Too late , said Anthea , 'it must be past five . 
I expect Eliza's gone to post a letter , and cook's gone to see the time . 
And the bell did its best to inform the listening children that there was really no one human in the house . 
They rang again and listened intently . 
The hearts of all sank low . 
It is a terrible thing to be locked out of your own house , on a dark , muggy January evening . 
'There is no gas on anywhere , said Jane , in a broken voice . 
'I expect they've left the gas on once too often , and the draught blew it out , and they're suffocated in their beds . 
Father always said they would some day , said Robert cheerfully . 
'Let's go and fetch a policeman , said Anthea , trembling . 
'And be taken up for trying to be burglars no , thank you , said Cyril . 
'I heard father read out of the paper about a young man who got into his own mother's house , and they got him made a burglar only the other day . 
'I only hope the gas hasn't hurt the Phoenix , said Anthea . 
'It said it wanted to stay in the bathroom cupboard , and I thought it would be all right , because the servants never clean that out . 
But if it's gone and got out and been choked by gas And besides , directly we open the door we shall be choked , too . 
I KNEW we ought to have gone to Aunt Emma , at Croydon . 
Oh , Squirrel , I wish we had . 
'Shut up , said her brother , briefly . 
'There's some one rattling the latch inside . 
Every one listened with all its ears , and every one stood back as far from the door as the steps would allow . 
The latch rattled , and clicked . 
'Hush ! said the voice from the letter box slit . 
'Your slaves have gone a merry making . 
The latch of this portal is too stiff for my beak . 
But at the side the little window above the shelf whereon your bread lies it is not fastened . 
And Anthea added , 'I wish you'd meet us there , dear Phoenix . 
The children crept round to the pantry window . 
It is at the side of the house , and there is a green gate labelled 'Tradesmen's Entrance' , which is always kept bolted . 
But if you get one foot on the fence between you and next door , and one on the handle of the gate , you are over before you know where you are . 
This , at least , was the experience of Cyril and Robert , and even , if the truth must be told , of Anthea and Jane . 
So in almost no time all four were in the narrow gravelled passage that runs between that house and the next . 
Then Robert made a back , and Cyril hoisted himself up and got his knicker bockered knee on the concrete window sill . 
The soles of his boots squarish muddy patches disappeared . 
'Give me a leg up , said Robert to his sisters . 
'No , you don't , said Jane firmly . 
'I'm not going to be left outside here with just Anthea , and have something creep up behind us out of the dark . 
Squirrel can go and open the back door . 
A light had sprung awake in the pantry . 
He let the others in by the back door . 
And when it had been bolted again the children went all over the house and lighted every single gas jet they could find . 
For they couldn't help feeling that this was just the dark dreary winter's evening when an armed burglar might easily be expected to appear at any moment . 
There is nothing like light when you are afraid of burglars or of anything else , for that matter . 
These last were very pleased that the children had come home again , especially when Anthea had lighted the nursery fire . 
But , as usual , the children treated the loving little blackbeetles with coldness and disdain . 
I will tell you how Anthea did it , and if ever you have to light one yourself you may remember how it is done . 
First , she raked out the ashes of the fire that had burned there a week ago for Eliza had actually never done this , though she had had plenty of time . 
In doing this Anthea knocked her knuckle and made it bleed . 
Then she laid the largest and handsomest cinders in the bottom of the grate . 
In doing this she cut her finger slightly with the string , and when she broke it , two of the sticks jumped up and hit her on the cheek . 
Then she put more cinders and some bits of coal no dust . 
She put most of that on her hands , but there seemed to be enough left for her face . 
Then she lighted the edges of the paper balls , and waited till she heard the fizz crack crack fizz of the wood as it began to burn . 
Then she went and washed her hands and face under the tap in the back kitchen . 
In the real country fires are lighted in a different and prettier way . 
But it is always good to wash your hands and face afterwards , wherever you are . 
Let us call it a tea ish meal . 
There was tea , certainly , for Anthea's fire blazed and crackled so kindly that it really seemed to be affectionately inviting the kettle to come and sit upon its lap . 
So the kettle was brought and tea made . 
But no milk could be found so every one had six lumps of sugar to each cup instead . 
The things to eat , on the other hand , were nicer than usual . 
It was indeed , as Jane said , 'a banquet fit for an Arabian Knight . 
'Your slaves will not return to night , said the Phoenix . 
'I don't think they ought to have gone without leave , said Anthea , 'however many relations they have , or however old they are but I suppose we ought to wash up . 
'It's not our business about the leave , said Cyril , firmly , 'but I simply won't wash up for them . 
We got it , and we'll clear it away and then we'll go somewhere on the carpet . 
It's not often we get a chance of being out all night . 
We can go right away to the other side of the equator , to the tropical climes , and see the sun rise over the great Pacific Ocean . 
'Right you are , said Robert . 
'I always did want to see the Southern Cross and the stars as big as gas lamps . 
'DON'T go , said Anthea , very earnestly , 'because I COULDN'T . 
I'm SURE mother wouldn't like us to leave the house and I should hate to be left here alone . 
'I'd stay with you , said Jane loyally . 
'I know you would , said Anthea gratefully , 'but even with you I'd much rather not . 
'Well , said Cyril , trying to be kind and amiable , 'I don't want you to do anything you think's wrong , BUT He was silent this silence said many things . 
'I don't see , Robert was beginning , when Anthea interrupted 'I'm quite sure . 
Sometimes you just think a thing's wrong , and sometimes you KNOW . 
And this is a KNOW time . 
And your noble brothers would never leave you . 
'Of course not , said Cyril rather quickly . 
And Robert said so too . 
'I myself , the Phoenix went on , 'am willing to help in any way possible . 
I will go personally either by carpet or on the wing and fetch you anything you can think of to amuse you during the evening . 
In order to waste no time I could go while you wash up . 
I wish cook would try that way for a change . 
'I don't , said Cyril , briefly . 
'I should hate the look of her elastic side boots sticking up . 
'This is mere trifling , said the Phoenix . 
'Come , decide what I shall fetch for you . 
I can get you anything you like . 
But of course they couldn't decide . 
Many things were suggested a rocking horse , jewelled chessmen , an elephant , a bicycle , a motor car , books with pictures , musical instruments , and many other things . 
, and only one can ride on a rocking horse . 
Suddenly , in the midst of the discussion , the Phoenix spread its wings and fluttered to the floor , and from there it spoke . 
'What IS its native land ? 'I didn't gather . 
But since you can't agree , and time is passing , and the tea things are not washed down I mean washed up 'I votes we do , said Robert . 
'It'll stop all this jaw , anyway . 
And it's not bad to have surprises . 
Perhaps it's a Turkey carpet , and it might bring us Turkish delight . 
'Or a Turkish patrol , said Robert . 
'Or a Turkish bath , said Anthea . 
'Or a Turkish towel , said Jane . 
'Nonsense , Robert urged , 'it said beautiful and delightful , and towels and baths aren't THAT , however good they may be for you . 
I suppose it won't give us the slip , he added , pushing back his chair and standing up . 
'Hush ! said the Phoenix 'how can you ? Don't trample on its feelings just because it's only a carpet . 
'But how can it do it unless one of us is on it to do the wishing ? asked Robert . 
He spoke with a rising hope that it MIGHT be necessary for one to go and why not Robert ? But the Phoenix quickly threw cold water on his new born dream . 
'Why , you just write your wish on a paper , and pin it on the carpet . 
Then the paper was laid on the carpet . 
'Writing down , please , said the Phoenix 'the carpet can't read a paper whose back is turned to it , any more than you can . 
The edges got smaller and smaller , and then it disappeared from sight . 
'It may take it some time to collect the beautiful and delightful things , said the Phoenix . 
'I should wash up I mean wash down . 
It was a very strange sound , indeed most odd , and unlike any other sounds the children had ever heard . 
At least , they had heard sounds as much like it as a toy engine's whistle is like a steam siren's . 
'The carpet's come back , said Robert and the others felt that he was right . 
'But what has it brought with it ? asked Jane . 
'It sounds like Leviathan , that great beast . 
'It couldn't have been made in India , and have brought elephants ? Even baby ones would be rather awful in that room , said Cyril . 
'I vote we take it in turns to squint through the keyhole . 
They did in the order of their ages . 
The Phoenix , being the eldest by some thousands of years , was entitled to the first peep . 
But 'Excuse me , it said , ruffling its golden feathers and sneezing softly 'looking through keyholes always gives me a cold in my golden eyes . 
'I see something grey moving , said he . 
'It's a zoological garden of some sort , I bet , said Robert , when he had taken his turn . 
And the soft rustling , bustling , ruffling , scuffling , shuffling , fluffling noise went on inside . 
I can't see anything , said Anthea , 'my eye tickles so . 
Then Jane's turn came , and she put her eye to the keyhole . 
'It's a giant kitty cat , she said 'and it's asleep all over the floor . 
'Giant cats are tigers father said so . 
He said tigers were giant cats . 
It's not at all the same thing . 
'It's no use sending the carpet to fetch precious things for you if you're afraid to look at them when they come , said the Phoenix , sensibly . 
And Cyril , being the eldest , said 'Come on , and turned the handle . 
The gas had been left full on after tea , and everything in the room could be plainly seen by the ten eyes at the door . 
'My hat ! Cyril remarked . 
'I never thought about its being a PERSIAN carpet . 
'This is pretty poor sport , said Cyril . 
'What's the matter with the bounders ? 'I imagine that they are hungry , said the Phoenix . 
'If you were to feed them 'We haven't anything to feed them with , said Anthea in despair , and she stroked the nearest Persian back . 
'Oh , pussies , do be quiet we can't hear ourselves think . 
She had to shout this entreaty , for the mews were growing deafening , 'and it would take pounds' and pounds' worth of cat's meat . 
'Let's ask the carpet to take them away , said Robert . 
But the girls said 'No . 
'They are so soft and pussy , said Jane . 
'And valuable , said Anthea , hastily . 
'We can sell them for lots and lots of money . 
So it was written that the carpet should bring food for Persian cats , and the paper was pinned to the carpet as before . 
The carpet seemed to gather itself together , and the cats dropped off it , as raindrops do from your mackintosh when you shake it . 
The cats did not seem to have been at all properly brought up . 
The cats mewed and mewed and twisted their Persian forms in and out and unfolded their Persian tails , and the children and the Phoenix huddled together on the table . 
The Phoenix , Robert noticed suddenly , was trembling . 
'So many cats , it said , 'and they might not know I was the Phoenix . 
These accidents happen so quickly . 
It quite un mans me . 
This was a danger of which the children had not thought . 
'Creep in , cried Robert , opening his jacket . 
And on the instant the good carpet slapped itself down on the floor . 
And it was covered with rats three hundred and ninety eight of them , I believe , two for each cat . 
'How horrible ! cried Anthea . 
'Oh , take them away ! 'Take yourself away , said the Phoenix , 'and me . 
'I wish we'd never had a carpet , said Anthea , in tears . 
They hustled and crowded out of the door , and shut it , and locked it . 
Cyril , with great presence of mind , lit a candle and turned off the gas at the main . 
'The rats'll have a better chance in the dark , he said . 
Every one listened in breathless silence . 
Suddenly Robert sniffed , in the silence of the dark kitchen , where the only candle was burning all on one side , because of the draught . 
'What a funny scent ! he said . 
'What do you mean ? he said . 
You listen everything's as quiet as quiet . 
The strange sweet scent grew stronger , and the Phoenix put out its beak . 
'They're MUSK rats , said the Phoenix . 
'I suppose some cats eat them but never Persian ones . 
What a mistake for a well informed carpet to make ! Oh , what a night we're having ! 'Do go away , said Robert , nervously . 
'We're just going to bed that's our bedroom candle there isn't any row . 
Everything's as quiet as a mouse . 
A wild chorus of mews drowned his words , and with the mews were mingled the shrieks of the musk rats . 
What had happened ? Had the cats tasted them before deciding that they disliked the flavour ? 'I'm a coming in , said the policeman . 
'You've got a cat shut up there . 
'A cat , said Cyril . 
'Oh , my only aunt ! A cat ! 'Come in , then , said Robert . 
'It's your own look out . 
Wait a shake , and I'll undo the side gate . 
He undid the side gate , and the policeman , very cautiously , came in . 
The cats were mewing and the musk rats were squeaking so that you could hardly hear yourself speak . 
In the kitchen were the four children , one candle , a concealed Phoenix , and a very visible policeman . 
'Now then , look here , said the Policeman , very loudly , and he pointed his lantern at each child in turn , 'what's the meaning of this here yelling and caterwauling . 
I tell you you've got a cat here , and some one's a ill treating of it . 
The mews and the squeaks grew softer , and in the comparative silence , Cyril said 'It's true . 
There are a few cats here . 
But we've not hurt them . 
'It don't sound like it , said the policeman grimly . 
'I daresay they're not REAL cats , said Jane madly , perhaps they're only dream cats . 
'I'll dream cat you , my lady , was the brief response of the force . 
'If you understood anything except people who do murders and stealings and naughty things like that , I'd tell you all about it , said Robert 'but I'm certain you don't . 
You're not meant to shove your oar into people's private cat keepings . 
You're only supposed to interfere when people shout murder and stop thief in the street . 
'Oh , don't be so horrid , Anthea was saying , gently and earnestly . 
'We LOVE cats dear pussy soft things . 
We wouldn't hurt them for worlds . 
Would we , Pussy ? And Jane answered that of course they wouldn't . 
And still the policeman seemed unmoved by their eloquence . 
'Now , look here , he said , 'I'm a going to see what's in that room beyond there , and His voice was drowned in a wild burst of mewing and squeaking . 
'Stow it , he said at last . 
'I'm a goin' into the next room in the execution of my duty . 
I'm a goin' to use my eyes my ears have gone off their chumps , what with you and them cats . 
And he pushed Robert aside , and strode through the door . 
'Don't say I didn't warn you , said Robert . 
'It's tigers REALLY , said Jane . 
I wouldn't go in , if I were you . 
But the policeman was quite stony nothing any one said seemed to make any difference to him . 
Some policemen are like this , I believe . 
And again the shrieks sounded shrilly and piercingly from the dark street outside . 
'Come on , said Robert . 
'Come and look after cats while somebody's being killed outside . 
For Robert had an inside feeling that told him quite plainly WHO it was that was screaming . 
'You young rip , said the policeman , 'I'll settle up with you bimeby . 
Then Robert smacked his knickerbocker loudly with his palm , and said 'Good old Phoenix ! I should know its golden voice anywhere . 
'But he'll come back , said Anthea , mournfully , 'as soon as it finds the murderer is only a bright vision of a dream , and there isn't one at all really . 
'No he won't , said the soft voice of the clever Phoenix , as it flew in . 
'HE DOES NOT KNOW WHERE YOUR HOUSE IS . 
I heard him own as much to a fellow mercenary . 
If you'll excuse me , I will go to bed . 
'Let's hope it won't be musk milk , said Anthea , in gloom , as she pinned the paper face downwards on the carpet . 
'Is there such a thing as a musk cow ? she added anxiously , as the carpet shrivelled and vanished . 
Perhaps really it WOULD have been wiser to let the carpet take the cats away . 
It's getting quite late , and we can't keep them all night . 
'Oh , can't we ? was the bitter rejoinder of Robert , who had been fastening the side door . 
'You might have consulted me , he went on . 
'I'm not such an idiot as some people . 
The liveliness of Persian mews alone prevented the occurrence of a dismal silence . 
'Never mind , she said . 
'Do you know , I really do think they're quieting down a bit . 
Perhaps they heard us say milk . 
'They can't understand English , said Jane . 
'You forget they're Persian cats , Panther . 
'Well , said Anthea , rather sharply , for she was tired and anxious , 'who told you milk wasn't Persian for milk . 
Lots of English words are just the same in French at least I know miaw is , and croquet , and fiance . 
Oh , pussies , do be quiet ! Let's stroke them as hard as we can with both hands , and perhaps they'll stop . 
Anthea had always been afraid of cows but now she tried to be brave . 
'Anyway , it can't run after me , she said to herself 'There isn't room for it even to begin to run . 
The cow was perfectly placid . 
She behaved like a strayed duchess till some one brought a saucer for the milk , and some one else tried to milk the cow into it . 
You may think it is easy , but it is not . 
All the children were by this time strung up to a pitch of heroism that would have been impossible to them in their ordinary condition . 
Anthea , holding the saucer , now advanced towards the cow . 
She remembered to have heard that cows , when milked by strangers , are susceptible to the soothing influence of the human voice . 
So , clutching her saucer very tight , she sought for words to whose soothing influence the cow might be susceptible . 
Lie down , then , good dog , lie down ! was all that she could think of to say , and she said it . 
The situation , full of grey mewing cats , was too serious for that . 
Then Anthea , with a beating heart , tried to milk the cow . 
'Oh , how much too horrid everything is ! she cried . 
Let's go to bed and leave the horrid cats with the hateful cow . 
Perhaps somebody will eat somebody else . 
'It is most truly awful , said Anthea , 'and I am so tired . 
Let's let the cats loose . 
'And the cow , perhaps ? said Cyril . 
'The police would find us at once . 
That cow would stand at the gate and mew I mean moo to come in . 
And so would the cats . 
No I see quite well what we've got to do . 
We must put them in baskets and leave them on people's doorsteps , like orphan foundlings . 
'We've got three baskets , counting mother's work one , said Jane brightening . 
Except the church one and 'Oh , well , said Cyril , 'if you simply MAKE difficulties 'I'm with you , said Robert . 
'Don't fuss about the cow , Panther . 
It's simply GOT to stay the night , and I'm sure I've read that the cow is a remunerating creature , and that means it will sit still and think for hours . 
The carpet can take it away in the morning . 
And as for the baskets , we'll do them up in dusters , or pillow cases , or bath towels . 
You girls can be out of it if you like . 
They snuggled down in the sofa blanket , and Cyril threw the fur hearthrug over them . 
'Ah , he said , 'that's all women are fit for to keep safe and warm , while the men do the work and run dangers and risks and things . 
'I'm not , said Anthea , 'you know I'm not . 
They heard the booted search for baskets in the back kitchen . 
They heard the side door open and close , and they knew that each brother had gone out with at least one cat . 
Anthea's last thought was that it would take at least all night to get rid of one hundred and ninety nine cats by twos . 
There would be ninety nine journeys of two cats each , and one cat over . 
'I almost think we might keep the one cat over , said Anthea . 
'I don't seem to care for cats just now , but I daresay I shall again some day . 
It was Jane who awoke with a start , to find Anthea still asleep . 
There was a sound of muffled , shuffled feet on the stairs . 
They went down into the basement the cats , who seemed to have fallen into the sleep of exhaustion , awoke at the sound of the approaching footsteps and mewed piteously . 
Jane was at the foot of the stairs before she saw it was not her brothers whose coming had roused her and the cats , but a burglar . 
She knew he was a burglar at once , because he wore a fur cap and a red and black charity check comforter , and he had no business where he was . 
If you had been stood in jane's shoes you would no doubt have run away in them , appealing to the police and neighbours with horrid screams . 
Indeed , in all the cases Jane had read of , his burglarishness was almost at once forgotten in the interest he felt in the little girl's artless prattle . 
In the stories and the affecting poetry the child could never speak plainly , though it always looked old enough to in the pictures . 
And Jane could not make up her mind to lisp and 'talk baby' , even to a burglar . 
And while she hesitated he softly opened the nursery door and went in . 
Jane followed just in time to see him sit down flat on the floor , scattering cats as a stone thrown into a pool splashes water . 
Then she heard the burglar draw a long breath , and he spoke . 
'It's a judgement , he said , 'so help me bob if it ain't . 
Oh , 'ere's a thing to 'appen to a chap ! Makes it come 'ome to you , don't it neither ? Cats an' cats an' cats . 
There couldn't be all them cats . 
If she ain't the moral of the old man's Daisy . 
She's a dream out of when I was a lad I don't mind 'er so much . 
'Ere , Daisy , Daisy ? The cow turned and looked at him . 
'SHE'S all right , he went on . 
'Sort of company , too . 
Though them above knows how she got into this downstairs parlour . 
But them cats oh , take 'em away , take 'em away ! I'll chuck the 'ole show Oh , take 'em away . 
'Burglar , said Jane , close behind him , and he started convulsively , and turned on her a blank face , whose pale lips trembled . 
'I can't take those cats away . 
'Lor' lumme ! exclaimed the man 'if 'ere ain't another on 'em . 
'And so , she added , 'are the cats . 
'Then send for the police , send for the police , and I'll go quiet . 
If you ain't no realler than them cats , I'm done , spunchuck out of time . 
One thing , there'd not be room for 'arf them cats in no cell as ever I see . 
He ran his fingers through his hair , which was short , and his eyes wandered wildly round the roomful of cats . 
'Burglar , said Jane , kindly and softly , 'if you didn't like cats , what did you come here for ? 'Send for the police , was the unfortunate criminal's only reply . 
'I'd rather you would honest , I'd rather . 
'I daren't , said Jane , 'and besides , I've no one to send . 
I wish he'd never been born . 
'You've a feeling 'art , miss , said the burglar 'but them cats is really a little bit too thick . 
'Look here , said Jane , 'I won't call the police . 
And I am quite a real little girl , though I talk older than the kind you've met before when you've been doing your burglings . 
'Well , then , said Jane and a thrill of joyful pride ran through her 'perhaps you know how to milk cows ? 'Perhaps I does , was the burglar's cautious rejoinder . 
'Then , said Jane , 'if you will ONLY milk ours you don't know how we shall always love you . 
The burglar replied that loving was all very well . 
But if they go on mewing like this he will , and then I don't know what'll become of us , or you either . 
This argument seemed to decide the criminal . 
Jane fetched the wash bowl from the sink , and he spat on his hands and prepared to milk the cow . 
At this instant boots were heard on the stairs . 
'It's all up , said the man , desperately , 'this 'ere's a plant . 
He made as if to open the window and leap from it . 
'It's all right , I tell you , whispered Jane , in anguish . 
'I'll say you're a friend of mine , or the good clergyman called in , or my uncle , or ANYTHIING only do , do , do milk the cow . 
The man looked about him like a rat looks round a trap . 
'This is a friend of mine , said Jane 'he's just called in , and he's going to milk the cow for us . 
ISN'T it good and kind of him ? She winked at the others , and though they did not understand they played up loyally . 
'How do ? said Cyril , 'Very glad to meet you . 
Don't let us interrupt the milking . 
'I shall 'ave a 'ead and a 'arf in the morning , and no bloomin' error , remarked the burglar but he began to milk the cow . 
Not the same one a much stronger sort . 
He thought it really was a foundling orphan we'd got . 
He pranced off when he'd got the cat bags off his face thought we'd bolted . 
The gentle samishness of the milk swishing into the hand bowl seemed to have soothed the burglar very much . 
Finding him in this softened mood , Jane said 'I wish you'd tell us how you came to choose our house for your burglaring to night . 
I am awfully glad you did . 
You have been so kind . 
I don't know what we should have done without you , she added hastily . 
'We all love you ever so . 
And I don't know but what it won't be my last . 
For this 'ere cow , she reminds me of my father , and I know 'ow 'e'd 'ave 'ided me if I'd laid 'ands on a 'a'penny as wasn't my own . 
So they can just lock up the 'ouse and leave the gas a burning , so's no one won't know , and get back bright an' early by 'leven o'clock . 
And we'll make a night of it , Mrs Prosser , so we will . 
I'm just a going to run out to pop the letter in the post . 
And then the lady what had chosen the three ha'porth so careful , she said Lor , Mrs Wigson , I wonder at you , and your hands all over suds . 
This good gentleman'll slip it into the post for yer , I'll be bound , seeing I'm a customer of his . 
So they give me the letter , and of course I read the direction what was written on it afore I shoved it into the post . 
Nicked the bloomin' lot 'e did and me with not a farden to take 'ome to my brother and his missus . 
'How awful ! said Anthea , with much sympathy . 
'Horful indeed , miss , I believe yer , the burglar rejoined , with deep feeling . 
'You don't know her temper when she's roused . 
An' I'm sure I 'ope you never may , neither . 
And I'd 'ad all my oranges off of 'em . 
But them cats , they've brought me back to the ways of honestness . 
'Look here , said Cyril , 'these cats are very valuable very indeed . 
And we will give them all to you , if only you will take them away . 
'I see they're a breedy lot , replied the burglar . 
'But I don't want no bother with the coppers . 
Did you come by them honest now ? Straight ? 'They are all our very own , said Anthea , 'we wanted them , but the confidement 'Consignment , whispered Cyril . 
'was larger than we wanted , and they're an awful bother . 
If you got your barrow , and some sacks or baskets , your brother's missus would be awfully pleased . 
My father says Persian cats are worth pounds and pounds each . 
'Well , said the burglar and he was certainly moved by her remarks 'I see you're in a hole and I don't mind lending a helping 'and . 
I don't ask 'ow you come by them . 
But I've got a pal 'e's a mark on cats . 
I'll fetch him along , and if he thinks they'd fetch anything above their skins I don't mind doin' you a kindness . 
'You won't go away and never come back , said Jane , 'because I don't think I COULD bear that . 
The burglar , quite touched by her emotion , swore sentimentally that , alive or dead , he would come back . 
Then he went , and Cyril and Robert sent the girls to bed and sat up to wait for his return . 
It soon seemed absurd to await him in a state of wakefulness , but his stealthy tap on the window awoke them readily enough . 
For he did return , with the pal and the barrow and the sacks . 
'I'm a fence that's what I am , said the burglar gloomily . 
'I never thought I'd come down to this , and all acause er my kind 'eart . 
Cyril knew that a fence is a receiver of stolen goods , and he replied briskly 'I give you my sacred the cats aren't stolen . 
I shouldn't wonder if it was nigh upon one now . 
When the cats had been removed , and the boys and the burglar had parted with warm expressions of friendship , there remained only the cow . 
'She must stay all night , said Robert . 
'Cook'll have a fit when she sees her . 
'All night ? said Cyril . 
'Why it's tomorrow morning if it's one . 
But the cow could not be got to move on to the carpet . 
And the carpet and cow vanished together , and the boys went to bed , tired out and only too thankful that the evening at last was over . 
Next morning the carpet lay calmly in its place , but one corner was very badly torn . 
It was the corner that the cow had been tied on to . 
It was shivery cold , and there was but little in the house that was really worth eating . 
Robert had arranged a thoughtful little surprise for the absent servants . 
But the housemaid , more acute , judged that someone must have been in the house a view confirmed by the sight of the breakfast things on the nursery table . 
'Now , said Cyril , firmly , when the cook's hysterics had become quieter , and the housemaid had time to say what she thought of them , 'don't you begin jawing us . 
We aren't going to stand it . 
You'll please make an extra special treacle roley for dinner , and we'll have a tinned tongue . 
'I daresay , said the housemaid , indignant , still in her outdoor things and with her hat very much on one side . 
'Don't you come a threatening me , Master Cyril , because I won't stand it , so I tell you . 
'You know where liars go to , Eliza at least if you don't 'Liars indeed ! said Eliza , 'I won't demean myself talking to you . 
'How's Mrs Wigson ? said Robert , 'and DID you keep it up last night ? The mouth of the housemaid fell open . 
'Did you doss with Maria or Emily ? asked Cyril . 
'How did Mrs Prosser enjoy herself ? asked Jane . 
'Forbear , said Cyril , 'they've had enough . 
Whether we tell or not depends on your later life , he went on , addressing the servants . 
'If you are decent to us we'll be decent to you . 
You'd better make that treacle roley and if I were you , Eliza , I'd do a little housework and cleaning , just for a change . 
The servants gave in once and for all . 
'There's nothing like firmness , Cyril went on , when the breakfast things were cleared away and the children were alone in the nursery . 
'People are always talking of difficulties with servants . 
It's quite simple , when you know the way . 
We can do what we like now and they won't peach . 
I think we've broken THEIR proud spirit . 
Let's go somewhere by carpet . 
'I wouldn't if I were you , said the Phoenix , yawning , as it swooped down from its roost on the curtain pole . 
'I've given you one or two hints , but now concealment is at an end , and I see I must speak out . 
It perched on the back of a chair and swayed to and fro , like a parrot on a swing . 
'What's the matter now ? said Anthea . 
She was not quite so gentle as usual , because she was still weary from the excitement of last night's cats . 
'I'm tired of things happening . 
I shan't go anywhere on the carpet . 
I'm going to darn my stockings . 
'Darn ! said the Phoenix , 'darn ! From those young lips these strange expressions 'Mend , then , said Anthea , 'with a needle and wool . 
The Phoenix opened and shut its wings thoughtfully . 
'Your stockings , it said , 'are much less important than they now appear to you . 
But the carpet look at the bare worn patches , look at the great rent at yonder corner . 
The carpet has been your faithful friend your willing servant . 
How have you requited its devoted service ? 'Dear Phoenix , Anthea urged , 'don't talk in that horrid lecturing tone . 
You make me feel as if I'd done something wrong . 
And really it is a wishing carpet , and we haven't done anything else to it only wishes . 
'Only wishes , repeated the Phoenix , ruffling its neck feathers angrily , 'and what sort of wishes ? Wishing people to be in a good temper , for instance . 
, 'this carpet never flinched . 
It did what you asked , but the wear and tear must have been awful . 
'Yes , said the bird , 'eleven thousand nine hundred and forty of them I daresay you noticed ? I should be surprised if these had not left their mark . 
Sand of sunny shores twice . 
Soaking in southern seas once . 
Goodness knows where in Persia once . 
And once , wherever the cow came from . 
Hold your carpet up to the light , and with cautious tenderness , if YOU please . 
It was full of little holes there were some large ones , and more than one thin place . 
At one corner a strip of it was torn , and hung forlornly . 
'We must mend it , said Anthea 'never mind about my stockings . 
I can sew them up in lumps with sewing cotton if there's no time to do them properly . 
I know it's awful and no girl would who respected herself , and all that but the poor dear carpet's more important than my silly stockings . 
Let's go out now this very minute . 
However , ordinary Scotch heather mixture fingering seemed good enough , and this they bought , and all that day Jane and Anthea darned and darned and darned . 
'It is not an ordinary , ignorant , innocent carpet from Kidderminster , it said , 'it is a carpet with a past a Persian past . 
'Not of a MAGIC carpet , said the Phoenix 'why , if it had been allowed to lie about on floors there wouldn't be much of it left now . 
No , indeed ! It has lived in chests of cedarwood , inlaid with pearl and ivory , wrapped in priceless tissues of cloth of gold , embroidered with gems of fabulous value . 
It has reposed in the sandal wood caskets of princesses , and in the rose attar scented treasure houses of kings . 
Never , never , had any one degraded it by walking on it except in the way of business , when wishes were required , and then they always took their shoes off . 
And YOU 'Oh , DON'T ! said Jane , very near tears . 
'You know you'd never have been hatched at all if it hadn't been for mother wanting a carpet for us to walk on . 
'Relate away , said Anthea 'I mean , please do . 
'The Princess Zulieka , fairest of royal ladies , began the bird , 'had in her cradle been the subject of several enchantments . 
On Cyril's pale brow stood beads of agitation and perspiration , and on the scarlet brow of Robert was a large black smear . 
'What ails ye both ? asked the Phoenix , and it added tartly that story telling was quite impossible if people would come interrupting like that . 
'Oh , do shut up , for any sake ! said Cyril , sinking into a chair . 
Robert smoothed the ruffled golden feathers , adding kindly 'Squirrel doesn't mean to be a beast . 
It's only that the MOST AWFUL thing has happened , and stories don't seem to matter so much . 
You won't be when you've heard what's happened . 
'The most awful thing you can possibly think of , said Cyril . 
'That nice chap our own burglar the police have got him , on suspicion of stolen cats . 
That's what his brother's missis told me . 
'Oh , begin at the beginning ! cried Anthea impatiently . 
'Well , then , we went out , and down by where the undertaker's is , with the china flowers in the window you know . 
There was a crowd , and of course we went to have a squint . 
And it was two bobbies and our burglar between them , and he was being dragged along and he said , I tell you them cats was GIVE me . 
I got 'em in exchange for me milking a cow in a basement parlour up Camden Town way . 
And the policeman said he could tell all that to the magistrate in the morning . 
He didn't see us , and so we came away . 
'Oh , Cyril , how COULD you ? said Anthea . 
'Don't be a pudding head , Cyril advised . 
'A fat lot of good it would have done if we'd let him see us . 
No one would have believed a word we said . 
They'd have thought we were kidding . 
We did better than let him see us . 
We asked a boy where he lived and he told us , and we went there , and it's a little greengrocer's shop , and we bought some Brazil nuts . 
The girls waved away the Brazil nuts with loathing and contempt . 
'Well , we had to buy SOMETHING , and while we were making up our minds what to buy we heard his brother's missis talking . 
She said when he came home with all them miaoulers she thought there was more in it than met the eye . 
But he WOULD go out this morning with the two likeliest of them , one under each arm . 
And indeed it was time , for Cyril seemed like a clock that had been wound up , and could not help going on . 
'Where is he now ? 'At the police station , said Robert , for Cyril was out of breath . 
'The boy told us they'd put him in the cells , and would bring him up before the Beak in the morning . 
I thought it was a jolly lark last night getting him to take the cats but now 'The end of a lark , said the Phoenix , 'is the Beak . 
'Let's go to him , cried both the girls jumping up . 
'Let's go and tell the truth . 
'They CAN'T , said Cyril . 
'Just think ! If any one came to you with such a tale , you couldn't believe it , however much you tried . 
We should only mix things up worse for him . 
'There must be something we could do , said Jane , sniffing very much 'my own dear pet burglar ! I can't bear it . 
And he was so nice , the way he talked about his father , and how he was going to be so extra honest . 
Dear Phoenix , you MUST be able to help us . 
You're so good and kind and pretty and clever . 
Do , do tell us what to do . 
The Phoenix rubbed its beak thoughtfully with its claw . 
'You might rescue him , it said , 'and conceal him here , till the law supporters had forgotten about him . 
'That would be ages and ages , said Cyril , 'and we couldn't conceal him here . 
Father might come home at any moment , and if he found the burglar here HE wouldn't believe the true truth any more than the police would . 
That's the worst of the truth . 
Couldn't we take him somewhere else ? Jane clapped her hands . 
'The sunny southern shore ! she cried , 'where the cook is being queen . 
He and she would be company for each other ! And really the idea did not seem bad , if only he would consent to go . 
So , all talking at once , the children arranged to wait till evening , and then to seek the dear burglar in his lonely cell . 
Meantime Jane and Anthea darned away as hard as they could , to make the carpet as strong as possible . 
So they were ready for anything , and they stood on the carpet and said 'I wish we were in our burglar's lonely cell . 
I think every one had expected the cell to be the 'deepest dungeon below the castle moat' . 
Robert , remembering the underground passage and the treasure , had brought a candle and matches , but these were not needed . 
The cell was a little white washed room about twelve feet long and six feet wide . 
On one side of it was a sort of shelf sloping a little towards the wall . 
On this were two rugs , striped blue and yellow , and a water proof pillow . 
Rolled in the rugs , and with his head on the pillow , lay the burglar , fast asleep . 
The scene was plainly revealed by the light of a gas lamp in the passage outside , which shone into the cell through a pane of thick glass over the door . 
'I shall gag him , said Cyril , 'and Robert will hold him down . 
Anthea and Jane and the Phoenix can whisper soft nothings to him while he gradually awakes . 
Instantly steps were heard outside . 
Anthea threw her arms round the burglar and whispered 'It's us the ones that gave you the cats . 
We've come to save you , only don't let on we're here . 
It was an awful moment . 
Would the boots and the voice come in . 
Yes ! No ! The voice said 'Well , stow it , will you ? And the boots went heavily away , along the passage and up some sounding stone stairs . 
'Now then , whispered Anthea . 
'How the blue Moses did you get in ? asked the burglar , in a hoarse whisper of amazement . 
'On the carpet , said Jane , truly . 
'Stow that , said the burglar . 
'One on you I could 'a' swallowed , but four AND a yellow fowl . 
'Look here , said Cyril , sternly , 'you wouldn't have believed any one if they'd told you beforehand about your finding a cow and all those cats in our nursery . 
'That I wouldn't , said the burglar , with whispered fervour , 'so help me Bob , I wouldn't . 
'Well , then , Cyril went on , ignoring this appeal to his brother , 'just try to believe what we tell you and act accordingly . 
It can't do you any HARM , you know , he went on in hoarse whispered earnestness . 
'You can't be very much worse off than you are now , you know . 
But if you'll just trust to us we'll get you out of this right enough . 
No one saw us come in . 
The question is , where would you like to go ? 'I'd like to go to Boolong , was the instant reply of the burglar . 
'I've always wanted to go on that there trip , but I've never 'ad the ready at the right time of the year . 
'Boolong is a town like London , said Cyril , well meaning , but inaccurate , 'how could you get a living there ? The burglar scratched his head in deep doubt . 
'It's 'ard to get a 'onest living anywheres nowadays , he said , and his voice was sad . 
'Yes , isn't it ? said Jane , sympathetically 'but how about a sunny southern shore , where there's nothing to do at all unless you want to . 
'That's my billet , miss , replied the burglar . 
'I never did care about work not like some people , always fussing about . 
'Did you never like any sort of work ? asked Anthea , severely . 
'Lor' , lumme , yes , he answered , 'gardening was my 'obby , so it was . 
But father died afore 'e could bind me to a nurseryman , an' 'We'll take you to the sunny southern shore , said Jane 'you've no idea what the flowers are like . 
'Our old cook's there , said Anthea . 
'She's queen 'Oh , chuck it , the burglar whispered , clutching at his head with both hands . 
'I knowed the first minute I see them cats and that cow as it was a judgement on me . 
I don't know now whether I'm a standing on my hat or my boots , so help me I don't . 
'Come on to the carpet , then , said Anthea , gently shoving . 
The others quietly pulled , and the moment the feet of the burglar were planted on the carpet Anthea wished 'I wish we were all on the sunny southern shore where cook is . 
'Why , cook , you're quite pretty ! Anthea said , as soon as she had got her breath after the tumble rush whirl of the carpet . 
The burglar stood rubbing his eyes in the brilliant tropic sunlight , and gazing wildly round him on the vivid hues of the tropic land . 
'Penny plain and tuppence coloured ! he exclaimed pensively , 'and well worth any tuppence , however hard earned . 
The cook was seated on a grassy mound with her court of copper coloured savages around her . 
The burglar pointed a grimy finger at these . 
'Are they tame ? he asked anxiously . 
'Do they bite or scratch , or do anything to yer with poisoned arrows or oyster shells or that ? 'Don't you be so timid , said the cook . 
And the dream goes on and on , seemingly , as long as you behaves . 
The things what you has to eat and drink tastes just as good as real ones , and 'Look 'ere , said the burglar , 'I've come 'ere straight outer the pleece station . 
These 'ere kids'll tell you it ain't no blame er mine . 
'Well , you WERE a burglar , you know , said the truthful Anthea gently . 
'Only because I was druv to it by dishonest blokes , as well you knows , miss , rejoined the criminal . 
'Blowed if this ain't the 'ottest January as I've known for years . 
Cyril and Robert led him to a rocky pool , where he bathed luxuriously . 
Then , in shirt and trousers he sat on the sand and spoke . 
'That cook , or queen , or whatever you call her her with the white bokay on her 'ed she's my sort . 
Wonder if she'd keep company ! 'I should ask her . 
'I was always a quick hitter , the man went on 'it's a word and a blow with me . 
'Look 'ere , miss , he said . 
The cook smiled and looked down bashfully . 
'I'm a single man what you might call a batcheldore . 
I'm mild in my 'abits , which these kids'll tell you the same , and I'd like to 'ave the pleasure of walkin' out with you next Sunday . 
'Lor ! said the queen cook , ''ow sudden you are , mister . 
'Walking out means you're going to be married , said Anthea . 
'Why not get married and have done with it ? I would . 
'I don't mind if I do , said the burglar . 
But the cook said 'No , miss . 
Not me , not even in a dream . 
No , mister , thanking you kindly , if you can't bring a clergyman into the dream I'll live and die like what I am . 
'Will you marry her if we get a clergyman ? asked the match making Anthea . 
'I'm agreeable , miss , I m sure , said he , pulling his wreath straight . 
''Ow this 'ere bokay do tiddle a chap's ears to be sure ! So , very hurriedly , the carpet was spread out , and instructed to fetch a clergyman . 
The instructions were written on the inside of Cyril's cap with a piece of billiard chalk Robert had got from the marker at the hotel at Lyndhurst . 
The carpet disappeared , and more quickly than you would have thought possible it came back , bearing on its bosom the Reverend Septimus Blenkinsop . 
The effect of this was that he was only half there so that the children could just see through him , as though he had been a ghost . 
He seemed to himself to be in a sort of insane fit , so that it did not matter what he did and he married the burglar to the cook . 
And of course the clergyman , though misty , was really real , and able to marry people , and he did . 
When the ceremony was over the clergyman wandered about the island collecting botanical specimens , for he was a great botanist , and the ruling passion was strong even in an insane fit . 
There was a splendid wedding feast . 
'Ladies and gentlemen , he said , 'and savages of both kinds , only I know you can't understand what I'm a saying of , but we'll let that pass . 
If this is a dream , I'm on . 
If it ain't , I'm onner than ever . 
If it's betwixt and between well , I'm honest , and I can't say more . 
And there's one thing more , you might take away the parson . 
I don't like things what I can see 'alf through , so here's how ! He drained a coconut shell of palm wine . 
It was now past midnight though it was tea time on the island . 
With all good wishes the children took their leave . 
They also collected the clergyman and took him back to his study and his presentation clock . 
The Phoenix kindly carried the seeds next day to the burglar and his bride , and returned with the most satisfactory news of the happy pair . 
'He's made a wooden spade and started on his allotment , it said , 'and she is weaving him a shirt and trousers of the most radiant whiteness . 
The police never knew how the burglar got away . 
In Kentish Town Police Station his escape is still spoken of with bated breath as the Persian mystery . 
As for the Reverend Septimus Blenkinsop , he felt that he had had a very insane fit indeed , and he was sure it was due to over study . 
'How beautiful , it said , 'is filial devotion ! 'She won't be home till past bedtime , though , said Robert . 
'We might have one more carpet day . 
'I do wish we could go and get something nice for mother , only she'd want to know where we got it , said Anthea . 
'And she'd never , never believe it , the truth . 
People never do , somehow , if it's at all interesting . 
'I'll tell you what , said Robert . 
'Suppose we wished the carpet to take us somewhere where we could find a purse with money in it then we could buy her something . 
'Well , now you HAVE done it , said Robert . 
But Anthea was a really first class sister . 
Cyril thumped her on the back . 
He understood exactly how she had felt , and he was not an ungrateful brother . 
It would be indeed a cold moment when you should find a purse containing but three oboloi . 
'How much is an oboloi ? 'An obol is about twopence halfpenny , the Phoenix replied . 
'Yes , said Jane , 'and if you find a purse I suppose it is only because some one has lost it , and you ought to take it to the policeman . 
'The situation , remarked the Phoenix , 'does indeed bristle with difficulties . 
'What about a buried treasure , said Cyril , 'and every one was dead that it belonged to ? 'Mother wouldn't believe THAT , said more than one voice . 
'No , THAT wouldn't do , said Cyril . 
'Let's chuck it and go to the North Pole , or somewhere really interesting . 
'No , said the girls together , 'there must be SOME way . 
'Wait a sec , Anthea added . 
'I've got an idea coming . 
There was a silence as she paused with the darning needle in the air ! Suddenly she spoke 'I see . 
Let's tell the carpet to take us somewhere where we can get the money for mother's present , and and and get it some way that she'll believe in and not think wrong . 
'Well , I must say you are learning the way to get the most out of the carpet , said Cyril . 
He spoke more heartily and kindly than usual , because he remembered how Anthea had refrained from snarking him about tearing the carpet . 
'Yes , said the Phoenix , 'you certainly are . 
And you have to remember that if you take a thing out it doesn't stay in . 
No one paid any attention to this remark at the time , but afterwards every one thought of it . 
Then every one put on its outdoor things , the Phoenix fluttered on to the mantelpiece and arranged its golden feathers in the glass , and all was ready . 
Every one got on to the carpet . 
'Please go slowly , dear carpet , Anthea began we like to see where we're going . 
And then she added the difficult wish that had been decided on . 
Next moment the carpet , stiff and raftlike , was sailing over the roofs of Kentish Town . 
'I wish No , I don't mean that . 
I mean it's a PITY we aren't higher up , said Anthea , as the edge of the carpet grazed a chimney pot . 
Be careful , said the Phoenix , in warning tones . 
'If you wish when you're on a wishing carpet , you DO wish , and there's an end of it . 
So for a short time no one spoke , and the carpet sailed on in calm magnificence over St Pancras and King's Cross stations and over the crowded streets of Clerkenwell . 
'We're going out Greenwich way , said Cyril , as they crossed the streak of rough , tumbled water that was the Thames . 
'We might go and have a look at the Palace . 
On and on the carpet swept , still keeping much nearer to the chimney pots than the children found at all comfortable . 
And then , just over New Cross , a terrible thing happened . 
Jane and Robert were in the middle of the carpet . 
Part of them was on the carpet , and part of them the heaviest part was on the great central darn . 
'It's all very misty , said Jane 'it looks partly like out of doors and partly like in the nursery at home . 
I feel as if I was going to have measles everything looked awfully rum then , remember . 
'I feel just exactly the same , Robert said . 
'It's the hole , said the Phoenix 'it's not measles whatever that possession may be . 
The carpet seemed to awaken to new energy as soon as it had got rid of their weight , and it rose high in the air . 
The others lay down flat and peeped over the edge of the rising carpet . 
'Oh , how awful ! said Anthea . 
'It might have been worse , said the Phoenix . 
'What would have been the sentiments of the survivors if that darn had given way when we were crossing the river ? 'Yes , there's that , said Cyril , recovering himself . 
They'll howl till some one gets them down , or drop tiles into the front garden to attract attention of passersby . 
Bobs has got my one and fivepence lucky you forgot to mend that hole in my pocket , Panther , or he wouldn't have had it . 
They can tram it home . 
But Anthea would not be comforted . 
'It's all my fault , she said . 
'I KNEW the proper way to darn , and I didn't do it . 
Let's go home and patch the carpet with your Etons something really strong and send it to fetch them . 
'All right , said Cyril 'but your Sunday jacket is stronger than my Etons . 
We must just chuck mother's present , that's all . 
I wish 'Stop ! cried the Phoenix 'the carpet is dropping to earth . 
It sank swiftly , yet steadily , and landed on the pavement of the Deptford Road . 
It tipped a little as it landed , so that Cyril and Anthea naturally walked off it , and in an instant it had rolled itself up and hidden behind a gate post . 
It did this so quickly that not a single person in the Deptford Road noticed it . 
'We DID think of going to Greenwich Palace and talking about Nelson , said Cyril , telling as much of the truth as he thought his uncle could believe . 
'And where are the others ? asked Uncle Reginald . 
'I don't exactly know , Cyril replied , this time quite truthfully . 
'Well , said Uncle Reginald , 'I must fly . 
I've a case in the County Court . 
That's the worst of being a beastly solicitor . 
One can't take the chances of life when one gets them . 
If only I could come with you to the Painted Hall and give you lunch at the Ship afterwards ! But , alas ! it may not be . 
The uncle felt in his pocket . 
I mustn't enjoy myself , he said , 'but that's no reason why you shouldn't . 
Here , divide this by four , and the product ought to give you some desired result . 
'Well ! said the Phoenix . 
'Good old carpet ! said Cyril , joyously . 
'It WAS clever of it so adequate and yet so simple , said the Phoenix , with calm approval . 
'Oh , come on home and let's mend the carpet . 
I'd forgotten the others just for a minute , said the conscience stricken Anthea . 
The kindness of their excellent uncle had made it unnecessary for them to go to such extremes as Cyril's Etons or Anthea's Sunday jacket for the patching of the carpet . 
It was the strongest thing he could think of . 
Then they set to work to line the carpet throughout with the oil cloth . 
The nursery felt very odd and empty without the others , and Cyril did not feel so sure as he had done about their being able to 'tram it' home . 
So he tried to help Anthea , which was very good of him , but not much use to her . 
The Phoenix watched them for a time , but it was plainly growing more and more restless . 
It fluffed up its splendid feathers , and stood first on one gilded claw and then on the other , and at last it said 'I can bear it no longer . 
The Phoenix flapped its sunbright wings and vanished . 
'So THAT'S all right , said Cyril , taking up his needle and instantly pricking his hand in a new place . 
But I had to tell you the other first . 
That is one of the most annoying things about stories , you cannot tell all the different parts of them at the same time . 
Robert's first remark when he found himself seated on the damp , cold , sooty leads was 'Here's a go ! Jane's first act was tears . 
'Dry up , Pussy don't be a little duffer , said her brother , kindly , 'it'll be all right . 
He could not find anything . 
Curiously enough , there were no stones on the leads , not even a loose tile . 
The roof was of slate , and every single slate knew its place and kept it . 
But , as so often happens , in looking for one thing he found another . 
There was a trap door leading down into the house . 
And that trap door was not fastened . 
'Stop snivelling and come here , Jane , he cried , encouragingly . 
'Lend a hand to heave this up . 
If we can get into the house , we might sneak down without meeting any one , with luck . 
'Oh , my cats alive ! They were indeed discovered . 
They found themselves looking down into an attic , which was also a lumber room . 
It had boxes and broken chairs , old fenders and picture frames , and rag bags hanging from nails . 
In the middle of the floor was a box , open , half full of clothes . 
Other clothes lay on the floor in neat piles . 
In the middle of the piles of clothes sat a lady , very fat indeed , with her feet sticking out straight in front of her . 
And it was she who had screamed , and who , in fact , was still screaming . 
'Don't ! cried Jane , 'please don't ! We won't hurt you . 
'Where are the rest of your gang ? asked the lady , stopping short in the middle of a scream . 
'The others have gone on , on the wishing carpet , said Jane truthfully . 
'The wishing carpet ? said the lady . 
'Yes , said Jane , before Robert could say 'You shut up ! 'You must have read about it . 
The Phoenix is with them . 
Then the lady got up , and picking her way carefully between the piles of clothes she got to the door and through it . 
She shut it behind her , and the two children could hear her calling 'Septimus ! Septimus ! in a loud yet frightened way . 
'Now , said Robert quickly 'I'll drop first . 
He hung by his hands and dropped through the trap door . 
Oh , there's no time for jaw . 
Then , when all is calm , we'll creep down the stairs and take our chance . 
'Gone ! said the first lady 'poor little things quite mad , my dear and at large ! We must lock this room and send for the police . 
'Let me look out , said the second lady , who was , if possible , older and thinner and primmer than the first . 
'Now , whispered Robert , getting the bedstead leg out of his side . 
They managed to creep out from their hiding place and out through the door before the two ladies had done looking out of the trap door on to the empty leads . 
Robert and Jane tiptoed down the stairs one flight , two flights . 
Then they looked over the banisters . 
Horror ! a servant was coming up with a loaded scuttle . 
The children with one consent crept swiftly through the first open door . 
The room was a study , calm and gentlemanly , with rows of books , a writing table , and a pair of embroidered slippers warming themselves in the fender . 
The children hid behind the window curtains . 
As they passed the table they saw on it a missionary box with its bottom label torn off , open and empty . 
'Oh , how awful ! whispered Jane . 
'We shall never get away alive . 
'Hush ! said Robert , not a moment too soon , for there were steps on the stairs , and next instant the two ladies came into the room . 
They did not see the children , but they saw the empty missionary box . 
'I knew it , said one . 
'Selina , it WAS a gang . 
I was certain of it from the first . 
The children were not mad . 
They were sent to distract our attention while their confederates robbed the house . 
'Oh , don't be so rash and heroic , said Selina . 
'Amelia , we must call the police from the window . 
I WILL I will The words ended in a yell as Selina , rushing to the window , came face to face with the hidden children . 
'Oh , don't ! said Jane 'how can you be so unkind ? We AREN'T burglars , and we haven't any gang , and we didn't open your missionary box . 
The children found themselves held fast by strong , slim hands , pink at the wrists and white at the knuckles . 
'We've got YOU , at any rate , said Miss Amelia . 
'Selina , your captive is smaller than mine . 
You open the window at once and call Murder ! as loud as you can . 
Selina obeyed but when she had opened the window , instead of calling 'Murder ! she called 'Septimus ! because at that very moment she saw her nephew coming in at the gate . 
In another minute he had let himself in with his latch key and had mounted the stairs . 
As he came into the room Jane and Robert each uttered a shriek of joy so loud and so sudden that the ladies leaped with surprise , and nearly let them go . 
'It's our own clergyman , cried Jane . 
'Don't you remember us ? asked Robert . 
'You married our burglar for us don't you remember ? 'I KNEW it was a gang , said Amelia . 
'Septimus , these abandoned children are members of a desperate burgling gang who are robbing the house . 
They have already forced the missionary box and purloined its contents . 
The Reverend Septimus passed his hand wearily over his brow . 
'I feel a little faint , he said , 'running upstairs so quickly . 
'We never touched the beastly box , said Robert . 
'Then your confederates did , said Miss Selina . 
'No , no , said the curate , hastily . 
I opened the box myself . 
This morning I found I had not enough small change for the Mothers' Independent Unity Measles and Croup Insurance payments . 
I suppose this is NOT a dream , is it ? 'Dream ? No , indeed . 
The curate , still pale and trembling , searched the house , which , of course , was blamelessly free of burglars . 
When he came back he sank wearily into his chair . 
'We've never done anything to you . 
It dropped us on the leads . 
You know how it carried you over to the island , and you had to marry the burglar to the cook . 
'Oh , my head ! said the curate . 
'Send for the police , said Miss Selina . 
'Send for a doctor , said the curate . 
'Do you think they ARE mad , then , said Miss Amelia . 
'I think I am , said the curate . 
Jane had been crying ever since her capture . 
Now she said 'You aren't now , but perhaps you will be , if And it would serve you jolly well right , too . 
'Aunt Selina , said the curate , 'and Aunt Amelia , believe me , this is only an insane dream . 
You will realize it soon . 
It has happened to me before . 
But do not let us be unjust , even in a dream . 
Do not hold the children they have done no harm . 
As I said before , it was I who opened the box . 
The strong , bony hands unwillingly loosened their grasp . 
Robert shook himself and stood in sulky resentment . 
But Jane ran to the curate and embraced him so suddenly that he had not time to defend himself . 
'You're a dear , she said . 
'It IS like a dream just at first , but you get used to it . 
Now DO let us go . 
There's a good , kind , honourable clergyman . 
'I don't know , said the Reverend Septimus 'it's a difficult problem . 
It is such a very unusual dream . 
Perhaps it's only a sort of other life quite real enough for you to be mad in . 
And if you're mad , there might be a dream asylum where you'd be kindly treated , and in time restored , cured , to your sorrowing relatives . 
A really conscientious curate is a very difficult thing to manage . 
And the next moment they had vanished , and the Reverend Septimus was left alone with his aunts . 
'I knew it was a dream , he cried , wildly . 
'I've had something like it before . 
Did you dream it too , Aunt Selina , and you , Aunt Amelia ? I dreamed that you did , you know . 
Aunt Selina looked at him and then at Aunt Amelia . 
Then she said boldly 'What do you mean ? WE haven't been dreaming anything . 
You must have dropped off in your chair . 
The curate heaved a sigh of relief . 
But I could see the poor dear fellow's brain giving way before my very eyes . 
He couldn't have stood the strain of three dreams . 
It WAS odd , wasn't it ? All three of us dreaming the same thing at the same moment . 
We must never tell dear Seppy . 
But I shall send an account of it to the Psychical Society , with stars instead of names , you know . 
And you can read all about it in one of the society's fat Blue books . 
Of course , you understand what had happened ? The intelligent Phoenix had simply gone straight off to the Psammead , and had wished Robert and Jane at home . 
And , of course , they were at home at once . 
Cyril and Anthea had not half finished mending the carpet . 
When the joyful emotions of reunion had calmed down a little , they all went out and spent what was left of Uncle Reginald's sovereign in presents for mother . 
Also they bought a cake with icing on , and the rest of the money they spent on flowers to put in the vases . 
Then Robert said , 'Good old Psammead , and the others said so too . 
'But , really , it's just as much good old Phoenix , said Robert . 
'Suppose it hadn't thought of getting the wish ! 'Ah ! said the Phoenix , 'it is perhaps fortunate for you that I am such a competent bird . 
'There's mother's cab , cried Anthea , and the Phoenix hid and they lighted the candles , and next moment mother was home again . 
She liked her presents very much , and found their story of Uncle Reginald and the sovereign easy and even pleasant to believe . 
'Good old carpet , were Cyril's last sleepy words . 
'What there is of it , said the Phoenix , from the cornice pole . 
A soft 'Oh ! of contradiction sprang to the lips of Cyril , Robert , Jane , and Anthea . 
Mother looked at them quickly , and said 'Well , of course , I see you've mended it very nicely , and that was sweet of you , dears . 
'The boys helped too , said the dears , honourably . 
'But , still twenty two and ninepence ! It ought to have lasted for years . 
Well , never mind , darlings , you've done your best . 
I think we'll have coconut matting next time . 
'No , dear , we can't help our boots , said mother , cheerfully , 'but we might change them when we come in , perhaps . 
It's just an idea of mine . 
I wouldn't dream of scolding on the very first morning after I've come home . 
Mother was very clever , but even she could not quite understand the cook's accounts . 
The Lamb was very glad to have his brothers and sisters to play with him . 
There was also climbing Vesuvius . 
'All the same , I wish we could decide what we'd better say next time mother says anything about the carpet , said Cyril , breathlessly ceasing to be a burning mountain . 
'Well , you talk and decide , said Anthea 'here , you lovely ducky Lamb . 
Come to Panther and play Noah's Ark . 
'Crocky , said the Lamb , and showed all his little teeth . 
So Anthea went on 'I love my little crocodile , I love his truthful toothful smile It is so wonderful and wide , I like to see it FROM OUTSIDE . 
'Well , you see , Cyril was saying 'it's just the old bother . 
'Now hear the wisdom of Phoenix , the son of the Phoenix 'There is a society called that , said Cyril . 
'Where is it ? And what is a society ? asked the bird . 
'It's a sort of joined together lot of people a sort of brotherhood a kind of well , something very like your temple , you know , only quite different . 
'I take your meaning , said the Phoenix . 
'I would fain see these calling themselves Sons of the Phoenix' 'But what about your words of wisdom ? 'Wisdom is always welcome , said the Phoenix . 
'Pretty Polly ! remarked the Lamb , reaching his hands towards the golden speaker . 
'I don't think you'd care about the sons of the Phoenix , really , said Robert . 
'I have heard that they don't do anything fiery . 
They only drink a great deal . 
Much more than other people , because they drink lemonade and fizzy things , and the more you drink of those the more good you get . 
'In your mind , perhaps , said Jane 'but it wouldn't be good in your body . 
'Look here , said Anthea 'I really have an idea . 
This isn't like a common carpet . 
But with all its faults Anthea's idea was something to do , and they did it . 
It was Cyril who fetched the Tatcho bottle from father's washhand stand . 
But the bottle had not much in it . 
'We mustn't take it all , Jane said , 'in case father's hair began to come off suddenly . 
If he hadn't anything to put on it , it might all drop off before Eliza had time to get round to the chemist's for another bottle . 
It would be dreadful to have a bald father , and it would all be our fault . 
'And wigs are very expensive , I believe , said Anthea . 
'Look here , leave enough in the bottle to wet father's head all over with in case any emergency emerges and let's make up with paraffin . 
I expect it's the smell that does the good really and the smell's exactly the same . 
Then the flannel was burned . 
It made a gay flame , which delighted the Phoenix and the Lamb . 
It was no use telling mother what they had done to the carpet . 
She did not know it was a magic carpet , and no one wants to be laughed at for trying to mend an ordinary carpet with lamp oil . 
'Well , don't do it again , said mother . 
'And now , away with melancholy ! Father has sent a telegram . 
Look ! She held it out , and the children , holding it by its yielding corners , read 'Box for kiddies at Garrick . 
Stalls for us , Haymarket . 
'That means , said mother , 'that you're going to see The Water Babies all by your happy selves , and father and I will take you and fetch you . 
Give me the Lamb , dear , and you and Jane put clean lace in your red evening frocks , and I shouldn't wonder if you found they wanted ironing . 
This paraffin smell is ghastly . 
Run and get out your frocks . 
They were very nice tableaux , these , and I wish I could tell you about them but one cannot tell everything in a story . 
By four o'clock Jane was almost sure that several hairs were beginning to grow . 
The Phoenix perched on the fender , and its conversation , as usual , was entertaining and instructive like school prizes are said to be . 
But it seemed a little absent minded , and even a little sad . 
'Don't you feel well , Phoenix , dear ? asked Anthea , stooping to take an iron off the fire . 
'I am not sick , replied the golden bird , with a gloomy shake of the head 'but I am getting old . 
'Why , you've hardly been hatched any time at all . 
'Time , remarked the Phoenix , 'is measured by heartbeats . 
I'm sure the palpitations I've had since I've known you are enough to blanch the feathers of any bird . 
'But I thought you lived years , said Robert , and you've hardly begun this set of years . 
Think of all the time that's before you . 
'Time , said the Phoenix , 'is , as you are probably aware , merely a convenient fiction . 
There is no such thing as time . 
I have lived in these two months at a pace which generously counterbalances years of life in the desert . 
I am old , I am weary . 
I feel as if I ought to lay my egg , and lay me down to my fiery sleep . 
But unless I'm careful I shall be hatched again instantly , and that is a misfortune which I really do not think I COULD endure . 
But do not let me intrude these desperate personal reflections on your youthful happiness . 
There are chimney sweeps and professors , and a lobster and an otter and a salmon , and children living in the water . 
The Phoenix shivered , and went to sit on the tongs . 
'I don't suppose there will be REAL water , said Jane . 
'And theatres are very warm and pretty , with a lot of gold and lamps . 
Wouldn't you like to come with us ? I was just going to say that , said Robert , in injured tones , 'only I know how rude it is to interrupt . 
Do come , Phoenix , old chap it will cheer you up . 
It'll make you laugh like any thing . 
Mr Bourchier always makes ripping plays . 
You ought to have seen Shock headed Peter last year . 
'Your words are strange , said the Phoenix , 'but I will come with you . 
The revels of this Bourchier , of whom you speak , may help me to forget the weight of my years . 
So that evening the Phoenix snugged inside the waistcoat of Robert's Etons a very tight fit it seemed both to Robert and to the Phoenix and was taken to the play . 
Robert pretended that he was too cold to take off his great coat , and so sat sweltering through what would otherwise have been a most thrilling meal . 
He felt that he was a blot on the smart beauty of the family , and he hoped the Phoenix knew what he was suffering for its sake . 
Father was full of jokes and fun , and every one laughed all the time , even with their mouths full , which is not manners . 
Robert thought father would not have been quite so funny about his keeping his over coat on if father had known all the truth . 
And there Robert was probably right . 
Father's parting words were 'Now , don't you stir out of this box , whatever you do . 
I shall be back before the end of the play . 
Be good and you will be happy . 
He went , and Robert was at last able to remove his coat , mop his perspiring brow , and release the crushed and dishevelled Phoenix . 
They were very , very early . 
When the lights went up fully , the Phoenix , balancing itself on the gilded back of a chair , swayed in ecstasy . 
Hush ! the music is beginning . 
I am not going to tell you about the play . 
As I said before , one can't tell everything , and no doubt you saw 'The Water Babies' yourselves . 
If you did not it was a shame , or , rather , a pity . 
'This is indeed my temple , it said again and again . 
'What radiant rites ! And all to do honour to me ! The songs in the play it took to be hymns in its honour . 
The choruses were choric songs in its praise . 
The electric lights , it said , were magic torches lighted for its sake , and it was so charmed with the footlights that the children could hardly persuade it to sit still . 
But when the limelight was shown it could contain its approval no longer . 
'It wasn't us , indeed it wasn't , said Anthea , earnestly 'it was the bird . 
The man said well , then , they must keep their bird very quiet . 
'Disturbing every one like this , he said . 
'It won't do it again , said Robert , glancing imploringly at the golden bird 'I'm sure it won't . 
'You have my leave to depart , said the Phoenix gently . 
'Well , he is a beauty , and no mistake , said the attendant , 'only I'd cover him up during the acts . 
What happened next was entirely the fault of the Phoenix . 
It was not in the least the fault of the theatre people , and no one could ever understand afterwards how it did happen . 
No one , that is , except the guilty bird itself and the four children . 
The Phoenix was balancing itself on the gilt back of the chair , swaying backwards and forwards and up and down , as you may see your own domestic parrot do . 
I mean the grey one with the red tail . 
It seemed to have made but one circular wing sweep , such as you may see a gull make over grey water on a stormy day . 
People whispered then people shrieked . 
'Fire ! Fire ! The curtain went down the lights went up . 
'Fire ! cried every one , and made for the doors . 
'A magnificent idea ! said the Phoenix , complacently . 
'An enormous altar fire supplied free of charge . 
Doesn't the incense smell delicious ? The only smell was the stifling smell of smoke , of burning silk , or scorching varnish . 
The little flames had opened now into great flame flowers . 
The people in the theatre were shouting and pressing towards the doors . 
'Oh , how COULD you ! cried Jane . 
'Father said stay here , said Anthea , very pale , and trying to speak in her ordinary voice . 
'He didn't mean stay and be roasted , said Robert . 
'No boys on burning decks for me , thank you . 
'Not much , said Cyril , and he opened the door of the box . 
But a fierce waft of smoke and hot air made him shut it again . 
It was not possible to get out that way . 
They looked over the front of the box . 
Could they climb down ? It would be possible , certainly but would they be much better off ? 'Look at the people , moaned Anthea 'we couldn't get through . 
And , indeed , the crowd round the doors looked as thick as flies in the jam making season . 
'I wish we'd never seen the Phoenix , cried Jane . 
Even at that awful moment Robert looked round to see if the bird had overheard a speech which , however natural , was hardly polite or grateful . 
'Look here , said Cyril , 'I've read about fires in papers I'm sure it's all right . 
Let's wait here , as father said . 
'We can't do anything else , said Anthea bitterly . 
'Look here , said Robert , 'I'm NOT frightened no , I'm not . 
The Phoenix has never been a skunk yet , and I'm certain it'll see us through somehow . 
I believe in the Phoenix ! 'The Phoenix thanks you , O Robert , said a golden voice at his feet , and there was the Phoenix itself , on the Wishing Carpet . 
'Stand on those portions of the carpet which are truly antique and authentic and A sudden jet of flame stopped its words . 
The children tried in vain to stamp it out . 
They had to stand back and let it burn itself out . 
When the paraffin had burned away it was found that it had taken with it all the darns of Scotch heather mixture fingering . 
Only the fabric of the old carpet was left and that was full of holes . 
'Come , said the Phoenix , 'I'm cool now . 
The four children got on to what was left of the carpet . 
Very careful they were not to leave a leg or a hand hanging over one of the holes . 
It was very hot the theatre was a pit of fire . 
Every one else had got out . 
Jane had to sit on Anthea's lap . 
'Home ! said Cyril , and instantly the cool draught from under the nursery door played upon their legs as they sat . 
Four long breaths of deep relief were instantly breathed . 
The draught which they had never liked before was for the moment quite pleasant . 
And every one else was safe . 
The theatre had been quite empty when they left . 
Every one was sure of that . 
They presently found themselves all talking at once . 
Somehow none of their adventures had given them so much to talk about . 
None other had seemed so real . 
'Did you notice ? they said , and 'Do you remember ? When suddenly Anthea's face turned pale under the dirt which it had collected on it during the fire . 
'Oh , she cried , 'mother and father ! Oh , how awful ! They'll think we're burned to cinders . 
Oh , let's go this minute and tell them we aren't . 
'We should only miss them , said the sensible Cyril . 
'Well YOU go then , said Anthea , 'or I will . 
Only do wash your face first . 
Mother will be sure to think you are burnt to a cinder if she sees you as black as that , and she'll faint or be ill or something . 
Oh , I wish we'd never got to know that Phoenix . 
'Hush ! said Robert 'it's no use being rude to the bird . 
I suppose it can't help its nature . 
Perhaps we'd better wash too . 
Now I come to think of it my hands are rather No one had noticed the Phoenix since it had bidden them to step on the carpet . 
And no one noticed that no one had noticed . 
'But how did you guess we'd come home , said Cyril , later , when every one was calm enough for talking . 
'Well , it was rather a rum thing . 
We heard the Garrick was on fire , and of course we went straight there , said father , briskly . 
'We couldn't find you , of course and we couldn't get in but the firemen told us every one was safely out . 
And then I heard a voice at my ear say , Cyril , Anthea , Robert , and Jane and something touched me on the shoulder . 
It was a great yellow pigeon , and it got in the way of my seeing who'd spoken . 
Dazed by the fire , I suppose . 
Your mother said it was the voice of 'I said it was the bird that spoke , said mother , 'and so it was . 
Or at least I thought so then . 
It was an orange coloured cockatoo . 
I don't care who it was that spoke . 
It was true and you're safe . 
Mother began to cry again , and father said bed was a good place after the pleasures of the stage . 
So every one went there . 
Robert had a talk to the Phoenix that night . 
'Oh , very well , said the bird , when Robert had said what he felt , 'didn't you know that I had power over fire ? Do not distress yourself . 
I , like my high priests in Lombard Street , can undo the work of flames . 
That was why the papers said next day that the fire at the theatre had done less damage than had been anticipated . 
As a matter of fact it had done none , for the Phoenix spent the night in putting things straight . 
How the management accounted for this , and how many of the theatre officials still believe that they were mad on that night will never be known . 
Next day mother saw the burnt holes in the carpet . 
'It caught where it was paraffiny , said Anthea . 
'I must get rid of that carpet at once , said mother . 
But what the children said in sad whispers to each other , as they pondered over last night's events , was 'We must get rid of that Phoenix . 
She crept into mother's room and set the tray on a chair . 
Then she pulled one of the blinds up very softly . 
'Is your head better , mammy dear ? she asked , in the soft little voice that she kept expressly for mother's headaches . 
'I've brought your brekkie , and I've put the little cloth with clover leaves on it , the one I made you . 
'That's very nice , said mother sleepily . 
Anthea knew exactly what to do for mothers with headaches who had breakfast in bed . 
She fetched warm water and put just enough eau de Cologne in it , and bathed mother's face and hands with the sweet scented water . 
Then mother was able to think about breakfast . 
'But what's the matter with my girl ? she asked , when her eyes got used to the light . 
'Oh , I'm so sorry you're ill , Anthea said . 
'It's that horrible fire and you being so frightened . 
And we all feel as if it was our faults . 
I can't explain , but 'It wasn't your fault a bit , you darling goosie , mother said . 
'How could it be ? 'That's just what I can't tell you , said Anthea . 
'I haven't got a futile brain like you and father , to think of ways of explaining everything . 
'My futile brain or did you mean fertile ? anyway , it feels very stiff and sore this morning but I shall be quite all right by and by . 
And don't be a silly little pet girl . 
The fire wasn't your faults . 
No I don't want the egg , dear . 
I'll go to sleep again , I think . 
And tell cook not to bother me about meals . 
You can order what you like for lunch . 
Anthea closed the door very mousily , and instantly went downstairs and ordered what she liked for lunch . 
She ordered a pair of turkeys , a large plum pudding , cheese cakes , and almonds and raisins . 
Cook told her to go along , do . 
When Anthea rejoined the others she found them all plunged in the gloom where she was herself . 
For every one knew that the days of the carpet were now numbered . 
Indeed , so worn was it that you could almost have numbered its threads . 
'We shall be just like them , Cyril said . 
'Except , said Robert , 'that we shall have more things to remember and be sorry we haven't got . 
'Mother's going to send away the carpet as soon as she's well enough to see about that coconut matting . 
Fancy us with coconut matting us ! And we've walked under live coconut trees on the island where you can't have whooping cough . 
'Pretty island , said the Lamb 'paint box sands and sea all shiny sparkly . 
His brothers and sisters had often wondered whether he remembered that island . 
Now they knew that he did . 
'Yes , said Cyril 'no more cheap return trips by carpet for us that's a dead cert . 
They were all talking about the carpet , but what they were all thinking about was the Phoenix . 
The golden bird had been so kind , so friendly , so polite , so instructive and now it had set fire to a theatre and made mother ill . 
It had acted in a perfectly natural manner . 
But every one saw that it must not be asked to prolong its visit . 
Each child was quite sure that one of them ought to speak out in a fair and manly way , but nobody wanted to be the one . 
Anthea was so anxious that the Phoenix should not understand what she said that she made a speech completely baffling to all . 
It was not till she pointed to the cupboard in which all believed the Phoenix to be that Cyril understood . 
'How beautifully you do do it , said Anthea , absently beginning to build a card house for the Lamb 'mixing up what you're saying , I mean . 
We ought to practise doing it so as to be ready for mysterious occasions . 
We're talking about THAT , she said to Jane and Robert , frowning , and nodding towards the cupboard where the Phoenix was . 
Then Robert and Jane understood , and each opened its mouth to speak . 
'The ancient philosophers , said a golden voice , 'Well understood the art of which you speak . 
Of course it was the Phoenix , who had not been in the cupboard at all , but had been cocking a golden eye at them from the cornice during the whole conversation . 
'Pretty dickie ! remarked the Lamb . 
'CANARY dickie ! 'Poor misguided infant , said the Phoenix . 
There was a painful pause the four could not but think it likely that the Phoenix had understood their very veiled allusions , accompanied as they had been by gestures indicating the cupboard . 
For the Phoenix was not wanting in intelligence . 
'We were just saying Cyril began , and I hope he was not going to say anything but the truth . 
Whatever it was he did not say it , for the Phoenix interrupted him , and all breathed more freely as it spoke . 
'I gather , it said , 'that you have some tidings of a fatal nature to communicate to our degraded black brothers who run to and fro for ever yonder . 
It pointed a claw at the cupboard , where the blackbeetles lived . 
'Canary TALK , said the Lamb joyously 'go and show mammy . 
He wriggled off Anthea's lap . 
'Mammy's asleep , said Jane , hastily . 
'Come and be wild beasts in a cage under the table . 
'Ah , said the bird , 'it isn't long for this world . 
'No , said Robert 'everything comes to an end . 
'Sometimes the end is peace , remarked the Phoenix . 
'I imagine that unless it comes soon the end of your carpet will be pieces . 
'Yes , said Cyril , respectfully kicking what was left of the carpet . 
The movement of its bright colours caught the eye of the Lamb , who went down on all fours instantly and began to pull at the red and blue threads . 
the middle of the floor showed bare , an island of boards surrounded by a sea of linoleum . 
The magic carpet was gone , AND SO WAS THE LAMB ! There was a horrible silence . 
The Lamb the baby , all alone had been wafted away on that untrustworthy carpet , so full of holes and magic . 
And no one could know where he was . 
And no one could follow him because there was now no carpet to follow on . 
Jane burst into tears , but Anthea , though pale and frantic , was dry eyed . 
'It MUST be a dream , she said . 
'That's what the clergyman said , remarked Robert forlornly 'but it wasn't , and it isn't . 
'But the Lamb never wished , said Cyril 'he was only talking Bosh . 
'The carpet understands all speech , said the Phoenix , 'even Bosh . 
I know not this Boshland , but be assured that its tongue is not unknown to the carpet . 
'There I think you're wrong , said Cyril 'even people who talk English sometimes say things that don't mean anything in particular . 
'And WHAT did it mean ? Oh WHAT ? 'Unfortunately , the bird rejoined , 'I never studied Bosh . 
Jane sobbed noisily , but the others were calm with what is sometimes called the calmness of despair . 
He had gone alone into the great world with no other companion and protector than a carpet with holes in it . 
The children had never really understood before what an enormously big place the world is . 
And the Lamb might be anywhere in it ! 'And it's no use going to look for him . 
Cyril , in flat and wretched tones , only said what the others were thinking . 
'Do you wish him to return ? the Phoenix asked it seemed to speak with some surprise . 
'Of course we do ! cried everybody . 
'Isn't he more trouble than he's worth ? asked the bird doubtfully . 
Cyril flung open the window , and the Phoenix popped out . 
'Oh , if only mother goes on sleeping ! Oh , suppose she wakes up and wants the Lamb ! Oh , suppose the servants come ! Stop crying , Jane . 
No , I'm not crying myself at least I wasn't till you said so , and I shouldn't anyway if if there was any mortal thing we could do . 
Oh , oh , oh ! Cyril and Robert were boys , and boys never cry , of course . 
Still , the position was a terrible one , and I do not wonder that they made faces in their efforts to behave in a really manly way . 
And at this awful moment mother's bell rang . 
A breathless stillness held the children . 
Then Anthea dried her eyes . 
She looked round her and caught up the poker . 
She held it out to Cyril . 
'Hit my hand hard , she said 'I must show mother some reason for my eyes being like they are . 
Harder , she cried as Cyril gently tapped her with the iron handle . 
And Cyril , agitated and trembling , nerved himself to hit harder , and hit very much harder than he intended . 
'Oh , Panther , I didn't mean to hurt , really , cried Cyril , clattering the poker back into the fender . 
'It's all right , said Anthea breathlessly , clasping the hurt hand with the one that wasn't hurt 'it's getting red . 
It was a round red and blue bump was rising on the back of it . 
Anthea was now ready to deceive her mother for as long as ever she could . 
Deceit is very wrong , we know , but it seemed to Anthea that it was her plain duty to keep her mother from being frightened about the Lamb as long as possible . 
And the Phoenix might help . 
'It always has helped , Robert said 'it got us out of the tower , and even when it made the fire in the theatre it got us out all right . 
I'm certain it will manage somehow . 
'Oh , Eliza's never answered it , cried Anthea 'she never does . 
Oh , I must go . 
Her heart beat bumpingly as she climbed the stairs . 
Mother would be certain to notice her eyes well , her hand would account for that . 
Her arms and legs and back , and even her tear reddened face , felt stiff with her resolution not to let mother be worried if she could help it . 
She opened the door softly . 
'Yes , mother ? she said . 
'Dearest , said mother , 'the Lamb Anthea tried to be brave . 
She tried to say that the Lamb and Robert were out . 
Perhaps she tried too hard . 
Anyway , when she opened her mouth no words came . 
So she stood with it open . 
It seemed easier to keep from crying with one's mouth in that unusual position . 
And I can't see him from here , and if I'd got out of bed to see I'm sure I should have fainted . 
'Do you mean he's HERE ? said Anthea . 
'Of course he's here , said mother , a little impatiently . 
'Where did you think he was ? Anthea went round the foot of the big mahogany bed . 
'He's not here NOW , she said . 
'He must have crept out , then , said mother 'do keep him with you , there's a darling . 
If I don't get some sleep I shall be a wreck when father comes home . 
Anthea closed the door softly . 
Then she tore downstairs and burst into the nursery , crying 'He must have wished he was with mother . 
He's been there all the time . 
Aggety dag The unusual word was frozen on her lip , as people say in books . 
For there , on the floor , lay the carpet , and on the carpet , surrounded by his brothers and by Jane , sat the Lamb . 
He had covered his face and clothes with vaseline and violet powder , but he was easily recognizable in spite of this disguise . 
'Oh , I am glad , I am glad ! cried Anthea , still hugging the baby . 
He might say Aggety dag again , and it might mean something quite different next time . 
Now , my Lamb , Panther'll clean you a little . 
'I hope the beetles won't go wishing , said Cyril , as they rolled up the carpet . 
Two days later mother was well enough to go out , and that evening the coconut matting came home . 
The days had been days spent by the children in embarrassment , and by the Phoenix in sleep . 
And , now the matting was laid down , the Phoenix awoke and fluttered down on to it . 
It shook its crested head . 
'I like not this carpet , it said 'it is harsh and unyielding , and it hurts my golden feet . 
'We've jolly well got to get used to its hurting OUR golden feet , said Cyril . 
'This , then , said the bird , 'supersedes the Wishing Carpet . 
'Yes , said Robert , 'if you mean that it's instead of it . 
'And the magic web ? inquired the Phoenix , with sudden eagerness . 
'It's the rag and bottle man's day to morrow , said Anthea , in a low voice 'he will take it away . 
The Phoenix fluttered up to its favourite perch on the chair back . 
'I should hope not , indeed , said Cyril . 
'Weep not , the bird went on 'I really do beg that you won't weep . 
I will not seek to break the news to you gently . 
Let the blow fall at once . 
The time has come when I must leave you . 
All four children breathed forth a long sigh of relief . 
'We needn't have bothered so about how to break the news to it , whispered Cyril . 
'Ah , sigh not so , said the bird , gently . 
'All meetings end in partings . 
I have sought to prepare you for this . 
Ah , do not give way ! 'Must you really go so soon ? murmured Anthea . 
It was what she had often heard her mother say to calling ladies in the afternoon . 
'I must , really thank you so much , dear , replied the bird , just as though it had been one of the ladies . 
'I am weary , it went on . 
'I desire to rest after all the happenings of this last moon I do desire really to rest , and I ask of you one last boon . 
'Any little thing we can do , said Robert . 
Now that it had really come to parting with the Phoenix , whose favourite he had always been , Robert did feel almost as miserable as the Phoenix thought they all did . 
'I ask but the relic designed for the rag and bottle man . 
Give me what is left of the carpet and let me go . 
'Dare we ? said Anthea . 
'Would mother mind ? 'I have dared greatly for your sakes , remarked the bird . 
'Well , then , we will , said Robert . 
The Phoenix fluffed out its feathers joyously . 
'Nor shall you regret it , children of golden hearts , it said . 
'Quick spread the carpet and leave me alone but first pile high the fire . 
Then , while I am immersed in the sacred preliminary rites , do ye prepare sweet smelling woods and spices for the last act of parting . 
The children spread out what was left of the carpet . 
And , after all , though this was just what they would have wished to have happened , all hearts were sad . 
Then they put half a scuttle of coal on the fire and went out , closing the door on the Phoenix left , at last , alone with the carpet . 
Get the very best that money can buy , and plenty of them . 
Don't let's stand to a threepence or so . 
I want it to have a jolly good send off . 
It's the only thing that'll make us feel less horrid inside . 
It was felt that Robert , as the pet of the Phoenix , ought to have the last melancholy pleasure of choosing the materials for its funeral pyre . 
'I'll keep watch if you like , said Cyril . 
And , besides , it's raining hard , and my boots let in the wet . 
You might call and see if my other ones are really reliable again yet . 
'Robert is right , Anthea said 'this is no time for being careful about our money . 
Let's go to the stationer's first , and buy a whole packet of lead pencils . 
They're cheaper if you buy them by the packet . 
The people at the stationer's said that the pencils were real cedar wood , so I hope they were , for stationers should always speak the truth . 
At any rate they cost one and fourpence . 
Also they spent sevenpence three farthings on a little sandal wood box inlaid with ivory . 
'Because , said Anthea , 'I know sandalwood smells sweet , and when it's burned it smells very sweet indeed . 
'Ivory doesn't smell at all , said Robert , 'but I expect when you burn it it smells most awful vile , like bones . 
Camphor and oil of lavender were bought at the chemist's , and also a little scent sachet labelled 'Violettes de Parme' . 
They took the things home and found Cyril still on guard . 
When they had knocked and the golden voice of the Phoenix had said 'Come in , they went in . 
There lay the carpet or what was left of it and on it lay an egg , exactly like the one out of which the Phoenix had been hatched . 
The Phoenix was walking round and round the egg , clucking with joy and pride . 
'I've laid it , you see , it said , 'and as fine an egg as ever I laid in all my born days . 
Every one said yes , it was indeed a beauty . 
'Never , never have I had a finer pyre than this will be . 
You shall not regret it , it said , wiping away a golden tear . 
'Write quickly Go and tell the Psammead to fulfil the last wish of the Phoenix , and return instantly . 
The paper was pinned to the carpet , which vanished and returned in the flash of an eye . 
Then another paper was written ordering the carpet to take the egg somewhere where it wouldn't be hatched for another two thousand years . 
'Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! oh , dear ! said everybody . 
'Bear up , said the bird 'do you think I don't suffer , being parted from my precious new laid egg like this ? Come , conquer your emotions and build my fire . 
'OH ! cried Robert , suddenly , and wholly breaking down , 'I can't BEAR you to go ! The Phoenix perched on his shoulder and rubbed its beak softly against his ear . 
'The sorrows of youth soon appear but as dreams , it said . 
'Farewell , Robert of my heart . 
I have loved you well . 
The fire had burnt to a red glow . 
One by one the spices and sweet woods were laid on it . 
Some smelt nice and some the caraway seeds and the Violettes de Parme sachet among them smelt worse than you would think possible . 
'Farewell , farewell , farewell , farewell ! said the Phoenix , in a far away voice . 
'Oh , GOOD BYE , said every one , and now all were in tears . 
The bright bird fluttered seven times round the room and settled in the hot heart of the fire . 
The sweet gums and spices and woods flared and flickered around it , but its golden feathers did not burn . 
'Whatever have you done with the carpet ? asked mother next day . 
'We gave it to some one who wanted it very much . 
The name began with a P , said Jane . 
The others instantly hushed her . 
'Oh , well , it wasn't worth twopence , said mother . 
'The person who began with P said we shouldn't lose by it , Jane went on before she could be stopped . 
'I daresay ! said mother , laughing . 
But that very night a great box came , addressed to the children by all their names . 
Eliza never could remember the name of the carrier who brought it . 
It wasn't Carter Paterson or the Parcels Delivery . 
Inside the box was soft paper , with beautiful Chinese patterns on it blue and green and red and violet . 
And under the paper well , almost everything lovely that you can think of . 
Everything of reasonable size , I mean for , of course , there were no motors or flying machines or thoroughbred chargers . 
But there really was almost everything else . 
At the very bottom of the box was a tiny golden feather . 
When he went to bed the feather was gone . 
It was the last he ever saw of the Phoenix . 
Pinned to the lovely fur cloak that mother had always wanted was a paper , and it said 'In return for the carpet . 
P. You may guess how father and mother talked it over . 
But the children knew better . 
