Pictures From Italy by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
Many books have been written upon Italy , affording many means of studying the history of that interesting country , and the innumerable associations entwined about it . 
Neither will there be found , in these pages , any grave examination into the government or misgovernment of any portion of the country . 
There is , probably , not a famous Picture or Statue in all Italy , but could be easily buried under a mountain of printed paper devoted to dissertations on it . 
I do not , therefore , though an earnest admirer of Painting and Sculpture , expatiate at any length on famous Pictures and Statues . 
The greater part of the descriptions were written on the spot , and sent home , from time to time , in private letters . 
I hope I am not likely to be misunderstood by Professors of the Roman Catholic faith , on account of anything contained in these pages . 
I have done my best , in one of my former productions , to do justice to them and I trust , in this , they will do justice to me . 
When I treat of the ceremonies of the Holy Week , I merely treat of their effect , and do not challenge the good and learned Dr . 
Wiseman's interpretation of their meaning . 
I have likened these Pictures to shadows in the water , and would fain hope that I have , nowhere , stirred the water so roughly , as to mar the shadows . 
I could never desire to be on better terms with all my friends than now , when distant mountains rise , once more , in my path . 
And I have only now , in passport wise , to sketch my reader's portrait , which I hope may be thus supposititiously traced for either sex Complexion Fair . 
to issue from the gate of the Hotel Meurice in the Rue Rivoli at Paris . 
There was , of course , very little in the aspect of Paris as we rattled near the dismal Morgue and over the Pont Neuf to reproach us for our Sunday travelling . 
Once clear of the never to be forgotten or forgiven pavement which surrounds Paris , the first three days of travelling towards Marseilles are quiet and monotonous enough . 
A sketch of one day's proceedings is a sketch of all three and here it is . 
There is little more than one variety in the appearance of the country , for the first two days . 
From a dreary plain , to an interminable avenue , and from an interminable avenue to a dreary plain again . 
Plenty of vines there are in the open fields , but of a short low kind , and not trained in festoons , but about straight sticks . 
Beggars innumerable there are , everywhere but an extraordinarily scanty population , and fewer children than I ever encountered . 
I don't believe we saw a hundred children between Paris and Chalons . 
their great blue woolly furniture , of immense weight and thickness , with a pair of grotesque horns growing out of the collar , very much too warm for the Midsummer weather . 
Also the Malle Poste , with only a couple of passengers , tearing along at a real good dare devil pace , and out of sight in no time . 
Crack , crack , crack , crack . 
'My Courier ! My brave Courier ! My friend ! My brother ! The landlady loves him , the femme de chambre blesses him , the garcon worships him . 
The Courier asks if his letter has been received ? It has , it has . 
Are the rooms prepared ? They are , they are . 
The best rooms for my noble Courier . 
He carries a green leathern purse outside his coat , suspended by a belt . 
The idlers look at it one touches it . 
It is full of five franc pieces . 
Murmurs of admiration are heard among the boys . 
The landlord falls upon the Courier's neck , and folds him to his breast . 
He is so much fatter than he was , he says ! He looks so rosy and so well ! The door is opened . 
The lady of the family gets out . 
Ah sweet lady ! Beautiful lady ! The sister of the lady of the family gets out . 
Great Heaven , Ma'amselle is charming ! First little boy gets out . 
Ah , what a beautiful little boy ! First little girl gets out . 
Oh , but this is an enchanting child ! Second little girl gets out . 
The landlady , yielding to the finest impulse of our common nature , catches her up in her arms ! Second little boy gets out . 
Oh , the sweet boy ! Oh , the tender little family ! The baby is handed out . 
Angelic baby ! The baby has topped everything . 
For it is something to touch a carriage that has held so many people . 
It is a legacy to leave one's children . 
The other sleeping apartments are large and lofty each with two small bedsteads , tastefully hung , like the windows , with red and white drapery . 
The sitting room is famous . 
Dinner is already laid in it for three and the napkins are folded in cocked hat fashion . 
The floors are of red tile . 
The whole party are in motion . 
There is very thin soup there are very large loaves one apiece a fish four dishes afterwards some poultry afterwards a dessert afterwards and no lack of wine . 
There is not much in the dishes but they are very good , and always ready instantly . 
Still the thin Cure walks up and down alone , with his book and umbrella . 
And there he walks , and there the billiard balls rattle , long after we are fast asleep . 
We are astir at six next morning . 
It is a delightful day , shaming yesterday's mud upon the carriage , if anything could shame a carriage , in a land where carriages are never cleaned . 
Everybody is brisk and as we finish breakfast , the horses come jingling into the yard from the Post house . 
Everything taken out of the carriage is put back again . 
The brave Courier announces that all is ready , after walking into every room , and looking all round it , to be certain that nothing is left behind . 
Everybody connected with the Hotel de l'Ecu d'Or is again enchanted . 
The brave Courier runs into the house for a parcel containing cold fowl , sliced ham , bread , and biscuits , for lunch hands it into the coach and runs back again . 
What has he got in his hand now ? More cucumbers ? No. A long strip of paper . 
He never pays the bill till this bottle is full . 
He disputes it now , violently . 
He is still the landlord's brother , but by another father or mother . 
He is not so nearly related to him as he was last night . 
The landlord scratches his head . 
The landlord goes into a little counting house . 
The brave Courier follows , forces the bill and a pen into his hand , and talks more rapidly than ever . 
The landlord takes the pen . 
The landlord makes an alteration . 
The Courier cuts a joke . 
The landlord is affectionate , but not weakly so . 
He bears it like a man . 
He shakes hands with his brave brother , but he don't hug him . 
The market is held in the little square outside in front of the cathedral . 
It is crowded with men and women , in blue , in red , in green , in white with canvassed stalls and fluttering merchandise . 
The country people are grouped about , with their clean baskets before them . 
Here , the lace sellers there , the butter and egg sellers there , the fruit sellers there , the shoe makers . 
The whole place looks as if it were the stage of some great theatre , and the curtain had just run up , for a picturesque ballet . 
In five minutes we have passed the iron cross , with a little ragged kneeling place of turf before it , in the outskirts of the town and are again upon the road . 
You would probably like it better , however , than Lyons which you may reach , if you will , in one of the before mentioned steamboats , in eight hours . 
The houses , high and vast , dirty to excess , rotten as old cheeses , and as thickly peopled . 
Meanwhile , the Sacristan stood explaining these wonders , and pointing them out , severally , with a wand . 
He is very soon disposed of . 
For the last two days , we had seen great sullen hills , the first indications of the Alps , lowering in the distance . 
Now , we were rushing on beside them sometimes close beside them sometimes with an intervening slope , covered with vineyards . 
The grapes were hanging in clusters in the streets , and the brilliant Oleander was in full bloom everywhere . 
The streets are old and very narrow , but tolerably clean , and shaded by awnings stretched from house to house . 
It was all very like one of the descriptions in the Arabian Nights . 
After breakfast next morning , we sallied forth to see the lions . 
I will not say decorated , for they were very roughly and comically got up most likely by poor sign painters , who eke out their living in that way . 
They are abundant in Italy . 
In one , a lady was having a toe amputated an operation which a saintly personage had sailed into the room , upon a couch , to superintend . 
Above whom , the Virgin , on a kind of blue divan , promised to restore the patient . 
In another case , a lady was in the very act of being run over , immediately outside the city walls , by a sort of piano forte van . 
But the Madonna was there again . 
, or whether it was invisible to him , I don't know but he was galloping away , ding dong , without the smallest reverence or compunction . 
On every picture 'Ex voto' was painted in yellow capitals in the sky . 
Gratitude and Devotion are Christian qualities and a grateful , humble , Christian spirit may dictate the observance . 
We went to see the ruins of the dreadful rooms in which the Inquisition used to sit . 
But such a fierce , little , rapid , sparkling , energetic she devil I never beheld . 
She was alight and flaming , all the time . 
Her action was violent in the extreme . 
She never spoke , without stopping expressly for the purpose . 
with another castle on the opposite bank of the river . 
The day has not got in there yet . 
They are still small cells , shut in by four unyielding , close , hard walls still profoundly dark still massively doored and fastened , as of old . 
Goblin , looking back as I have described , went softly on , into a vaulted chamber , now used as a store room once the chapel of the Holy Office . 
The place where the tribunal sat , was plain . 
The platform might have been removed but yesterday . 
Conceive the parable of the Good Samaritan having been painted on the wall of one of these Inquisition chambers ! But it was , and may be traced there yet . 
High up in the jealous wall , are niches where the faltering replies of the accused were heard and noted down . 
Many of them had been brought out of the very cell we had just looked into , so awfully along the same stone passage . 
We had trodden in their very footsteps . 
She invites me , with a jerk , to follow her . 
She leads me out into a room adjoining a rugged room , with a funnel shaped , contracting roof , open at the top , to the bright day . 
I ask her what it is . 
She folds her arms , leers hideously , and stares . 
Peace , Goblin ! Sit with your short arms crossed on your short legs , upon that heap of stones , for only five minutes , and then flame out again . 
Thus it ran round ! cries Goblin . 
Mash , mash , mash ! An endless routine of heavy hammers . 
Mash , mash , mash ! upon the sufferer's limbs . 
See the stone trough ! says Goblin . 
There they made the irons red hot . 
Those holes supported the sharp stake , on which the tortured persons hung poised dangling with their whole weight from the roof . 
Downward to the bottom , upward to the top , of a steep , dark , lofty tower very dismal , very dark , very cold . 
The Executioner of the Inquisition , says Goblin , edging in her head to look down also , flung those who were past all further torturing , down here . 
were murdered , and hurled , the dying and the dead , into this dreadful pit , where a quantity of quick lime was tumbled down upon their bodies . 
Goblin's finger is lifted and she steals out again , into the Chapel of the Holy Office . 
She stops at a certain part of the flooring . 
Her great effect is at hand . 
She waits for the rest . 
She darts at the brave Courier , who is explaining something hits him a sounding rap on the hat with the largest key and bids him be silent . 
She assembles us all , round a little trap door in the floor , as round a grave . 
'Voila ! she darts down at the ring , and flings the door open with a crash , in her goblin energy , though it is no light weight . 
I felt exalted with the proud delight of living in these degenerate times , to see it . 
CHAPTER III AVIGNON TO GENOA GOBLIN , having shown LES OUBLIETTES , felt that her great COUP was struck . 
She let the door fall with a crash , and stood upon it with her arms a kimbo , sniffing prodigiously . 
When we left the place , I accompanied her into her house , under the outer gateway of the fortress , to buy a little history of the building . 
knitting at the door looked exactly like a picture by OSTADE . 
I could think of little , however , then , or long afterwards , but the sun in the dungeons . 
For several years the legate kept HIS revenge within his own breast , but he was not the less resolved upon its gratification at last . 
The utmost gaiety animated the repast but the measures of the legate were well taken . 
When the dessert was on the board , a Swiss presented himself , with the announcement that a strange ambassador solicited an extraordinary audience . 
The legate , excusing himself , for the moment , to his guests , retired , followed by his officers . 
, we left Avignon that afternoon . 
The harvest here was already gathered in , and mules and horses were treading out the corn in the fields . 
We came , at dusk , upon a wild and hilly country , once famous for brigands and travelled slowly up a steep ascent . 
We left this town towards evening , and took the road to Marseilles . 
A dusty road it was the houses shut up close and the vines powdered white . 
At nearly all the cottage doors , women were peeling and slicing onions into earthen bowls for supper . 
So they had been doing last night all the way from Avignon . 
As we approached Marseilles , the road began to be covered with holiday people . 
But dust , dust , dust , everywhere . 
I was there , twice or thrice afterwards , in fair weather and foul and I am afraid there is no doubt that it is a dirty and disagreeable place . 
But the prospect , from the fortified heights , of the beautiful Mediterranean , with its lovely rocks and islands , is most delightful . 
was still sitting there , with his legs stretched out before him , and evidently couldn't bear to have the shutters put up . 
The vessel was beautifully clean the meals were served under an awning on deck the night was calm and clear the quiet beauty of the sea and sky unspeakable . 
The way lay through the main streets , but not through the Strada Nuova , or the Strada Balbi , which are the famous streets of palaces . 
, the disorderly jumbling of dirty houses , one upon the roof of another the passages more squalid and more close than any in St . 
I fell into a dismal reverie . 
At present , let us breathe after this long winded journey . 
It requires a little time and use to overcome the feeling of depression consequent , at first , on so much ruin and neglect . 
Novelty , pleasant to most people , is particularly delightful , I think , to me . 
I am not easily dispirited when I have the means of pursuing my own fancies and occupations and I believe I have some natural aptitude for accommodating myself to circumstances . 
have sufficient occupation in pondering over my new experiences , and comparing them , very much to my own amusement , with my expectations , until I wander out again . 
The Villa Bagnerello or the Pink Jail , a far more expressive name for the mansion is in one of the most splendid situations imaginable . 
When you have got through these narrow lanes , you come to an archway , imperfectly stopped up by a rusty old gate my gate . 
The rusty old gate has a bell to correspond , which you ring as long as you like , and which nobody answers , as it has no connection whatever with the house . 
The brave Courier comes , and gives you admittance . 
The furniture of this SALA is a sort of red brocade . 
All the chairs are immovable , and the sofa weighs several tons . 
On the same floor , and opening out of this same chamber , are dining room , drawing room , and divers bed rooms each with a multiplicity of doors and windows . 
A mighty old , wandering , ghostly , echoing , grim , bare house it is , as ever I beheld or thought of . 
It is now a cow house , and has three cows in it , so that we get new milk by the bucketful . 
The old man is very anxious to convert me to the Catholic faith , and exhorts me frequently . 
So at this time of the year , you don't see much of the prospect within doors . 
As for the flies , you don't mind them . 
The rats are kept away , quite comfortably , by scores of lean cats , who roam about the garden for that purpose . 
The lizards , of course , nobody cares for they play in the sun , and don't bite . 
The little scorpions are merely curious . 
The beetles are rather late , and have not appeared yet . 
That is exactly the noise they make . 
The ruined chapel , on the picturesque and beautiful seashore , was dedicated , once upon a time , to Saint John the Baptist . 
I believe there is a legend that Saint John's bones were received there , with various solemnities , when they were first brought to Genoa for Genoa possesses them to this day . 
When there is any uncommon tempest at sea , they are brought out and exhibited to the raging weather , which they never fail to calm . 
are profusely painted with all sorts of subjects , grim and holy . 
But time and the sea air have nearly obliterated them and they look like the entrance to Vauxhall Gardens on a sunny day . 
It looked very odd and pretty . 
, that I thought , and was quite satisfied , they wore them as horses do to keep the flies off . 
Soon afterwards , there was another festa day , in honour of St . 
One of the Albaro young men brought two large bouquets soon after breakfast , and coming up stairs into the great SALA , presented them himself . 
They wear no bonnets here , simply a long white veil the 'mezzero and it was the most gauzy , ethereal looking audience I ever saw . 
The young women are not generally pretty , but they walk remarkably well , and in their personal carriage and the management of their veils , display much innate grace and elegance . 
There were some men present not very many and a few of these were kneeling about the aisles , while everybody else tumbled over them . 
I never did hear such a discordant din . 
The heat was intense all the time . 
, were playing bowls , and buying sweetmeats , immediately outside the church . 
But the most favourite game is the national one of Mora , which they pursue with surprising ardour , and at which they will stake everything they possess . 
It is a destructive kind of gambling , requiring no accessories but the ten fingers , which are always I intend no pun at hand . 
One calls a number say the extreme one , ten . 
It is never the quietest game in the world for the numbers are always called in a loud sharp voice , and follow as close upon each other as they can be counted . 
The effect is greatly heightened by the universal suddenness and vehemence of gesture two men playing for half a farthing with an intensity as all absorbing as if the stake were life . 
Hard by here is a large Palazzo , formerly belonging to some member of the Brignole family , but just now hired by a school of Jesuits for their summer quarters . 
I don't believe there was an uncracked stone in the whole pavement . 
In the centre was a melancholy statue , so piebald in its decay , that it looked exactly as if it had been covered with sticking plaster , and afterwards powdered . 
The stables , coach houses , offices , were all empty , all ruinous , all utterly deserted . 
what had become of it . 
It is a place that 'grows upon you' every day . 
There seems to be always something to find out in it . 
There are the most extraordinary alleys and by ways to walk about in . 
twenty times a day , if you like and turn up again , under the most unexpected and surprising difficulties . 
It abounds in the strangest contrasts things that are picturesque , ugly , mean , magnificent , delightful , and offensive , break upon the view at every turn . 
to the top of Monte Faccio , or , at least , ride round the city walls a feat more easily performed . 
They often get wine at these suburban Trattorie , from France and Spain and Portugal , which is brought over by small captains in little trading vessels . 
The various opposite flavours , qualities , countries , ages , and vintages that are comprised under these two general heads is quite extraordinary . 
The most limited range is probably from cool Gruel up to old Marsala , and down again to apple Tea . 
are supposed to live and walk about being mere lanes , with here and there a kind of well , or breathing place . 
The houses are immensely high , painted in all sorts of colours , and are in every stage and state of damage , dirt , and lack of repair . 
They are commonly let off in floors , or flats , like the houses in the old town of Edinburgh , or many houses in Paris . 
As it is impossible for coaches to penetrate into these streets , there are sedan chairs , gilded and otherwise , for hire in divers places . 
The sedans and lanthorns are the legitimate successors of the long strings of patient and much abused mules , that go jingling their little bells through these confined streets all day long . 
They follow them , as regularly as the stars the sun . 
At other times , there were clouds and haze enough to make an Englishman grumble in his own climate . 
has his office in a good sized Palazzo in the Strada Nuova . 
, a hook nosed Saracen's Head with an immense quantity of black hair sells walking sticks . 
sells articles of her own knitting and sometimes flowers . 
A little further in , two or three blind men occasionally beg . 
A little further in , a few men , perhaps , lie asleep in the middle of the day or they may be chairmen waiting for their absent freight . 
If so , they have brought their chairs in with them , and there THEY stand also . 
On the left of the hall is a little room a hatter's shop . 
On the first floor , is the English bank . 
On the first floor also , is a whole house , and a good large residence too . 
Heaven knows what there may be above that but when you are there , you have only just begun to go up stairs . 
which seems to have been unvisited by human foot , for a hundred years . 
Not a sound disturbs its repose . 
But the eye sockets of the giant are not drier than this channel is now . 
In the streets of shops , the houses are much smaller , but of great size notwithstanding , and extremely high . 
They are very dirty quite undrained , if my nose be at all reliable and emit a peculiar fragrance , like the smell of very bad cheese , kept in very hot blankets . 
Notwithstanding the height of the houses , there would seem to have been a lack of room in the City , for new houses are thrust in everywhere . 
Wherever it has been possible to cram a tumble down tenement into a crack or corner , in it has gone . 
Against the Government House , against the old Senate House , round about any large building , little shops stick so close , like parasite vermin to the great carcase . 
something hanging out of a great many windows , and wafting its frowsy fragrance on the breeze . 
Sometimes , it is a curtain sometimes , it is a carpet sometimes , it is a bed sometimes , a whole line full of clothes but there is almost always something . 
Before the basement of these houses , is an arcade over the pavement very massive , dark , and low , like an old crypt . 
Beneath some of the arches , the sellers of macaroni and polenta establish their stalls , which are by no means inviting . 
, is down here also and two portentous officials , in cocked hats , stand at the gate to search you if they choose , and to keep out Monks and Ladies . 
So Sanctity and Beauty may , by no means , enter . 
The streets of Genoa would be all the better for the importation of a few Priests of prepossessing appearance . 
I have no knowledge , elsewhere , of more repulsive countenances than are to be found among these gentry . 
If Nature's handwriting be at all legible , greater varieties of sloth , deceit , and intellectual torpor , could hardly be observed among any class of men in the world . 
Perhaps the Cappuccini , though not a learned body , are , as an order , the best friends of the people . 
They may be seen , in their coarse dress , in all parts of the town at all times , and begging in the markets early in the morning . 
The Jesuits too , muster strong in the streets , and go slinking noiselessly about , in pairs , like black cats . 
In some of the narrow passages , distinct trades congregate . 
Very few of the tradesmen have any idea of setting forth their goods , or disposing them for show . 
Everything is sold at the most unlikely place . 
Most of the apothecaries' shops are great lounging places . 
Two or three of these are poor physicians , ready to proclaim themselves on an emergency , and tear off with any messenger who may arrive . 
Few people lounge in the barbers' shops though they are very numerous , as hardly any man shaves himself . 
But the apothecary's has its group of loungers , who sit back among the bottles , with their hands folded over the tops of their sticks . 
On a summer evening the Genoese are as fond of putting themselves , as their ancestors were of putting houses , in every available inch of space in and about the town . 
In all the lanes and alleys , and up every little ascent , and on every dwarf wall , and on every flight of steps , they cluster like bees . 
these young Christians thus engaged , one might very naturally mistake them for the Enemy . 
Festa days , early in the autumn , are very numerous . 
On these days , they always dress the church of the saint in whose honour the festa is holden , very gaily . 
The cathedral is dedicated to St . 
Lorenzo's day , we went into it , just as the sun was setting . 
Although these decorations are usually in very indifferent taste , the effect , just then , was very superb indeed . 
For the whole building was dressed in red and the sinking sun , streaming in , through a great red curtain in the chief doorway , made all the gorgeousness its own . 
But , sitting in any of the churches towards evening , is like a mild dose of opium . 
With the money collected at a festa , they usually pay for the dressing of the church , and for the hiring of the band , and for the tapers . 
, the souls in Purgatory get the benefit of it . 
fly open on Red letter days , and disclose an image and some flowers inside . 
Still further to stimulate the charitable , there is a monstrous painting on the plaster , on either side of the grated door , representing a select party of souls , frying . 
One of them has a grey moustache , and an elaborate head of grey hair as if he had been taken out of a hairdresser's window and cast into the furnace . 
They are not a very joyous people , and are seldom seen to dance on their holidays the staple places of entertainment among the women , being the churches and the public walks . 
They are very good tempered , obliging , and industrious . 
The custom is to lay the wet linen which is being operated upon , on a smooth stone , and hammer away at it , with a flat wooden mallet . 
This they do , as furiously as if they were revenging themselves on dress in general for being connected with the Fall of Mankind . 
is universal among the common people . 
, and found it very red in the face but perfectly quiet , and not to be bent on any terms . 
The number of cripples in the streets , soon ceased to surprise me . 
There are plenty of Saints' and Virgin's Shrines , of course generally at the corners of streets . 
This is the legend of the Madonna della Guardia a chapel on a mountain within a few miles , which is in high repute . 
'I should wish , then , said the Celestial Visitor , 'to have a chapel built here , in which the prayers of the Faithful may be offered up . 
'But , Santissima Madonna , said the peasant , 'I am a poor man and chapels cannot be built without money . 
They must be supported , too , Santissima for to have a chapel and not support it liberally , is a wickedness a deadly sin . 
This sentiment gave great satisfaction to the visitor . 
All of which turned out to be quite true . 
And in proof of this prediction and revelation , there is the chapel of the Madonna della Guardia , rich and flourishing at this day . 
The splendour and variety of the Genoese churches , can hardly be exaggerated . 
like a great enamelled snuff box . 
Among the troops in the town , there are usually some Swiss more or less . 
When any of these die , they are buried out of a fund maintained by such of their countrymen as are resident in Genoa . 
Their providing coffins for these men is matter of great astonishment to the authorities . 
Certainly , the effect of this promiscuous and indecent splashing down of dead people in so many wells , is bad . 
It surrounds Death with revolting associations , that insensibly become connected with those whom Death is approaching . 
Indifference and avoidance are the natural result and all the softening influences of the great sorrow are harshly disturbed . 
Women who have devoted themselves to this act of Faith , are very commonly seen walking in the streets . 
There are three theatres in the city , besides an old one now rarely opened . 
The most important the Carlo Felice the opera house of Genoa is a very splendid , commodious , and beautiful theatre . 
A company of comedians were acting there , when we arrived and soon after their departure , a second rate opera company came . 
The great season is not until the carnival time in the spring . 
But , as there is nothing else of a public nature at which they are allowed to express the least disapprobation , perhaps they are resolved to make the most of this opportunity . 
They are lofty critics in consequence , and infinitely more exacting than if they made the unhappy manager's fortune . 
Beyond this , and the novelty of seeing a play in the fresh pleasant air , with the darkening evening closing in , there is nothing very exciting or characteristic in the performances . 
The actors are indifferent and though they sometimes represent one of Goldoni's comedies , the staple of the Drama is French . 
Anything like nationality is dangerous to despotic governments , and Jesuit beleaguered kings . 
The Theatre of Puppets , or Marionetti a famous company from Milan is , without any exception , the drollest exhibition I ever beheld in my life . 
I never saw anything so exquisitely ridiculous . 
They usually play a comedy , and a ballet . 
The comic man in the comedy I saw one summer night , is a waiter in an hotel . 
There never was such a locomotive actor , since the world began . 
Great pains are taken with him . 
quite as a matter of course , and as if he were a man . 
He continually shakes his legs , and winks his eye . 
And there is a heavy father with grey hair , who sits down on the regular conventional stage bank , and blesses his daughter in the regular conventional way , who is tremendous . 
No one would suppose it possible that anything short of a real man could be so tedious . 
It is the triumph of art . 
In the ballet , an Enchanter runs away with the Bride , in the very hour of her nuptials , He brings her to his cave , and tries to soothe her . 
and a procession of musicians enters one creature playing a drum , and knocking himself off his legs at every blow . 
These failing to delight her , dancers appear . 
Four first then two THE two the flesh coloured two . 
I went , another night , to see these Puppets act a play called 'St . 
Helena , or the Death of Napoleon . 
It began by the disclosure of Napoleon , with an immense head , seated on a sofa in his chamber at St . 
Helena to whom his valet entered with this obscure announcement 'Sir Yew ud se on Low ? . 
'Four or five for ME ! said Napoleon . 
It would be hard to say why for Italians have little cause to sympathise with Napoleon , Heaven knows . 
In two very long speeches , which Low made memorable , by winding up with 'Yas ! to show that he was English which brought down thunders of applause . 
Napoleon was so affected by this catastrophe , that he fainted away on the spot , and was carried out by two other puppets . 
He was prodigiously good , in bed , with an immense collar to his shirt , and his little hands outside the coverlet . 
He was almost as good as Low , though the latter was great at all times a decided brute and villain , beyond all possibility of mistake . 
by exclaiming , with characteristic brutality , 'Ha ! ha ! Eleven minutes to six ! The General dead ! and the spy hanged ! This brought the curtain down , triumphantly . 
It is more like an enchanted place in an Eastern story than a grave and sober lodging . 
But that prospect from the hall is like a vision to me . 
Old Monte Faccio , brightest of hills in good weather , but sulkiest when storms are coming on , is here , upon the left . 
commands that height upon the right . 
Within a stone's throw , as it seems , the audience of the Day Theatre sit their faces turned this way . 
But , being Sunday night , they act their best and most attractive play . 
And this , so far as I know , is the only reason why the Genoese avoid it after dark , and think it haunted . 
My memory will haunt it , many nights , in time to come but nothing worse , I will engage . 
The same Ghost will occasionally sail away , as I did one pleasant autumn evening , into the bright prospect , and sniff the morning air at Marseilles . 
But we were laden with wool . 
Wool must not remain in the Custom house at Marseilles more than twelve months at a stretch , without paying duty . 
This wool of ours , had come originally from some place in the East . 
It was recognised as Eastern produce , the moment we entered the harbour . 
It was a very hot day indeed . 
expressive of a week's detention at least and nothing whatever the matter all the time . 
But even in this crisis the brave Courier achieved a triumph . 
either naturally connected with the hotel , or put EN RAPPORT with the establishment for that occasion only . 
The telegraph was answered , and in half an hour or less , there came a loud shout from the guard house . 
Everybody helped the captain into his boat . 
Everybody got his luggage , and said we were going . 
The captain rowed away , and disappeared behind a little jutting corner of the Galley slaves' Prison and presently came back with something , very sulkily . 
The brave Courier met him at the side , and received the something as its rightful owner . 
He had a free , open countenance and a rich brown , flowing beard and was a remarkably handsome man , of about fifty . 
He made this communication , under the idea that the brave Courier was the captain and indeed he looked much more like it than anybody else on board . 
So , in the noontide of his patronage of his gigantic protege , he lay down among the wool , and began to snore . 
It was four o'clock before we were released and the Frenchman , dirty and woolly , and snuffy , was still sleeping when the Friar went ashore . 
We looked out anxiously for the Cappuccini , and presently their brown robes and corded girdles were seen coming on , in a body . 
Ah ! never was the Frenchman so deceived . 
There was not the faintest trace of recognition or amusement on his features not the smallest consciousness of bread and meat , wine , snuff , or cigars . 
'C'est lui meme , I heard the little Frenchman say , in some doubt . 
Oh yes , it was himself . 
It was not his brother or his nephew , very like him . 
He walked in great state being one of the Superiors of the Order and looked his part to admiration . 
The procession wound up with a discharge of musketry that shook all the windows in the town . 
Next afternoon we started for Genoa , by the famed Cornice road . 
So long , he went jingling through every little village , with bells on his horses and rings in his ears a very meteor of gallantry and cheerfulness . 
His hands were twined in his hair immediately , as if a combination of all the direst accidents in life had suddenly fallen on his devoted head . 
He swore in French , prayed in Italian , and went up and down , beating his feet on the ground in a very ecstasy of despair . 
Much of the romance of the beautiful towns and villages on this beautiful road , disappears when they are entered , for many of them are very miserable . 
The vegetation is , everywhere , luxuriant and beautiful , and the Palm tree makes a novel feature in the novel scenery . 
In some of the broad bays , the fleets of Europe might ride at anchor . 
In every case , each little group of houses presents , in the distance , some enchanting confusion of picturesque and fanciful shapes . 
It was very wet , and very cold very dark , and very dismal we travelled at the rate of barely four miles an hour , and stopped nowhere for refreshment . 
In this way we travelled on , until four o'clock in the afternoon the roads being still very heavy , and the coach very slow . 
This disorder , and the roads , formed the main subject of conversation . 
, who sat upon their beds , and stared at me in return . 
The first dish is a cabbage , boiled with a great quantity of rice in a tureen full of water , and flavoured with cheese . 
It is so hot , and we are so cold , that it appears almost jolly . 
The second dish is some little bits of pork , fried with pigs' kidneys . 
The third , two red fowls . 
The fourth , two little red turkeys . 
The fifth , a huge stew of garlic and truffles , and I don't know what else and this concludes the entertainment . 
, where he is smoking cigars with a party of confidential friends . 
This is at twelve o'clock at night . 
While the horses are 'coming , I stumble out into the town too . 
It seems to be all one little Piazza , with a cold damp wind blowing in and out of the arches , alternately , in a sort of pattern . 
But it is profoundly dark , and raining heavily and I shouldn't know it to morrow , if I were taken there to try . 
The horses arrive in about an hour . 
In the interval , the driver swears sometimes Christian oaths , sometimes Pagan oaths . 
Sometimes , when it is a long , compound oath , he begins with Christianity and merges into Paganism . 
Various messengers are despatched not so much after the horses , as after each other for the first messenger never comes back , and all the rest imitate him . 
At length the horses appear , surrounded by all the messengers some kicking them , and some dragging them , and all shouting abuse to them . 
The Tuscan , with a cigar in his mouth , went loitering off , carrying his hat in his hand that he might the better trail up the ends of his dishevelled moustache . 
And the brave Courier , as he and I strolled away to look about us , began immediately to entertain me with the private histories and family affairs of the whole party . 
A brown , decayed , old town , Piacenza is . 
A dormouse must surely be in very much the same condition before he retires under the wool in his cage or a tortoise before he buries himself . 
I feel that I am getting rusty . 
That any attempt to think , would be accompanied with a creaking noise . 
That there is nothing , anywhere , to be done , or needing to be done . 
That there is no more human progress , motion , effort , or advancement , of any kind beyond this . 
That the whole scheme stopped here centuries ago , and laid down to rest until the Day of Judgment . 
In Genoa , and thereabouts , they train the vines on trellis work , supported on square clumsy pillars , which , in themselves , are anything but picturesque . 
Their leaves are now of the brightest gold and deepest red and never was anything so enchantingly graceful and full of beauty . 
Through miles of these delightful forms and colours , the road winds its way . 
They were busy , rising from the cold shade of Temples made with hands , into the sunny air of Heaven . 
The decayed and mutilated paintings with which this church is covered , have , to my thinking , a remarkably mournful and depressing influence . 
It is miserable to see great works of art something of the Souls of Painters perishing and fading away , like human forms . 
This cathedral is odorous with the rotting of Correggio's frescoes in the Cupola . 
Heaven knows how beautiful they may have been at one time . 
There is the Farnese Palace , too and in it one of the dreariest spectacles of decay that ever was seen a grand , old , gloomy theatre , mouldering away . 
Such desolation as has fallen on this theatre , enhanced in the spectator's fancy by its gay intention and design , none but worms can be familiar with . 
A hundred and ten years have passed , since any play was acted here . 
The desolation and decay impress themselves on all the senses . 
If ever Ghosts act plays , they act them on this ghostly stage . 
Anyhow , I must certainly have forgiven her her interest in the Circus , though I had been her Father Confessor . 
which the people of Modena took away from the people of Bologna in the fourteenth century , and about which there was war made and a mock heroic poem by TASSONE , too . 
would have considered that we had half done justice to the wonders of Modena . 
looking wistfully at a certain plot of grass , I asked him who was buried there . 
'Only the poor , Signore ! It's very cheerful . 
Well ! Thanks to God ! It's very cheerful . 
, and made a little bow partly in deprecation of his having alluded to such a subject , and partly in memory of the children and of his favourite saint . 
It was as unaffected and as perfectly natural a little bow , as ever man made . 
Immediately afterwards , he took his hat off altogether , and begged to introduce me to the next monument and his eyes and his teeth shone brighter than before . 
, I looked incredulously at his cocked hat , wash leather gloves , well made uniform , and dazzling buttons , and rebuked the little Cicerone with a grave shake of the head . 
He had no pace at all no more than a tortoise . 
He loitered as the people loitered , that they might gratify their curiosity and positively allowed them , now and then , to read the inscriptions on the tombs . 
He was neither shabby , nor insolent , nor churlish , nor ignorant . 
to see the monuments for nothing . 
Again , brown piles of sacred buildings , with more birds flying in and out of chinks in the stones and more snarling monsters for the bases of the pillars . 
Again , rich churches , drowsy Masses , curling incense , tinkling bells , priests in bright vestments pictures , tapers , laced altar cloths , crosses , images , and artificial flowers . 
, inclining cross wise as if they were bowing stiffly to each other a most extraordinary termination to the perspective of some of the narrow streets . 
Observing , at the same moment , that I took no milk , he exclaimed with enthusiasm , that Milor Beeron had never touched it . 
He knew all about him , he said . 
, to the big bed itself , which was the very model of his . 
There was not much in it . 
In the blood red light , there was a mournful sheet of water , just stirred by the evening wind upon its margin a few trees . 
Coppersmiths , doors , portholes , smoke , and faggots , are welcome to me . 
The aspect of this dreary town , half an hour before sunrise one fine morning , when I left it , was as picturesque as it seemed unreal and spectral . 
It was best to see it , without a single figure in the picture a city of the dead , without one solitary survivor . 
In one part , a great tower rose into the air the only landmark in the melancholy view . 
In another , a prodigious castle , with a moat about it , stood aloof a sullen city in itself . 
In the black dungeons of this castle , Parisina and her lover were beheaded in the dead of night . 
The brave Courier and the soldiery had first quarrelled , for half an hour or more , over our eternal passport . 
There was a postilion , in the course of this day's journey , as wild and savagely good looking a vagabond as you would desire to see . 
He was a tall , stout made , dark complexioned fellow , with a profusion of shaggy black hair hanging all over his face , and great black whiskers stretching down his throat . 
To this Brigand , the brave Courier , when we were at a reasonable trot , happened to suggest the practicability of going faster . 
flung up his heels , much higher than the horses and disappeared , in a paroxysm , somewhere in the neighbourhood of the axletree . 
Being anxious to reach our immediate destination that night , I ventured , by and by , to repeat the experiment on my own account . 
It produced exactly the same effect . 
This was no sooner visible than , in its turn , it melted into something else . 
At one moment , I was standing again , before the brown old rugged churches of Modena . 
In short , I had that incoherent but delightful jumble in my brain , which travellers are apt to have , and are indolently willing to encourage . 
by the stopping of the coach . 
It was now quite night , and we were at the waterside . 
There lay here , a black boat , with a little house or cabin in it of the same mournful colour . 
When I had taken my seat in this , the boat was paddled , by two men , towards a great light , lying in the distance on the sea . 
Ever and again , there was a dismal sigh of wind . 
It ruffled the water , and rocked the boat , and sent the dark clouds flying before the stars . 
I could not but think how strange it was , to be floating away at that hour leaving the land behind , and going on , towards this light upon the sea . 
We had floated on , five miles or so , over the dark water , when I heard it rippling in my dream , against some obstruction near at hand . 
The chief of the two rowers said it was a burial place . 
Lights were shining from some of these casements , plumbing the depth of the black stream with their reflected rays , but all was profoundly silent . 
So we advanced into this ghostly city , continuing to hold our course through narrow streets and lanes , all filled and flowing with water . 
would come flitting past us like a dark shadow . 
Other boats , of the same sombre hue , were lying moored , I thought , to painted pillars , near to dark mysterious doors that opened straight upon the water . 
It was a great Piazza , as I thought anchored , like all the rest , in the deep ocean . 
I thought I entered the Cathedral , and went in and out among its many arches traversing its whole extent . 
The captives , by the glimmering of these brief rays , had scratched and cut inscriptions in the blackened vaults . 
For their labour with a rusty nail's point , had outlived their agony and them , through many generations . 
One cell , I saw , in which no man remained for more than four and twenty hours being marked for dead before he entered it . 
There was little sound of hammers in this place for building ships , and little work in progress for the greatness of the city was no more , as I have said . 
Indeed , it seemed a very wreck found drifting on the sea a strange flag hoisted in its honourable stations , and strangers standing at its helm . 
almost as eloquently as the massive pillars , arches , roofs , reared to overshadow stately ships that had no other shadow now , upon the water or the earth . 
An armoury was there yet . 
Plundered and despoiled but an armoury . 
With a fierce standard taken from the Turks , drooping in the dull air of its cage . 
Rich suits of mail worn by great warriors were hoarded there crossbows and bolts quivers full of arrows spears swords , daggers , maces , shields , and heavy headed axes . 
designed to do its office noiselessly , and made for shooting men with poisoned darts . 
In the luxurious wonder of so rare a dream , I took but little heed of time , and had but little understanding of its flight . 
Pictures were there , replete with such enduring beauty and expression with such passion , truth and power that they seemed so many young and fresh realities among a host of spectres . 
Then , coming down some marble staircase where the water lapped and oozed against the lower steps , I passed into my boat again , and went on in my dream . 
Past bridges , where there were idlers too loitering and looking over . 
Below stone balconies , erected at a giddy height , before the loftiest windows of the loftiest houses . 
Past plots of garden , theatres , shrines , prodigious piles of architecture Gothic Saracenic fanciful with all the fancies of all times and countries . 
Past buildings that were high , and low , and black , and white , and straight , and crooked mean and grand , crazy and strong . 
And , in the dream , I thought that Shakespeare's spirit was abroad upon the water somewhere stealing through the city . 
But close about the quays and churches , palaces and prisons sucking at their walls , and welling up into the secret places of the town crept the water always . 
Thus it floated me away , until I awoke in the old market place at Verona . 
I have , many and many a time , thought since , of this strange Dream upon the water half wondering if it lie there yet , and if its name be VENICE . 
But , I was no sooner come into the old market place , than the misgiving vanished . 
It was natural enough , to go straight from the Market place , to the House of the Capulets , now degenerated into a most miserable little inn . 
the ancient cognizance of the family , may still be seen , carved in stone , over the gateway of the yard . 
But the hat was unspeakably comfortable and the place where the garden used to be , hardly less so . 
Besides , the house is a distrustful , jealous looking house as one would desire to see , though of a very moderate size . 
It was a pleasure , rather than a disappointment , that Juliet's resting place was forgotten . 
Pleasant Verona ! With its beautiful old palaces , and charming country in the distance , seen from terrace walks , and stately , balustraded galleries . 
With its Roman gates , still spanning the fair street , and casting , on the sunlight of to day , the shade of fifteen hundred years ago . 
So well preserved , and carefully maintained , that every row of seats is there , unbroken . 
But little else is greatly changed . 
The comparison is a homely and fantastic one , in sober remembrance and on paper , but it was irresistibly suggested at the moment , nevertheless . 
in a straw bonnet and green veil , and a red spencer and who always carries a gigantic reticule , and a put up parasol . 
I walked through and through the town all the rest of the day , and could have walked there until now , I think . 
In one place , there was a very pretty modern theatre , where they had just performed the opera of Romeo and Juliet . 
In another place , there was a gallery of pictures so abominably bad , that it was quite delightful to see them mouldering away . 
, There is no world without Verona's walls But purgatory , torture , hell itself . 
If ever a man were suited to his place of residence , and his place of residence to him , the lean Apothecary and Mantua came together in a perfect fitness of things . 
It may have been more stirring then , perhaps . 
If so , the Apothecary was a man in advance of his time , and knew what Mantua would be , in eighteen hundred and forty four . 
He fasted much , and that assisted him in his foreknowledge . 
I engaged him on the instant , and he stepped in directly . 
While I finished the discussion in which I was engaged , he stood , beaming by himself in a corner , making a feint of brushing my hat with his arm . 
'Well ! said I , when I was ready , 'shall we go out now ? 'If the gentleman pleases . 
It is a beautiful day . 
A little fresh , but charming altogether charming . 
The gentleman will allow me to open the door . 
This is the Inn Yard . 
The court yard of the Golden Lion ! The gentleman will please to mind his footing on the stairs . 
We were now in the street . 
'This is the street of the Golden Lion . 
This , the outside of the Golden Lion . 
'Well ! Truly , no . 
Not much ! So , so , he said , shrugging his shoulders apologetically . 
Nearly all suppressed by the French . 
'Monasteries or convents ? 'No . 
The French again ! Nearly all suppressed by Napoleon . 
'Much business ? 'Very little business . 
'Many strangers ? 'Ah Heaven ! I thought he would have fainted . 
It was impossible to be anything but delighted with the proposal , so we set off together in great good humour . 
In the relief of his mind , he opened his heart , and gave up as much of Mantua as a Cicerone could . 
, we went to the Museum , which was shut up . 
'It was all the same , he said . 
Then , we went to a dismal sort of farm yard , by which a picture gallery was approached . 
The geese who saved the Capitol , were , as compared to these , Pork to the learned Pig . 
What a gallery it was ! I would take their opinion on a question of art , in preference to the discourses of Sir Joshua Reynolds . 
imparted new life to him , and away we went . 
The Palazzo Te stands in a swamp , among this sort of vegetation and is , indeed , as singular a place as I ever saw . 
Not for its dreariness , though it is very dreary . 
Not for its dampness , though it is very damp . 
Nor for its desolate condition , though it is as desolate and neglected as house can be . 
on the walls of another room , so inconceivably ugly and grotesque , that it is marvellous how any man can have imagined such creatures . 
a violent rush of blood to the head of the spectator , than any real picture set before him by the hand of an artist . 
began TO ASK THE WAY to Milan . 
Heaven shield all imitators of San Carlo Borromeo as it shielded him ! A reforming Pope would need a little shielding , even now . 
The subterranean chapel in which the body of San Carlo Borromeo is preserved , presents as striking and as ghastly a contrast , perhaps , as any place can show . 
Jewels , and precious metals , shine and sparkle on every side . 
The shrunken heap of poor earth in the midst of this great glitter , is more pitiful than if it lay upon a dung hill . 
There is not a ray of imprisoned light in all the flash and fire of jewels , but seems to mock the dusty holes where eyes were , once . 
Every thread of silk in the rich vestments seems only a provision from the worms that spin , for the behoof of worms that propagate in sepulchres . 
But this , by the way . 
I never saw anything more effective . 
I should have thought it almost impossible to present such an idea so strongly on the stage , without the aid of speech . 
The beautiful day was just declining , when we came upon the Lago Maggiore , with its lovely islands . 
For however fanciful and fantastic the Isola Bella may be , and is , it still is beautiful . 
Anything springing out of that blue water , with that scenery around it , must be . 
It was ten o'clock at night when we got to Domo d'Ossola , at the foot of the Pass of the Simplon . 
But as the moon was shining brightly , and there was not a cloud in the starlit sky , it was no time for going to bed , or going anywhere but on . 
So , we got a little carriage , after some delay , and began the ascent . 
, the air was piercing cold . 
Towards daybreak , we came among the snow , where a keen wind was blowing fiercely . 
for keeping out the bitter storms . 
A sledge being then made ready , and four horses harnessed to it , we went , ploughing , through the snow . 
Still upward , but now in the cold light of morning , and with the great white desert on which we travelled , plain and clear . 
The lonely grandeur of the scene was then at its height . 
Or how the road to Paris , was one sea of mud , and thence to the coast , a little better for a hard frost . 
Or how the cliffs of Dover were a pleasant sight , and England was so wonderfully neat though dark , and lacking colour on a winter's day , it must be conceded . 
Or how , a few days afterwards , it was cool , re crossing the channel , with ice upon the decks , and snow lying pretty deep in France . 
Therefore , like GRUMIO'S story , 'it shall die in oblivion . 
CHAPTER IX TO ROME BY PISA AND SIENA THERE is nothing in Italy , more beautiful to me , than the coast road between Genoa and Spezzia . 
Seen from the road above , it is like a tiny model on the margin of the dimpled water , shining in the sun . 
Descended into , by the winding mule tracks , it is a perfect miniature of a primitive seafaring town the saltest , roughest , most piratical little place that ever was seen . 
The coast road whence Camoglia is descried so far below , is famous , in the warm season , especially in some parts near Genoa , for fire flies . 
It was not in such a season , however , that we traversed this road on our way to Rome . 
The middle of January was only just past , and it was very gloomy and dark weather very wet besides . 
In crossing the fine pass of Bracco , we encountered such a storm of mist and rain , that we travelled in a cloud the whole way . 
The Magra safely crossed in the Ferry Boat the passage is not by any means agreeable , when the current is swollen and strong we arrived at Carrara , within a few hours . 
In good time next morning , we got some ponies , and went out to see the marble quarries . 
They are four or five great glens , running up into a range of lofty hills , until they can run no longer , and are stopped by being abruptly strangled by Nature . 
Some of these caves were opened by the ancient Romans , and remain as they left them to this hour . 
where the Roc left Sindbad the Sailor and where the merchants from the heights above , flung down great pieces of meat for the diamonds to stick to . 
There were no eagles here , to darken the sun in their swoop , and pounce upon them but it was as wild and fierce as if there had been hundreds . 
Carrara , shut in by great hills , is very picturesque and bold . 
Few tourists stay there and the people are nearly all connected , in one way or other , with the working of marble . 
There are also villages among the caves , where the workmen live . 
sing vilely out of tune , and have very disagreeable singing voices . 
Nor is it only distance that lends enchantment to the view for the fruitful country , and rich woods of olive trees through which the road subsequently passes , render it delightful . 
Like most things connected in their first associations with school books and school times , it was too small . 
It was nothing like so high above the wall as I had hoped . 
It was another of the many deceptions practised by Mr. Harris , Bookseller , at the corner of St . 
HIS Tower was a fiction , but this was a reality and , by comparison , a short reality . 
Still , it looked very well , and very strange , and was quite as much out of the perpendicular as Harris had represented it to be . 
, but forgave him before dinner , and went out , full of confidence , to see the Tower next morning . 
I might have known better but , somehow , I had expected to see it , casting its long shadow on a public street where people came and went all day . 
It was a surprise to me to find it in a grave retired place , apart from the general resort , and carpeted with smooth green turf . 
It is the architectural essence of a rich old city , with all its common life and common habitations pressed out , and filtered away . 
SIMOND compares the Tower to the usual pictorial representations in children's books of the Tower of Babel . 
It is a happy simile , and conveys a better idea of the building than chapters of laboured description . 
Nothing can exceed the grace and lightness of the structure nothing can be more remarkable than its general appearance . 
The view within , from the ground looking up , as through a slanted tube is also very curious . 
It certainly inclines as much as the most sanguine tourist could desire . 
There is a picture of St . 
Agnes , by Andrea del Sarto , in the former , and there are a variety of rich columns in the latter , that tempt me strongly . 
On the walls of this solemn and lovely place , are ancient frescoes , very much obliterated and decayed , but very curious . 
But the same Corsican face is so plentiful in some parts of Italy at this day , that a more commonplace solution of the coincidence is unavoidable . 
If Pisa be the seventh wonder of the world in right of its Tower , it may claim to be , at least , the second or third in right of its beggars . 
The beggars seem to embody all the trade and enterprise of Pisa . 
Nothing else is stirring , but warm air . 
Going through the streets , the fronts of the sleepy houses look like backs . 
is seen walking off by itself into illimitable perspective . 
, which is a thriving , business like , matter of fact place , where idleness is shouldered out of the way by commerce . 
The regulations observed there , in reference to trade and merchants , are very liberal and free and the town , of course , benefits by them . 
in the streets at night , for the pleasure and excitement of the recreation . 
I think the president of this amiable society was a shoemaker . 
He was taken , however , and the club was broken up . 
There must have been a slight sensation , as of earthquake , surely , in the Vatican , when the first Italian railroad was thrown open . 
The roadside crosses in this part of Italy are numerous and curious . 
The cock that crowed when Peter had denied his Master thrice , is usually perched on the tip top and an ornithological phenomenon he generally is . 
Under him , is the inscription . 
On the evening of the second day from Pisa , we reached the beautiful old city of Siena . 
It is like a bit of Venice , without the water . 
the interest of Verona , or Genoa , it is very dreamy and fantastic , and most interesting . 
, stopped , as usual , between one and two hours in the middle of the day , to rest the horses that being a part of every Vetturino contract . 
We then went on again , through a region gradually becoming bleaker and wilder , until it became as bare and desolate as any Scottish moors . 
The fireplace was of the purest Italian architecture , so that it was perfectly impossible to see it for the smoke . 
The waitress was like a dramatic brigand's wife , and wore the same style of dress upon her head . 
They were not improved by rumours of robbers having come out , strong and boldly , within a few nights and of their having stopped the mail very near that place . 
They were known to have waylaid some travellers not long before , on Mount Vesuvius itself , and were the talk at all the roadside inns . 
, we made ourselves merry on the subject , and were very soon as comfortable as need be . 
We had the usual dinner in this solitary house and a very good dinner it is , when you are used to it . 
There is the half fowl of which this soup has been made . 
There is a stewed pigeon , with the gizzards and livers of himself and other birds stuck all round him . 
There is a bit of roast beef , the size of a small French roll . 
Then there is coffee and then there is bed . 
without any great trial of your patience anywhere . 
Especially , when you get such wine in flasks , as the Orvieto , and the Monte Pulciano . 
It is full of such rambling corridors , and gaunt rooms , that all the murdering and phantom tales that ever were written might have originated in that one house . 
The town , such as it is , hangs on a hill side above the house , and in front of it . 
The inhabitants are all beggars and as soon as they see a carriage coming , they swoop down upon it , like so many birds of prey . 
, to prevent its going , Heaven knows where . 
For mere force of wind , this land storm might have competed with an Atlantic gale , and had a reasonable chance of coming off victorious . 
It seemed as if , once blown from our feet , we must be swept out to sea , or away into space . 
There was snow , and hail , and rain , and lightning , and thunder and there were rolling mists , travelling with incredible velocity . 
It was a relief to get out of it , notwithstanding and to cross even the dismal , dirty Papal Frontier . 
not a boat upon its waters not a stick or stake to break the dismal monotony of seven and twenty watery miles . 
We were late in getting in , the roads being very bad from heavy rains and , after dark , the dulness of the scene was quite intolerable . 
We entered on a very different , and a finer scene of desolation , next night , at sunset . 
Where this lake flows , there stood , of old , a city . 
It was swallowed up one day and in its stead , this water rose . 
of the ruined city having been seen below , when the water was clear but however that may be , from this spot of earth it vanished . 
The unhappy city below , is not more lost and dreary , than these fire charred hills and the stagnant water , above . 
A short ride from this lake , brought us to Ronciglione a little town like a large pig sty , where we passed the night . 
Next morning at seven o'clock , we started for Rome . 
, where few people can live and where , for miles and miles , there is nothing to relieve the terrible monotony and gloom . 
Of all kinds of country that could , by possibility , lie outside the gates of Rome , this is the aptest and fittest burial ground for the Dead City . 
We had crossed the Tiber by the Ponte Molle two or three miles before . 
It had looked as yellow as it ought to look , and hurrying on between its worn away and miry banks , had a promising aspect of desolation and ruin . 
The masquerade dresses on the fringe of the Carnival , did great violence to this promise . 
There were no great ruins , no solemn tokens of antiquity , to be seen they all lie on the other side of the city . 
Immediately on going out next day , we hurried off to St . 
It looked immense in the distance , but distinctly and decidedly small , by comparison , on a near approach . 
The first burst of the interior , in all its expansive majesty and glory and , most of all , the looking up into the Dome is a sensation never to be forgotten . 
as it is possible to entertain , I felt no very strong emotion . 
I have been infinitely more affected in many English cathedrals when the organ has been playing , and in many English country churches when the congregation have been singing . 
I had a much greater sense of mystery and wonder , in the Cathedral of San Mark at Venice . 
, we said to the coachman , 'Go to the Coliseum . 
In a quarter of an hour or so , he stopped at the gate , and we went in . 
It is the most impressive , the most stately , the most solemn , grand , majestic , mournful sight , conceivable . 
Except where the distant Apennines bound the view upon the left , the whole wide prospect is one field of ruin . 
Broken aqueducts , left in the most picturesque and beautiful clusters of arches broken temples broken tombs . 
A desert of decay , sombre and desolate beyond all expression and with a history in every stone that strews the ground . 
On Sunday , the Pope assisted in the performance of High Mass at St . 
The effect of the Cathedral on my mind , on that second visit , was exactly what it was at first , and what it remains after many visits . 
It is not religiously impressive or affecting . 
It is an immense edifice , with no one point for the mind to rest upon and it tires itself with wandering round and round . 
The very purpose of the place , is not expressed in anything you see there , unless you examine its details and all examination of details is incompatible with the place itself . 
It might be a Pantheon , or a Senate House , or a great architectural trophy , having no other object than an architectural triumph . 
There is a black statue of St . 
Peter , to be sure , under a red canopy which is larger than life and which is constantly having its great toe kissed by good Catholics . 
You cannot help seeing that it is so very prominent and popular . 
But it does not heighten the effect of the temple , as a work of art and it is not expressive to me at least of its high purpose . 
A large space behind the altar , was fitted up with boxes , shaped like those at the Italian Opera in England , but in their decoration much more gaudy . 
In the centre of the kind of theatre thus railed off , was a canopied dais with the Pope's chair upon it . 
On either side of the altar , was a large box for lady strangers . 
These were filled with ladies in black dresses and black veils . 
, and stood there at my ease , during the performance of Mass . 
in one corner and sang most atrociously . 
Some of these had muddy sandals and umbrellas , and stained garments having trudged in from the country . 
They loitered about with these for some time , under their arms like walking sticks , or in their hands like truncheons . 
This was done in a very attenuated procession , as you may suppose , and occupied a long time . 
Not because it takes long to bless a candle through and through , but because there were so many candles to be blessed . 
At last they were all blessed and then they were all lighted and then the Pope was taken up , chair and all , and carried round the church . 
I must say , that I never saw anything , out of November , so like the popular English commemoration of the fifth of that month . 
A bundle of matches and a lantern , would have made it perfect . 
The two immense fans which are always borne , one on either side of him , accompanied him , of course , on this occasion . 
As they carried him along , he blessed the people with the mystic sign and as he passed them , they kneeled down . 
There was , certainly nothing solemn or effective in it and certainly very much that was droll and tawdry . 
and a large clothes basket full of flowers to be conveyed into our hired barouche , with all speed . 
And from our place of observation , in one of the upper balconies of the hotel , we contemplated these arrangements with the liveliest satisfaction . 
The Corso is a street a mile long a street of shops , and palaces , and private houses , sometimes opening into a broad piazza . 
This is the great fountain head and focus of the Carnival . 
Presently , we came into a narrow street , where , besides one line of carriages going , there was another line of carriages returning . 
with a precision that was much applauded by the bystanders . 
The buildings seemed to have been literally turned inside out , and to have all their gaiety towards the highway . 
Every sort of bewitching madness of dress was there . 
In some , the horses were richly caparisoned in magnificent trappings in others they were decked from head to tail , with flowing ribbons . 
than tongue can tell , or pen describe . 
Still , carriages on carriages , dresses on dresses , colours on colours , crowds upon crowds , without end . 
that this is not the whole business of his existence , by hearing the trumpets sound , and seeing the dragoons begin to clear the street . 
At a given signal they are started off . 
But it is soon over almost instantaneously . 
More cannon shake the town . 
and there is an end to that day's sport . 
The same diversions , greatly heightened and intensified in the ardour with which they are pursued , go on until the same hour . 
The race is repeated the cannon are fired the shouting and clapping of hands are renewed the cannon are fired again the race is over and the prizes are won . 
until nothing is heard but a gigantic chorus of those two words , mingled with peals of laughter . 
The spectacle , at this time , is one of the most extraordinary that can be imagined . 
is supposed by some to be a ceremony of burlesque mourning for the death of the Carnival candles being indispensable to Catholic grief . 
, than for its innocent vivacity . 
We often encountered , in these expeditions , a company of English Tourists , with whom I had an ardent , but ungratified longing , to establish a speaking acquaintance . 
They were one Mr. Davis , and a small circle of friends . 
It was impossible not to know Mrs. Davis's name , from her being always in great request among her party , and her party being everywhere . 
During the Holy Week , they were in every part of every scene of every ceremony . 
Deep underground , high up in St . 
Peter's , out on the Campagna , and stifling in the Jews' quarter , Mrs. Davis turned up , all the same . 
This caused them to scream for him , in the strangest places , and at the most improper seasons . 
Eighteen hundred years ago , the Roman legions under Claudius , protested against being led into Mr. and Mrs. Davis's country , urging that it lay beyond the limits of the world . 
Among what may be called the Cubs or minor Lions of Rome , there was one that amused me mightily . 
It is always to be found there and its den is on the great flight of steps that lead from the Piazza di Spagna , to the church of Trinita del Monte . 
In plainer words , these steps are the great place of resort for the artists' 'Models , and there they are constantly waiting to be hired . 
I soon found that we had made acquaintance , and improved it , for several years , on the walls of various Exhibition Galleries . 
There is one old gentleman , with long white hair and an immense beard , who , to my knowledge , has gone half through the catalogue of the Royal Academy . 
This is the venerable , or patriarchal model . 
He carries a long staff and every knot and twist in that staff I have seen , faithfully delineated , innumerable times . 
, and who , I need not say , is always very wide awake , and very attentive to the disposition of his legs . 
This is the DOLCE FAR' NIENTE model . 
This is the assassin model . 
There is another man , who constantly looks over his own shoulder , and is always going away , but never does . 
This is the haughty , or scornful model . 
At Rome , there is the same arrangement of Pits in a great , bleak , open , dreary space , that I have already described as existing in Genoa . 
'How does it come to be left here ? I asked the man who showed me the place . 
'It was brought here half an hour ago , Signore , he said . 
I remembered to have met the procession , on its return straggling away at a good round pace . 
'When will it be put in the pit ? I asked him . 
'When the cart comes , and it is opened to night , he said . 
'How much does it cost to be brought here in this way , instead of coming in the cart ? I asked him . 
'Ten scudi , he said . 
Why not ? Among the innumerable churches , there is one I must select for separate mention . 
, were already assembled and where one hollow cheeked young monk was lighting up divers candles , while another was putting on some clerical robes over his coarse brown habit . 
Then , with many genuflexions , and muttering certain prayers , he opened it , and let down the front , and took off sundry coverings of satin and lace from the inside . 
There was scarcely a spot upon its little breast , or neck , or stomach , but was sparkling with the costly offerings of the Faithful . 
When this was done , he laid it in the box again and the company , rising , drew near , and commended the jewels in whispers . 
The candles being all extinguished , and the money all collected , they retired , and so did the spectators . 
I met this same Bambino , in the street a short time afterwards , going , in great state , to the house of some sick person . 
It is a very valuable property , and much confided in especially by the religious body to whom it belongs . 
trouble her with it , and intrude themselves into her room , it will certainly kill her . 
My informant accordingly looked out of the window when it came and , with many thanks , declined to open the door . 
But , he strove against it unsuccessfully , and she expired while the crowd were pressing round her bed . 
Among the people who drop into St . 
The scene in all the churches is the strangest possible . 
Above all , there is always a receptacle for the contributions of the Faithful , in some form or other . 
And this reminds me that some Roman altars of peculiar sanctity , bear the inscription , 'Every Mass performed at this altar frees a soul from Purgatory . 
I have never been able to find out the charge for one of these services , but they should needs be expensive . 
There are several Crosses in Rome too , the kissing of which , confers indulgences for varying terms . 
That in the centre of the Coliseum , is worth a hundred days and people may be seen kissing it from morning to night . 
It is curious that some of these crosses seem to acquire an arbitrary popularity this very one among them . 
In another part of the Coliseum there is a cross upon a marble slab , with the inscription , 'Who kisses this cross shall be entitled to Two hundred and forty days' indulgence . 
To single out details from the great dream of Roman Churches , would be the wildest occupation in the world . 
There is an upper chamber in the Mamertine prisons , over what is said to have been and very possibly may have been the dungeon of St . 
This chamber is now fitted up as an oratory , dedicated to that saint and it lives , as a distinct and separate place , in my recollection , too . 
It is an awful thing to think of the enormous caverns that are entered from some Roman churches , and undermine the city . 
Beneath the church of St . 
Some accounts make these the prisons of the wild beasts destined for the amphitheatre some the prisons of the condemned gladiators some , both . 
These ghastly passages have been explored for twenty miles and form a chain of labyrinths , sixty miles in circumference . 
A gaunt Franciscan friar , with a wild bright eye , was our only guide , down into this profound and dreadful place . 
Such are the spots and patches in my dream of churches , that remain apart , and keep their separate identity . 
, a man was beheaded here . 
the Tomb of Nero robbed her and beat her to death with her own pilgrim's staff . 
He was newly married , and gave some of her apparel to his wife saying that he had bought it at a fair . 
She , however , who had seen the pilgrim countess passing through their town , recognised some trifle as having belonged to her . 
Her husband then told her what he had done . 
She , in confession , told a priest and the man was taken , within four days after the commission of the murder . 
There are no fixed times for the administration of justice , or its execution , in this unaccountable country and he had been in prison ever since . 
On the Friday , as he was dining with the other prisoners , they came and told him he was to be beheaded next morning , and took him away . 
I heard of this on the Friday evening , and saw the bills up at the churches , calling on the people to pray for the criminal's soul . 
So , I determined to go , and see him executed . 
The beheading was appointed for fourteen and a half o'clock , Roman time or a quarter before nine in the forenoon . 
I had two friends with me and as we did not know but that the crowd might be very great , we were on the spot by half past seven . 
Opposite to one of these , a white house , the scaffold was built . 
There were not many people lingering about and these were kept at a considerable distance from the scaffold , by parties of the Pope's dragoons . 
Nine o'clock struck , and ten o'clock struck , and nothing happened . 
All the bells of all the churches rang as usual . 
A little parliament of dogs assembled in the open space , and chased each other , in and out among the soldiers . 
Fierce looking Romans of the lowest class , in blue cloaks , russet cloaks , and rags uncloaked , came and went , and talked together . 
Women and children fluttered , on the skirts of the scanty crowd . 
One large muddy spot was left quite bare , like a bald place on a man's head . 
A cigar merchant , with an earthen pot of charcoal ashes in one hand , went up and down , crying his wares . 
A pastry merchant divided his attention between the scaffold and his customers . 
Boys tried to climb up walls , and tumbled down again . 
Priests and monks elbowed a passage for themselves among the people , and stood on tiptoe for a sight of the knife then went away . 
of no age at all , flashed picturesque scowls about them from their stations in the throng . 
People began to drop off . 
The officers shrugged their shoulders and looked doubtful . 
, became imperious , and quick tempered . 
The bald place hadn't a straggling hair upon it and the corpulent officer , crowning the perspective , took a world of snuff . 
Suddenly , there was a noise of trumpets . 
'Attention ! was among the foot soldiers instantly . 
They were marched up to the scaffold and formed round it . 
The dragoons galloped to their nearer stations too . 
The guillotine became the centre of a wood of bristling bayonets and shining sabres . 
The people closed round nearer , on the flank of the soldiery . 
A long straggling stream of men and boys , who had accompanied the procession from the prison , came pouring into the open space . 
The bald spot was scarcely distinguishable from the rest . 
The cigar and pastry merchants resigned all thoughts of business , for the moment , and abandoning themselves wholly to pleasure , got good situations in the crowd . 
The perspective ended , now , in a troop of dragoons . 
And the corpulent officer , sword in hand , looked hard at a church close to him , which he could see , but we , the crowd , could not . 
This was carried round the foot of the scaffold , to the front , and turned towards the criminal , that he might see it to the last . 
A young man six and twenty vigorously made , and well shaped . 
Face pale small dark moustache and dark brown hair . 
He had refused to confess , it seemed , without first having his wife brought to see him and they had sent an escort for her , which had occasioned the delay . 
He immediately kneeled down , below the knife . 
His neck fitting into a hole , made for the purpose , in a cross plank , was shut down , by another plank above exactly like the pillory . 
Immediately below him was a leathern bag . 
And into it his head rolled instantly . 
The eyes were turned upward , as if he had avoided the sight of the leathern bag , and looked to the crucifix . 
Every tinge and hue of life had left it in that instant . 
It was dull , cold , livid , wax . 
There was a great deal of blood . 
A strange appearance was the apparent annihilation of the neck . 
Nobody cared , or was at all affected . 
There was no manifestation of disgust , or pity , or indignation , or sorrow . 
My empty pockets were tried , several times , in the crowd immediately below the scaffold , as the corpse was being put into its coffin . 
It was an ugly , filthy , careless , sickening spectacle meaning nothing but butchery beyond the momentary interest , to the one wretched actor . 
Yes ! Such a sight has one meaning and one warning . 
Let me not forget it . 
The speculators in the lottery , station themselves at favourable points for counting the gouts of blood that spirt out , here or there and buy that number . 
It is pretty sure to have a run upon it . 
The body was carted away in due time , the knife cleansed , the scaffold taken down , and all the hideous apparatus removed . 
who dare not , for his life , cross the Bridge of St . 
Angelo but to do his work retreated to his lair , and the show was over . 
Many most noble statues , and wonderful pictures , are there nor is it heresy to say that there is a considerable amount of rubbish there , too . 
Neither am I partial to libellous Angels , who play on fiddles and bassoons , for the edification of sprawling monks apparently in liquor . 
It seems to me , too , that the indiscriminate and determined raptures in which some critics indulge , is incompatible with the true appreciation of the really great and transcendent works . 
They are especially impressive and delightful , after the works of Bernini and his disciples , in which the churches of Rome , from St . 
Peter's downward , abound and which are , I verily believe , the most detestable class of productions in the wide world . 
It may seem an odd idea , but it is very effective . 
In the private palaces , pictures are seen to the best advantage . 
There are seldom so many in one place that the attention need become distracted , or the eye confused . 
You see them very leisurely and are rarely interrupted by a crowd of people . 
The portrait of Beatrice di Cenci , in the Palazzo Berberini , is a picture almost impossible to be forgotten . 
Through the transcendent sweetness and beauty of the face , there is a something shining out , that haunts me . 
I see it now , as I see this paper , or my pen . 
The head is loosely draped in white the light hair falling down below the linen folds . 
The History is written in the Painting written , in the dying girl's face , by Nature's own hand . 
The excursions in the neighbourhood of Rome are charming , and would be full of interest were it only for the changing views they afford , of the wild Campagna . 
But , every inch of ground , in every direction , is rich in associations , and in natural beauties . 
There is squalid Tivoli , with the river Anio , diverted from its course , and plunging down , headlong , some eighty feet in search of it . 
There , too , is the Villa d'Este , deserted and decaying among groves of melancholy pine and cypress trees , where it seems to lie in state . 
, and where Cato was born . 
We started at half past seven in the morning , and within an hour or so were out upon the open Campagna . 
For twelve miles we went climbing on , over an unbroken succession of mounds , and heaps , and hills , of ruin . 
as if the sun would never rise again , but looked its last , that night , upon a ruined world . 
To come again on Rome , by moonlight , after such an expedition , is a fitting close to such a day . 
As you rattle round the sharply twisting corner , a lumbering sound is heard . 
makes an opaque triangle in the moonlight . 
But , to an English traveller , it serves to mark the grave of Shelley too , whose ashes lie beneath a little garden near it . 
Nearer still , almost within its shadow , lie the bones of Keats , 'whose name is writ in water , that shines brightly in the landscape of a calm Italian night . 
We abandoned the pursuit of these shows , very early in the proceedings , and betook ourselves to the Ruins again . 
But , we plunged into the crowd for a share of the best of the sights and what we saw , I will describe to you . 
The consequence was , that it occasioned the most extraordinary confusion , and seemed to wind itself about the unwary , like a Serpent . 
Now , a lady was wrapped up in it , and couldn't be unwound . 
Now , the voice of a stifling gentleman was heard inside it , beseeching to be let out . 
Now , two muffled arms , no man could say of which sex , struggled in it as in a sack . 
Now , it was carried by a rush , bodily overhead into the chapel , like an awning . 
Now , it came out the other way , and blinded one of the Pope's Swiss Guard , who had arrived , that moment , to set things to rights . 
Sometimes , there was a swell of mournful voices that sounded very pathetic and sad , and died away , into a low strain again but that was all we heard . 
At another time , there was the Exhibition of Relics in St . 
The place into which the relics were brought , one by one , by a party of three priests , was a high balcony near the chief altar . 
This was the only lighted part of the church . 
There are always a hundred and twelve lamps burning near the altar , and there were two tall tapers , besides , near the black statue of St . 
Peter but these were nothing in such an immense edifice . 
for an hour or so , while they were chaunting the Miserere , in the Sistine chapel again . 
Both chapels opened out of the gallery and the general attention was concentrated on the occasional opening and shutting of the door of the one for which the Pope was ultimately bound . 
a charge of the heavy British cavalry at Waterloo . 
Those who were not handsome , or who had not long beards , carried THEIR tapers anyhow , and abandoned themselves to spiritual contemplation . 
Meanwhile , the chaunting was very monotonous and dreary . 
A few more couples brought up the rear , and passed into the chapel also . 
was the Pope washing the feet of Thirteen men , representing the twelve apostles , and Judas Iscariot . 
The place in which this pious office is performed , is one of the chapels of St . 
They are robed in white and on their heads they wear a stiff white cap , like a large English porter pot , without a handle . 
There was a great eye to character . 
John was represented by a good looking young man . 
that if he had acted the part to the death and had gone away and hanged himself , he would have left nothing to be desired . 
The body of the room was full of male strangers the crowd immense the heat very great and the pressure sometimes frightful . 
The ladies were particularly ferocious , in their struggles for places . 
who improved her position by sticking a large pin into the ladies before her . 
'By Jupiter there's vinegar ! I heard him say to his friend , after he had stood on tiptoe an immense time , and had been crushed and beaten on all sides . 
and then the whole Thirteen sat down to dinner . 
Grace said by the Pope . 
There was white wine , and red wine and the dinner looked very good . 
The courses appeared in portions , one for each apostle and these being presented to the Pope , by Cardinals upon their knees , were by him handed to the Thirteen . 
The manner in which Judas grew more white livered over his victuals , and languished , with his head on one side , as if he had no appetite , defies all description . 
and saying nothing to anybody . 
The dishes appeared to be chiefly composed of fish and vegetables . 
His Holiness did what he had to do , as a sensible man gets through a troublesome ceremony , and seemed very glad when it was all over . 
The Pilgrims' Suppers where lords and ladies waited on the Pilgrims , in token of humility , and dried their feet when they had been well washed by deputy were very attractive . 
Pilgrims ascend it , only on their knees . 
The majority were country people , male and female . 
There were four or five Jesuit priests , however , and some half dozen well dressed women . 
A whole school of boys , twenty at least , were about half way up evidently enjoying it very much . 
There are two steps to begin with , and then a rather broad landing . 
Some got on as if they were doing a match against time others stopped to say a prayer on every step . 
This man touched every stair with his forehead , and kissed it that man scratched his head all the way . 
The boys got on brilliantly , and were up and down again before the old lady had accomplished her half dozen stairs . 
, it gave a great leap and rattle , and nearly shook the attendant lamp out horribly frightening the people further down , and throwing the guilty party into unspeakable embarrassment . 
On Easter Sunday , as well as on the preceding Thursday , the Pope bestows his benediction on the people , from the balcony in front of St . 
This Easter Sunday was a day so bright and blue so cloudless , balmy , wonderfully bright that all the previous bad weather vanished from the recollection in a moment . 
were so full of colour , that nothing in them was capable of wearing a faded aspect . 
One hundred and fifty thousand people were there at least ! Yet there was ample room . 
How many carriages were there , I don't know yet there was room for them too , and to spare . 
The great steps of the church were densely crowded . 
, in that part of the square , and the mingling of bright colours in the crowd was beautiful . 
Below the steps the troops were ranged . 
In the magnificent proportions of the place they looked like a bed of flowers . 
A kind of bright carpet was hung over the front of the balcony and the sides of the great window were bedecked with crimson drapery . 
An awning was stretched , too , over the top , to screen the old man from the hot rays of the sun . 
As noon approached , all eyes were turned up to this window . 
In due time , the chair was seen approaching to the front , with the gigantic fans of peacock's feathers , close behind . 
The guns upon the ramparts of the Castle of St . 
What a bright noon it was , as we rode away ! The Tiber was no longer yellow , but blue . 
There was a blush on the old bridges , that made them fresh and hale again . 
The Pantheon , with its majestic front , all seamed and furrowed like an old face , had summer light upon its battered walls . 
was fresh and new with some ray of the sun . 
The next night Easter Monday there was a great display of fireworks from the Castle of St . 
, and , among them , great vessels full of burning tow were placed glaring strangely on the faces of the crowd , and not less strangely on the stone counterfeits above them . 
The concluding burst the Girandola was like the blowing up into the air of the whole massive castle , without smoke or dust . 
By way of contrast we rode out into old ruined Rome , after all this firing and booming , to take our leave of the Coliseum . 
, but its tremendous solitude that night is past all telling . 
Here and there , we pass a solitary guard house here and there a hovel , deserted , and walled up . 
Some herdsmen loiter on the banks of the stream beside the road , and sometimes a flat bottomed boat , towed by a man , comes rippling idly along it . 
Take note of Fondi , in the name of all that is wretched and beggarly . 
A filthy channel of mud and refuse meanders down the centre of the miserable streets , fed by obscene rivulets that trickle from the abject houses . 
The wretched history of the town , with all its sieges and pillages by Barbarossa and the rest , might have been acted last year . 
How the gaunt dogs that sneak about the miserable streets , come to be alive , and undevoured by the people , is one of the enigmas of the world . 
A hollow cheeked and scowling people they are ! All beggars but that's nothing . 
Look at them as they gather round . 
The shrill cry raised at this , awakens half a dozen wild creatures wrapped in frowsy brown cloaks , who are lying on the church steps with pots and pans for sale . 
These , scrambling up , approach , and beg defiantly . 
Listen to me , Signor . 
So we go , rattling down hill , into Naples . 
A funeral is coming up the street , towards us . 
The body , on an open bier , borne on a kind of palanquin , covered with a gay cloth of crimson and gold . 
The mourners , in white gowns and masks . 
If there be death abroad , life is well represented too , for all Naples would seem to be out of doors , and tearing to and fro in carriages . 
Some of these , the common Vetturino vehicles , are drawn by three horses abreast , decked with smart trappings and great abundance of brazen ornament , and always going very fast . 
Here is a galley slave in chains , who wants a letter written to a friend . 
He approaches a clerkly looking man , sitting under the corner arch , and makes his bargain . 
He has obtained permission of the sentinel who guards him who stands near , leaning against the wall and cracking nuts . 
After a time , the galley slave becomes discursive incoherent . 
The secretary pauses and rubs his chin . 
The galley slave is voluble and energetic . 
The galley slave is silent . 
The soldier stoically cracks his nuts . 
Is there anything more to say ? inquires the letter writer . 
Then listen , friend of mine . 
The galley slave is quite enchanted . 
It is folded , and addressed , and given to him , and he pays the fee . 
The secretary falls back indolently in his chair , and takes a book . 
The galley slave gathers up an empty sack . 
The sentinel throws away a handful of nut shells , shoulders his musket , and away they go together . 
The other nods briskly , and goes his way . 
He has been invited to a friendly dinner at half past five o'clock , and will certainly come . 
All over Italy , a peculiar shake of the right hand from the wrist , with the forefinger stretched out , expresses a negative the only negative beggars will ever understand . 
But , in Naples , those five fingers are a copious language . 
The fairest country in the world , is spread about us . 
where the Saint suffered martyrdom , becomes faintly red . 
It is said that the officiating priests turn faintly red also , sometimes , when these miracles occur . 
Two of these old spectres totter away , with lighted tapers , to show the caverns of death as unconcerned as if they were immortal . 
In the rest there is nothing but dust . 
They consist , chiefly , of great wide corridors and labyrinths , hewn out of the rock . 
At the end of some of these long passages , are unexpected glimpses of the daylight , shining down from above . 
It looks as ghastly and as strange among the torches , and the dust , and the dark vaults as if it , too , were dead and buried . 
The present burial place lies out yonder , on a hill between the city and Vesuvius . 
The old Campo Santo with its three hundred and sixty five pits , is only used for those who die in hospitals , and prisons , and are unclaimed by their friends . 
The graceful new cemetery , at no great distance from it , though yet unfinished , has already many graves among its shrubs and flowers , and airy colonnades . 
After it was shaken by the earthquake which preceded the eruption , workmen were employed in shaping out , in stone , new ornaments for temples and other buildings that had suffered . 
Here lies their work , outside the city gate , as if they would return to morrow . 
In the wine cellars , they forced their way into the earthen vessels displacing the wine and choking them , to the brim , with dust . 
In the tombs , they forced the ashes of the dead from the funeral urns , and rained new ruin even into them . 
The mouths , and eyes , and skulls of all the skeletons , were stuffed with this terrible hail . 
In Herculaneum , where the flood was of a different and a heavier kind , it rolled in , like a sea . 
Imagine a deluge of water turned to marble , at its height and that is what is called 'the lava' here . 
at the bottom of the excavation and found the buried city of Herculaneum . 
But this perceived and understood , the horror and oppression of its presence are indescribable . 
The least among these objects , lends its aid to swell the interest of Vesuvius , and invest it with a perfect fascination . 
To nothing but Vesuvius but the mountain is the genius of the scene . 
From every indication of the ruin it has worked , we look , again , with an absorbing interest to where its smoke is rising up into the sky . 
After much violent skirmishing , and more noise than would suffice for the storming of Naples , the procession starts . 
The head guide , who is liberally paid for all the attendants , rides a little in advance of the party the other thirty guides proceed on foot . 
Eight go forward with the litters that are to be used by and by and the remaining two and twenty beg . 
We ascend , gradually , by stony lanes like rough broad flights of stairs , for some time . 
And now , we halt to see the sun set . 
The only light is reflected from the snow , deep , hard , and white , with which the cone is covered . 
It is now intensely cold , and the air is piercing . 
The thirty one have brought no torches , knowing that the moon will rise before we reach the top . 
The rather heavy gentleman is carried by fifteen men each of the ladies by half a dozen . 
The rising of the moon soon afterwards , revives the flagging spirits of the bearers . 
Stimulating each other with their usual watchword , 'Courage , friend ! It is to eat macaroni ! they press on , gallantly , for the summit . 
the intolerable noise of the thirty and the hoarse roaring of the mountain make it a scene of such confusion , at the same time , that we reel again . 
There is something in the fire and roar , that generates an irresistible desire to get nearer to it . 
But , we contrive to climb up to the brim , and look down , for a moment , into the Hell of boiling fire below . 
Then , we all three come rolling down blackened , and singed , and scorched , and hot , and giddy and each with his dress alight in half a dozen places . 
no vestige of ashes to be seen the whole being a smooth sheet of ice . 
The boy is brought into the Hermitage on the Mountain , while we are at supper , with his head tied up and the man is heard of , some hours afterwards . 
He too is bruised and stunned , but has broken no bones the snow having , fortunately , covered all the larger blocks of rock and stone , and rendered them harmless . 
There is one extraordinary feature in the real life of Naples , at which we may take a glance before we go the Lotteries . 
They prevail in most parts of Italy , but are particularly obvious , in their effects and influences , here . 
They are drawn every Saturday . 
The lowest stake is one grain less than a farthing . 
One hundred numbers from one to a hundred , inclusive are put into a box . 
If one of them come up , I win a small prize . 
If two , some hundreds of times my stake . 
If three , three thousand five hundred times my stake . 
what I can upon my numbers , and buy what numbers I please . 
The amount I play , I pay at the lottery office , where I purchase the ticket and it is stated on the ticket itself . 
Every lottery office keeps a printed book , an Universal Lottery Diviner , where every possible accident and circumstance is provided for , and has a number against it . 
For instance , let us take two carlini about sevenpence . 
On our way to the lottery office , we run against a black man . 
When we get there , we say gravely , 'The Diviner . 
It is handed over the counter , as a serious matter of business . 
We look at black man . 
We look at running against a person in the street . 
We look at the name of the street itself . 
Now , we have our three numbers . 
Every accident or event , is supposed , by the ignorant populace , to be a revelation to the beholder , or party concerned , in connection with the lottery . 
Certain people who have a talent for dreaming fortunately , are much sought after and there are some priests who are constantly favoured with visions of the lucky numbers . 
I heard of a horse running away with a man , and dashing him down , dead , at the corner of a street . 
Pursuing the horse with incredible speed , was another man , who ran so fast , that he came up , immediately after the accident . 
He threw himself upon his knees beside the unfortunate rider , and clasped his hand with an expression of the wildest grief . 
It is four o'clock in the afternoon , and we may go to see our lottery drawn . 
At the upper end is a platform , with a large horse shoe table upon it and a President and Council sitting round all judges of the Law . 
A ragged , swarthy fellow he is with long matted hair hanging down all over his face and covered , from head to foot , with most unquestionably genuine dirt . 
When the box is full , the boy who is to draw the numbers out of it becomes the prominent feature of the proceedings . 
sleeve to it , which leaves his right arm bared to the shoulder , ready for plunging down into the mysterious chest . 
During the hush and whisper that pervade the room , all eyes are turned on this young minister of fortune . 
Here is the last judge come at last , and now he takes his place at the horse shoe table . 
There is a murmur of irrepressible agitation . 
In the midst of it , the priest puts his head into the sacred vestments , and pulls the same over his shoulders . 
and pulls out a number , which is rolled up , round something hard , like a bonbon . 
This he hands to the judge next him , who unrolls a little bit , and hands it to the President , next to whom he sits . 
The President unrolls it , very slowly . 
The Capo Lazzarone leans over his shoulder . 
The President holds it up , unrolled , to the Capo Lazzarone . 
, expressing the two upon his fingers , as he calls it out . 
Alas ! the Capo Lazzarone himself has not staked on sixty two . 
His face is very long , and his eyes roll wildly . 
As it happens to be a favourite number , however , it is pretty well received , which is not always the case . 
They are all drawn with the same ceremony , omitting the blessing . 
One blessing is enough for the whole multiplication table . 
I hope the Capo Lazzarone may not desert him for some other member of the Calendar , but he seems to threaten it . 
Where the winners may be , nobody knows . 
They certainly are not present the general disappointment filling one with pity for the poor people . 
What a dull headed monk the porter becomes in comparison ! 'He speaks like us ! says the porter 'quite as plainly . 
Quite as plainly , Porter . 
Nothing could be more expressive than his reception of the peasants who are entering the gate with baskets and burdens . 
There is a roll in his eye , and a chuckle in his throat , which should qualify him to be chosen Superior of an Order of Ravens . 
He knows all about it . 
'It's all right , he says . 
'We know what we know . 
Come along , good people . 
are densely ignorant , and all beg , while the monks are chaunting in the chapel . 
'Caw ! says the raven , 'Cuckoo ! So we leave him , chuckling and rolling his eye at the convent gate , and wind slowly down again through the cloud . 
The women wear a bright red bodice laced before and behind , a white skirt , and the Neapolitan head dress of square folds of linen , primitively meant to carry loads on . 
The men and children wear anything they can get . 
The soldiers are as dirty and rapacious as the dogs . 
The inns are such hobgoblin places , that they are infinitely more attractive and amusing than the best hotels in Paris . 
, which is approached by a quagmire almost knee deep . 
The beds in the adjoining rooms are of the liveliest kind . 
There is not a solitary scrap of looking glass in the house , and the washing apparatus is identical with the cooking utensils . 
She is as good humoured , too , as dirty , which is saying a great deal . 
So here's long life to her , in the flask of wine , and prosperity to the establishment . 
They set off its sombre but rich Gothic buildings admirably . 
The pavement of its market place is strewn with country goods . 
All along the steep hill leading from the town , under the town wall , there is a noisy fair of calves , lambs , pigs , horses , mules , and oxen . 
Suddenly , there is a ringing sound among our horses . 
with which it is announced , it is not long in being repaired by a mortal Farrier , by whose assistance we reach Castiglione the same night , and Arezzo next day . 
In its court yard worthy of the Castle of Otranto in its ponderous gloom is a massive staircase that the heaviest waggon and the stoutest team of horses might be driven up . 
'They are merry enough , Signore , says the jailer . 
'They are all blood stained here , he adds , indicating , with his hand , three fourths of the whole building . 
Among the four old bridges that span the river , the Ponte Vecchio that bridge which is covered with the shops of Jewellers and Goldsmiths is a most enchanting feature in the scene . 
Above it , the Gallery of the Grand Duke crosses the river . 
If an accident take place , their office is , to raise the sufferer , and bear him tenderly to the Hospital . 
If a fire break out , it is one of their functions to repair to the spot , and render their assistance and protection . 
he was used to bring his stool , and sit in contemplation . 
