Legends sidenotes Sidenotes Bible reference Bible references . 
Sections are numbered for future reference . 
These sections have been chosen arbitrarily , i . 
This is Part , but is a complete work in itself . 
some years after the first part , hence the Parts' . 
This done , I twenty more had in my crown And they again began to multiply , Like sparks that from the coals of fire do fly . 
Neither did I but vacant seasons spend In this my scribble nor did I intend But to divert myself in doing this From worser thoughts which make me do amiss . 
Thus , I set pen to paper with delight , And quickly had my thoughts in black and white . 
I further thought , if now I did deny Those that would have it , thus to gratify . 
I did not know but hinder them I might Of that which would to them be great delight . 
If that thou wilt not read , let it alone Some love the meat , some love to pick the bone . 
Yea , he must pipe and whistle to catch this , Yet , if he does so , that bird he will miss . 
Is not without those things that do excel What do in brave but empty notions dwell . 
Well , yet I am not fully satisfied , That this your book will stand , when soundly tried . 
Why , what's the matter ? It is dark . 
What though ? But it is feigned . 
What of that ? I trow ? Some men , by feigned words , as dark as mine , Make truth to spangle and its rays to shine . 
Speak , man , thy mind . 
They drown the weak metaphors make us blind . 
My dark and cloudy words , they do but hold The truth , as cabinets enclose the gold . 
Let me add one word more . 
Thus to express my mind , thus to declare Things unto thee that excellentest are . 
This book is writ in such a dialect As may the minds of listless men affect It seems a novelty , and yet contains Nothing but sound and honest gospel strains . 
some way of escape can be found , whereby we may be delivered . 
But the night was as troublesome to him as the day wherefore , instead of sleeping , he spent it in sighs and tears . 
So , when the morning was come , they would know how he did . 
He told them , Worse and worse he also set to talking to them again but they began to be hardened . 
and I find that I am not willing to do the first Job , nor able to do the second . 
CHRISTIAN no sooner leaves the World but meets EVANGELIST , who lovingly him greets With tidings of another and doth show Him how to mount to that from this below . 
Conviction of the necessity of flying Then said Evangelist , If this be thy condition , why standest thou still ? He answered , Because I know not whither to go . 
Then he gave him a parchment roll , and there was written within , Flee from the wrath to come . 
, Christ , and the way to Him cannot be found without the Word The man said , No. Then said the other , Do you see yonder shining light ? Ps . 
He said , I think I do . 
So I saw in my dream that the man began to run . 
They that fly from the wrath to come , are a gazing stock of the world The neighbours also came out to see him run Jer . 
Obstinate and Pliable follow him The name of the one was Obstinate and the name of the other Pliable . 
Then said the man , Neighbours , wherefore are ye come ? They said , To persuade you to go back with us . 
What ! said Obstinate , and leave our friends and our comforts behind us ? CHR . 
and , if you will go along with me , and hold it , you shall fare as I myself for there , where I go , is enough and to spare . 
Luke Come away , and prove my words . 
What are the things you seek , since you leave all the world to find them ? CHR . 
I seek an inheritance incorruptible , undefiled , and that fadeth not away Pet . 
, and it is laid up in heaven , and safe there Heb . 
, to be bestowed , at the time appointed , on them that diligently seek it . 
Read it so , if you will , in my book . 
Tush ! said Obstinate , away with your book will you go back with us or no ? CHR . 
No , not I , said the other , because I have laid my hand to the plough . 
Then said Pliable , Don't revile if what the good Christian says is true , the things he looks after are better than ours my heart inclines to go with my neighbour . 
Christian and Obstinate pull for Pliable's soul CHR . 
Nay , but do thou come with thy neighbour , Pliable there are such things to be had which I spoke of , and many more glorious besides . 
I am directed by a man , whose name is Evangelist , to speed me to a little gate that is before us , where we shall receive instructions about the way . 
Come , then , good neighbour , let us be going . 
Then they went both together . 
And I will go back to my place , said Obstinate Obstinate goes railing back I will be no companion of such misled , fantastical fellows . 
Now , I saw in my dream , that when Obstinate was gone back , Christian and Pliable went talking over the plain and thus they began their discourse . 
Talk between Christian and Pliable CHR . 
Come , neighbour Pliable , how do you do ? I am glad you are persuaded to go along with me . 
Had even Obstinate himself but felt what I have felt of the powers and terrors of what is yet unseen , he would not thus lightly have given us the back . 
Come , neighbour Christian , since there are none but us two here , tell me now further what the things are , and how to be enjoyed , whither we are going . 
And do you think that the words of your book are certainly true ? CHR . 
Yes , verily for it was made by Him that cannot lie . 
Well said what things are they ? CHR . 
There is an endless kingdom to be inhabited , and everlasting life to be given us , that we may inhabit that kingdom for ever . 
Well said and what else ? CHR . 
There are crowns and glory to be given us , and garments that will make us shine like the sun in the firmament of heaven . 
This is very pleasant and what else ? CHR . 
There shall be no more crying , nor Sorrow for He that is owner of the place will wipe all tears from our eyes . 
And what company shall we have there ? CHR . 
There we shall be with seraphims and cherubims , creatures that will dazzle your eyes to look on them . 
In a word , there we shall see the elders with their golden crowns Rev . 
, there we shall see the holy virgins with their golden harps Rev . 
The hearing of this is enough to ravish one's heart . 
But are these things to be enjoyed ? How shall we get to be sharers thereof ? CHR . 
Well , my good companion , glad am I to hear of these things come on , let us mend our pace . 
I cannot go so fast as I would , by reason of this burden that is on my back . 
The name of the slough was Despond . 
Then said Pliable Ah ! neighbour Christian , where are you now ? CHR . 
Truly , said Christian , I do not know . 
But why did not you look for the steps ? CHR . 
Fear followed me so hard , that I fled the next way , and fell in . 
Help lifts him up HELP . 
And this is the reason of the badness of this ground . 
It is not the pleasure of the King that this place should remain so bad . 
So Pliable sat sneaking among them . 
But at last he got more confidence , and then they all turned their tales , and began to deride poor Christian behind his back . 
And thus much concerning Pliable . 
The gentleman's name that met him was Mr. Worldly Wiseman , he dwelt in the town of Carnal Policy , a very great town , and also hard by from whence Christian came . 
Talk betwixt Mr. Worldly Wiseman and Christian WORLD . 
How now , good fellow , whither away after this burdened manner ? CHR . 
Hast thou a wife and children ? CHR . 
Yes but I am so laden with this burden that I cannot take that pleasure in them as formerly methinks I am as if I had none . 
Wilt thou hearken unto me if I give thee counsel ? CHR . 
If it be good , I will for I stand in need of good counsel . 
Mr. Worldly Wiseman's counsel to Christian WORLD . 
Who bid thee go this way to be rid of thy burden ? CHR . 
A man that appeared to me to be a very great and honourable person his name , as I remember , is Evangelist . 
Mr. Worldly Wiseman condemned Evangelist's counsel WORLD . 
And why should a man so carelessly cast away himself , by giving heed to a stranger ? The frame of the heart of a young Christian CHR . 
Worldly Wiseman does not like that men should be serious in reading the Bible WORLD . 
How camest thou by the burden at first ? CHR . 
By reading this book in my hand . 
I know what I would obtain it is ease for my heavy burden . 
Whether Mr. Worldly Wiseman prefers morality before the strait gate WORLD . 
Besides , I will add , that instead of those dangers , thou shalt meet with much safety , friendship , and content . 
Pray , Sir , open this secret to me . 
To him , as I said , thou mayest go , and be helped presently . 
Sir , which is my way to this honest man's house ? Mount Sinai WORLD . 
Do you see yonder hill ? CHR . 
By that hill you must go , and the first house you come at is his . 
Also his burden now seemed heavier to him than while he was in his way . 
There came also flashes of fire out of the hill , that made Christian afraid that he should be burned . 
, Here , therefore , he sweat and did quake for fear . 
Evangelist findeth Christian under Mount Sinai , and looketh severely upon him And now he began to be sorry that he had taken Mr. Worldly Wiseman's counsel . 
And with that he saw Evangelist coming to meet him at the sight also of whom he began to blush for shame . 
So Evangelist drew nearer and nearer and coming up to him , he looked upon him with a severe and dreadful countenance , and thus began to reason with Christian . 
Evangelist reasons afresh with Christian EVAN . 
What dost thou here , Christian ? said he at which words Christian knew not what to answer wherefore at present he stood speechless before him . 
Then said Evangelist further , Art not thou the man that I found crying without the walls of the City of Destruction ? CHR . 
Yes , dear Sir , I am the man . 
Did not I direct thee the way to the little wicket gate ? CHR . 
Yes , dear Sir , said Christian . 
How is it , then , that thou art so quickly turned aside ? for thou art now out of the way . 
What was he ? CHR . 
What said that gentleman to you ? CHR . 
Why , he asked me whither I was going , and I told him . 
And what said he then ? CHR . 
He asked me if I had a family ? And I told him . 
But , said I , I am so loaden with the burden that is on my back , that I cannot take pleasure in them as formerly . 
And what said he then ? CHR . 
He bid me with speed get rid of my burden and I told him that it was ease that I sought . 
And said I , I am therefore going to yonder gate , to receive further direction how I may get to the place of deliverance . 
of danger but I now know not what to do . 
Evangelist convinces Christian of his error EVAN . 
Then , said Evangelist , stand still a little , that I may show thee the words of God . 
Then said Evangelist , See that ye refuse not him that speaketh . 
For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth , much more shall not we escape , if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven . 
He said , moreover , Now the just shall live by faith but if any man draw back , my soul shall have no pleasure in him . 
, Mark Be not faithless , but believing . 
John Then did Christian again a little revive , and stood up trembling , as at first , before Evangelist . 
Mr. Worldly Wiseman described by Evangelist Then Evangelist proceeded , saying , Give more earnest heed to the things that I shall tell thee of . 
I will now show thee who it was that deluded thee , and who it was also to whom he sent thee . 
and partly because he loveth that doctrine best , for it saveth him best from the cross . 
Gal And because he is of this carnal temper , therefore he seeketh to pervert my ways , though right . 
Now there are three things in this man's counsel , that thou must utterly abhor . 
Evangelist discovers the deceit of Mr. Worldly Wiseman . 
His turning thee out of the way . 
His labouring to render the cross odious to thee . 
His setting thy feet in that way that leadeth unto the administration of death . 
Secondly , Thou must abhor his labouring to render the cross odious unto thee for thou art to prefer it before the treasures in Egypt . 
, Besides the King of glory hath told thee , that he that will save his life shall lose it . 
Thirdly , Thou must hate his setting of thy feet in the way that leadeth to the ministration of death . 
And for this thou must consider to whom he sent thee , and also how unable that person was to deliver thee from thy burden . 
This done , he applied himself again to Evangelist in words and sense as follow Christian inquires if he may yet be happy CHR . 
But may my sin be forgiven ? Evangelist comforts him EVAN . 
Then did Christian address himself to go back and Evangelist , after he had kissed him , gave him one smile , and bid him God speed . 
So he went on with haste , neither spake he to any man by the way nor , if any asked him , would he vouchsafe them an answer . 
So , in process of time , Christian got up to the gate . 
Now , over the gate there was written , Knock , and it shall be opened unto you . 
At last there came a grave person to the gate , named Good will , who asked who was there ? and whence he came ? and what he would have ? CHR . 
Here is a poor burdened sinner . 
I come from the City of Destruction , but am going to Mount Zion , that I may be delivered from the wrath to come . 
I am willing with all my heart , said he and with that he opened the gate . 
So when Christian was stepping in , the other gave him a pull . 
Then said Christian , What means that ? The other told him . 
Christian entered the gate with joy and trembling Then said Christian , I rejoice and tremble . 
So when he was got in , the man of the gate asked him who directed him thither ? Talk between Good will and Christian CHR . 
and he said that you , Sir , would tell me what I must do . 
An open door is set before thee , and no man can shut it . 
Now I begin to reap the benefits of my hazards . 
But how is it that you came alone ? CHR . 
Because none of my neighbours saw their danger , as I saw mine . 
Did any of them know of your coming ? CHR . 
But did none of them follow you , to persuade you to go back ? CHR . 
Yes , both Obstinate and Pliable but when they saw that they could not prevail , Obstinate went railing back , but Pliable came with me a little way . 
But why did he not come through ? A man may have company when he sets out for heaven , and yet go thither alone CHR . 
We , indeed , came both together , until we came at the Slough of Despond , into the which we also suddenly fell . 
And then was my neighbour , Pliable , discouraged , and would not venture further . 
Oh , did he light upon you ? What ! he would have had you a sought for ease at the hands of Mr. Legality . 
They are , both of them , a very cheat . 
But did you take his counsel ? CHR . 
That mountain has been the death of many , and will be the death of many more it is well you escaped being by it dashed in pieces . 
We make no objections against any , notwithstanding all that they have done before they came hither . 
They are in no wise cast out John vi . 
and therefore , good Christian , come a little way with me , and I will teach thee about the way thou must go . 
This is the way thou must go . 
Christian afraid of losing his way CHR . 
But , said Christian , are there no turnings or windings by which a stranger may lose his way ? GOOD WILL . 
Yes , there are many ways butt down upon this , and they are crooked and wide . 
But thus thou mayest distinguish the right from the wrong , the right only being straight and narrow . 
Then Christian began to gird up his loins , and to address himself to his journey . 
Then Christian took his leave of his friend , and he again bid him God speed . 
So he called for the master of the house , who , after a little time , came to Christian , and asked him what he would have . 
Then said the Interpreter , Come in I will show that which will be profitable to thee . 
It stood as if it pleaded with men , and a crown of gold did hang over his head . 
Then said Christian , What meaneth this ? The meaning of the picture INTER . 
The man whose picture this is , is one of a thousand he can beget children Cor . 
, travail in birth with children Gal . 
, and nurse them himself when they are born . 
Now , when he began to sweep , the dust began so abundantly to fly about , that Christian had almost therewith been choked . 
Then said Christian , What means this ? INTER . 
He that began to sweep at first , is the Law but she that brought water , and did sprinkle it , is the Gospel . 
He showed him passion and patience The name of the eldest was Passion , and the name of the other Patience . 
Passion seemed to be much discontented but Patience was very quiet . 
Then Christian asked , What is the reason of the discontent of Passion ? Passion will have all now . 
And quickly lavishes all away But I beheld but a while , and he had lavished all away , and had nothing left him but rags . 
Then said Christian to the Interpreter , Expound this matter more fully to me . 
Patience has the best wisdom CHR . 
Then said Christian , Now I see that Patience has the best wisdom , and that upon many accounts . 
First , because he stays for the best things . 
Second , and also because he will have the glory of his , when the other has nothing but rags . 
Things that are first must give place but things that are last are lasting INTER . 
Nay , you may add another , to wit , the glory of the next world will never wear out but these are suddenly gone . 
Then I perceive it is not best to covet things that are now , but to wait for things to come . 
The first things are but temporal INTER . 
You say the truth For the things which are seen are temporal but the things which are not seen are eternal . 
He saw also , upon the top thereof , certain persons walking , who were clothed all in gold . 
Now was Christian somewhat in amaze . 
So after he had received and given many wounds to those that attempted to keep him out , he cut his way through them all Acts . 
So he went in , and was clothed with such garments as they . 
Then Christian smiled and said I think verily I know the meaning of this . 
Despair like an iron cage Now , said Christian , let me go hence . 
Nay , stay , said the Interpreter , till I have shewed thee a little more , and after that thou shalt go on thy way . 
So he took him by the hand again , and led him into a very dark room , where there sat a man in an iron cage . 
Then said Christian , What means this ? At which the Interpreter bid him talk with the man . 
Then said Christian to the man , What art thou ? The man answered , I am what I was not once . 
What wast thou once ? MAN . 
Well , but what art thou now ? MAN . 
I am now a man of despair , and am shut up in it , as in this iron cage . 
Oh , now I cannot ! CHR . 
But how camest thou in this condition ? MAN . 
I left off to watch and be sober . 
Then said Christian to the Interpreter , But is there no hope for such a man as this ? Ask him , said the Interpreter . 
Nay , said Christian , pray , Sir , do you . 
Then said the Interpreter , Is there no hope , but you must be kept in the iron cage of despair ? MAN . 
No , none at all . 
Why , the Son of the Blessed is very pitiful . 
I have crucified him to myself afresh Heb . 
I have despised his person Luke I have despised his righteousness I have counted his blood an unholy thing I have done despite to the Spirit of grace . 
For what did you bring yourself into this condition ? MAN . 
But canst thou not now repent and turn ? MAN . 
God hath denied me repentance . 
His Word gives me no encouragement to believe yea , himself hath shut me up in this iron cage nor can all the men in the world let me out . 
O eternity , eternity ! how shall I grapple with the misery that I must meet with in eternity ! INTER . 
Then said the Interpreter to Christian , Let this man's misery be remembered by thee , and be an everlasting caution to thee . 
Tarry till I shall show thee one thing more , and then thou shalt go on thy way . 
Then said Christian , Why doth this man thus tremble ? The Interpreter then bid him tell to Christian the reason of his so doing . 
Some of them were exceeding glad , and looked upward and some sought to hide themselves under the mountains . 
Then I saw the man that sat upon the cloud open the book , and bid the world draw near . 
It was also said to the same persons , Gather my wheat into the garner . 
Luke And with that I saw many catched up and carried away into the clouds , but I was left behind . 
, Upon this I awaked from my sleep . 
But what is it that made you so afraid of this sight ? MAN . 
My conscience , too , afflicted me and , as I thought , the Judge had always his eye upon me , shewing indignation in his countenance . 
Then said the Interpreter to Christian , Hast thou considered all these things ? CHR . 
Yes , and they put me in hope and fear . 
Well , keep all things so in thy mind that they may be as a goad in thy sides , to prick thee forward in the way thou must go . 
Then Christian began to gird up his loins , and to address himself to his journey . 
Then said the Interpreter , The Comforter be always with thee , good Christian , to guide thee in the way that leads to the City . 
Now I saw in my dream , that the highway up which Christian was to go , was fenced on either side with a wall , and that wall was called Salvation . 
Up this way , therefore , did burdened Christian run , but not without great difficulty , because of the load on his back . 
He ran thus till he came at a place somewhat ascending , and upon that place stood a cross , and a little below , in the bottom , a sepulchre . 
Then he stood still awhile to look and wonder for it was very surprising to him , that the sight of the cross should thus ease him of his burden . 
He looked therefore , and looked again , even till the springs that were in his head sent the waters down his cheeks . 
Now , as he stood looking and weeping , behold three Shining Ones came to him and saluted him with Peace be unto thee . 
So the first said to him , Thy sins be forgiven thee Mark the second stripped him of his rags , and clothed him with change of raiment Zech . 
So they went their way . 
Who's this ? the Pilgrim . 
How ! 'tis very true , Old things are past away , all's become new . 
Strange ! he's another man , upon my word , They be fine feathers that make a fine bird . 
The name of the one was Simple , another Sloth , and the third Presumption . 
Awake , therefore , and come away be willing also , and I will help you off with your irons . 
He also told them , If he that goeth about like a roaring lion comes by , you will certainly become a prey to his teeth . 
And as he was troubled thereabout , he espied two men come tumbling over the wall on the left hand of the narrow way and they made up apace to him . 
The name of the one was Formalist , and the name of the other Hypocrisy . 
So , as I said , they drew up unto him , who thus entered with them into discourse . 
Christian talked with them CHR . 
Gentlemen , whence came you , and whither go you ? FORM . 
We were born in the land of Vain glory , and are going for praise to Mount Zion . 
But , said Christian , will your practice stand a trial at law ? FORM . 
I walk by the rule of my Master you walk by the rude working of your fancies . 
You are counted thieves already , by the Lord of the way therefore , I doubt you will not be found true men at the end of the way . 
You come in by yourselves , without his direction and shall go out by yourselves , without his mercy . 
To this they made him but little answer only they bid him look to himself . 
Christian has got his Lord's coat on his back , and is comforted therewith he is comforted , also , with his mark and his roll CHR . 
By laws and ordinances you will not be saved , since you came not in by the door . 
And I take it as a token of his kindness to me for I had nothing but rags before . 
Christian has talk with himself To these things they gave him no answer only they looked upon each other , and laughed . 
Christian now went to the spring , and drank thereof , to refresh himself Isa . 
Come , pluck up heart , let's neither faint nor fear Better , though difficult , the right way to go , Than wrong , though easy , where the end is woe . 
Now the name of one of these ways was Danger , and the name of the other Destruction . 
And with that Christian started up , and sped him on his way , and went apace , till he came to the top of the hill . 
Christian shakes off fear CHR . 
If I can get to the Celestial City , I am sure to be in safety there . 
To go back is nothing but death to go forward is fear of death , and life everlasting beyond it . 
I will yet go forward . 
So Mistrust and Timorous ran down the hill , and Christian went on his way . 
He is perplexed for his roll Here , therefore , he begun to be much perplexed , and knew not what to do . 
But who can tell how joyful this man was when he had gotten his roll again ! for this roll was the assurance of his life and acceptance at the desired haven . 
, Now also he remembered the story that Mistrust and Timorous told him of how they were frighted with the sight of the lions . 
So I saw in my dream that he made haste and went forward , that if possible he might get lodging there . 
Now , thought he , I see the dangers that Mistrust and Timorous were driven back by . 
Then he was afraid , and thought also himself to go back after them , for he thought nothing but death was before him . 
Keep in the midst of the path , no hurt shall come unto thee . 
Then he clapped his hands , and went on till he came and stood before the gate where the porter was . 
The porter also asked whence he was , and whither he was going . 
What is your name ? CHR . 
My name is now Christian , but my name at the first was Graceless I came of the race of Japheth , whom God will persuade to dwell in the tents of Shem . 
But how doth it happen that you come so late ? The sun is set . 
Then she asked him whence he was , and whither he was going , and he told her . 
She asked him also how he got into the way and he told her . 
Then she asked him what he had seen and met with in the way and he told , her . 
So she smiled , but the water stood in her eyes and after a little pause , she said , I will call forth two or three more of the family . 
Then he bowed his head , and followed them into the house . 
With a very good will , and I am glad that you are so well disposed . 
What moved you at first to betake yourself to a pilgrim's life ? How Christian was driven out of his own country CHR . 
But how did it happen that you came out of your country this way ? How he got into the way to Zion CHR . 
But did you not come by the house of the Interpreter ? A rehearsal of what he saw in the way CHR . 
Why , did you hear him tell his dream ? CHR . 
Yes , and a dreadful one it was . 
I thought it made my heart ache as he was telling of it but yet I am glad I heard it . 
Was that all that you saw at the house of the Interpreter ? CHR . 
Methought those things did ravish my heart ! I would have stayed at that good man's house a twelvemonth , but that I knew I had further to go . 
And what saw you else in the way ? CHR . 
but then it fell down from off me . 
But you saw more than this , did you not ? CHR . 
Then Prudence thought good to ask him a few questions , and desired his answer to them . 
Do you not think sometimes of the country from whence you came ? Christian's thoughts of his native country CHR . 
Do you not yet bear away with you some of the things that then you were conversant withal ? Christian distasted with carnal cogitations CHR . 
Do you not find sometimes , as if those things were vanquished , which at other times are your perplexity ? Christian's golden hours CHR . 
Yes , but that is seldom but they are to me golden hours in which such things happen to me . 
Can you remember by what means you find your annoyances , at times , as if they were vanquished ? How Christian gets power against his corruptions CHR . 
And what is it that makes you so desirous to go to Mount Zion ? Why Christian would be at Mount Zion CHR . 
For , to tell you truth , I love him , because I was by him eased of my burden and I am weary of my inward sickness . 
I have a wife and four small children . 
And why did you not bring them along with you ? Christian's love to his wife and children CHR . 
Then Christian wept , and said , Oh , how willingly would I have done it ! but they were all of them utterly averse to my going on pilgrimage . 
But you should have talked to them , and have endeavoured to have shown them the danger of being behind . 
And did you pray to God that he would bless your counsel to them ? CHR . 
Yes , and that with much affection for you must think that my wife and poor children were very dear unto me . 
But did you tell them of your own sorrow , and fear of destruction ? for I suppose that destruction was visible enough to you . 
Christian's fears of perishing might be read in his very countenance CHR . 
Yes , over , and over , and over . 
But what could they say for themselves , why they came not ? The cause why his wife and children did not go with him CHR . 
Yet this I can say , I was very wary of giving them occasion , by any unseemly action , to make them averse to going on pilgrimage . 
Yea , for this very thing they would tell me I was too precise , and that I denied myself of things , for their sakes , in which they saw no evil . 
Christian clear of their blood if they perish CHAR . 
What Christian had to his supper Now I saw in my dream , that thus they sat talking together until supper was ready . 
So when they had made ready , they sat down to meat . 
They said , moreover , that he had made many pilgrims princes , though by nature they were beggars born , and their original had been the dunghill . 
And there was here enough of this to harness out as many men for the service of their Lord as there be stars in the heaven for multitude . 
Christian is made to see ancient things They also showed him some of the engines with which some of his servants had done wonderful things . 
They shewed him Moses' rod the hammer and nail with which Jael slew Sisera the pitchers , trumpets , and lamps too , with which Gideon put to flight the armies of Midian . 
Then they showed him the ox's goad wherewith Shamgar slew six hundred men . 
They showed him also the jaw bone with which Samson did such mighty feats . 
They showed him , besides , many excellent things , with which Christian was much delighted . 
This done , they went to their rest again . 
, Then he asked the name of the country . 
They said it was Immanuel's Land and it is as common , said they , as this hill is , to and for all the pilgrims . 
And when thou comest there from thence , said they , thou mayest see to the gate of the Celestial City , as the shepherds that live there will make appear . 
Christian sets forward Now he bethought himself of setting forward , and they were willing he should . 
But first , said they , let us go again into the armoury . 
He being , therefore , thus accoutred , walketh out with his friends to the gate , and there he asked the porter if he saw any pilgrims pass by . 
Then the porter answered , Yes . 
Pray , did you know him ? said he . 
I asked him his name , and he told me it was Faithful . 
Oh , said Christian , I know him he is my townsman , my near neighbour he comes from the place where I was born . 
How far do you think he may be before ? POR . 
He is got by this time below the hill . 
How Christian and the Porter greet at parting CHR . 
Well , said Christian , good Porter , the Lord be with thee , and add to all thy blessings much increase , for the kindness that thou hast showed to me . 
The Valley of Humiliation Then he began to go forward but Discretion , Piety , Charity , and Prudence would accompany him down to the foot of the hill . 
So they went on together , reiterating their former discourses , till they came to go down the hill . 
Then said Christian , As it was difficult coming up , so , so far as I can see , it is dangerous going down . 
So he began to go down , but very warily yet he caught a slip or two . 
Then did Christian begin to be afraid , and to cast in his mind whether to go back or to stand his ground . 
So he went on , and Apollyon met him . 
he had wings like a dragon , feet like a bear , and out of his belly came fire and smoke , and his mouth was as the mouth of a lion . 
When he was come up to Christian , he beheld him with a disdainful countenance , and thus began to question with him . 
Whence come you ? and whither are you bound ? CHR . 
I am come from the City of Destruction , which is the place of all evil , and am going to the City of Zion . 
Discourse betwixt Christian and Apollyon APOL . 
By this I perceive thou art one of my subjects , for all that country is mine , and I am the prince and god of it . 
But I have let myself to another , even to the King of princes and how can I , with fairness , go back with thee ? Apollyon undervalues Christ's service APOL . 
Do thou so too , and all shall be well . 
Thou didst the same to me , and yet I am willing to pass by all , if now thou wilt yet turn again and go back . 
Apollyon pleads the grievous ends of Christians , to dissuade Christian from persisting in his way APOL . 
Consider , again , when thou art in cool blood , what thou art like to meet with in the way that thou goest . 
Thou knowest that , for the most part , his servants come to an ill end , because they are transgressors against me and my ways . 
Thou hast already been unfaithful in thy service to him and how dost thou think to receive wages of him ? CHR . 
Wherein , O Apollyon ! have I been unfaithful to him ? Apollyon pleads Christian's infirmities against him APOL . 
Apollyon in a rage falls upon Christian APOL . 
Apollyon , beware what you do for I am in the King's highway , the way of holiness therefore take heed to yourself . 
And with that he threw a flaming dart at his breast but Christian had a shield in his hand , with which he caught it , and so prevented the danger of that . 
This made Christian give a little back Apollyon , therefore , followed his work amain , and Christian again took courage , and resisted as manfully as he could . 
Then said Apollyon , I am sure of thee now . 
Christian perceiving that , made at him again , saying , Nay , in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us . 
And with that Apollyon spread forth his dragon's wings , and sped him away , that Christian for a season saw him no more . 
But blessed Michael helped me , and I , By dint of sword , did quickly make him fly . 
Therefore to him let me give lasting praise , And thank and bless his holy name always . 
But he met with no other affront from Apollyon quite through this valley . 
Now , this valley is a very solitary place . 
Now here Christian was worse put to it than in his fight with Apollyon , as by the sequel you shall see . 
, making haste to go back to whom Christian spake as follows CHR . 
Whither are you going ? MEN . 
They said , Back ! back ! and we would have you to do so too , if either life or peace is prized by you . 
Why , what's the matter ? said Christian . 
But what have you met with ? said Christian . 
But what have you seen ? said Christian . 
Death also doth always spread his wings over it . 
In a word , it is every whit dreadful , being utterly without order . 
Then , said Christian , I perceive not yet , by what you have said , but that this is my way to the desired haven . 
Be it thy way we will not choose it for ours . 
So , they parted , and Christian went on his way , but still with his sword drawn in his hand , for fear lest he should be assaulted . 
Into that quag King David once did fall , and had no doubt therein been smothered , had not HE that is able plucked him out . 
Poor man ! where art thou now ? thy day is night . 
About the midst of this valley , I perceived the mouth of hell to be , and it stood also hard by the wayside . 
, that he was forced to put up his sword , and betake himself to another weapon called All prayer . 
So he cried in my hearing , O Lord , I beseech thee , deliver my soul ! Ps . 
Thus he went on a great while , yet still the flames would be reaching towards him . 
Also he heard doleful voices , and rushings to and fro , so that sometimes he thought he should be torn in pieces , or trodden down like mire in the streets . 
Christian made believe that he spake blasphemies , when it was Satan that suggested them into his mind One thing I would not let slip . 
I took notice that now poor Christian was so confounded , that he did not know his own voice and thus I perceived it . 
Then he was glad , and that for these reasons First , Because he gathered from thence , that some who feared God were in this valley as well as himself . 
Job Thirdly , For that he hoped , could he overtake them , to have company by and by . 
So he went on , and called to him that was before but he knew not what to answer for that he also thought to be alone . 
And by and by the day broke then said Christian , He hath turned the shadow of death into the morning . 
yet they were discovered to him , according to that which is written , He discovereth deep things out of darkness , and bringeth out to light the shadow of death . 
Then said he , His candle shineth upon my head , and by his light I walk through darkness . 
Job In this light , therefore , he came to the end of the valley . 
, lay there , were cruelly put to death . 
But he held his peace , and set a good face on it , and so went by and catched no hurt . 
Now , as Christian went on his way , he came to a little ascent , which was cast up on purpose that pilgrims might see before them . 
Up there , therefore , Christian went , and looking forward , he saw Faithful before him , upon his journey . 
How long did you stay in the City of Destruction before you set out after me on your pilgrimage ? Their talk about the country from whence they came FAITH . 
What ! did your neighbours talk so ? FAITH . 
Yes , it was for a while in everybody's mouth . 
What ! and did no more of them but you come out to escape the danger ? FAITH . 
Though there was , as I said , a great talk thereabout , yet I do not think they did firmly believe it . 
, but I did believe , and do still , that the end of our city will be with fire and and brimstone from above and therefore I have made my escape . 
Did you hear no talk of neighbour Pliable ? FAITH . 
And what said the neighbours to him ? How Pliable was accounted of , when he got home FAITH . 
He is now seven times worse than if he had never gone out of the city . 
But why should they be so set against him , since they also despise the way that he forsook ? FAITH . 
Oh , they say , hang him , he is a turncoat ! he was not true to his profession . 
I think God has stirred up even his enemies to hiss at him , and make him a proverb , because he hath forsaken the way . 
Had you no talk with him before you came out ? FAITH . 
I met him once in the streets , but he leered away on the other side , as one ashamed of what he had done so I spake not to him . 
These are my fears of him too but who can hinder that which will be ? CHR . 
Well , neighbour Faithful , said Christian , let us leave him , and talk of things that more immediately concern ourselves . 
Faithful assaulted by Wanton FAITH . 
It was well you escaped her net Joseph was hard put to it by her , and he escaped her as you did but it had like to have cost him his life . 
But what did she do to you ? FAITH . 
You cannot think , but that you know something , what a flattering tongue she had she lay at me hard to turn aside with her , promising me all manner of content . 
Nay , she did not promise you the content of a good conscience . 
You know what I mean all carnal and fleshly content . 
Thank God you have escaped her The abhorred of the Lord shall fall into her ditch . 
Nay , I know not whether I did wholly escape her or no . 
Why , I trow , you did not consent to her desires ? FAITH . 
No , not to defile myself for I remembered an old writing that I had seen , which said , Her steps take hold on hell . 
So I shut mine eyes , because I would not be bewitched with her looks . 
Job Then she railed on me , and I went my way . 
Did you meet with no other assault as you came ? He is assaulted by Adam the First FAITH . 
When I came to the foot of the hill called Difficulty , I met with a very aged man , who asked me what I was , and whither bound . 
I told him that I am a pilgrim , going to the Celestial City . 
He said his name was Adam the First , and that he dwelt in the town of Deceit . 
I asked him then what was his work , and what the wages he would give . 
He told me that his work was many delights and his wages that I should be his heir at last . 
I further asked him what house he kept , and what other servants he had . 
So he told me that his house was maintained with all the dainties in the world and that his servants were those of his own begetting . 
Then I asked if he had any children . 
John Then I asked how long time he would have me live with him ? And he told me , As long as he lived himself . 
Well , and what conclusion came the old man and you to at last ? FAITH . 
And how then ? FAITH . 
So I bid him forbear to talk , for I would not come near the door of his house . 
Then he reviled me , and told me that he would send such a one after me , that should make my way bitter to my soul . 
This made me cry , O wretched man ! Rom . 
So I went on my way up the hill . 
Just there , said Christian , did I sit down to rest me but being overcome with sleep , I there lost this roll out of my bosom . 
But , good brother , hear me out . 
So soon as the man overtook me , he was but a word and a blow , for down he knocked me , and laid me for dead . 
But when I was a little come to myself again , I asked him wherefore he served me so . 
So , when I came to myself again , I cried him mercy but he said , I know not how to show mercy and with that he knocked me down again . 
He had doubtless made an end of me , but that one came by , and bid him forbear . 
Who was that that bid him forbear ? FAITH . 
I did not know him at first , but as he went by , I perceived the holes in his hands and in his side then I concluded that he was our Lord . 
So I went up the hill . 
The temper of Moses CHR . 
That man that overtook you was Moses . 
He spareth none , neither knoweth he how to show mercy to those that transgress his law . 
I know it very well it was not the first time that he has met with me . 
It was he that came to me when I dwelt securely at home , and that told me he would burn my house over my head if I stayed there . 
But did you not see the house that stood there on the top of the hill , on the side of which Moses met you ? FAITH . 
But pray tell me , Did you meet nobody in the Valley of Humility ? Faithful assaulted by Discontent FAITH . 
Yes , I met with one Discontent , who would willingly have persuaded me to go back again with him his reason was , for that the valley was altogether without honour . 
Well , and how did you answer him ? Faithful's answer to Discontent FAITH . 
I told him , moreover , that as to this valley , he had quite misrepresented the thing for before honour is humility , and a haughty spirit before a fall . 
Therefore , said I , I had rather go through this valley to the honour that was so accounted by the wisest , than choose that which he esteemed most worthy our affections . 
Met you with nothing else in that valley ? He is assaulted with Shame FAITH . 
Yes , I met with Shame but of all the men that I met with in my pilgrimage , he , I think , bears the wrong name . 
The others would be said nay , after a little argumentation , and somewhat else but this bold faced Shame would never have done . 
Why , what did he say to you ? FAITH . 
He objected also , that but few of the mighty , rich , or wise , were ever of my opinion Cor . 
And is not this , said he , a shame ? CHR . 
And what did you say to him ? FAITH . 
Say ! I could not tell what to say at the first . 
Yea , he put me so to it , that my blood came up in my face even this Shame fetched it up , and had almost beat me quite off . 
But at last I began to consider , that that which is highly esteemed among men , is had in abomination with God . 
Luke And I thought again , this Shame tells me what men are but it tells me nothing what God or the Word of God is . 
Therefore , thought I , what God says is best , indeed is best , though all the men in the world are against it . 
Oh , let the pilgrims , let the pilgrims , then Be vigilant , and quit themselves like men . 
But let us still resist him for notwithstanding all his bravadoes , he promoteth the fool and none else . 
The wise shall inherit glory , said Solomon , but shame shall be the promotion of fools . 
I think we must cry to Him for help against Shame , who would have us to be valiant for the truth upon the earth . 
You say true but did you meet nobody else in that valley ? FAITH . 
No , not I for I had sunshine all the rest of the way through that , and also through the Valley of the Shadow of Death . 
It was well for you . 
Then I entered into the Valley of the Shadow of Death , and had no light for almost half the way through it . 
He was a tall man , and something more comely at a distance than at hand . 
To this man Faithful addressed himself in this manner FAITH . 
Friend , whither away ? Are you going to the heavenly country ? TALK . 
I am going to the same place . 
That is well then I hope we may have your good company . 
With a very good will will I be your companion . 
Faithful and Talkative enter discourse FAITH . 
Come on , then , and let us go together , and let us spend our time in discoursing of things that are profitable . 
Talkative's dislike of bad discourse TALK . 
, but choose much rather to be speaking of things to no profit and this hath been a trouble for me . 
That is true but to be profited by such things in our talk should be that which we design . 
Further , by this a man may learn to refute false opinions , to vindicate the truth , and also to instruct the ignorant . 
All this is true , and glad am I to hear these things from you . 
But , by your leave , heavenly knowledge of these is the gift of God no man attaineth to them by human industry , or only by the talk of them . 
All this I know very well for a man can receive nothing , except it be given him from Heaven all is of grace , not of works . 
I could give you a hundred scriptures for the confirmation of this . 
Well , then , said Faithful , what is that one thing that we shall at this time found our discourse upon ? O brave Talkative TALK . 
Faithful beguiled by Talkative FAITH . 
, What a brave companion have we got ! Surely this man will make a very excellent pilgrim . 
Do you know him , then ? Christian makes a discovery of Talkative , telling Faithful who he was CHR . 
Know him ! Yes , better than he knows himself . 
Pray , what is he ? CHR . 
His name is Talkative he dwelleth in our town . 
I wonder that you should be a stranger to him , only I consider that our town is large . 
Whose son is he ? And whereabout does he dwell ? CHR . 
Well , he seems to be a very pretty man . 
That is , to them who have not thorough acquaintance with him for he is best abroad near home , he is ugly enough . 
But I am ready to think you do but jest , because you smiled . 
in this matter , or that I should accuse any falsely ! I will give you a further discovery of him . 
Say you so ! then am I in this man greatly deceived . 
Talkative talks , but does not CHR . 
Deceived ! you may be sure of it remember the proverb , They say and do not . 
But the kingdom of God is not in word , but in Power . 
Cor He talketh of prayer , of repentance , of faith , and of the new birth but he knows but only to talk of them . 
I have been in his family , and have observed him both at home and abroad and I know what I say of him is the truth . 
His house is empty of religion His house is as empty of religion as the white of an egg is of savour . 
There is there neither prayer nor sign of repentance for sin yea , the brute in his kind serves God far better than he . 
, The Proverb that goes of him Thus say the common people that know him , A saint abroad , and a devil at home . 
will go beyond them , defraud , beguile , and overreach them . 
he calls them fools and blockheads , and by no means will employ them in much , or speak to their commendations before others . 
For I cannot think that you speak these things of ill will , but because it is even so as you say . 
Besides , good men are ashamed of him they can neither call him brother , nor friend the very naming of him among them makes them blush , if they know him . 
Well , I see that saying and doing are two things , and hereafter I shall better observe this distinction . 
The carcass of religion CHR . 
This Talkative is not aware of he thinks that hearing and saying will make a good Christian , and thus he deceiveth his own soul . 
, It will not be said then , Did you believe ? but , Were you doers , or talkers only ? and accordingly shall they be judged . 
The end of the world is compared to our harvest and you know men at harvest regard nothing but fruit . 
Not that anything can be accepted that is not of faith , but I speak this to show you how insignificant the profession of Talkative will be at that day . 
Faithful convinced of the badness of Talkative FAITH . 
This brings to my mind that of Moses , by which he describeth the beast that is clean . 
He is such a one that parteth the hoof and cheweth the cud not that parteth the hoof only , or that cheweth the cud only . 
The hare cheweth the cud , but yet is unclean , because he parteth not the hoof . 
Talkative like to things that sound without life CHR . 
You have spoken , for aught I know , the true gospel sense of those texts . 
Well , I was not so fond of his company at first , but I am as sick of it now . 
What shall we do to be rid of him ? CHR . 
What would you have me to do ? CHR . 
whether this thing be set up in his heart , house , or conversation . 
Then Faithful stepped forward again , and said to Talkative , Come , what cheer ? How is it now ? TALK . 
I thought we should have had a great deal of talk by this time . 
I perceive , then , that our talk must be about the power of things . 
Well , it is a very good question , and I shall be willing to answer you . 
And take my answer in brief , thus First , Where the grace of God is in the heart , it causeth there a great outcry against sin . 
Nay , hold , let us consider of one at once . 
I think you should rather say , It shows itself by inclining the soul to abhor its sin . 
Why , what difference is there between crying out against , and abhorring of sin ? To cry out against sin , no sign of grace FAITH . 
Oh , a great deal . 
A man may cry out against sin of policy , but he cannot abhor it , but by virtue of a godly antipathy against it . 
I have heard many cry out against sin in the pulpit , who yet can abide it well enough in the heart , house , and conversation . 
Joseph's mistress cried out with a loud voice , as if she had been very holy but she would willingly , notwithstanding that , have committed uncleanness with him . 
You lie at the catch , I perceive . 
No , not I I am only for setting things right . 
But what is the second thing whereby you would prove a discovery of a work of grace in the heart ? TALK . 
Great knowledge of gospel mysteries . 
Great knowledge no sign of grace FAITH . 
Yea , if a man have all knowledge , he may yet be nothing , and so consequently be no child of God . 
When Christ said , Do you know all these things ? and the disciples had answered , Yes he addeth , Blessed are ye if ye do them . 
He doth not lay the blessing in the knowing of them , but in the doing of them . 
For there is a knowledge that is not attended with doing He that knoweth his masters will , and doeth it not . 
A man may know like an angel , and yet be no Christian , therefore your sign of it is not true . 
Indeed , to know is a thing that pleaseth talkers and boasters , but to do is that which pleaseth God . 
Not that the heart can be good without knowledge for without that , the heart is naught . 
Knowledge and knowledge There is , therefore , knowledge and knowledge . 
True knowledge attended with endeavors Give me understanding , and I shall keep thy law yea , I shall observe it with my whole heart . 
You lie at the catch again this is not for edification . 
Well , if you please , propound another sign how this work of grace discovereth itself where it is . 
Not I , for I see we shall not agree . 
Well , if you will not , will you give me leave to do it ? TALK . 
You may use your liberty . 
One good sign of grace FAITH . 
A work of grace in the soul discovereth itself , either to him that hath it , or to standers by . 
, the promise is made . 
To others , it is thus discovered . 
By an experimental confession of his faith in Christ . 
Nay , my part is not now to object , but to hear let me , therefore , have your second question . 
Another good sign of grace FAITH . 
Besides , to say I am thus and thus , when my conversation , and all my neighbours , tell me I lie , is great wickedness . 
Talkative not pleased with Faithful's question TALK . 
But , I pray , will you tell me why you ask me such questions ? The reasons why Faithful put to him that question FAITH . 
Because I saw you forward to talk , and because I knew not that you had aught else but notion . 
The proverb is true of you which is said of a whore , to wit , that she is a shame to all women so are you a shame to all professors . 
Talkative flings away from Faithful TALK . 
as he is , he would have been but a blot in our company besides , the apostle says , From such withdraw thyself . 
do puzzle the world , blemish Christianity , and grieve the sincere . 
And so will all , but he that HEART WORK knows . 
Oh ! said Faithful to his brother , who comes yonder ? Then Christian looked , and said , It is my good friend Evangelist . 
Ay , and my good friend too , said Faithful , for it was he that set me in the way to the gate . 
Now was Evangelist come up to them , and thus saluted them EVAN . 
Peace be with you , dearly beloved and peace be to your helpers . 
They are glad at the sight of him CHR . 
Welcome , welcome , my good Evangelist , the sight of thy countenance brings to my remembrance thy ancient kindness and unwearied labouring for my eternal good . 
And a thousand times welcome , said good Faithful . 
Thy company , O sweet Evangelist , how desirable it is to us poor pilgrims ! EVAN . 
His exhortation to them EVAN . 
I say , right glad am I of this thing , and that for mine own sake and yours . 
The crown is before you , and it is an incorruptible one so run , that you may obtain it . 
They do thank him for his exhortation CHR . 
To which request Faithful also consented . 
So Evangelist began as followeth He predicteth what troubles they shall meet with in Vanity Fair , and encourageth them to steadfastness EVAN . 
My sons , you have heard , in the words of the truth of the gospel , that you must , through many tribulations , enter into the kingdom of heaven . 
As is the saying of the wise , all that cometh is vanity . 
This fair is no new erected business , but a thing of ancient standing I will show you the original of it . 
Here are to be seen , too , and that for nothing , thefts , murders , adulteries , false swearers , and that of a blood red colour . 
, where the wares of this fair are soonest to be found . 
Here is the Britain Row , the French Row , the Italian Row , the Spanish Row , the German Row , where several sorts of vanities are to be sold . 
This fair , therefore , is an ancient thing , of long standing , and a very great fair . 
The pilgrims enter the fair Now these pilgrims , as I said , must needs go through this fair . 
The people , therefore , of the fair , made a great gazing upon them some said they were fools , some they were bedlams , and some they are outlandish men . 
The fair in a hubbub At last things came to a hubbub and great stir in the fair , insomuch that all order was confounded . 
Behold Vanity Fair ! the Pilgrims there Are chain'd and stand beside Even so it was our Lord pass'd here , And on Mount Calvary died . 
This put the other party yet into greater rage , insomuch that they concluded the death of these two men . 
Then were they remanded to the cage again , until further order should be taken with them . 
So they put them in , and made their feet fast in the stocks . 
They are again put into the cage , and after brought to trial Then a convenient time being appointed , they brought them forth to their trial , in order to their condemnation . 
When the time was come , they were brought before their enemies and arraigned . 
The judge's name was Lord Hate good . 
Faithful's answer for himself Then Faithful began to answer , that he had only set himself against that which hath set itself against Him that is higher than the highest . 
And as to the king you talk of , since he is Beelzebub , the enemy of our Lord , I defy him and all his angels . 
Then proclamation was made , that they that had aught to say for their lord the king against the prisoner at the bar , should forthwith appear and give in their evidence . 
So there came in three witnesses , to wit , Envy , Superstition , and Pickthank . 
They were then asked if they knew the prisoner at the bar and what they had to say for their lord the king against him . 
Hold ! Give him his oath . 
My Lord , this man , notwithstanding his plausible name , is one of the vilest men in our country . 
And , in particular , I heard him once myself affirm that Christianity and the customs of our town of Vanity were diametrically opposite , and could not be reconciled . 
By which saying , my Lord , he doth at once not only condemn all our laudable doings , but us in the doing of them . 
Then did the Judge say to him , Hast thou any more to say ? ENVY . 
My Lord , I could say much more , only I would not be tedious to the court . 
So he was bid to stand by . 
Then they called Superstition , and bid him look upon the prisoner . 
They also asked , what he could say for their lord the king against him . 
Then they sware him so he began . 
Then was Pickthank sworn , and bid say what he knew , in behalf of their lord the king , against the prisoner at the bar . 
May I speak a few words in my own defence ? JUDGE . 
Faithful's defence of himself FAITH . 
If I have said amiss in this , convince me of my error , and I am ready here before you to make my recantation . 
Gentlemen of the jury , you see this man about whom so great an uproar hath been made in this town . 
You have also heard what these worthy gentlemen have witnessed against him . 
Also you have heard his reply and confession . 
It lieth now in your breasts to hang him or save his life but yet I think meet to instruct you into our law . 
There was also an Act made in the days of Darius , that whoso , for some time , called upon any god but him , should be cast into the lions' den . 
, but also in word and deed which must therefore needs be intolerable . 
For that of Pharaoh , his law was made upon a supposition , to prevent mischief , no crime being yet apparent but here is a crime apparent . 
For the second and third , you see he disputeth against our religion and for the treason he hath confessed , he deserveth to die the death . 
Everyones private verdict And first , among themselves , Mr. Blind man , the foreman , said , I see clearly that this man is a heretic . 
Then said Mr. No good , Away with such a fellow from the earth . 
Ay , said Mr. Malice , for I hate the very looks of him . 
Then said Mr. Love lust , I could never endure him . 
Nor I , said Mr. Live loose , for he would always be condemning my way . 
Hang him , hang him , said Mr. Heady . 
A sorry scrub , said Mr. High mind . 
My heart riseth against him , said Mr. Enmity . 
He is a rogue , said Mr. Liar . 
Hanging is too good for him , said Mr. Cruelty . 
Let us despatch him out of the way , said Mr. Hate light . 
Thus came Faithful to his end . 
was taken up into it , and straightway was carried up through the clouds , with sound of trumpet , the nearest way to the Celestial Gate . 
In the New Heaven and New Earth . 
footnote from one edition Christian is still alive But as for Christian , he had some respite , and was remanded back to prison . 
, who joined himself unto him , and , entering into a brotherly covenant , told him that he would be his companion . 
Thus , one died to bear testimony to the truth , and another rises out of his ashes , to be a companion with Christian in his pilgrimage . 
From Fair speech ! said Christian . 
Is there any good that lives there ? Prov . 
Yes , said By ends , I hope . 
Pray , Sir , what may I call you ? said Christian . 
By ends loath to tell his name BY ENDS . 
I am a stranger to you , and you to me if you be going this way , I shall be glad of your company if not , I must be content . 
This town of Fair speech , said Christian , I have heard of and , as I remember , they say it is a wealthy place . 
Yes , I will assure you that it is and I have very many rich kindred there . 
Pray , who are your kindred there ? if a man may be so bold . 
Are you a married man ? The wife and kindred of By ends BY ENDS . 
Then said Hopeful , Ask him methinks he should not be ashamed of his name . 
But did you never give an occasion to men to call you by this name ? How By ends got his name BY ENDS . 
He desires to keep company with Christian BY ENDS . 
Well , if you will thus imagine , I cannot help it you shall find me a fair company keeper , if you will still admit me your associate . 
You must not impose , nor lord it over my faith leave me to my liberty , and let me go with you . 
Not a step further , unless you will do in what I propound as we . 
Then said By ends , I shall never desert my old principles , since they are harmless and profitable . 
Well , when they had , as I said , thus saluted each other , Mr. Money love said to Mr. By ends , Who are they upon the road before us ? . 
By ends' character of the pilgrims BY ENDS . 
They are a couple of far countrymen , that , after their mode , are going on pilgrimage . 
That is bad , but we read of some that are righteous overmuch and such men's rigidness prevails with them to judge and condemn all but themselves . 
But , I pray , what , and how many , were the things wherein you differed ? BY ENDS . 
Why , they , after their headstrong manner , conclude that it is duty to rush on their journey all weathers and I am for waiting for wind and tide . 
They are for hazarding all for God at a clap and I am for taking all advantages to secure my life and estate . 
They are for religion when in rags and contempt but I am for him when he walks in his golden slippers , in the sunshine , and with applause . 
God sends sometimes rain , and sometimes sunshine if they be such fools to go through the first , yet let us be content to take fair weather along with us . 
And Job says , that a good man shall lay up gold as dust . 
But he must not be such as the men before us , if they be as you have described them . 
I think that we are all agreed in this matter , and therefore there needs no more words about it . 
neither knows his own liberty , nor seeks his own safety . 
I see the bottom of your question and , with these gentlemen's good leave , I will endeavour to shape you an answer . 
, ay , and more a great deal besides , and yet be an honest man . 
, since it is set before him by Providence so then , he may get it , if he can , making no question for conscience' sake . 
Besides , his desire after that benefice makes him more studious , a more zealous preacher , c . 
, and so makes him a better man yea , makes him better improve his parts , which is according to the mind of God . 
more fit for the ministerial function . 
And now to the second part of the question , which concerns the tradesman you mentioned . 
To become religious is a virtue , by what means soever a man becomes so . 
Nor is it unlawful to get a rich wife , or more custom to my shop . 
Then said Christian , Even a babe in religion may answer ten thousand such questions . 
The hypocritical Pharisees were also of this religion long prayers were their pretence , but to get widows' houses was their intent and greater damnation was from God their judgment . 
Simon the witch was of this religion too for he would have had the Holy Ghost , that he might have got money therewith and his sentence from Peter's mouth was according . 
Then they stood staring one upon another , but had not wherewith to answer Christian . 
Hopeful also approved of the soundness of Christian's answer so there was a great silence among them . 
Mr. By ends and his company also staggered and kept behind , that Christian and Hopeful might outgo them . 
Demas at the Hill Lucre . 
to call to passengers to come and see who said to Christian and his fellow , Ho ! turn aside hither , and I will show you a thing . 
What thing so deserving as to turn us out of the way to see it ? DEMAS . 
Here is a silver mine , and some digging in it for treasure . 
If you will come , with a little pains you may richly provide for yourselves . 
Hopeful tempted to go , but Christian holds him back Hope . 
Then said Hopeful , Let us go see . 
Then Christian called to Demas , saying , Is not the place dangerous ? Hath it not hindered many in their pilgrimage ? Hos . 
Not very dangerous , except to those that are careless , . 
Then said Christian to Hopeful , Let us not stir a step , but still keep on our way . 
I will warrant you , when By ends comes up , if he hath the same invitation as we , he will turn in thither to see . 
No doubt thereof , for his principles lead him that way , and a hundred to one but he dies there . 
Then Demas called again , saying , But will you not come over and see ? Christian roundeth up Demas CHR . 
Demas cried again , that he also was one of their fraternity and that if they would tarry a little , he also himself would walk with them . 
Then said Christian , What is thy name ? Is it not the same by the which I have called thee ? DEMAS . 
Yes , my name is Demas I am the son of Abraham . 
I know you Gehazi was your great grandfather , and Judas your father and you have trod in their steps . 
, , It is but a devilish prank that thou usest thy father was hanged for a traitor , and thou deservest no better reward . 
Assure thyself , that when we come to the King , we will do him word of this thy behaviour . 
Thus they went their way . 
By ends goes over to Demas By this time By ends and his companions were come again within sight , and they , at the first beck , went over to Demas . 
to see if he could pick out the meaning so he came , and after a little laying of letters together , he found the same to be this , Remember Lot's Wife . 
Which sudden and amazing sight gave them occasion of this discourse . 
Let grace be adored , and let me be ashamed that ever such a thing should be in mine heart . 
Let us take notice of what we see here , for our help for time to come . 
This woman escaped one judgment , for she fell not by the destruction of Sodom yet she was destroyed by another , as we see she is turned into a pillar of salt . 
for the land of Sodom was now like the garden of Eden heretofore . 
This , therefore , provoked him the more to jealousy , and made their plague as hot as the fire of the Lord out of heaven could make it . 
A meadow in which they lie down to sleep On either side of the river was also a meadow , curiously beautified with lilies , and it was green all the year long . 
In this meadow they lay down , and slept for here they might lie down safely . 
When they awoke , they gathered again of the fruit of the trees , and drank again of the water of the river , and then lay down again to sleep . 
Thus they did several days and nights . 
they ate and drank , and departed . 
Now the way from the river was rough , and their feet tender , by reason of their travels so the souls of the pilgrims were much discouraged because of the way . 
Wherefore , still as they went on , they wished for better way . 
One temptation does make way for another Then said Christian to his fellow , If this meadow lieth along by our wayside , let us go over into it . 
Then he went to the stile to see , and behold , a path lay along by the way , on the other side of the fence . 
It is according to my wish , said Christian . 
Here is the easiest going come , good Hopeful , and let us go over . 
But how if this path should lead us out of the way ? Strong Christians may lead weak ones out of the way CHR . 
That is not like , said the other . 
Look , doth it not go along by the wayside ? So Hopeful , being persuaded by his fellow , went after him over the stile . 
so they called after him , and asked him whither that way led . 
He said , To the Celestial Gate . 
Look , said Christian , did not I tell you so ? By this you may see we are right . 
So they followed , and he went before them . 
But , behold , the night came on , and it grew very dark so that they that were behind lost the sight of him that went before . 
, not seeing the way before him , fell into a deep pit Isa . 
, which was on purpose there made , by the Prince of those grounds , to catch vain glorious fools withal , and was dashed in pieces with his fall . 
Reasoning between Christian and Hopeful Now Christian and his fellow heard him fall . 
So they called to know the matter , but there was none to answer , only they heard a groaning . 
Then Hopeful groaned in himself , saying , Oh , that I had kept on my way ! CHR . 
Who could have thought that this path should have led us out of the way ? HOPE . 
I was afraid on it at the very first , and therefore gave you that gentle caution . 
I would have spoken plainer , but that you are older than I. Christian's repentance for leading of his brother out of the way CHR . 
Be comforted , my brother , for I forgive thee and believe , too , that this shall be for our good . 
I am glad I have with me a merciful brother but we must not stand thus let us try to go back again . 
But , good brother , let me go before . 
They are in danger of drowning as they go back HOPE . 
No , said Hopeful , you shall not go first for your mind being troubled may lead you out of the way again . 
Then , for their encouragement , they heard the voice of one saying , Set thine heart toward the highway , even the way which thou wentest turn again . 
But by this time the waters were greatly risen , by reason of which the way of going back was very dangerous . 
They sleep in the grounds of Giant Despair Neither could they , with all the skill they had , get again to the stile that night . 
Wherefore , at last , lighting under a little shelter , they sat down there until the daybreak but , being weary , they fell asleep . 
Then , with a grim and surly voice , he bid them awake and asked them whence they were , and what they did in his grounds . 
They told him they were pilgrims , and that they had lost their way . 
Then said the Giant , You have this night trespassed on me , by trampling in and lying on my grounds , and therefore you must go along with me . 
So they were forced to go , because he was stronger than they . 
They also had but little to say , for they knew themselves in a fault . 
Now in this place Christian had double sorrow , because it was through his unadvised counsel that they were brought into this distress . 
On Thursday , Giant Despair beats his prisoners Now , Giant Despair had a wife , and her name was Diffidence . 
Then he asked her also what he had best to do further to them . 
So she asked him what they were , whence they came , and whither they were bound and he told her . 
Then she counselled him that when he arose in the morning he should beat them without any mercy . 
Then he falls upon them , and beats them fearfully , in such sort that they were not able to help themselves , or to turn them upon the floor . 
This done , he withdraws and leaves them there to condole their misery and to mourn under their distress . 
So all that day they spent the time in nothing but sighs and bitter lamentations . 
The next night , she , talking with her husband about them further , and understanding they were yet alive , did advise him to counsel them to make away themselves . 
, and lost for a time the use of his hand wherefore he withdrew , and left them as before , to consider what to do . 
Then did the prisoners consult between themselves whether it was best to take his counsel or no and thus they began to discourse Christian crushed CHR . 
Brother , said Christian , what shall we do ? The life that we now live is miserable . 
For my part I know not whether is best , to live thus , or to die out of hand . 
My soul chooseth strangling rather than life , and the grave is more easy for me than this dungeon . 
Job Shall we be ruled by the Giant ? Hopeful comforts him HOPE . 
Besides , he that kills another , can but commit murder upon his body but for one to kill himself is to kill body and soul at once . 
And let us consider , again , that all the law is not in the hand of Giant Despair . 
Others , so far as I can understand , have been taken by him , as well as we and yet have escaped out of his hand . 
I was a fool that I did not try to do it before but , however , my brother , let us be patient , and endure a while . 
The time may come that may give us a happy release but let us not be our own murderers . 
that day , in their sad and doleful condition . 
Now Christian again seemed to be for doing it , but Hopeful made his second reply as followeth Hopeful comforts him again , by calling former things to remembrance HOPE . 
bear up with patience as well as we can . 
Now , night being come again , and the Giant and his wife being in bed , she asked him concerning the prisoners , and if they had taken his counsel . 
To which he replied , They are sturdy rogues , they choose rather to bear all hardship , than to make away themselves . 
Go , get you down to your den again and with that he beat them all the way thither . 
They lay , therefore , all day on Saturday in a lamentable case , as before . 
And sayest thou so , my dear ? said the Giant I will , therefore , search them in the morning . 
Well , on Saturday , about midnight , they began to pray , and continued in prayer till almost break of day . 
Then said Hopeful , That is good news , good brother pluck it out of thy bosom , and try . 
gave back , and the door flew open with ease , and Christian and Hopeful both came out . 
Then he went to the outward door that leads into the castle yard , and , with his key , opened that door also . 
After , he went to the iron gate , for that must be opened too but that lock went damnable hard , yet the key did open it . 
Then they went on , and came to the King's highway , and so were safe , because they were out of his jurisdiction . 
Many , therefore , that followed after read what was written , and escaped the danger . 
Lest they for trespassing his prisoners are , Whose castle's Doubting , and whose name's Despair . 
They are refreshed in the mountains Now there were on the tops of these mountains Shepherds feeding their flocks , and they stood by the highway side . 
These mountains are Immanuel's Land , and they are within sight of his city and the sheep also are his , and he laid down his life for them . 
Is this the way to the Celestial City ? SHEP . 
You are just in your way . 
How far is it thither ? SHEP . 
Too far for any but those that shall get thither indeed . 
Is the way safe or dangerous ? SHEP . 
Safe for those for whom it is to be safe but the transgressors shall fall therein . 
Is there , in this place , any relief for pilgrims that are weary and faint in the way ? SHEP . 
The Lord of these mountains hath given us a charge not to be forgetful to entertain strangers , therefore the good of the place is before you . 
But when the Shepherds heard their answers , being pleased therewith , they looked very lovingly upon them , and said , Welcome to the Delectable Mountains . 
They said , moreover , We would that ye should stay here awhile , to be acquainted with us and yet more to solace yourselves with the good of these Delectable Mountains . 
They then told them , that they were content to stay so they went to their rest that night , because it was very late . 
So Christian and Hopeful looked down , and saw at the bottom several men dashed all to pieces by a fall that they had from the top . 
, They answered , Yes . 
Then Christian and Hopeful looked upon one another , with tears gushing out , but yet said nothing to the Shepherds . 
Then said Hopeful to the Shepherds , I perceive that these had on them , even every one , a show of pilgrimage , as we have now had they not ? SHEP . 
Yes , and held it a long time too . 
How far might they go on in pilgrimage in their day , since they notwithstanding were thus miserably cast away ? SHEP . 
Some further , and some not so far , as these mountains . 
Then said the Pilgrims one to another , We have need to cry to the Strong for strength . 
Ay , and you will have need to use it , when you have it , too . 
The Shepherds' perspective glass By this time the Pilgrims had a desire to go forward , and the Shepherds a desire they should so they walked together towards the end of the mountains . 
Then said the Shepherds one to another , Let us here show to the Pilgrims the gates of the Celestial City , if they have skill to look through our perspective glass . 
The Hill Clear The Pilgrims then lovingly accepted the motion so they had them to the top of a high hill , called Clear , and gave them their glass to look . 
Then they went away , and sang this song Thus , by the Shepherds , secrets are reveal'd , Which from all other men are kept conceal'd . 
Come to the Shepherds , then , if you would see Things deep , things hid , and that mysterious be . 
A twofold caution When they were about to depart , one of the Shepherds gave them a note of the way . 
Another of them bid them beware of the Flatterer . 
The third bid them take heed that they sleep not upon the Enchanted Ground . 
And the fourth bid them God speed . 
So I awoke from my dream . 
Here , therefore , they met with a very brisk lad , that came out of that country and his name was Ignorance . 
So Christian asked him from what parts he came , and whither he was going . 
Christian and Ignorance have some talk IGNOR . 
Sir , I was born in the country that lieth off there a little on the left hand , and I am going to the Celestial City . 
But how do you think to get in at the gate ? for you may find some difficulty there . 
As other people do , said he . 
But what have you to show at that gate , that may cause that the gate should be opened to you ? The ground of Ignorance's hope IGNOR . 
He saith to every one that he is a fool IGNOR . 
Gentlemen , ye be utter strangers to me , I know you not be content and follow the religion of your country , and I will follow the religion of mine . 
I hope all will be well . 
And as for the gate that you talk of , all the world knows that that is a great way off of our country . 
And said , moreover , When he that is a fool walketh by the way , his wisdom faileth him , and he saith to every one that he is a fool . 
God saith , those that no understanding have , Although he made them , them he will not save . 
The destruction of one Turn away So they both went on , and Ignorance he came after . 
But he did not perfectly see his face , for he did hang his head like a thief that is found . 
But being once past , Hopeful looked after him , and espied on his back a paper with this inscription , Wanton professor and damnable apostate . 
The name of the man was Little faith , but a good man , and he dwelt in the town of Sincere . 
, and they espying Little faith , where he was , came galloping up with speed . 
Now the good man was just awake from his sleep , and was getting up to go on his journey . 
So they came up all to him , and with threatening language bid him stand . 
At this Little faith looked as white as a clout , and had neither power to fight nor fly . 
Little faith robbed by Faint heart , Mistrust and Guilt Then said Faint heart , Deliver thy purse . 
, Mistrust ran up to him , and thrusting his hand into his pocket , pulled out thence a bag of silver . 
All this while the thieves stood by . 
Now , after a while , Little faith came to himself , and getting up , made shift to scrabble on his way . 
But did they take from him all that ever he had ? Little faith lost not his best things Chr . 
No the place where his jewels were they never ransacked , so those he kept still . 
But , as I was told , the good man was much afflicted for his loss , for the thieves got most of his spending money . 
with many a hungry belly the most part of the rest of the way . 
But it must needs be a comfort to him , that they got not his jewels from him . 
Peter He is pitied by both HOPE . 
Alas ! poor man ! This could not but be a great grief to him . 
Grief ! ay , a grief indeed . 
But it is a wonder that his necessity did not put him upon selling or pawning some of his jewels , that he might have wherewith to relieve himself in his journey . 
Christian snubbeth his fellow for unadvised speaking CHR . 
been excluded from an inheritance there and that would have been worse to him than the appearance and villainy of ten thousand thieves . 
A discourse about Esau and Little faith CHR . 
, and what profit shall this birthright do me ? Gen . 
When their minds are set upon their lusts , they will have them whatever they cost . 
Here , therefore , my brother , is thy mistake . 
I acknowledge it but yet your severe reflection had almost made me angry . 
No great heart for God , where there is but little faith CHR . 
That they are cowards , many have said , but few have found it so in the time of trial . 
I myself have been engaged as this Little faith was , and I found it a terrible thing . 
These three villains set upon me , and I beginning , like a Christian , to resist , they gave but a call , and in came their master . 
I would , as the saying is , have given my life for a penny , but that , as God would have it , I was clothed with armour of proof . 
Ay , and yet , though I was so harnessed , I found it hard work to quit myself like a man . 
No man can tell what in that combat attends us , but he that hath been in the battle himself . 
Well , but they ran , you see , when they did but suppose that one Great grace was in the way . 
True , they have often fled , both they and their master , when Great grace hath but appeared and no marvel for he is the King's champion . 
But , I trow , you will put some difference betwixt Little faith and the King's champion . 
All the King's subjects are not his champions , nor can they , when tried , do such feats of war as he . 
This man was one of the weak , and therefore he went to the wall . 
I would it had been Great grace for their sakes . 
, We despaired even of life . 
Leviathan's sturdiness Besides , their king is at their whistle . 
The arrow cannot make him flee sling stones are turned with him into stubble . 
Darts are counted as stubble he laugheth at the shaking of a spear . 
He mocketh at fear , and is not affrighted , neither turneth he back from the sword . 
The quiver rattleth against him , the glittering spear , and the shield . 
He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage , neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet . 
He saith among the trumpets , Ha , ha ! and he smelleth the battle afar off , the thunder of the captains , and the shouting . 
Witness Peter , of whom I made mention before . 
Therefore , he that had skill hath said , Above all , taking the shield of faith , wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked . 
It is good to have a convoy . 
It is good , also , that we desire of the King a convoy , yea , that he will go with us himself . 
This made David rejoice when in the Valley of the Shadow of Death and Moses was rather for dying where he stood , than to go one step without his God . 
Oh , my brother , if he will but go along with us , what need we be afraid of ten thousands that shall set themselves against us ? Ps . 
, But , without him , the proud helpers fall under the slain . 
Glad shall I be , if I meet with no more such brunts though I fear we are not got beyond all danger . 
However , since the lion and the bear have not as yet devoured me , I hope God will also deliver us from the next uncircumcised Philistine . 
A way , and a way So they went on and Ignorance followed . 
They answered they were going to the Celestial City , but knew not which of these ways to take . 
Follow me , said the man , it is thither that I am going . 
They are taken in a net Then they saw where they were . 
Wherefore , there they lay crying some time , for they could not get themselves out . 
They bewail their condition CHR . 
Then said Christian to his fellow , Now do I see myself in error . 
Did not the Shepherds bid us beware of the flatterers ? As is the saying of the wise man , so we have found it this day . 
A man that flattereth his neighbour , spreadeth a net for his feet . 
A Shining One comes to them with a whip in his hand HOPE . 
Thus they lay bewailing themselves in the net . 
At last they espied a Shining One coming towards them with a whip of small cord in his hand . 
When he was come to the place where they were , he asked them whence they came , and what they did there . 
Then said he with the whip , It is Flatterer , a false apostle , that hath transformed himself into an angel of light . 
, So he rent the net , and let the men out . 
Then said he to them , Follow me , that I may set you in your way again . 
So he led them back to the way which they had left to follow the Flatterer . 
Then he asked them , saying , Where did you lie the last night ? They said , With the Shepherds upon the Delectable Mountains . 
They are examined , and convicted of forgetfulness He asked them then if they had not of those Shepherds a note of direction for the way . 
and as he chastised them he said , As many as I love , I rebuke and chasten be zealous , therefore , and repent . 
This done , he bid them go on their way , and take good heed to the other directions of the shepherds . 
They catched are in an entangling net , 'Cause they good counsel lightly did forget 'Tis true they rescued were , but yet you see , They're scourged to boot . 
Let this your caution be . 
Now , after a while , they perceived , afar off , one coming softly and alone , all along the highway to meet them . 
Then said Christian to his fellow , Yonder is a man with his back towards Zion , and he is coming to meet us . 
The Atheist meets them HOPE . 
I see him let us take heed to ourselves now , lest he should prove a flatterer also . 
So he drew nearer and nearer , and at last came up unto them . 
His name was Atheist , and he asked them whither they were going . 
We are going to Mount Zion . 
He laughs at them Then Atheist fell into a very great laughter . 
What is the meaning of your laughter ? ATHEIST . 
I laugh to see what ignorant persons you are , to take upon you so tedious a journey , and you are like to have nothing but your travel for your pains . 
Why , man , do you think we shall not be received ? ATHEIST . 
Received ! There is no such place as you dream of in all this world . 
But there is in the world to come . 
We have both heard and believe that there is such a place to be found . 
The Atheist takes up his content in this world ATHEIST . 
Christian proveth his brother CHR . 
Then said Christian to Hopeful his fellow , Is it true which this man hath said ? Hopeful's gracious answer Hope . 
Take heed , he is one of the flatterers remember what it hath cost us once already for our hearkening to such kind of fellows . 
I say , my brother , cease to hear him , and let us believe to the saving of the soul . 
A fruit of an honest heart CHR . 
As for this man , I know that he is blinded by the god of this world . 
Let thee and I go on , knowing that we have belief of the truth , and no lie is of the truth . 
Now do I rejoice in hope of the glory of God . 
So they turned away from the man and he , laughing at them , went his way . 
Christian keeps him awake CHR . 
By no means , said the other , lest sleeping , we never awake more . 
Why , my brother ? Sleep is sweet to the labouring man we may be refreshed if we take a nap . 
I acknowledge myself in a fault , and had I been here alone I had by sleeping run the danger of death . 
I see it is true that the wise man saith , Two are better than one . 
Hitherto hath thy company been my mercy , and thou shalt have a good reward for thy labour . 
To prevent drowsiness , they fall to good discourse CHR . 
Now then , said Christian , to prevent drowsiness in this place , let us fall into good discourse . 
With all my heart , said the other . 
Good discourse prevents drowsiness CHR . 
Where shall we begin ? HOPE . 
Where God began with us . 
But do you begin , if you please . 
Saints' fellowship , if it be managed well , Keeps them awake , and that in spite of hell . 
They begin at the beginning of their conversion CHR . 
Then Christian began and said , I will ask you a question . 
How came you to think at first of so doing as you do now ? HOPE . 
Do you mean , how came I at first to look after the good of my soul ? CHR . 
Yes , that is my meaning . 
What things are they ? Hopeful's life before conversion HOPE . 
All the treasures and riches of the world . 
Also , I delighted much in rioting , revelling , drinking , swearing , lying , uncleanness , Sabbath breaking , and what not , that tended to destroy the soul . 
And that for these things' sake cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience . 
And did you presently fall under the power of this conviction ? Hopeful at first shuts his eyes against the light HOPE . 
But what was the cause of your carrying of it thus to the first workings of God's blessed Spirit upon you ? Reasons of his resisting the light HOPE . 
I was ignorant that this was the work of God upon me . 
I never thought that , by awakenings for sin , God at first begins the conversion of a sinner . 
Sin was yet very sweet to my flesh , and I was loath to leave it . 
I could not tell how to part with mine old companions , their presence and actions were so desirable unto me . 
Then , as it seems , sometimes you got rid of your trouble . 
Yes , verily , but it would come into my mind again , and then I should be as bad , nay , worse , than I was before . 
Why , what was it that brought your sins to mind again ? When he had lost his sense of sin , what brought this again HOPE . 
If I did but meet a good man in the streets or , . 
If I have heard any read in the Bible or , . 
If mine head did begin to ache or , . 
If I were told that some of my neighbours were sick or , . 
If I heard the bell toll for some that were dead or , . 
If I thought of dying myself or , . 
If I heard that sudden death happened to others . 
But especially , when I thought of myself , that I must quickly come to judgment . 
And could you at any time , with ease , get off the guilt of sin , when by any of these ways it came upon you ? HOPE . 
, it would be double torment to me . 
And how did you do then ? When he could no longer shake off his guilt by sinful courses , then he endeavors to mend HOPE . 
I thought I must endeavour to mend my life for else , thought I , I am sure to be damned . 
And did you endeavour to mend ? HOPE . 
These things did I , with many others , too much here to relate . 
And did you think yourself well then ? Then he thought himself well HOPE . 
Yes , for a while but at the last , my trouble came tumbling upon me again , and that over the neck of all my reformations . 
How came that about , since you were now reformed ? Reformation at last could not help , and why HOPE . 
There were several things brought it upon me , especially such sayings as these All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags . 
By the works of the law shall no flesh be justified . 
When ye shall have done all those things , say , We are unprofitable , Luke with many more such like . 
Well , and how did you apply this to yourself ? HOPE . 
Why I thought thus with myself . 
A very good application but , pray , go on . 
His espying bad things in his best duties troubled him HOPE . 
And what did you do then ? This made him break his mind to Faithful , who told him the way to be saved HOPE . 
Do ! I could not tell what to do , until I brake my mind to Faithful , for he and I were well acquainted . 
And did you think he spake true ? HOPE . 
I must confess the words at first sounded strangely , but after a little more talk and company with him , I had full conviction about it . 
And did you ask him what man this was , and how you must be justified by him ? A more particular discovery of the way to be saved HOPE . 
Yes , and he told me it was the Lord Jesus , that dwelleth on the right hand of the Most High . 
And what did you do then ? He doubts of acceptation HOPE . 
I made my objections against my believing , for that I thought he was not willing to save me . 
And what said Faithful to you then ? He is better instructed HOPE . 
He bid me go to him and see . 
Then I said it was presumption but he said , No , for I was invited to come . 
I told him that I knew not what to say when I came . 
Lord , take therefore this opportunity and magnify thy grace in the salvation of my soul , through thy Son Jesus Christ . 
And did you do as you were bidden ? He prays HOPE . 
Yes over , and over , and over . 
And did the Father reveal his Son to you ? HOPE . 
Not at the first , nor second , nor third , nor fourth , nor fifth no , nor at the sixth time neither . 
What did you do then ? HOPE . 
What ! why I could not tell what to do . 
Had you not thoughts of leaving off praying ? He thought to leave off praying HOPE . 
Yes an hundred times twice told . 
And what was the reason you did not ? He durst not leave off praying , and why HOPE . 
And withal , this came into my mind , Though it tarry , wait for it because it will surely come , it will not tarry . 
So I continued praying until the Father showed me his Son . 
And how was he revealed unto you ? Christ is revealed to him , and how HOPE . 
I did not see him with my bodily eyes , but with the eyes of my understanding Eph . 
Acts , But I replied , Lord , I am a great , a very great sinner . 
And he answered , My grace is sufficient for thee . 
John Then the water stood in mine eyes , and I asked further . 
He is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth . 
He died for our sins , and rose again for our justification . 
He loved us , and washed us from our sins in his own blood . 
He is mediator betwixt God and us . 
He ever liveth to make intercession for us . 
And now was my heart full of joy , mine eyes full of tears , and mine affections running over with love to the name , people , and ways of Jesus Christ . 
This was a revelation of Christ to your soul indeed but tell me particularly what effect this had upon your spirit . 
It made me see that all the world , notwithstanding all the righteousness thereof , is in a state of condemnation . 
It made me see that God the Father , though he be just , can justly justify the coming sinner . 
I saw then in my dream that Hopeful looked back and saw Ignorance , whom they had left behind , coming after . 
Look , said he to Christian , how far yonder youngster loitereth behind . 
Ay , ay , I see him he careth not for our company . 
But I trow it would not have hurt him had he kept pace with us hitherto . 
That is true but I warrant you he thinketh otherwise . 
That , I think , he doth but , however , let us tarry for him . 
Young Ignorance comes up again their talk Then Christian said to him , Come away , man , why do you stay so behind ? IGNOR . 
I take my pleasure in walking alone , even more a great deal than in company , unless I like it the better . 
I hope well for I am always full of good motions , that come into my mind , to comfort me as I walk . 
What good motions ? pray , tell us . 
Why , I think of God and heaven . 
So do the devils and damned souls . 
But I think of them and desire them . 
So do many that are never like to come there . 
The soul of the sluggard desireth , and hath nothing . 
But I think of them , and leave all for them . 
That I doubt for leaving all is a hard matter yea , a harder matter than many are aware of . 
But why , or by what , art thou persuaded that thou hast left all for God and heaven . 
My heart tells me so . 
The wise man says , He that trusts his own heart is a fool . 
This is spoken of an evil heart , but mine is a good one . 
But how dost thou prove that ? IGNOR . 
It comforts me in hopes of heaven . 
That may be through its deceitfulness for a man's heart may minister comfort to him in the hopes of that thing for which he yet has no ground to hope . 
But my heart and life agree together , and therefore my hope is well grounded . 
Who told thee that thy heart and life agree together ? IGNOR . 
My heart tells me so . 
Ask my fellow if I be a thief ! Thy heart tells thee so ! Except the Word of God beareth witness in this matter , other testimony is of no value . 
But is it not a good heart that hath good thoughts ? and is not that a good life that is according to God's commandments ? CHR . 
Pray , what count you good thoughts , and a life according to God's commandments ? CHR . 
There are good thoughts of divers kinds some respecting ourselves , some God , some Christ , and some other things . 
What are good thoughts IGNOR . 
What be good thoughts respecting ourselves ? CHR . 
Such as agree with the Word of God . 
When do our thoughts of ourselves agree with the Word of God ? CHR . 
When we pass the same judgment upon ourselves which the Word passes . 
To explain myself the Word of God saith of persons in a natural condition , There is none righteous , there is none that doeth good . 
It saith also , that every imagination of the heart of man is only evil , and that continually . 
And again , The imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth . 
Now then , when we think thus of ourselves , having sense thereof , then are our thoughts good ones , because according to the Word of God . 
I will never believe that my heart is thus bad . 
Therefore thou never hadst one good thought concerning thyself in thy life . 
But let me go on . 
Why , the Word of God saith that man's ways are crooked ways not good , but perverse . 
It saith they are naturally out of the good way , that they have not known it . 
What are good thoughts concerning God ? CHR . 
Why , how dost thou think in this matter ? IGNOR . 
Why , to be short , I think I must believe in Christ for justification . 
How , then , dost thou say , I believe in Christ ? IGNOR . 
I believe well enough for all that . 
How dost thou believe ? The faith of Ignorance IGNOR . 
I believe that Christ died for sinners , and that I shall be justified before God from the curse , through his gracious acceptance of my obedience to his law . 
Or thus , Christ makes my duties , that are religious , acceptable to his Father , by virtue of his merits and so shall I be justified . 
Let me give an answer to this confession of thy faith . 
Thou believest with a fantastical faith for this faith is nowhere described in the Word . 
Thou believest with a false faith because it taketh justification from the personal righteousness of Christ , and applies it to thy own . 
This faith maketh not Christ a justifier of thy person , but of thy actions and of thy person for thy actions' sake , which is false . 
Ignorance is thy name , and as thy name is , so art thou even this thy answer demonstrateth what I say . 
Ignorant thou art of what justifying righteousness is , and as ignorant how to secure thy soul , through the faith of it , from the heavy wrath of God . 
Ask him if ever he had Christ revealed to him from heaven . 
Ignorance jangles with them IGNOR . 
He speaks reproachfully of what he knows not IGNOR . 
That is your faith , but not mine yet mine , I doubt not , is as good as yours , though I have not in my head so many whimsies as you . 
Give me leave to put in a word . 
The talk broke up IGNOR . 
You go so fast , I cannot keep pace with you . 
Do you go on before I must stay a while behind . 
Remember , man , in time , stoop , do not fear Good counsel taken well , saves therefore hear . 
But if thou yet shalt slight it , thou wilt be The loser , , I'll warrant thee . 
Then Christian addressed thus himself to his fellow CHR . 
Well , come , my good Hopeful , I perceive that thou and I must walk by ourselves again . 
So I saw in my dream that they went on apace before , and Ignorance he came hobbling after . 
Then said Christian to his companion , It pities me much for this poor man , it will certainly go ill with him at last . 
Indeed the Word saith , He hath blinded their eyes , lest they should see , c . 
Nay , do you answer that question yourself , for you are the elder man . 
The good use of fear HOPE . 
I do believe , as you say , that fear tends much to men's good , and to make them right , at their beginning to go on pilgrimage . 
Without all doubt it doth , if it be right for so says the Word , The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom . 
, , Job , Ps . 
How will you describe right fear ? Right fear CHR . 
True or right fear is discovered by three things . 
By its rise it is caused by saving convictions for sin . 
It driveth the soul to lay fast hold of Christ for salvation . 
Well said I believe you have said the truth . 
Are we now almost got past the Enchanted Ground ? CHR . 
Why , art thou weary of this discourse ? HOPE . 
No , verily , but that I would know where we are . 
Why ignorant persons stifle convictions CHR . 
We have not now above two miles further to go thereon . 
But let us return to our matter . 
In general Now the ignorant know not that such convictions as tend to put them in fear are for their good , and therefore they seek to stifle them . 
How do they seek to stifle them ? In particular CHR . 
and , thinking so , they resist them as things that directly tend to their overthrow . 
They presume they ought not to fear and , therefore , in despite of them , wax presumptuously confident . 
They see that those fears tend to take away from them their pitiful old self holiness , and therefore they resist them with all their might . 
I know something of this myself for , before I knew myself , it was so with me . 
Well , we will leave , at this time , our neighbour Ignorance by himself , and fall upon another profitable question . 
With all my heart , but you shall still begin . 
Talk about one Temporary CHR . 
Well then , did you not know , about ten years ago , one Temporary in your parts , who was a forward man in religion then ? Where he dwelt HOPE . 
Know him ! yes , he dwelt in Graceless , a town about two miles off of Honesty , and he dwelt next door to one Turnback . 
He was towardly once CHR . 
Right , he dwelt under the same roof with him . 
Well , that man was much awakened once I believe that then he had some sight of his sins , and of the wages that were due thereto . 
I am of your mind , for , my house not being above three miles from him , he would ofttimes come to me , and that with many tears . 
Truly I pitied the man , and was not altogether without hope of him but one may see , it is not every one that cries , Lord , Lord . 
Now , since we are talking about him , let us a little inquire into the reason of the sudden backsliding of him and such others . 
It may be very profitable , but do you begin . 
Reasons why towardly ones go back HOPE . 
Well , then , there are in my judgment four reasons for it . 
So then it comes to pass , that when their guilt and fear is gone , their desires for heaven and happiness die , and they return to their course again . 
Another reason is , they have slavish fears that do overmaster them I speak now of the fears that they have of men , for the fear of man bringeth a snare . 
the hazard of losing all , or , at least , of bringing themselves into unavoidable and unnecessary troubles , and so they fall in with the world again . 
Guilt , and to meditate terror , are grievous to them . 
You are pretty near the business , for the bottom of all is for want of a change in their mind and will . 
Now I have showed you the reasons of their going back , do you show me the manner thereof . 
How the apostate goes back . 
They draw off their thoughts , all that they may , from the remembrance of God , death , and judgment to come . 
Then they cast off by degrees private duties , as closet prayer , curbing their lusts , watching , sorrow for sin , and the like . 
Then they shun the company of lively and warm Christians . 
After that they grow cold to public duty , as hearing , reading , godly conference , and the like . 
Then they begin to adhere to , and associate themselves with , carnal , loose , and wanton men . 
After this they begin to play with little sins openly . 
And then , being hardened , they show themselves as they are . 
Thus , being launched again into the gulf of misery , unless a miracle of grace prevent it , they everlastingly perish in their own deceivings . 
Yea , here they heard continually the singing of birds , and saw every day the flowers appear on the earth , and heard the voice of the turtle in the land . 
Here they had no want of corn and wine for in this place they met with abundance of what they had sought for in all their pilgrimage . 
Wherefore , here they lay by it a while , crying out , because of their pangs , If ye find my beloved , tell him that I am sick of love . 
So the gardener had them into the vineyards , and bid them refresh themselves with the dainties . 
He also showed them there the King's walks , and the arbours where he delighted to be and here they tarried and slept . 
was so extremely glorious that they could not , as yet , with open face behold it , but through an instrument made for that purpose . 
So I saw , that as I went on , there met them two men , in raiment that shone like gold lso their faces shone as the light . 
These men asked the Pilgrims whence they came and they told them . 
They also asked them where they had lodged , what difficulties and dangers , what comforts and pleasures they had met in the way and they told them . 
Then said the men that met them , You have but two difficulties more to meet with , and then you are in the city . 
Christian then , and his companion , asked the men to go along with them so they told them they would . 
But , said they , you must obtain it by your own faith . 
So I saw in my dream that they went on together , until they came in sight of the gate . 
Death Now , I further saw , that betwixt them and the gate was a river , but there was no bridge to go over the river was very deep . 
Then they asked the men if the waters were all of a depth . 
In the Resurrection of the Righteous . 
Christian's conflict at the hour of death Then said the other , Be of good cheer , my brother , I feel the bottom , and it is good . 
It was also observed that he was troubled with apparitions of hobgoblins and evil spirits , for ever and anon he would intimate so much by words . 
And so have you , said he to Christian . 
They are not in trouble as other men , neither are they plagued like other men . 
Christian delivered from his fears in death Then I saw in my dream , that Christian was as in a muse a while . 
Then they both took courage , and the enemy was after that as still as a stone , until they were gone over . 
Christian therefore presently found ground to stand upon , and so it followed that the rest of the river was but shallow . 
Thus they went along towards the gate . 
They , therefore , went up here with much agility and speed , though the foundation upon which the city was framed was higher than the clouds . 
There , said they , is the Mount Zion , the heavenly Jerusalem , the innumerable company of angels , and the spirits of just men made perfect . 
In that place you must wear crowns of gold , and enjoy the perpetual sight and vision of the Holy One , for there you shall see him as he is . 
There your eyes shall be delighted with seeing , and your ears with hearing the pleasant voice of the Mighty One . 
There you shall enjoy your friends again that are gone thither before you and there you shall with joy receive , even every one that follows into the holy place after you . 
There also shall you be clothed with glory and majesty , and put into an equipage fit to ride out with the King of Glory . 
, Also , when he shall again return to the city , you shall go too , with sound of trumpet , and be ever with him . 
Then the heavenly host gave a great shout , saying , Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb . 
These trumpeters saluted Christian and his fellow with ten thousand welcomes from the world and this they did with shouting , and sound of trumpet . 
Here also they had the city itself in view , and they thought they heard all the bells therein to ring , to welcome them thereto . 
But above all , the warm and joyful thoughts that they had about their own dwelling there , with such company , and that for ever and ever . 
Oh , by what tongue or pen can their glorious joy be expressed ! And thus they came up to the gate . 
The King then commanded to open the gate , That the righteous nation , said he , which keepeth the truth , may enter in . 
There was also that met them with harps and crowns , and gave them to them the harps to praise withal , and the crowns in token of honour . 
There were also of them that had wings , and they answered one another without intermission , saying , Holy , holy , holy is the Lord . 
And after that they shut up the gates which , when I had seen , I wished myself among them . 
Then they asked him for his certificate , that they might go in and show it to the King so he fumbled in his bosom for one , and found none . 
Then said they , Have you none ? But the man answered never a word . 
Then they took him up , and carried him through the air to the door that I saw in the side of the hill , and put him in there . 
Then I saw that there was a way to hell , even from the gates of heaven , as well as from the City of Destruction . 
So I awoke , and behold it was a dream . 
Take heed , also , that thou be not extreme , In playing with the outside of my dream Nor let my figure or similitude Put thee into a laughter or a feud . 
Leave this for boys and fools but as for thee , Do thou the substance of my matter see . 
But if thou shalt cast all away as vain , I know not but 'twill make me dream again . 
