The Project Gutenberg Etext of A PRINCESS OF MARS by Edgar Rice Burroughs CHAPTER I ON THE ARIZONA HILLS I am a very old man how old I do not know . 
Possibly I am a hundred , possibly more but I cannot tell because I have never aged as other men , nor do I remember any childhood . 
So far as I can recollect I have always been a man , a man of about thirty . 
And because of this conviction I have determined to write down the story of the interesting periods of my life and of my death . 
I have never told this story , nor shall mortal man see this manuscript until after I have passed over for eternity . 
My name is John Carter I am better known as Captain Jack Carter of Virginia . 
and a captain's commission in the cavalry arm of an army which no longer existed the servant of a state which had vanished with the hopes of the South . 
I spent nearly a year prospecting in company with another Confederate officer , Captain James K. Powell of Richmond . 
Powell , who was a mining engineer by education , stated that we had uncovered over a million dollars worth of ore in a trifle over three months . 
As Powell was familiar with the country , as well as with the mechanical requirements of mining we determined that it would be best for him to make the trip . 
It was agreed that I was to hold down our claim against the remote possibility of its being jumped by some wandering prospector . 
My last sight of Powell was about three in the afternoon as he entered the shadows of the range on the opposite side of the valley . 
They were the tracks of unshod ponies , three of them , and the ponies had been galloping . 
Possibly I had conjured up impossible dangers , like some nervous old housewife , and when I should catch up with Powell would get a good laugh for my pains . 
I came upon the spot unexpectedly , finding it entirely deserted , with no signs of having been recently occupied as a camp . 
Further speculation was suddenly cut short by the faint report of two shots far ahead of me . 
I knew that Powell would need me now if ever , and I instantly urged my horse to his topmost speed up the narrow and difficult mountain trail . 
I had forged ahead for perhaps a mile or more without hearing further sounds , when the trail suddenly debouched onto a small , open plateau near the summit of the pass . 
I had passed through a narrow , overhanging gorge just before entering suddenly upon this table land , and the sight which met my eyes filled me with consternation and dismay . 
The little stretch of level land was white with Indian tepees , and there were probably half a thousand red warriors clustered around some object near the center of the camp . 
My mind is evidently so constituted that I am subconsciously forced into the path of duty without recourse to tiresome mental processes . 
However that may be , I have never regretted that cowardice is not optional with me . 
The view which their hurried routing disclosed filled me with apprehension and with rage . 
Under the clear rays of the Arizona moon lay Powell , his body fairly bristling with the hostile arrows of the braves . 
Riding close to him I reached down from the saddle , and grasping his cartridge belt drew him up across the withers of my mount . 
The Indians had by this time discovered that I was alone and I was pursued with imprecations , arrows , and rifle balls . 
It is probable , however , that to this fact I owe my life and the remarkable experiences and adventures which befell me during the following ten years . 
My first knowledge that I was on the wrong trail came when I heard the yells of the pursuing savages suddenly grow fainter and fainter far off to my left . 
I drew rein on a little level promontory overlooking the trail below and to my left , and saw the party of pursuing savages disappearing around the point of a neighboring peak . 
I had gone but a short distance further when what seemed to be an excellent trail opened up around the face of a high cliff . 
The trail was level and quite broad and led upward and in the general direction I wished to go . 
The cliff arose for several hundred feet on my right , and on my left was an equal and nearly perpendicular drop to the bottom of a rocky ravine . 
I had followed this trail for perhaps a hundred yards when a sharp turn to the right brought me to the mouth of a large cave . 
The opening was about four feet in height and three to four feet wide , and at this opening the trail ended . 
It was now morning , and , with the customary lack of dawn which is a startling characteristic of Arizona , it had become daylight almost without warning . 
Dismounting , I laid Powell upon the ground , but the most painstaking examination failed to reveal the faintest spark of life . 
Leaving Powell's body where it lay on the ledge I crept into the cave to reconnoiter . 
The back of the cave was so lost in dense shadow that I could not distinguish whether there were openings into other apartments or not . 
I felt comparatively safe in my present location as I knew that one man could defend the trail to the cave against an army . 
With an effort I started toward the opening of the cave only to reel drunkenly against a side wall , and from there slip prone upon the floor . 
I attempted to spring to my feet but was horrified to discover that my muscles refused to respond to my will . 
I was now thoroughly awake , but as unable to move a muscle as though turned to stone . 
It was then , for the first time , that I noticed a slight vapor filling the cave . 
It was extremely tenuous and only noticeable against the opening which led to daylight . 
The noise of the approaching horses had ceased , and I judged the Indians were creeping stealthily upon me along the little ledge which led to my living tomb . 
That he could see me in the dim light of the cave I was sure for the early morning sun was falling full upon me through the opening . 
The fellow , instead of approaching , merely stood and stared his eyes bulging and his jaw dropped . 
And then another savage face appeared , and a third and fourth and fifth , craning their necks over the shoulders of their fellows whom they could not pass upon the narrow ledge . 
Each face was the picture of awe and fear , but for what reason I did not know , nor did I learn until ten years later . 
That there were still other braves behind those who regarded me was apparent from the fact that the leaders passed back whispered word to those behind them . 
So frantic were their efforts to escape from the unseen thing behind me that one of the braves was hurled headlong from the cliff to the rocks below . 
Their wild cries echoed in the canyon for a short time , and then all was still once more . 
I could but vaguely conjecture the cause of my paralysis , and my only hope lay in that it might pass off as suddenly as it had fallen upon me . 
The shock to my already overstrained nervous system was terrible in the extreme , and with a superhuman effort I strove to break my awful bonds . 
The transition had been so sudden and so unexpected that it left me for a moment forgetful of aught else than my strange metamorphosis . 
Again was I suddenly recalled to my immediate surroundings by a repetition of the weird moan from the depths of the cave . 
Naked and unarmed as I was , I had no desire to face the unseen thing which menaced me . 
My revolvers were strapped to my lifeless body which , for some unfathomable reason , I could not bring myself to touch . 
My carbine was in its boot , strapped to my saddle , and as my horse had wandered off I was left without means of defense . 
Unable longer to resist the temptation to escape this horrible place I leaped quickly through the opening into the starlight of a clear Arizona night . 
The crisp , fresh mountain air outside the cave acted as an immediate tonic and I felt new life and new courage coursing through me . 
Pausing upon the brink of the ledge I upbraided myself for what now seemed to me wholly unwarranted apprehension . 
I decided to investigate , but first I lifted my head to fill my lungs with the pure , invigorating night air of the mountains . 
As I stood thus meditating , I turned my gaze from the landscape to the heavens where the myriad stars formed a gorgeous and fitting canopy for the wonders of the earthly scene . 
My attention was quickly riveted by a large red star close to the distant horizon . 
There was an instant of extreme cold and utter darkness . 
CHAPTER III MY ADVENT ON MARS I opened my eyes upon a strange and weird landscape . 
I knew that I was on Mars not once did I question either my sanity or my wakefulness . 
I was not asleep , no need for pinching here my inner consciousness told me as plainly that I was upon Mars as your conscious mind tells you that you are upon Earth . 
You do not question the fact neither did I. I found myself lying prone upon a bed of yellowish , mosslike vegetation which stretched around me in all directions for interminable miles . 
I seemed to be lying in a deep , circular basin , along the outer verge of which I could distinguish the irregularities of low hills . 
No water , and no other vegetation than the moss was in evidence , and as I was somewhat thirsty I determined to do a little exploring . 
I alighted softly upon the ground , however , without appreciable shock or jar . 
Now commenced a series of evolutions which even then seemed ludicrous in the extreme . 
I found that I must learn to walk all over again , as the muscular exertion which carried me easily and safely upon Earth played strange antics with me upon Mars . 
I did fairly well at this and in a few moments had reached the low , encircling wall of the enclosure . 
The roof of the enclosure was of solid glass about four or five inches in thickness , and beneath this were several hundred large eggs , perfectly round and snowy white . 
The eggs were nearly uniform in size being about two and one half feet in diameter . 
Five or six had already hatched and the grotesque caricatures which sat blinking in the sunlight were enough to cause me to doubt my sanity . 
The ears , which were slightly above the eyes and closer together , were small , cup shaped antennae , protruding not more than an inch on these young specimens . 
Their noses were but longitudinal slits in the center of their faces , midway between their mouths and ears . 
There was no hair on their bodies , which were of a very light yellowish green color . 
In the adults , as I was to learn quite soon , this color deepens to an olive green and is darker in the male than in the female . 
Further , the heads of the adults are not so out of proportion to their bodies as in the case of the young . 
The iris of the eyes is blood red , as in Albinos , while the pupil is dark . 
The eyeball itself is very white , as are the teeth . 
The whiteness of the teeth is not that of ivory , but of the snowiest and most gleaming of china . 
Against the dark background of their olive skins their tusks stand out in a most striking manner , making these weapons present a singularly formidable appearance . 
Most of these details I noted later , for I was given but little time to speculate on the wonders of my new discovery . 
It was the rattling of the accouterments of the foremost warrior which warned me . 
On such a little thing my life hung that I often marvel that I escaped so easily . 
But how puny and harmless they now looked beside this huge and terrific incarnation of hate , of vengeance and of death . 
The man himself , for such I may call him , was fully fifteen feet in height and , on Earth , would have weighed some four hundred pounds . 
Like its master , it was entirely devoid of hair , but was of a dark slate color and exceeding smooth and glossy . 
Its belly was white , and its legs shaded from the slate of its shoulders and hips to a vivid yellow at the feet . 
The highest type of man and one other animal , the only mammal existing on Mars , alone have well formed nails , and there are absolutely no hoofed animals in existence there . 
This picture , or rather materialized nightmare , which I have described at length , made but one terrible and swift impression on me as I turned to meet it . 
Consequently I gave a very earthly and at the same time superhuman leap to reach the top of the Martian incubator , for such I had determined it must be . 
I alighted upon the soft moss easily and without mishap , and turning saw my enemies lined up along the further wall . 
Some were surveying me with expressions which I afterward discovered marked extreme astonishment , and the others were evidently satisfying themselves that I had not molested their young . 
They were conversing together in low tones , and gesticulating and pointing toward me . 
While the Martians are immense , their bones are very large and they are muscled only in proportion to the gravitation which they must overcome . 
I noted that each was armed with several other weapons in addition to the huge spear which I have described . 
The Martians , after conversing for a short time , turned and rode away in the direction from which they had come , leaving one of their number alone by the enclosure . 
When they had covered perhaps two hundred yards they halted , and turning their mounts toward us sat watching the warrior by the enclosure . 
He then stopped as though waiting for my reply , pricking up his antennae like ears and cocking his strange looking eyes still further toward me . 
As the silence became painful I concluded to hazard a little conversation on my own part , as I had guessed that he was making overtures of peace . 
Of course I might have been a babbling brook for all the intelligence my speech carried to him , but he understood the action with which I immediately followed my words . 
Stretching my hand toward him , I advanced and took the armlet from his open palm , clasping it about my arm above the elbow smiled at him and stood waiting . 
His wide mouth spread into an answering smile , and locking one of his intermediary arms in mine we turned and walked back toward his mount . 
At the same time he motioned his followers to advance . 
They started toward us on a wild run , but were checked by a signal from him . 
Evidently he feared that were I to be really frightened again I might jump entirely out of the landscape . 
He exchanged a few words with his men , motioned to me that I would ride behind one of them , and then mounted his own animal . 
The entire cavalcade then turned and galloped away toward the range of hills in the distance . 
CHAPTER IV A PRISONER We had gone perhaps ten miles when the ground began to rise very rapidly . 
With the exception of their ornaments all were naked . 
Their bodies were smaller and lighter in color , and their fingers and toes bore the rudiments of nails , which were entirely lacking among the males . 
The adult females ranged in height from ten to twelve feet . 
The children were light in color , even lighter than the women , and all looked precisely alike to me , except that some were taller than others older , I presumed . 
Only about one Martian in a thousand dies of sickness or disease , and possibly about twenty take the voluntary pilgrimage . 
As we neared the plaza and my presence was discovered we were immediately surrounded by hundreds of the creatures who seemed anxious to pluck me from my seat behind my guard . 
The building was low , but covered an enormous area . 
It was constructed of gleaming white marble inlaid with gold and brilliant stones which sparkled and scintillated in the sunlight . 
The main entrance was some hundred feet in width and projected from the building proper to form a huge canopy above the entrance hall . 
There was no stairway , but a gentle incline to the first floor of the building opened into an enormous chamber encircled by galleries . 
On the floor of this chamber , which was dotted with highly carved wooden desks and chairs , were assembled about forty or fifty male Martians around the steps of a rostrum . 
On the platform proper squatted an enormous warrior heavily loaded with metal ornaments , gay colored feathers and beautifully wrought leather trappings ingeniously set with precious stones . 
From his shoulders depended a short cape of white fur lined with brilliant scarlet silk . 
Our party had halted at the entrance to the building , and at a sign from the leader I had been lowered to the ground . 
Again locking his arm in mine , we had proceeded into the audience chamber . 
There were few formalities observed in approaching the Martian chieftain . 
My captor merely strode up to the rostrum , the others making way for him as he advanced . 
The chieftain rose to his feet and uttered the name of my escort who , in turn , halted and repeated the name of the ruler followed by his title . 
At the time , this ceremony and the words they uttered meant nothing to me , but later I came to know that this was the customary greeting between green Martians . 
My captor , whose name was Tars Tarkas , was virtually the vice chieftain of the community , and a man of great ability as a statesman and warrior . 
He evidently explained briefly the incidents connected with his expedition , including my capture , and when he had concluded the chieftain addressed me at some length . 
But I was to learn that the Martian smile is merely perfunctory , and that the Martian laugh is a thing to cause strong men to blanch in horror . 
The ideas of humor among the green men of Mars are widely at variance with our conceptions of incitants to merriment . 
The assembled warriors and chieftains examined me closely , feeling my muscles and the texture of my skin . 
The principal chieftain then evidently signified a desire to see me perform , and , motioning me to follow , he started with Tars Tarkas for the open plaza . 
My fears were groundless , however , as the other Martians , at first struck dumb with wonderment , finally broke into wild peals of laughter and applause . 
The fellow whom I had struck lay where he had fallen , nor did any of his mates approach him . 
Tars Tarkas advanced toward me , holding out one of his arms , and we thus proceeded to the plaza without further mishap . 
I did not , of course , know the reason for which we had come to the open , but I was not long in being enlightened . 
I then returned by easy jumps of twenty five or thirty feet to the little group of warriors . 
I therefore ignored the repeated commands to sak , and each time they were made I motioned to my mouth and rubbed my stomach . 
Tars Tarkas and the chief exchanged a few words , and the former , calling to a young female among the throng , gave her some instructions and motioned me to accompany her . 
I grasped her proffered arm and together we crossed the plaza toward a large building on the far side . 
My fair companion was about eight feet tall , having just arrived at maturity , but not yet to her full height . 
She was of a light olive green color , with a smooth , glossy hide . 
Her name , as I afterward learned , was Sola , and she belonged to the retinue of Tars Tarkas . 
In response to her call I obtained my first sight of a new Martian wonder . 
It waddled in on its ten short legs , and squatted down before the girl like an obedient puppy . 
CHAPTER V I ELUDE MY WATCH DOG Sola stared into the brute's wicked looking eyes , muttered a word or two of command , pointed to me , and left the chamber . 
While Sola was away I took occasion to examine more minutely the room in which I found myself captive . 
These she placed on the floor beside me , and seating herself a short ways off regarded me intently . 
The food consisted of about a pound of some solid substance of the consistency of cheese and almost tasteless , while the liquid was apparently milk from some animal . 
It was not unpleasant to the taste , though slightly acid , and I learned in a short time to prize it very highly . 
A single plant of this species will give eight or ten quarts of milk per day . 
After I had eaten I was greatly invigorated , but feeling the need of rest I stretched out upon the silks and was soon asleep . 
I must have slept several hours , as it was dark when I awoke , and I was very cold . 
I noticed that someone had thrown a fur over me , but it had become partially dislodged and in the darkness I could not see to replace it . 
Suddenly a hand reached out and pulled the fur over me , shortly afterwards adding another to my covering . 
I presumed that my watchful guardian was Sola , nor was I wrong . 
The further moon revolves about Mars in something over thirty and one quarter hours , and with her sister satellite makes a nocturnal Martian scene one of splendid and weird grandeur . 
After Sola had replenished my coverings I again slept , nor did I awaken until daylight . 
The other occupants of the room , five in number , were all females , and they were still sleeping , piled high with a motley array of silks and furs . 
I have ever been prone to seek adventure and to investigate and experiment where wiser men would have left well enough alone . 
It therefore now occurred to me that the surest way of learning the exact attitude of this beast toward me would be to attempt to leave the room . 
Furthermore , I could see from the shortness of his legs that the brute himself was no jumper and probably no runner . 
As I neared the brute he backed cautiously away from me , and when I had reached the open he moved to one side to let me pass . 
He then fell in behind me and followed about ten paces in my rear as I made my way along the deserted street . 
Thinking to have some amusement at his expense , I rushed toward him , and when almost upon him sprang into the air , alighting far beyond him and away from the city . 
He wheeled instantly and charged me with the most appalling speed I had ever beheld . 
I had thought his short legs a bar to swiftness , but had he been coursing with greyhounds the latter would have appeared as though asleep on a door mat . 
Grasping the sill I pulled myself up to a sitting posture without looking into the building , and gazed down at the baffled animal beneath me . 
Here I was thrown upon my back , and beheld standing over me a colossal ape like creature , white and hairless except for an enormous shock of bristly hair upon its head . 
This other , which was evidently its mate , soon came toward us , bearing a mighty stone cudgel with which it evidently intended to brain me . 
Altogether they were not unlovely when viewed in comparison with the green Martians . 
The cudgel was swinging in the arc which ended upon my upturned face when a bolt of myriad legged horror hurled itself through the doorway full upon the breast of my executioner . 
As quickly as possible I gained my feet and backing against the wall I witnessed such a battle as it is vouchsafed few beings to see . 
The strength , agility , and blind ferocity of these two creatures is approached by nothing known to earthly man . 
In accomplishing this the ape was tearing away the entire front of its breast , which was held in the vise like grip of the powerful jaws . 
Back and forth upon the floor they rolled , neither one emitting a sound of fear or pain . 
Presently I saw the great eyes of my beast bulging completely from their sockets and blood flowing from its nostrils . 
That he was weakening perceptibly was evident , but so also was the ape , whose struggles were growing momentarily less . 
Scarcely had the blow descended when I was confronted with a new danger . 
The ape's mate , recovered from its first shock of terror , had returned to the scene of the encounter by way of the interior of the building . 
He lay gasping upon the floor of the chamber , his great eyes fastened upon me in what seemed a pitiful appeal for protection . 
Without more ado , therefore , I turned to meet the charge of the infuriated bull ape . 
He was now too close upon me for the cudgel to prove of any effective assistance , so I merely threw it as heavily as I could at his advancing bulk . 
The effect was marvelous , for , as I lightly sidestepped , after delivering the second blow , he reeled and fell upon the floor doubled up with pain and gasping for wind . 
Leaping over his prostrate body , I seized the cudgel and finished the monster before he could regain his feet . 
As my eyes met theirs I was , for the second time , the recipient of their zealously guarded applause . 
My absence had been noted by Sola on her awakening , and she had quickly informed Tars Tarkas , who had set out immediately with a handful of warriors to search for me . 
As they had approached the limits of the city they had witnessed the actions of the bull ape as he bolted into the building , frothing with rage . 
They had followed immediately behind him , thinking it barely possible that his actions might prove a clew to my whereabouts and had witnessed my short but decisive battle with him . 
This encounter , together with my set to with the Martian warrior on the previous day and my feats of jumping placed me upon a high pinnacle in their regard . 
Satisfying herself that I had come off unscathed she smiled quietly , and , taking my hand , started toward the door of the chamber . 
Tars Tarkas and the other warriors had entered and were standing over the now rapidly reviving brute which had saved my life , and whose life I , in turn , had rescued . 
There seemed something menacing in their attitude toward my beast , and I hesitated to leave until I had learned the outcome . 
The bullet striking the wooden casing of the window exploded , blowing a hole completely through the wood and masonry . 
I then knelt down beside the fearsome looking thing , and raising it to its feet motioned for it to follow me . 
The looks of surprise which my actions elicited from the Martians were ludicrous they could not understand , except in a feeble and childish way , such attributes as gratitude and compassion . 
The chariots themselves were large , commodious , and gorgeously decorated . 
Like the animals upon which the warriors were mounted , the heavier draft animals wore neither bit nor bridle , but were guided entirely by telepathic means . 
This power is wonderfully developed in all Martians , and accounts largely for the simplicity of their language and the relatively few spoken words exchanged even in long conversations . 
I was soon appraised of the subject of their conversation , as , calling to Sola , Tars Tarkas signed for her to send me to him . 
I had by this time mastered the intricacies of walking under Martian conditions , and quickly responding to his command I advanced to the side of the incubator where the warriors stood . 
As I reached their side a glance showed me that all but a very few eggs had hatched , the incubator being fairly alive with the hideous little devils . 
They ranged in height from three to four feet , and were moving restlessly about the enclosure as though searching for food . 
As I came to a halt before him , Tars Tarkas pointed over the incubator and said , Sak . 
As I returned , Lorquas Ptomel grunted something at me , and turning to his warriors gave a few words of command relative to the incubator . 
Coming from eggs in which they have lain for five years , the period of incubation , they step forth into the world perfectly developed except in size . 
But this counts for little among the green Martians , as parental and filial love is as unknown to them as it is common among us . 
I believe this horrible system which has been carried on for ages is the direct cause of the loss of all the finer feelings and higher humanitarian instincts among these poor creatures . 
By careful selection they rear only the hardiest specimens of each species , and with almost supernatural foresight they regulate the birth rate to merely offset the loss by death . 
Every year these eggs are carefully examined by a council of twenty chieftains , and all but about one hundred of the most perfect are destroyed out of each yearly supply . 
At the end of five years about five hundred almost perfect eggs have been chosen from the thousands brought forth . 
These are then placed in the almost air tight incubators to be hatched by the sun's rays after a period of another five years . 
The hatching which we had witnessed today was a fairly representative event of its kind , all but about one per cent of the eggs hatching in two days . 
If the remaining eggs ever hatched we knew nothing of the fate of the little Martians . 
The incubators are built in remote fastnesses , where there is little or no likelihood of their being discovered by other tribes . 
The result of such a catastrophe would mean no children in the community for another five years . 
I was later to witness the results of the discovery of an alien incubator . 
The community of which the green Martians with whom my lot was cast formed a part was composed of some thirty thousand souls . 
They roamed an enormous tract of arid and semi arid land between forty and eighty degrees south latitude , and bounded on the east and west by two large fertile tracts . 
Their headquarters lay in the southwest corner of this district , near the crossing of two of the so called Martian canals . 
After our return to the dead city I passed several days in comparative idleness . 
On the day following our return all the warriors had ridden forth early in the morning and had not returned until just before darkness fell . 
The vaults which hid the eggs until they were ready for the incubator were located many miles south of the incubator , and would be visited yearly by the council of twenty chieftains . 
The Martian language , as I have said , is extremely simple , and in a week I could make all my wants known and understand nearly everything that was said to me . 
Likewise , under Sola's tutelage , I developed my telepathic powers so that I shortly could sense practically everything that went on around me . 
At first this vexed me , but later I was very glad of it , as it gave me an undoubted advantage over the Martians . 
A huge craft , long , low , and gray painted , swung slowly over the crest of the nearest hill . 
Following it came another , and another , and another , until twenty of them , swinging low above the ground , sailed slowly and majestically toward us . 
I could see figures crowding the forward decks and upper works of the air craft . 
Our own fire never diminished , and I doubt if twenty five per cent of our shots went wild . 
It seems that each green warrior has certain objective points for his fire under relatively identical circumstances of warfare . 
Twenty minutes after the first volley the great fleet swung trailing off in the direction from which it had first appeared . 
Several of the craft were limping perceptibly , and seemed but barely under the control of their depleted crews . 
Their fire had ceased entirely and all their energies seemed focused upon escape . 
Our warriors then rushed up to the roofs of the buildings which we occupied and followed the retreating armada with a continuous fusillade of deadly fire . 
One by one , however , the ships managed to dip below the crests of the outlying hills until only one barely moving craft was in sight . 
This had received the brunt of our fire and seemed to be entirely unmanned , as not a moving figure was visible upon her decks . 
Slowly she swung from her course , circling back toward us in an erratic and pitiful manner . 
From my vantage point in the window I could see the bodies of her crew strewn about , although I could not make out what manner of creatures they might be . 
Not a sign of life was manifest upon her as she drifted slowly with the light breeze in a southeasterly direction . 
After making her fast , they swarmed the sides and searched the vessel from stem to stern . 
I could see them examining the dead sailors , evidently for signs of life , and presently a party of them appeared from below dragging a little figure among them . 
They removed their prisoner to the ground and then commenced a systematic rifling of the vessel . 
After the last load had been removed the warriors made lines fast to the craft and towed her far out into the valley in a southwesterly direction . 
This operation concluded , they hastily clambered over her sides , sliding down the guy ropes to the ground . 
The last warrior to leave the deck turned and threw something back upon the vessel , waiting an instant to note the outcome of his act . 
As a faint spurt of flame rose from the point where the missile struck he swung over the side and was quickly upon the ground . 
Slowly she drifted to the southeast , rising higher and higher as the flames ate away her wooden parts and diminished the weight upon her . 
Ascending to the roof of the building I watched her for hours , until finally she was lost in the dim vistas of the distance . 
Much depressed , and , to me , unaccountably so , I slowly descended to the street . 
And the sight which met my eyes was that of a slender , girlish figure , similar in every detail to the earthly women of my past life . 
Her skin was of a light reddish copper color , against which the crimson glow of her cheeks and the ruby of her beautifully molded lips shone with a strangely enhancing effect . 
And then she was dragged out of my sight into the depths of the deserted edifice . 
What her thoughts were I did not know , for as yet I had learned but little of the Martian tongue enough only to suffice for my daily needs . 
As I reached the doorway of our building a strange surprise awaited me . 
A warrior approached bearing the arms , ornaments , and full accouterments of his kind . 
These he presented to me with a few unintelligible words , and a bearing at once respectful and menacing . 
From then on Sola instructed me in the mysteries of the various weapons , and with the Martian young I spent several hours each day practicing upon the plaza . 
I was not yet proficient with all the weapons , but my great familiarity with similar earthly weapons made me an unusually apt pupil , and I progressed in a very satisfactory manner . 
They make the powder , the cartridges , the firearms in fact everything of value is produced by the females . 
In time of actual warfare they form a part of the reserves , and when the necessity arises fight with even greater intelligence and ferocity than the men . 
The men are trained in the higher branches of the art of war in strategy and the maneuvering of large bodies of troops . 
They make the laws as they are needed a new law for each emergency . 
They are unfettered by precedent in the administration of justice . 
In one respect at least the Martians are a happy people they have no lawyers . 
On the night following the prisoner's visit to the audience chamber the conversation finally fell upon this subject , and I was all ears on the instant . 
Sarkoja , one of the older women who shared our domicile , had been present at the audience as one of the captive's guards , and it was toward her the question turned . 
What will be the manner of her going out ? inquired Sola . 
She is very small and very beautiful I had hoped that they would hold her for ransom . 
Sarkoja and the other women grunted angrily at this evidence of weakness on the part of Sola . 
In our day we have progressed to a point where such sentiments mark weakness and atavism . 
I see nothing wrong with my expression of interest in this red woman , retorted Sola . 
She has never harmed us , nor would she should we have fallen into her hands . 
It is only the men of her kind who war upon us , and I have ever thought that their attitude toward us is but the reflection of ours toward them . 
Say what you please to Tars Tarkas , he can mete out no worse fate to me than a continuation of the horrible existence we are forced to lead in this life . 
CHAPTER X CHAMPION AND CHIEF Early the next morning I was astir . 
Considerable freedom was allowed me , as Sola had informed me that so long as I did not attempt to leave the city I was free to go and come as I pleased . 
His nature was such , she said , that he would bring me back into the city dead or alive should I persist in opposing him preferably dead , she added . 
On this morning I had chosen a new street to explore when suddenly I found myself at the limits of the city . 
Before me were low hills pierced by narrow and inviting ravines . 
It also occurred to me that this would prove an excellent opportunity to test the qualities of Woola . 
As I approached the boundary line Woola ran anxiously before me , and thrust his body against my legs . 
His expression was pleading rather than ferocious , nor did he bare his great tusks or utter his fearful guttural warnings . 
If you have ever seen a collie smile you may have some idea of Woola's facial distortion . 
There was no further question of authority between us Woola was my devoted slave from that moment hence , and I his only and undisputed master . 
My walk to the hills occupied but a few minutes , and I found nothing of particular interest to reward me . 
My morning's walk had been large with importance to me for it had resulted in a perfect understanding with Woola , upon whom Tars Tarkas relied for my safe keeping . 
I now knew that while theoretically a prisoner I was virtually free , and I hastened to regain the city limits before the defection of Woola could be discovered by his erstwhile masters . 
On regaining the plaza I had my third glimpse of the captive girl . 
She was standing with her guards before the entrance to the audience chamber , and as I approached she gave me one haughty glance and turned her back full upon me . 
Sola , let me add , was an exception I never saw her perform a cruel or uncouth act , or fail in uniform kindliness and good nature . 
She was indeed , as her fellow Martian had said of her , an atavism a dear and precious reversion to a former type of loved and loving ancestor . 
Seeing that the prisoner seemed the center of attraction I halted to view the proceedings . 
I had not long to wait for presently Lorquas Ptomel and his retinue of chieftains approached the building and , signing the guards to follow with the prisoner entered the audience chamber . 
The council squatted upon the steps of the rostrum , while below them stood the prisoner and her two guards . 
Her attitude toward the captive was most harsh and brutal . 
When she held her , she sunk her rudimentary nails into the poor girl's flesh , or twisted her arm in a most painful manner . 
When it was necessary to move from one spot to another she either jerked her roughly , or pushed her headlong before her . 
As Lorquas Ptomel raised his eyes to address the prisoner they fell on me and he turned to Tars Tarkas with a word , and gesture of impatience . 
Tars Tarkas made some reply which I could not catch , but which caused Lorquas Ptomel to smile after which they paid no further attention to me . 
What is your name ? asked Lorquas Ptomel , addressing the prisoner . 
Dejah Thoris , daughter of Mors Kajak of Helium . 
And the nature of your expedition ? he continued . 
We were unprepared for battle , she continued , as we were on a peaceful mission , as our banners and the colors of our craft denoted . 
Owning everything in common , even to your women and children , has resulted in your owning nothing in common . 
You hate each other as you hate all else except yourselves . 
Come back to the ways of our common ancestors , come back to the light of kindliness and fellowship . 
The way is open to you , you will find the hands of the red men stretched out to aid you . 
Together we may do still more to regenerate our dying planet . 
The grand daughter of the greatest and mightiest of the red jeddaks has asked you . 
Will you come ? Lorquas Ptomel and the warriors sat looking silently and intently at the young woman for several moments after she had ceased speaking . 
I saw Tars Tarkas rise to speak , and on his face was such an expression as I had never seen upon the countenance of a green Martian warrior . 
It was portentous however that they did not laugh aloud , for the brute's act constituted a side splitting witticism according to the ethics which rule green Martian humor . 
That I have taken moments to write down a part of what occurred as that blow fell does not signify that I remained inactive for any such length of time . 
Scarcely had his hideous laugh rang out but once , when I was upon him . 
The brute was twelve feet in height and armed to the teeth , but I believe that I could have accounted for the whole roomful in the terrific intensity of my rage . 
In fact he could do nothing but make a wild and futile attempt to dislodge me . 
Dejah Thoris had raised herself upon one elbow and was watching the battle with wide , staring eyes . 
When I had regained my feet I raised her in my arms and bore her to one of the benches at the side of the room . 
Again no Martian interfered with me , and tearing a piece of silk from my cape I endeavored to staunch the flow of blood from her nostrils . 
Suffice it , for the present , that I am your friend , and , so far as our captors will permit , your protector and your servant . 
In truth , I was a Martian chieftain , and this I learned later was the cause of my great freedom and my toleration in the audience chamber . 
Finally he addressed me You speak the tongue of Barsoom quite readily for one who was deaf and dumb to us a few short days ago . 
She has done well , he answered , but your education in other respects needs considerable polish . 
No , you are wrong . 
But one thing can save you now , he continued . 
Until we reach the headquarters of Tal Hajus it is the will of Lorquas Ptomel that you be accorded the respect your acts have earned you . 
I hear you , Tars Tarkas , I answered . 
Tars Tarkas himself seemed pleased with my reply , but his only comment was more or less enigmatical And I think I know Tal Hajus , Jeddak of Thark . 
Was I not now a chieftain also ! Well , then , I would assume the responsibilities of one . 
The poor child shrank against me and I felt her two little hands fold tightly over my arm . 
So Sarkoja merely gave us an ugly look and departed to hatch up deviltries against us . 
Sola glanced at the accouterments which were carried in my hand and slung across my shoulder . 
You are a great chieftain now , John Carter , she said , and I must do your bidding , though indeed I am glad to do it under any circumstances . 
You are eleventh , there are but ten chieftains in this community who rank you in prowess . 
And if I should kill Lorquas Ptomel ? I asked . 
I laughed , and changed the subject . 
I had no particular desire to kill Lorquas Ptomel , and less to be a jed among the Tharks . 
I accompanied Sola and Dejah Thoris in a search for new quarters , which we found in a building nearer the audience chamber and of far more pretentious architecture than our former habitation . 
We also found in this building real sleeping apartments with ancient beds of highly wrought metal swinging from enormous gold chains depending from the marble ceilings . 
The decoration of the walls was most elaborate , and , unlike the frescoes in the other buildings I had examined , portrayed many human figures in the compositions . 
These were of people like myself , and of a much lighter color than Dejah Thoris . 
They were clad in graceful , flowing robes , highly ornamented with metal and jewels , and their luxuriant hair was of a beautiful golden and reddish bronze . 
The men were beardless and only a few wore arms . 
The scenes depicted for the most part , a fair skinned , fair haired people at play . 
I then dispatched Sola to bring the bedding and such food and utensils as she might need , telling her that I would guard Dejah Thoris until her return . 
As Sola departed Dejah Thoris turned to me with a faint smile . 
In the name of my first ancestor , then , she continued , where may you be from ? You are like unto my people , and yet so unlike . 
You speak my language , and yet I heard you tell Tars Tarkas that you had but learned it recently . 
All Barsoomians speak the same tongue from the ice clad south to the ice clad north , though their written languages differ . 
Do you believe me ? And then it struck me suddenly that I was very anxious that she should believe me . 
It was not that I feared the results which would follow a general belief that I had returned from the Barsoomian heaven or hell , or whatever it was . 
She gazed at me with troubled eyes , long and questioningly . 
That it was difficult to believe my statement I well knew , nor could I hope that she would do so however much I craved her confidence and respect . 
I would much rather not have told her anything of my antecedents , but no man could look into the depth of those eyes and refuse her slightest behest . 
Finally she smiled , and , rising , said I shall have to believe even though I cannot understand . 
As a matter of fact it was about the only kind of logic that could be brought to bear upon my problem . 
We fell into a general conversation then , asking and answering many questions on each side . 
She was curious to learn of the customs of my people and displayed a remarkable knowledge of events on Earth . 
These pictures are so perfect in detail that , when photographed and enlarged , objects no greater than a blade of grass may be distinctly recognized . 
I afterward , in Helium , saw many of these pictures , as well as the instruments which produced them . 
The fact that you wore no ornaments is a strong proof of your un Barsoomian origin , while the absence of grotesque coverings might cause a doubt as to your earthliness . 
I then narrated the details of my departure from the Earth , explaining that my body there lay fully clothed in all the , to her , strange garments of mundane dwellers . 
At this point Sola returned with our meager belongings and her young Martian protege , who , of course , would have to share the quarters with them . 
Sola asked us if we had had a visitor during her absence , and seemed much surprised when we answered in the negative . 
It seemed that as she had mounted the approach to the upper floors where our quarters were located , she had met Sarkoja descending . 
Dejah Thoris and I then fell to examining the architecture and decorations of the beautiful chambers of the building we were occupying . 
She told me that these people had presumably flourished over a hundred thousand years before . 
Ages of close relationship and intermarrying had resulted in the race of red men , of which Dejah Thoris was a fair and beautiful daughter . 
Dejah Thoris related many interesting facts and legends concerning this lost race of noble and kindly people . 
She said that the city in which we were camping was supposed to have been a center of commerce and culture known as Korad . 
It had been built upon a beautiful , natural harbor , landlocked by magnificent hills . 
We had been so engrossed in exploration of the building and in our conversation that it was late in the afternoon before we realized it . 
We were brought back to a realization of our present conditions by a messenger bearing a summons from Lorquas Ptomel directing me to appear before him forthwith . 
Be that as it may , you are not one of us you owe us no allegiance . 
As a matter of justice I must warn you that we only await one of these two excuses for ridding ourselves of so great a responsibility . 
The safe delivery of the red girl to Tal Hajus is of the greatest importance . 
Not in a thousand years have the Tharks made such a capture she is the granddaughter of the greatest of the red jeddaks , who is also our bitterest enemy . 
The red girl told us that we were without the softer sentiments of humanity , but we are a just and truthful race . 
Turning , I left the audience chamber . 
Sarkoja was at this time Tars Tarkas' oldest and most trusted female . 
As such she was a mighty power behind the throne , for no warrior had the confidence of Lorquas Ptomel to such an extent as did his ablest lieutenant , Tars Tarkas . 
However , instead of putting thoughts of possible escape from my mind , my audience with Lorquas Ptomel only served to center my every faculty on this subject . 
As described by Sola , this monster was the exaggerated personification of all the ages of cruelty , ferocity , and brutality from which he had descended . 
The thought that the divine Dejah Thoris might fall into the clutches of such an abysmal atavism started the cold sweat upon me . 
As I wandered about the plaza lost in my gloomy forebodings Tars Tarkas approached me on his way from the audience chamber . 
His demeanor toward me was unchanged , and he greeted me as though we had not just parted a few moments before . 
Where are your quarters , John Carter ? he asked . 
I have selected none , I replied . 
It seemed best that I quartered either by myself or among the other warriors , and I was awaiting an opportunity to ask your advice . 
As you know , and I smiled , I am not yet familiar with all the customs of the Tharks . 
Come with me , he directed , and together we moved off across the plaza to a building which I was glad to see adjoined that occupied by Sola and her charges . 
I understand , he continued , that you have given up your woman to the red prisoner . 
He promised to do so , and departed . 
Left alone , I ascended the winding corridor to the upper floors in search of suitable quarters . 
The beauties of the other buildings were repeated in this , and , as usual , I was soon lost in a tour of investigation and discovery . 
Adjoining my sleeping apartment were baths , dressing rooms , and other sleeping and living apartments , in all some ten rooms on this floor . 
All this , it seemed , had been the property of the two chieftains I had slain , and now , by the customs of the Tharks , it had become mine . 
On the second trip they were accompanied by ten or fifteen other women and youths , who , it seemed , formed the retinues of the two chieftains . 
They were not their families , nor their wives , nor their servants the relationship was peculiar , and so unlike anything known to us that it is most difficult to describe . 
All property among the green Martians is owned in common by the community , except the personal weapons , ornaments and sleeping silks and furs of the individuals . 
These alone can one claim undisputed right to , nor may he accumulate more of these than are required for his actual needs . 
The surplus he holds merely as custodian , and it is passed on to the younger members of the community as necessity demands . 
His women are in no sense wives . 
The green Martians use no word corresponding in meaning with this earthly word . 
Their mating is a matter of community interest solely , and is directed without reference to natural selection . 
The council of chieftains of each community control the matter as surely as the owner of a Kentucky racing stud directs the scientific breeding of his stock for the improvement of the whole . 
One of the girls I charged with the duties of my simple cuisine , and directed the others to take up the various activities which had formerly constituted their vocations . 
Thereafter I saw little of them , nor did I care to . 
These creatures , which are known as thoats , are as dangerous and vicious as their masters , but when once subdued are sufficiently tractable for the purposes of the green Martians . 
Two of these animals had fallen to me from the warriors whose metal I wore , and in a short time I could handle them quite as well as the native warriors . 
The method was not at all complicated . 
In the latter case it became a life and death struggle between the man and the beast . 
My experience with Woola determined me to attempt the experiment of kindness in my treatment of my thoats . 
First I taught them that they could not unseat me , and even rapped them sharply between the ears to impress upon them my authority and mastery . 
Then , by degrees , I won their confidence in much the same manner as I had adopted countless times with my many mundane mounts . 
I could take a human life , if necessary , with far less compunction than that of a poor , unreasoning , irresponsible brute . 
In the course of a few days my thoats were the wonder of the entire community . 
By kindness , I replied . 
You see , Tars Tarkas , the softer sentiments have their value , even to a warrior . 
Your other warriors would find it to the advantage of themselves as well as of the community to adopt my methods in this respect . 
Show me how you accomplish these results , was Tars Tarkas' only rejoinder . 
On the seventh day following the battle with the air craft we again took up the march toward Thark , all probability of another attack being deemed remote by Lorquas Ptomel . 
The few times I had visited her quarters she had been absent , walking upon the streets with Sola , or investigating the buildings in the near vicinity of the plaza . 
I had warned them against venturing far from the plaza for fear of the great white apes , whose ferocity I was only too well acquainted with . 
However , since Woola accompanied them on all their excursions , and as Sola was well armed , there was comparatively little cause for fear . 
On the evening before our departure I saw them approaching along one of the great avenues which lead into the plaza from the east . 
I advanced to meet them , and telling Sola that I would take the responsibility for Dejah Thoris' safekeeping , I directed her to return to her quarters on some trivial errand . 
Sarkoja told Sola that you had become a true Thark , she said , and that I would now see no more of you than of any of the other warriors . 
Sarkoja is a liar of the first magnitude , I replied , notwithstanding the proud claim of the Tharks to absolute verity . 
They have had me down in the pits below the buildings helping them mix their awful radium powder , and make their terrible projectiles . 
You know that these have to be manufactured by artificial light , as exposure to sunlight always results in an explosion . 
The moment the sunlight , even though diffused , strikes this powder it explodes with a violence which nothing can withstand . 
As a rule , however , non exploding projectiles are used at night . 
While I was much interested in Dejah Thoris' explanation of this wonderful adjunct to Martian warfare , I was more concerned by the immediate problem of their treatment of her . 
That they were keeping her away from me was not a matter for surprise , but that they should subject her to dangerous and arduous labor filled me with rage . 
Have they ever subjected you to cruelty and ignominy , Dejah Thoris ? I asked , feeling the hot blood of my fighting ancestors leap in my veins as I awaited her reply . 
Only in little ways , John Carter , she answered . 
Nothing that can harm me outside my pride . 
Let us pity them , my chieftain , for even though we die at their hands we can afford them pity , since we are greater than they and they know it . 
Yes , I still had much to learn upon Barsoom . 
In Captain Carter's manuscript it is mentioned always by the name used in the written language of Helium and is spelled in hieroglyphics which it would be difficult and useless to reproduce . 
What have I done now ? I asked , in sore perplexity . 
Some day you shall know , John Carter , if we live but I may not tell you . 
And I , the daughter of Mors Kajak , son of Tardos Mors , have listened without anger , she soliloquized in conclusion . 
I presume that should you accidentally wound an enemy you would take him home and nurse him back to health , she laughed . 
That is precisely what we do on Earth , I answered . 
At least among civilized men . 
This made her laugh again . 
I was very curious to know what I had said or done to cause her so much perturbation a moment before and so I continued to importune her to enlighten me . 
No , she exclaimed , it is enough that you have said it and that I have listened . 
The chill of the Martian night was upon us , and removing my silks I threw them across the shoulders of Dejah Thoris . 
Only I knew that as my arm rested there across her shoulders longer than the act of adjusting the silk required she did not draw away , nor did she speak . 
I could not chance causing her additional pain or sorrow by declaring a love which , in all probability she did not return . 
Why are you so quiet , Dejah Thoris ? I asked . 
Possibly you would rather return to Sola and your quarters . 
No , she murmured , I am happy here . 
Do people kiss , then , upon Barsoom ? I asked , when she had explained the word she used , in answer to my inquiry as to its meaning . 
Parents , brothers , and sisters , yes and , she added in a low , thoughtful tone , lovers . 
And you , Dejah Thoris , have parents and brothers and sisters ? Yes . 
And a lover ? She was silent , nor could I venture to repeat the question . 
The man of Barsoom , she finally ventured , does not ask personal questions of women , except his mother , and the woman he has fought for and won . 
I sat for hours cross legged , and cross tempered , upon my silks meditating upon the queer freaks chance plays upon us poor devils of mortals . 
Such is love , and such are lovers wherever love is known . 
To me , Dejah Thoris was all that was perfect all that was virtuous and beautiful and noble and good . 
Twenty years have intervened for ten of them I lived and fought for Dejah Thoris and her people , and for ten I have lived upon her memory . 
The morning of our departure for Thark dawned clear and hot , as do all Martian mornings except for the six weeks when the snow melts at the poles . 
I sought out Dejah Thoris in the throng of departing chariots , but she turned her shoulder to me , and I could see the red blood mount to her cheek . 
My duty dictated that I must see that she was comfortable , and so I glanced into her chariot and rearranged her silks and furs . 
In doing so I noted with horror that she was heavily chained by one ankle to the side of the vehicle . 
What does this mean ? I cried , turning to Sola . 
Sarkoja thought it best , she answered , her face betokening her disapproval of the procedure . 
Examining the manacles I saw that they fastened with a massive spring lock . 
Where is the key , Sola ? Let me have it . 
Sarkoja wears it , John Carter , she answered . 
John Carter , he answered , if ever you and Dejah Thoris escape the Tharks it will be upon this journey . 
We know that you will not go without her . 
You have shown yourself a mighty fighter , and we do not wish to manacle you , so we hold you both in the easiest way that will yet ensure security . 
This much , Tars Tarkas , you may do for me in return for the friendship that , I must confess , I feel for you . 
There is no such thing , John Carter but have your will . 
I shall direct that Sarkoja cease to annoy the girl , and I myself will take the custody of the key . 
Unless you wish me to assume the responsibility , I said , smiling . 
He looked at me long and earnestly before he spoke . 
With all his cruel ferocity and coldness there was an undercurrent of something in Tars Tarkas which he seemed ever battling to subdue . 
Lord , how she hated me ! It bristled from her so palpably that one might almost have cut it with a sword . 
As Sarkoja talked with Zad he cast occasional glances in my direction , while she seemed to be urging him very strongly to some action . 
In my extremity I did what most other lovers would have done I sought word from her through an intimate . 
In this instance it was Sola whom I intercepted in another part of camp . 
What is the matter with Dejah Thoris ? I blurted out at her . 
It made me homesick , for it sounded very much like not fit to polish her shoes . 
And then commenced a train of thought quite new to me . 
I began to wonder what my people at home were doing . 
I had not seen them for years . 
There was a family of Carters in Virginia who claimed close relationship with me I was supposed to be a great uncle , or something of the kind equally foolish . 
We broke camp the next day at an early hour and marched with only a single halt until just before dark . 
Two incidents broke the tediousness of the march . 
About noon we espied far to our right what was evidently an incubator , and Lorquas Ptomel directed Tars Tarkas to investigate it . 
The latter took a dozen warriors , including myself , and we raced across the velvety carpeting of moss to the little enclosure . 
It was indeed an incubator , but the eggs were very small in comparison with those I had seen hatching in ours at the time of my arrival on Mars . 
Tars Tarkas dismounted and examined the enclosure minutely , finally announcing that it belonged to the green men of Warhoon and that the cement was scarcely dry where it had been walled up . 
They cannot be a day's march ahead of us , he exclaimed , the light of battle leaping to his fierce face . 
The work at the incubator was short indeed . 
The warriors tore open the entrance and a couple of them , crawling in , soon demolished all the eggs with their short swords . 
Then remounting we dashed back to join the cavalcade . 
During the ride I took occasion to ask Tars Tarkas if these Warhoons whose eggs we had destroyed were a smaller people than his Tharks . 
I noticed that their eggs were so much smaller than those I saw hatching in your incubator , I added . 
Shortly after the incident of the Warhoon eggs we halted to rest the animals , and it was during this halt that the second of the day's interesting episodes occurred . 
The fight that followed was a long one and delayed the resumption of the march for an hour . 
The entire community surrounded us , leaving a clear space about one hundred feet in diameter for our battle . 
He was soon streaming blood from a half dozen minor wounds , but I could not obtain an opening to deliver an effective thrust . 
Then he changed his tactics , and fighting warily and with extreme dexterity , he tried to do by science what he was unable to do by brute strength . 
There , upon Dejah Thoris' chariot stood three figures , for the purpose evidently of witnessing the encounter above the heads of the intervening Tharks . 
Then I knew what had blinded me at that crucial moment of the fight , and how Sarkoja had found a way to kill me without herself delivering the final thrust . 
I felt the steel tear into my chest , all went black before me , my head whirled in dizziness , and I felt my knees giving beneath me . 
As I had lunged I had turned so that his sword merely passed beneath the muscles , inflicting a painful but not dangerous wound . 
A murmur of Martian applause greeted me , but I cared not for it . 
Give a Martian woman a chance and death must take a back seat . 
As I approached I found Dejah Thoris lying prone upon her silks and furs , her lithe form wracked with sobs . 
She did not notice my presence , nor did she hear me speaking with Sola , who was standing a short distance from the vehicle . 
Is she injured ? I asked of Sola , indicating Dejah Thoris by an inclination of my head . 
No , she answered , she thinks that you are dead . 
And that her grandmother's cat may now have no one to polish its teeth ? I queried , smiling . 
I think you wrong her , John Carter , said Sola . 
Tears are a strange sight upon Barsoom , she continued , and so it is difficult for me to interpret them . 
I have seen but two people weep in all my life , other than Dejah Thoris one wept from sorrow , the other from baffled rage . 
The first was my mother , years ago before they killed her the other was Sarkoja , when they dragged her from me today . 
Your mother ! I exclaimed , but , Sola , you could not have known your mother , child . 
And my father also , she added . 
And now the signal has been given to resume the march , you must go . 
I will come tonight , Sola , I promised . 
Be sure to tell Dejah Thoris I am alive and well . 
I shall not force myself upon her , and be sure that you do not let her know I saw her tears . 
If she would speak with me I but await her command . 
The green Martians converse but little , and then usually in monosyllables , low and like the faint rumbling of distant thunder . 
We traversed a trackless waste of moss which , bending to the pressure of broad tire or padded foot , rose up again behind us , leaving no sign that we had passed . 
We might indeed have been the wraiths of the departed dead upon the dead sea of that dying planet for all the sound or sign we made in passing . 
We camped that night at the foot of the hills we had been approaching for two days and which marked the southern boundary of this particular sea . 
She looked up at my approach , her face lighting with pleasure and with welcome . 
I am glad you came , she said Dejah Thoris sleeps and I am lonely . 
Mine own people do not care for me , John Carter I am too unlike them . 
I promised to tell you my story , or rather the story of my parents . 
My mother was rather small , in fact too small to be allowed the responsibilities of maternity , as our chieftains breed principally for size . 
They kept their love a secret for six long years . 
She , my mother , was of the retinue of the great Tal Hajus , while her lover was a simple warrior , wearing only his own metal . 
Had their defection from the traditions of the Tharks been discovered both would have paid the penalty in the great arena before Tal Hajus and the assembled hordes . 
The egg from which I came was hidden beneath a great glass vessel upon the highest and most inaccessible of the partially ruined towers of ancient Thark . 
Once each year my mother visited it for the five long years it lay there in the process of incubation . 
She dared not come oftener , for in the mighty guilt of her conscience she feared that her every move was watched . 
During this period my father gained great distinction as a warrior and had taken the metal from several chieftains . 
Thereafter my mother continued to keep me in the old tower , visiting me nightly and lavishing upon me the love the community life would have robbed us both of . 
The torrent of hatred and abuse she poured out upon her turned my young heart cold in terror . 
One thing she had not heard , nor did she know , the whispered name of my father . 
The sounds we heard were the squealing of thoats and the grumbling of zitidars , with the occasional clank of arms which announced the approach of a body of warriors . 
The thought uppermost in her mind was that it was my father returned from his expedition , but the cunning of the Thark held her from headlong and precipitate flight to greet him . 
Retreating into the shadows of a doorway she awaited the coming of the cavalcade which shortly entered the avenue , breaking its formation and thronging the thoroughfare from wall to wall . 
As the head of the procession passed us the lesser moon swung clear of the overhanging roofs and lit up the scene with all the brilliancy of her wondrous light . 
In the confusion of the plaza she mixed me with the other children , whose guardians during the journey were now free to relinquish their responsibility . 
We were herded together into a great room , fed by women who had not accompanied the expedition , and the next day we were parceled out among the retinues of the chieftains . 
I never saw my mother after that night . 
And your father , Sola , is he with us now ? I asked . 
Yes , she replied , but he does not know me for what I am , nor does he know who betrayed my mother to Tal Hajus . 
I alone know my father's name , and only I and Tal Hajus and Sarkoja know that it was she who carried the tale that brought death and torture upon her he loved . 
John Carter , if ever a real man walked the cold , dead bosom of Barsoom you are one . 
When the time comes , speak the truth if it seems best to you . 
My father's name is Tars Tarkas . 
CHAPTER XVI WE PLAN ESCAPE The remainder of our journey to Thark was uneventful . 
We were twenty days upon the road , crossing two sea bottoms and passing through or around a number of ruined cities , mostly smaller than Korad . 
Twice we crossed the famous Martian waterways , or canals , so called by our earthly astronomers . 
I verily believe that a man's way with women is in inverse ratio to his prowess among men . 
Just thirty days after my advent upon Barsoom we entered the ancient city of Thark , from whose long forgotten people this horde of green men have stolen even their name . 
The hordes of Thark number some thirty thousand souls , and are divided into twenty five communities . 
Each community has its own jed and lesser chieftains , but all are under the rule of Tal Hajus , Jeddak of Thark . 
Five communities make their headquarters at the city of Thark , and the balance are scattered among other deserted cities of ancient Mars throughout the district claimed by Tal Hajus . 
We made our entry into the great central plaza early in the afternoon . 
There were no enthusiastic friendly greetings for the returned expedition . 
We were soon assigned to new quarters , and the balance of the day was devoted to settling ourselves to the changed conditions . 
My home now was upon an avenue leading into the plaza from the south , the main artery down which we had marched from the gates of the city . 
I was at the far end of the square and had an entire building to myself . 
The same grandeur of architecture which was so noticeable a characteristic of Korad was in evidence here , only , if that were possible , on a larger and richer scale . 
The selection of building had to be made in accordance with these divisions , except in so far as the jeds were concerned , they all occupying edifices which fronted upon the plaza . 
It was furtherest from my desire to hurt or offend you , whom I had hoped to protect and comfort . 
She looked at me long and earnestly and I thought that she was softening toward me . 
I understand your words , Dotar Sojat , she replied , but you I do not understand . 
You are a queer mixture of child and man , of brute and noble . 
I only wish that I might read your heart . 
She took a little step toward me , her beautiful hands outstretched in a strange , groping gesture . 
What do you mean , John Carter ? she whispered . 
I have twice wronged you in my thoughts and again I ask your forgiveness . 
Further conversation of a personal nature was prevented by the entrance of Sola , who was much agitated and wholly unlike her usual calm and possessed self . 
That horrible Sarkoja has been before Tal Hajus , she cried , and from what I heard upon the plaza there is little hope for either of you . 
What do they say ? inquired Dejah Thoris . 
That you will be thrown to the wild calots dogs in the great arena as soon as the hordes have assembled for the yearly games . 
Sola , I said , you are a Thark , but you hate and loathe the customs of your people as much as we do . 
Come with us , Sola we might go without you , but your fate would be terrible if they thought you had connived to aid us . 
Say that you will , Sola tell me that you will . 
They would know and they would follow us . 
We might hide among the great trees for a time , but the chances are small indeed for escape . 
They would follow us to the very gates of Helium , and they would take toll of life at every step you do not know them . 
Is there no other way we might reach Helium ? I asked . 
It was crisscrossed in every direction with long straight lines , sometimes running parallel and sometimes converging toward some great circle . 
The lines , she said , were waterways the circles , cities and one far to the northwest of us she pointed out as Helium . 
There were other cities closer , but she said she feared to enter many of them , as they were not all friendly toward Helium . 
Does not this pierce your grandfather's territory ? I asked . 
Yes , she answered , but it is two hundred miles north of us it is one of the waterways we crossed on the trip to Thark . 
They would never suspect that we would try for that distant waterway , I answered , and that is why I think that it is the best route for our escape . 
Sola agreed with me , and it was decided that we should leave Thark this same night just as quickly , in fact , as I could find and saddle my thoats . 
They were quieter now , owing to the absence of man , but as they scented me they became more restless and their hideous noise increased . 
Thus I moved silently to the great gates which opened upon the street at the back of the court , and as I neared the exit I called softly to my two animals . 
They came quite close to me , rubbing their muzzles against my body and nosing for the bits of food it was always my practice to reward them with . 
Opening the gates I ordered the two great beasts to pass out , and then slipping quietly after them I closed the portals behind me . 
With the noiselessness of disembodied spirits we moved stealthily along the deserted streets , but not until we were within sight of the plain beyond the city did I commence to breathe freely . 
I reached the appointed meeting place safely , but as Dejah Thoris and Sola were not there I led my animals into the entrance hall of one of the large buildings . 
Then there broke upon the stillness of the night the sound of an approaching party , which , from the noise , I knew could be no fugitives creeping stealthily toward liberty . 
He would likely have arranged to meet them just without the city , and so I heard no more , they had passed on but it was enough . 
Our plan had been discovered , and the chances for escape from now on to the fearful end would be small indeed . 
I did not rush headlong in , but listened without to assure myself that it was Dejah Thoris and that it was safe to venture within . 
The speaker was a chieftain and he was giving orders to four of his warriors . 
It will require the combined strength of all of you to do it if the reports they bring back from Korad are correct . 
When you have him fast bound bear him to the vaults beneath the jeddak's quarters and chain him securely where he may be found when Tal Hajus wishes him . 
Allow him to speak with none , nor permit any other to enter this apartment before he comes . 
I go , and if you fail to capture him when he comes , I commend your carcasses to the cold bosom of Iss . 
My plan of action was formed upon the instant , and crossing the square and the bordering avenue upon the opposite side I soon stood within the courtyard of Tal Hajus . 
The brilliantly lighted apartments of the first floor told me where first to seek , and advancing to the windows I peered within . 
I soon discovered that my approach was not to be the easy thing I had hoped , for the rear rooms bordering the court were filled with warriors and women . 
I then glanced up at the stories above , discovering that the third was apparently unlighted , and so decided to make my entrance to the building from that point . 
It was the work of but a moment for me to reach the windows above , and soon I had drawn myself within the sheltering shadows of the unlighted third floor . 
Fortunately the room I had selected was untenanted , and creeping noiselessly to the corridor beyond I discovered a light in the apartments ahead of me . 
She was speaking , but I could not hear what she said , nor could I make out the low grumbling of his reply . 
Presently Tal Hajus made a sign that the chamber be cleared , and that the prisoners be left alone before him . 
Slowly the chieftains , the warriors and the women melted away into the shadows of the surrounding chambers , and Dejah Thoris and Sola stood alone before the jeddak of the Tharks . 
It was Tars Tarkas , and I could read his thoughts as they were an open book for the undisguised loathing upon his face . 
Tal Hajus arose , and I , half fearing , half anticipating his intentions , hurried to the winding runway which led to the floors below . 
As I reached the floor Tal Hajus was speaking . 
Without a sound he slipped to the floor as one dead . 
In the same deathly silence I grasped Dejah Thoris by the hand , and motioning Sola to follow we sped noiselessly from the chamber and to the floor above . 
Unseen we reached a rear window and with the straps and leather of my trappings I lowered , first Sola and then Dejah Thoris to the ground below . 
We finally came upon my thoats in the courtyard where I had left them , and placing the trappings upon them we hastened through the building to the avenue beyond . 
Mounting , Sola upon one beast , and Dejah Thoris behind me upon the other , we rode from the city of Thark through the hills to the south . 
Our earlier plans had been so sadly upset that we now found ourselves without food or drink , and I alone was armed . 
We therefore urged our beasts to a speed that must tell on them sorely before we could hope to sight the ending of the first stage of our journey . 
We rode all night and all the following day with only a few short rests . 
At any rate no waterway was in sight , and the entire party was almost ready to drop from hunger , thirst and fatigue . 
Far ahead of us and a trifle to the right we could distinguish the outlines of low mountains . 
These we decided to attempt to reach in the hope that from some ridge we might discern the missing waterway . 
Night fell upon us before we reached our goal , and , almost fainting from weariness and weakness , we lay down and slept . 
Shortly after this Dejah Thoris and Sola awakened , and it was decided that we push on at once in an effort to gain the hills . 
Suddenly he lurched wildly to one side and pitched violently to the ground . 
Relieving him of his trappings , which I flung down beside him , we left the poor fellow to his fate , and pushed on with the one thoat as best we could . 
Sola and I walked , making Dejah Thoris ride , much against her will . 
Sola and I both looked in the direction she indicated , and there , plainly discernible , were several hundred mounted warriors . 
They seemed to be headed in a southwesterly direction , which would take them away from us . 
They doubtless were Thark warriors who had been sent out to capture us , and we breathed a great sigh of relief that they were traveling in the opposite direction . 
Evidently he was a chieftain , for in certain marching formations among the green men a chieftain brings up the extreme rear of the column . 
As his glass swung toward us our hearts stopped in our breasts , and I could feel the cold sweat start from every pore in my body . 
Presently it swung full upon us and stopped . 
He did not wait for them to join him , however , instead he wheeled his thoat and came tearing madly in our direction . 
There was but one slight chance and that we must take quickly . 
Good bye , my princess , I whispered , we may meet in Helium yet . 
I have escaped from worse plights than this , and I tried to smile as I lied . 
Those words are engraved upon my heart . 
Turning , I beheld the green warriors mounting the ridge and looking for their chieftain . 
In a moment they saw him , and then me but scarcely had they discovered me than I commenced firing , lying flat upon my belly in the moss . 
My respite was short lived however , for soon the entire party , numbering some thousand men , came charging into view , racing madly toward me . 
They raced wildly after me until , finally , my foot struck a projecting piece of quartz , and down I went sprawling upon the moss . 
As I looked up they were upon me , and although I drew my long sword in an attempt to sell my life as dearly as possible , it was soon over . 
I reeled beneath their blows which fell upon me in perfect torrents my head swam all was black , and I went down beneath them to oblivion . 
As I opened my eyes she turned to one of the warriors , saying , He will live , O Jed . 
'Tis well , replied the one so addressed , rising and approaching my couch , he should render rare sport for the great games . 
And now as my eyes fell upon him , I saw that he was no Thark , for his ornaments and metal were not of that horde . 
He was a huge fellow , terribly scarred about the face and chest , and with one broken tusk and a missing ear . 
Strapped on either breast were human skulls and depending from these a number of dried human hands . 
His reference to the great games of which I had heard so much while among the Tharks convinced me that I had but jumped from purgatory into gehenna . 
Just before dark we reached the main body of troops shortly after they had made camp for the night . 
I was immediately taken before the leader , who proved to be the jeddak of the hordes of Warhoon . 
He entirely omitted the usual formal salutation as we entered the presence of the jeddak , and as he pushed me roughly before the ruler he exclaimed in a loud and menacing voice . 
I have brought a strange creature wearing the metal of a Thark whom it is my pleasure to have battle with a wild thoat at the great games . 
He will die as Bar Comas , your jeddak , sees fit , if at all , replied the young ruler , with emphasis and dignity . 
If at all ? roared Dak Kova . 
By the dead hands at my throat but he shall die , Bar Comas . 
No maudlin weakness on your part shall save him . 
I never before had seen two green Martian warriors battle with nature's weapons and the exhibition of animal ferocity which ensued was as fearful a thing as the most disordered imagination could picture . 
They tore at each others' eyes and ears with their hands and with their gleaming tusks repeatedly slashed and gored until both were cut fairly to ribbons from head to foot . 
Bar Comas had much the better of the battle as he was stronger , quicker and more intelligent . 
It soon seemed that the encounter was done saving only the final death thrust when Bar Comas slipped in breaking away from a clinch . 
Victor and vanquished rolled limp and lifeless upon the moss , a huge mass of torn and bloody flesh . 
Bar Comas was stone dead , and only the most herculean efforts on the part of Dak Kova's females saved him from the fate he deserved . 
The dead jeddak's hands and head were removed to be added to the ornaments of his conqueror , and then his women cremated what remained , amid wild and terrible laughter . 
My introduction to these cruel and bloodthirsty people was but an index to the scenes I witnessed almost daily while with them . 
They are a smaller horde than the Tharks but much more ferocious . 
Not a day passed but that some members of the various Warhoon communities met in deadly combat . 
I have seen as high as eight mortal duels within a single day . 
We reached the city of Warhoon after some three days march and I was immediately cast into a dungeon and heavily chained to the floor and walls . 
Food was brought me at intervals but owing to the utter darkness of the place I do not know whether I lay there days , or weeks , or months . 
It was the most horrible experience of all my life and that my mind did not give way to the terrors of that inky blackness has been a wonder to me ever since . 
No sound reached me from the world above and no word would my jailer vouchsafe when my food was brought to me , although I at first bombarded him with questions . 
As he stooped to place my food upon the ground I swung the chain above my head and crashed the links with all my strength upon his skull . 
Without a sound he slipped to the floor , stone dead . 
Laughing and chattering like the idiot I was fast becoming I fell upon his prostrate form my fingers feeling for his dead throat . 
Presently they came in contact with a small chain at the end of which dangled a number of keys . 
The touch of my fingers on these keys brought back my reason with the suddenness of thought . 
No longer was I a jibbering idiot , but a sane , reasoning man with the means of escape within my very hands . 
As I was groping to remove the chain from about my victim's neck I glanced up into the darkness to see six pairs of gleaming eyes fixed , unwinking , upon me . 
Slowly they approached and slowly I shrank back from the awful horror of them . 
Back into my corner I crouched holding my hands palms out , before me , and stealthily on came the awful eyes until they reached the dead body at my feet . 
Then slowly they retreated but this time with a strange grating sound and finally they disappeared in some black and distant recess of my dungeon . 
CHAPTER XIX BATTLING IN THE ARENA Slowly I regained my composure and finally essayed again to attempt to remove the keys from the dead body of my former jailer . 
But as I reached out into the darkness to locate it I found to my horror that it was gone . 
Shortly after this episode another prisoner was brought in and chained near me . 
By the dim torch light I saw that he was a red Martian and I could scarcely await the departure of his guards to address him . 
As their retreating footsteps died away in the distance , I called out softly the Martian word of greeting , kaor . 
Who are you who speaks out of the darkness ? he answered John Carter , a friend of the red men of Helium . 
I am of Helium , he said , but I do not recall your name . 
And then I told him my story as I have written it here , omitting only any reference to my love for Dejah Thoris . 
He was much excited by the news of Helium's princess and seemed quite positive that she and Sola could easily have reached a point of safety from where they left me . 
Dejah Thoris and Sola entered the hills not five miles from a great waterway and are now probably quite safe , he assured me . 
in the navy of Helium . 
His vessel was chased for days by three of the Zodangan war ships but finally escaped during the darkness of a moonless night . 
Two green Martian communities had been wiped off the face of Barsoom by the avenging fleets , but no trace of Dejah Thoris had been found . 
They had been searching among the northern hordes , and only within the past few days had they extended their quest to the south . 
Kantos Kan had been detailed to one of the small one man fliers and had had the misfortune to be discovered by the Warhoons while exploring their city . 
The bravery and daring of the man won my greatest respect and admiration . 
Alone he had landed at the city's boundary and on foot had penetrated to the buildings surrounding the plaza . 
During the period of our incarceration Kantos Kan and I became well acquainted , and formed a warm personal friendship . 
A few days only elapsed , however , before we were dragged forth from our dungeon for the great games . 
We were conducted early one morning to an enormous amphitheater , which instead of having been built upon the surface of the ground was excavated below the surface . 
it had partially filled with debris so that how large it had originally been was difficult to say . 
In its present condition it held the entire twenty thousand Warhoons of the assembled hordes . 
The arena was immense but extremely uneven and unkempt . 
Kantos Kan and I were confined together in one of the cages . 
The din of their roaring , growling and squealing was deafening and the formidable appearance of any one of them was enough to make the stoutest heart feel grave forebodings . 
Kantos Kan explained to me that at the end of the day one of these prisoners would gain freedom and the others would lie dead about the arena . 
The following morning the cages would be filled with a new consignment of victims , and so on throughout the ten days of the games . 
Shortly after we had been caged the amphitheater began to fill and within an hour every available part of the seating space was occupied . 
Dak Kova , with his jeds and chieftains , sat at the center of one side of the arena upon a large raised platform . 
At a signal from Dak Kova the doors of two cages were thrown open and a dozen green Martian females were driven to the center of the arena . 
Each was given a dagger and then , at the far end , a pack of twelve calots , or wild dogs were loosed upon them . 
As the brutes , growling and foaming , rushed upon the almost defenseless women I turned my head that I might not see the horrid sight . 
The women had given a good account of themselves . 
Next a mad zitidar was loosed among the remaining dogs , and so it went throughout the long , hot , horrible day . 
Finally there were but three of us left , a great green warrior of some far northern horde , Kantos Kan , and myself . 
The other two were to battle and then I to fight the conqueror for the liberty which was accorded the final winner . 
Kantos Kan had fought several times during the day and like myself had always proven victorious , but occasionally by the smallest of margins , especially when pitted against the green warriors . 
I had little hope that he could best his giant adversary who had mowed down all before him during the day . 
The fellow towered nearly sixteen feet in height , while Kantos Kan was some inches under six feet . 
It flew true as an arrow and piercing the poor devil's heart laid him dead upon the arena . 
The horde evidently guessed that we had no hearts to fight each other and so they howled in rage as neither of us placed a fatal thrust . 
Just as I saw the sudden coming of dark I whispered to Kantos Kan to thrust his sword between my left arm and my body . 
As he did so I staggered back clasping the sword tightly with my arm and thus fell to the ground with his weapon apparently protruding from my chest . 
In the darkness which had now fallen none could tell but that he had really finished me . 
I whispered to him to go and claim his freedom and then look for me in the hills east of the city , and so he left me . 
My only food consisted of vegetable milk from the plants which gave so bounteously of this priceless fluid . 
Through two long weeks I wandered , stumbling through the nights guided only by the stars and hiding during the days behind some protruding rock or among the occasional hills I traversed . 
What manner of thing was upon me I did not know , but that it was large and heavy and many legged I could feel . 
And then a living mass of destruction sprang from the surrounding darkness full upon the creature that held me pinioned to the ground . 
That I was glad of his companionship it is needless to say , but my pleasure at seeing him was tempered by anxiety as to the reason of his leaving Dejah Thoris . 
Only her death I felt sure , could account for his absence from her , so faithful I knew him to be to my commands . 
I , myself , was in but little better plight but I could not bring myself to eat the uncooked flesh and I had no means of making a fire . 
When Woola had finished his meal I again took up my weary and seemingly endless wandering in quest of the elusive waterway . 
At daybreak of the fifteenth day of my search I was overjoyed to see the high trees that denoted the object of my search . 
About noon I dragged myself wearily to the portals of a huge building which covered perhaps four square miles and towered two hundred feet in the air . 
It showed no aperture in the mighty walls other than the tiny door at which I sank exhausted , nor was there any sign of life about it . 
I explained that I had escaped from the Warhoons and was dying of starvation and exhaustion . 
You wear the metal of a green warrior and are followed by a calot , yet you are of the figure of a red man . 
In color you are neither green nor red . 
In the name of the ninth day , what manner of creature are you ? I am a friend of the red men of Barsoom and I am starving . 
In the name of humanity open to us , I replied . 
A voice directed me to satisfy my hunger and to feed my calot , and while I was thus engaged my invisible host put me through a severe and searching cross examination . 
I can tell that by the conformation of your brain and the strange location of your internal organs and the shape and size of your heart . 
Can you see through me ? I exclaimed . 
Yes , I can see all but your thoughts , and were you a Barsoomian I could read those . 
Then a door opened at the far side of the chamber and a strange , dried up , little mummy of a man came toward me . 
I cannot describe them any more than you could describe red to a blind man . 
I only know that they were beautiful in the extreme . 
The building in which I found myself contained the machinery which produces that artificial atmosphere which sustains life on Mars . 
The secret of the entire process hinges on the use of the ninth ray , one of the beautiful scintillations which I had noted emanating from the great stone in my host's diadem . 
He led me to an inner chamber where I beheld a battery of twenty radium pumps any one of which was equal to the task of furnishing all Mars with the atmosphere compound . 
He has one assistant who divides the watch with him . 
Half a Martian year , about three hundred and forty four of our days , each of these men spend alone in this huge , isolated plant . 
One curious fact I discovered as I watched his thoughts was that the outer doors are manipulated by telepathic means . 
The locks are so finely adjusted that the doors are released by the action of a certain combination of thought waves . 
As quick as a flash there leaped to his mind nine Martian sounds , but as quickly faded as he answered that this was a secret he must not divulge . 
But be sure that you do not let them know you are bound for Helium as they are at war with that country . 
And so good night , my friend , he continued , may you have a long and restful sleep yes , a long sleep . 
For the others I did not give the snap of my finger , but the thought of Dejah Thoris drove from my mind all desire to kill my mistaken host . 
Cautiously I opened the door of my apartment and , followed by Woola , sought the inner of the great doors . 
A wild scheme had come to me I would attempt to force the great locks by the nine thought waves I had read in my host's mind . 
Creeping stealthily through corridor after corridor and down winding runways which turned hither and thither I finally reached the great hall in which I had broken my long fast that morning . 
Nowhere had I seen my host , nor did I know where he kept himself by night . 
I was on the point of stepping boldly out into the room when a slight noise behind me warned me back into the shadows of a recess in the corridor . 
Dragging Woola after me I crouched low in the darkness . 
In his mind was the decision to inspect the radium pumps , which would take about thirty minutes , and then return to my bed chamber and finish me . 
Concentrating my mind upon the massive lock I hurled the nine thought waves against it . 
In breathless expectancy I waited , when finally the great door moved softly toward me and slid quietly to one side . 
Hastening away from the shadows of the formidable pile I made for the first crossroad , intending to strike the central turnpike as quickly as possible . 
This I reached about morning and entering the first enclosure I came to I searched for some evidences of a habitation . 
There were low rambling buildings of concrete barred with heavy impassable doors , and no amount of hammering and hallooing brought any response . 
Weary and exhausted from sleeplessness I threw myself upon the ground commanding Woola to stand guard . 
Some time later I was awakened by his frightful growlings and opened my eyes to see three red Martians standing a short distance from us and covering me with their rifles . 
I am unarmed and no enemy , I hastened to explain . 
I have been a prisoner among the green men and am on my way to Zodanga . 
All I ask is food and rest for myself and my calot and the proper directions for reaching my destination . 
They then took me to the house of one of them which was only a short distance away . 
Instead of bothering with bolts and bars for their dwellings , the red Martians simply run them up out of harm's way during the night . 
They also have private means for lowering or raising them from the ground without if they wish to go away and leave them . 
These brothers , with their wives and children , occupied three similar houses on this farm . 
They did no work themselves , being government officers in charge . 
The labor was performed by convicts , prisoners of war , delinquent debtors and confirmed bachelors who were too poor to pay the high celibate tax which all red Martian governments impose . 
They were the personification of cordiality and hospitality and I spent several days with them , resting and recuperating from my long and arduous experiences . 
The chances are small that your tale will be believed until after you have proven your trustworthiness and won friends among the higher nobles of the court . 
This you can most easily do through military service , as we are a warlike people on Barsoom , explained one of them , and save our richest favors for the fighting man . 
When I was ready to depart they furnished me with a small domestic bull thoat , such as is used for saddle purposes by all red Martians . 
The animal is about the size of a horse and quite gentle , but in color and shape an exact replica of his huge and fierce cousin of the wilds . 
My metal and ornaments were also renewed in the style of a Zodangan gentleman , attached to the house of Ptor , which was the family name of my benefactors . 
They filled a little sack at my side with Zodangan money . 
The medium of exchange upon Mars is not dissimilar from our own except that the coins are oval . 
Paper money is issued by individuals as they require it and redeemed twice yearly . 
The water which supplies the farms of Mars is collected in immense underground reservoirs at either pole from the melting ice caps , and pumped through long conduits to the various populated centers . 
Along either side of these conduits , and extending their entire length , lie the cultivated districts . 
These are divided into tracts of about the same size , each tract being under the supervision of one or more government officers . 
The crops upon Mars are always uniform , for there are no droughts , no rains , no high winds , and no insects , or destroying birds . 
On this trip I tasted the first meat I had eaten since leaving Earth large , juicy steaks and chops from the well fed domestic animals of the farms . 
Also I enjoyed luscious fruits and vegetables , but not a single article of food which was exactly similar to anything on Earth . 
At a second stop I met some highly cultivated people of the noble class and while in conversation we chanced to speak of Helium . 
One of the older men had been there on a diplomatic mission several years before and spoke with regret of the conditions which seemed destined ever to keep these two countries at war . 
Why , he added , the people really worship the ground she walks upon and since her loss on that ill starred expedition all Helium has been draped in mourning . 
it is said she will fall within the next few passages of the further moon . 
And what , think you , may have been the fate of the princess , Dejah Thoris ? I asked as casually as possible . 
She is dead , he answered . 
This much was learned from a green warrior recently captured by our forces in the south . 
She escaped from the hordes of Thark with a strange creature of another world , only to fall into the hands of the Warhoons . 
Their thoats were found wandering upon the sea bottom and evidences of a bloody conflict were discovered nearby . 
Ten days after leaving the three Ptor brothers I arrived at Zodanga . 
Were one to stroll down Broadway with a Numidian lion at his heels the effect would be somewhat similar to that which I should have produced had I entered Zodanga with Woola . 
The letter I bore from them gained me immediate entrance to the vast , walled city . 
It was still very early in the morning and the streets were practically deserted . 
The residences , raised high upon their metal columns , resembled huge rookeries , while the uprights themselves presented the appearance of steel tree trunks . 
The shops as a rule were not raised from the ground nor were their doors bolted or barred , since thievery is practically unknown upon Barsoom . 
Assassination is the ever present fear of all Barsoomians , and for this reason alone their homes are raised high above the ground at night , or in times of danger . 
My way led to the central square or plaza , which is a characteristic of all Martian cities . 
Were my name and city known to the Zodangans I would shortly be sitting on the banks of the lost sea of Korus with my revered and departed ancestors . 
I am here in the interest of Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium , to discover the whereabouts of Dejah Thoris , our princess . 
Sab Than , prince of Zodanga , has her hidden in the city and has fallen madly in love with her . 
I have been here three days , continued Kantos Kan , but I have not yet found where Dejah Thoris is imprisoned . 
I am glad that you are here , John Carter , for I know your loyalty to my princess and two of us working together should be able to accomplish much . 
The plaza was now commencing to fill with people going and coming upon the daily activities of their duties . 
The shops were opening and the cafes filling with early morning patrons . 
Kantos Kan led me to one of these gorgeous eating places where we were served entirely by mechanical apparatus . 
In accordance with custom an examination was necessary , but Kantos Kan had told me to have no fear on this score as he would attend to that part of the matter . 
He accomplished this by taking my order for examination to the examining officer and representing himself as John Carter . 
The next few days were spent by Kantos Kan in teaching me the intricacies of flying and of repairing the dainty little contrivances which the Martians use for this purpose . 
The body of the one man air craft is about sixteen feet long , two feet wide and three inches thick , tapering to a point at each end . 
The driver sits on top of this plane upon a seat constructed over the small , noiseless radium engine which propels it . 
During the early years of the discovery of this ray many strange accidents occurred before the Martians learned to measure and control the wonderful power they had found . 
The fourth day after my arrival at Zodanga I made my first flight , and as a result of it I won a promotion which included quarters in the palace of Than Kosis . 
A short distance away lay his tiny flier , surrounded by the tools with which he had evidently been occupied in repairing some damage when surprised by the green warriors . 
Each seemed striving to be the first to impale the poor Zodangan and in another moment his fate would have been sealed had it not been for my timely arrival . 
The mounts of the other two warriors turned squealing in terror , and bolted in opposite directions . 
Reducing my speed I circled and came to the ground at the feet of the astonished Zodangan . 
We wasted no time in talk as we knew that the warriors would surely return as soon as they had gained control of their mounts . 
When they had approached within a hundred yards their thoats again became unmanageable and absolutely refused to advance further toward the air craft which had frightened them . 
The warriors finally dismounted and hobbling their animals advanced toward us on foot with drawn long swords . 
I advanced to meet the larger , telling the Zodangan to do the best he could with the other . 
He was wounded and down with the huge foot of his antagonist upon his throat and the great long sword raised to deal the final thrust . 
With a bound I cleared the fifty feet intervening between us , and with outstretched point drove my sword completely through the body of the green warrior . 
His sword fell , harmless , to the ground and he sank limply upon the prostrate form of the Zodangan . 
A cursory examination of the latter revealed no mortal injuries and after a brief rest he asserted that he felt fit to attempt the return voyage . 
He would have to pilot his own craft , however , as these frail vessels are not intended to convey but a single person . 
Quickly completing the repairs we rose together into the still , cloudless Martian sky , and at great speed and without further mishap returned to Zodanga . 
As we neared the city we discovered a mighty concourse of civilians and troops assembled upon the plain before the city . 
The sky was black with naval vessels and private and public pleasure craft , flying long streamers of gay colored silks , and banners and flags of odd and picturesque design . 
One of the staff called the attention of Than Kosis to the presence of my companion above them and the ruler motioned for him to descend . 
As they waited for the troops to move into position facing the jeddak the two talked earnestly together , the jeddak and his staff occasionally glancing up at me . 
I could not hear their conversation and presently it ceased and all dismounted , as the last body of troops had wheeled into position before their emperor . 
A member of the staff advanced toward the troops , and calling the name of a soldier commanded him to advance . 
As I halted before the officer , he addressed me in a voice audible to the entire assemblage of troops and spectators . 
You are therefore appointed a padwar of The Guards and will be quartered in my palace hereafter . 
I thanked him , and at his direction joined the members of his staff . 
He therefore escorted me immediately to the apartment in which Than Kosis then was . 
The ruler was engaged in conversation with his son , Sab Than , and several courtiers of his household , and did not perceive my entrance . 
The walls of the apartment were completely hung with splendid tapestries which hid any windows or doors which may have pierced them . 
The room was lighted by imprisoned rays of sunshine held between the ceiling proper and what appeared to be a ground glass false ceiling a few inches below . 
My guide drew aside one of the tapestries , disclosing a passage which encircled the room , between the hangings and the walls of the chamber . 
Within this passage I was to remain , he said , so long as Than Kosis was in the apartment . 
When he left I was to follow . 
My only duty was to guard the ruler and keep out of sight as much as possible . 
I would be relieved after a period of four hours . 
The major domo then left me . 
Scarcely had I gained my post than the tapestry at the opposite end of the chamber separated and four soldiers of The Guard entered , surrounding a female figure . 
Sab Than , Prince of Zodanga , advanced to meet her , and hand in hand they approached close to the jeddak . 
Than Kosis looked up in surprise , and , rising , saluted her . 
That you will forgive , Than Kosis , as has your son . 
I am glad that you have so decided , replied Than Kosis . 
It is far from my desire to push war further against the people of Helium , and , your promise shall be recorded and a proclamation to my people issued forthwith . 
It were better , Than Kosis , interrupted Dejah Thoris , that the proclamation wait the ending of this war . 
It would look strange indeed to my people and to yours were the Princess of Helium to give herself to her country's enemy in the midst of hostilities . 
Cannot the war be ended at once ? spoke Sab Than . 
It requires but the word of Than Kosis to bring peace . 
Say it , my father , say the word that will hasten my happiness , and end this unpopular strife . 
We shall see , replied Than Kosis , how the people of Helium take to peace . 
I shall at least offer it to them . 
Dejah Thoris , after a few words , turned and left the apartment , still followed by her guards . 
Thus was the edifice of my brief dream of happiness dashed , broken , to the ground of reality . 
Although I had heard it with my own ears I could not believe it . 
Slipping quietly through this opening I discovered a maze of winding corridors , branching and turning in every direction . 
Running rapidly down first one and then another of them I soon became hopelessly lost and was standing panting against a side wall when I heard voices near me . 
Apparently they were coming from the opposite side of the partition against which I leaned and presently I made out the tones of Dejah Thoris . 
I could not hear the words but I knew that I could not possibly be mistaken in the voice . 
Moving on a few steps I discovered another passageway at the end of which lay a door . 
Walking boldly forward I pushed into the room only to find myself in a small ante chamber in which were the four guards who had accompanied her . 
One of them instantly arose and accosted me , asking the nature of my business . 
I am from Than Kosis , I replied , and wish to speak privately with Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium . 
And your order ? asked the fellow . 
But my entrance was not to be so easily accomplished . 
The guardsman stepped before me , saying , No one comes from Than Kosis without carrying an order or the password . 
You must give me one or the other before you may pass . 
Throw down your sword you cannot hope to overcome four of us , he added with a grim smile . 
My reply was a quick thrust which left me but three antagonists and I can assure you that they were worthy of my metal . 
They had me backed against the wall in no time , fighting for my life . 
The noise had brought Dejah Thoris to the door of her apartment , and there she stood throughout the conflict with Sola at her back peering over her shoulder . 
Her face was set and emotionless and I knew that she did not recognize me , nor did Sola . 
The third fell within ten seconds after the second , and the last lay dead upon the bloody floor a few moments later . 
Sheathing my bloody blade I advanced toward my Martian Princess , who still stood mutely gazing at me without sign of recognition . 
Who are you , Zodangan ? she whispered . 
Another enemy to harass me in my misery ? I am a friend , I answered , a once cherished friend . 
It is , though , my Princess , none other than John Carter , I said . 
Too late , too late , she grieved . 
O my chieftain that was , and whom I thought dead , had you but returned one little hour before but now it is too late , too late . 
What do you mean , Dejah Thoris ? I cried . 
But I am not dead , my princess . 
I have come to claim you , and all Zodanga cannot prevent it . 
It is too late , John Carter , my promise is given , and on Barsoom that is final . 
The ceremonies which follow later are but meaningless formalities . 
They make the fact of marriage no more certain than does the funeral cortege of a jeddak again place the seal of death upon him . 
I am as good as married , John Carter . 
No longer may you call me your princess . 
No longer are you my chieftain . 
You meant them then , my princess , and you mean them still ! Say that it is true . 
I meant them , John Carter , she whispered . 
I cannot repeat them now for I have given myself to another . 
It might have meant the fall of Helium , but I would have given my empire for my Tharkian chief . 
You did not know , and I should not have been offended I see that now . 
But there was no one to tell you what I could not , that upon Barsoom there are two kinds of women in the cities of the red men . 
The one they fight for that they may ask them in marriage the other kind they fight for also , but never ask their hands . 
When a man has won a woman he may address her as his princess , or in any of the several terms which signify possession . 
I do not need ask your forgiveness now , Dejah Thoris , I cried . 
You must know that my fault was of ignorance of your Barsoomian customs . 
No , John Carter , it is useless , she cried , hopelessly , I may never be yours while Sab Than lives . 
You have sealed his death warrant , my princess Sab Than dies . 
Nor that either , she hastened to explain . 
I may not wed the man who slays my husband , even in self defense . 
We are ruled by custom upon Barsoom . 
It is useless , my friend . 
You must bear the sorrow with me . 
That at least we may share in common . 
That , and the memory of the brief days among the Tharks . 
You must go now , nor ever see me again . 
Good bye , my chieftain that was . 
As I wandered along the corridors , I was as absolutely lost in the mazes of winding passageways as I had been before I discovered Dejah Thoris' apartments . 
The walls of this room were hung with transparent tapestries behind which I secreted myself without being apprehended . 
In a moment the entire palace was alive with people . 
Guardsmen , officers , courtiers , servants , and slaves ran helter skelter through the corridors and apartments carrying messages and orders , and searching for signs of the assassin . 
Here I left my guides , and , slipping to the nearest window , sought for an avenue of escape . 
The windows opened upon a great balcony which overlooked one of the broad avenues of Zodanga . 
The ground was about thirty feet below , and at a like distance from the building was a wall fully twenty feet high , constructed of polished glass about a foot in thickness . 
To a red Martian escape by this path would have appeared impossible , but to me , with my earthly strength and agility , it seemed already accomplished . 
My only fear was in being detected before darkness fell , for I could not make the leap in broad daylight while the court below and the avenue beyond were crowded with Zodangans . 
Into the capacious bowl like vase I sprang with ease , and scarcely had I settled down within it than I heard a number of people enter the apartment . 
The group stopped beneath my hiding place and I could plainly overhear their every word . 
It is the work of Heliumites , said one of the men . 
We shall soon know , however , for here comes the royal psychologist . 
They were felled not by a number of fighting men , but by a single opponent . 
What manner of weird tale are you bringing me , Notan ? he cried . 
It is the truth , my Jeddak , replied the psychologist . 
In fact the impressions were strongly marked on the brain of each of the four guardsmen . 
Though he wore the metal of Zodanga , my Jeddak , such a man was never seen before in this or any other country upon Barsoom . 
The mind of the Princess of Helium whom I have examined and questioned was a blank to me , she has perfect control , and I could not read one iota of it . 
Where is my erstwhile savior ? spoke another of the party , and I recognized the voice of the cousin of Than Kosis , whom I had rescued from the green warriors . 
By the metal of my first ancestor , he went on , but the description fits him to perfection , especially as to his fighting ability . 
Where is this man ? cried Than Kosis . 
Have him brought to me at once . 
Keep your eyes on this other one , commanded Than Kosis . 
He also is a stranger and likely as not they both hail from Helium , and where one is we shall sooner or later find the other . 
Quadruple the air patrol , and let every man who leaves the city by air or ground be subjected to the closest scrutiny . 
Another messenger now entered with word that I was still within the palace walls . 
She may know more than she cared to divulge to you , Notan . 
They left the hall , and , as darkness had fallen without , I slipped lightly from my hiding place and hastened to the balcony . 
Few were in sight , and choosing a moment when none seemed near I sprang quickly to the top of the glass wall and from there to the avenue beyond the palace grounds . 
CHAPTER XXIII LOST IN THE SKY Without effort at concealment I hastened to the vicinity of our quarters , where I felt sure I should find Kantos Kan . 
As I neared the building I became more careful , as I judged , and rightly , that the place would be guarded . 
Several men in civilian metal loitered near the front entrance and in the rear were others . 
He was alone and showed no surprise at my coming , saying he had expected me much earlier , as my tour of duty must have ended some time since . 
I saw that he knew nothing of the events of the day at the palace , and when I had enlightened him he was all excitement . 
The news that Dejah Thoris had promised her hand to Sab Than filled him with dismay . 
It cannot be , he exclaimed . 
It is impossible ! Why no man in all Helium but would prefer death to the selling of our loved princess to the ruling house of Zodanga . 
She must have lost her mind to have assented to such an atrocious bargain . 
You , who do not know how we of Helium love the members of our ruling house , cannot appreciate the horror with which I contemplate such an unholy alliance . 
What can be done , John Carter ? he continued . 
You are a resourceful man . 
Kantos Kan eyed me narrowly before he spoke . 
You love her ! he said . 
Does she know it ? She knows it , Kantos Kan , and repulses me only because she is promised to Sab Than . 
This very night I shall try to reach his quarters in the palace . 
You are strongly guarded and a quadruple force patrols the sky . 
He bent his head in thought a moment , then raised it with an air of confidence . 
I only need to pass these guards and I can do it , he said at last . 
I know a secret entrance to the palace through the pinnacle of the highest tower . 
I fell upon it by chance one day as I was passing above the palace on patrol duty . 
I therefore drew near and discovered that the possessor of the peering face was none other than Sab Than . 
There is usually but one man on duty there at night upon the roof . 
Go to the roof of this building , Kantos Kan , and wait me there . 
Without stopping to explain my plans I retraced my way to the street and hastened to the barracks . 
The building was an enormous one , rearing its lofty head fully a thousand feet into the air . 
It was a long climb up the face of the building , and one fraught with much danger , but there was no other way , and so I essayed the task . 
Here I met my first real obstacle . 
The eaves projected nearly twenty feet from the wall to which I clung , and though I encircled the great building I could find no opening through them . 
The top floor was alight , and filled with soldiers engaged in the pastimes of their kind I could not , therefore , reach the roof through the building . 
An instant I hesitated , and then , releasing my grasp upon the supporting ornament , I swung out into space at the end of the strap . 
Far below me lay the brilliantly lighted streets , the hard pavements , and death . 
Clambering quickly aloft I grasped the edge of the eaves and drew myself to the surface of the roof above . 
As I gained my feet I was confronted by the sentry on duty , into the muzzle of whose revolver I found myself looking . 
Who are you and whence came you ? he cried . 
I am an air scout , friend , and very near a dead one , for just by the merest chance I escaped falling to the avenue below , I replied . 
But how came you upon the roof , man ? No one has landed or come up from the building for the past hour . 
Quick , explain yourself , or I call the guard . 
The weapon dropped from his grasp , and my fingers choked off his attempted cry for assistance . 
I gagged and bound him and then hung him over the edge of the roof as I myself had hung a few moments before . 
I knew it would be morning before he would be discovered , and I needed all the time that I could gain . 
Donning my trappings and weapons I hastened to the sheds , and soon had out both my machine and Kantos Kan's . 
In less than a minute I was settling safely upon the roof of our apartment beside the astonished Kantos Kan . 
I lost no time in explanation , but plunged immediately into a discussion of our plans for the immediate future . 
It was decided that I was to try to make Helium while Kantos Kan was to enter the palace and dispatch Sab Than . 
If successful he was then to follow me . 
The concussion nearly capsized her , and with a sickening plunge she hurtled downward through the dark night . 
Rising again I scanned the heavens for my pursuers , and finally making out their lights far behind me , saw that they were landing , evidently in search of me . 
Helium lies a thousand miles southwest of Zodanga , and with my compass intact I should have made the trip , barring accidents , in between four and five hours . 
As it turned out , however , morning found me speeding over a vast expanse of dead sea bottom after nearly six hours of continuous flight at high speed . 
I fell almost directly in the center of the fierce combat , among warriors who had not seen my approach so busily were they engaged in life and death struggles . 
He did not see me , as I was a trifle behind him , and just then the three warriors opposing him , and whom I recognized as Warhoons , charged simultaneously . 
Quick as lightning they were upon him , and Tars Tarkas would have been gathered to his fathers in short order had I not sprung before his prostrate form and engaged his adversaries . 
I had accounted for one of them when the mighty Thark regained his feet and quickly settled the other . 
I think I have learned that there is such a thing as friendship , my friend . 
Ten thousand men had been engaged in that titanic struggle , and upon the field of battle lay three thousand dead . 
Neither side asked or gave quarter , nor did they attempt to take prisoners . 
It was Woola faithful , loving Woola . 
Tal Hajus knows that you are here , John Carter , said Tars Tarkas , on his return from the jeddak's quarters Sarkoja saw and recognized you as we were returning . 
Tal Hajus has ordered me to bring you before him tonight . 
I have ten thoats , John Carter you may take your choice from among them , and I will accompany you to the nearest waterway that leads to Helium . 
Tars Tarkas may be a cruel green warrior , but he can be a friend as well . 
Come , we must start . 
And when you return , Tars Tarkas ? I asked . 
The wild calots , possibly , or worse , he replied . 
Unless I should chance to have the opportunity I have so long waited of battling with Tal Hajus . 
We will stay , Tars Tarkas , and see Tal Hajus tonight . 
You shall not sacrifice yourself , and it may be that tonight you can have the chance you wait . 
While we were eating I repeated to Tars Tarkas the story which Sola had told me that night upon the sea bottom during the march to Thark . 
He no longer demurred when I suggested that we go before Tal Hajus , only saying that he would like to speak to Sarkoja first . 
Sarkoja , said Tars Tarkas , forty years ago you were instrumental in bringing about the torture and death of a woman named Gozava . 
I have just discovered that the warrior who loved that woman has learned of your part in the transaction . 
Having heard that he would do this on the morrow , I thought it only right to warn you , for I am a just man . 
The river Iss is but a short pilgrimage , Sarkoja . 
The next morning Sarkoja was gone , nor was she ever seen after . 
Strap him to that pillar , he shrieked . 
We shall see who it is dares strike the mighty Tal Hajus . 
Heat the irons with my own hands I shall burn the eyes from his head that he may not pollute my person with his vile gaze . 
You owe me , at least , a hearing . 
I have won that much today . 
You claim to be just people Silence , roared Tal Hajus . 
Gag the creature and bind him as I command . 
Justice , Tal Hajus , exclaimed Lorquas Ptomel . 
Who are you to set aside the customs of ages among the Tharks . 
Yes , justice ! echoed a dozen voices , and so , while Tal Hajus fumed and frothed , I continued . 
Is it of such that the Tharks fashion their jeddaks ? There stands beside me now a great Thark , a mighty warrior and a noble man . 
Chieftains , how sounds , Tars Tarkas , Jeddak of Thark ? A roar of deep toned applause greeted this suggestion . 
It but remains for this council to command , and Tal Hajus must prove his fitness to rule . 
With my bare hands I could kill him , and he knows it . 
After I ceased there was tense silence , as all eyes were riveted upon Tal Hajus . 
He did not speak or move , but the blotchy green of his countenance turned livid , and the froth froze upon his lips . 
Tal Hajus , said Lorquas Ptomel in a cold , hard voice , never in my long life have I seen a jeddak of the Tharks so humiliated . 
There could be but one answer to this arraignment . 
And still Tal Hajus stood as though electrified . 
That decree was final , and so Tal Hajus drew his long sword and advanced to meet Tars Tarkas . 
The combat was soon over , and , with his foot upon the neck of the dead monster , Tars Tarkas became jeddak among the Tharks . 
His first act was to make me a full fledged chieftain with the rank I had won by my combats the first few weeks of my captivity among them . 
Seeing the favorable disposition of the warriors toward Tars Tarkas , as well as toward me , I grasped the opportunity to enlist them in my cause against Zodanga . 
I told Tars Tarkas the story of my adventures , and in a few words had explained to him the thought I had in mind . 
John Carter has made a proposal , he said , addressing the council , which meets with my sanction . 
I shall put it to you briefly . 
John Carter suggests that we rescue her and return her to Helium . 
What say you ? It was a chance to fight , an opportunity to loot , and they rose to the bait as a speckled trout to a fly . 
For Tharks they were wildly enthusiastic , and before another half hour had passed twenty mounted messengers were speeding across dead sea bottoms to call the hordes together for the expedition . 
At the head of the column I rode beside the great Thark while at the heels of my mount trotted my beloved Woola . 
The fighting strength and efficiency of this horde of ferocious green monsters was equivalent to ten times their number of red men . 
Never in the history of Barsoom , Tars Tarkas told me , had such a force of green warriors marched to battle together . 
These gates have no regular guard , but are covered by sentries , who patrol the avenue that encircles the city just within the walls as our metropolitan police patrol their beats . 
The walls of Zodanga are seventy five feet in height and fifty feet thick . 
They are built of enormous blocks of carborundum , and the task of entering the city seemed , to my escort of green warriors , an impossibility . 
The fellows who had been detailed to accompany me were of one of the smaller hordes , and therefore did not know me . 
The head of the topmost warrior towered over forty feet from the ground . 
In this way , with ten warriors , I built a series of three steps from the ground to the shoulders of the topmost man . 
After me I dragged six lengths of leather from an equal number of my warriors . 
These lengths we had previously fastened together , and passing one end to the topmost warrior I lowered the other end cautiously over the opposite side of the wall toward the avenue below . 
No one was in sight , so , lowering myself to the end of my leather strap , I dropped the remaining thirty feet to the pavement below . 
I had learned from Kantos Kan the secret of opening these gates , and in another moment my twenty great fighting men stood within the doomed city of Zodanga . 
I found to my delight that I had entered at the lower boundary of the enormous palace grounds . 
We were to do our work quietly , no shots were to be fired and no general advance made until I had reached the palace with my fifty Tharks . 
Our plans worked to perfection . 
The two sentries we met were dispatched to their fathers upon the banks of the lost sea of Korus , and the guards at both gates followed them in silence . 
CHAPTER XXV THE LOOTING OF ZODANGA As the great gate where I stood swung open my fifty Tharks , headed by Tars Tarkas himself , rode in upon their mighty thoats . 
I led them to the palace walls , which I negotiated easily without assistance . 
As we approached the palace I could see through the great windows of the first floor into the brilliantly illuminated audience chamber of Than Kosis . 
The immense hall was crowded with nobles and their women , as though some important function was in progress . 
At one end of the chamber , upon massive golden thrones encrusted with diamonds , sat Than Kosis and his consort , surrounded by officers and dignitaries of state . 
Directly behind these officers came four others carrying a similar salver which supported the magnificent ornaments of a prince and princess of the reigning house of Zodanga . 
At the foot of the throne these two parties separated and halted , facing each other at opposite sides of the aisle . 
These two stopped at the foot of the throne , facing Than Kosis . 
When the balance of the procession had entered and assumed their stations Than Kosis addressed the couple standing before him . 
Than Kosis now took a set of the ornaments from one of the salvers and placed one of the collars of gold about his son's neck , springing the padlock fast . 
The object of the ceremony was clear to me in another moment Dejah Thoris would be joined forever to the Prince of Zodanga . 
In an instant all was confusion a thousand drawn swords menaced me from every quarter , and Sab Than sprang upon me with a jeweled dagger he had drawn from his nuptial ornaments . 
Zodanga has fallen , I cried . 
Look ! All eyes turned in the direction I had indicated , and there , forging through the portals of the entranceway rode Tars Tarkas and his fifty warriors on their great thoats . 
Thrusting Sab Than headlong from the platform , I drew Dejah Thoris to my side . 
Behind the throne was a narrow doorway and in this Than Kosis now stood facing me , with drawn long sword . 
In an instant we were engaged , and I found no mean antagonist . 
As his father rolled dead upon the floor the new jeddak tore himself free from Dejah Thoris' grasp , and again we faced each other . 
He was soon joined by a quartet of officers , and , with my back against a golden throne , I fought once again for Dejah Thoris . 
I was hard pressed to defend myself and yet not strike down Sab Than and , with him , my last chance to win the woman I loved . 
My blade was swinging with the rapidity of lightning as I sought to parry the thrusts and cuts of my opponents . 
Two I had disarmed , and one was down , when several more rushed to the aid of their new ruler , and to avenge the death of the old . 
As they advanced there were cries of The woman ! The woman ! Strike her down it is her plot . 
Sab Than lay dead beside his father , and the corpses of the flower of Zodangan nobility and chivalry covered the floor of the bloody shambles . 
The jailers had all left to join the fighters in the throne room , so we searched the labyrinthine prison without opposition . 
I called Kantos Kan's name aloud in each new corridor and compartment , and finally I was rewarded by hearing a faint response . 
Guided by the sound , we soon found him helpless in a dark recess . 
He was overjoyed at seeing me , and to know the meaning of the fight , faint echoes of which had reached his prison cell . 
He told me that the air patrol had captured him before he reached the high tower of the palace , so that he had not even seen Sab Than . 
Fortunately among the first I examined I found his jailer , and soon we had Kantos Kan with us in the throne room . 
The sounds of heavy firing , mingled with shouts and cries , came to us from the city's streets , and Tars Tarkas hastened away to direct the fighting without . 
She had sunk into one of the golden thrones , and as I turned to her she greeted me with a wan smile . 
Was there ever such a man ! she exclaimed . 
I know that Barsoom has never before seen your like . 
The answer is easy , Dejah Thoris , I replied smiling . 
It was not I who did it , it was love , love for Dejah Thoris , a power that would work greater miracles than this you have seen . 
A pretty flush overspread her face and she answered , You may say that now , John Carter , and I may listen , for I am free . 
And more still I have to say , ere it is again too late , I returned . 
CHAPTER XXVI THROUGH CARNAGE TO JOY Sometime later Tars Tarkas and Kantos Kan returned to report that Zodanga had been completely reduced . 
Her forces were entirely destroyed or captured , and no further resistance was to be expected from within . 
Several battleships had escaped , but there were thousands of war and merchant vessels under guard of Thark warriors . 
Behind us we left the stricken city in the fierce and brutal clutches of some forty thousand green warriors of the lesser hordes . 
They were looting , murdering , and fighting amongst themselves . 
With their uncanny marksmanship they raked the on coming fleet with volley after volley . 
The twin cities of Helium , perceiving that we were friends , sent out hundreds of vessels to aid us , and then began the first real air battle I had ever witnessed . 
Their small arm fire , however , was most effective , and the final outcome of the engagement was strongly influenced , if not wholly determined , by their presence . 
At first the two forces circled at the same altitude , pouring broadside after broadside into each other . 
A wild cry of exultation arose from the Heliumite squadron , and with redoubled ferocity they fell upon the Zodangan fleet . 
One after another the brave fellows , holding their colors high above their heads , leaped from the towering bows of their mighty craft to an awful death . 
When the other vessels of the squadron caught the meaning of the signals flashed them they took up the wild acclaim and unfurled her colors in the gleaming sunlight . 
The flagship bore down upon us , and as she swung gracefully to and touched our side a dozen officers sprang upon our decks . 
Dejah Thoris and I then advanced , and they had no eyes for other than her . 
She received them gracefully , calling each by name , for they were men high in the esteem and service of her grandfather , and she knew them well . 
Lay your hands upon the shoulder of John Carter , she said to them , turning toward me , the man to whom Helium owes her princess as well as her victory today . 
Though not a garrulous race , the Tharks are extremely formal , and their ways lend themselves amazingly well to dignified and courtly manners . 
In the distance lay our fleet of transports , with the thoats of the green warriors , where they had remained during the battle . 
It was necessary to lower the animals to the ground in slings and this work occupied the remainder of the day and half the night . 
Twice we were attacked by parties of Zodangan cavalry , but with little loss , however , and after darkness shut down they withdrew . 
About a mile from the main camp we encountered their outposts and , as had been prearranged , accepted this as the signal to charge . 
With wild , ferocious cries and amidst the nasty squealing of battle enraged thoats we bore down upon the Zodangans . 
We did not catch them napping , but found a well entrenched battle line confronting us . 
Time after time we were repulsed until , toward noon , I began to fear for the result of the battle . 
The forces from Helium had not arrived , nor could we receive any word from them . 
Just at noon we heard heavy firing all along the line between the Zodangans and the cities , and we knew then that our much needed reinforcements had come . 
Again Tars Tarkas ordered the charge , and once more the mighty thoats bore their terrible riders against the ramparts of the enemy . 
At the same moment the battle line of Helium surged over the opposite breastworks of the Zodangans and in another moment they were being crushed as between two millstones . 
Nobly they fought , but in vain . 
The broad avenues were lined with women and children , among which were the few men whose duties necessitated that they remain within the city during the battle . 
We were greeted with an endless round of applause and showered with ornaments of gold , platinum , silver , and precious jewels . 
The city had gone mad with joy . 
My fierce Tharks caused the wildest excitement and enthusiasm . 
Never before had an armed body of green warriors entered the gates of Helium , and that they came now as friends and allies filled the red men with rejoicing . 
He was an almost perfect specimen of manhood tall , straight as an arrow , superbly muscled and with the carriage and bearing of a ruler of men . 
I did not need to be told that he was Tardos Mors , Jeddak of Helium . 
The first member of our party he met was Tars Tarkas and his first words sealed forever the new friendship between the races . 
Tardos Mors then greeted each of the green jeddaks and jeds , and to each spoke words of friendship and appreciation As he approached me he laid both hands upon my shoulders . 
We were then presented to Mors Kajak , Jed of lesser Helium , and father of Dejah Thoris . 
He had followed close behind Tardos Mors and seemed even more affected by the meeting than had his father . 
In common with all Helium he worshiped his daughter , nor could he think of what she had escaped without deep emotion . 
The jed of lesser Helium with a small party of nobles accompanied them all the way to Thark to cement more closely the new bonds of peace and friendship . 
Sola also accompanied Tars Tarkas , her father , who before all his chieftains had acknowledged her as his daughter . 
For nine years I served in the councils and fought in the armies of Helium as a prince of the house of Tardos Mors . 
In a golden incubator upon the roof of our palace lay a snow white egg . 
In the distance we saw the bright white light of an approaching airship , but we attached no special significance to so common a sight . 
Like a bolt of lightning it raced toward Helium until its very speed bespoke the unusual . 
Flashing the signals which proclaimed it a dispatch bearer for the jeddak , it circled impatiently awaiting the tardy patrol boat which must convoy it to the palace docks . 
Ten minutes after it touched at the palace a message called me to the council chamber , which I found filling with the members of that body . 
On the raised platform of the throne was Tardos Mors , pacing back and forth with tense drawn face . 
When all were in their seats he turned toward us . 
The ambassadors of the other nations asked us to take the matter in hand and hasten the assistant keeper to the plant . 
I do not need to tell you what this means to Barsoom . 
The instruments show a rapidly decreasing air pressure on all parts of Barsoom the engine has stopped . 
My gentlemen , he concluded , we have at best three days to live . 
There was absolute silence for several minutes , and then a young noble arose , and with his drawn sword held high above his head addressed Tardos Mors . 
The men of Helium have prided themselves that they have ever shown Barsoom how a nation of red men should live , now is our opportunity to show them how they should die . 
Let us go about our duties as though a thousand useful years still lay before us . 
When I returned to my palace I found that the rumor already had reached Dejah Thoris , so I told her all that I had heard . 
We have been very happy , John Carter , she said , and I thank whatever fate overtakes us that it permits us to die together . 
The next two days brought no noticeable change in the supply of air , but on the morning of the third day breathing became difficult at the higher altitudes of the rooftops . 
The avenues and plazas of Helium were filled with people . 
For the most part the people looked bravely into the face of their unalterable doom . 
Here and there , however , men and women gave way to quiet grief . 
Toward the middle of the day many of the weaker commenced to succumb and within an hour the people of Barsoom were sinking by thousands into the unconsciousness which precedes death by asphyxiation . 
Dejah Thoris and I with the other members of the royal family had collected in a sunken garden within an inner courtyard of the palace . 
We conversed in low tones , when we conversed at all , as the awe of the grim shadow of death crept over us . 
Even Woola seemed to feel the weight of the impending calamity , for he pressed close to Dejah Thoris and to me , whining pitifully . 
As it was becoming perceptibly difficult to breathe Tardos Mors arose , saying , Let us bid each other farewell . 
The days of the greatness of Barsoom are over . 
Tomorrow's sun will look down upon a dead world which through all eternity must go swinging through the heavens peopled not even by memories . 
He stooped and kissed the women of his family , and laid his strong hand upon the shoulders of the men . 
As I turned sadly from him my eyes fell upon Dejah Thoris . 
Her head was drooping upon her breast , to all appearances she was lifeless . 
With a cry I sprang to her and raised her in my arms . 
Her eyes opened and looked into mine . 
Kiss me , John Carter , she murmured . 
I love you ! I love you ! It is cruel that we must be torn apart who were just starting upon a life of love and happiness . 
As I pressed her dear lips to mine the old feeling of unconquerable power and authority rose in me . 
The fighting blood of Virginia sprang to life in my veins . 
It shall not be , my princess , I cried . 
There is , there must be some way , and John Carter , who has fought his way through a strange world for love of you , will find it . 
And with my words there crept above the threshold of my conscious mind a series of nine long forgotten sounds . 
A flier , Jeddak ! Quick ! Order your swiftest flier to the palace top . 
I can save Barsoom yet . 
I traveled with awful velocity for my errand was a race against time with death . 
The face of Dejah Thoris hung always before me . 
As I turned for a last look as I left the palace garden I had seen her stagger and sink upon the ground beside the little incubator . 
Conditions seemed much worse here than at Helium , and it was with difficulty that I breathed at all . 
There were a few men still conscious , and to one of these I spoke . 
If I can open these doors is there a man who can start the engines ? I asked . 
I can , he replied , if you open quickly . 
I can last but a few moments more . 
But it is useless , they are both dead and no one else upon Barsoom knew the secret of these awful locks . 
For three days men crazed with fear have surged about this portal in vain attempts to solve its mystery . 
I had no time to talk , I was becoming very weak and it was with difficulty that I controlled my mind at all . 
But , with a final effort , as I sank weakly to my knees I hurled the nine thought waves at that awful thing before me . 
The Martian had crawled to my side and with staring eyes fixed on the single panel before us we waited in the silence of death . 
Slowly the mighty door receded before us . 
I attempted to rise and follow it but I was too weak . 
After it , I cried to my companion , and if you reach the pump room turn loose all the pumps . 
CHAPTER XXVIII AT THE ARIZONA CAVE It was dark when I opened my eyes again . 
Strange , stiff garments were upon my body garments that cracked and powdered away from me as I rose to a sitting posture . 
I felt myself over from head to foot and from head to foot I was clothed , though when I fell unconscious at the little doorway I had been naked . 
Before me was a small patch of moonlit sky which showed through a ragged aperture . 
As my hands passed over my body they came in contact with pockets and in one of these a small parcel of matches wrapped in oiled paper . 
Behind her , depending from the roof upon rawhide thongs , and stretching entirely across the cave , was a row of human skeletons . 
It was a most grotesque and horrid tableau and I hastened out into the fresh air glad to escape from so gruesome a place . 
The sight that met my eyes as I stepped out upon a small ledge which ran before the entrance of the cave filled me with consternation . 
A new heaven and a new landscape met my gaze . 
The silvered mountains in the distance , the almost stationary moon hanging in the sky , the cacti studded valley below me were not of Mars . 
Burying my head in my arms I turned , broken , and sorrowful , down the trail from the cave . 
Above me shone the red eye of Mars holding her awful secret , forty eight million miles away . 
For ten years I have waited and prayed to be taken back to the world of my lost love . 
I would rather lie dead beside her there than live on Earth all those millions of terrible miles from her . 
I believe that they are waiting there for me , and something tells me that I shall soon know . 
