Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
No , children , you are mistaken . 
Once upon a time there was a piece of wood . 
It was not an expensive piece of wood . 
Just a common block of firewood , one of those thick , solid logs that are put on the fire in winter to make cold rooms cozy and warm . 
I do not know how this really happened , yet the fact remains that one fine day this piece of wood found itself in the shop of an old carpenter . 
As soon as he saw that piece of wood , Mastro Cherry was filled with joy . 
Rubbing his hands together happily , he mumbled half to himself This has come in the nick of time . 
I shall use it to make the leg of a table . 
He grasped the hatchet quickly to peel off the bark and shape the wood . 
It can easily be seen that I only thought I heard the tiny voice say the words ! Well , well to work once more . 
He struck a most solemn blow upon the piece of wood . 
Oh , oh ! You hurt ! cried the same far away little voice . 
Mastro Cherry grew dumb , his eyes popped out of his head , his mouth opened wide , and his tongue hung down on his chin . 
Here it is a piece of common firewood , good only to burn in the stove , the same as any other . 
Yet might someone be hidden in it ? If so , the worse for him . 
I'll fix him ! With these words , he grabbed the log with both hands and started to knock it about unmercifully . 
He threw it to the floor , against the walls of the room , and even up to the ceiling . 
He listened for the tiny voice to moan and cry . 
He waited two minutes nothing five minutes nothing ten minutes nothing . 
Oh , I see , he said , trying bravely to laugh and ruffling up his wig with his hand . 
He set aside the hatchet and picked up the plane to make the wood smooth and even , but as he drew it to and fro , he heard the same tiny voice . 
This time it giggled as it spoke Stop it ! Oh , stop it ! Ha , ha , ha ! You tickle my stomach . 
This time poor Mastro Cherry fell as if shot . 
When he opened his eyes , he found himself sitting on the floor . 
His face had changed fright had turned even the tip of his nose from red to deepest purple . 
Come in , said the carpenter , not having an atom of strength left with which to stand up . 
At the words , the door opened and a dapper little old man came in . 
His name was Geppetto , but to the boys of the neighborhood he was Polendina , on account of the wig he always wore which was just the color of yellow corn . 
Cornmeal mush Geppetto had a very bad temper . 
Woe to the one who called him Polendina ! He became as wild as a beast and no one could soothe him . 
Good day , Mastro Antonio , said Geppetto . 
What are you doing on the floor ? I am teaching the ants their A B C's . 
Good luck to you ! What brought you here , friend Geppetto ? My legs . 
And it may flatter you to know , Mastro Antonio , that I have come to you to beg for a favor . 
Here I am , at your service , answered the carpenter , raising himself on to his knees . 
This morning a fine idea came to me . 
I thought of making myself a beautiful wooden Marionette . 
It must be wonderful , one that will be able to dance , fence , and turn somersaults . 
With it I intend to go around the world , to earn my crust of bread and cup of wine . 
What do you think of it ? Bravo , Polendina ! cried the same tiny voice which came from no one knew where . 
I suppose you think I did ! Yet I KNOW it was you . 
No ! Yes ! No ! Yes ! And growing angrier each moment , they went from words to blows , and finally began to scratch and bite and slap each other . 
When the fight was over , Mastro Antonio had Geppetto's yellow wig in his hands and Geppetto found the carpenter's curly wig in his mouth . 
Give me back my wig ! shouted Mastro Antonio in a surly voice . 
You return mine and we'll be friends . 
The two little old men , each with his own wig back on his own head , shook hands and swore to be good friends for the rest of their lives . 
Will you give it to me ? Mastro Antonio , very glad indeed , went immediately to his bench to get the piece of wood which had frightened him so much . 
But as he was about to give it to his friend , with a violent jerk it slipped out of his hands and hit against poor Geppetto's thin legs . 
You're right but remember you were the one to throw it at my legs . 
I did not throw it ! Liar ! Geppetto , do not insult me or I shall call you Polendina . 
Polendina ! Donkey ! Polendina ! Ugly monkey ! Polendina ! On hearing himself called Polendina for the third time , Geppetto lost his head with rage and threw himself upon the carpenter . 
Then and there they gave each other a sound thrashing . 
After this fight , Mastro Antonio had two more scratches on his nose , and Geppetto had two buttons missing from his coat . 
Thus having settled their accounts , they shook hands and swore to be good friends for the rest of their lives . 
Then Geppetto took the fine piece of wood , thanked Mastro Antonio , and limped away toward home . 
CHAPTER As soon as he gets home , Geppetto fashions the Marionette and calls it Pinocchio . 
The first pranks of the Marionette Little as Geppetto's house was , it was neat and comfortable . 
It was a small room on the ground floor , with a tiny window under the stairway . 
The furniture could not have been much simpler a very old chair , a rickety old bed , and a tumble down table . 
A fireplace full of burning logs was painted on the wall opposite the door . 
Over the fire , there was painted a pot full of something which kept boiling happily away and sending up clouds of what looked like real steam . 
As soon as he reached home , Geppetto took his tools and began to cut and shape the wood into a Marionette . 
What shall I call him ? he said to himself . 
I think I'll call him PINOCCHIO . 
This name will make his fortune . 
I knew a whole family of Pinocchi once Pinocchio the father , Pinocchia the mother , and Pinocchi the children and they were all lucky . 
The richest of them begged for his living . 
After choosing the name for his Marionette , Geppetto set seriously to work to make the hair , the forehead , the eyes . 
Fancy his surprise when he noticed that these eyes moved and then stared fixedly at him . 
Geppetto , seeing this , felt insulted and said in a grieved tone Ugly wooden eyes , why do you stare so ? There was no answer . 
After the eyes , Geppetto made the nose , which began to stretch as soon as finished . 
It stretched and stretched and stretched till it became so long , it seemed endless . 
Poor Geppetto kept cutting it and cutting it , but the more he cut , the longer grew that impertinent nose . 
In despair he let it alone . 
Next he made the mouth . 
No sooner was it finished than it began to laugh and poke fun at him . 
Stop laughing ! said Geppetto angrily but he might as well have spoken to the wall . 
Stop laughing , I say ! he roared in a voice of thunder . 
The mouth stopped laughing , but it stuck out a long tongue . 
Not wishing to start an argument , Geppetto made believe he saw nothing and went on with his work . 
After the mouth , he made the chin , then the neck , the shoulders , the stomach , the arms , and the hands . 
As he was about to put the last touches on the finger tips , Geppetto felt his wig being pulled off . 
He glanced up and what did he see ? His yellow wig was in the Marionette's hand . 
Pinocchio , give me my wig ! But instead of giving it back , Pinocchio put it on his own head , which was half swallowed up in it . 
At that unexpected trick , Geppetto became very sad and downcast , more so than he had ever been before . 
Pinocchio , you wicked boy ! he cried out . 
You are not yet finished , and you start out by being impudent to your poor old father . 
Very bad , my son , very bad ! And he wiped away a tear . 
The legs and feet still had to be made . 
As soon as they were done , Geppetto felt a sharp kick on the tip of his nose . 
I deserve it ! he said to himself . 
I should have thought of this before I made him . 
Now it's too late ! He took hold of the Marionette under the arms and put him on the floor to teach him to walk . 
Pinocchio's legs were so stiff that he could not move them , and Geppetto held his hand and showed him how to put out one foot after the other . 
When his legs were limbered up , Pinocchio started walking by himself and ran all around the room . 
He came to the open door , and with one leap he was out into the street . 
Catch him ! Catch him ! Geppetto kept shouting . 
But the people in the street , seeing a wooden Marionette running like the wind , stood still to stare and to laugh until they cried . 
A military policeman Pinocchio saw the Carabineer from afar and tried his best to escape between the legs of the big fellow , but without success . 
and returned him to Mastro Geppetto . 
The little old man wanted to pull Pinocchio's ears . 
As he was doing so , he shook him two or three times and said to him angrily We're going home now . 
When we get home , then we'll settle this matter ! Pinocchio , on hearing this , threw himself on the ground and refused to take another step . 
One person after another gathered around the two . 
Some said one thing , some another . 
Poor Marionette , called out a man . 
I am not surprised he doesn't want to go home . 
What happened after this is an almost unbelievable story , but you may read it , dear children , in the chapters that follow . 
In the meantime that rascal , Pinocchio , free now from the clutches of the Carabineer , was running wildly across fields and meadows , taking one short cut after another toward home . 
In his wild flight , he leaped over brambles and bushes , and across brooks and ponds , as if he were a goat or a hare chased by hounds . 
On reaching home , he found the house door half open . 
He slipped into the room , locked the door , and threw himself on the floor , happy at his escape . 
But his happiness lasted only a short time , for just then he heard someone saying Cri cri cri ! Who is calling me ? asked Pinocchio , greatly frightened . 
I am ! Pinocchio turned and saw a large cricket crawling slowly up the wall . 
Tell me , Cricket , who are you ? I am the Talking Cricket and I have been living in this room for more than one hundred years . 
Today , however , this room is mine , said the Marionette , and if you wish to do me a favor , get out now , and don't turn around even once . 
I refuse to leave this spot , answered the Cricket , until I have told you a great truth . 
Tell it , then , and hurry . 
Sing on , Cricket mine , as you please . 
What I know is , that tomorrow , at dawn , I leave this place forever . 
If I stay here the same thing will happen to me which happens to all other boys and girls . 
They are sent to school , and whether they want to or not , they must study . 
Of all the trades in the world , there is only one that really suits me . 
And what can that be ? That of eating , drinking , sleeping , playing , and wandering around from morning till night . 
Careful , ugly Cricket ! If you make me angry , you'll be sorry ! Poor Pinocchio , I am sorry for you . 
Why ? Because you are a Marionette and , what is much worse , you have a wooden head . 
At these last words , Pinocchio jumped up in a fury , took a hammer from the bench , and threw it with all his strength at the Talking Cricket . 
Perhaps he did not think he would strike it . 
But , sad to relate , my dear children , he did hit the Cricket , straight on its head . 
For , as night came on , a queer , empty feeling at the pit of his stomach reminded the Marionette that he had eaten nothing as yet . 
A bone left by a dog would have tasted good to him ! But he found nothing . 
And meanwhile his hunger grew and grew . 
The only relief poor Pinocchio had was to yawn and he certainly did yawn , such a big yawn that his mouth stretched out to the tips of his ears . 
Soon he became dizzy and faint . 
He wept and wailed to himself The Talking Cricket was right . 
It was wrong of me to disobey Father and to run away from home . 
In a jiffy he pounced upon it . 
The Marionette's joy knew no bounds . 
It is impossible to describe it , you must picture it to yourself . 
No sooner said than done . 
He placed a little pan over a foot warmer full of hot coals . 
In the pan , instead of oil or butter , he poured a little water . 
As soon as the water started to boil tac ! he broke the eggshell . 
But in place of the white and the yolk of the egg , a little yellow Chick , fluffy and gay and smiling , escaped from it . 
The poor Marionette stood as if turned to stone , with wide eyes , open mouth , and the empty halves of the egg shell in his hands . 
The night was pitch black . 
It thundered , and bright flashes of lightning now and again shot across the sky , turning it into a sea of fire . 
An angry wind blew cold and raised dense clouds of dust , while the trees shook and moaned in a weird way . 
Pinocchio was greatly afraid of thunder and lightning , but the hunger he felt was far greater than his fear . 
In a dozen leaps and bounds , he came to the village , tired out , puffing like a whale , and with tongue hanging . 
The whole village was dark and deserted . 
The stores were closed , the doors , the windows . 
In the streets , not even a dog could be seen . 
It seemed the Village of the Dead . 
An old man in a nightcap opened the window and looked out . 
He called down angrily What do you want at this hour of night ? Will you be good enough to give me a bit of bread ? I am hungry . 
He returned home as wet as a rag , and tired out from weariness and hunger . 
As he no longer had any strength left with which to stand , he sat down on a little stool and put his two feet on the stove to dry them . 
There he fell asleep , and while he slept , his wooden feet began to burn . 
Slowly , very slowly , they blackened and turned to ashes . 
Pinocchio snored away happily as if his feet were not his own . 
At dawn he opened his eyes just as a loud knocking sounded at the door . 
Who is it ? he called , yawning and rubbing his eyes . 
It is I , answered a voice . 
It was the voice of Geppetto . 
In falling , he made as much noise as a sack of wood falling from the fifth story of a house . 
Open the door for me ! Geppetto shouted from the street . 
Father , dear Father , I can't , answered the Marionette in despair , crying and rolling on the floor . 
Why can't you ? Because someone has eaten my feet . 
And who has eaten them ? The cat , answered Pinocchio , seeing that little animal busily playing with some shavings in the corner of the room . 
Open ! I say , repeated Geppetto , or I'll give you a sound whipping when I get in . 
Father , believe me , I can't stand up . 
Oh , dear ! Oh , dear ! I shall have to walk on my knees all my life . 
Geppetto , thinking that all these tears and cries were only other pranks of the Marionette , climbed up the side of the house and went in through the window . 
At first he was very angry , but on seeing Pinocchio stretched out on the floor and really without feet , he felt very sad and sorrowful . 
The thunder was so noisy and the lightning so bright and I was hungry . 
It was his own fault , for I didn't want to kill him . 
And I put the pan on the coals , but the Chick flew away and said , I'll see you again ! Remember me to the family . 
Eat them and stop weeping . 
If you want me to eat them , please peel them for me . 
Peel them ? asked Geppetto , very much surprised . 
I should never have thought , dear boy of mine , that you were so dainty and fussy about your food . 
And good old Geppetto took out a knife , peeled the three pears , and put the skins in a row on the table . 
Pinocchio ate one pear in a twinkling and started to throw the core away , but Geppetto held his arm . 
Oh , no , don't throw it away ! Everything in this world may be of some use ! But the core I will not eat ! cried Pinocchio in an angry tone . 
Who knows ? repeated Geppetto calmly . 
And later the three cores were placed on the table next to the skins . 
Pinocchio had eaten the three pears , or rather devoured them . 
Then he yawned deeply , and wailed I'm still hungry . 
But I have no more to give you . 
Really , nothing nothing ? I have only these three cores and these skins . 
Very well , then , said Pinocchio , if there is nothing else I'll eat them . 
At first he made a wry face , but , one after another , the skins and the cores disappeared . 
Ah ! Now I feel fine ! he said after eating the last one . 
You see , observed Geppetto , that I was right when I told you that one must not be too fussy and too dainty about food . 
But Mastro Geppetto , in order to punish him for his mischief , let him alone the whole morning . 
I promise to go to school every day , to study , and to succeed Boys always sing that song when they want their own will . 
But I am not like other boys ! I am better than all of them and I always tell the truth . 
I promise you , Father , that I'll learn a trade , and I'll be the comfort and staff of your old age . 
Geppetto , though trying to look very stern , felt his eyes fill with tears and his heart soften when he saw Pinocchio so unhappy . 
He said no more , but taking his tools and two pieces of wood , he set to work diligently . 
In less than an hour the feet were finished , two slender , nimble little feet , strong and quick , modeled as if by an artist's hands . 
Close your eyes and sleep ! Geppetto then said to the Marionette . 
To show you how grateful I am to you , Father , I'll go to school now . 
But to go to school I need a suit of clothes . 
Pinocchio ran to look at himself in a bowl of water , and he felt so happy that he said proudly Now I look like a gentleman . 
But remember that fine clothes do not make the man unless they be neat and clean . 
Very true , answered Pinocchio , but , in order to go to school , I still need something very important . 
What is it ? An A B C book . 
To be sure ! But how shall we get it ? That's easy . 
We'll go to a bookstore and buy it . 
And the money ? I have none . 
Neither have I , said the old man sadly . 
Pinocchio , although a happy boy always , became sad and downcast at these words . 
When poverty shows itself , even mischievous boys understand what it means . 
What does it matter , after all ? cried Geppetto all at once , as he jumped up from his chair . 
Putting on his old coat , full of darns and patches , he ran out of the house without another word . 
After a while he returned . 
In his hands he had the A B C book for his son , but the old coat was gone . 
The poor fellow was in his shirt sleeves and the day was cold . 
Where's your coat , Father ? I have sold it . 
Why did you sell your coat ? It was too warm . 
Pinocchio understood the answer in a twinkling , and , unable to restrain his tears , he jumped on his father's neck and kissed him over and over . 
Talking to himself , he said In school today , I'll learn to read , tomorrow to write , and the day after tomorrow I'll do arithmetic . 
Then , clever as I am , I can earn a lot of money . 
With the very first pennies I make , I'll buy Father a new cloth coat . 
Cloth , did I say ? No , it shall be of gold and silver with diamond buttons . 
zum , zum , zum , zum . 
Those sounds came from a little street that led to a small village along the shore . 
What can that noise be ? What a nuisance that I have to go to school ! Otherwise . 
There he stopped , very much puzzled . 
He felt he had to make up his mind for either one thing or another . 
Should he go to school , or should he follow the pipes ? Today I'll follow the pipes , and tomorrow I'll go to school . 
There's always plenty of time to go to school , decided the little rascal at last , shrugging his shoulders . 
No sooner said than done . 
He started down the street , going like the wind . 
On he ran , and louder grew the sounds of pipe and drum pi pi pi , pi pi pi , pi pi pi . 
zum , zum , zum , zum . 
Suddenly , he found himself in a large square , full of people standing in front of a little wooden building painted in brilliant colors . 
What is that house ? Pinocchio asked a little boy near him . 
Read the sign and you'll know . 
I'd like to read , but somehow I can't today . 
Oh , really ? Then I'll read it to you . 
Know , then , that written in letters of fire I see the words GREAT MARIONETTE THEATER . 
When did the show start ? It is starting now . 
And how much does one pay to get in ? Four pennies . 
For the price of four pennies , I'll sell you my coat . 
If it rains , what shall I do with a coat of flowered paper ? I could not take it off again . 
Do you want to buy my shoes ? They are only good enough to light a fire with . 
What about my hat ? Fine bargain , indeed ! A cap of dough ! The mice might come and eat it from my head ! Pinocchio was almost in tears . 
He was just about to make one last offer , but he lacked the courage to do so . 
He hesitated , he wondered , he could not make up his mind . 
I'll give you four pennies for your A B C book , said a ragpicker who stood by . 
Then and there , the book changed hands . 
And then something happened which almost caused a riot . 
The curtain was up and the performance had started . 
Harlequin and Pulcinella were reciting on the stage and , as usual , they were threatening each other with sticks and blows . 
The theater was full of people , enjoying the spectacle and laughing till they cried at the antics of the two Marionettes . 
The play continued for a few minutes , and then suddenly , without any warning , Harlequin stopped talking . 
It is ! It is ! shrieked Signora Rosaura , peeking in from the side of the stage . 
It is Pinocchio ! It is Pinocchio ! yelled all the Marionettes , pouring out of the wings . 
It is our brother Pinocchio ! Hurrah for Pinocchio ! Pinocchio , come up to me ! shouted Harlequin . 
Come to the arms of your wooden brothers ! At such a loving invitation , Pinocchio , with one leap from the back of the orchestra , found himself in the front rows . 
With another leap , he was on the orchestra leader's head . 
With a third , he landed on the stage . 
It is impossible to describe the shrieks of joy , the warm embraces , the knocks , and the friendly greetings with which that strange company of dramatic actors and actresses received Pinocchio . 
At that very moment , the Director came out of his room . 
He had such a fearful appearance that one look at him would fill you with horror . 
His beard was as black as pitch , and so long that it reached from his chin down to his feet . 
His mouth was as wide as an oven , his teeth like yellow fangs , and his eyes , two glowing red coals . 
In his huge , hairy hands , a long whip , made of green snakes and black cats' tails twisted together , swished through the air in a dangerous way . 
At the unexpected apparition , no one dared even to breathe . 
One could almost hear a fly go by . 
Those poor Marionettes , one and all , trembled like leaves in a storm . 
Why have you brought such excitement into my theater the huge fellow asked Pinocchio with the voice of an ogre suffering with a cold . 
Believe me , your Honor , the fault was not mine . 
Enough ! Be quiet ! I'll take care of you later . 
As soon as the play was over , the Director went to the kitchen , where a fine big lamb was slowly turning on the spit . 
More wood was needed to finish cooking it . 
He called Harlequin and Pulcinella and said to them Bring that Marionette to me ! He looks as if he were made of well seasoned wood . 
He'll make a fine fire for this spit . 
Harlequin and Pulcinella hesitated a bit . 
Then , frightened by a look from their master , they left the kitchen to obey him . 
was very ugly , but he was far from being as bad as he looked . 
Finally , he could control himself no longer and gave a loud sneeze . 
The way was just as good as any other to show the kindness of his heart . 
God bless you ! said Pinocchio . 
Thanks ! Are your father and mother still living ? demanded Fire Eater . 
My mother I have never known . 
Your poor father would suffer terribly if I were to use you as firewood . 
Poor old man ! I feel sorry for him ! E tchee ! E tchee ! E tchee ! Three more sneezes sounded , louder than ever . 
God bless you ! said Pinocchio . 
Thanks ! However , I ought to be sorry for myself , too , just now . 
My good dinner is spoiled . 
I have no more wood for the fire , and the lamb is only half cooked . 
Never mind ! In your place I'll burn some other Marionette . 
Fire Eater yelled at them in a hoarse voice Take Harlequin , tie him , and throw him on the fire . 
I want my lamb well done ! Think how poor Harlequin felt ! He was so scared that his legs doubled up under him and he fell to the floor . 
There is no mercy here , Pinocchio . 
Harlequin must burn in your place . 
I am hungry and my dinner must be cooked . 
In that case , said Pinocchio proudly , as he stood up and flung away his cap of dough , in that case , my duty is clear . 
Come , officers ! Tie me up and throw me on those flames . 
Even the officers , who were made of wood also , cried like two babies . 
Fire Eater at first remained hard and cold as a piece of ice but then , little by little , he softened and began to sneeze . 
Has pardon been granted to me ? asked poor Harlequin with a voice that was hardly a breath . 
At the news that pardon had been given , the Marionettes ran to the stage and , turning on all the lights , they danced and sang till dawn . 
And what is his trade ? He's a wood carver . 
Does he earn much ? He earns so much that he never has a penny in his pockets . 
Poor fellow ! I feel sorry for him . 
Here , take these five gold pieces . 
Go , give them to him with my kindest regards . 
Pinocchio , as may easily be imagined , thanked him a thousand times . 
He kissed each Marionette in turn , even the officers , and , beside himself with joy , set out on his homeward journey . 
He had gone barely half a mile when he met a lame Fox and a blind Cat , walking together like two good friends . 
The lame Fox leaned on the Cat , and the blind Cat let the Fox lead him along . 
Good morning , Pinocchio , said the Fox , greeting him courteously . 
How do you know my name ? asked the Marionette . 
I know your father well . 
Where have you seen him ? I saw him yesterday standing at the door of his house . 
And what was he doing ? He was in his shirt sleeves trembling with cold . 
Poor Father ! But , after today , God willing , he will suffer no longer . 
Why ? Because I have become a rich man . 
You , a rich man ? said the Fox , and he began to laugh out loud . 
The Cat was laughing also , but tried to hide it by stroking his long whiskers . 
There is nothing to laugh at , cried Pinocchio angrily . 
I am very sorry to make your mouth water , but these , as you know , are five new gold pieces . 
And he pulled out the gold pieces which Fire Eater had given him . 
For yourself ? For myself . 
I want to go to school and study hard . 
Look at me , said the Fox . 
For the silly reason of wanting to study , I have lost a paw . 
Look at me , said the Cat . 
For the same foolish reason , I have lost the sight of both eyes . 
At that moment , a Blackbird , perched on the fence along the road , called out sharp and clear Pinocchio , do not listen to bad advice . 
After eating the bird , he cleaned his whiskers , closed his eyes , and became blind once more . 
Poor Blackbird ! said Pinocchio to the Cat . 
Why did you kill him ? I killed him to teach him a lesson . 
Next time he will keep his words to himself . 
By this time the three companions had walked a long distance . 
Instead of returning home , come with us . 
And where will you take me ? To the City of Simple Simons . 
Pinocchio thought a while and then said firmly No , I don't want to go . 
Home is near , and I'm going where Father is waiting for me . 
I have learned this at my own expense . 
Even last night in the theater , when Fire Eater . 
Brrrr ! ! ! ! ! . 
The shivers run up and down my back at the mere thought of it . 
Well , then , said the Fox , if you really want to go home , go ahead , but you'll be sorry . 
You'll be sorry , repeated the Cat . 
Think well , Pinocchio , you are turning your back on Dame Fortune . 
On Dame Fortune , repeated the Cat . 
Tomorrow your five gold pieces will be two thousand ! Two thousand ! repeated the Cat . 
But how can they possibly become so many ? asked Pinocchio wonderingly . 
I'll explain , said the Fox . 
You must know that , just outside the City of Simple Simons , there is a blessed field called the Field of Wonders . 
In this field you dig a hole and in the hole you bury a gold piece . 
After covering up the hole with earth you water it well , sprinkle a bit of salt on it , and go to bed . 
During the night , the gold piece sprouts , grows , blossoms , and next morning you find a beautiful tree , that is loaded with gold pieces . 
Why , you can figure it on your fingers ! Granted that each piece gives you five hundred , multiply five hundred by five . 
Next morning you will find twenty five hundred new , sparkling gold pieces . 
Fine ! Fine ! cried Pinocchio , dancing about with joy . 
And as soon as I have them , I shall keep two thousand for myself and the other five hundred I'll give to you two . 
A gift for us ? cried the Fox , pretending to be insulted . 
Why , of course not ! Of course not ! repeated the Cat . 
We do not work for gain , answered the Fox . 
We work only to enrich others . 
To enrich others ! repeated the Cat . 
What good people , thought Pinocchio to himself . 
And forgetting his father , the new coat , the A B C book , and all his good resolutions , he said to the Fox and to the Cat Let us go . 
CHAPTER The Inn of the Red Lobster Cat and Fox and Marionette walked and walked and walked . 
At last , toward evening , dead tired , they came to the Inn of the Red Lobster . 
Let us stop here a while , said the Fox , to eat a bite and rest for a few hours . 
At midnight we'll start out again , for at dawn tomorrow we must be at the Field of Wonders . 
They went into the Inn and all three sat down at the same table . 
However , not one of them was very hungry . 
The poor Cat felt very weak , and he was able to eat only thirty five mullets with tomato sauce and four portions of tripe with cheese . 
Moreover , as he was so in need of strength , he had to have four more helpings of butter and cheese . 
The Fox , after a great deal of coaxing , tried his best to eat a little . 
The doctor had put him on a diet , and he had to be satisfied with a small hare dressed with a dozen young and tender spring chickens . 
After the hare , he ordered some partridges , a few pheasants , a couple of rabbits , and a dozen frogs and lizards . 
He felt ill , he said , and could not eat another bite . 
Pinocchio ate least of all . 
He asked for a bite of bread and a few nuts and then hardly touched them . 
The poor fellow , with his mind on the Field of Wonders , was suffering from a gold piece indigestion . 
Supper over , the Fox said to the Innkeeper Give us two good rooms , one for Mr. Pinocchio and the other for me and my friend . 
Before starting out , we'll take a little nap . 
Remember to call us at midnight sharp , for we must continue on our journey . 
Yes , sir , answered the Innkeeper , winking in a knowing way at the Fox and the Cat , as if to say , I understand . 
As soon as Pinocchio was in bed , he fell fast asleep and began to dream . 
He dreamed he was in the middle of a field . 
The field was full of vines heavy with grapes . 
The grapes were no other than gold coins which tinkled merrily as they swayed in the wind . 
It was the Innkeeper who had come to tell him that midnight had struck . 
Are my friends ready ? the Marionette asked him . 
Indeed , yes ! They went two hours ago . 
Why in such a hurry ? Unfortunately the Cat received a telegram which said that his first born was suffering from chilblains and was on the point of death . 
He could not even wait to say good by to you . 
Too bad ! That offense would have been more than pleasing to me , said Pinocchio , scratching his head . 
Where did my good friends say they would wait for me ? he added . 
At the Field of Wonders , at sunrise tomorrow morning . 
Pinocchio paid a gold piece for the three suppers and started on his way toward the field that was to make him a rich man . 
He walked on , not knowing where he was going , for it was dark , so dark that not a thing was visible . 
Round about him , not a leaf stirred . 
A few bats skimmed his nose now and again and scared him half to death . 
Once or twice he shouted , Who goes there ? and the far away hills echoed back to him , Who goes there ? Who goes there ? Who goes . 
? As he walked , Pinocchio noticed a tiny insect glimmering on the trunk of a tree , a small being that glowed with a pale , soft light . 
Who are you ? he asked . 
I am the ghost of the Talking Cricket , answered the little being in a faint voice that sounded as if it came from a far away world . 
What do you want ? asked the Marionette . 
I want to give you a few words of good advice . 
Return home and give the four gold pieces you have left to your poor old father who is weeping because he has not seen you for many a day . 
Tomorrow my father will be a rich man , for these four gold pieces will become two thousand . 
Don't listen to those who promise you wealth overnight , my boy . 
As a rule they are either fools or swindlers ! Listen to me and go home . 
But I want to go on ! The hour is late ! I want to go on . 
The night is very dark . 
I want to go on . 
I want to go on . 
Remember that boys who insist on having their own way , sooner or later come to grief . 
Good night , Pinocchio , and may Heaven preserve you from the Assassins . 
There was silence for a minute and the light of the Talking Cricket disappeared suddenly , just as if someone had snuffed it out . 
Once again the road was plunged in darkness . 
Everybody scolds us , everybody gives us advice , everybody warns us . 
If we were to allow it , everyone would try to be father and mother to us everyone , even the Talking Cricket . 
Take me , for example . 
To speak sensibly , I think assassins have been invented by fathers and mothers to frighten children who want to run away at night . 
At such a speech , I can almost see those poor fellows running like the wind . 
But in case they don't run away , I can always run myself . 
Pinocchio was not given time to argue any longer , for he thought he heard a slight rustle among the leaves behind him . 
He turned to look and behold , there in the darkness stood two big black shadows , wrapped from head to foot in black sacks . 
The two figures leaped toward him as softly as if they were ghosts . 
Here they come ! Pinocchio said to himself , and , not knowing where to hide the gold pieces , he stuck all four of them under his tongue . 
Come , come , less nonsense , and out with your money ! cried the two thieves in threatening voices . 
Once more , Pinocchio's head and hands said , I haven't a penny . 
Out with that money or you're a dead man , said the taller of the two Assassins . 
Dead man , repeated the other . 
And after having killed you , we will kill your father also . 
Your father also ! No , no , no , not my Father ! cried Pinocchio , wild with terror but as he screamed , the gold pieces tinkled together in his mouth . 
Ah , you rascal ! So that's the game ! You have the money hidden under your tongue . 
Out with it ! But Pinocchio was as stubborn as ever . 
All was of no use . 
The Marionette's lips might have been nailed together . 
In desperation the smaller of the two Assassins pulled out a long knife from his pocket , and tried to pry Pinocchio's mouth open with it . 
Quick as a flash , the Marionette sank his teeth deep into the Assassin's hand , bit it off and spat it out . 
Fancy his surprise when he saw that it was not a hand , but a cat's paw . 
Encouraged by this first victory , he freed himself from the claws of his assailers and , leaping over the bushes along the road , ran swiftly across the fields . 
His pursuers were after him at once , like two dogs chasing a hare . 
After running seven miles or so , Pinocchio was well nigh exhausted . 
Seeing himself lost , he climbed up a giant pine tree and sat there to see what he could see . 
The Assassins tried to climb also , but they slipped and fell . 
Far from giving up the chase , this only spurred them on . 
They gathered a bundle of wood , piled it up at the foot of the pine , and set fire to it . 
In a twinkling the tree began to sputter and burn like a candle blown by the wind . 
Pinocchio saw the flames climb higher and higher . 
Not wishing to end his days as a roasted Marionette , he jumped quickly to the ground and off he went , the Assassins close to him , as before . 
Dawn was breaking when , without any warning whatsoever , Pinocchio found his path barred by a deep pool full of water the color of muddy coffee . 
What was there to do ? With a One , two , three ! he jumped clear across it . 
The Assassins jumped also , but not having measured their distance well splash ! ! ! they fell right into the middle of the pool . 
But there were the two somber figures still following him , though their black sacks were drenched and dripping with water . 
Suddenly he saw a little cottage gleaming white as the snow among the trees of the forest . 
If I have enough breath left with which to reach that little house , I may be saved , he said to himself . 
Not waiting another moment , he darted swiftly through the woods , the Assassins still after him . 
After a hard race of almost an hour , tired and out of breath , Pinocchio finally reached the door of the cottage and knocked . 
He knocked again , harder than before , for behind him he heard the steps and the labored breathing of his persecutors . 
As knocking was of no use , Pinocchio , in despair , began to kick and bang against the door , as if he wanted to break it . 
At the noise , a window opened and a lovely maiden looked out . 
She had azure hair and a face white as wax . 
Her eyes were closed and her hands crossed on her breast . 
With a voice so weak that it hardly could be heard , she whispered No one lives in this house . 
Won't you , at least , open the door for me ? cried Pinocchio in a beseeching voice . 
Dead ? What are you doing at the window , then ? I am waiting for the coffin to take me away . 
After these words , the little girl disappeared and the window closed without a sound . 
Oh , Lovely Maiden with Azure Hair , cried Pinocchio , open , I beg of you . 
Well , the Assassins asked , will you open your mouth now or not ? Ah ! You do not answer ? Very well , this time you shall open it . 
Taking out two long , sharp knives , they struck two heavy blows on the Marionette's back . 
Happily for him , Pinocchio was made of very hard wood and the knives broke into a thousand pieces . 
The Assassins looked at each other in dismay , holding the handles of the knives in their hands . 
I understand , said one of them to the other , there is nothing left to do now but to hang him . 
To hang him , repeated the other . 
They tied Pinocchio's hands behind his shoulders and slipped the noose around his neck . 
Throwing the rope over the high limb of a giant oak tree , they pulled till the poor Marionette hung far up in space . 
Satisfied with their work , they sat on the grass waiting for Pinocchio to give his last gasp . 
But after three hours the Marionette's eyes were still open , his mouth still shut and his legs kicked harder than ever . 
Tired of waiting , the Assassins called to him mockingly Good by till tomorrow . 
When we return in the morning , we hope you'll be polite enough to let us find you dead and gone and with your mouth wide open . 
With these words they went . 
A few minutes went by and then a wild wind started to blow . 
As it shrieked and moaned , the poor little sufferer was blown to and fro like the hammer of a bell . 
The rocking made him seasick and the noose , becoming tighter and tighter , choked him . 
Little by little a film covered his eyes . 
Death was creeping nearer and nearer , and the Marionette still hoped for some good soul to come to his rescue , but no one appeared . 
He closed his eyes , opened his mouth , stretched out his legs , and hung there , as if he were dead . 
Luckily for him , the Lovely Maiden with Azure Hair once again looked out of her window . 
Filled with pity at the sight of the poor little fellow being knocked helplessly about by the wind , she clapped her hands sharply together three times . 
At the signal , a loud whirr of wings in quick flight was heard and a large Falcon came and settled itself on the window ledge . 
Do you see that Marionette hanging from the limb of that giant oak tree ? I see him . 
With your strong beak , break the knot which holds him tied , take him down , and lay him softly on the grass at the foot of the oak . 
The Falcon flew away and after two minutes returned , saying , I have done what you have commanded . 
How did you find him ? Alive or dead ? At first glance , I thought he was dead . 
A magnificent Poodle appeared , walking on his hind legs just like a man . 
He was dressed in court livery . 
A tricorn trimmed with gold lace was set at a rakish angle over a wig of white curls that dropped down to his waist . 
Breeches of crimson velvet , silk stockings , and low , silver buckled slippers completed his costume . 
His tail was encased in a blue silk covering , which was to protect it from the rain . 
Come , Medoro , said the Fairy to him . 
Get my best coach ready and set out toward the forest . 
On reaching the oak tree , you will find a poor , half dead Marionette stretched out on the grass . 
Lift him up tenderly , place him on the silken cushions of the coach , and bring him here to me . 
The Poodle , to show that he understood , wagged his silk covered tail two or three times and set off at a quick pace . 
In a quarter of an hour the coach was back . 
One after another the doctors came , a Crow , and Owl , and a Talking Cricket . 
At this invitation , the Crow stepped out and felt Pinocchio's pulse , his nose , his little toe . 
I say that a wise doctor , when he does not know what he is talking about , should know enough to keep his mouth shut . 
However , that Marionette is not a stranger to me . 
I have known him a long time ! Pinocchio , who until then had been very quiet , shuddered so hard that the bed shook . 
That Marionette , continued the Talking Cricket , is a rascal of the worst kind . 
Pinocchio opened his eyes and closed them again . 
He is rude , lazy , a runaway . 
Pinocchio hid his face under the sheets . 
That Marionette is a disobedient son who is breaking his father's heart ! Long shuddering sobs were heard , cries , and deep sighs . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio eats sugar , but refuses to take medicine . 
When the undertakers come for him , he drinks the medicine and feels better . 
Pinocchio looked at the glass , made a wry face , and asked in a whining voice Is it sweet or bitter ? It is bitter , but it is good for you . 
If it is bitter , I don't want it . 
Drink it ! I don't like anything bitter . 
Drink it and I'll give you a lump of sugar to take the bitter taste from your mouth . 
Where's the sugar ? Here it is , said the Fairy , taking a lump from a golden sugar bowl . 
I want the sugar first , then I'll drink the bitter water . 
Do you promise ? Yes . 
Now keep your promise and drink these few drops of water . 
They'll be good for you . 
Pinocchio took the glass in both hands and stuck his nose into it . 
He lifted it to his mouth and once more stuck his nose into it . 
It is too bitter , much too bitter ! I can't drink it . 
How do you know , when you haven't even tasted it ? I can imagine it . 
I want another lump of sugar , then I'll drink it . 
The Fairy , with all the patience of a good mother , gave him more sugar and again handed him the glass . 
I can't drink it like that , the Marionette said , making more wry faces . 
Why ? Because that feather pillow on my feet bothers me . 
The Fairy took away the pillow . 
I can't drink it even now . 
What's the matter now ? I don't like the way that door looks . 
The Fairy closed the door . 
I won't drink it , cried Pinocchio , bursting out crying . 
I won't drink this awful water . 
I won't ! No , no , no , no ! My boy , you'll be sorry . 
In a few hours the fever will take you far away to another world . 
Aren't you afraid of death ? Not a bit . 
I'd rather die than drink that awful medicine . 
At that moment , the door of the room flew open and in came four Rabbits as black as ink , carrying a small black coffin on their shoulders . 
What do you want from me ? asked Pinocchio . 
We have come for you , said the largest Rabbit . 
Well , said the four Rabbits , this time we have made the trip for nothing . 
And turning on their heels , they marched solemnly out of the room , carrying their little black coffin and muttering and grumbling between their teeth . 
In a twinkling , Pinocchio felt fine . 
With one leap he was out of bed and into his clothes . 
What a shame ! Boys ought to know , after all , that medicine , taken in time , can save them from much pain and even from death . 
Next time I won't have to be begged so hard . 
And they said , Come with us to the Field of Wonders . 
And I said , Let's go . 
Then they said , Let us stop at the Inn of the Red Lobster for dinner and after midnight we'll set out again . 
We ate and went to sleep . 
When I awoke they were gone and I started out in the darkness all alone . 
One of them tried to put his hand in my mouth and I bit it off and spat it out but it wasn't a hand , it was a cat's paw . 
Where are the gold pieces now ? the Fairy asked . 
I lost them , answered Pinocchio , but he told a lie , for he had them in his pocket . 
As he spoke , his nose , long though it was , became at least two inches longer . 
And where did you lose them ? In the wood near by . 
At this second lie , his nose grew a few more inches . 
If you lost them in the near by wood , said the Fairy , we'll look for them and find them , for everything that is lost there is always found . 
Ah , now I remember , replied the Marionette , becoming more and more confused . 
I did not lose the gold pieces , but I swallowed them when I drank the medicine . 
At this third lie , his nose became longer than ever , so long that he could not even turn around . 
The Fairy sat looking at him and laughing . 
Why do you laugh ? the Marionette asked her , worried now at the sight of his growing nose . 
I am laughing at your lies . 
How do you know I am lying ? Lies , my boy , are known in a moment . 
There are two kinds of lies , lies with short legs and lies with long noses . 
Yours , just now , happen to have long noses . 
No matter how he tried , it would not go through the door . 
But when she saw him , pale with fright and with his eyes half out of his head from terror , she began to feel sorry for him and clapped her hands together . 
A thousand woodpeckers flew in through the window and settled themselves on Pinocchio's nose . 
They pecked and pecked so hard at that enormous nose that in a few moments , it was the same size as before . 
I should like to stay but what about my poor father ? I have thought of everything . 
Your father has been sent for and before night he will be here . 
Really ? cried Pinocchio joyfully . 
Then , my good Fairy , if you are willing , I should like to go to meet him . 
I cannot wait to kiss that dear old man , who has suffered so much for my sake . 
Surely go ahead , but be careful not to lose your way . 
Take the wood path and you'll surely meet him . 
Pinocchio set out , and as soon as he found himself in the wood , he ran like a hare . 
When he reached the giant oak tree he stopped , for he thought he heard a rustle in the brush . 
There stood the Fox and the Cat , the two traveling companions with whom he had eaten at the Inn of the Red Lobster . 
Here comes our dear Pinocchio ! cried the Fox , hugging and kissing him . 
How did you happen here ? How did you happen here ? repeated the Cat . 
It is a long story , said the Marionette . 
Let me tell it to you . 
Rascals ! said the Fox . 
The worst sort of rascals ! added the Cat . 
But I began to run , continued the Marionette , and they after me , until they overtook me and hanged me to the limb of that oak . 
Pinocchio pointed to the giant oak near by . 
Could anything be worse ? said the Fox . 
What happened to your paw ? he asked . 
The Cat tried to answer , but he became so terribly twisted in his speech that the Fox had to help him out . 
My friend is too modest to answer . 
About an hour ago , we met an old wolf on the road . 
He was half starved and begged for help . 
As he spoke , the Fox wiped off a tear . 
I am waiting for my father , who will be here at any moment now . 
And your gold pieces ? I still have them in my pocket , except one which I spent at the Inn of the Red Lobster . 
To think that those four gold pieces might become two thousand tomorrow . 
Why don't you listen to me ? Why don't you sow them in the Field of Wonders ? Today it is impossible . 
I'll go with you some other time . 
Another day will be too late , said the Fox . 
Why ? Because that field has been bought by a very rich man , and today is the last day that it will be open to the public . 
How far is this Field of Wonders ? Only two miles away . 
Will you come with us ? We'll be there in half an hour . 
You can sow the money , and , after a few minutes , you will gather your two thousand coins and return home rich . 
Are you coming ? Pinocchio hesitated a moment before answering , for he remembered the good Fairy , old Geppetto , and the advice of the Talking Cricket . 
Then he ended by doing what all boys do , when they have no heart and little brain . 
He shrugged his shoulders and said to the Fox and the Cat Let us go ! I am with you . 
They walked and walked for a half a day at least and at last they came to the town called the City of Simple Simons . 
Through this crowd of paupers and beggars , a beautiful coach passed now and again . 
Within it sat either a Fox , a Hawk , or a Vulture . 
Where is the Field of Wonders ? asked Pinocchio , growing tired of waiting . 
It is only a few more steps away . 
They passed through the city and , just outside the walls , they stepped into a lonely field , which looked more or less like any other field . 
Here we are , said the Fox to the Marionette . 
Dig a hole here and put the gold pieces into it . 
He dug the hole , put the four gold pieces into it , and covered them up very carefully . 
Now , said the Fox , go to that near by brook , bring back a pail full of water , and sprinkle it over the spot . 
Pinocchio followed the directions closely , but , as he had no pail , he pulled off his shoe , filled it with water , and sprinkled the earth which covered the gold . 
Then he asked Anything else ? Nothing else , answered the Fox . 
Return here within twenty minutes and you will find the vine grown and the branches filled with gold pieces . 
Pinocchio , beside himself with joy , thanked the Fox and the Cat many times and promised them each a beautiful gift . 
We don't want any of your gifts , answered the two rogues . 
It is enough for us that we have helped you to become rich with little or no trouble . 
For this we are as happy as kings . 
They said good by to Pinocchio and , wishing him good luck , went on their way . 
He walked impatiently to and fro and finally turned his nose toward the Field of Wonders . 
Thus amusing himself with fancies , he came to the field . 
There he stopped to see if , by any chance , a vine filled with gold coins was in sight . 
But he saw nothing ! He took a few steps forward , and still nothing ! He stepped into the field . 
He went up to the place where he had dug the hole and buried the gold pieces . 
Again nothing ! Pinocchio became very thoughtful and , forgetting his good manners altogether , he pulled a hand out of his pocket and gave his head a thorough scratching . 
As he did so , he heard a hearty burst of laughter close to his head . 
He turned sharply , and there , just above him on the branch of a tree , sat a large Parrot , busily preening his feathers . 
What are you laughing at ? Pinocchio asked peevishly . 
I am laughing because , in preening my feathers , I tickled myself under the wings . 
The Marionette did not answer . 
He walked to the brook , filled his shoe with water , and once more sprinkled the ground which covered the gold pieces . 
Another burst of laughter , even more impertinent than the first , was heard in the quiet field . 
I , too , believed that once and today I am very sorry for it . 
I have reached the conclusion that , in order to come by money honestly , one must work and know how to earn it with hand or brain . 
I don't know what you are talking about , said the Marionette , who was beginning to tremble with fear . 
Too bad ! I'll explain myself better , said the Parrot . 
While you were away in the city the Fox and the Cat returned here in a great hurry . 
They took the four gold pieces which you have buried and ran away as fast as the wind . 
If you can catch them , you're a brave one ! Pinocchio's mouth opened wide . 
He would not believe the Parrot's words and began to dig away furiously at the earth . 
He dug and he dug till the hole was as big as himself , but no money was there . 
In desperation , he ran to the city and went straight to the courthouse to report the robbery to the magistrate . 
The Judge was a Monkey , a large Gorilla venerable with age . 
A flowing white beard covered his chest and he wore gold rimmed spectacles from which the glasses had dropped out . 
The reason for wearing these , he said , was that his eyes had been weakened by the work of many years . 
Pinocchio , standing before him , told his pitiful tale , word by word . 
He gave the names and the descriptions of the robbers and begged for justice . 
The Judge listened to him with great patience . 
A kind look shone in his eyes . 
He became very much interested in the story he felt moved he almost wept . 
When the Marionette had no more to say , the Judge put out his hand and rang a bell . 
At the sound , two large Mastiffs appeared , dressed in Carabineers' uniforms . 
Then the magistrate , pointing to Pinocchio , said in a very solemn voice This poor simpleton has been robbed of four gold pieces . 
Take him , therefore , and throw him into prison . 
The Marionette , on hearing this sentence passed upon him , was thoroughly stunned . 
He tried to protest , but the two officers clapped their paws on his mouth and hustled him away to jail . 
There he had to remain for four long , weary months . 
And if it had not been for a very lucky chance , he probably would have had to stay there longer . 
If the others go , I go , too , said Pinocchio to the Jailer . 
Not you , answered the Jailer . 
You are one of those I beg your pardon , interrupted Pinocchio , I , too , am a thief . 
In that case you also are free , said the Jailer . 
Taking off his cap , he bowed low and opened the door of the prison , and Pinocchio ran out and away , with never a look backward . 
It had rained for many days , and the road was so muddy that , at times , Pinocchio sank down almost to his knees . 
But he kept on bravely . 
Tormented by the wish to see his father and his fairy sister with azure hair , he raced like a greyhound . 
As he ran , he was splashed with mud even up to his cap . 
How unhappy I have been , he said to himself . 
And yet I deserve everything , for I am certainly very stubborn and stupid ! I will always have my own way . 
I won't listen to those who love me and who have more brains than I. But from now on , I'll be different and I'll try to become a most obedient boy . 
I have found out , beyond any doubt whatever , that disobedient boys are certainly far from happy , and that , in the long run , they always lose out . 
I wonder if Father is waiting for me . 
Will I find him at the Fairy's house ? It is so long , poor man , since I have seen him , and I do so want his love and his kisses . 
Once more , in the same sweet voice , he spoke You must know , Mr. Serpent , that I am going home where my father is waiting for me . 
On the contrary , the green Serpent , who had seemed , until then , wide awake and full of life , became suddenly very quiet and still . 
His eyes closed and his tail stopped smoking . 
Is he dead , I wonder ? said Pinocchio , rubbing his hands together happily . 
He fell so awkwardly that his head stuck in the mud , and there he stood with his legs straight up in the air . 
Pinocchio freed himself from his awkward position and once more began to run in order to reach the Fairy's house before dark . 
As he went , the pangs of hunger grew so strong that , unable to withstand them , he jumped into a field to pick a few grapes that tempted him . 
Woe to him ! No sooner had he reached the grapevine than crack ! went his legs . 
The poor Marionette was caught in a trap set there by a Farmer for some Weasels which came every night to steal his chickens . 
He called to her and said Dear little Glowworm , will you set me free ? Poor little fellow ! replied the Glowworm , stopping to look at him with pity . 
Hunger , my boy , is no reason for taking something which belongs to another . 
It's true , it's true ! cried Pinocchio in tears . 
I won't do it again . 
Just then , the conversation was interrupted by approaching footsteps . 
It was the owner of the field , who was coming on tiptoes to see if , by chance , he had caught the Weasels which had been eating his chickens . 
So you are the one who steals my chickens ! Not I ! No , no ! cried Pinocchio , sobbing bitterly . 
I came here only to take a very few grapes . 
He who steals grapes may very easily steal chickens also . 
Take my word for it , I'll give you a lesson that you'll remember for a long while . 
He opened the trap , grabbed the Marionette by the collar , and carried him to the house as if he were a puppy . 
In the meantime , since my watchdog died today , you may take his place and guard my henhouse . 
No sooner said than done . 
He slipped a dog collar around Pinocchio's neck and tightened it so that it would not come off . 
A long iron chain was tied to the collar . 
The other end of the chain was nailed to the wall . 
If tonight it should happen to rain , said the Farmer , you can sleep in that little doghouse near by , where you will find plenty of straw for a soft bed . 
It has been Melampo's bed for three years , and it will be good enough for you . 
Poor Pinocchio huddled close to the doghouse more dead than alive from cold , hunger , and fright . 
I have never obeyed anyone and I have always done as I pleased . 
He stuck his nose out of the doghouse and saw four slender , hairy animals . 
They were Weasels , small animals very fond of both eggs and chickens . 
One of them left her companions and , going to the door of the doghouse , said in a sweet voice Good evening , Melampo . 
My name is not Melampo , answered Pinocchio . 
Who are you , then ? I am Pinocchio . 
What are you doing here ? I'm the watchdog . 
But where is Melampo ? Where is the old dog who used to live in this house ? He died this morning . 
Died ? Poor beast ! He was so good ! Still , judging by your face , I think you , too , are a good natured dog . 
I beg your pardon , I am not a dog ! What are you , then ? I am a Marionette . 
Are you taking the place of the watchdog ? I'm sorry to say that I am . 
Well , I shall make the same terms with you that we had with the dead Melampo . 
I am sure you will be glad to hear them . 
Of these , seven are for us , and one for you , provided , of course , that you will make believe you are sleeping and will not bark for the Farmer . 
Did Melampo really do that ? asked Pinocchio . 
Indeed he did , and because of that we were the best of friends . 
Sleep away peacefully , and remember that before we go we shall leave you a nice fat chicken all ready for your breakfast in the morning . 
Is that understood ? Even too well , answered Pinocchio . 
And shaking his head in a threatening manner , he seemed to say , We'll talk this over in a few minutes , my friends . 
As soon as the four Weasels had talked things over , they went straight to the chicken coop which stood close to the doghouse . 
Digging busily with teeth and claws , they opened the little door and slipped in . 
But they were no sooner in than they heard the door close with a sharp bang . 
The one who had done the trick was Pinocchio , who , not satisfied with that , dragged a heavy stone in front of it . 
That done , he started to bark . 
And he barked as if he were a real watchdog Bow , wow , wow ! Bow , wow ! The Farmer heard the loud barks and jumped out of bed . 
Taking his gun , he leaped to the window and shouted What's the matter ? The thieves are here , answered Pinocchio . 
Where are they ? In the chicken coop . 
I'll come down in a second . 
And , in fact , he was down in the yard in a twinkling and running toward the chicken coop . 
What is the use of accusing him ? The dead are gone and they cannot defend themselves . 
The best thing to do is to leave them in peace ! Were you awake or asleep when they came ? continued the Farmer . 
I was asleep , answered Pinocchio , but they awakened me with their whisperings . 
Fine boy ! cried the Farmer , slapping him on the shoulder in a friendly way . 
You ought to be proud of yourself . 
And to show you what I think of you , you are free from this instant ! And he slipped the dog collar from his neck . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio weeps upon learning that the Lovely Maiden with Azure Hair is dead . 
He meets a Pigeon , who carries him to the seashore . 
He became terribly frightened and , running as fast as he could , he finally came to the spot where it had once stood . 
The little house was no longer there . 
He fell to the ground and , covering the cold marble with kisses , burst into bitter tears . 
He cried all night , and dawn found him still there , though his tears had dried and only hard , dry sobs shook his wooden frame . 
But these were so loud that they could be heard by the faraway hills . 
Don't you feel sorry for me ? I'm so lonely . 
If the two Assassins come , they'll hang me again from the giant oak tree and I will really die , this time . 
Just then a large Pigeon flew far above him . 
Why , I am Pinocchio ! At this answer , the Pigeon flew swiftly down to the earth . 
He was much larger than a turkey . 
What was he doing ? He was building a little boat with which to cross the ocean . 
For the last four months , that poor man has been wandering around Europe , looking for you . 
Not having found you yet , he has made up his mind to look for you in the New World , far across the ocean . 
How far is it from here to the shore ? asked Pinocchio anxiously . 
Fifty miles ? Oh , dear Pigeon , how I wish I had your wings ! If you want to come , I'll take you with me . 
How ? Astride my back . 
Are you very heavy ? Heavy ? Not at all . 
The Pigeon flew away , and in a few minutes he had reached the clouds . 
The Marionette looked to see what was below them . 
His head swam and he was so frightened that he clutched wildly at the Pigeon's neck to keep himself from falling . 
Toward evening the Pigeon said I'm very thirsty ! And I'm very hungry ! said Pinocchio . 
Let us stop a few minutes at that pigeon coop down there . 
Then we can go on and be at the seashore in the morning . 
They went into the empty coop and there they found nothing but a bowl of water and a small basket filled with chick peas . 
The Marionette had always hated chick peas . 
According to him , they had always made him sick but that night he ate them with a relish . 
The next morning they were at the seashore . 
Pinocchio jumped off the Pigeon's back , and the Pigeon , not wanting any thanks for a kind deed , flew away swiftly and disappeared . 
The shore was full of people , shrieking and tearing their hair as they looked toward the sea . 
What has happened ? asked Pinocchio of a little old woman . 
A poor old father lost his only son some time ago and today he built a tiny boat for himself in order to go in search of him across the ocean . 
The water is very rough and we're afraid he will be drowned . 
Where is the little boat ? There . 
Straight down there , answered the little old woman , pointing to a tiny shadow , no bigger than a nutshell , floating on the sea . 
And Pinocchio , standing on a high rock , tired out with searching , waved to him with hand and cap and even with his nose . 
It looked as if Geppetto , though far away from the shore , recognized his son , for he took off his cap and waved also . 
He seemed to be trying to make everyone understand that he would come back if he were able , but the sea was so heavy that he could do nothing with his oars . 
Suddenly a huge wave came and the boat disappeared . 
They waited and waited for it , but it was gone . 
Poor man ! said the fisher folk on the shore , whispering a prayer as they turned to go home . 
Just then a desperate cry was heard . 
Now and again he disappeared only to reappear once more . 
In a twinkling , he was far away from land . 
At last he was completely lost to view . 
Poor boy ! cried the fisher folk on the shore , and again they mumbled a few prayers , as they returned home . 
And what a horrible night it was ! It poured rain , it hailed , it thundered , and the lightning was so bright that it turned the night into day . 
At dawn , he saw , not far away from him , a long stretch of sand . 
It was an island in the middle of the sea . 
Pinocchio tried his best to get there , but he couldn't . 
The waves played with him and tossed him about as if he were a twig or a bit of straw . 
At last , and luckily for him , a tremendous wave tossed him to the very spot where he wanted to be . 
The blow from the wave was so strong that , as he fell to the ground , his joints cracked and almost broke . 
But , nothing daunted , he jumped to his feet and cried Once more I have escaped with my life ! Little by little the sky cleared . 
The sun came out in full splendor and the sea became as calm as a lake . 
Then the Marionette took off his clothes and laid them on the sand to dry . 
He looked over the waters to see whether he might catch sight of a boat with a little man in it . 
He searched and he searched , but he saw nothing except sea and sky and far away a few sails , so small that they might have been birds . 
If only I knew the name of this island ! he said to himself . 
If I even knew what kind of people I would find here ! But whom shall I ask ? There is no one here . 
Will you please tell me if , on this island , there are places where one may eat without necessarily being eaten ? Surely , there are , answered the Dolphin . 
In fact you'll find one not far from this spot . 
And how shall I get there ? Take that path on your left and follow your nose . 
In the storm of last night , answered the Dolphin , the little boat must have been swamped . 
And my father ? By this time , he must have been swallowed by the Terrible Shark , which , for the last few days , has been bringing terror to these waters . 
Is this Shark very big ? asked Pinocchio , who was beginning to tremble with fright . 
Is he big ? replied the Dolphin . 
Mother mine ! cried the Marionette , scared to death and dressing himself as fast as he could , he turned to the Dolphin and said Farewell , Mr. Fish . 
Pardon the bother , and many thanks for your kindness . 
After walking a half hour , he came to a small country called the Land of the Busy Bees . 
The streets were filled with people running to and fro about their tasks . 
Everyone worked , everyone had something to do . 
Even if one were to search with a lantern , not one idle man or one tramp could have been found . 
I understand , said Pinocchio at once wearily , this is no place for me ! I was not born for work . 
But in the meantime , he began to feel hungry , for it was twenty four hours since he had eaten . 
What was to be done ? There were only two means left to him in order to get a bite to eat . 
He had either to work or to beg . 
He was ashamed to beg , because his father had always preached to him that begging should be done only by the sick or the old . 
All others should work , and if they didn't , and went hungry , so much the worse for them . 
Just then a man passed by , worn out and wet with perspiration , pulling , with difficulty , two heavy carts filled with coal . 
I'll give you four if you will help me pull these two wagons . 
I am surprised ! answered the Marionette , very much offended . 
I wish you to know that I never have been a donkey , nor have I ever pulled a wagon . 
So much the better for you ! answered the Coal Man . 
Then , my boy , if you are really faint with hunger , eat two slices of your pride and I hope they don't give you indigestion . 
A few minutes after , a Bricklayer passed by , carrying a pail full of plaster on his shoulder . 
Good man , will you be kind enough to give a penny to a poor boy who is yawning from hunger ? Gladly , answered the Bricklayer . 
Come with me and carry some plaster , and instead of one penny , I'll give you five . 
But the plaster is heavy , answered Pinocchio , and the work too hard for me . 
Good woman , will you allow me to have a drink from one of your jugs ? asked Pinocchio , who was burning up with thirst . 
With pleasure , my boy ! she answered , setting the two jugs on the ground before him . 
When Pinocchio had had his fill , he grumbled , as he wiped his mouth My thirst is gone . 
Pinocchio looked at the jug and said neither yes nor no . 
And with the bread , I'll give you a nice dish of cauliflower with white sauce on it . 
Pinocchio gave the jug another look and said neither yes nor no . 
And after the cauliflower , some cake and jam . 
At this last bribery , Pinocchio could no longer resist and said firmly Very well . 
I'll take the jug home for you . 
The jug was very heavy , and the Marionette , not being strong enough to carry it with his hands , had to put it on his head . 
When they arrived home , the little woman made Pinocchio sit down at a small table and placed before him the bread , the cauliflower , and the cake . 
Pinocchio did not eat he devoured . 
His stomach seemed a bottomless pit . 
His hunger finally appeased , he raised his head to thank his kind benefactress . 
Why all this surprise ? asked the good woman , laughing . 
You rascal of a Marionette ! How did you know it was I ? she asked , laughing . 
My love for you told me who you were . 
Do you remember ? You left me when I was a little girl and now you find me a grown woman . 
I am so old , I could almost be your mother ! I am very glad of that , for then I can call you mother instead of sister . 
For a long time I have wanted a mother , just like other boys . 
But how did you grow so quickly ? That's a secret ! Tell it to me . 
I also want to grow a little . 
Look at me ! I have never grown higher than a penny's worth of cheese . 
But you can't grow , answered the Fairy . 
Why not ? Because Marionettes never grow . 
They are born Marionettes , they live Marionettes , and they die Marionettes . 
Oh , I'm tired of always being a Marionette ! cried Pinocchio disgustedly . 
It's about time for me to grow into a man as everyone else does . 
And you will if you deserve it Really ? What can I do to deserve it ? It's a very simple matter . 
Try to act like a well behaved child . 
Don't you think I do ? Far from it ! Good boys are obedient , and you , on the contrary And I never obey . 
Good boys love study and work , but you And I , on the contrary , am a lazy fellow and a tramp all year round . 
Good boys always tell the truth . 
And I always tell lies . 
Good boys go gladly to school . 
And I get sick if I go to school . 
From now on I'll be different . 
Do you promise ? I promise . 
I want to become a good boy and be a comfort to my father . 
Where is my poor father now ? I do not know . 
Will I ever be lucky enough to find him and embrace him once more ? I think so . 
Indeed , I am sure of it . 
At this answer , Pinocchio's happiness was very great . 
He grasped the Fairy's hands and kissed them so hard that it looked as if he had lost his head . 
If you only knew how I suffered and how I wept when I read Here lies I know it , and for that I have forgiven you . 
The depth of your sorrow made me see that you have a kind heart . 
There is always hope for boys with hearts such as yours , though they may often be very mischievous . 
This is the reason why I have come so far to look for you . 
From now on , I'll be your own little mother . 
Oh ! How lovely ! cried Pinocchio , jumping with joy . 
You will obey me always and do as I wish ? Gladly , very gladly , more than gladly ! Beginning tomorrow , said the Fairy , you'll go to school every day . 
Pinocchio's face fell a little . 
Then you will choose the trade you like best . 
What are you mumbling to yourself ? asked the Fairy . 
I was just saying , whined the Marionette in a whisper , that it seems too late for me to go to school now . 
Remember it is never too late to learn . 
But I don't want either trade or profession . 
Why ? Because work wearies me ! My dear boy , said the Fairy , people who speak as you do usually end their days either in a prison or in a hospital . 
A man , remember , whether rich or poor , should do something in this world . 
No one can find happiness without work . 
Woe betide the lazy fellow ! Laziness is a serious illness and one must cure it immediately yes , even from early childhood . 
If not , it will kill you in the end . 
These words touched Pinocchio's heart . 
He lifted his eyes to his Fairy and said seriously I'll work I'll study I'll do all you tell me . 
After all , the life of a Marionette has grown very tiresome to me and I want to become a boy , no matter how hard it is . 
You promise that , do you not ? Yes , I promise , and now it is up to you . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio goes to the seashore with his friends to see the Terrible Shark In the morning , bright and early , Pinocchio started for school . 
Imagine what the boys said when they saw a Marionette enter the classroom ! They laughed until they cried . 
Everyone played tricks on him . 
One pulled his hat off , another tugged at his coat , a third tried to paint a mustache under his nose . 
One even attempted to tie strings to his feet and his hands to make him dance . 
For a while Pinocchio was very calm and quiet . 
Finally , however , he lost all patience and turning to his tormentors , he said to them threateningly Careful , boys , I haven't come here to be made fun of . 
I'll respect you and I want you to respect me . 
Know all ! You have spoken like a printed book ! howled the boys , bursting with laughter . 
One of them , more impudent than the rest , put out his hand to pull the Marionette's nose . 
But he was not quick enough , for Pinocchio stretched his leg under the table and kicked him hard on the shin . 
Oh , what hard feet ! cried the boy , rubbing the spot where the Marionette had kicked him . 
And what elbows ! They are even harder than the feet ! shouted another one , who , because of some other trick , had received a blow in the stomach . 
With that kick and that blow Pinocchio gained everybody's favor . 
Everyone admired him , danced attendance upon him , petted and caressed him . 
Pinocchio's only fault was that he had too many friends . 
Among these were many well known rascals , who cared not a jot for study or for success . 
Some day they will lead you astray . 
There's no such danger , answered the Marionette , shrugging his shoulders and pointing to his forehead as if to say , I'm too wise . 
Really ? I wonder if it could be the same one I heard of when my father was drowned ? We are going to see it . 
Are you coming ? No , not I. I must go to school . 
What do you care about school ? You can go there tomorrow . 
With a lesson more or less , we are always the same donkeys . 
And what will the teacher say ? Let him talk . 
He is paid to grumble all day long . 
And my mother ? Mothers don't know anything , answered those scamps . 
Do you know what I'll do ? said Pinocchio . 
For certain reasons of mine , I , too , want to see that Shark but I'll go after school . 
I can see him then as well as now . 
Poor simpleton ! cried one of the boys . 
Do you think that a fish of that size will stand there waiting for you ? He turns and off he goes , and no one will ever be the wiser . 
How long does it take from here to the shore ? asked the Marionette . 
One hour there and back . 
Let's see who gets there first ! cried Pinocchio . 
At the signal , the little troop , with books under their arms , dashed across the fields . 
Pinocchio led the way , running as if on wings , the others following as fast as they could . 
Now and again , he looked back and , seeing his followers hot and tired , and with tongues hanging out , he laughed out heartily . 
Unhappy boy ! If he had only known then the dreadful things that were to happen to him on account of his disobedience ! CHAPTER The great battle between Pinocchio and his playmates . 
Pinocchio is arrested Going like the wind , Pinocchio took but a very short time to reach the shore . 
He glanced all about him , but there was no sign of a Shark . 
The sea was as smooth as glass . 
Hey there , boys ! Where's that Shark ? he asked , turning to his playmates . 
He may have gone for his breakfast , said one of them , laughing . 
Or , perhaps , he went to bed for a little nap , said another , laughing also . 
From the answers and the laughter which followed them , Pinocchio understood that the boys had played a trick on him . 
What now ? he said angrily to them . 
What's the joke ? Oh , the joke's on you ! cried his tormentors , laughing more heartily than ever , and dancing gayly around the Marionette . 
And that is ? That we have made you stay out of school to come with us . 
Aren't you ashamed of being such a goody goody , and of studying so hard ? You never have a bit of enjoyment . 
After all , it's only fair to look out for ourselves . 
What do you want me to do ? Hate school and books and teachers , as we all do . 
They are your worst enemies , you know , and they like to make you as unhappy as they can . 
And if I go on studying , what will you do to me ? You'll pay for it ! Really , you amuse me , answered the Marionette , nodding his head . 
Hey , Pinocchio , cried the tallest of them all , that will do . 
Like the seven sins , said Pinocchio , still laughing . 
Did you hear that ? He has insulted us all . 
He has called us sins . 
Pinocchio , apologize for that , or look out ! Cuck oo ! said the Marionette , mocking them with his thumb to his nose . 
And with the words , he gave Pinocchio a terrible blow on the head . 
Pinocchio answered with another blow , and that was the signal for the beginning of the fray . 
In a few moments , the fight raged hot and heavy on both sides . 
Pinocchio , although alone , defended himself bravely . 
With those two wooden feet of his , he worked so fast that his opponents kept at a respectful distance . 
Wherever they landed , they left their painful mark and the boys could only run away and howl . 
Enraged at not being able to fight the Marionette at close quarters , they started to throw all kinds of books at him . 
Readers , geographies , histories , grammars flew in all directions . 
But Pinocchio was keen of eye and swift of movement , and the books only passed over his head , landed in the sea , and disappeared . 
The fish , thinking they might be good to eat , came to the top of the water in great numbers . 
Trouble is sure to come to you ! Poor Crab ! He might as well have spoken to the wind . 
Go to bed and sleep ! You will feel better in the morning . 
In the meantime , the boys , having used all their books , looked around for new ammunition . 
Seeing Pinocchio's bundle lying idle near by , they somehow managed to get hold of it . 
One of the books was a very large volume , an arithmetic text , heavily bound in leather . 
Among all his books , he liked that one the best . 
Thinking it would make a fine missile , one of the boys took hold of it and threw it with all his strength at Pinocchio's head . 
At the sight of that pale little corpse , the boys were so frightened that they turned tail and ran . 
In a few moments , all had disappeared . 
Believe me , I didn't do it . 
Open your eyes , Eugene ? If you keep them shut , I'll die , too . 
But I'm stubborn and proud . 
I listen , but always I do as I wish . 
Again and again he called to his little friend , when suddenly he heard heavy steps approaching . 
He looked up and saw two tall Carabineers near him . 
What are you doing stretched out on the ground ? they asked Pinocchio . 
I'm helping this schoolfellow of mine . 
Has he fainted ? I should say so , said one of the Carabineers , bending to look at Eugene . 
This boy has been wounded on the temple . 
Who has hurt him ? Not I , stammered the Marionette , who had hardly a breath left in his whole body . 
If it wasn't you , who was it , then ? Not I , repeated Pinocchio . 
And with what was he wounded ? With this book , and the Marionette picked up the arithmetic text to show it to the officer . 
And whose book is this ? Mine . 
Not another word ! Get up as quickly as you can and come along with us . 
But I Come with us ! But I am innocent . 
Take him home and bind his wounds . 
Tomorrow we'll come after him . 
The Marionette walked swiftly along the road to the village . 
But the poor fellow hardly knew what he was about . 
He thought he had a nightmare . 
His eyes saw everything double , his legs trembled , his tongue was dry , and , try as he might , he could not utter a single word . 
Yet , in spite of this numbness of feeling , he suffered keenly at the thought of passing under the windows of his good little Fairy's house . 
Would you allow me , the Marionette asked the Carabineers , to run after my cap ? Very well , go but hurry . 
The Marionette went , picked up his cap but instead of putting it on his head , he stuck it between his teeth and then raced toward the sea . 
He went like a bullet out of a gun . 
The Carabineers , judging that it would be very difficult to catch him , sent a large Mastiff after him , one that had won first prize in all the dog races . 
Pinocchio ran fast and the Dog ran faster . 
At so much noise , the people hung out of the windows or gathered in the street , anxious to see the end of the contest . 
But they were disappointed , for the Dog and Pinocchio raised so much dust on the road that , after a few moments , it was impossible to see them . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio runs the danger of being fried in a pan like a fish During that wild chase , Pinocchio lived through a terrible moment when he almost gave himself up as lost . 
, in a frenzy of running , came so near that he was on the very point of reaching him . 
The Marionette heard , close behind him , the labored breathing of the beast who was fast on his trail , and now and again even felt his hot breath blow over him . 
Luckily , by this time , he was very near the shore , and the sea was in sight in fact , only a few short steps away . 
As soon as he set foot on the beach , Pinocchio gave a leap and fell into the water . 
Alidoro tried to stop , but as he was running very fast , he couldn't , and he , too , landed far out in the sea . 
Strange though it may seem , the Dog could not swim . 
He beat the water with his paws to hold himself up , but the harder he tried , the deeper he sank . 
The poor Dog was so weak he could not stand . 
He had swallowed so much salt water that he was swollen like a balloon . 
However , Pinocchio , not wishing to trust him too much , threw himself once again into the sea . 
As he swam away , he called out Good by , Alidoro , good luck and remember me to the family ! Good by , little Pinocchio , answered the Dog . 
A thousand thanks for having saved me from death . 
You did me a good turn , and , in this world , what is given is always returned . 
If the chance comes , I shall be there . 
Pinocchio went on swimming close to shore . 
At last he thought he had reached a safe place . 
Glancing up and down the beach , he saw the opening of a cave out of which rose a spiral of smoke . 
In that cave , he said to himself , there must be a fire . 
He tried to escape , but he was too late . 
To his great surprise , he found himself in a huge net , amid a crowd of fish of all kinds and sizes , who were fighting and struggling desperately to free themselves . 
At the same time , he saw a Fisherman come out of the cave , a Fisherman so ugly that Pinocchio thought he was a sea monster . 
In place of hair , his head was covered by a thick bush of green grass . 
Green was the skin of his body , green were his eyes , green was the long , long beard that reached down to his feet . 
He looked like a giant lizard with legs and arms . 
The Fisherman took the net and the fish to the cave , a dark , gloomy , smoky place . 
In the middle of it , a pan full of oil sizzled over a smoky fire , sending out a repelling odor of tallow that took away one's breath . 
Now , let's see what kind of fish we have caught today , said the Green Fisherman . 
He put a hand as big as a spade into the net and pulled out a handful of mullets . 
Fine mullets , these ! he said , after looking at them and smelling them with pleasure . 
After that , he threw them into a large , empty tub . 
Many times he repeated this performance . 
The last to come out of the net was Pinocchio . 
He looked at him closely and after turning him over and over , he said at last I understand . 
He must be a crab ! Pinocchio , mortified at being taken for a crab , said resentfully What nonsense ! A crab indeed ! I am no such thing . 
Beware how you deal with me ! I am a Marionette , I want you to know . 
A Marionette ? asked the Fisherman . 
I must admit that a Marionette fish is , for me , an entirely new kind of fish . 
I'll eat you with greater relish . 
And that is That , as a sign of my particular esteem , I'll leave to you the choice of the manner in which you are to be cooked . 
I'll fry you in the pan with the others . 
I know you'll like it . 
It's always a comfort to find oneself in good company . 
The unlucky Marionette , hearing this , began to cry and wail and beg . 
Then he pulled a wooden bowl full of flour out of a cupboard and started to roll the fish into it , one by one . 
When they were white with it , he threw them into the pan . 
The first to dance in the hot oil were the mullets , the bass followed , then the whitefish , the flounders , and the anchovies . 
he began to tremble so with fright that he had no voice left with which to beg for his life . 
The poor boy beseeched only with his eyes . 
But the Green Fisherman , not even noticing that it was he , turned him over and over in the flour until he looked like a Marionette made of chalk . 
A wonderful party of coffee and milk to celebrate the great event Mindful of what the Fisherman had said , Pinocchio knew that all hope of being saved had gone . 
He closed his eyes and waited for the final moment . 
Suddenly , a large Dog , attracted by the odor of the boiling oil , came running into the cave . 
Get out ! cried the Fisherman threateningly and still holding onto the Marionette , who was all covered with flour . 
But the poor Dog was very hungry , and whining and wagging his tail , he tried to say Give me a bite of the fish and I'll go in peace . 
Get out , I say ! repeated the Fisherman . 
And he drew back his foot to give the Dog a kick . 
Then the Dog , who , being really hungry , would take no refusal , turned in a rage toward the Fisherman and bared his terrible fangs . 
And at that moment , a pitiful little voice was heard saying Save me , Alidoro if you don't , I fry ! The Dog immediately recognized Pinocchio's voice . 
Great was his surprise to find that the voice came from the little flour covered bundle that the Fisherman held in his hand . 
Meanwhile , Alidoro , as soon as he had found the road which led to the village , stopped and dropped Pinocchio softly to the ground . 
How much I do thank you ! said the Marionette . 
It is not necessary , answered the Dog . 
You saved me once , and what is given is always returned . 
We are in this world to help one another . 
But how did you get in that cave ? I was lying here on the sand more dead than alive , when an appetizing odor of fried fish came to me . 
That odor tickled my hunger and I followed it . 
Oh , if I had come a moment later ! Don't speak about it , wailed Pinocchio , still trembling with fright . 
If you had come a moment later , I would be fried , eaten , and digested by this time . 
Brrrrrr ! I shiver at the mere thought of it . 
Alidoro laughingly held out his paw to the Marionette , who shook it heartily , feeling that now he and the Dog were good friends . 
Then they bid each other good by and the Dog went home . 
No , he is now alive and he has already returned home . 
Really ? Really ? cried the Marionette , jumping around with joy . 
Then the wound was not serious ? But it might have been and even mortal , answered the old man , for a heavy book was thrown at his head . 
And who threw it ? A schoolmate of his , a certain Pinocchio . 
And who is this Pinocchio ? asked the Marionette , feigning ignorance . 
They say he is a mischief maker , a tramp , a street urchin Calumnies ! All calumnies ! Do you know this Pinocchio ? By sight ! answered the Marionette . 
And what do you think of him ? asked the old man . 
Scared out of his wits , he cried out Don't listen to me , good man ! All the wonderful things I have said are not true at all . 
At this speech , his nose returned to its natural size . 
Why are you so pale ? the old man asked suddenly . 
Without knowing it , I rubbed myself against a newly painted wall , he lied , ashamed to say that he had been made ready for the frying pan . 
What have you done with your coat and your hat and your breeches ? I met thieves and they robbed me . 
If you want it , take it . 
Pinocchio did not wait for him to repeat his words . 
Lightly clad as he was , he started out toward the village . 
Along the way he felt very uneasy . 
Oh , no , she won't . 
And I deserve it , as usual ! For I am a rascal , fine on promises which I never keep ! He came to the village late at night . 
It was so dark he could see nothing and it was raining pitchforks . 
Pinocchio went straight to the Fairy's house , firmly resolved to knock at the door . 
When he found himself there , he lost courage and ran back a few steps . 
A second time he came to the door and again he ran back . 
A third time he repeated his performance . 
The fourth time , before he had time to lose his courage , he grasped the knocker and made a faint sound with it . 
He waited and waited and waited . 
opened and Pinocchio saw a large Snail look out . 
A tiny light glowed on top of her head . 
Who knocks at this late hour ? she called . 
Is the Fairy home ? asked the Marionette . 
The Fairy is asleep and does not wish to be disturbed . 
Who are you ? It is I. Who's I ? Pinocchio . 
Who is Pinocchio ? The Marionette the one who lives in the Fairy's house . 
Oh , I understand , said the Snail . 
I'll come down to open the door for you . 
Hurry , I beg of you , for I am dying of cold . 
My boy , I am a snail and snails are never in a hurry . 
An hour passed , two hours and the door was still closed . 
Pinocchio , who was trembling with fear and shivering from the cold rain on his back , knocked a second time , this time louder than before . 
At that second knock , a window on the third floor opened and the same Snail looked out . 
Dear little Snail , cried Pinocchio from the street . 
I have been waiting two hours for you ! And two hours on a dreadful night like this are as long as two years . 
Hurry , please ! My boy , answered the Snail in a calm , peaceful voice , my dear boy , I am a snail and snails are never in a hurry . 
A few minutes later midnight struck then one o'clock two o'clock . 
And the door still remained closed ! Then Pinocchio , losing all patience , grabbed the knocker with both hands , fully determined to awaken the whole house and street with it . 
As soon as he touched the knocker , however , it became an eel and wiggled away into the darkness . 
Really ? cried Pinocchio , blind with rage . 
If the knocker is gone , I can still use my feet . 
He stepped back and gave the door a most solemn kick . 
He kicked so hard that his foot went straight through the door and his leg followed almost to the knee . 
No matter how he pulled and tugged , he could not pull it out . 
There he stayed as if nailed to the door . 
Poor Pinocchio ! The rest of the night he had to spend with one foot through the door and the other one in the air . 
As dawn was breaking , the door finally opened . 
That brave little animal , the Snail , had taken exactly nine hours to go from the fourth floor to the street . 
How she must have raced ! What are you doing with your foot through the door ? she asked the Marionette , laughing . 
Won't you try , pretty little Snail , to free me from this terrible torture ? My boy , we need a carpenter here and I have never been one . 
Ask the Fairy to help me ! The Fairy is asleep and does not want to be disturbed . 
But what do you want me to do , nailed to the door like this ? Enjoy yourself counting the ants which are passing by . 
Bring me something to eat , at least , for I am faint with hunger . 
Immediately ! In fact , after three hours and a half , Pinocchio saw her return with a silver tray on her head . 
On the tray there was bread , roast chicken , fruit . 
Here is the breakfast the Fairy sends to you , said the Snail . 
At the sight of all these good things , the Marionette felt much better . 
Instead , either from pain or weakness , he fell to the floor in a dead faint . 
When he regained his senses , he found himself stretched out on a sofa and the Fairy was seated near him . 
This time also I forgive you , said the Fairy to him . 
But be careful not to get into mischief again . 
Pinocchio promised to study and to behave himself . 
And he kept his word for the remainder of the year . 
At the end of it , he passed first in all his examinations , and his report was so good that the Fairy said to him happily Tomorrow your wish will come true . 
And what is it ? Tomorrow you will cease to be a Marionette and will become a real boy . 
Pinocchio was beside himself with joy . 
The day promised to be a very gay and happy one , but Unluckily , in a Marionette's life there's always a BUT which is apt to spoil everything . 
Indeed , you may invite your friends to tomorrow's party . 
Only remember to return home before dark . 
Do you understand ? I'll be back in one hour without fail , answered the Marionette . 
Take care , Pinocchio ! Boys give promises very easily , but they as easily forget them . 
But I am not like those others . 
When I give my word I keep it . 
In case you do disobey , you will be the one to suffer , not anyone else . 
Why ? Because boys who do not listen to their elders always come to grief . 
I certainly have , said Pinocchio , but from now on , I obey . 
We shall see if you are telling the truth . 
Without adding another word , the Marionette bade the good Fairy good by , and singing and dancing , he left the house . 
In a little more than an hour , all his friends were invited . 
Some accepted quickly and gladly . 
Now it must be known that , among all his friends , Pinocchio had one whom he loved most of all . 
The boy's real name was Romeo , but everyone called him Lamp Wick , for he was long and thin and had a woebegone look about him . 
Lamp Wick was the laziest boy in the school and the biggest mischief maker , but Pinocchio loved him dearly . 
That day , he went straight to his friend's house to invite him to the party , but Lamp Wick was not at home . 
He went a second time , and again a third , but still without success . 
Where could he be ? Pinocchio searched here and there and everywhere , and finally discovered him hiding near a farmer's wagon . 
What are you doing there ? asked Pinocchio , running up to him . 
May it bring you luck ! Shall I see you at my party tomorrow ? But I'm telling you that I go tonight . 
At what time ? At midnight . 
And where are you going ? To a real country the best in the world a wonderful place ! What is it called ? It is called the Land of Toys . 
Why don't you come , too ? I ? Oh , no ! You are making a big mistake , Pinocchio . 
Believe me , if you don't come , you'll be sorry . 
Here , it is only on Saturdays that we have no school . 
In the Land of Toys , every day , except Sunday , is a Saturday . 
Vacation begins on the first of January and ends on the last day of December . 
At night one goes to bed , and next morning , the good times begin all over again . 
What do you think of it ? H'm ! said Pinocchio , nodding his wooden head , as if to say , It's the kind of life which would agree with me perfectly . 
Do you want to go with me , then ? Yes or no ? You must make up your mind . 
No , no , and again no ! I have promised my kind Fairy to become a good boy , and I want to keep my word . 
Just see The sun is setting and I must leave you and run . 
Good by and good luck to you ! Where are you going in such a hurry ? Home . 
My good Fairy wants me to return home before night . 
It's too late ! Only two minutes . 
And if the Fairy scolds me ? Let her scold . 
After she gets tired , she will stop , said Lamp Wick . 
How I wish midnight would strike ! Why ? To see you all set out together . 
Stay here a while longer and you will see us ! No , no . 
I want to return home . 
I have waited too long as it is . 
The Fairy will be worried . 
Not even one teacher ? Not one . 
And one does not have to study ? Never , never , never ! What a great land ! said Pinocchio , feeling his mouth water . 
What a beautiful land ! I have never been there , but I can well imagine it . 
Good by , then , and remember me to the grammar schools , to the high schools , and even to the colleges if you meet them on the way . 
Good by , Lamp Wick . 
Have a pleasant trip , enjoy yourself , and remember your friends once in a while . 
With these words , the Marionette started on his way home . 
Then , in sudden determination , he said hurriedly Good by for the last time , and good luck . 
How soon will you go ? Within two hours . 
What a pity ! If it were only one hour , I might wait for you . 
And the Fairy ? By this time I'm late , and one hour more or less makes very little difference . 
Poor Pinocchio ! And if the Fairy scolds you ? Oh , I'll let her scold . 
After she gets tired , she will stop . 
In the meantime , the night became darker and darker . 
All at once in the distance a small light flickered . 
A queer sound could be heard , soft as a little bell , and faint and muffled like the buzz of a far away mosquito . 
There it is ! cried Lamp Wick , jumping to his feet . 
The wagon which is coming to get me . 
It made no noise , for its wheels were bound with straw and rags . 
It was drawn by twelve pair of donkeys , all of the same size , but all of different color . 
Some were gray , others white , and still others a mixture of brown and black . 
Here and there were a few with large yellow and blue stripes . 
In fact the wagon was so closely packed with boys of all ages that it looked like a box of sardines . 
They were uncomfortable , they were piled one on top of the other , they could hardly breathe yet not one word of complaint was heard . 
No sooner had the wagon stopped than the little fat man turned to Lamp Wick . 
With bows and smiles , he asked in a wheedling tone Tell me , my fine boy , do you also want to come to my wonderful country ? Indeed I do . 
But I warn you , my little dear , there's no more room in the wagon . 
Never mind , answered Lamp Wick . 
If there's no room inside , I can sit on the top of the coach . 
And with one leap , he perched himself there . 
What about you , my love ? asked the Little Man , turning politely to Pinocchio . 
What are you going to do ? Will you come with us , or do you stay here ? I stay here , answered Pinocchio . 
I want to return home , as I prefer to study and to succeed in life . 
May that bring you luck ! Pinocchio ! Lamp Wick called out . 
Come with us and we'll always be happy . 
No , no , no ! Come with us and we'll always be happy , cried four other voices from the wagon . 
Come with us and we'll always be happy , shouted the one hundred and more boys in the wagon , all together . 
And if I go with you , what will my good Fairy say ? asked the Marionette , who was beginning to waver and weaken in his good resolutions . 
Only think that we are going to a land where we shall be allowed to make all the racket we like from morning till night . 
Pinocchio did not answer , but sighed deeply once twice a third time . 
Finally , he said Make room for me . 
And you ? I'll walk . 
I could not permit such a thing . 
I much prefer riding one of these donkeys , cried Pinocchio . 
No sooner said than done . 
He approached the first donkey and tried to mount it . 
But the little animal turned suddenly and gave him such a terrible kick in the stomach that Pinocchio was thrown to the ground and fell with his legs in the air . 
At this unlooked for entertainment , the whole company of runaways laughed uproariously . 
The little fat man did not laugh . 
He went up to the rebellious animal , and , still smiling , bent over him lovingly and bit off half of his right ear . 
In the meantime , Pinocchio lifted himself up from the ground , and with one leap landed on the donkey's back . 
The leap was so well taken that all the boys shouted , Hurrah for Pinocchio ! and clapped their hands in hearty applause . 
Again the boys shouted with laughter . 
But the Little Man , instead of laughing , became so loving toward the little animal that , with another kiss , he bit off half of his left ear . 
You can mount now , my boy , he then said to Pinocchio . 
That donkey was worried about something , but I have spoken to him and now he seems quiet and reasonable . 
Pinocchio mounted and the wagon started on its way . 
While the donkeys galloped along the stony road , the Marionette fancied he heard a very quiet voice whispering to him Poor silly ! You have done as you wished . 
But you are going to be a sorry boy before very long . 
Pinocchio , greatly frightened , looked about him to see whence the words had come , but he saw no one . 
and the little , fat driver sang sleepily between his teeth . 
He jumped to the ground , ran up to the donkey on whose back he had been riding , and taking his nose in his hands , looked at him . 
Think how great was his surprise when he saw that the donkey was weeping weeping just like a boy ! Hey , Mr. Driver ! cried the Marionette . 
Do you know what strange thing is happening here ! This donkey weeps . 
When he gets married , he will have time to laugh . 
Have you perhaps taught him to speak ? No , he learned to mumble a few words when he lived for three years with a band of trained dogs . 
Poor beast ! Come , come , said the Little Man , do not lose time over a donkey that can weep . 
Mount quickly and let us go . 
The night is cool and the road is long . 
Pinocchio obeyed without another word . 
Toward dawn the next morning they finally reached that much longed for country , the Land of Toys . 
This great land was entirely different from any other place in the world . 
Its population , large though it was , was composed wholly of boys . 
The oldest were about fourteen years of age , the youngest , eight . 
In the street , there was such a racket , such shouting , such blowing of trumpets , that it was deafening . 
Everywhere groups of boys were gathered together . 
Some played at marbles , at hopscotch , at ball . 
Others rode on bicycles or on wooden horses . 
Some played at blindman's buff , others at tag . 
Here a group played circus , there another sang and recited . 
A few turned somersaults , others walked on their hands with their feet in the air . 
Generals in full uniform leading regiments of cardboard soldiers passed by . 
Laughter , shrieks , howls , catcalls , hand clapping followed this parade . 
One boy made a noise like a hen , another like a rooster , and a third imitated a lion in his den . 
All together they created such a pandemonium that it would have been necessary for you to put cotton in your ears . 
They wandered everywhere , they looked into every nook and corner , house and theater . 
Who could be happier than they ? What with entertainments and parties , the hours , the days , the weeks passed like lightning . 
Oh , what a beautiful life this is ! said Pinocchio each time that , by chance , he met his friend Lamp Wick . 
Was I right or wrong ? answered Lamp Wick . 
Do you admit it ? Only true friends count , after all . 
It's true , Lamp Wick , it's true . 
If today I am a really happy boy , it is all because of you . 
Poor teacher ! answered the other , nodding his head . 
Indeed I know how much he disliked me and how he enjoyed speaking ill of me . 
But I am of a generous nature , and I gladly forgive him . 
Great soul ! said Pinocchio , fondly embracing his friend . 
Five months passed and the boys continued playing and enjoying themselves from morn till night , without ever seeing a book , or a desk , or a school . 
But , my children , there came a morning when Pinocchio awoke and found a great surprise awaiting him , a surprise which made him feel very unhappy , as you shall see . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio's ears become like those of a Donkey . 
In a little while he changes into a real Donkey and begins to bray Everyone , at one time or another , has found some surprise awaiting him . 
Of the kind which Pinocchio had on that eventful morning of his life , there are but few . 
What was it ? I will tell you , my dear little readers . 
There he saw what he never could have wished to see . 
His manly figure was adorned and enriched by a beautiful pair of donkey's ears . 
I leave you to think of the terrible grief , the shame , the despair of the poor Marionette . 
He began to cry , to scream , to knock his head against the wall , but the more he shrieked , the longer and the more hairy grew his ears . 
At those piercing shrieks , a Dormouse came into the room , a fat little Dormouse , who lived upstairs . 
Feel mine then and tell me if I have a fever . 
What is it ? You have a very bad fever . 
But what fever is it ? The donkey fever . 
I don't know anything about that fever , answered the Marionette , beginning to understand even too well what was happening to him . 
Then I will tell you all about it , said the Dormouse . 
Know then that , within two or three hours , you will no longer be a Marionette , nor a boy . 
What shall I be ? Within two or three hours you will become a real donkey , just like the ones that pull the fruit carts to market . 
My dear boy , answered the Dormouse to cheer him up a bit , why worry now ? What is done cannot be undone , you know . 
Fate has decreed that all lazy boys who come to hate books and schools and teachers and spend all their days with toys and games must sooner or later turn into donkeys . 
But is it really so ? asked the Marionette , sobbing bitterly . 
I am sorry to say it is . 
And tears now are useless . 
You should have thought of all this before . 
But the fault is not mine . 
Believe me , little Dormouse , the fault is all Lamp Wick's . 
And who is this Lamp Wick ? A classmate of mine . 
I wanted to return home . 
I wanted to be obedient . 
There we'll never study again . 
There we can enjoy ourselves and be happy from morn till night . 
And why did you follow the advice of that false friend ? Why ? Because , my dear little Dormouse , I am a heedless Marionette heedless and heartless . 
But when he reached it , remembering his donkey ears , he felt ashamed to show them to the public and turned back . 
He took a large cotton bag from a shelf , put it on his head , and pulled it far down to his very nose . 
Thus adorned , he went out . 
He looked for Lamp Wick everywhere , along the streets , in the squares , inside the theatres , everywhere but he was not to be found . 
He asked everyone whom he met about him , but no one had seen him . 
In desperation , he returned home and knocked at the door . 
Who is it ? asked Lamp Wick from within . 
It is I ! answered the Marionette . 
After a full half hour the door opened . 
Another surprise awaited Pinocchio ! There in the room stood his friend , with a large cotton bag on his head , pulled far down to his very nose . 
Like a mouse in a Parmesan cheese . 
And you , dear Marionette , why are you wearing that cotton bag down to your nose ? The doctor has ordered it because I have bruised my foot . 
Yours , too ? And which ear is it ? Both of them . 
And yours ? Both of them , too . 
I wonder if it could be the same sickness . 
Will you do me a favor , Lamp Wick ? Gladly ! With my whole heart . 
Will you let me see your ears ? Why not ? But before I show you mine , I want to see yours , dear Pinocchio . 
No. You must show yours first . 
No , my dear ! Yours first , then mine . 
Well , then , said the Marionette , let us make a contract . 
Let's hear the contract ! Let us take off our caps together . 
All right ? All right . 
Ready then ! Pinocchio began to count , One ! Two ! Three ! At the word Three ! the two boys pulled off their caps and threw them high in air . 
And then a scene took place which is hard to believe , but it is all too true . 
They laughed and laughed , and laughed again laughed till they ached laughed till they cried . 
But all of a sudden Lamp Wick stopped laughing . 
He tottered and almost fell . 
Pale as a ghost , he turned to Pinocchio and said Help , help , Pinocchio ! What is the matter ? Oh , help me ! I can no longer stand up . 
I can't either , cried Pinocchio and his laughter turned to tears as he stumbled about helplessly . 
They had hardly finished speaking , when both of them fell on all fours and began running and jumping around the room . 
As they ran , their arms turned into legs , their faces lengthened into snouts and their backs became covered with long gray hairs . 
This was humiliation enough , but the most horrible moment was the one in which the two poor creatures felt their tails appear . 
Overcome with shame and grief , they tried to cry and bemoan their fate . 
Open , I say , or beware ! CHAPTER Pinocchio , having become a Donkey , is bought by the owner of a Circus , who wants to teach him to do tricks . 
Outside the room , the Little Man grew more and more impatient , and finally gave the door such a violent kick that it flew open . 
On hearing this , the two Donkeys bowed their heads in shame , dropped their ears , and put their tails between their legs . 
At first , the Little Man petted and caressed them and smoothed down their hairy coats . 
Then he took out a currycomb and worked over them till they shone like glass . 
In fact , he did not have to wait very long for an offer . 
Lamp Wick was bought by a farmer whose donkey had died the day before . 
Pinocchio went to the owner of a circus , who wanted to teach him to do tricks for his audiences . 
And now do you understand what the Little Man's profession was ? This horrid little being , whose face shone with kindness , went about the world looking for boys . 
Lazy boys , boys who hated books , boys who wanted to run away from home , boys who were tired of school all these were his joy and his fortune . 
He took them with him to the Land of Toys and let them enjoy themselves to their heart's content . 
When , after months of all play and no work , they became little donkeys , he sold them on the market place . 
In a few years , he had become a millionaire . 
What happened to Lamp Wick ? My dear children , I do not know . 
Pinocchio , I can tell you , met with great hardships even from the first day . 
After putting him in a stable , his new master filled his manger with straw , but Pinocchio , after tasting a mouthful , spat it out . 
Then the man filled the manger with hay . 
But Pinocchio did not like that any better . 
Ah , you don't like hay either ? he cried angrily . 
Wait , my pretty Donkey , I'll teach you not to be so particular . 
Without more ado , he took a whip and gave the Donkey a hearty blow across the legs . 
At that second beating , Pinocchio became very quiet and said no more . 
After that , the door of the stable was closed and he was left alone . 
It was many hours since he had eaten anything and he started to yawn from hunger . 
As he yawned , he opened a mouth as big as an oven . 
Finally , not finding anything else in the manger , he tasted the hay . 
After tasting it , he chewed it well , closed his eyes , and swallowed it . 
This hay is not bad , he said to himself . 
But how much happier I should be if I had studied ! Just now , instead of hay , I should be eating some good bread and butter . 
Patience ! Next morning , when he awoke , Pinocchio looked in the manger for more hay , but it was all gone . 
He had eaten it all during the night . 
He tried the straw , but , as he chewed away at it , he noticed to his great disappointment that it tasted neither like rice nor like macaroni . 
Patience ! he repeated as he chewed . 
I am going to teach you to jump and bow , to dance a waltz and a polka , and even to stand on your head . 
The day came at last when Pinocchio's master was able to announce an extraordinary performance . 
Not an orchestra chair could be had , not a balcony seat , nor a gallery seat not even for their weight in gold . 
The place swarmed with boys and girls of all ages and sizes , wriggling and dancing about in a fever of impatience to see the famous Donkey dance . 
We thank you for your attention ! This speech was greeted by much laughter and applause . 
And the applause grew to a roar when Pinocchio , the famous Donkey , appeared in the circus ring . 
A great sash of gold and silver was fastened around his waist and his tail was decorated with ribbons of many brilliant colors . 
Observe , I beg of you , the savage look of his eye . 
All the means used by centuries of civilization in subduing wild beasts failed in this case . 
I had finally to resort to the gentle language of the whip in order to bring him to my will . 
With all my kindness , however , I never succeeded in gaining my Donkey's love . 
He is still today as savage as the day I found him . 
He still fears and hates me . 
But I have found in him one great redeeming feature . 
Do you see this little bump on his forehead ? It is this bump which gives him his great talent of dancing and using his feet as nimbly as a human being . 
Admire him , O signori , and enjoy yourselves . 
I let you , now , be the judges of my success as a teacher of animals . 
Before I leave you , I wish to state that there will be another performance tomorrow night . 
If the weather threatens rain , the great spectacle will take place at eleven o'clock in the morning . 
A few minutes passed and again the voice of the Manager called Quickstep ! and Pinocchio obediently changed his step . 
Gallop ! and Pinocchio galloped . 
Full speed ! and Pinocchio ran as fast as he could . 
As he ran the master raised his arm and a pistol shot rang in the air . 
At the shot , the little Donkey fell to the ground as if he were really dead . 
A shower of applause greeted the Donkey as he arose to his feet . 
Cries and shouts and handclappings were heard on all sides . 
At all that noise , Pinocchio lifted his head and raised his eyes . 
There , in front of him , in a box sat a beautiful woman . 
Around her neck she wore a long gold chain , from which hung a large medallion . 
On the medallion was painted the picture of a Marionette . 
That picture is of me ! That beautiful lady is my Fairy ! said Pinocchio to himself , recognizing her . 
Then , in order to teach the Donkey that it was not good manners to bray before the public , the Manager hit him on the nose with the handle of the whip . 
The poor little Donkey stuck out a long tongue and licked his nose for a long time in an effort to take away the pain . 
Pinocchio tried two or three times , but each time he came near the ring , he found it more to his taste to go under it . 
When he got up , he was lame and could hardly limp as far as the stable . 
Pinocchio ! We want Pinocchio ! We want the little Donkey ! cried the boys from the orchestra , saddened by the accident . 
No one saw Pinocchio again that evening . 
The next morning the veterinary that is , the animal doctor declared that he would be lame for the rest of his life . 
What do I want with a lame donkey ? said the Manager to the stableboy . 
Take him to the market and sell him . 
When they reached the square , a buyer was soon found . 
How much do you ask for that little lame Donkey ? he asked . 
I'll give you four cents . 
Don't think I'm buying him for work . 
I want only his skin . 
It looks very tough and I can use it to make myself a drumhead . 
I belong to a musical band in my village and I need a drum . 
And his new master sat on the cliff waiting for him to drown , so as to skin him and make himself a drumhead . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio is thrown into the sea , eaten by fishes , and becomes a Marionette once more . 
Up with him and then I can get to work on my beautiful drum . 
Seeing that wooden Marionette , the poor man thought he was dreaming and sat there with his mouth wide open and his eyes popping out of his head . 
Gathering his wits together , he said And the Donkey I threw into the sea ? I am that Donkey , answered the Marionette laughing . 
You ? I. Ah , you little cheat ! Are you poking fun at me ? Poking fun at you ? Not at all , dear Master . 
The sea is fond of playing these tricks . 
The old fellow , curious to know the true story of the Marionette's life , immediately untied the rope which held his foot . 
I was taken to the fair and sold to a Circus Owner , who tried to make me dance and jump through the rings . 
One night , during a performance , I had a bad fall and became lame . 
Not knowing what to do with a lame donkey , the Circus Owner sent me to the market place and you bought me . 
Indeed I did ! And I paid four cents for you . 
There are so many donkeys in this world . 
Tell me , impudent little rogue , does your story end here ? One more word , answered the Marionette , and I am through . 
After buying me , you brought me here to kill me . 
But feeling sorry for me , you tied a stone to my neck and threw me to the bottom of the sea . 
That was very good and kind of you to want me to suffer as little as possible and I shall remember you always . 
And today this good Fairy of mine , as soon as she saw me in danger of drowning , sent a thousand fishes to the spot where I lay . 
They thought I was really a dead donkey and began to eat me . 
What great bites they took ! One ate my ears , another my nose , a third my neck and my mane . 
From now on , said the man , horrified , I swear I shall never again taste fish . 
How I should enjoy opening a mullet or a whitefish just to find there the tail of a dead donkey ! I think as you do , answered the Marionette , laughing . 
Here , dear Master , you have my story . 
You know now why you found a Marionette and not a dead donkey when you pulled me out of the water . 
I laugh at your story ! cried the man angrily . 
I know that I spent four cents to get you and I want my money back . 
Do you know what I can do I am going to take you to the market once more and sell you as dry firewood . 
Very well , sell me . 
I am satisfied , said Pinocchio . 
But as he spoke , he gave a quick leap and dived into the sea . 
Swimming away as fast as he could , he cried out , laughing Good by , Master . 
If you ever need a skin for your drum , remember me . 
He swam on and on . 
After a while , he turned around again and called louder than before Good by , Master . 
If you ever need a piece of good dry firewood , remember me . 
In a few seconds he had gone so far he could hardly be seen . 
One would have thought that Pinocchio had turned into a porpoise playing in the sun . 
After swimming for a long time , Pinocchio saw a large rock in the middle of the sea , a rock as white as marble . 
High on the rock stood a little Goat bleating and calling and beckoning to the Marionette to come to her . 
There was something very strange about that little Goat . 
Her coat was not white or black or brown as that of any other goat , but azure , a deep brilliant color that reminded one of the hair of the lovely maiden . 
Pinocchio's heart beat fast , and then faster and faster . 
He redoubled his efforts and swam as hard as he could toward the white rock . 
Hasten , Pinocchio , I beg you ! bleated the little Goat on the high rock . 
And Pinocchio swam desperately with his arms , his body , his legs , his feet . 
Quick , Pinocchio , the monster is coming nearer ! Pinocchio swam faster and faster , and harder and harder . 
He came close to the rock . 
The Goat leaned over and gave him one of her hoofs to help him up out of the water . 
Alas ! It was too late . 
The monster overtook him and the Marionette found himself in between the rows of gleaming white teeth . 
Then he swallowed him so fast that Pinocchio , falling down into the body of the fish , lay stunned for a half hour . 
When he recovered his senses the Marionette could not remember where he was . 
Around him all was darkness , a darkness so deep and so black that for a moment he thought he had put his head into an inkwell . 
He listened for a few moments and heard nothing . 
Once in a while a cold wind blew on his face . 
At first he could not understand where that wind was coming from , but after a while he understood that it came from the lungs of the monster . 
I forgot to tell you that the Shark was suffering from asthma , so that whenever he breathed a storm seemed to blow . 
Pinocchio at first tried to be brave , but as soon as he became convinced that he was really and truly in the Shark's stomach , he burst into sobs and tears . 
Help ! Help ! he cried . 
Oh , poor me ! Won't someone come to save me ? Who is there to help you , unhappy boy ? said a rough voice , like a guitar out of tune . 
Who is talking ? asked Pinocchio , frozen with terror . 
It is I , a poor Tunny swallowed by the Shark at the same time as you . 
And what kind of a fish are you ? I have nothing to do with fishes . 
If you are not a fish , why did you let this monster swallow you ? I didn't let him . 
But I don't want to be digested , shouted Pinocchio , starting to sob . 
What nonsense ! cried Pinocchio . 
Mine is an opinion , replied the Tunny , and opinions should be respected . 
But I want to get out of this place . 
Go , if you can ! Is this Shark that has swallowed us very long ? asked the Marionette . 
His body , not counting the tail , is almost a mile long . 
While talking in the darkness , Pinocchio thought he saw a faint light in the distance . 
What can that be ? he said to the Tunny . 
Some other poor fish , waiting as patiently as we to be digested by the Shark . 
I want to see him . 
He may be an old fish and may know some way of escape . 
I wish you all good luck , dear Marionette . 
Good by , Marionette , and good luck . 
When shall I see you again ? Who knows ? It is better not to think about it . 
As he walked his feet splashed in a pool of greasy and slippery water , which had such a heavy smell of fish fried in oil that Pinocchio thought it was Lent . 
The farther on he went , the brighter and clearer grew the tiny light . 
They wriggled so that , now and again , one of them slipped out of the old man's mouth and escaped into the darkness under the table . 
At this sight , the poor Marionette was filled with such great and sudden happiness that he almost dropped in a faint . 
At last , with a great effort , he was able to let out a scream of joy and , opening wide his arms he threw them around the old man's neck . 
There they ate like wolves and I left the Inn alone and I met the Assassins in the wood . 
I ran and they ran after me , always after me , till they hanged me to the branch of a giant oak tree . 
It grew and it grew , till I couldn't get it through the door of the room . 
And then I went with the Fox and the Cat to the Field of Wonders to bury the gold pieces . 
The Parrot laughed at me and , instead of two thousand gold pieces , I found none . 
The trap caught me and the Farmer put a collar on me and made me a watchdog . 
He found out I was innocent when I caught the Weasels and he let me go . 
The Serpent with the tail that smoked started to laugh and a vein in his chest broke and so I went back to the Fairy's house . 
And how long have you been shut away in here ? From that day to this , two long weary years two years , my Pinocchio , which have been like two centuries . 
The sailors were all saved , but the ship went right to the bottom of the sea , and the same Terrible Shark that swallowed me , swallowed most of it . 
What ! Swallowed a ship ? asked Pinocchio in astonishment . 
The only thing he spat out was the main mast , for it stuck in his teeth . 
With all these blessings , I have been able to live happily on for two whole years , but now I am at the very last crumbs . 
Today there is nothing left in the cupboard , and this candle you see here is the last one I have . 
And then ? And then , my dear , we'll find ourselves in darkness . 
Then , my dear Father , said Pinocchio , there is no time to lose . 
We must try to escape . 
Escape ! How ? We can run out of the Shark's mouth and dive into the sea . 
You speak well , but I cannot swim , my dear Pinocchio . 
Why should that matter ? You can climb on my shoulders and I , who am a fine swimmer , will carry you safely to the shore . 
Dreams , my boy ! answered Geppetto , shaking his head and smiling sadly . 
Not adding another word , Pinocchio took the candle in his hand and going ahead to light the way , he said to his father Follow me and have no fear . 
They walked a long distance through the stomach and the whole body of the Shark . 
When they reached the throat of the monster , they stopped for a while to wait for the right moment in which to make their escape . 
I want you to know that the Shark , being very old and suffering from asthma and heart trouble , was obliged to sleep with his mouth open . 
Because of this , Pinocchio was able to catch a glimpse of the sky filled with stars , as he looked up through the open jaws of his new home . 
The time has come for us to escape , he whispered , turning to his father . 
The Shark is fast asleep . 
The sea is calm and the night is as bright as day . 
Follow me closely , dear Father , and we shall soon be saved . 
No sooner said than done . 
They climbed up the throat of the monster till they came to that immense open mouth . 
To make matters worse , the candle went out and father and son were left in the dark . 
And now ? asked Pinocchio with a serious face . 
Why lost ? Give me your hand , dear Father , and be careful not to slip ! Where will you take me ? We must try again . 
Come with me and don't be afraid . 
With these words Pinocchio took his father by the hand and , always walking on tiptoes , they climbed up the monster's throat for a second time . 
They then crossed the whole tongue and jumped over three rows of teeth . 
But before they took the last great leap , the Marionette said to his father Climb on my back and hold on tightly to my neck . 
I'll take care of everything else . 
As soon as Geppetto was comfortably seated on his shoulders , Pinocchio , very sure of what he was doing , dived into the water and started to swim . 
The sea was like oil , the moon shone in all splendor , and the Shark continued to sleep so soundly that not even a cannon shot would have awakened him . 
CHAPTER Pinocchio finally ceases to be a Marionette and becomes a boy My dear Father , we are saved ! cried the Marionette . 
All we have to do now is to get to the shore , and that is easy . 
Without another word , he swam swiftly away in an effort to reach land as soon as possible . 
All at once he noticed that Geppetto was shivering and shaking as if with a high fever . 
Was he shivering from fear or from cold ? Who knows ? Perhaps a little of both . 
But Pinocchio , thinking his father was frightened , tried to comfort him by saying Courage , Father ! In a few moments we shall be safe on land . 
But where is that blessed shore ? asked the little old man , more and more worried as he tried to pierce the faraway shadows . 
Here I am searching on all sides and I see nothing but sea and sky . 
I see the shore , said the Marionette . 
Remember , Father , that I am like a cat . 
I see better at night than by day . 
Poor Pinocchio pretended to be peaceful and contented , but he was far from that . 
He was beginning to feel discouraged , his strength was leaving him , and his breathing was becoming more and more labored . 
He felt he could not go on much longer , and the shore was still far away . 
He swam a few more strokes . 
And you ? I am the Tunny , your companion in the Shark's stomach . 
And how did you escape ? I imitated your example . 
You are the one who showed me the way and after you went , I followed . 
Hang onto my tail , both of you , and let me lead you . 
In a twinkling you will be safe on land . 
Are we too heavy ? asked Pinocchio . 
Heavy ? Not in the least . 
You are as light as sea shells , answered the Tunny , who was as large as a two year old horse . 
As soon as they reached the shore , Pinocchio was the first to jump to the ground to help his old father . 
The Tunny stuck his nose out of the water and Pinocchio knelt on the sand and kissed him most affectionately on his cheek . 
At this warm greeting , the poor Tunny , who was not used to such tenderness , wept like a child . 
He felt so embarrassed and ashamed that he turned quickly , plunged into the sea , and disappeared . 
In the meantime day had dawned . 
Pinocchio offered his arm to Geppetto , who was so weak he could hardly stand , and said to him Lean on my arm , dear Father , and let us go . 
We will walk very , very slowly , and if we feel tired we can rest by the wayside . 
And where are we going ? asked Geppetto . 
To look for a house or a hut , where they will be kind enough to give us a bite of bread and a bit of straw to sleep on . 
They had not taken a hundred steps when they saw two rough looking individuals sitting on a stone begging for alms . 
It was the Fox and the Cat , but one could hardly recognize them , they looked so miserable . 
The Cat , after pretending to be blind for so many years had really lost the sight of both eyes . 
And the Fox , old , thin , and almost hairless , had even lost his tail . 
That sly thief had fallen into deepest poverty , and one day he had been forced to sell his beautiful tail for a bite to eat . 
Oh , Pinocchio , he cried in a tearful voice . 
Give us some alms , we beg of you ! We are old , tired , and sick . 
Sick ! repeated the Cat . 
Addio , false friends ! answered the Marionette . 
You cheated me once , but you will never catch me again . 
Believe us ! Today we are truly poor and starving . 
Starving ! repeated the Cat . 
If you are poor you deserve it ! Remember the old proverb which says Stolen money never bears fruit . 
Have mercy on us ! On us . 
Remember the old proverb which says Bad wheat always makes poor bread ! Do not abandon us . 
Abandon us , repeated the Cat . 
Remember the old proverb Whoever steals his neighbor's shirt , usually dies without his own . 
Waving good by to them , Pinocchio and Geppetto calmly went on their way . 
After a few more steps , they saw , at the end of a long road near a clump of trees , a tiny cottage built of straw . 
Someone must live in that little hut , said Pinocchio . 
Let us see for ourselves . 
They went and knocked at the door . 
Who is it ? said a little voice from within . 
A poor father and a poorer son , without food and with no roof to cover them , answered the Marionette . 
Turn the key and the door will open , said the same little voice . 
Pinocchio turned the key and the door opened . 
As soon as they went in , they looked here and there and everywhere but saw no one . 
Oh ho , where is the owner of the hut ? cried Pinocchio , very much surprised . 
Here I am , up here ! Father and son looked up to the ceiling , and there on a beam sat the Talking Cricket . 
Oh , my dear Cricket , said Pinocchio , bowing politely . 
Oh , now you call me your dear Cricket , but do you remember when you threw your hammer at me to kill me ? You are right , dear Cricket . 
Throw a hammer at me now . 
I deserve it ! But spare my poor old father . 
I am going to spare both the father and the son . 
You are right , little Cricket , you are more than right , and I shall remember the lesson you have taught me . 
But will you tell how you succeeded in buying this pretty little cottage ? This cottage was given to me yesterday by a little Goat with blue hair . 
And where did the Goat go ? asked Pinocchio . 
And when will she come back ? She will never come back . 
Yesterday she went away bleating sadly , and it seemed to me she said Poor Pinocchio , I shall never see him again . 
the Shark must have eaten him by this time . 
Were those her real words ? Then it was she it was my dear little Fairy , cried out Pinocchio , sobbing bitterly . 
After he had cried a long time , he wiped his eyes and then he made a bed of straw for old Geppetto . 
Go there and he will give you what you want . 
Pinocchio ran all the way to Farmer John's house . 
The Farmer said to him How much milk do you want ? I want a full glass . 
A full glass costs a penny . 
First give me the penny . 
I have no penny , answered Pinocchio , sad and ashamed . 
Very bad , my Marionette , answered the Farmer , very bad . 
If you have no penny , I have no milk . 
Too bad , said Pinocchio and started to go . 
Wait a moment , said Farmer John . 
Perhaps we can come to terms . 
Do you know how to draw water from a well ? I can try . 
Then go to that well you see yonder and draw one hundred bucketfuls of water . 
After you have finished , I shall give you a glass of warm sweet milk . 
Farmer John took the Marionette to the well and showed him how to draw the water . 
Pinocchio set to work as well as he knew how , but long before he had pulled up the one hundred buckets , he was tired out and dripping with perspiration . 
He had never worked so hard in his life . 
Until today , said the Farmer , my donkey has drawn the water for me , but now that poor animal is dying . 
Will you take me to see him ? said Pinocchio . 
As soon as Pinocchio went into the stable , he spied a little Donkey lying on a bed of straw in the corner of the stable . 
He was worn out from hunger and too much work . 
After looking at him a long time , he said to himself I know that Donkey ! I have seen him before . 
And bending low over him , he asked Who are you ? At this question , the Donkey opened weary , dying eyes and answered in the same tongue I am Lamp Wick . 
Then he closed his eyes and died . 
Oh , my poor Lamp Wick , said Pinocchio in a faint voice , as he wiped his eyes with some straw he had picked up from the ground . 
Do you feel so sorry for a little donkey that has cost you nothing ? said the Farmer . 
What should I do I , who have paid my good money for him ? But , you see , he was my friend . 
Your friend ? A classmate of mine . 
What , shouted Farmer John , bursting out laughing . 
From that day on , for more than five months , Pinocchio got up every morning just as dawn was breaking and went to the farm to draw water . 
And every day he was given a glass of warm milk for his poor old father , who grew stronger and better day by day . 
But he was not satisfied with this . 
He learned to make baskets of reeds and sold them . 
With the money he received , he and his father were able to keep from starving . 
Among other things , he built a rolling chair , strong and comfortable , to take his old father out for an airing on bright , sunny days . 
In the evening the Marionette studied by lamplight . 
As far as writing was concerned , he used a long stick at one end of which he had whittled a long , fine point . 
Ink he had none , so he used the juice of blackberries or cherries . 
Little by little his diligence was rewarded . 
He succeeded , not only in his studies , but also in his work , and a day came when he put enough money together to keep his old father comfortable and happy . 
Besides this , he was able to save the great amount of fifty pennies . 
With it he wanted to buy himself a new suit . 
One day he said to his father I am going to the market place to buy myself a coat , a cap , and a pair of shoes . 
When I come back I'll be so dressed up , you will think I am a rich man . 
He ran out of the house and up the road to the village , laughing and singing . 
Suddenly he heard his name called , and looking around to see whence the voice came , he noticed a large snail crawling out of some bushes . 
Don't you recognize me ? said the Snail . 
In a hospital ? Yes , indeed . 
She has been stricken with trouble and illness , and she hasn't a penny left with which to buy a bite of bread . 
I was just going to buy some clothes . 
Here , take them , little Snail , and give them to my good Fairy . 
What about the new clothes ? What does that matter ? I should like to sell these rags I have on to help her more . 
Come back here within a couple of days and I hope to have more money for you ! Until today I have worked for my father . 
Now I shall have to work for my mother also . 
Good by , and I hope to see you soon . 
The Snail , much against her usual habit , began to run like a lizard under a summer sun . 
When Pinocchio returned home , his father asked him And where is the new suit ? I couldn't find one to fit me . 
I shall have to look again some other day . 
That night , Pinocchio , instead of going to bed at ten o'clock waited until midnight , and instead of making eight baskets , he made sixteen . 
After that he went to bed and fell asleep . 
Keep on doing so well , and you will be happy . 
At that very moment , Pinocchio awoke and opened wide his eyes . 
In a twinkling , he jumped down from his bed to look on the chair standing near . 
There , he found a new suit , a new hat , and a pair of shoes . 
The Marionette opened the purse to find the money , and behold there were fifty gold coins ! Pinocchio ran to the mirror . 
The bright face of a tall boy looked at him with wide awake blue eyes , dark brown hair and happy , smiling lips . 
Surrounded by so much splendor , the Marionette hardly knew what he was doing . 
He rubbed his eyes two or three times , wondering if he were still asleep or awake and decided he must be awake . 
And where is Father ? he cried suddenly . 
He ran into the next room , and there stood Geppetto , grown years younger overnight , spick and span in his new clothes and gay as a lark in the morning . 
He was once more Mastro Geppetto , the wood carver , hard at work on a lovely picture frame , decorating it with flowers and leaves , and heads of animals . 
Father , Father , what has happened ? Tell me if you can , cried Pinocchio , as he ran and jumped on his Father's neck . 
This sudden change in our house is all your doing , my dear Pinocchio , answered Geppetto . 
What have I to do with it ? Just this . 
When bad boys become good and kind , they have the power of making their homes gay and new with happiness . 
I wonder where the old Pinocchio of wood has hidden himself ? There he is , answered Geppetto . 
And he pointed to a large Marionette leaning against a chair , head turned to one side , arms hanging limp , and legs twisted under him . 
