I have a well developed sense of humor when the joke is not on me . 
, was expected almost hourly . 
The last steamer in from Honolulu had brought information of the date of the expected sailing of his yacht Toreador , which was now twenty four hours overdue . 
I was also aware of the fact that the sending apparatus of the Toreador's wireless equipment was sealed , and that it would only be used in event of dire necessity . 
There was , therefore , nothing to do but wait , and we waited . 
We discussed the manuscript and hazarded guesses concerning it and the strange events it narrated . 
The torpedoing of the liner upon which Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
Further , neither she nor Bowen had been mentioned among the list of survivors nor had the body of either of them been recovered . 
Yes , the narrative had us guessing . 
We were agreed that it was most improbable but neither of us could say that anything which it contained was beyond the range of possibility . 
The assistant secretary had heard of Caproni and his discoveries , but admitted that he never had taken much stock in the one nor the other . 
We were agreed that the one statement most difficult of explanation was that which reported the entire absence of human young among the various tribes which Tyler had had intercourse . 
This was the one irreconcilable statement of the manuscript . 
A world of adults ! It was impossible . 
We speculated upon the probable fate of Bradley and his party of English sailors . 
It is stupendous if true , I replied . 
There might be some hope for them if they could join forces but separated , I'm afraid they couldn't last long . 
If only they hadn't let the German prisoners capture the U ! Bowen should have had better judgment than to have trusted them at all . 
The chances are von Schoenvorts succeeded in getting safely back to Kiel and is strutting around with an Iron Cross this very minute . 
I don't like 'em , said the assistant secretary but sometimes you got to hand it to 'em . 
Yes , I growled , and there's nothing I'd enjoy more than handing it to them ! And then the telephone bell rang . 
The assistant secretary answered , and as I watched him , I saw his jaw drop and his face go white . 
My God ! he exclaimed as he hung up the receiver as one in a trance . 
It can't be ! What ? I asked . 
Mr. Tyler is dead , he answered in a dull voice . 
He died at sea , suddenly , yesterday . 
The next ten days were occupied in burying Mr. Bowen J. Tyler , Sr . 
, and arranging plans for the succor of his son . 
Mr. Tom Billings , the late Mr. Tyler's secretary , did it all . 
He is force , energy , initiative and good judgment combined and personified . 
I never have beheld a more dynamic young man . 
He handled lawyers , courts and executors as a sculptor handles his modeling clay . 
He formed , fashioned and forced them to his will . 
, had picked him out of thousands of employees and made him or rather Tyler had given him the opportunity , and then Billings had made himself . 
Ten days after they brought Mr. Tyler's body off the Toreador , we steamed out into the Pacific in search of Caprona . 
There were forty in the party , including the master and crew of the Toreador and Billings the indomitable was in command . 
We had a long and uninteresting search for Caprona , for the old map upon which the assistant secretary had finally located it was most inaccurate . 
Bergs were numerous , and it was very cold . 
All during the trip Billings had steadfastly evaded questions as to how we were to enter Caspak after we had found Caprona . 
Tyler's party had been able to navigate this channel because their craft had been a submarine but the Toreador could as easily have flown over the cliffs as sailed under them . 
There was no use in talking about these things , he said , until we found the island . 
At best it can be but conjecture on our part until we have been able to scrutinize the coast closely . 
I have in view three plans for scaling the cliffs , and the means for carrying out each is in the hold . 
It would be a long , arduous and dangerous work to bore the holes and insert the rungs of the ladder from the bottom upward yet it can be done . 
My third plan seems to me the most feasible . 
You all saw a number of large , heavy boxes lowered into the hold before we sailed . 
I know you did , because you asked me what they contained and commented upon the large letter 'H' which was painted upon each box . 
These boxes contain the various parts of a hydro aeroplane . 
After it is assembled , I shall carry tackle and ropes to the cliff top , and then it will be comparatively simple to hoist the search party and its supplies in safety . 
Or I can make a sufficient number of trips to land the entire party in the valley beyond the barrier all will depend , of course , upon what my first reconnaissance reveals . 
That afternoon we steamed slowly along the face of Caprona's towering barrier . 
And he jerked his thumb toward the cliffs . 
It would take weeks , possibly months , to construct a ladder to the top . 
I had no conception of their formidable height . 
Our mortar would not carry a line halfway to the crest of the lowest point . 
There is no use discussing any plan other than the hydro aeroplane . 
We'll find the beach and get busy . 
Two days later the plane was assembled and tuned . 
We loaded tackles and ropes , water , food and ammunition in it , and then we each implored Billings to let us be the one to accompany him . 
But he would take no one . 
That was Billings if there was any especially difficult or dangerous work to be done , that one man could do , Billings always did it himself . 
If he needed assistance , he never called for volunteers just selected the man or men he considered best qualified for the duty . 
We rolled the plane down to the water's edge , and Billings mounted the pilot's seat . 
There was a moment's delay as he assured himself that he had everything necessary . 
Jimmy Hollis went over his armament and ammunition to see that nothing had been omitted . 
Besides pistol and rifle , there was the machine gun mounted in front of him on the plane , and ammunition for all three . 
Bowen's account of the terrors of Caspak had impressed us all with the necessity for proper means of defense . 
At last all was ready . 
The motor was started , and we pushed the plane out into the surf . 
A moment later , and she was skimming seaward . 
Gently she rose from the surface of the water , executed a wide spiral as she mounted rapidly , circled once far above us and then disappeared over the crest of the cliffs . 
We all stood silent and expectant , our eyes glued upon the towering summit above us . 
Hollis , who was now in command , consulted his wrist watch at frequent intervals . 
Gad , exclaimed Short , we ought to be hearing from him pretty soon ! Hollis laughed nervously . 
He's been gone only ten minutes , he announced . 
Seems like an hour , snapped Short . 
We don't know what's happening . 
Why didn't he let one of us go with him ? Yes , it was the machine gun . 
We would hear it distinctly for at least a minute . 
That was two weeks ago . 
We have had no sign nor signal from Tom Billings since . 
Chapter I'll never forget my first impressions of Caspak as I circled in , high over the surrounding cliffs . 
From the plane I looked down through a mist upon the blurred landscape beneath me . 
I was flying pretty low by this time , not only looking for landing places but watching the myriad life beneath me . 
I was too far up to recognize individuals , but the general impression was of a vast army of amphibious monsters . 
The land was almost equally alive with crawling , leaping , running , flying things . 
It was one of the latter which nearly did for me while my attention was fixed upon the weird scene below . 
It must have been fully eighty feet long from the end of its long , hideous beak to the tip of its thick , short tail , with an equal spread of wings . 
It was coming straight for me and hissing frightfully I could hear it above the whir of the propeller . 
Something man's natural love of battle and the chase , I presume impelled me to pursue it , and so I too circled and dived . 
The moment I came down into the warm atmosphere of Caspak , the creature came for me again , rising above me so that it might swoop down upon me . 
Nothing could better have suited my armament , since my machine gun was pointed upward at an angle of about degrees and could not be either depressed or elevated by the pilot . 
The battle must have lasted a minute or more before the thing suddenly turned completely over in the air and fell to the ground . 
Bowen and I roomed together at college , and I learned a lot from him outside my regular course . 
He was a pretty good scholar despite his love of fun , and his particular hobby was paleontology . 
I knew that the thing that had attacked me was some sort of pterodactyl which should have been extinct millions of years ago . 
It was all that I needed to realize that Bowen had exaggerated nothing in his manuscript . 
Having disposed of my first foe , I set myself once more to search for a landing place near to the base of the cliffs beyond which my party awaited me . 
As I flew north , the temptation to explore overcame me . 
The further shore of the sea revealed a much narrower strip of land between the cliffs and the water than upon the western side but it was a hillier and more open country . 
There were splendid landing places , and in the distance , toward the north , I thought I descried a village but of that I was not positive . 
However , as I approached the land , I saw a number of human figures apparently pursuing one who fled across a broad expanse of meadow . 
As I dropped lower to have a better look at these people , they caught the whirring of my propellers and looked aloft . 
They paused an instant pursuers and pursued and then they broke and raced for the shelter of the nearest wood . 
Almost instantaneously a huge bulk swooped down upon me , and as I looked up , I realized that there were flying reptiles even in this part of Caspak . 
The creature dived for my right wing so quickly that nothing but a sheer drop could have saved me . 
My effort to dodge the tree and the pterodactyl at the same time resulted disastrously . 
Hissing loudly , the huge reptile swept close above the tree in which my plane had lodged , circled twice over me and then flapped away toward the south . 
For a minute or so I clung there to my battered flyer , now useless beyond redemption , my brain numbed by the frightful catastrophe that had befallen me . 
And what effect it might have upon the future of the balance of the rescuing expedition I could not even guess . 
Their lives , too , might be sacrificed to my suicidal foolishness . 
That I was doomed seemed inevitable but I can honestly say that the fate of my friends concerned me more greatly than did my own . 
Beyond the barrier cliffs my party was even now nervously awaiting my return . 
Home ! I set my jaws and tried to forget the word , for I knew that I should never again see home . 
And what of Bowen and his girl ? I had doomed them too . 
They would never even know that an attempt had been made to rescue them . 
I was badly shaken up and bruised , but considered myself mighty lucky to escape with my life . 
The plane hung at a precarious angle , so that it was with difficulty and considerable danger that I climbed from it into the tree and then to the ground . 
I had seen quite enough of Caspak this day to assure me that Bowen had in no way exaggerated its perils . 
As a matter of fact , I am inclined to believe that he had become so accustomed to them before he started upon his manuscript that he rather slighted them . 
My greatest danger lay in the hideous reptilia whose low nervous organizations permitted their carnivorous instincts to function for several minutes after they had ceased to live . 
But to these things I gave less thought than to the sudden frustration of all our plans . 
With the bitterest of thoughts I condemned myself for the foolish weakness that had permitted me to be drawn from the main object of my flight into premature and useless exploration . 
Yet I could not give up hope entirely . 
My duty lay clear before me I must follow it while life remained to me , and so I set forth toward the north . 
All about me , in every direction , was life . 
I am neither nervous nor highstrung but the burden of responsibility upon me weighed heavily , so that I was more cautious than is my wont . 
I turned often to right and left and rear lest I be surprised , and I carried my rifle at the ready in my hand . 
Before it finally broke into plain view , I became aware that it was not alone , for a few yards in its rear a second thing thrashed through the leafy jungle . 
Evidently I was to be attacked in force by a pair of hunting beasts or men . 
On it came , grim and terrible , its baleful eyes glaring above its distended jaws , its lips curled in a frightful snarl which exposed a whole mouthful of formidable teeth . 
But at the same instant , as though sensing my intention , the great creature lifted its head and leaped forward in full charge . 
Down it went for the second time and then up and at me . 
I put a third bullet into the beast at three paces , and then I thought that I was done for but it rolled over and stopped at my feet , stone dead . 
About her waist was a loose leather belt , to the center of which was attached the scabbard belonging to her knife . 
There was a single armlet between her right shoulder and elbow , and a series of them covered her left forearm from elbow to wrist . 
These , I learned later , answered the purpose of a shield against knife attack when the left arm is raised in guard across the breast or face . 
Her masses of heavy hair were held in place by a broad metal band which bore a large triangular ornament directly in the center of her forehead . 
From the left shoulder depended a leopard's tail , while her feet were shod with sturdy little sandals . 
The knife was her only weapon . 
Her figure beggars description , and equally so , her face . 
No , even the dirt couldn't hide that fact she was beautiful beyond compare . 
As we stood looking at each other , a slow smile came to her face , parting her symmetrical lips and disclosing a row of strong white teeth . 
Galu ? she asked with rising inflection . 
And remembering that I read in Bowen's manuscript that Galu seemed to indicate a higher type of man , I answered by pointing to myself and repeating the word . 
Then she started off on a regular catechism , if I could judge by her inflection , for I certainly understood no word of what she said . 
All the time the girl kept glancing toward the forest , and at last she touched my arm and pointed in that direction . 
They were not pretty to look upon with their close set eyes , flat noses , long upper lips and protruding yellow fangs . 
Alus ! said the girl . 
Kazor ! cried the girl , and at the same moment the Alus came jabbering toward us . 
They made strange growling , barking noises , as with much baring of fangs they advanced upon us . 
He dropped like a stone , and the others turned and fled . 
Once again the girl smiled her slow smile and stepping closer , caressed the barrel of my automatic . 
She said something to me in her low , liquid tones but I could not understand her , and then she pointed toward the north and started away . 
We walked along , the girl talking a great deal and seeming mystified that I could not understand her . 
Her silvery laugh rang merrily when I in turn essayed to speak to her , as though my language was the quaintest thing she ever had heard . 
She meant that I was no Galu , as I claimed , but an Alu , or speechless one . 
Yet every time she said this she laughed again , and so infectious were her tones that I could only join her . 
She , who is a Galu , can understand one of the Bo lu and make herself understood to him , or to a hatchet man , a spear man or an archer . 
I never have been what one might call a ladies' man , though I like their company immensely , and during my college days and since have made various friends among the sex . 
Yet in the company of this half naked little savage I found a new pleasure that was entirely distinct from any that I ever had experienced . 
When she touched me , I thrilled as I had never before thrilled in contact with another woman . 
The sun was low in the heavens when we came upon a little river which emptied into a large bay at the foot of low cliffs . 
Our journey so far had been beset with constant danger , as is every journey in this frightful land . 
I have not bored you with a recital of the wearying successions of attacks by the multitude of creatures which were constantly crossing our path or deliberately stalking us . 
We were always upon the alert for here , to paraphrase , eternal vigilance is indeed the price of life . 
I knew the words for sea and river and cliff , for sky and sun and cloud . 
The girl ran her fingers into that mass of hair and looked puzzled . 
I repeated the action a dozen times . 
Tom , she said finally in that clear , sweet , liquid voice . 
Well , we knew each other's names now , and that was some satisfaction . 
I rather liked hers Ajor ! And she seemed to like mine , for she repeated it . 
We came to the cliffs beside the little river where it empties into the bay with the great inland sea beyond . 
The cliffs were weather worn and rotted , and in one place a deep hollow ran back beneath the overhanging stone for several feet , suggesting shelter for the night . 
As soon as she grasped my meaning , she assented with the Caspakian equivalent of an affirmative nod , and then touching my rifle , motioned me to follow her to the river . 
It was done so naturally , so simply and so quickly that it left me gasping like a fish out of water . 
Turning , she flashed a smile at me and then dived into the river , and there she bathed while I stood guard over her . 
For five or ten minutes she splashed about , and when she emerged her glistening skin was smooth and white and beautiful . 
Without means of drying herself , she simply ignored what to me would have seemed a necessity , and in a moment was arrayed in her simple though effective costume . 
With my hunting knife I removed a hind quarter , and then we returned to camp . 
I shall never forget the expression upon Ajor's face as she saw me strike a match and light the kindling beneath our camp fire . 
It was such an expression as might transform a mortal face with awe as its owner beheld the mysterious workings of divinity . 
It was evident that Ajor was quite unfamiliar with modern methods of fire making . 
She had thought my rifle and pistol wonderful but these tiny slivers of wood which from a magic rub brought flame to the camp hearth were indeed miracles to her . 
As the meat roasted above the fire , Ajor and I tried once again to talk but though copiously filled with incentive , gestures and sounds , the conversation did not flourish notably . 
And then Ajor took up in earnest the task of teaching me her language . 
She commenced , as I later learned , with the simplest form of speech known to Caspak or for that matter to the world that employed by the Bo lu . 
She was a regular little animated question mark . 
She bubbled over with interrogations which were never to be satisfied unless I learned to speak her tongue . 
Her eyes sparkled with excitement her hand flew in expressive gestures her little tongue raced with time yet all to no avail . 
She was trying to teach me some verbs by going through the actions herself as she repeated the proper word . 
It was the fierce and snarling countenance of a gigantic bear . 
I had depended most , however , upon our fire , feeling that none of the dangerous nocturnal beasts of prey would venture close to the flames . 
Ajor whipped out her futile little knife and pointed to my rifle . 
At the same time she spoke in a quite level voice entirely devoid of nervousness or any evidence of fear or panic . 
For some time the creature stood there watching the entrance to our frail sanctuary while I racked my brains in futile endeavor to plan some method of defense or escape . 
It stood thus a moment , and then the head was withdrawn . 
Very gently the paw toyed with the great rock that partly closed the entrance , pushed and pulled upon it and then very deliberately drew it outward and to one side . 
Again came the head , and this time much farther into the cavern but still the great shoulders would not pass through the opening . 
Ajor moved closer to me until her shoulder touched my side , and I thought I felt a slight tremor run through her body , but otherwise she gave no indication of fear . 
Involuntarily I threw my left arm about her and drew her to me for an instant . 
My only hope was to get as many shots into the creature as I could before it was upon me . 
Already it had torn away a second rock and was in the very act of forcing its huge bulk through the opening it had now made . 
The bullet could not fail to hit its mark ! I held my breath lest I swerve the muzzle a hair by my breathing . 
And then , as the bear surged forward toward me , the hammer fell futilely , upon an imperfect cartridge . 
For an instant I couldn't understand what had happened to cause this sudden retreat when his prey was practically within his clutches . 
The idea that the harmless clicking of the hammer had frightened him was too ridiculous to entertain . 
The bear had been attacked in the rear by some other mighty beast , and the two were now locked in a titanic struggle for supremacy . 
Chapter When I awoke , it was daylight , and I found Ajor squatting before a fine bed of coals roasting a large piece of antelope meat . 
She looked up and smiled at me , showing those perfect teeth , and dimpling with evident happiness the most adorable picture that I had ever seen . 
I recall that it was then I first regretted that she was only a little untutored savage and so far beneath me in the scale of evolution . 
They immediately devour the entire carcass , after which they lie up and sleep for a few hours . 
Fortunately their numbers are comparatively few otherwise there would be no other life within Caspak . 
How the human and semihuman races have managed to survive during all the countless ages that these conditions must have existed here is quite beyond me . 
After breakfast Ajor and I set out once more upon our northward journey . 
We had gone but a little distance when we were attacked by a number of apelike creatures armed with clubs . 
They seemed a little higher in the scale than the Alus . 
Ajor told me they were Bo lu , or clubmen . 
These people were less hairy and more man like nor did they appear so anxious to destroy us . 
Rather they were curious , and followed us for some distance examining us most closely . 
We needed meat , for it was near one o'clock and I was getting hungry so I drew my pistol and with a single shot dropped the creature in its tracks . 
The effect upon the Bo lu was electrical . 
Immediately they abandoned all thoughts of war , and turning , scampered for the forest which fringed our path . 
That night we spent beside a little stream in the Sto lu country . 
Nothing could reach us without swimming and wading through the stream , and I felt quite secure from attack . 
Our quarters were rather cramped . 
During the three days which followed , our progress was exasperatingly slow . 
I doubt if we made ten miles in the entire three days . 
The country was hideously savage , so that we were forced to spend hours at a time in hiding from one or another of the great beasts which menaced us continually . 
There were fewer reptiles but the quantity of carnivora seemed to have increased , and the reptiles that we did see were perfectly gigantic . 
I shall never forget one enormous specimen which we came upon browsing upon water reeds at the edge of the great sea . 
Its head was ridiculously small its body was unarmored , but its great bulk gave it a most formidable appearance . 
The little head was raised high upon the long neck as the animal stupidly looked here and there in search of the author of the disturbance . 
At last its eyes discovered tiny little Ajor , and then she hurled the stick at the diminutive head . 
With a cry that sounded not unlike the bleat of a sheep , the colossal creature shuffled into the water and was soon submerged . 
I have seen several since my first encounter , and in each case the creature took to the sea for concealment as soon as it was disturbed . 
It is a stupid , simple , gentle beast one of the few within Caspak which such a description might even remotely fit . 
For three nights we slept in trees , finding no caves or other places of concealment . 
At the close of the third day Ajor and I were able to converse with considerable fluency , and it was a great relief to both of us , especially to Ajor . 
Artless though many of her questions were , they evidenced a keen intellect and a shrewdness which seemed far beyond her years of her experience . 
Altogether I was finding my little savage a mighty interesting and companionable person , and I often thanked the kind fate that directed the crossing of our paths . 
Ajor tried to explain the matter to me , though it was apparent that she could not conceive how so natural a condition should demand explanation . 
And the child shuddered as she voiced the word . 
It was all very mysterious and unfathomable , but I got the idea that the Wieroo were creatures of imagination the demons or gods of her race , omniscient and omnipresent . 
This led me to assume that the Galus had a religious sense , and further questioning brought out the fact that such was the case . 
Ajor spoke in tones of reverence of Luata , the god of heat and life . 
The word is derived from two others Lua , meaning sun , and ata , meaning variously eggs , life , young , and reproduction . 
She told me that they worshiped Luata in several forms , as fire , the sun , eggs and other material objects which suggested heat and reproduction . 
Always the short side of the triangle was uppermost . 
We were now in the country of the Band lu , the spearmen of Caspak . 
Bowen had remarked in his narrative that these people were analogous to the so called Cro Magnon race of the Upper Paleolithic , and I was therefore very anxious to see them . 
We were both very tired , and the sight of these caverns , several of which could be easily barricaded , decided us to halt until the following morning . 
It took but a few minutes' exploration to discover one particular cavern high up the face of the cliff which seemed ideal for our purpose . 
I lighted a faggot and looked about but as far as I could see , the chamber ran back into the cliff . 
Laying aside my rifle , pistol and heavy ammunition belt , I left Ajor in the cave while I went down to gather firewood . 
We already had meat and fruits which we had gathered just before reaching the cliffs , and my canteen was filled with fresh water . 
Therefore , all we required was fuel , and as I always saved Ajor's strength when I could , I would not permit her to accompany me . 
The poor girl was very tired but she would have gone with me until she dropped , I know , so loyal was she . 
As it was , we traveled together like two boys , with huge respect for each other but no softer sentiment . 
There was little timber close to the base of the cliffs , and so I was forced to enter the wood some two hundred yards distant . 
As I searched around in the brush for likely pieces of firewood , my head bowed and my eyes upon the ground , I suddenly felt a great weight hurl itself upon me . 
I struggled to my knees and seized my assailant , a huge , naked man naked except for a breechcloth of snakeskin , the head hanging down to the knees . 
The fellow was armed with a stone shod spear , a stone knife and a hatchet . 
In his black hair were several gay colored feathers . 
As we struggled to and fro , I was slowly gaining advantage of him , when a score of his fellows came running up and overpowered me . 
They bound my hands behind me with long rawhide thongs and then surveyed me critically . 
I found them fine looking specimens of manhood , for the most part . 
There were some among them who bore a resemblance to the Sto lu and were hairy but the majority had massive heads and not unlovely features . 
There was little about them to suggest the ape , as in the Sto lu , Bo lu and Alus . 
I expected them to kill me at once , but they did not . 
Instead they questioned me but it was evident that they did not believe my story , for they scoffed and laughed . 
The Galus have turned you out , they cried . 
If you go back to them , you will die . 
If you remain here , you will die . 
We shall kill you but first we shall have a dance and you shall dance with us the dance of death . 
It sounded quite reassuring ! But I knew that I was not to be killed immediately , and so I took heart . 
All about , upon the ground and swarming the ledges before the entrances , were hundreds of members of the tribe . 
Some of the Band lu women were quite comely . 
The Alus are all bearded , but among the Bo lu the beard disappears in the women . 
The Sto lu men show a sparse beard , the Band lu none and there is little hair upon the bodies of their women . 
The members of the tribe showed great interest in me , especially in my clothing , the like of which , of course , they never had seen . 
They pulled and hauled upon me , and some of them struck me but for the most part they were not inclined to brutality . 
It was only the hairier ones , who most closely resembled the Sto lu , who maltreated me . 
At last my captors led me into a great cave in the mouth of which a fire was burning . 
The floor was littered with filth , including the bones of many animals , and the atmosphere reeked with the stench of human bodies and putrefying flesh . 
Often they were super imposed upon each other until it required careful examination to trace out the various outlines . 
The Band lu , however , did not have the bow and arrow , and in this respect they differ from their extinct progenitors , or descendants , of Western Europe . 
In a far recess of the cavern my captors bade me halt . 
Again my hands were secured , and this time my feet as well . 
I could not but marvel at the immensity of this great underground grotto . 
Already I had traversed several hundred yards of it , from many points of which other corridors diverged . 
I believe that I am not ordinarily hysterically apprehensive yet I must confess that under the conditions with which I was confronted , I felt my nerves to be somewhat shaken . 
I craned my neck about , and stared through the inky darkness for the twin spots of blazing hate which I knew would herald the coming of my executioner . 
During that period of eternity many events of my life passed before my mental vision , a vast parade of friends and occurrences which would be blotted out forever on the morrow . 
I cursed myself for the foolish act which had taken me from the search party that so depended upon me , and I wondered what progress , if any , they had made . 
Quite probable it was that they were already searching for me but that they would ever find a trace of me I doubted . 
I reeked with cold sweat , and my flesh crawled I could feel it crawl . 
The waters , the land , the air teem with it , and always it is being devoured by some other form of life . 
Life is the cheapest thing in Caspak , as it is the cheapest thing on earth and , doubtless , the cheapest cosmic production . 
Presently it was so close that I could hear its breathing , and then it touched me and leaped quickly back as though it had come upon me unexpectedly . 
For long moments no sound broke the sepulchral silence of the cave . 
And then , subdued , but filled with pent emotion , a voice cried Tom ! I think I nearly fainted , so great was the reaction . 
Ajor ! I managed to say . 
Ajor , my girl , can it be you ? Oh , Tom ! she cried again in a trembly little voice and flung herself upon me , sobbing softly . 
I had not known that Ajor could cry . 
With difficulty she had reached it , after having been stalked by a cave lion and almost seized . 
I trembled at the risk she had run . 
Brave little girl ! She would have risked her life willingly to save me . 
Then she had set out through those winding passages and in total darkness had groped her way , guided solely by a marvelous sense of direction , to where I lay . 
I had come to doubt if there was such a thing as a mother in Caspak , a mother such as we know . 
From the Bo lu to the Kro lu there is no word which corresponds with our word mother . 
They speak of ata and cor sva jo , meaning reproduction and from the beginning , and point toward the south but no one has a mother . 
We retraced our steps and sought the point from which we had started , but only succeeded in losing ourselves the more . 
And the darkness ! It was almost palpable , and utterly depressing . 
At the time I attributed her attitude to something akin to a doglike devotion to a new master who had been kind to her . 
I can take oath to the fact that I did not think it was anything more . 
Whether we had been imprisoned in the cliff for a day or a week I could not say nor even now do I know . 
We became very tired and hungry the hours dragged we slept at least twice , and then we rose and stumbled on , always weaker and weaker . 
There were ages during which the trend of the corridors was always upward . 
It was heartbreaking work for people in the state of exhaustion in which we then were , but we clung tenaciously to it . 
We stumbled and fell we sank through pure physical inability to retain our feet but always we managed to rise at last and go on . 
I still retained the heavy burden of my armament but with the rifle slung to my back , my hands were free . 
There came a time when Ajor could no longer walk , and then it was that I picked her up in my arms and carried her . 
Barely had I sufficient strength to take a score of steps at a time then I would have to sink down and rest for five to ten minutes . 
I don't know what force urged me on and kept me going in the face of an absolute conviction that my efforts were utterly futile . 
Her sweet voice , now almost inaudible from weakness , implored me to abandon her and save myself she seemed to think only of me . 
What I said to her then came very simply and naturally to my lips . 
It couldn't very well have been otherwise , I imagine , for with death so close , I doubt if people are much inclined to heroics . 
I would rather not get out at all , Ajor , I said to her , than to get out without you . 
We were resting against a rocky wall , and Ajor was leaning against me , her head on my breast . 
I could feel her press closer to me , and one hand stroked my arm in a weak caress but she didn't say anything , nor were words necessary . 
It's no use , Ajor , I said , I've come as far as I can . 
It may be that if I sleep , I can go on again after , but I knew that that was not true , and that the end was near . 
Yes , sleep , said Ajor . 
We will sleep together forever . 
She crept close to me as I lay on the hard floor and pillowed her head upon my arm . 
I turned my eyes quickly upon Ajor , fearful for what the light might disclose but she still breathed , though very faintly . 
I tried to rise , and found that sleep had given me back a portion of my strength and then I tasted the water and was further refreshed . 
This revived her so that she raised her lids , and when she saw me , she smiled . 
What happened ? she asked . 
Where are we ? We are at the end of the corridor , I replied , and daylight is coming in from the outside world just ahead . 
We are saved , Ajor ! She sat up then and looked about , and then , quite womanlike , she burst into tears . 
It was the reaction , of course and then too , she was very weak . 
However , there were trees , and among them we soon descried edible fruits with which we broke our long fast . 
Chapter We spent two days upon the cliff top , resting and recuperating . 
There was some small game which gave us meat , and the little pools of rainwater were sufficient to quench our thirst . 
The sun came out a few hours after we emerged from the cave , and in its warmth we soon cast off the gloom which our recent experiences had saddled upon us . 
Upon the morning of the third day we set out to search for a path down to the valley . 
We had a splendid view from our lofty cliff top . 
Dimly , to the west , we could see the farther shore of the inland sea , and southwest the large southern island loomed distinctly before us . 
A little east of north was the northern island , which Ajor , shuddering , whispered was the home of the Wieroo the land of Oo oh . 
It lay at the far end of the lake and was barely visible to us , being fully sixty miles away . 
Ajor also told me that the mainland east of Oo oh was her land the land of the Galu . 
She pointed out the cliffs at its southern boundary , which mark the frontier , south of which lies the country of Kro lu the archers . 
I would certainly have given a lot for my plane at that moment , for with it , twenty minutes would have landed us within the confines of Ajor's country . 
Here we went more slowly , lest we should be set upon by some member of the tribe . 
We must have passed about half the Band lu cave levels before we were accosted , and then a huge fellow stepped out in front of me , barring our further progress . 
From me his gaze went to Ajor . 
You are a true Galu , he said to Ajor , but this man is of a different mold . 
He has the face of a Galu , but his weapons and the strange skins he wears upon his body are not of the Galus nor of Caspak . 
Who is he ? He is Tom , replied Ajor succinctly . 
There is no such people , asserted the Band lu quite truthfully , toying with his spear in a most suggestive manner . 
My name is Tom , I explained , and I am from a country beyond Caspak . 
I am from America , a land of which you never heard , and I am seeking others of my countrymen who are in Caspak and from whom I am lost . 
I have no quarrel with you or your people . 
Let us go our way in peace . 
You are going there ? he asked , and pointed toward the north . 
I am , I replied . 
He was silent for several minutes , apparently weighing some thought in his mind . 
What is that ? he asked . 
And what is that ? He pointed first at my rifle and then to my pistol . 
They are weapons , I replied , weapons which kill at a great distance . 
I pointed to the women in the pool beneath us . 
With this , I said , tapping my pistol , I could kill as many of those women as I cared to , without moving a step from where we now stand . 
He looked his incredulity , but I went on . 
And with this I weighed my rifle at the balance in the palm of my right hand I could slay one of those distant warriors . 
And I waved my left hand toward the tiny figures of the hunters far to the north . 
Do it , he cried derisively , and then it may be that I shall believe the balance of your strange story . 
But I do not wish to kill any of them , I replied . 
Why should I ? Why not ? he insisted . 
They would have killed you when they had you prisoner . 
They would kill you now if they could get their hands on you , and they would eat you into the bargain . 
But I know why you do not try it it is because you have spoken lies your weapon will not kill at a great distance . 
It is only a queerly wrought club . 
For all I know , you are nothing more than a lowly Bo lu . 
Why should you wish me to kill your own people ? I asked . 
They are no longer my people , he replied proudly . 
Last night , in the very middle of the night , the call came to me . 
Like that it came into my head and he struck his hands together smartly once that I had risen . 
I have been waiting for it and expecting it for a long time today I am a Krolu . 
When these things are done , I can go to the chief of the Kro lu , and he dare not refuse me . 
That is why you may kill those low Band lu if you wish to live , for I am in a hurry . 
But why do you wish to kill me ? I asked . 
He looked puzzled and finally gave it up . 
I do not know , he admitted . 
It is the way in Caspak . 
If we do not kill , we shall be killed , therefore it is wise to kill first whomever does not belong to one's own people . 
They will kill me if they find me in the coslupak so will the Kro lu if they come upon me before I have won my Kro lu weapons and jerkin . 
You would kill me if you could , and that is the reason I know that you speak lies when you say that your weapons will kill at a great distance . 
Would they , you would long since have killed me . 
Come ! I have no more time to waste in words . 
I will spare the woman and take her with me to the Kro lu , for she is comely . 
And with that he advanced upon me with raised spear . 
My rifle was at my hip at the ready . 
It was difficult to bring myself to take a human life . 
Ajor stood at my shoulder , her knife ready in her hand and a sneer on her lips at his suggestion that he would take her with him . 
Just as I thought I should have to fire , a chorus of screams broke from the women beneath us . 
I saw the man halt and glance downward , and following his example my eyes took in the panic and its cause . 
Screaming , the women were rushing madly back to the pool . 
It will do them no good , remarked the man , a trace of excitement in his voice . 
Together have we come up from the beginning . 
He raised his spear above his head and poised it ready to hurl downward at the lion . 
She is nearest to him , he muttered . 
He will get her and she will never come to me among the Kro lu , or ever thereafter . 
It is useless ! No warrior lives who could hurl a weapon so great a distance . 
But even as he spoke , I was leveling my rifle upon the great brute below and as he ceased speaking , I squeezed the trigger . 
The man , toward whom I had immediately turned after firing , lest he should pursue his threatened attack , stood staring at me in amazement and admiration . 
Why , he asked , if you could do that , did you not kill me long before ? I told you , I replied , that I had no quarrel with you . 
I do not care to kill men with whom I have no quarrel . 
But he could not seem to get the idea through his head . 
I can believe now that you are not of Caspak , he admitted , for no Caspakian would have permitted such an opportunity to escape him . 
And your weapon ! he continued . 
You spoke true words when I thought you spoke lies . 
And then , suddenly Let us be friends ! I turned to Ajor . 
Can I trust him ? I asked . 
They are not sufficiently cultured to have become adept in hypocrisy , treason and dissimulation . 
There are , of course , a few exceptions . 
We can go north together , continued the warrior . 
I will fight for you , and you can fight for me . 
Until death will I serve you , for you have saved So al , whom I had given up as dead . 
He threw down his spear and covered both his eyes with the palms of his two hands . 
I looked inquiringly toward Ajor , who explained as best she could that this was the form of the Caspakian oath of allegiance . 
You need never fear him after this , she concluded . 
What should I do ? I asked . 
Take his hands down from before his eyes and return his spear to him , she explained . 
I did as she bade , and the man seemed very pleased . 
I then asked what I should have done had I not wished to accept his friendship . 
They told me that had I walked away , the moment that I was out of sight of the warrior we would have become deadly enemies again . 
But I could so easily have killed him as he stood there defenseless ! I exclaimed . 
Yes , replied the warrior , but no man with good sense blinds his eyes before one whom he does not trust . 
It was rather a decent compliment , and it taught me just how much I might rely on the loyalty of my new friend . 
I was glad to have him with us , for he knew the country and was evidently a fearless warrior . 
I wished that I might have recruited a battalion like him . 
So we hastened down the narrow path , reaching the foot of the cliffs but a short distance ahead of the women . 
As she approached nearer I could see that she was a very comely creature , and like all her sex that I had seen in Caspak , apparently young . 
It is So al ! exclaimed To mar . 
Is she mad that she follows me thus ? In another moment the young woman stopped , panting , before us . 
Yes , she went on , the call came to me just before I quit the pool but I did not know that it had come to you . 
I can see it in your eyes , To mar , my To mar ! We shall go on together ! And she threw herself into his arms . 
So al was a mighty fine looking girl , built like a tigress as to strength and sinuosity , but withal sweet and womanly . 
Ajor and I came to be very fond of her , and she was , I think , equally fond of us . 
To mar was very much of a man a savage , if you will , but none the less a man . 
It would have been very helpful to us could we have made friends with them , as their country abutted directly upon that of the Galus . 
Their friendship would have meant that Ajor's dangers were practically passed , and that I had accomplished fully one half of my long journey . 
In view of what I had passed through , I often wondered what chance I had to complete that journey in search of my friends . 
She asked her why she had left her own people and how she had come so far south as the country of the Alus , where I had found her . 
At first Ajor hesitated to explain but at last she consented , and for the first time I heard the complete story of her origin and experiences . 
For my benefit she entered into greater detail of explanation than would have been necessary had I been a native Caspakian . 
I am a cos ata lo , commenced Ajor , and then she turned toward me . 
who did not come from an egg and thus on up from the beginning . 
I was a babe at my mother's breast . 
Only among the Galus are such , and then but infrequently . 
I knew both my mother and my father , as only such as I may . 
My father is high chief among the Galus . 
Now , when my father heard this , he was angry but he was also afraid afraid for me , who am cosata lo . 
He called me to him and told me what he had heard , pointing out two ways in which we might frustrate Du seen . 
The alternative was flight until Du seen should have been overcome and punished . 
I chose the latter and fled toward the south . 
Beyond the confines of the Galu country is little danger from the Wieroo , who seek ordinarily only Galus of the highest orders . 
There are two excellent reasons for this One is that from the beginning of time jealousy had existed between the Wieroo and the Galus as to which would eventually dominate the world . 
It seems generally conceded that that race which first reaches a point of evolution which permits them to produce young of their own species and of both sexes must dominate all other creatures . 
It is indeed a strange condition , for while our greatest enemies hate and fear us , they dare not exterminate us , knowing that they too would become extinct but for us . 
Ajor always spoke of the world as though nothing existed beyond Caspak . 
She could not seem to grasp the truth of my origin or the fact that there were countless other peoples outside her stern barrier cliffs . 
She apparently felt that I came from an entirely different world . 
Where it was and how I came to Caspak from it were matters quite beyond her with which she refused to trouble her pretty head . 
Well , she continued , and so I ran away to hide , intending to pass the cliffs to the south of Galu and find a retreat in the Kro lu country . 
It would be dangerous , but there seemed no other way . 
However , to a cos ata lo any fate is preferable to that of falling into the clutches of the frightful Wieroo , from whose land none returns . 
I had been sleeping peacefully for several hours when I was awakened by a slight noise within the cavern . 
The moon was shining brightly , illumining the entrance , against which I saw silhouetted the dread figure of a Wieroo . 
The cave was shallow , the entrance narrow . 
But a few feet separated us when I sprang to my feet and dashed madly toward my menacer in a vain effort to dodge past him and reach the outside world . 
It was madness of course , for even had I succeeded temporarily , the Wieroo would have but followed and swooped down upon me from above . 
As it was , he reached forth and seized me , and though I struggled , he overpowered me . 
In the duel his long , white robe was nearly torn from him , and he became very angry , so that he trembled and beat his wings together in his rage . 
He asked me my name but I would not answer him , and that angered him still more . 
At last he dragged me to the entrance of the cave , lifted me in his arms , spread his great wings and leaping into the air , flapped dismally through the night . 
I saw the moonlit landscape sliding away beneath me , and then we were out above the sea and on our way to Oo oh , the country of the Wieroo . 
The dim outlines of Oo oh were unfolding below us when there came from above a loud whirring of giant wings . 
The Wieroo and I glanced up simultaneously , to see a pair of huge jo oos swooping down upon us . 
The Wieroo wheeled and dropped almost to sea level , and then raced southward in an effort to outdistance our pursuers . 
The great creatures , notwithstanding their enormous weight , are swift on their wings but the Wieroo are swifter . 
Even with my added weight , the creature that bore me maintained his lead , though he could not increase it . 
Faster than the fastest wind we raced through the night , southward along the coast . 
Sometimes we rose to great heights , where the air was chill and the world below but a blur of dim outlines but always the jo oos stuck behind us . 
One of the jo oos gained on us and succeeded in heading us , so that my captor had to turn in toward the coast . 
Further and further they forced him to the left lower and lower he sank . 
More labored was his breathing , and weaker the stroke of his once powerful wings . 
We were not ten feet above the ground when they overtook us , and at the edge of a forest . 
One of them seized the Wieroo by his right wing , and in an effort to free himself , he loosed his grasp upon me , dropping me to earth . 
Like a frightened ecca I leaped to my feet and raced for the sheltering sanctuary of the forest , where I knew neither could follow or seize me . 
Then I turned and looked back to see two great reptiles tear my abductor asunder and devour him on the spot . 
I was saved yet I felt that I was lost . 
How far I was from the country of the Galus I could not guess nor did it seem probable that I ever could make my way in safety to my native land . 
Day was breaking soon the carnivora would stalk forth for their first kill I was armed only with my knife . 
I shuddered , and then I fled . 
Through the hideous dangers that my forebears had endured in the earlier stages of their human evolution I fled and always pursuing was the hairy monster that had discovered me . 
Later he was joined by others of his kind . 
They were the speechless men , the Alus , from whom you rescued me , my Tom . 
It was most discomforting , because it reminded me of love and I knew that I never could love this half baked little barbarian . 
This was our last day together . 
Thus it goes until the Kro lu are fewer in number than any of the others and here the law reverses , for the Galus outnumber the Kro lu . 
And Galus come up both from the west and east coasts . 
By now I was obtaining some idea of the Caspakian scheme of evolution , which partly accounted for the lack of young among the races I had so far seen . 
Ajor told me that the Galus country was still higher and considerably colder , which accounted for the scarcity of reptiles . 
The change in form and kinds of the lower animals was even more marked than the evolutionary stages of man . 
The diminutive ecca , or small horse , became a rough coated and sturdy little pony in the Kro lu country . 
I rather imagine that they are a very early life which is rapidly nearing extinction in Caspak , though wherever they are found , they constitute a menace to all forms of life . 
It was mid afternoon when To mar and So al bade us good bye . 
What I saw was a party of Band lu warriors large , fierce appearing men . 
From the direction of their march I saw that they were returning to their caves , and that if we remained where we were , they would pass without discovering us . 
They have a prisoner , she whispered . 
He is a Kro lu . 
And then I saw him , the first fully developed Krolu I had seen . 
He was a fine looking savage , tall and straight with a regal carriage . 
To mar was a handsome fellow but this Kro lu showed plainly in his every physical attribute a higher plane of evolution . 
They will kill him ? I whispered to Ajor . 
The dance of death , she replied , and I shuddered , so recently had I escaped the same fate . 
It seemed cruel that one who must have passed safely up through all the frightful stages of human evolution within Caspak , should die at the very foot of his goal . 
I raised my rifle to my shoulder and took careful aim at one of the Band lu . 
If I hit him , I would hit two , for another was directly behind the first . 
What would you do ? she asked . 
They are all our enemies . 
I am going to save him from the dance of death , I replied , enemy or no enemy , and I squeezed the trigger . 
At the report , the two Band lu lunged forward upon their faces . 
I handed my rifle to Ajor , and drawing my pistol , stepped out in full view of the startled party . 
The Band lu did not run away as had some of the lower orders of Caspakians at the sound of the rifle . 
Instead , the moment they saw me , they let out a series of demoniac war cries , and raising their spears above their heads , charged me . 
The Kro lu stood silent and statuesque , watching the proceedings . 
He made no attempt to escape , though his feet were not bound and none of the warriors remained to guard him . 
There were ten of the Band lu coming for me . 
She had practiced these new accomplishments often , but little had I thought they would make a marksman of her so quickly . 
With six of their fellows put out of the fight so easily , the remaining six sought cover behind some low bushes and commenced a council of war . 
Suddenly one of them rose and launched his spear . 
It was the most marvelous exhibition of speed I have ever witnessed . 
It seemed to me that he had scarce gained an upright position when the weapon was half way upon its journey , speeding like an arrow toward Ajor . 
With a howl of dismay the six Band lu rose from their shelter and raced away toward the south . 
My Tom ! she said , and took my hand in hers . 
That was all My Tom ! and a pressure of the hand . 
Her Tom ! Something stirred within my bosom . 
Was it exaltation or was it consternation ? Impossible ! I turned away almost brusquely . 
Come ! I said , and strode off toward the Kro lu prisoner . 
The Kro lu stood watching us with stolid indifference . 
I presume that he expected to be killed but if he did , he showed no outward sign of fear . 
His eyes , indicating his greatest interest , were fixed upon my pistol or the rifle which Ajor still carried . 
I cut his bonds with my knife . 
As I did so , an expression of surprise tinged and animated the haughty reserve of his countenance . 
What are you going to do with me ? he asked . 
You are free , I replied . 
Go home , if you wish . 
Why don't you kill me ? he inquired . 
Why should I kill you ? I have risked my life and that of this young lady to save your life . 
To speak always of a beautiful young girl as a she may be literal but it seems far from gallant . 
The Kro lu concentrated his steady , level gaze upon me for at least a full minute . 
Who are you , man of strange skins ? he asked . 
Your she is Galu but you are neither Galu nor Krolu nor Band lu , nor any other sort of man which I have seen before . 
Tell me from whence comes so mighty a warrior and so generous a foe . 
It is a long story , I replied , but suffice it to say that I am not of Caspak . 
I am a stranger here , and let this sink in I am not a foe . 
I have no wish to be an enemy of any man in Caspak , with the possible exception of the Galu warrior Du seen . 
Du seen ! he exclaimed . 
You are an enemy of Du seen ? And why ? Because he would harm Ajor , I replied . 
You know him ? He cannot know him , said Ajor . 
Du seen rose from the Kro lu long ago , taking a new name , as all do when they enter a new sphere . 
He cannot know him , as there is no intercourse between the Kro lu and the Galu . 
Du seen would be chief of the Galus , and he has come to the Kro lu for help . 
Never had Kro lu and Galu had friendly relations by the savage laws of Caspak they were deadly enemies , for only so can the several races maintain their individuality . 
Will the Kro lu join him ? asked Ajor . 
Will they invade the country of Jor my father ? The younger Kro lu favor the plan , replied the warrior , since they believe they will thus become Galus immediately . 
They hope to span the long years of change through which they must pass in the ordinary course of events and at a single stride become Galus . 
We also tell them that even then they will never become a true Galu race , since there will still be those among them who can never rise . 
It is all right to raid the Galu country occasionally for plunder , as our people do but to attempt to conquer it and hold it is madness . 
For my part , I have been content to wait until the call came to me . 
I feel that it cannot now be long . 
What is your name ? asked Ajor . 
Chal az , replied the man . 
You are chief of the Kro lu ? Ajor continued . 
No , it is Al tan who is chief of the Kro lu of the east , answered Chal az . 
He has been chief ever since , before I came up from the Band lu , and I can see no change in him in all those years . 
In fact , he still appears to be more Band lu than Kro lu . 
I asked them what batu meant , as I had not before heard the word . 
Some never progress beyond the Alu stage others stop as Bo lu , as Sto lu , as Bandlu or as Kro lu . 
It was not entirely plain to me even with this explanation , since I couldn't understand how there could be different generations of peoples who apparently had no offspring . 
Yet I was commencing to get a slight glimmer of the strange laws which govern propagation and evolution in this weird land . 
They greeted Chal az with a volley of questions as they approached slowly from all sides , their heavy bows fitted with long , sharp arrows . 
Upon Ajor and me they looked with covetousness in the one instance and suspicion in the other but after they had heard Chal az's story , their attitude was more friendly . 
A huge savage did all the talking . 
He was a mountain of a man , yet perfectly proportioned . 
This is Al tan the chief , said Chal az by way of introduction . 
Then he told something of my story , and Al tan asked me many questions of the land from which I came . 
It was the mention of the hydroaeroplane which precipitated the first outspoken skepticism , and then Ajor came to my defense . 
I saw it with my own eyes ! she exclaimed . 
I saw him flying through the air in battle with a Jo oo . 
The Alus were chasing me , and they saw and ran away . 
Whose is this she ? demanded Al tan suddenly , his eyes fixed fiercely upon Ajor . 
For a moment there was silence . 
Ajor looked up at me , a hurt and questioning expression on her face . 
Whose she is this ? repeated Al tan . 
Al tan eyed her for several minutes and then turned to me . 
Can you keep her ? he asked , just the tinge of a sneer upon his face . 
I laid my palm upon the grip of my pistol and answered that I could . 
He saw the move , glanced at the butt of the automatic where it protruded from its holster , and smiled . 
Then he turned and raising his great bow , fitted an arrow and drew the shaft far back . 
His warriors , supercilious smiles upon their faces , stood silently watching him . 
His bow was the longest and the heaviest among them all . 
A mighty man indeed must he be to bend it yet Al tan drew the shaft back until the stone point touched his left forefinger , and he did it with consummate ease . 
Then he raised the shaft to the level of his right eye , held it there for an instant and released it . 
When the arrow stopped , half its length protruded from the opposite side of a six inch tree fifty feet away . 
I saw that some reply was necessary , and so in a single motion , I drew my gun , dropped it on the still quivering arrow and pulled the trigger . 
That it had its effect was immediately noticeable , but I am none too sure that it helped my cause with Al tan . 
What is the meaning of this ? I demanded , and before Al tan could reply , Chal az raised his voice in our behalf . 
I wished only to detain him that he may be feasted tonight in the village of Al tan the Kro lu . 
In the morning he may go his way . 
Al tan will not hinder him . 
Therefore , in order to disarm him of any thought that I might entertain suspicion as to his sincerity , I promptly and courteously accepted his invitation . 
I am glad , he said , that I do not dwell in your country among such savage peoples . 
Here , in Caspak , men fight with men when they meet men of different races but their weapons are first for the slaying of beasts in the chase and in defense . 
We do not fashion weapons solely for the killing of man as do your peoples . 
Your country must indeed be a savage country , from which you are fortunate to have escaped to the peace and security of Caspak . 
The dead man was stripped of his belongings and left where he had died the carnivora would take care of his burial . 
The trophies that these Kro lu left to the meat eaters would have turned an English big game hunter green with envy . 
I was much interested in their shields , especially after I saw one used in defense against the attack of a saber tooth tiger . 
The huge creature had charged us without warning from a clump of dense bushes where it was lying up after eating . 
It was met with an avalanche of spears , some of which passed entirely through its body , with such force were they hurled . 
But Chal az was ready . 
Throwing aside his bow , he crouched behind his large oval shield , in the center of which was a hole about six inches in diameter . 
The shield was held by tight loops to his left arm , while in his right hand he grasped his heavy knife . 
Bristling with spears and arrows , the great cat hurled itself upon the shield , and down went Chal az upon his back with the shield entirely covering him . 
When Chal az arose , he glanced at the sky and remarked that it looked like rain . 
The others already had resumed the march toward the village . 
For some unaccountable reason the whole thing reminded me of a friend who once shot a cat in his backyard . 
For three weeks he talked of nothing else . 
It was almost dark when we reached the village a large palisaded enclosure of several hundred leaf thatched huts set in groups of from two to seven . 
The huts were hexagonal in form , and where grouped were joined so that they resembled the cells of a bee hive . 
One hut meant a warrior and his mate , and each additional hut in a group indicated an additional female . 
Along the top of the palisade sharpened stakes had been driven at all sorts of angles . 
It was the first time since my plane had topped the barrier cliffs of Caspak that I had felt any sense of peace or security . 
My hand wandered to the velvet cheek of the girl I had claimed as mine , and to her luxuriant hair and the golden fillet which bound it close to her shapely head . 
It was the first time that passion had tinged my intercourse with Ajor . 
We were alone , and the hut was ours until morning . 
But now from beyond the palisade in the direction of the main gate came the hallooing of men and the answering calls and queries of the guard . 
Returning hunters , no doubt . 
We heard them enter the village amidst the barking dogs . 
I have forgotten to mention the dogs of Kro lu . 
The village swarmed with them , gaunt , wolflike creatures that guarded the herd by day when it grazed without the palisade , ten dogs to a cow . 
During the day they fed plentifully upon the beasts of prey which they killed in protection of the herd , so that their keep amounted to nothing at all . 
The fellow halted before us and addressed me , saying that Al tan desired my presence at his hut . 
I had eaten of the lotus flower of safety dangers no longer threatened for they had ceased to be . 
The messenger led me through the labyrinthine alleys to an open plaza near the center of the village . 
At one end of this plaza was a long hut , much the largest that I had yet seen , before the door of which were many warriors . 
I could see that the interior was lighted and that a great number of men were gathered within . 
Once inside the council hut , for such it appeared to be , I found a large concourse of warriors seated , or rather squatted , around the floor . 
Lying about among the warriors or wandering restlessly to and fro were a number of savage dogs . 
The warriors eyed me curiously as I entered , especially the Galus , and then I was conducted into the center of the group and led forward toward Al tan . 
As I advanced I felt one of the dogs sniffing at my heels , and of a sudden a great brute leaped upon my back . 
As I turned to thrust it aside before its fangs found a hold upon me , I beheld a huge Airedale leaping frantically about me . 
It was Nobs , dear old Nobs . 
Bowen Tyler's Nobs , who had loved me next to his master . 
Where is the master of this dog ? I asked , turning toward Al tan . 
The chieftain inclined his head toward the Galu standing at his side . 
He belongs to Du seen the Galu , he replied . 
He belongs to Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
, of Santa Monica , I retorted , and I want to know where his master is . 
The dog is mine , he said . 
He came to me cor sva jo , and he is unlike any dog in Caspak , being kind and docile and yet a killer when aroused . 
I would not part with him . 
I do not know the man of whom you speak . 
So this was Du seen ! This was the man from whom Ajor had fled . 
I wondered if he knew that she was here . 
I wondered if they had sent for me because of her but after they had commenced to question me , my mind was relieved they did not mention Ajor . 
Their interest seemed centered upon the strange world from which I had come , my journey to Caspak and my intentions now that I had arrived . 
I answered them frankly as I had nothing to conceal and assured them that my only wish was to find my friends and return to my own country . 
They were a very imposing set of men tall and straight and handsome . 
About their heads were bands of gold like that which Ajor wore , and from their left shoulders depended the leopard tails of the Galus . 
Ajor had had no blanket , having lost it during her flight from the attentions of Du seen nor was she so heavily incrusted with gold as these male members of her tribe . 
The audience must have lasted fully an hour when Al tan signified that I might return to my hut . 
All the time Nobs had lain quietly at my feet but the instant that I turned to leave , he was up and after me . 
Duseen called to him but the terrier never even so much as looked in his direction . 
I had almost reached the doorway leading from the council hall when Al tan rose and called after me . 
Stop , stranger ! The beast of Du seen the Galu follows you . 
The dog is not Du seen's , I replied . 
He belongs to my friend , as I told you , and he prefers to stay with me until his master is found . 
And I turned again to resume my way . 
Al tan followed him , and it was evident that both were angry . 
Du seen , a weapon half drawn , approached truculently . 
The beast is mine , he reiterated . 
Would you steal him ? He is not yours nor mine , I replied , and I am not stealing him . 
If he wishes to follow you , he may I will not interfere but if he wishes to follow me , he shall nor shall you prevent . 
I turned to Al tan . 
Is not that fair ? I demanded . 
Let the dog choose his master . 
Du seen , without waiting for Al tan's reply , reached for Nobs and grasped him by the scruff of the neck . 
I did not interfere , for I guessed what would happen and it did . 
With a savage growl Nobs turned like lightning upon the Galu , wrenched loose from his hold and leaped for his throat . 
The man stepped back and warded off the first attack with a heavy blow of his fist , immediately drawing his knife with which to meet the Airedale's return . 
And Nobs would have returned , all right , had not I spoken to him . 
In a low voice I called him to heel . 
I was puzzled at his behavior , and then I recalled that To mar , though he had warned me , had appeared not to wish to seem friendly with me . 
I could not understand their attitude , and was trying to puzzle out some sort of explanation , when the matter was suddenly driven from my mind by the report of a firearm . 
As I entered the doorway , I called her name aloud . 
As the six men leaped upon me , an angry growl burst from behind them . 
Like a demon of hate he sprang among those Kro lu fighting men , tearing , rending , ripping with his long tusks and his mighty jaws . 
As I did so , I kept a grip upon the man's arm , carrying it over one shoulder . 
Then I leaned suddenly forward and hurled my antagonist over my head to a hasty fall at the opposite side of the hut . 
I never saw any creature so quick upon its feet as was that great Airedale , nor such frightful ferocity as he manifested in his attacks . 
Yet they were no cowards , and only by teamwork did Nobs and I overcome them at last . 
We would rush for a man , simultaneously , and as Nobs leaped for him upon one side , I would strike at his head with the stone hatchet from the other . 
As the last man went down , I heard the running of many feet approaching us from the direction of the plaza . 
To be captured now would mean death yet I could not attempt to leave the village without first ascertaining the whereabouts of Ajor and releasing her if she were held a captive . 
And why ? With all my concern for the welfare of my friends who had accompanied me to Caprona , and of my best friend of all , Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
I was not in love now the very thought was preposterous . 
How could I , Thomas Billings , the right hand man of the late Bowen J. Tyler , Sr . 
Tom Billings in love with a squaw ! I shuddered at the thought . 
My name was called in a low voice , and a man stepped out beside me as I halted with raised knife . 
In here ! It is my hut , and they will not search it . 
A hole in the roof permitted the smoke from burning oil egress yet the atmosphere was far from lucid . 
Here Chal az motioned me to a seat upon a furry hide spread upon the earthen floor . 
I am your friend , he said . 
You saved my life and I am no ingrate as is the batu Al tan . 
I will serve you , and there are others here who will serve you against Al tan and this renegade Galu , Du seen . 
But where is Ajor ? I asked , for I cared little for my own safety while she was in danger . 
Ajor is safe , too , he answered . 
We learned the designs of Al tan and Du seen . 
The latter , learning that Ajor was here , demanded her and Al tan promised that he should have her but when the warriors went to get her To mar went with them . 
Ajor tried to defend herself . 
She killed one of the warriors , and then To mar picked her up in his arms when the others had taken her weapons from her . 
It all happened very quickly . 
To mar and I were in the council hut when Du seen attempted to take the dog from you . 
I was seeking To mar for this work . 
He ran out immediately and accompanied the warriors to your hut while I remained to watch what went on within the council hut and to aid you if you needed aid . 
What has happened since you know . 
I thanked him for his loyalty and then asked him to take me to Ajor but he said that it could not be done , as the village streets were filled with searchers . 
Chal az was absent for a long time several hours which seemed an eternity to me . 
All sounds of pursuit had long since ceased , and I was becoming uneasy because of his protracted absence when I heard him returning through the other apartments of his dwelling . 
He was perturbed when he entered that in which I awaited him , and I saw a worried expression upon his face . 
What is wrong ? I asked . 
Have they found Ajor ? No , he replied but Ajor has gone . 
She learned that you had escaped them and was told that you had left the village , believing that she had escaped too . 
So al could not detain her . 
She made her way out over the top of the palisade , armed with only her knife . 
Then I must go , I said , rising . 
Nobs rose and shook himself . 
He had been dead asleep when I spoke . 
Yes , agreed Chal az , you must go at once . 
Du seen leaves at daylight to search for her . 
He leaned close to my ear and whispered There are many to follow and help you . 
We will rise as Luata has ordained that we shall rise , and only thus . 
If I had my weapons and my ammunition , I could do much . 
Do you know where they are ? No , he said , they have disappeared . 
And then Wait ! You cannot go forth half armed , and garbed as you are . 
You are going into the Galu country , and you must go as a Galu . 
Come ! And without waiting for a reply , he led me into another apartment , or to be more explicit , another of the several huts which formed his cellular dwelling . 
Here was a pile of skins , weapons , and ornaments . 
Remove your strange apparel , said Chal az , and I will fit you out as a true Galu . 
I have slain several of them in the raids of my early days as a Kro lu , and here are their trappings . 
I saw the wisdom of his suggestion , and as my clothes were by now so ragged as to but half conceal my nakedness , I had no regrets in laying them aside . 
It is a rawhide rope , not dissimilar to those of the Western plains and cow camps of my youth . 
The honda is a golden oval and accurate weight for the throwing of the noose . 
This heavy honda , Chal az explained , is used as a weapon , being thrown with great force and accuracy at an enemy and then coiled in for another cast . 
In hunting and in battle , they use both the noose and the honda . 
In so far as the sensation was concerned , I might as well have been entirely naked , so short and light was the tunic . 
Entirely outfitted I would not have known myself , so strange was my garb and my armament . 
Fully equipped , except for a blanket , I followed Chal az from his domicile into the dark and deserted alleys of Kro lu . 
Silently we crept along , Nobs silent at heel , toward the nearest portion of the palisade . 
Here Chal az bade me farewell , telling me that he hoped to see me soon among the Galus , as he felt that the call soon would come to him . 
Chapter To run up the inclined surface of the palisade and drop to the ground outside was the work of but a moment , or would have been but for Nobs . 
I had to put my rope about him after we reached the top , lift him over the sharpened stakes and lower him upon the outside . 
As Nobs and I swung along in the growing light of the coming day , I was impressed by the lessening numbers of savage beasts the farther north I traveled . 
With the decrease among the carnivora , the herbivora increased in quantity , though anywhere in Caspak they are sufficiently plentiful to furnish ample food for the meateaters of each locality . 
The wild cattle , antelope , deer , and horses I passed showed changes in evolution from their cousins farther south . 
The kine were smaller and less shaggy , the horses larger . 
He would dart in and away so quickly that not even the lightning like movements of the great cats could reach him . 
I have seen him tantalize them thus until they fairly screamed in rage . 
The southern face of these cliffs loomed high and forbidding , rising to an altitude of some two hundred feet , sheer and precipitous , without a break that the eye could perceive . 
How I was to find a crossing I could not guess . 
Whether to search to the east toward the still loftier barrier cliffs fronting upon the ocean , or westward in the direction of the inland sea was a question which baffled me . 
Were there many passes or only one ? I had no way of knowing . 
I could but trust to chance . 
We followed the base of the cliffs for a considerable distance . 
The ground was rolling and tree dotted and covered with grazing animals , alone , in pairs and in herds a motley aggregation of the modern and extinct herbivore of the world . 
A huge woolly mastodon stood swaying to and fro in the shade of a giant fern a mighty bull with enormous upcurving tusks . 
Near him grazed an aurochs bull with a cow and a calf , close beside a lone rhinoceros asleep in a dust hole . 
Nobs was a parvenu but it failed to worry him . 
As we neared the inland sea we saw more flying reptiles and several great amphibians , but none of them attacked us . 
As we were topping a rise in the middle of the afternoon , I saw something that brought me to a sudden stop . 
I could see that they were Galus , and I guessed that Du seen led them . 
They had taken a shorter route to the pass and so had overhauled me . 
I could see them plainly , for they were no great distance away , and saw with relief that Ajor was not with them . 
The cliffs before them were broken and ragged , those coming from the east overlapping the cliffs from the west . 
Into the defile formed by this overlapping the party filed . 
I could see them climbing upward for a few minutes , and then they disappeared from view . 
When the last of them had passed from sight , I rose and bent my steps in the direction of the pass the same pass toward which Nobs had evidently been leading me . 
I went warily as I approached it , for fear the party might have halted to rest . 
A dozen men could hold off forever in that narrow pass all the hordes which might be brought up from the south yet there it lay entirely unguarded . 
The Galus might be a great people in Caspak but they were pitifully inefficient in even the simpler forms of military tactics . 
I was surprised that even a man of the Stone Age should be so lacking in military perspicacity . 
Nevertheless he took unwarranted chances . 
With one squad of a home guard company I could have conquered Caspak . 
The trees , the flowers and the shrubs were of a hardier type , and I realized that at night the Galu blanket might be almost a necessity . 
Acacia and eucalyptus predominated among the trees yet there were ash and oak and even pine and fir and hemlock . 
The tree life was riotous . 
The forests were dense and peopled by enormous trees . 
At last I had come to the Galu country . 
I was glad that I was not batu . 
Greatly then did I regret my rifle . 
Never in my life had I shot an arrow , but I knew how it was done , and fitting the shaft to my string , I aimed carefully and let drive . 
At the same instant I called to Nobs and leaped to me feet . 
The arrow caught the doe full in the side , and in the same moment Nobs was after her . 
She turned to flee with the two of us pursuing her , Nobs with his great fangs bared and I with my short spear poised for a cast . 
The balance of the herd sprang quickly away but the hurt doe lagged , and in a moment Nobs was beside her and had leaped at her throat . 
He had her down when I came up , and I finished her with my spear . 
It didn't take me long to have a fire going and a steak broiling , and while I was preparing for my own feast , Nobs was filling himself with raw venison . 
Never have I enjoyed a meal so heartily . 
On the second day of my experience of the Galu country I came upon a bunch of as magnificent horses as it has ever been my lot to see . 
They were dark bays with blazed faces and perfect surcingles of white about their barrels . 
Their forelegs were white to the knees . 
Their markings were almost identical , indicating a purity of strain that might have persisted since long ages ago . 
The stallion of my choice grazed with a filly and two yearlings a little apart from the balance of the herd and nearest to the forest and to me . 
At my whispered Charge ! Nobs flattened himself to the ground , and I knew that he would not again move until I called him , unless danger threatened me from the rear . 
Carefully I crept forward toward my unsuspecting quarry , coming undetected to the concealment of a bush not more than twenty feet from him . 
Here I quietly arranged my noose , spreading it flat and open upon the ground . 
Yes , I had it beautifully worked out , and I waited until he should turn in my direction . 
This time there was no bush within fifty feet of them , and I was at a loss as to how to get within safe roping distance . 
As I stood debating the question in my mind , I was almost upon the point of making the attempt at the long throw . 
I had plenty of rope , this Galu weapon being fully sixty feet long . 
However , the chances were more in favor of my foozling the long throw than that Nobs would fall down in his part if I gave him the chance . 
Having come to a decision , I had to creep back to Nobs and get him , and then with him at my heels return to a large bush near the four horses . 
It was a beautiful sight . 
And then Nobs turned in behind them and trotted slowly back toward me . 
He did not bark , nor come rushing down upon them , and when he had come closer to them , he proceeded at a walk . 
The splendid creatures seemed more curious than fearful , making no effort to escape until Nobs was quite close to them then they trotted slowly away , but at right angles . 
And now the fun and trouble commenced . 
The stallion , however , had notions of his own about being headed , and the result was as pretty a race as one would care to see . 
Nobs was between him and the main herd , to which the yearling and filly had already fled . 
As I stood waiting for Nobs' return , I could not but speculate upon my chances should I be attacked by some formidable beast . 
Clothes , to a man accustomed to wearing clothes , impart a certain self confidence lack of them induces panic . 
But no beast attacked me , though I saw several menacing forms passing through the dark aisles of the forest . 
At last I commenced to worry over Nobs' protracted absence and to fear that something had befallen him . 
Neither was running so fast or furiously as when last I had seen them . 
The horse , as he approached me , I could see was laboring hard yet he kept gamely to his task , and Nobs , too . 
The splendid fellow was driving the quarry straight toward me . 
I crouched behind my bush and laid my noose in readiness to throw . 
As the two approached my hiding place , Nobs reduced his speed , and the stallion , evidently only too glad of the respite , dropped into a trot . 
Instantly he wheeled to dash off at right angles . 
I braced myself with the rope around my hip and brought him to a sudden stand . 
Rearing and struggling , he fought for his liberty while Nobs , panting and with lolling tongue , came and threw himself down near me . 
He seemed to know that his work was done and that he had earned his rest . 
A dozen times he reared and tried to break away but always I spoke soothingly to him and after an hour of effort I succeeded in reaching his head and stroking his muzzle . 
Then I gathered a handful of grass and offered it to him , and always I talked to him in a quiet and reassuring voice . 
I had expected a battle royal but on the contrary I found his taming a matter of comparative ease . 
Though wild , he was gentle to a degree , and of such remarkable intelligence that he soon discovered that I had no intention of harming him . 
After that , all was easy . 
No horse ever learned more quickly the meaning of the rein and the pressure of the knees . 
I think he soon learned to love me , and I know that I loved him while he and Nobs were the best of pals . 
I had a friend who was once in the French flying corps , and when Ace let himself out , he certainly flew . 
I was a new man , imbued with a sense of superiority that led me to feel that I could go forth and conquer all Caspak single handed . 
Instantly I recognized the quarry as Ajor . 
The entire party was fully a mile away from me , and they were crossing my path at right angles . 
Ajor a few hundred yards in advance of those who followed her . 
One of her pursuers was far in advance of the others , and was gaining upon her rapidly . 
With a word and a pressure of the knees I sent Ace leaping out into the open , and with Nobs running close alongside , we raced toward her . 
At first none of them saw us but as we neared Ajor , the pack behind the foremost pursuer discovered us and set up such a howl as I never before have heard . 
They were all Galus , and I soon recognized the foremost as Du seen . 
I could not understand it , but I could only urge Ace to greater speed , and most nobly did the wondrous creature respond to my demands . 
If ever a four footed creature approximated flying , it was Ace that day . 
Du seen , intent upon his brutal design , had as yet not noticed us . 
We had snatched her from the very clutches of Du seen , who halted , mystified and raging . 
Ajor , too , was mystified , as we had come up from diagonally behind her so that she had no idea that we were near until she was swung to Ace's back . 
The little savage turned with drawn knife to stab me , thinking that I was some new enemy , when her eyes found my face and she recognized me . 
He had run into one of those numerous springs which cover Caspak . 
Sometimes they are little lakes , again but tiny pools , and often mere quagmires of mud , as was this one overgrown with lush grasses which effectually hid its treacherous identity . 
It was evident that we were doomed . 
Slay me ! begged Ajor . 
Let me die at thy loved hands rather than beneath the knife of this hateful thing , for he will kill me . 
He has sworn to kill me . 
Today they searched for me and found me and as I fled , Du seen ran after me crying that he would slay me . 
Kill me , my Tom , and then fall upon thine own spear , for they will kill you horribly if they take you alive . 
Nobs had followed us into the bog and had done fairly well at first , but when he neared us he too sank to his belly and could only flounder about . 
We were in this predicament when Du seen and his followers approached the edge of the horrible swamp . 
I saw that Al tan was with him and many other Kro lu warriors . 
The alliance against Jor the chief had , therefore , been consummated , and this horde was already marching upon the Galu city . 
I sighed as I thought how close I had been to saving not only Ajor but her father and his people from defeat and death . 
Beyond the swamp was a dense wood . 
Could we have reached this , we would have been safe but it might as well have been a hundred miles away as a hundred yards across that hidden lake of sticky mud . 
Upon the edge of the swamp Du seen and his horde halted to revile us . 
They could not reach us with their hands but at a command from Du seen they fitted arrows to their bows , and I saw that the end had come . 
Ajor huddled close to me , and I took her in my arms . 
I love you , Tom , she said , only you . 
Down went the Galu and Kro lu warriors like tenpins before that deadly fusillade . 
Each was tall and straight and wonderfully muscled yet they differed as Ace might differ from a perfect specimen of another species . 
Around me were all my company and the man we had searched a new world to find . 
Tyler and Hollis and Short and all the rest of us Americans nearly worked our jaws loose on the march back to the village , and for days afterward we kept it up . 
Two men with electric drills driven from the dynamos aboard the Toreador drilled two holes four feet apart in the face of the cliff and in the same horizontal planes . 
The holes slanted slightly downward . 
From then on , they fought their way north in search of me , after a vain and perilous effort to enter the hideous reptile infested country to the south . 
The reunion between Bowen and Nobs was marked by a frantic display upon Nobs' part , which almost stripped Bowen of the scanty attire that the Galu custom had vouchsafed him . 
When we arrived at the Galu city , Lys La Rue was waiting to welcome us . 
Neither Bowen nor the party from the Toreador had seen any sign of Bradley and his party . 
They had been so long lost now that any hopes for them must be definitely abandoned . 
The Galus had heard rumors of them , as had the Western Kro lu and Band lu but none had seen aught of them since they had left Fort Dinosaur months since . 
We rested in Jor's village for a fortnight while we prepared for the southward journey to the point where the Toreador was to lie off shore in wait for us . 
During these two weeks Chal az came up from the Krolu country , now a full fledged Galu . 
He told us that the remnants of Al tan's party had been slain when they attempted to re enter Kro lu . 
Chal az had been made chief , and when he rose , had left the tribe under a new leader whom all respected . 
Nobs stuck close to Bowen but Ace and Ajor and I went out upon many long rides through the beautiful north Galu country . 
At last came the time for our departure upon the following morning we were to set out toward the south and the Toreador and dear old California . 
I had asked Ajor to go with us but Jor her father had refused to listen to the suggestion . 
No pleas could swerve him from his decision Ajor , the cos ata lo , from whom might spring a new and greater Caspakian race , could not be spared . 
Morning came more quickly than I could have wished . 
I rose and breakfasted , but saw nothing of Ajor . 
It was best , I thought , that I go thus without the harrowing pangs of a last farewell . 
The party formed for the march , an escort of Galu warriors ready to accompany us . 
I could not even bear to go to Ace's corral and bid him farewell . 
The night before , I had given him to Ajor , and now in my mind the two seemed inseparable . 
It was the last straw . 
Good bye old man , I said . 
He looked at me in surprise . 
Good bye , old man , he said , and grasped my hand . 
I thought you'd do it in the end . 
