The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
Part I. Introduction , Worship , And Persecution Of Images . 
Revolt Of Italy And Rome . 
Temporal Dominion Of The Popes . 
Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
Character And Coronation Of Charlemagne . 
Restoration And Decay Of The Roman Empire In The West . 
Constitution Of The Germanic Body . 
The Mosaic law had severely proscribed all representations of the Deity and that precept was firmly established in the principles and practice of the chosen people . 
Perhaps some recent and imperfect converts of the Gnostic tribe might crown the statues of Christ and St . 
The first introduction of a symbolic worship was in the veneration of the cross , and of relics . 
The most audacious pencil might tremble in the rash attempt of defining , by forms and colors , the infinite Spirit , the eternal Father , who pervades and sustains the universe . 
Nec intelligunt homines ineptissimi , quod si sentire simulacra et moveri possent , adoratura hominem fuissent a quo sunt expolita . 
Lactantius is the last , as well as the most eloquent , of the Latin apologists . 
Their raillery of idols attacks not only the object , but the form and matter . 
See this History , vol . 
This general history of images is drawn from the xxiid book of the Hist . 
des Eglises Reformees of Basnage , tom . 
He was a Protestant , but of a manly spirit and on this head the Protestants are so notoriously in the right , that they can venture to be impartial . 
See the perplexity of poor Friar Pagi , Critica , tom . 
In this distress , a bold and dexterous invention assured at once the likeness of the image and the innocence of the worship . 
The style and sentiments of a Byzantine hymn will declare how far their worship was removed from the grossest idolatry . 
The fruitful precedent was speedily transferred to the Virgin Mary , and the saints and martyrs . 
Luke and the Evangelist , who was perhaps a physician , has been forced to exercise the occupation of a painter , so profane and odious in the eyes of the primitive Christians . 
The learned Assemannus has brought up the collateral aid of three Syrians , St . 
their vague belief is probably derived from the Greeks . 
Among the herd of bigots who are forcibly driven from this convenient , but untenable , post , I am ashamed , with the Grabes , Caves , Tillemonts , c . 
but his superficial tract on the Christian religion owes its credit to his name , his style , and the interested applause of our clergy . 
It is the sword and buckler of , Gregory II . 
See Ducange , in Gloss . 
celebrates it yet it was no more than a copy , since he adds . 
See , in the genuine or supposed works of John Damascenus , two passages on the Virgin and St . 
The worship of images had stolen into the church by insensible degrees , and each petty step was pleasing to the superstitious mind , as productive of comfort , and innocent of sin . 
par M. Sismondi , vol . 
but surely the superstitious Greek is unjust to the superstition of the Germans of the xiith century . 
Of such adventurers , the most fortunate was the emperor Leo the Third , who , from the mountains of Isauria , ascended the throne of the East . 
The sect of the Iconoclasts was supported by the zeal and despotism of six emperors , and the East and West were involved in a noisy conflict of one hundred and twenty years . 
In their loud and loyal acclamations , they celebrated the merits of their temporal redeemer and to his zeal and justice they intrusted the execution of their spiritual censures . 
Our original , but not impartial , monuments of the Iconoclasts must be drawn from the Acts of the Councils , tom . 
and the historical writings of Theophanes , Nicephorus , Manasses , Cedrenus , Zonoras , c . 
have treated the subject with learning , passion , and credulity . 
are cast into the Iconoclast scale . 
With this mutual aid , and opposite tendency , it is easy for us to poise the balance with philosophic indifference . 
Note Compare Schlosser , Geschichte der Bilder sturmender Kaiser , Frankfurt am Main a book of research and impartiality M. Some flowers of rhetoric . 
The witty John of Damascus converts it into slaves of their belly , c . 
He is accused of proscribing the title of saint styling the Virgin , Mother of Christ comparing her after her delivery to an empty purse of Arianism , Nestorianism , c . 
is somewhat embarrassed between the interest of a Protestant and the duty of an orthodox divine . 
The first hostilities of Leo were directed against a lofty Christ on the vestibule , and above the gate , of the palace . 
Constantine flew for refuge to his paternal mountains but he descended at the head of the bold and affectionate Isaurians and his final victory confounded the arms and predictions of the fanatics . 
In every act of open and clandestine treason , the emperor felt the unforgiving enmity of the monks , the faithful slaves of the superstition to which they owed their riches and influence . 
They prayed , they preached , they absolved , they inflamed , they conspired the solitude of Palestine poured forth a torrent of invective and the pen of St . 
John Damascenus , the last of the Greek fathers , devoted the tyrant's head , both in this world and the next . 
The holy confessor Theophanes approves the principle of their rebellion , Gregory II . 
applauds the zeal of the Byzantine women who killed the Imperial officers . 
John , or Mansur , was a noble Christian of Damascus , who held a considerable office in the service of the caliph . 
After this deliverance , he resigned his office , distributed his wealth , and buried himself in the monastery of St . 
Sabas , between Jerusalem and the Dead Sea . 
The legend is famous but his learned editor , Father Lequien , has a unluckily proved that St . 
If the authenticity of this piece be suspicious , we are sure that in other works , no longer extant , Damascenus bestowed on Constantine the titles . 
M. ! Compare Schlosser , p . 
and highly solaces himself with the controversial pun . 
In ecclesiastical rank and jurisdiction , the patriarch of Constantinople and the pope of Rome were nearly equal . 
A distant and dangerous station , amidst the Barbarians of the West , excited the spirit and freedom of the Latin bishops . 
Peter and , after the loss of her legions and provinces , the genius and fortune of the popes again restored the supremacy of Rome . 
They are defended only by the moderate Catholics , for the most part , of the Gallican church , who respect the saint , without approving the sin . 
For this Gregory is styled by Cedrenus . 
It may be observed , that the Greeks are apt to confound the times and actions of two Gregories . 
A. D. , No. , dignum exemplum ! Bellarmin . 
de Romano Pontifice , l . 
Sigonius , de Regno Italiae , l . 
Yet such is the change of Italy , that Sigonius is corrected by the editor of Milan , Philipus Argelatus , a Bolognese , and subject of the pope . 
who , with a hundred more , tread in the footsteps of the centuriators of Magdeburgh . 
a disciple of the Gallican school In the field of controversy I always pity the moderate party , who stand on the open middle ground exposed to the fire of both sides . 
both of the ixth century , translate and approve the Greek text of Theophanes . 
The style is barbarous , the narrative partial , the details are trifling yet it must be read as a curious and authentic record of the times . 
The epistles of the popes are dispersed in the volumes of Councils . 
Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
How deplorable is the change ! how tremendous the scandal ! You now accuse the Catholics of idolatry and , by the accusation , you betray your own impiety and ignorance . 
After this decent salutation , the pope attempts the usual distinction between the idols of antiquity and the Christian images . 
The former were the fanciful representations of phantoms or daemons , at a time when the true God had not manifested his person in any visible likeness . 
To the impudent and inhuman Leo , more guilty than a heretic , he recommends peace , silence , and implicit obedience to his spiritual guides of Constantinople and Rome . 
The limits of civil and ecclesiastical powers are defined by the pontiff . 
Peter may lawfully chastise the kings of the earth . 
You declare , with foolish arrogance , I will despatch my orders to Rome I will break in pieces the image of St . 
Peter and Gregory , like his predecessor Martin , shall be transported in chains , and in exile , to the foot of the Imperial throne . 
But it is our duty to live for the edification and support of the faithful people nor are we reduced to risk our safety on the event of a combat . 
Peter , whose image you threaten to destroy . 
The Barbarians have submitted to the yoke of the gospel , while you alone are deaf to the voice of the shepherd . 
These pious Barbarians are kindled into rage they thirst to avenge the persecution of the East . 
Abandon your rash and fatal enterprise reflect , tremble , and repent . 
If you persist , we are innocent of the blood that will be spilt in the contest may it fall on your own head ! The two epistles of Gregory II . 
in , and by Pagi in . 
Such is the force of prejudice , that some papists have praised the good sense and moderation of these letters . 
This proximity of the Lombards is hard of digestion . 
forcibly reckons the xxivth stadia , not from Rome , but from the limits of the Roman duchy , to the first fortress , perhaps Sora , of the Lombards . 
I rather believe that Gregory , with the pedantry of the age , employs stadia for miles , without much inquiry into the genuine measure . 
The pope appears to have imposed on the ignorance of the Greeks he lived and died in the Lateran and in his time all the kingdoms of the West had embraced Christianity . 
Neither zeal nor policy allowed him to hesitate and the haughty strain in which Gregory addressed the emperor displays his confidence in the truth of his doctrine or the powers of resistance . 
Without depending on prayers or miracles , he boldly armed against the public enemy , and his pastoral letters admonished the Italians of their danger and their duty . 
To punish this flagitious deed , and restore his dominion in Italy , the emperor sent a fleet and army into the Adriatic Gulf . 
Amidst the triumph of the Catholic arms , the Roman pontiff convened a synod of ninety three bishops against the heresy of the Iconoclasts . 
Their moderate councils delayed and prevented the election of a new emperor , and they exhorted the Italians not to separate from the body of the Roman monarchy . 
I shall transcribe the important and decisive passage of the Liber Pontificalis . 
Respiciens ergo pius vir profanam principis jussionem , jam contra Imperatorem quasi contra hostem se armavit , renuens haeresim ejus , scribens ubique se cavere Christianos , eo quod orta fuisset impietas talis . 
who talks of Pharaoh's numbering the male children of Israel . 
This mode of taxation was familiar to the Saracens and , most unluckily for the historians , it was imposed a few years afterwards in France by his patron Louis XIV . 
whose deeper shade of barbarism marks the difference between Rome and Ravenna . 
the defeat of the Greeks , c . 
Yet Leo was undoubtedly comprised in the si quis . 
extiterit , sit extorris a cor pore D. N. Jesu Christi vel totius ecclesiae unitate . 
homicidas non esse qui excommunicatos trucidant . 
The popes style Leo and Constantine Copronymus , Imperatores et Domini , with the strange epithet of Piissimi . 
represents Christ , who delivers the keys to St . 
When the kings were banished , the republic reposed on the firm basis which had been founded by their wisdom and virtue . 
Their scanty remnant , the offspring of slaves and strangers , was despicable in the eyes of the victorious Barbarians . 
The style of the Roman senate and people was revived , but the spirit was fled and their new independence was disgraced by the tumultuous conflict of vicentiousness and oppression . 
The want of laws could only be supplied by the influence of religion , and their foreign and domestic counsels were moderated by the authority of the bishop . 
The Christian humility of the popes was not offended by the name of Dominus , or Lord and their face and inscription are still apparent on the most ancient coins . 
Their temporal dominion is now confirmed by the reverence of a thousand years and their noblest title is the free choice of a people , whom they had redeemed from slavery . 
and that Terracina was usurped by the Greeks . 
On the extent , population , c . 
who will not be accused of too much credulity for the early ages of Rome . 
For the sins of Cato or Tully Minos might have imposed as a fit penance the daily perusal of this barbarous passage . 
as well as Gibbon , was applied by the angry bishop to the Byzantine Romans , whom , indeed , he admits to be the genuine descendants of Romulus . 
M. Pipino regi Francorum , omnis senatus , atque universa populi generalitas a Deo servatae Romanae urbis . 
but in the middle ages they signified little more than nobiles , optimates , c . 
Italiae Medii Aevi , tom . 
On one of these coins we read Hadrianus Papa on the reverse , Vict . 
In the quarrels of ancient Greece , the holy people of Elis enjoyed a perpetual peace , under the protection of Jupiter , and in the exercise of the Olympic games . 
Happy would it have been for the Romans , if a similar privilege had guarded the patrimony of St . 
Peter from the calamities of war if the Christians , who visited the holy threshold , would have sheathed their swords in the presence of the apostle and his successor . 
A memorable example of repentance and piety was exhibited by Liutprand , king of the Lombards . 
The Romans hesitated they entreated they complained and the threatening Barbarians were checked by arms and negotiations , till the popes had engaged the friendship of an ally and avenger beyond the Alps . 
who imitates the license and the spirit of Sallust or Livy . 
have preserved this epistle of Gregory . 
but our chronologists , Pagi , Muratori , c . 
Pepin , and Charlemagne , as far as the year , when it was formed by the last of these princes . 
But the danger was on the banks of the Tyber , the succor on those of the Seine , and our sympathy is cold to the relation of distant misery . 
After soothing the public despair by litanies and orations , he undertook this laborious journey with the ambassadors of the French monarch and the Greek emperor . 
Maurice , and hastened to grasp the right hand of his protector a hand which was never lifted in vain , either in war or friendship . 
The Lombards , after a weak resistance , obtained an ignominious peace , and swore to restore the possessions , and to respect the sanctity , of the Roman church . 
But no sooner was Astolphus delivered from the presence of the French arms , than he forgot his promise and resented his disgrace . 
The second expedition of Pepin was not less rapid and fortunate than the first St . 
Peter was satisfied , Rome was again saved , and Astolphus was taught the lessons of justice and sincerity by the scourge of a foreign master . 
After this double chastisement , the Lombards languished about twenty years in a state of languor and decay . 
Gregory I. had been dead above a century read Gregory III . 
M See this most extraordinary letter in the Codex Carolinus , epist iii . 
The enemies of the popes have charged them with fraud and blasphemy yet they surely meant to persuade rather than deceive . 
This introduction of the dead , or of immortals , was familiar to the ancient orators , though it is executed on this occasion in the rude fashion of the age . 
Except in the divorce of the daughter of Desiderius , whom Charlemagne repudiated sine aliquo crimine . 
But Charlemagne indulged himself in the freedom of polygamy or concubinage . 
James , Life of Charlemagne , p . 
M. See the Annali d'Italia of Muratori , tom . 
, and the three first Dissertations of his Antiquitates Italiae Medii Aevi , tom . 
Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
The mutual obligations of the popes and the Carlovingian family form the important link of ancient and modern , of civil and ecclesiastical , history . 
But the most essential gifts of the popes to the Carlovingian race were the dignities of king of France , and of patrician of Rome . 
I. Under the sacerdotal monarchy of St . 
Peter , the nations began to resume the practice of seeking , on the banks of the Tyber , their kings , their laws , and the oracles of their fate . 
The Franks were perplexed between the name and substance of their government . 
All the powers of royalty were exercised by Pepin , mayor of the palace and nothing , except the regal title , was wanting to his ambition . 
His coronation was twice performed , with the sanction of the popes , by their most faithful servant St . 
Boniface , the apostle of Germany , and by the grateful hands of Stephen the Third , who , in the monastery of St . 
Denys placed the diadem on the head of his benefactor . 
The royal unction of the kings of Israel was dexterously applied the successor of St . 
have treated this subject of the deposition of Childeric with learning and attention , but with a strong bias to save the independence of the crown . 
Yet they are hard pressed by the texts which they produce of Eginhard , Theophanes , and the old annals , Laureshamenses , Fuldenses , Loisielani Not absolutely for the first time . 
On a less conspicuous theatre it had been used , in the vith and viith centuries , by the provincial bishops of Britain and Spain . 
The royal unction of Constantinople was borrowed from the Latins in the last age of the empire . 
Constantine Manasses mentions that of Charlemagne as a foreign , Jewish , incomprehensible ceremony . 
See Selden's Titles of Honor , in his Works , vol . 
See Eginhard , in Vita Caroli Magni , c . 
Childeric was deposed jussu , the Carlovingians were established auctoritate , Pontificis Romani . 
, pretend that these strong words are susceptible of a very soft interpretation . 
Be it so yet Eginhard understood the world , the court , and the Latin language . 
Since the revolt of Italy and the loss of the Exarchate , the distress of the Romans had exacted some sacrifice of their independence . 
The Roman ambassadors presented these patricians with the keys of the shrine of St . 
Peter , as a pledge and symbol of sovereignty with a holy banner which it was their right and duty to unfurl in the defence of the church and city . 
The power and policy of Charlemagne annihilated an enemy , and imposed a master . 
At the distance of one mile , the Flaminian way was lined with the schools , or national communities , of Greeks , Lombards , Saxons , c . 
the Roman youth were under arms and the children of a more tender age , with palms and olive branches in their hands , chanted the praises of their great deliverer . 
Nor was the Frank content with these vain and empty demonstrations of respect . 
The people swore allegiance to his person and family in his name money was coined , and justice was administered and the election of the popes was examined and confirmed by his authority . 
Except an original and self inherent claim of sovereignty , there was not any prerogative remaining , which the title of emperor could add to the patrician of Rome . 
Of these the Franciscan Pagi is the most disposed to make the patrician a lieutenant of the church , rather than of the empire . 
seems to allow of no palliation or escape . 
The gratitude of the Carlovingians was adequate to these obligations , and their names are consecrated , as the saviors and benefactors of the Roman church . 
In this transaction , the ambition and avarice of the popes have been severely condemned . 
Perhaps the humility of a Christian priest should have rejected an earthly kingdom , which it was not easy for him to govern without renouncing the virtues of his profession . 
But in the rigid interpretation of the laws , every one may accept , without injury , whatever his benefactor can bestow without injustice . 
The Greek emperor had abdicated , or forfeited , his right to the Exarchate and the sword of Astolphus was broken by the stronger sword of the Carlovingian . 
Peter , and completed , by this voluntary surrender , the present circle of the ecclesiastical state . 
But , in the cooler moments of absence and reflection , he viewed , with an eye of jealousy and envy , the recent greatness of his ecclesiastical ally . 
weighs this donation with fair and deliberate prudence . 
and the Codex Carolinus supposes , this ample gift . 
Both are contemporary records and the latter is the more authentic , since it has been preserved , not in the Papal , but the Imperial , library . 
is not exempt , I have been guided , in the limits of the Exarchate and Pentapolis , by the Dissertatio Chorographica Italiae Medii Aevi , tom . 
Yet it may be a question whether they gave their own persons or their country . 
The policy and donations of Charlemagne are carefully examined by St . 
who has well studied the Codex Carolinus . 
I believe , with him , that they were only verbal . 
but I see no reasonable objection to these princes so freely disposing of what was not their own . 
Fraud is the resource of weakness and cunning and the strong , though ignorant , Barbarian was often entangled in the net of sacerdotal policy . 
This memorable donation was introduced to the world by an epistle of Adrian the First , who exhorts Charlemagne to imitate the liberality , and revive the name , of the great Constantine . 
According to the legend , the first of the Christian emperors was healed of the leprosy , and purified in the waters of baptism , by St . 
Silvester , the Roman bishop and never was physician more gloriously recompensed . 
His royal proselyte withdrew from the seat and patrimony of St . 
Peter declared his resolution of founding a new capital in the East and resigned to the popes the free and perpetual sovereignty of Rome , Italy , and the provinces of the West . 
This fiction was productive of the most beneficial effects . 
The Greek princes were convicted of the guilt of usurpation and the revolt of Gregory was the claim of his lawful inheritance . 
The popes were delivered from their debt of gratitude and the nominal gifts of the Carlovingians were no more than the just and irrevocable restitution of a scanty portion of the ecclesiastical state . 
The sovereignty of Rome no longer depended on the choice of a fickle people and the successors of St . 
Peter and Constantine were invested with the purple and prerogatives of the Caesars . 
In the revival of letters and liberty , this fictitious deed was transpierced by the pen of Laurentius Valla , the pen of an eloquent critic and a Roman patriot . 
Piissimo Constantino magno , per ejus largitatem S. R. Ecclesia elevata et exaltata est , et potestatem in his Hesperiae partibus largiri olignatus est . 
Quia ecce novus Constantinus his temporibus , c . 
ascribes them to an impostor of the viiith century , who borrowed the name of St . 
has enumerated the several editions of this Act , in Greek and Latin . 
The copy which Laurentius Valla recites and refutes , appears to be taken either from the spurious Acts of St . 
Silvester or from Gratian's Decree , to which , according to him and others , it has been surreptitiously tacked . 
Cardinal Peter Damianus , c . 
the fictitious donations of Lewis the Pious , the Othos , c . 
See a Dissertation of Natalis Alexander , seculum iv . 
a copious extract from the archives of that Benedictine abbey . 
and would have enriched the first volume of the Historia Monastica Italiae of Quirini . 
this animated discourse , which was composed by the author , A. D. , six years after the flight of Pope Eugenius IV . 
It is a most vehement party pamphlet Valla justifies and animates the revolt of the Romans , and would even approve the use of a dagger against their sacerdotal tyrant . 
Che Constantino al buon Silvestro fece . 
Yet this incomparable poem has been approved by a bull of Leo X. See Baronius , A. D. , No. , A. D. , No. , c . 
The cardinal wishes to suppose that Rome was offered by Constantine , and refused by Silvester . 
The act of donation he considers strangely enough , as a forgery of the Greeks . 
qui l'empechai , censurer cette partie de son histoire . 
While the popes established in Italy their freedom and dominion , the images , the first cause of their revolt , were restored in the Eastern empire . 
Under the reign of Constantine the Fifth , the union of civil and ecclesiastical power had overthrown the tree , without extirpating the root , of superstition . 
were secretly cherished by the order and the sex most prone to devotion and the fond alliance of the monks and females obtained a final victory over the reason and authority of man . 
In the restoration of the monks , a thousand images were exposed to the public veneration a thousand legends were inverted of their sufferings and miracles . 
Of this second Nicene council the acts are still extant a curious monument of superstition and ignorance , of falsehood and folly . 
I shall only notice the judgment of the bishops on the comparative merit of image worship and morality . 
A monk had concluded a truce with the daemon of fornication , on condition of interrupting his daily prayers to a picture that hung in his cell . 
His scruples prompted him to consult the abbot . 
The second of these assemblies was approved and rigorously executed by the despotism of Irene , and she refused her adversaries the toleration which at first she had granted to her friends . 
Nicephorus allowed a general liberty of speech and practice and the only virtue of his reign is accused by the monks as the cause of his temporal and eternal perdition . 
Superstition and weakness formed the character of Michael the First , but the saints and images were incapable of supporting their votary on the throne . 
In the purple , Leo the Fifth asserted the name and religion of an Armenian and the idols , with their seditious adherents , were condemned to a second exile . 
His moderation was guarded by timidity but his son Theophilus , alike ignorant of fear and pity , was the last and most cruel of the Iconoclasts . 
The enthusiasm of the times ran strongly against them and the emperors who stemmed the torrent were exasperated and punished by the public hatred . 
After the death of Theophilus , the final victory of the images was achieved by a second female , his widow Theodora , whom he left the guardian of the empire . 
Her measures were bold and decisive . 
Rome and Italy were docile to the voice of their father but the greatest part of the Latin Christians were far behind in the race of superstition . 
a gentleman and a scholar , is infected by the odious contagion . 
See the Acts , in Greek and Latin , of the second Council of Nice , with a number of relative pieces , in the viiith volume of the Councils , p . 
A faithful version , with some critical notes , would provoke , in different readers , a sigh or a smile . 
The pope's legates were casual messengers , two priests without any special commission , and who were disavowed on their return . 
Some vagabond monks were persuaded by the Catholics to represent the Oriental patriarchs . 
one of the warmest Iconoclasts of the age . 
These visits could not be innocent since the daemon of fornication , c . 
The Carolines propose objections against the Nicene synod and such words as these are the flowers of their rhetoric Dementiam . 
derisione dignas naenias , c . 
who sat and voted at Frankfort , must include not only the bishops , but the abbots , and even the principal laymen . 
A polemic must be hard hearted indeed , who does not pity the efforts of Baronius , Pagi , Alexander , Maimbourg , c . 
, to elude this unlucky sentence . 
Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
The difference of language and manners had perpetuated the enmity of the two capitals and they were alienated from each other by the hostile opposition of seventy years . 
The Greek emperors had restored the images , but they had not restored the Calabrian estates and the Illyrian diocese , which the Iconociasts had torn away from the successors of St . 
Peter and Pope Adrian threatens them with a sentence of excommunication unless they speedily abjure this practical heresy . 
to which he adds a reason , most directly opposite to his conduct , that he preferred the salvation of souls and rule of faith to the goods of this transitory world . 
His antagonist Muratori reduces the popes to be no more than the exarchs of the emperor . 
The people was less numerous , but the times were more savage , the prize more important , and the chair of St . 
Peter was fiercely disputed by the leading ecclesiastics who aspired to the rank of sovereign . 
But their enterprise on his life or liberty was disappointed , perhaps by their own confusion and remorse . 
On the festival of Christmas , the last year of the eighth century , Charlemagne appeared in the church of St . 
Peter and , to gratify the vanity of Rome , he had exchanged the simple dress of his country for the habit of a patrician . 
In his familiar conversation , the emperor protested the ignorance of the intentions of Leo , which he would have disappointed by his absence on that memorable day . 
Post patrem lacrymans Carolus haec carmina scripsi . 
Tu mihi dulcis amor , te modo plango pater . 
Nomina jungo simul titulis , clarissime , nostra Adrianus , Carolus , rex ego , tuque pater . 
The poetry might be supplied by Alcuin but the tears , the most glorious tribute , can only belong to Charlemagne . 
Every new pope is admonished Sancte Pater , non videbis annos Petri , twenty five years . 
On the whole series the average is about eight years a short hope for an ambitious cardinal . 
is supported by the credulity of some French annalists but Eginhard , and other writers of the same age , are more natural and sincere . 
Reddita sunt ? mirum est mirum est auferre nequtsse . 
Est tamen in dubio , hinc mirer an inde magis . 
Twice , at the request of Hadrian and Leo , he appeared at Rome , longa tunica et chlamyde amictus , et calceamentis quoque Romano more formatis . 
Almost all these moderns have some religious or national bias . 
The appellation of great has been often bestowed , and sometimes deserved but Charlemagne is the only prince in whose favor the title has been indissolubly blended with the name . 
Without injustice to his fame , I may discern some blemishes in the sanctity and greatness of the restorer of the Western empire . 
His military renown must be tried by the scrutiny of his troops , his enemies , and his actions . 
Alexander conquered with the arms of Philip , but the two heroes who preceded Charlemagne bequeathed him their name , their examples , and the companions of their victories . 
I touch with reverence the laws of Charlemagne , so highly applauded by a respectable judge . 
His laws enforced the imposition of tithes , because the daemons had proclaimed in the air that the default of payment had been the cause of the last scarcity . 
which I have freely and profitably used . 
The author is a man of sense and humanity and his work is labored with industry and elegance . 
But I have likewise examined the original monuments of the reigns of Pepin and Charlemagne , in the th volume of the Historians of France . 
The husband must have been too strong for the historian . 
This charge of incest , as Mr. Hallam justly observes , seems to have originated in a misinterpreted passage of Eginhard . 
Hallam's Middle Ages , vol . 
M. Besides the massacres and transmigrations , the pain of death was pronounced against the following crimes . 
The false pretence of baptism . 
The murder of a priest or bishop . 
has compiled the following statement of Charlemagne's military campaigns . 
the Slaves beyond the Elbe . 
M. In this action the famous Rutland , Rolando , Orlando , was slain cum compluribus aliis . 
The Spaniards are too proud of a victory , which history ascribes to the Gascons , and romance to the Saracens . 
Note In fact , it was a sudden onset of the Gascons , assisted by the Beaure mountaineers , and possibly a few Navarrese . 
Omnis homo ex sua proprietate legitimam decimam ad ecclesiam conferat . 
Experimento enim didicimus , in anno , quo illa valida fames irrepsit , ebullire vacuas annonas a daemonibus devoratas , et voces exprobationis auditas . 
represent Charlemagne as the first legal author of tithes . 
clearly affirms , tentabat et scribere . 
sed parum prospere successit labor praeposterus et sero inchoatus . 
The moderns have perverted and corrected this obvious meaning , and the title of M. Gaillard's dissertation betrays his partiality . 
Note This point has been contested but Mr. Hallam and Monsieur Sismondl concur with Gibbon . 
See Middle Ages , iii . 
Histoire de Francais , tom . 
The sensible observations of the latter are quoted in the Quarterly Review , vol . 
Fleury , I may add , quotes from Mabillon a remarkable evidence that Charlemagne had a mark to himself like an honest , plain dealing man . 
M. See Gaillard , tom . 
, and Schmidt , tom . 
at five feet nine inches of French , about six feet one inch and a fourth English , measure . 
After a long and evasive contest , the rebellion of the dukes of Aquitain was punished by the forfeiture of their province , their liberty , and their lives . 
Harsh and rigorous would have been such treatment of ambitious governors , who had too faithfully copied the mayors of the palace . 
By the reunion of Aquitain , France was enlarged to its present boundaries , with the additions of the Netherlands and Spain , as far as the Rhine . 
The Saracens had been expelled from France by the grandfather and father of Charlemagne but they still possessed the greatest part of Spain , from the rock of Gibraltar to the Pyrenees . 
Amidst their civil divisions , an Arabian emir of Saragossa implored his protection in the diet of Paderborn . 
Charlemagne undertook the expedition , restored the emir , and , without distinction of faith , impartially crushed the resistance of the Christians , and rewarded the obedience and services of the Mahometans . 
The duchy of Beneventum , a Lombard fief , had spread , at the expense of the Greeks , over the modern kingdom of Naples . 
But Arrechis , the reigning duke , refused to be included in the slavery of his country assumed the independent title of prince and opposed his sword to the Carlovingian monarchy . 
The artful flattery of his son Grimoald added the appellation of father , but he asserted his dignity with prudence , and Benventum insensibly escaped from the French yoke . 
Charlemagne was the first who united Germany under the same sceptre . 
The name of Oriental France is preserved in the circle of Franconia and the people of Hesse and Thuringia were recently incorporated with the victors , by the conformity of religion and government . 
The conquest or conversion of those countries is of a more recent age but the first union of Bohemia with the Germanic body may be justly ascribed to the arms of Charlemagne . 
V. He retaliated on the Avars , or Huns of Pannonia , the same calamities which they had inflicted on the nations . 
Some canals of communication between the rivers , the Saone and the Meuse , the Rhine and the Danube , were faintly attempted . 
Their execution would have vivified the empire and more cost and labor were often wasted in the structure of a cathedral . 
for Italy , De Marca for Spain . 
For the middle geography of Germany , I confess myself poor and destitute . 
Eginhard recapitulates , in a few words , the countries subject to his empire . 
was inserted in his Notes the texts of the old Chronicles . 
by Charles the Bald , which deduces this royal pedigree . 
more people , perhaps , and doubtless more money than the march of Charlemagne . 
p , , and the Annals of Muratori . 
Tota in hoc bello Hunnorum nobilitas periit , tota gloria decidit , omnis pecunia et congesti ex longo tempore thesauri direpti sunt . 
I should doubt this in the time of Charlemagne , even if the term expended were substituted for wasted . 
M. Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
The personal and political importance of Charlemagne was magnified by the distress and division of the rest of Europe . 
Two thirds of the Western empire of Rome were subject to Charlemagne , and the deficiency was amply supplied by his command of the inaccessible or invincible nations of Germany . 
But in the choice of his enemies , we may be reasonably surprised that he so often preferred the poverty of the north to the riches of the south . 
The subjugation of Germany withdrew the veil which had so long concealed the continent or islands of Scandinavia from the knowledge of Europe , and awakened the torpid courage of their barbarous natives . 
, and Gaillard , tom . 
, who mentions , with a loose reference , the intercourse of Charlemagne and Egbert , the emperor's gift of his own sword , and the modest answer of his Saxon disciple . 
The anecdote , if genuine , would have adorned our English histories . 
Had he the choice ? M. Guizot has eloquently described the position of Charlemagne towards the Saxons . 
De la son mode de gouvernement et la fondation de son empire la guerre offensive et la conquete voulaient cette vaste et redoutable unite . 
Compare observations in the Quarterly Review , vol . 
, and James's Life of Charlemagne . 
After a war , or battle , which consumed one hundred thousand Franks , the empire was divided by treaty between his three sons , who had violated every filial and fraternal duty . 
Of the greater part , the title and possession were alike doubtful , and the merit was adequate to the contracted scale of their dominions . 
howsoever adverse to the claims of the popes . 
His father , Henry the Fowler , was elected , by the suffrage of the nation , to save and institute the kingdom of Germany . 
Its limits were enlarged on every side by his son , the first and greatest of the Othos . 
Between the Rhine , the Rhone , and the Alps , the successors of Otho acquired a vain supremacy over the broken kingdoms of Burgundy and Arles . 
From that memorable aera , two maxims of public jurisprudence were introduced by force and ratified by time . 
I. That the prince , who was elected in the German diet , acquired , from that instant , the subject kingdoms of Italy and Rome . 
But that he might not legally assume the titles of emperor and Augustus , till he had received the crown from the hands of the Roman pontiff . 
He was the son of Otho , the son of Ludolph , in whose favor the Duchy of Saxony had been instituted , A. D. . 
Ruotgerus , the biographer of a St . 
gives a splendid character of his family . 
is not satisfied of his descent from Witikind . 
he rejects the extravagant and improper scale of the Roman and Carlovingian empires , and discusses with moderation the rights of Germany , her vassals , and her neighbors . 
The Italians , Muratori for instance , are more scrupulous and correct , and only reckon the princes who have been crowned at Rome . 
The French ambassadors were the spectators , and had nearly been the victims , of the conspiracy of Nicephorus , and the national hatred . 
Sophia , the ceremony of his Imperial coronation . 
A treaty of peace and alliance was concluded between the two empires , and the limits of the East and West were defined by the right of present possession . 
But the Greeks soon forgot this humiliating equality , or remembered it only to hate the Barbarians by whom it was extorted . 
During the short union of virtue and power , they respectfully saluted the august Charlemagne , with the acclamations of basileus , and emperor of the Romans . 
The same controversy was revived in the reign of the Othos and their ambassador describes , in lively colors , the insolence of the Byzantine court . 
The Greeks affected to despise the poverty and ignorance of the Franks and Saxons and in their last decline refused to prostitute to the kings of Germany the title of Roman emperors . 
magna tulit patientia , vicitque eorum contumaciam . 
mittendo ad eos crebras legationes , et in epistolis fratres eos appellando . 
Perhaps it was on their account that , like Augustus , he affected some reluctance to receive the empire . 
and of his treaty of marriage with Irene , which is unknown to the Latins . 
more suo , id est lingua Graeca laudes dixerunt , imperatorem eum et appellantes to the latter , Vocato imperatori Francorum , c . 
mistook for Erchempert , when he transcribed it in his Annals . 
Ipse enim vos , non imperatorem , id est sua lingua , sed ob indignationem , id est regem nostra vocabat , Liutprand , in Legat . 
The pope had exhorted Nicephorus , emperor of the Greeks , to make peace with Otho , the august emperor of the Romans quae inscriptio secundum Graecos peccatoria et temeraria . 
In the Christian aristocracy , the principal members of the clergy still formed a senate to assist the administration , and to supply the vacancy , of the bishop . 
Their number was enlarged by the association of the seven deacons of the most considerable hospitals , the seven palatine judges of the Lateran , and some dignitaries of the church . 
But the election was imperfect nor could the pontiff be legally consecrated till the emperor , the advocate of the church , had graciously signified his approbation and consent . 
These acts of prerogative were most speciously excused by the vices of a popular election . 
The bastard son , the grandson , and the great grandson of Marozia , a rare genealogy , were seated in the chair of St . 
Peter , and it was at the age of nineteen years that the second of these became the head of the Latin church . 
His open simony might be the consequence of distress and his blasphemous invocation of Jupiter and Venus , if it be true , could not possibly be serious . 
Peter , lest , in the devout act , they should be violated by his successor . 
The Protestants have dwelt with malicious pleasure on these characters of Antichrist but to a philosophic eye , the vices of the clergy are far less dangerous than their virtues . 
After a long series of scandal , the apostolic see was reformed and exalted by the austerity and zeal of Gregory VII . 
That ambitious monk devoted his life to the execution of two projects . 
I. To fix in the college of cardinals the freedom and independence of election , and forever to abolish the right or usurpation of the emperors and the Roman people . 
To bestow and resume the Western empire as a fief or benefice of the church , and to extend his temporal dominion over the kings and kingdoms of the earth . 
After a contest of fifty years , the first of these designs was accomplished by the firm support of the ecclesiastical order , whose liberty was connected with that of their chief . 
who accurately remarks the form and changes of the election . 
The cardinal bishops so highly exalted by Peter Damianus , are sunk to a level with the rest of the sacred college . 
Firmiter jurantes , nunquam se papam electuros aut audinaturos , praeter consensum et electionem Othonis et filii sui . 
Consult the historical critic , and the Annals of Muratori , for for the election and confirmation of each pope . 
and it is whimsical enough to observe Muratori tempering the invectives of Baronius against the popes . 
But these popes had been chosen , not by the cardinals , but by lay patrons . 
is placed somewhat earlier than Theodora or Marozia and the two years of her imaginary reign are forcibly inserted between Leo IV . 
and the accurate chronology of Pagi , Muratori , and Leibnitz , fixes both events to the year . 
The advocates for Pope Joan produce one hundred and fifty witnesses , or rather echoes , of the xivth , xvth , and xvith centuries . 
They bear testimony against themselves and the legend , by multiplying the proof that so curious a story must have been repeated by writers of every description to whom it was known . 
On those of the ixth and xth centuries , the recent event would have flashed with a double force . 
As false , it deserves that name but I would not pronounce it incredible . 
Peter's chair her amours would have been natural her delivery in the streets unlucky , but not improbable . 
but their brethren were scandalized by this equitable and generous criticism . 
was the son of her husband Alberic , not of her lover , Pope Sergius III . 
, as Muratori has distinctly proved , Ann . 
Her grandson Octavian , otherwise called John XII . 
seem to know of one . 
Hobhouse , Illustrations of Childe Harold , p . 
Between the arts of the popes and the violence of the people , this supremacy was crushed and annihilated . 
Content with the titles of emperor and Augustus , the successors of Charlemagne neglected to assert this local jurisdiction . 
Angelo , which commands the principal bridge and entrance of Rome . 
Her son by the first marriage , Alberic , was compelled to attend at the nuptial banquet but his reluctant and ungraceful service was chastised with a blow by his new father . 
The blow was productive of a revolution . 
Romans , exclaimed the youth , once you were the masters of the world , and these Burgundians the most abject of your slaves . 
They now reign , these voracious and brutal savages , and my injury is the commencement of your servitude . 
, was reduced to the exercise of his spiritual functions . 
His son and heir Octavian assumed , with the pontificate , the name of John XII . 
like his predecessor , he was provoked by the Lombard princes to seek a deliverer for the church and republic and the services of Otho were rewarded with the Imperial dignity . 
Before he repassed the Alps , the emperor chastised the revolt of the people and the ingratitude of John XII . 
In the minority of his son Otho the Third , Rome made a bold attempt to shake off the Saxon yoke , and the consul Crescentius was the Brutus of the republic . 
In the fortress of St . 
It was the design of Otho the Third to abandon the ruder countries of the North , to erect his throne in Italy , and to revive the institutions of the Roman monarchy . 
But his successors only once in their lives appeared on the banks of the Tyber , to receive their crown in the Vatican . 
Their absence was contemptible , their presence odious and formidable . 
They descended from the Alps , at the head of their barbarians , who were strangers and enemies to the country and their transient visit was a scene of tumult and bloodshed . 
For the history of the emperors in Rome and Italy , see Sigonius , de Regno Italiae , Opp . 
, with the Notes of Saxius , and the Annals of Muratori , who might refer more distinctly to the authors of his great collection . 
See the Dissertations of Le Blanc at the end of his treatise des Monnoyes de France , in which he produces some Roman coins of the French emperors . 
Romanorum aliquando servi , scilicet Burgundiones , Romanis imperent ? . 
positively affirms the renovation of the consulship but in the old writers Albericus is more frequently styled princeps Romanorum . 
, apud Schmidt , tom . 
The Marquis Maffei's gallery contained a medal with Imp . 
Hence Hobhouse infers that he affected the empire . 
Hobhouse , Illustrations of Childe Harold , p . 
illustrated by the Notes of Hadrian Valesius and Leibnitz . 
In a quarrel at the coronation of Conrad II . 
Muratori takes leave to observe doveano ben essere allora , indisciplinati , Barbari , e bestials Tedeschi . 
Chapter XLIX Conquest Of Italy By The Franks . 
There is nothing perhaps more adverse to nature and reason than to hold in obedience remote countries and foreign nations , in opposition to their inclination and interest . 
Far different was the situation of the German Caesars , who were ambitious to enslave the kingdom of Italy . 
This irregular tyranny might contend on equal terms with the petty tyrants of Italy nor can the people , or the reader , be much interested in the event of the quarrel . 
But in the eleventh and twelfth centuries , the Lombards rekindled the flame of industry and freedom and the generous example was at length imitated by the republics of Tuscany . 
But their rapid progress , the daily extension of their power and pretensions , were founded on the numbers and spirit of these rising communities . 
After boiling away the flesh . 
Compare Sismondi , Histoire des Republiques Italiannes . 
Raumer , Geschichte der Hohenstauffen . 
Savigny , Geschichte des Romischen Rechts , vol . 
The recent discovery of the Pandects had renewed a science most favorable to despotism and his venal advocates proclaimed the emperor the absolute master of the lives and properties of his subjects . 
The obstinate cities were reduced by the terror or the force of his arms his captives were delivered to the executioner , or shot from his military engines and . 
His grandson contended with their vigor and maturity but Frederic the Second was endowed with some personal and peculiar advantages . 
During sixty years , no emperor appeared in Italy , and the name was remembered only by the ignominious sale of the last relics of sovereignty . 
, apud Schmidt , tom . 
This volume of Muratori contains the originals of the history of Frederic the First , which must be compared with due regard to the circumstances and prejudices of each German or Lombard writer . 
Note Von Raumer has traced the fortunes of the Swabian house in one of the ablest historical works of modern times . 
He may be compared with the spirited and independent Sismondi . 
M. For the history of Frederic II . 
and the house of Swabia at Naples , see Giannone , Istoria Civile , tom . 
The Barbarian conquerors of the West were pleased to decorate their chief with the title of emperor but it was not their design to invest him with the despotism of Constantine and Justinian . 
If the dukes , margraves , and counts of Germany , were less audacious in their claims , the consequences of their success were more lasting and pernicious to the state . 
Instead of aiming at the supreme rank , they silently labored to establish and appropriate their provincial independence . 
As long as the emperors retained the prerogative of bestowing on every vacancy these ecclesiastic and secular benefices , their cause was maintained by the gratitude or ambition of their friends and favorites . 
The secular governors , instead of being recalled at the will of a superior , could be degraded only by the sentence of their peers . 
were divided and alienated by testament and sale and all idea of a public trust was lost in that of a private and perpetual inheritance . 
After the death of Frederic the Second , Germany was left a monster with a hundred heads . 
Such anarchy was the inevitable consequence of the laws and manners of Europe and the kingdoms of France and Italy were shivered into fragments by the violence of the same tempest . 
His learning and judgment have discerned the most interesting facts his simple brevity comprises them in a narrow space . 
His chronological order distributes them under the proper dates and an elaborate index collects them under their respective heads . 
To this work , in a less perfect state , Dr . 
Robertson was gratefully indebted for that masterly sketch which traces even the modern changes of the Germanic body . 
The Corpus Historiae Germanicae of Struvius has been likewise consulted , the more usefully , as that huge compilation is fortified in every page with the original texts . 
Note For the rise and progress of the Hanseatic League , consult the authoritative history by Sartorius Geschichte des Hanseatischen Bandes Theile , Gottingen , . 
New and improved edition by Lappenberg Elamburg , . 
The original Hanseatic League comprehended Cologne and many of the great cities in the Netherlands and on the Rhine . 
The German emperor was no more than the elective and impotent magistrate of an aristocracy of princes , who had not left him a village that he might call his own . 
The army with which he passed the Alps consisted of three hundred horse . 
In the cathedral of St . 
Yet , personally , Charles IV . 
must not be considered as a Barbarian . 
Petrarch always represents him as a polite and learned prince . 
Besides the German and Italian historians , the expedition of Charles IV . 
is painted in lively and original colors in the curious Memoires sur la Vie de Petrarque , tom . 
, by the Abbe de Sade , whose prolixity has never been blamed by any reader of taste and curiosity . 
From this humiliating scene , let us turn to the apparent majesty of the same Charles in the diets of the empire . 
The golden bull , which fixes the Germanic constitution , is promulgated in the style of a sovereign and legislator . 
A hundred princes bowed before his throne , and exalted their own dignity by the voluntary honors which they yielded to their chief or minister . 
At the royal banquet , the hereditary great officers , the seven electors , who in rank and title were equal to kings , performed their solemn and domestic service of the palace . 
The seals of the triple kingdom were borne in state by the archbishops of Mentz , Cologne , and Treves , the perpetual arch chancellors of Germany , Italy , and Arles . 
The great chamberlain , the margrave of Brandenburgh , presented , after the repast , the golden ewer and basin , to wash . 
See the whole ceremony in Struvius , p . 
The republic of Europe , with the pope and emperor at its head , was never represented with more dignity than in the council of Constance . 
See Lenfant's History of that assembly . 
Gravina , Origines Juris Civilis , p . 
The conqueror of Rome and her provinces assumed a popular and legal form of a censor , a consul , and a tribune . 
Six thousand urns have been discovered of the slaves and freedmen of Augustus and Livia . 
But these servants were of the same rank , and possibly not more numerous than those of Pollio or Lentulus . 
They only prove the general riches of the city . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
Part I. Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
Birth , Character , And Doctrine Of Mahomet . 
Propagates His Religion By The Sword . 
Voluntary Or Reluctant Submission Of The Arabs . 
The Claims And Fortunes Of All And His Descendants . 
After pursuing above six hundred years the fleeting Caesars of Constantinople and Germany , I now descend , in the reign of Heraclius , on the eastern borders of the Greek monarchy . 
Their collections , versions , and histories , I shall occasionally notice . 
In the vacant space between Persia , Syria , Egypt , and Aethiopia , the Arabian peninsula may be conceived as a triangle of spacious but irregular dimensions . 
From the northern point of Beles on the Euphrates , a line of fifteen hundred miles is terminated by the Straits of Bebelmandel and the land of frankincense . 
About half this length may be allowed for the middle breadth , from east to west , from Bassora to Suez , from the Persian Gulf to the Red Sea . 
The sides of the triangle are gradually enlarged , and the southern basis presents a front of a thousand miles to the Indian Ocean . 
The common benefits of water are an object of desire and contest and such is the scarcity of wood , that some art is requisite to preserve and propagate the element of fire . 
Such is the general and genuine picture of the climate of Arabia . 
The experience of evil enhances the value of any local or partial enjoyments . 
The maritime districts of Bahrein and Oman are opposite to the realm of Persia . 
The geographers of Arabia may be divided into three classes . 
should lie before the reader , with his Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
Note Of modern travellers may be mentioned the adventurer who called himself Ali Bey but above all , the intelligent , the enterprising the accurate Burckhardt . 
D'Anville , l'Euphrate et le Tigre , p . 
Reland has proved , with much superfluous learning , . 
is no more than a part of the Mare Rubrum , which was extended to the indefinite space of the Indian Ocean . 
In the thirty days , or stations , between Cairo and Mecca , there are fifteen destitute of good water . 
See the route of the Hadjees , in Shaw's Travels , p . 
The aromatics , especially the thus , or frankincense , of Arabia , occupy the xiith book of Pliny . 
Note A brilliant passage in the geographical poem of Dionysius Periegetes embodies the notions of the ancients on the wealth and fertility of Yemen . 
Greek mythology , and the traditions of the gorgeous east , of India as well as Arabia , are mingled together in indiscriminate splendor . 
Compare on the southern coast of Arabia , the recent travels of Lieut . 
the three hundred and fifty eight notes form a classic and original work on the Arabian antiquities . 
The measure of population is regulated by the means of subsistence and the inhabitants of this vast peninsula might be outnumbered by the subjects of a fertile and industrious province . 
These horses are educated in the tents , among the children of the Arabs , with a tender familiarity , which trains them in the habits of gentleness and attachment . 
In the sands of Africa and Arabia , the camel is a sacred and precious gift . 
were occupied by these savages in the time , perhaps , of Cyrus but I can hardly believe that any cannibals were left among the savages in the reign of Justinian . 
See the Specimen Historiae Arabum of Pocock , p . 
the last and most judicious of our Syrian travellers . 
the incomparable articles of the Horse and the Camel , in the Natural History of M. de Buffon . 
At the end of the xiiith century , the horses of Neged were esteemed sure footed , those of Yemen strong and serviceable , those of Hejaz most noble . 
Some latent motive , perhaps of superstition , must have impelled the founders , in the choice of a most unpromising situation . 
Mecca is placed almost at an equal distance , a month's journey , between Yemen on the right , and Syria on the left hand . 
reckons one hundred and sixty four towns in Arabia Felix . 
The size of the towns might be small the faith of the writer might be large . 
Pocock , Specimen , p . 
Note See note to chap . 
The destruction of Meriaba by the Romans is doubtful . 
M. The name of city , Medina , was appropriated , to Yatreb . 
the seat of the prophet . 
The distances from Medina are reckoned by Abulfeda in stations , or days' journey of a caravan , to Bahrein , xv . 
to Damascus or Palestine , xx . 
allows about twenty five English miles for a day's journey . 
to Gaza in Syria , Pliny computes lxv . 
These measures may assist fancy and elucidate facts . 
are taken from the suspicious mouth of an African renegado . 
Note Even in the time of Gibbon , Mecca had not been so inaccessible to Europeans . 
It had been visited by Ludovico Barthema , and by one Joseph Pitts , of Exeter , who was taken prisoner by the Moors , and forcibly converted to Mahometanism . 
His volume is a curious , though plain , account of his sufferings and travels . 
Since that time Mecca has been entered , and the ceremonies witnessed , by Dr . 
Seetzen , whose papers were unfortunately lost by the Spaniard , who called himself Ali Bey and , lastly , by Burckhardt , whose description leaves nothing wanting to satisfy the curiosity . 
See one of these salt houses near Bassora , in D'Herbelot , Bibliot . 
See Sale's Koran , Sura . 
Pocock , Specimen , p . 
Prideaux's Life of Mahomet , p . 
Gagnier , Vie de Mahomet , tom . 
The obvious causes of their freedom are inscribed on the character and country of the Arabs . 
Many ages before Mahomet , their intrepid valor had been severely felt by their neighbors in offensive and defensive war . 
The patient and active virtues of a soldier are insensibly nursed in the habits and discipline of a pastoral life . 
The long memory of their independence is the firmest pledge of its perpetuity and succeeding generations are animated to prove their descent , and to maintain their inheritance . 
When they advance to battle , the hope of victory is in the front in the rear , the assurance of a retreat . 
The legions of Augustus melted away in disease and lassitude and it is only by a naval power that the reduction of Yemen has been successfully attempted . 
has formally demonstrated the truth of Christianity by the independence of the Arabs . 
the extent of the application , and the foundation of the pedigree . 
Note See note to chap . 
The atter point is probably the least contestable of the three . 
of the Othman Empire , p . 
are magnified by history and medals into the Roman conquest of Arabia . 
Note On the ruins of Petra , see the travels of Messrs . 
Irby and Mangles , and of Leon de Laborde . 
affords the most recent and authentic intelligence of the Turkish empire in Arabia . 
Note Niebuhr's , notwithstanding the multitude of later travellers , maintains its ground , as the classical work on Arabia . 
has clearly exposed the freedom of the Nabathaean Arabs , who resisted the arms of Antigonus and his son . 
Aelius Gallus landed near Medina , and marched near a thousand miles into the part of Yemen between Mareb and the Ocean . 
of Horace , attest the virgin purity of Arabia . 
See the imperfect history of Yemen in Pocock , Specimen , p . 
, of Hira , p . 
, of Gassan , p . 
, as far as it could be known or preserved in the time of ignorance . 
Yemanae , published by Johannsen at Bonn particularly the translator's preface . 
who had spoken of them as early as the reign of Marcus . 
who expressly remarks the western and southern position of the Saracens , then an obscure tribe on the borders of Egypt . 
The appellation cannot therefore allude to any national character and , since it was imposed by strangers , it must be found , not in the Arabic , but in a foreign language . 
after expressing contemptuous pity for Gibbon's ignorance , derives the word from Zara , Zaara , Sara , the Desert , whence Saraceni , the children of the Desert . 
The reign of Mavia is famous in ecclesiastical story Pocock , Specimen , p . 
This gift of speech they shared only with the Persians and the sententious Arabs would probably have disdained the simple and sublime logic of Demosthenes . 
Note See , likewise the curious romance of Antar , the most vivid and authentic picture of Arabian manners . 
If a Bedoween discovers from afar a solitary traveller , he rides furiously against him , crying , with a loud voice , Undress thyself , thy aunt is without a garment . 
A ready submission entitles him to mercy resistance will provoke the aggressor , and his own blood must expiate the blood which he presumes to shed in legitimate defence . 
A single robber , or a few associates , are branded with their genuine name but the exploits of a numerous band assume the character of lawful and honorable war . 
The temper of a people thus armed against mankind was doubly inflamed by the domestic license of rapine , murder , and revenge . 
The union of the nation consisted only in a vague resemblance of language and manners and in each community , the jurisdiction of the magistrate was mute and impotent . 
In private life every man , at least every family , was the judge and avenger of his own cause . 
) Note This origin of the Hycsos , though probable , is by no means so certain here is some reason for supposing them Scythians . 
the two historians who wrote of the Ayam al Arab , the battles of the Arabs , lived in the th and th century . 
The harsher features of antiquity may be traced in the Koran , c . 
places the two holy months about the summer solstice . 
But the spirit of rapine and revenge was attempered by the milder influence of trade and literature . 
The genius and merit of a rising poet was celebrated by the applause of his own and the kindred tribes . 
Thirty days were employed in the exchange , not only of corn and wine , but of eloquence and poetry . 
The Arabian poets were the historians and moralists of the age and if they sympathized with the prejudices , they inspired and crowned the virtues , of their countrymen . 
The same hospitality , which was practised by Abraham , and celebrated by Homer , is still renewed in the camps of the Arabs . 
The ferocious Bedoweens , the terror of the desert , embrace , without inquiry or hesitation , the stranger who dares to confide in their honor and to enter their tent . 
The third of these heroes , the blind Arabah , at the hour of prayer , was supporting his steps on the shoulders of two slaves . 
Alas ! he replied , my coffers are empty ! but these you may sell if you refuse , I renounce them . 
At these words , pushing away the youths , he groped along the wall with his staff . 
The freedom of his countrymen disdained the laws of justice they proudly indulged the spontaneous impulse of pity and benevolence . 
the partial or total difference of the dialects of the Arabs . 
I pass slightly I am not fond of repeating words like a parrot . 
denies the boasted superiority of the Bedoweens . 
afford a just and favorable specimen of Arabian wit . 
Note Compare the Arabic proverbs translated by Burckhardt . 
Sale's Preliminary Discourse , p . 
Gagnier , Vie de Mahomet , tom . 
were likewise conspicuous for their liberality and the latter is elegantly praised by an Arabian poet Videbis eum cum accesseris exultantem , ac si dares illi quod ab illo petis . 
Note See the translation of the amusing Persian romance of Hatim Tai , by Duncan Forbes , Esq . 
, among the works published by the Oriental Translation Fund . 
The science of astronomy was cultivated at Babylon but the school of the Arabs was a clear firmament and a naked plain . 
discharges the rain water , and the well Zemzen is protected by a dome from accidental pollution . 
The same rites which are now accomplished by the faithful Mussulman , were invented and practised by the superstition of the idolaters . 
It has been sagaciously conjectured , that the artful legislator indulged the stubborn prejudices of his countrymen . 
has added some valuable remarks . 
The character and position are so correctly apposite , that I am surprised how this curious passage should have been read without notice or application . 
whom Diodorus copies in the rest of the description . 
has raised an objection , as I think , fatal to this hypothesis of Gibbon . 
The temple , situated in the country of the Banizomeneis , was not between the Thamudites and the Sabaeans , but higher up than the coast inhabited by the former . 
Mr. Forster would place it as far north as Moiiah . 
I am not quite satisfied that this will agree with the whole description of Diodorus M. . 
Pocock , Specimen , p . 
From the death of Mahomet we ascend to , from his birth to , years before the Christian aera . 
has corrected and explained from the best authorities . 
Sanchoniatho derives the Phoenician sacrifices from the example of Chronus but we are ignorant whether Chronus lived before , or after , Abraham , or indeed whether he lived at all . 
The reproach of Porphyry but he likewise imputes to the Roman the same barbarous custom , which , A. U. C. , had been finally abolished . 
and may be found in D'Anville's maps , in the mid desert between Chaibar and Tadmor . 
attest the human sacrifices of the Arabs in the vith century . 
in the strange supposition , that hogs can not live in Arabia . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
The religions of the Sabians and Magians , of the Jews and Christians , were disseminated from the Persian Gulf to the Red Sea . 
In a remote period of antiquity , Sabianism was diffused over Asia by the science of the Chaldaeans and the arms of the Assyrians . 
From the observations of two thousand years , the priests and astronomers of Babylon deduced the eternal laws of nature and providence . 
They adored the seven gods or angels , who directed the course of the seven planets , and shed their irresistible influence on the earth . 
John , in the territory of Bassora . 
Seven hundred years before the death of Mahomet , the Jews were settled in Arabia and a far greater multitude was expelled from the Holy Land in the wars of Titus and Hadrian . 
The most rational of the Arabs acknowledged his power , though they neglected his worship and it was habit rather than conviction that still attached them to the relics of idolatry . 
In the story of the Hebrew patriarchs , the Arabs were pleased to discover the fathers of their nation . 
has cast on their religion the curious but superficial glance of a Greek . 
Simplicius , de Coelo , l . 
, apud Marsham , Canon . 
, who doubts the fact , because it is adverse to his systems . 
The earliest date of the Chaldaean observations is the year before Christ . 
After the conquest of Babylon by Alexander , they were communicated at the request of Aristotle , to the astronomer Hipparchus . 
rather excite than gratify our curiosity and the last of these writers confounds Sabianism with the primitive religion of the Arabs . 
But it is a slippery task to ascertain the creed of an ignorant people afraid and ashamed to disclose their secret traditions . 
Note The Codex Nasiraeus , their sacred book , has been published by Norberg whose researches contain almost all that is known of this singular people . 
But their origin is almost as obscure as ever if ancient , their creed has been so corrupted with mysticism and Mahometanism , that its native lineaments are very indistinct . 
The state of the Jews and Christians in Arabia is described by Pocock from Sharestani , c . 
Our versions now extant , whether Jewish or Christian , appear more recent than the Koran but the existence of a prior translation may be fairly inferred , . 
From the perpetual practice of the synagogue of expounding the Hebrew lesson by a paraphrase in the vulgar tongue of the country . 
The base and plebeian origin of Mahomet is an unskilful calumny of the Christians , who exalt instead of degrading the merit of their adversary . 
The grandfather of Mahomet was Abdol Motalleb , the son of Hashem , a wealthy and generous citizen , who relieved the distress of famine with the supplies of commerce . 
Mecca , which had been fed by the liberality of the father , was saved by the courage of the son . 
A treaty was proposed and , in the first audience , the grandfather of Mahomet demanded the restitution of his cattle . 
describe the popular and approved genealogy of the prophet . 
At Mecca , I would not dispute its authenticity at Lausanne , I will venture to observe , . 
That from Ismael to Mahomet , a period of years , they reckon thirty , instead of seventy five , generations . 
Note The most orthodox Mahometans only reckon back the ancestry of the prophet for twenty generations , to Adnan . 
Weil , Mohammed der Prophet , p . 
who is half a Mussulman , attacks the inconsistent faith of the Doctor for believing the miracles of the Delphic Apollo . 
ascribes the miracle to the devil , and extorts from the Mahometans the confession , that God would not have defended against the Christians the idols of the Caaba . 
Weil says that the small pox broke out in the army of Abrahah , but he does not give his authority , p . 
! Amina , or Emina , was of Jewish birth . 
V. Hammer , Geschichte der Assass . 
of Alexander , or the Greeks , , of Bocht Naser , or Nabonassar , , equally lead us to the year . 
While we refine our chronology , it is possible that the illiterate prophet was ignorant of his own age . 
Note The date of the birth of Mahomet is not yet fixed with precision . 
This leaves the point undecided between the years , , , of J. C. See the Memoir of M. Silv . 
de Sacy , on divers events in the history of the Arabs before Mahomet , Mem . 
Weil decides on A. D. . 
M. I copy the honorable testimony of Abu Taleb to his family and nephew . 
Laus Dei , qui nos a stirpe Abrahami et semine Ismaelis constituit , et nobis regionem sacram dedit , et nos judices hominibus statuit . 
Before he spoke , the orator engaged on his side the affections of a public or private audience . 
His memory was capacious and retentive his wit easy and social his imagination sublime his judgment clear , rapid , and decisive . 
Yet the book of nature and of man was open to his view and some fancy has been indulged in the political and philosophical observations which are ascribed to the Arabian traveller . 
Conversation enriches the understanding , but solitude is the school of genius and the uniformity of a work denotes the hand of a single artist . 
Gagnier , Vie de Mahomet , tom . 
surnamed the Father of a Cat , who died in the year of the Hegira . 
Weil has a new tradition , that Mahomet was at one time a shepherd . 
This assimilation to the life of Moses , instead of giving probability to the story , as Dr . 
Weil suggests , makes it more suspicious . 
Those who believe that Mahomet could read or write are incapable of reading what is written with another pen , in the Suras , or chapters of the Koran , vii . 
Mr. White , almost alone , denies the ignorance , to accuse the imposture , of the prophet . 
His arguments are far from satisfactory . 
has observed that the text of the seveth Sura implies that Mahomet could read , the tradition alone denies it , and , according to Dr . 
there is another reading of the tradition , that he could not read well . 
Weil is not quite so successful in explaining away Sura xxix . 
It means , he thinks that he had not read any books , from which he could have borrowed . 
leads his Arabian pupil , like the Telemachus of Fenelon , or the Cyrus of Ramsay . 
His journey to the court of Persia is probably a fiction nor can I trace the origin of his exclamation , Les Grecs sont pour tant des hommes . 
Even Prideaux has observed , that the transaction must have been secret , and that the scene lay in the heart of Arabia . 
Yet Mahomet had never read of the cave of Egeria , ubi nocturnae Numa constituebat amicae , of the Idaean Mount , where Minos conversed with Jove , c . 
The mysteries of the Trinity and Incarnation appear to contradict the principle of the divine unity . 
The creed of Mahomet is free from suspicion or ambiguity and the Koran is a glorious testimony to the unity of God . 
These sublime truths , thus announced in the language of the prophet , are firmly held by his disciples , and defined with metaphysical precision by the interpreters of the Koran . 
A philosophic theist might subscribe the popular creed of the Mahometans a creed too sublime , perhaps , for our present faculties . 
The Collyridian heresy was carried from Thrace to Arabia by some women , and the name was borrowed from the cake , which they offered to the goddess . 
and several others , may excuse the reproach , Arabia haerese haersewn ferax . 
chapters , which proclaim the omnipotence of the Creator . 
because he made man after his own image . 
The God of nature has written his existence on all his works , and his law in the heart of man . 
The miraculous story of Moses is consecrated and embellished in the Koran and the captive Jews enjoy the secret revenge of imposing their own belief on the nations whose recent creeds they deride . 
For the author of Christianity , the Mahometans are taught by the prophet to entertain a high and mysterious reverence . 
The wonders of the genuine and apocryphal gospels are profusely heaped on his head and the Latin church has not disdained to borrow from the Koran the immaculate conception of his virgin mother . 
Sale's Preliminary Discourse , p . 
Voyage de Chardin , tom . 
, and , for the Persian addition , Ali is the vicar of God ! Yet the precise number of the prophets is not an article of faith . 
For the apocryphal books of Adam , see Fabricius , Codex Pseudepigraphus V. T. p . 
But the book of Enoch is consecrated , in some measure , by the quotation of the apostle St . 
Jude and a long legendary fragment is alleged by Syncellus and Scaliger . 
who adopts , on this occasion , the learning and credulity of Selden . 
The articles of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , c . 
, in the Bibliotheque of D'Herbelot , are gayly bedecked with the fanciful legends of the Mahometans , who have built on the groundwork of Scripture and the Talmud . 
See the Gospel of St . 
It was published in Greek by Cotelier , and in Arabic by Sike , who thinks our present copy more recent than Mahomet . 
Yet his quotations agree with the original about the speech of Christ in his cradle , his living birds of clay , c . 
In the xiith century , the immaculate conception was condemned by St . 
See the Koran , c . 
that another man , a friend or an enemy , was crucified in the likeness of Jesus a fable which they had read in the Gospel of St . 
but neither Mahomet , nor his followers , are sufficiently versed in languages and criticism to give any weight or color to their suspicions . 
Yet the Arians and Nestorians could relate some stories , and the illiterate prophet might listen to the bold assertions of the Manichaeans . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
For the Koran , see D'Herbelot , p . 
Sale , Preliminary Discourse , p . 
Note Compare Von Hammer Geschichte der Assassinen p . 
has detected many Egyptian images , the elephantiasis , papyrus , Nile , crocodile , c . 
The language is ambiguously styled Arabico Hebraea . 
Note The age of the book of Job is still and probably will still be disputed . 
Rosenmuller thus states his own opinion Certe serioribus reipublicae temporibus assignandum esse librum , suadere videtur ad Chaldaismum vergens sermo . 
The poetry appears to me to belong to a much earlier period . 
M. Ali Bochari died A. H. . 
The votaries of Mahomet are more assured than himself of his miraculous gifts and their confidence and credulity increase as they are farther removed from the time and place of his spiritual exploits . 
His dream of a nocturnal journey is seriously described as a real and corporeal transaction . 
According to another legend , the apostle confounded in a national assembly the malicious challenge of the Koreish . 
The vulgar are amused with these marvellous tales but the gravest of the Mussulman doctors imitate the modesty of their master , and indulge a latitude of faith or interpretation . 
See , more remarkably , Koran , c . 
Arabum , the text of Abulpharagius , p . 
, the notes of Pocock , p . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
Voyages de Chardin , tom . 
has most laboriously collected and confuted the miracles and prophecies of Mahomet , which , according to some writers , amount to three thousand . 
who declares , from the zealous Al Jannabi , that to deny this journey , is to disbelieve the Koran . 
A slender basis for the aerial structure of tradition . 
on the faith , as it should seem , of the credulous Al Jannabi . 
the best interpreters are content with the simple sense of the Koran . 
and the silence of Abulfeda is worthy of a prince and a philosopher . 
Note Compare Hamaker Notes to Inc . 
M. Abulpharagius , in Specimen Hist . 
and his scepticism is justified in the notes of Pocock , p . 
, from the purest authorities . 
Yet every spot for the service of God is equally pure the Mahometans indifferently pray in their chamber or in the street . 
But the Mahometan religion is destitute of priesthood or sacrifice and the independent spirit of fanaticism looks down with contempt on the ministers and the slaves of superstition . 
Benevolence is the foundation of justice , since we are forbid to injure those whom we are bound to assist . 
A prophet may reveal the secrets of heaven and of futurity but in his moral precepts he can only repeat the lessons of our own hearts . 
describes what he had seen of the religion of the Turks . 
Such is Mahometanism beyond the precincts of the Holy City . 
at Mecca and the pilgrims complete their ceremonial with sacrifices , sometimes as numerous and costly as those of King Solomon . 
, and Forster's Mahometanism Unveiled , vol . 
reproaches the Christians with taking their priests and monks for their lords , besides God . 
, and Sale's note , which refers to the authority of Jallaloddin and Al Beidawi . 
D'Herbelot declares , that Mahomet condemned la vie religieuse and that the first swarms of fakirs , dervises , c . 
the one in the style of a legislator , the other in that of a fanatic . 
prompts him to enumerate the more liberal alms of the Catholics of Rome . 
The benevolence of London is still more extensive but I am afraid that much more is to be ascribed to the humanity , than to the religion , of the people . 
is an elaborate sketch of the infernal regions , as they were painted by the fancy of the Egyptians and Greeks , of the poets and philosophers of antiquity . 
relates an ingenious miracle , which satisfied the curiosity , and confirmed the faith , of Abraham . 
Such rational indifference is ill adapted to the character of a fanatic nor is it probable that a messenger from heaven should depreciate the value and necessity of his own revelation . 
After the greater part of mankind has been condemned for their opinions , the true believers only will be judged by their actions . 
With the two simple elements of darkness and fire , we create a sensation of pain , which may be aggravated to an infinite degree by the idea of endless duration . 
But the same idea operates with an opposite effect on the continuity of pleasure and too much of our present enjoyments is obtained from the relief , or the comparison , of evil . 
and that women's souls are immortal . 
A Beidawi , apud Sale . 
fuit sane pius , mitis . 
For the day of judgment , hell , paradise , c . 
The original ideas of the Magi are darkly and doubtfully explored by their apologist , Dr . 
In the article of Mahomet , Bayle has shown how indifferently wit and philosophy supply the absence of genuine information . 
God has commanded me to call you to his service . 
O prophet , I am the man whosoever rises against thee , I will dash out his teeth , tear out his eyes , break his legs , rip up his belly . 
O prophet , I will be thy vizier over them . 
Mahomet accepted his offer with transport , and Abu Taled was ironically exhorted to respect the superior dignity of his son . 
In a more serious tone , the father of Ali advised his nephew to relinquish his impracticable design . 
He persevered ten years in the exercise of his mission and the religion which has overspread the East and the West advanced with a slow and painful progress within the walls of Mecca . 
Before I enter on the history of the prophet , it is incumbent on me to produce my evidence . 
had accurately studied the language and character of their author . 
Two professed Lives of Mahomet have been composed by Dr . 
but the adverse wish of finding an impostor or a hero , has too often corrupted the learning of the doctor and the ingenuity of the count . 
is chiefly drawn from Novairi and Mirkond but the best and most authentic of our guides is M. Gagnier , a Frenchman by birth , and professor at Oxford of the Oriental tongues . 
the second , a credulous doctor , who visited Mecca A. D. . 
These are my general vouchers , and the inquisitive reader may follow the order of time , and the division of chapters . 
Yet I must observe that both Abulfeda and Al Jannabi are modern historians , and that they cannot appeal to any writers of the first century of the Hegira . 
Note A new Life , by Dr . 
has added some few traditions unknown in Europe . 
Weil's Arabic scholarship , which professes to correct many errors in Gagnier , in Maracci , and in M. von Hammer , I am no judge . 
the earliest and most important addition made to the traditionary Life of Mahomet . 
I am inclined to think Colonel Vans Kennedy's appreciation of the prophet's character , which may be overlooked in a criticism on Voltaire's Mahomet , the most just which I have ever read . 
Weil appears to me most valuable in its dissection and chronological view of the Koran . 
discloses the secret doubts of the wife of Mahomet . 
unfolds the sublime and patriotic views of Cadijah and the first disciples . 
I endeavor to preserve the Arabian idiom , as far as I can feel it myself in a Latin or French translation . 
The passages of the Koran in behalf of toleration are strong and numerous c . 
, with the notes of Maracci and Sale . 
This character alone may generally decide the doubts of the learned , whether a chapter was revealed at Mecca or Medina . 
The caverns of the tribe of Thamud , fit for men of the ordinary stature , were shown in the midway between Medina and Damascus . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
Part V. The people of Mecca were hardened in their unbelief by superstition and envy . 
Citizens and pilgrims , listen not to the tempter , hearken not to his impious novelties . 
Stand fast in the worship of Al Lata and Al Uzzah . 
But so loose was the policy of Mecca , that the leaders of the Koreish , instead of accusing a criminal , were compelled to employ the measures of persuasion or violence . 
They repeatedly addressed Abu Taleb in the style of reproach and menace . 
Thy nephew reviles our religion he accuses our wise forefathers of ignorance and folly silence him quickly , lest he kindle tumult and discord in the city . 
If he persevere , we shall draw our swords against him and his adherents , and thou wilt be responsible for the blood of thy fellow citizens . 
Abu Sophian , the chief of the branch of Ommiyah , succeeded to the principality of the republic of Mecca . 
His imprisonment might provoke the despair of his enthusiasm and the exile of an eloquent and popular fanatic would diffuse the mischief through the provinces of Arabia . 
An angel or a spy revealed their conspiracy and flight was the only resource of Mahomet . 
We are only two , said the trembling Abubeker . 
There is a third , replied the prophet it is God himself . 
In this eventful moment , the lance of an Arab might have changed the history of the world . 
who justifies and applauds this patriarchal inquisition . 
He quotes a particular history of the flight of Mahomet . 
Note Chronologists dispute between the th and th of July . 
Martin inclines to the th , ch . 
is vouched by Al Jannabi , and disdained by Abulfeda . 
The religion of the Koran might have perished in its cradle , had not Medina embraced with faith and reverence the holy outcasts of Mecca . 
The second was a political association , the first vital spark of the empire of the Saracens . 
Seventy three men and two women of Medina held a solemn conference with Mahomet , his kinsman , and his disciples and pledged themselves to each other by a mutual oath of fidelity . 
We are bound to each other by the ties of honor and interest . 
I am your friend , and the enemy of your foes . 
But if we are killed in your service , what , exclaimed the deputies of Medina , will be our reward ? Paradise , replied the prophet . 
He stretched it forth , and they reiterated the oath of allegiance and fidelity . 
The expedient was crowned with success the holy fraternity was respected in peace and war , and the two parties vied with each other in a generous emulation of courage and fidelity . 
From his establishment at Medina , Mahomet assumed the exercise of the regal and sacerdotal office and it was impious to appeal from a judge whose decrees were inspired by the divine wisdom . 
I have seen , said he , the Chosroes of Persia and the Caesar of Rome , but never did I behold a king among his subjects like Mahomet among his companions . 
The devout fervor of enthusiasm acts with more energy and truth than the cold and formal servility of courts . 
has shown that they were deceived by the word Al Nagjar , which signifies , in this place , not an obscure trade , but a noble tribe of Arabs . 
The same bloody precepts , so repeatedly inculcated in the Koran , are ascribed by the author to the Pentateuch and the Gospel . 
In the prosecution of religious war , Mahomet might appeal with more propriety to the example of Moses , of the Judges , and the kings of Israel . 
The military laws of the Hebrews are still more rigid than those of the Arabian legislator . 
The fair option of friendship , or submission , or battle , was proposed to the enemies of Mahomet . 
Yet their influence in every age has exalted the courage of the Saracens and Turks . 
has inveighed with more justice than discretion against the double dealing of the impostor . 
The xth and xxth chapters of Deuteronomy , with the practical comments of Joshua , David , c . 
, are read with more awe than satisfaction by the pious Christians of the present age . 
But the bishops , as well as the rabbis of former times , have beat the drum ecclesiastic with pleasure and success . 
The editor's opinions on this subject may be read in the History of the Jews vol . 
M Abulfeda , in Vit . 
but such was the poverty of his first disciples , that only two could appear on horseback in the field . 
At these words he placed himself , with Abubeker , on a throne or pulpit , and instantly demanded the succor of Gabriel and three thousand angels . 
The troops of Mahomet were skilfully posted on the declivity of the hill and their rear was guarded by a detachment of fifty archers . 
The intrepid Caled , wheeling his cavalry on their flank and rear , exclaimed , with a loud voice , that Mahomet was slain . 
They might applaud their superstition , and satiate their fury but the Mussulmans soon rallied in the field , and the Koreish wanted strength or courage to undertake the siege of Medina . 
The prudence of Mahomet declined a general engagement the valor of Ali was signalized in single combat and the war was protracted twenty days , till the final separation of the confederates . 
In the Stony province , the camels were numerous but the horse appears to have been less numerous than in the Happy or the Desert Arabia . 
Umbraculum , une loge de bois avec une porte . 
by Solium , Suggestus editior and the difference is of the utmost moment for the honor both of the interpreter and of the hero . 
I am sorry to observe the pride and acrimony with which Reiske chastises his fellow laborer . 
Saepi sic vertit , ut integrae paginae nequeant nisi una litura corrigi Arabice non satis callebat , et carebat judicio critico . 
J. J. Reiske , Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalisae Tabulas , p . 
, ad calcero Abulfedae Syriae Tabulae Lipsiae , , in to . 
not thou , but God , c . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
The Nadhirites were more guilty , since they conspired , in a friendly interview , to assassinate the prophet . 
After a resistance of twenty five days , they surrendered at discretion . 
They trusted to the intercession of their old allies of Medina they could not be ignorant that fanaticism obliterates the feelings of humanity . 
Their sheep and camels were inherited by the Mussulmans three hundred cuirasses , five hundred piles , a thousand lances , composed the most useful portion of the spoil . 
After the reduction of the castles , the town of Chaibar submitted to the yoke . 
Instead of indulging their passions and his own , the victorious exile forgave the guilt , and united the factions , of Mecca . 
The chiefs of the Koreish were prostrate at his feet . 
What mercy can you expect from the man whom you have wronged ? We confide in the generosity of our kinsman . 
This peaceful entrance into Mecca took place , according to the treaty the following year . 
After the conquest of Mecca , the Mahomet of Voltaire imagines and perpetuates the most horrid crimes . 
The maxim is neither charitable nor philosophic and some reverence is surely due to the fame of heroes and the religion of nations . 
I am informed that a Turkish ambassador at Paris was much scandalized at the representation of this tragedy . 
and this verbal controversy is of as much moment as our own about William the Conqueror . 
are more rigid than the Mussulmans themselves . 
Indifference for rites and opinions still marks the character of the Bedoweens and they might accept , as loosely as they hold , the doctrine of the Koran . 
in the art of sieges , supplied him with a train of battering rams and military engines , with a body of five hundred artificers . 
The siege of Tayef , division of the spoil , c . 
It is Al Jannabi who mentions the engines and engineers of the tribe of Daws . 
To your guard I intrust my life and fortunes . 
You are the companions of my exile , of my kingdom , of my paradise . 
He was followed by the deputies of Tayef , who dreaded the repetition of a siege . 
Grant us , O apostle of God ! a truce of three years , with the toleration of our ancient worship . 
Not a month , not an hour . 
Excuse us at least from the obligation of prayer . 
Without prayer religion is of no avail . 
They submitted in silence their temples were demolished , and the same sentence of destruction was executed on all the idols of Arabia . 
as the dates that fall from the maturity of a palm tree . 
The holy banner was intrusted to Zeid and such was the discipline or enthusiasm of the rising sect , that the noblest chiefs served without reluctance under the slave of the prophet . 
The three leaders were slain in the battle of Muta , the first military action , which tried the valor of the Moslems against a foreign enemy . 
Advance , cried Abdallah , who stepped into the vacant place , advance with confidence either victory or paradise is our own . 
You see , replied the apostle , a friend who is deploring the loss of his most faithful friend . 
He disdained to compel their service but on his return he admonished the most guilty , by an excommunication of fifty days . 
In the mid way , ten days' journey from Medina and Damascus , they reposed near the grove and fountain of Tabuc . 
To his Christian subjects , Mahomet readily granted the security of their persons , the freedom of their trade , the property of their goods , and the toleration of their worship . 
For the battle of Muta , and its consequences , see Abulfeda and Gagnier , . 
Hence , in the catalogue of the martyrs , he has been denominated Jauffer teyaur , the winged Jauffer . 
Price , Chronological Retrospect of Mohammedan History , vol . 
but we have the advantage of appealing to the original evidence of the Koran , with Sale's learned and rational notes . 
though he owns Mahomet's regard for the Christians , only mentions peace and tribute . 
shows the futility of their opinion and inclines to believe it spurious . 
but Abulpharagius was primate of the Jacobites . 
Till the age of sixty three years , the strength of Mahomet was equal to the temporal and spiritual fatigues of his mission . 
As soon as he was conscious of his danger , he edified his brethren by the humility of his virtue or penitence . 
If there be any man , said the apostle from the pulpit , whom I have unjustly scourged , I submit my own back to the lash of retaliation . 
Have I aspersed the reputation of a Mussulman ? let him proclaim my thoughts in the face of the congregation . 
Has any one been despoiled of his goods ? the little that I possess shall compensate the principal and the interest of the debt . 
Yes , replied a voice from the crowd , I am entitled to three drams of silver . 
Mahomet heard the complaint , satisfied the demand , and thanked his creditor for accusing him in this world rather than at the day of judgment . 
minutely directed the order of his funeral , and moderated the lamentations of his weeping friends , on whom he bestowed the benediction of peace . 
In a familiar discourse he had mentioned his special prerogative , that the angel of death was not allowed to take his soul till he had respectfully asked the permission of the prophet . 
among my fellow citizens on high and thus peaceably expired on a carpet spread upon the floor . 
An expedition for the conquest of Syria was stopped by this mournful event the army halted at the gates of Medina the chiefs were assembled round their dying master . 
The city , more especially the house , of the prophet , was a scene of clamorous sorrow of silent despair fanaticism alone could suggest a ray of hope and consolation . 
The tumult was appeased by the weight and moderation of Abubeker . 
I have little doubt that he saw and believed these visions , and visions they were . 
Without any philosophical inquiries , it may suffice , that , . 
The prophet was not buried at Mecca and , . 
that it was on Monday the th June , . 
This is a mistake for the th June of that year was a Saturday , not a Monday the th June , therefore , was a Monday . 
It is easy to discover that the lunar year , in this calculation has been confounded with the solar . 
The most private and interesting circumstances were originally received from Ayesha , Ali , the sons of Abbas , c . 
and as they dwelt at Medina , and survived the prophet many years , they might repeat the pious tale to a second or third generation of pilgrims . 
The unity of God is an idea most congenial to nature and reason and a slight conversation with the Jews and Christians would teach him to despise and detest the idolatry of Mecca . 
It was the duty of a man and a citizen to impart the doctrine of salvation , to rescue his country from the dominion of sin and error . 
at the enthusiasm of his youth , and the credulity of his proselytes . 
If he retained any vestige of his native innocence , the sins of Mahomet may be allowed as an evidence of his sincerity . 
The Christians , rashly enough , have assigned to Mahomet a tame pigeon , that seemed to descend from heaven and whisper in his ear . 
his Arabic translator , the learned Pocock , inquired of him the names of his authors and Grotius confessed , that it is unknown to the Mahometans themselves . 
are beyond the reach of human foresight and the divine inspiration of the philosopher is clearly taught in the Memorabilia of Xenophon . 
Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
Disdaining the penance and merit of a hermit , he observed , without effort or vanity , the abstemious diet of an Arab and a soldier . 
On solemn occasions he feasted his companions with rustic and hospitable plenty but in his domestic life , many weeks would elapse without a tire being kindled on the hearth of the prophet . 
The heat of the climate inflames the blood of the Arabs and their libidinous complexion has been noticed by the writers of antiquity . 
Such were the calm and rational precepts of the legislator but in his private conduct , Mahomet indulged the appetites of a man , and abused the claims of a prophet . 
What is singular enough , they were all widows , excepting only Ayesha , the daughter of Abubeker . 
when she was only nine years of age . 
Her behavior had been ambiguous and indiscreet in a nocturnal march she was accidentally left behind and in the morning Ayesha returned to the camp with a man . 
In his adventures with Zeineb , the wife of Zeid , and with Mary , an Egyptian captive , the amorous prophet forgot the interest of his reputation . 
The servile , or grateful , freedman understood the hint , and yielded without hesitation to the love of his benefactor . 
In a solitary retreat of thirty days , he labored , alone with Mary , to fulfil the commands of the angel . 
A more serious and decent excuse may be drawn from his fidelity to Cadijah . 
The most original evidence of the three last transactions is contained in the xxivth , xxxiiid , and lxvith chapters of the Koran , with Sale's Commentary . 
have maliciously exaggerated the frailties of Mahomet . 
has recapitulated the laws of marriage , divorce , c . 
and the curious reader of Selden's Uror Hebraica will recognize many Jewish ordinances . 
Sibi robur ad generationem , quantum triginta viri habent , inesse jacteret ita ut unica hora posset undecim foeminis satisfacere , ut ex Arabum libris refert Stus . 
The hopes of Mahomet were fatally disappointed . 
The virgin Ayesha , and his ten widows of mature age and approved fertility , were barren in his potent embraces . 
The four sons of Cadijah died in their infancy . 
Mary , his Egyptian concubine , was endeared to him by the birth of Ibrahim . 
Yet we should weigh with caution the traditions of the hostile sects a stream which becomes still more muddy as it flows farther from the source . 
The birth , the alliance , the character of Ali , which exalted him above the rest of his countrymen , might justify his claim to the vacant throne of Arabia . 
The son of Abu Taleb was , in his own right , the chief of the family of Hashem , and the hereditary prince or guardian of the city and temple of Mecca . 
has given an English version of sentences , which he ascribes , with some hesitation , to Ali , the son of Abu Taleb . 
His preface is colored by the enthusiasm of a translator yet these sentences delineate a characteristic , though dark , picture of human life . 
Gibbon wrote chiefly from the Arabic or Sunnite account of these transactions , the only sources accessible at the time when he composed his History . 
Major Price , writing from Persian authorities , affords us the advantage of comparing throughout what may be fairly considered the Shiite Version . 
The glory of Ali is the constant burden of their strain . 
His disinterested magnanimity , on each separate occasion , declined the sceptre , and gave the noble example of obedience to the appointed caliph . 
He is described , in retirement , on the throne , and in the field of battle , as transcendently pious , magnanimous , valiant , and humane . 
He lost his empire through his excess of virtue and love for the faithful his life through his confidence in God , and submission to the decrees of fate . 
Compare the curious account of this apathy in Price , chapter ii . 
M. The silence and death of the prophet restored the liberty of the people and his companions convened an assembly to deliberate on the choice of his successor . 
After a reign of two years , the aged caliph was summoned by the angel of death . 
In his testament , with the tacit approbation of his companions , he bequeathed the sceptre to the firm and intrepid virtue of Omar . 
I have no occasion , said the modest candidate , for the place . 
On this occasion , Ali was again blamed by his friends for submitting his right to the judgment of men , for recognizing their jurisdiction by accepting a place among the six electors . 
The manners of the Arabians retained their primitive simplicity , and the son of Abu Taleb despised the pomp and vanity of this world . 
The companions of the prophet , and the chiefs of the tribes , saluted their new sovereign , and gave him their right hands as a sign of fealty and allegiance . 
Abubeker , the father of the virgin Ayesha . 
from an Arabian Ms. , represents Ayesha as adverse to the substitution of her father in the place of the apostle . 
Particularly by his friend and cousin Abdallah , the son of Abbas , who died A. D. , with the title of grand doctor of the Moslems . 
O princeps fidelium , absque controversia tu quidem vere fortis es , at inops boni consilii , et rerum gerendarum parum callens . 
may signify not two actual counsellors , but his two predecessors , Abubeker and Omar . 
The mischiefs that flow from the contests of ambition are usually confined to the times and countries in which they have been agitated . 
The Sonnites , who are supported by the general consent and orthodox tradition of the Mussulmans , entertain a more impartial , or at least a more decent , opinion . 
They respect the memory of Abubeker , Omar , Othman , and Ali , the holy and legitimate successors of the prophet . 
But they assign the last and most humble place to the husband of Fatima , in the persuasion that the order of succession was determined by the decrees of sanctity . 
But the public virtues of Abubeker and Omar , the prudence of the first , the severity of the second , maintained the peace and prosperity of their reigns . 
The feeble temper and declining age of Othman were incapable of sustaining the weight of conquest and empire . 
A tumultuous anarchy of five days was appeased by the inauguration of Ali his refusal would have provoked a general massacre . 
He has never been accused of prompting the assassin of Omar though Persia indiscreetly celebrates the festival of that holy martyr . 
Yet it is doubtful whether the father of Hassan was strenuous and sincere in his opposition to the rebels and it is certain that he enjoyed the benefit of their crime . 
The temptation was indeed of such magnitude as might stagger and corrupt the most obdurate virtue . 
The schism of the Persians is explained by all our travellers of the last century , especially in the iid and ivth volumes of their master , Chardin . 
Omar is the name of the devil his murderer is a saint . 
M. Chapter L Description Of Arabia And Its Inhabitants . 
The mask of patriotism is allowed to cover the most glaring inconsistencies and the enemies , perhaps the assassins , of Othman now demanded vengeance for his blood . 
! ! Their leaders , Telha and Zobeir , were slain in the first battle that stained with civil blood the arms of the Moslems . 
After passing through the ranks to animate the troops , Ayesha had chosen her post amidst the dangers of the field . 
From the passage of Thapsacus , the plain of Siffin extends along the western bank of the Euphrates . 
On this spacious and level theatre , the two competitors waged a desultory war of one hundred and ten days . 
In this sanguinary contest the lawful caliph displayed a superior character of valor and humanity . 
He generously proposed to save the blood of the Moslems by a single combat but his trembling rival declined the challenge as a sentence of inevitable death . 
The ranks of the Syrians were broken by the charge of a hero who was mounted on a piebald horse , and wielded with irresistible force his ponderous and two edged sword . 
The prince of Damascus already meditated his flight but the certain victory was snatched from the grasp of Ali by the disobedience and enthusiasm of his troops . 
Each of the assassins chose his victim , poisoned his dagger , devoted his life , and secretly repaired to the scene of action . 
He expired in the sixty third year of his age , and mercifully recommended to his children , that they would despatch the murderer by a single stroke . 
Ali had determined to supersede all the lieutenants in the different provinces . 
Compare , on the conduct of Telha and Zobeir , p . 
M. ! See the very curious circumstances which took place before and during her flight . 
M. ! ! The reluctance of Ali to shed the blood of true believers is strikingly described by Major Price's Persian historians . 
M. See the singular adventures of Zobeir . 
He was murdered after having abandoned the army of the insurgents . 
Telha was about to do the same , when his leg was pierced with an arrow by one of his own party The wound was mortal . 
M She was escorted by a guard of females disguised as soldiers . 
When she discovered this , Ayesha was as much gratified by the delicacy of the arrangement , as she had been offended by the familiar approach of so many men . 
to be the Campus Barbaricus of Procopius . 
! ! ! The Shiite authors have preserved a noble instance of Ali's magnanimity . 
The superior generalship of Moawiyah had cut off the army of Ali from the Euphrates his soldiers were perishing from want of water . 
After some debate , Moawiyah determined to avail himself of the advantage of his situation , and to reject the demand of Ali . 
Moawiyah was reduced to make the same supplication to Ali . 
The generous caliph instantly complied and both armies , with their cattle enjoyed free and unmolested access to the river . 
, M. His son Hassan was recognized as caliph in Arabia and Irak but voluntarily abdicated the throne , after six or seven months , in favor of Moawiyah St . 
M. Abulfeda , a moderate Sonnite , relates the different opinions concerning the burial of Ali , but adopts the sepulchre of Cufa , hodie fama numeroque religiose frequentantium celebratum . 
have enriched the tomb of Ali with the spoils of the people . 
The dome is copper , with a bright and massy gilding , which glitters to the sun at the distance of many a mile . 
Meshed Hosein , larger and more populous , is at the distance of thirty miles . 
The persecutors of Mahomet usurped the inheritance of his children and the champions of idolatry became the supreme heads of his religion and empire . 
The sacred duty of pursuing the assassins of Othman was the engine and pretence of his ambition . 
The aspiring wishes of the caliph were finally crowned by the important change of an elective to an hereditary kingdom . 
Evulgato imperii arcano posse imperatorem alni quam Romae fieri . 
A familiar story is related of the benevolence of one of the sons of Ali . 
Against the advice of his wisest friends , he resolved to trust his person and family in the hands of a perfidious people . 
He checked the lamentations of his sister Fatima , who deplored the impending ruin of his house . 
Our trust , said Hosein , is in God alone . 
All things , both in heaven and earth , must perish and return to their Creator . 
My brother , my father , my mother , were better than me , and every Mussulman has an example in the prophet . 
The enemy advanced with reluctance , and one of their chiefs deserted , with thirty followers , to claim the partnership of inevitable death . 
Alone , weary , and wounded , he seated himself at the door of his tent . 
As he tasted a drop of water , he was pierced in the mouth with a dart and his son and nephew , two beautiful youths , were killed in his arms . 
He lifted his hands to heaven they were full of blood and he uttered a funeral prayer for the living and the dead . 
The remorseless Shamer , a name detested by the faithful , reproached their cowardice and the grandson of Mahomet was slain with three and thirty strokes of lances and swords . 
On the annual festival of his martyrdom , in the devout pilgrimage to his sepulchre , his Persian votaries abandon their souls to the religious frenzy of sorrow and indignation . 
It is long and minute but the pathetic , almost always , consists in the detail of little circumstances . 
The account of Hosein's death , in the Persian Tarikh Tebry , is much longer in some circumstances , more pathetic , than that of Ockley , followed by Gibbon . 
His family , after his defenders were all slain , perished in succession before his eyes . 
They had been cut off from the water , and suffered all the agonies of thirst . 
Ally was slain and cut to pieces in his sight this wrung from him his first and only cry then it was that his sister Zeyneb rushed from the tent . 
The rest , including his nephew , fell in succession . 
Hosein's horse was wounded he fell to the ground . 
The child was , at his desire , placed on his bosom as he wept over it , it was transfixed by an arrow . 
Hosein dragged himself to the Euphrates as he slaked his burning thirst , his mouth was pierced by an arrow he drank his own blood . 
Wounded in four and thirty places , he still gallantly resisted . 
A soldier named Zeraiah gave the fatal wound his head was cut off by Ziliousheng . 
is , perhaps , the only European traveller who has dared to visit Meshed Ali and Meshed Hosein . 
The two sepulchres are in the hands of the Turks , who tolerate and tax the devotion of the Persian heretics . 
The festival of the death of Hosein is amply described by Sir John Chardin , a traveller whom I have often praised . 
But Yezid preferred the councils of mercy and the mourning family was honorably dismissed to mingle their tears with their kindred at Medina . 
The twelfth and last of the Imams , conspicuous by the title of Mahadi , or the Guide , surpassed the solitude and sanctity of his predecessors . 
The fame and merit of Mahomet would ennoble a plebeian race , and the ancient blood of the Koreish transcends the recent majesty of the kings of the earth . 
The general article of Imam , in D'Herbelot's Bibliotheque , will indicate the succession and the lives of the twelve are given under their respective names . 
In the royal stable of Ispahan , two horses were always kept saddled , one for the Mahadi himself , the other for his lieutenant , Jesus the son of Mary . 
The enemies of the Fatimites disgraced them by a Jewish origin . 
that they were owned by many , qui absque controversia genuini sunt Alidarum , homines propaginum suae gentis exacte callentes . 
cum in Aegypto sit Chalifa de gente Alii , quocum ego communem habeo patrem et vindicem . 
But I cannot trace the intermediate degrees in any genuine or fabulous pedigree . 
It is much to be lamented , that the Danish traveller was unable to purchase the chronicles of Arabia . 
The talents of Mahomet are entitled to our applause but his success has , perhaps , too strongly attracted our admiration . 
If the Christian apostles , St . 
But the Turkish dome of St . 
Sophia , with an increase of splendor and size , represents the humble tabernacle erected at Medina by the hands of Mahomet . 
The Mahometans have uniformly withstood the temptation of reducing the object of their faith and devotion to a level with the senses and imagination of man . 
I believe in one God , and Mahomet the apostle of God , is the simple and invariable profession of Islam . 
The cause of this important difference may be found in the separation or union of the regal and sacerdotal characters . 
His beneficial or pernicious influence on the public happiness is the last consideration in the character of Mahomet . 
The most bitter or most bigoted of his Christian or Jewish foes will surely allow that he assumed a false commission to inculcate a salutary doctrine , less perfect only than their own . 
He piously supposed , as the basis of his religion , the truth and sanctity of their prior revolutions , the virtues and miracles of their founders . 
The hostile tribes were united in faith and obedience , and the valor which had been idly spent in domestic quarrels was vigorously directed against a foreign enemy . 
Had the impulse been less powerful , Arabia , free at home and formidable abroad , might have flourished under a succession of her native monarchs . 
Her sovereignty was lost by the extent and rapidity of conquest . 
The colonies of the nation were scattered over the East and West , and their blood was mingled with the blood of their converts and captives . 
have compiled , in folio pages , the life of Mahomet and the annals of the caliphs . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
Part I. The Conquest Of Persia , Syria , Egypt , Africa , And Spain , By The Arabs Or Saracens . 
Empire Of The Caliphs , Or Successors Of Mahomet . 
State Of The Christians , c . 
The increasing myriads , who acknowledged Mahomet as their king and prophet , had been compelled by his arms , or allured by his prosperity . 
The polytheists were confounded by the simple idea of a solitary and invisible God the pride of the Christians and Jews disdained the yoke of a mortal and contemporary legislator . 
The example of Mahomet had excited a spirit of fanaticism or imposture , and several of his rivals presumed to imitate the conduct , and defy the authority , of the living prophet . 
had assumed the character of a prophet , and the tribe of Hanifa listened to his voice . 
A female prophetess was attracted by his reputation the decencies of words and actions were spurned by these favorites of Heaven and they employed several days in mystic and amorous converse . 
An obscure sentence of his Koran , or book , is yet extant and in the pride of his mission , Moseilama condescended to offer a partition of the earth . 
See the description of the city and country of Al Yamanah , in Abulfeda , Descript . 
This extraordinary woman was a Christian she was at the head of a numerous and flourishing sect Moseilama professed to recognize her inspiration . 
In a personal interview he proposed their marriage and the union of their sects . 
Gibbon , with that propensity too common , especially in his later volumes , has selected only the grosser part of this singular adventure . 
M. The first salutation may be transcribed , but cannot be translated . 
It was thus that Moseilama said or sung Surge tandem itaque strenue permolenda nam stratus tibi thorus est . 
Aut in propatulo tentorio si velis , aut in abditiore cubiculo si malis Aut supinam te humi exporrectam fustigabo , si velis , aut si malis manibus pedibusque nixam . 
gemino triente aut si malis totus veniam . 
Imo , totus venito , O Apostole Dei , clamabat foemina . 
Id ipsum , dicebat Moseilama , mihi quoque suggessit Deus . 
Compare a long account of this battle in Price , p . 
But they ascended the throne in a venerable or mature age and esteemed the domestic cares of religion and justice the most important duties of a sovereign . 
The austere and frugal measure of their lives was the effect of virtue or habit , and the pride of their simplicity insulted the vain magnificence of the kings of the earth . 
Oeeconomy is the source of liberality , and the increase of the revenue enabled Omar to establish a just and perpetual reward for the past and present services of the faithful . 
Careless of his own emolument , he assigned to Abbas , the uncle of the prophet , the first and most ample allowance of twenty five thousand drachms or pieces of silver . 
In the sloth and vanity of the palace of Damascus , the succeeding princes of the house of Ommiyah were alike destitute of the qualifications of statesmen and of saints . 
A large deduction must be allowed for the weakness of their enemies . 
! In Arabic , successors . 
V. Hammer Geschichte der Assas . 
M. His reign in Eutychius , tom . 
His reign in Eutychius , p . 
His reign in Eutychius , p . 
His reign in Eutychius , p . 
His reign in Eutychius , p . 
Their reigns in Eutychius , tom . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
, and the particular articles of the Ommiades . 
These timid maxims of policy were disdained by the magnanimity or enthusiasm of the Arabian caliphs . 
Africa and , V. Spain . 
Yet I must excuse my own defects by a just complaint of the blindness and insufficiency of my guides . 
The Greeks , so loquacious in controversy , have not been anxious to celebrate the triumphs of their enemies . 
After a century of ignorance , the first annals of the Mussulmans were collected in a great measure from the voice of tradition . 
Among the numerous productions of Arabic and Persian literature , our interpreters have selected the imperfect sketches of a more recent age . 
Their contemporary , Photius , does not seem to be more opulent . 
Some additions may be gleaned from the more recent histories of Cedrenus and Zonaras of the xiith century . 
At the request of his friends , he reduced a work of , sheets to a more reasonable size . 
But his Arabic original is known only by the Persian and Turkish versions . 
have fallen to the ground . 
The particular historians and geographers will be occasionally introduced . 
The four following titles represent the Annals which have guided me in this general narrative . 
Annales Eutychii , Patriarchoe Alexandrini , ab Edwardo Pocockio , Oxon . 
A pompous edition of an indifferent author , translated by Pocock to gratify the Presbyterian prejudices of his friend Selden . 
Historia Saracenica Georgii Elmacini , opera et studio Thomae Erpenii , in to . 
He is said to have hastily translated a corrupt Ms. , and his version is often deficient in style and sense . 
Historia compendiosa Dynastiarum a Gregorio Abulpharagio , interprete Edwardo Pocockio , in to . 
More useful for the literary than the civil history of the East . 
Abulfedoe Annales Moslemici ad Ann . 
The best of our chronicles , both for the original and version , yet how far below the name of Abulfeda ! We know that he wrote at Hamah in the xivth century . 
The three former were Christians of the xth , xiith , and xiiith centuries the two first , natives of Egypt a Melchite patriarch , and a Jacobite scribe . 
has characterized , with truth and knowledge , the two sorts of Arabian historians the dry annalist , and the tumid and flowery orator . 
Bibliotheque Orientale , par M. D'Herbelot , in folio , Paris , . 
His work is an agreeable miscellany , which must gratify every taste but I never can digest the alphabetical order and I find him more satisfactory in the Persian than the Arabic history . 
The recent supplement from the papers of Mm . 
is of a different cast , a medley of tales , proverbs , and Chinese antiquities . 
of the dynasty of the Almondars . 
the French geographer is equally at home in every age and every climate of the world . 
Eichhorn and Silvestre de Sacy have written on the obscure history of the Mondars . 
this characteristic mode of expression . 
! Compare throughout Malcolm , vol . 
M. The indignation and fears of the Persians suspended for a moment their intestine divisions . 
The periods of the battle of Cadesia were distinguished by their peculiar appellations . 
The first , from the well timed appearance of six thousand of the Syrian brethren , was denominated the day of succor . 
The day of concussion might express the disorder of one , or perhaps of both , of the contending armies . 
The third , a nocturnal tumult , received the whimsical name of the night of barking , from the discordant clamors , which were compared to the inarticulate sounds of the fiercest animals . 
The morning of the succeeding day determined the fate of Persia and a seasonable whirlwind drove a cloud of dust against the faces of the unbelievers . 
The Saracens confess a loss of seven thousand five hundred men ! and the battle of Cadesia is justly described by the epithets of obstinate and atrocious . 
As the distance of fourscore miles from the Gulf , the Euphrates and Tigris unite in a broad and direct current , which is aptly styled the river of the Arabs . 
A cycle of years , the end of which an intercalary month of days supplied the use of our Bissextile , and restored the integrity of the solar year . 
and his accession cannot be postponed beyond the end of the first year . 
His predecessors could not therefore resist the arms of the caliph Omar and these unquestionable dates overthrow the thoughtless chronology of Abulpharagius . 
of the Saracens , vol . 
has a strange account of an embassy to Yezdegerd . 
is in margine solitudinis , leagues from Bagdad , and two stations from Cufa . 
reckons leagues , and observes , that the place is supplied with dates and water . 
The day of cormorants , or according to another reading the day of reinforcements . 
It was the night which was called the night of snarling . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
The reader may satisfy himself on the subject of Bassora by consulting the following writers Geograph , Nubiens . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
D'Anville , l'Euphrate et le Tigre , p . 
Philosophique des deux Indes , tom . 
Voyages di Pietro della Valle , tom . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
the estimate of fancy or numbers and another historian defines the untold and almost infinite mass , by the fabulous computation of three thousands of thousands of thousands of pieces of gold . 
Some minute though curious facts represent the contrast of riches and ignorance . 
From the remote islands of the Indian Ocean a large provision of camphire had been imported , which is employed with a mixture of wax to illuminate the palaces of the East . 
! The Arabian general persuaded his soldiers to relinquish their claim , in the reasonable hope that the eyes of the caliph would be delighted with the splendid workmanship of nature and industry . 
The sack of Ctesiphon was followed by its desertion and gradual decay . 
The Saracens disliked the air and situation of the place , and Omar was advised by his general to remove the seat of government to the western side of the Euphrates . 
You conquered the Persian king , and scattered his forces , till you had taken possession of his inheritance . 
This mighty conquest was achieved by the battles of Jalula and Nehavend . 
Mente vix potest numerove comprehendi quanta spolia nostris cesserint . 
Yet I still suspect , that the extravagant numbers of Elmacin may be the error , not of the text , but of the version . 
The best translators from the Greek , for instance , I find to be very poor arithmeticians . 
translates in the same manner three thousand million of ducats . 
See Forster's Mahometanism Unveiled , vol . 
! Compare Price , p . 
M. See Gagnier , Vie de Mahomet , tom . 
I may credit the fact , without believing the prophecy . 
Note The best modern account is that of Claudius Rich Esq . 
and the second volume of Ockley's History , particularly p . 
See the article of Nehavend , in D'Herbelot , p . 
, and Voyages en Turquie et en Perse , par Otter , tom . 
M. The geography of Persia is darkly delineated by the Greeks and Latins but the most illustrious of her cities appear to be more ancient than the invasion of the Arabs . 
From the palace of Madayn their Eastern progress was not less rapid or extensive . 
They advanced along the Tigris and the Gulf penetrated through the passes of the mountains into the valley of Estachar or Persepolis , and profaned the last sanctuary of the Magian empire . 
In the days of our common ignorance , we fought with the weapons of the flesh , and my nation was superior . 
God was then neuter since he has espoused your quarrel , you have subverted our kingdom and religion . 
Oppressed by this painful dialogue , the Persian complained of intolerable thirst , but discovered some apprehension lest he should be killed whilst he was drinking a cup of water . 
Be of good courage , said the caliph your life is safe till you have drunk this water the crafty satrap accepted the assurance , and instantly dashed the vase against the ground . 
It is in such a style of ignorance and wonder that the Athenian orator describes the Arctic conquests of Alexander , who never advanced beyond the shores of the Caspian . 
Aeschines contra Ctesiphontem , tom . 
This memorable cause was pleaded at Athens , Olymp . 
about a year after the battle of Arbela and Alexander , in the pursuit of Darius , was marching towards Hyrcania and Bactriana . 
We are indebted for this curious particular to the Dynasties of Abulpharagius , p . 
and still more needless to copy the drawings and descriptions of Sir John Chardin , or Corneillo le Bruyn . 
The fortunate Moslems , without unsheathing their swords , were the spectators of his ruin and death . 
The grandson of Chosroes was betrayed by his servant , insulted by the seditious inhabitants of Merou , and oppressed , defeated , and pursued by his Barbarian allies . 
He reached the banks of a river , and offered his rings and bracelets for an instant passage in a miller's boat . 
In this moment of hesitation and delay , the last of the Sassanian kings was overtaken and slaughtered by the Turkish cavalry , in the nineteenth year of his unhappy reign . 
! His grandson inherited the regal name but after a faint and fruitless enterprise , he returned to China , and ended his days in the palace of Sigan . 
and the Turkish Geographer , a MS . 
The territory of Fergana is described by Abulfeda , p . 
and for the geography of the borders , tom . 
, in the iiid part of the Relations Curieuses of Thevenot . 
The end of Yezdegerd , was not only unfortunate but obscure . 
The account of Yezdegerd's death in the Habeib 'usseyr and Rouzut uzzuffa is much more probable . 
On the demand of the few dhirems , he offered to the miller his sword , and royal girdle , of inesturable value . 
This awoke the cupidity of the miller , who murdered him , and threw the body into the stream . 
M. ! Firouz died leaving a son called Ni ni cha by the Chinese , probably Narses . 
Yezdegerd had two sons , Firouz and Bahram St . 
M. The two daughters of Yezdegerd married Hassan , the son of Ali , and Mohammed , the son of Abubeker and the first of these was the father of a numerous progeny . 
After the fall of the Persian kingdom , the River Oxus divided the territories of the Saracens and of the Turks . 
Before the invasion of the Saracens , Carizme , Bochara , and Samarcand were rich and populous under the yoke of the shepherds of the north . 
These cities were surrounded with a double wall and the exterior fortification , of a larger circumference , enclosed the fields and gardens of the adjacent district . 
and entitled Descriptio Chorasmiae et Mawaralnahroe , id est , regionum extra fluvium , Oxum , p . 
and some modern Orientalists , but they are mistaken in ascribing it to the writers of antiquity . 
The manuscripts Arabian and Persian writers in the royal library contain very circumstantial details on the contest between the Persians and Arabians . 
Martin declined this addition to the work of Le Beau , as extending to too great a length . 
M. A curious description of Samarcand is inserted in the Bibliotheca Arabico Hispana , tom . 
relates , from credible testimony , that paper was first imported from China to Samarcand , A. H. , and invented , or rather introduced , at Mecca , A. H. . 
The Escurial library contains paper Mss. as old as the ivth or vth century of the Hegira . 
No sooner had Abubeker restored the unity of faith and government , than he despatched a circular letter to the Arabian tribes . 
In the name of the most merciful God , to the rest of the true believers . 
Health and happiness , and the mercy and blessing of God , be upon you . 
I praise the most high God , and I pray for his prophet Mahomet . 
This is to acquaint you , that I intend to send the true believers into Syria to take it out of the hands of the infidels . 
And I would have you know , that the fighting for religion is an act of obedience to God . 
His instructions to the chiefs of the Syrian army were inspired by the warlike fanaticism which advances to seize , and affects to despise , the objects of earthly ambition . 
Avoid injustice and oppression consult with your brethren , and study to preserve the love and confidence of your troops . 
When you fight the battles of the Lord , acquit yourselves like men , without turning your backs but let not your victory be stained with the blood of women or children . 
Destroy no palm trees , nor burn any fields of corn . 
Cut down no fruit trees , nor do any mischief to cattle , only such as you kill to eat . 
When you make any covenant or article , stand to it , and be as good as your word . 
Above the meagre and recent chronicles of the Arabians , Al Wakidi has the double merit of antiquity and copiousness . 
His tales and traditions afford an artless picture of the men and the times . 
Yet his narrative is too often defective , trifling , and improbable . 
de Expugnatione Memphidis , c . 
M. The instructions , c . 
, of the Syrian war are described by Al Wakidi and Ockley , tom . 
In the sequel it is necessary to contract , and needless to quote , their circumstantial narrative . 
My obligations to others shall be noticed . 
represents the Bedoweens as the implacable enemies of the Christian monks . 
For my own part , I am more inclined to suspect the avarice of the Arabian robbers , and the prejudices of the German philosopher . 
give very amusing accounts of the terms on which the monks of Mount Sinai live with the neighboring Bedoweens . 
Such , probably , was their relative state in older times , wherever the Arab retained his Bedoween habits . 
M. Even in the seventh century , the monks were generally laymen 'hey wore their hair long and dishevelled , and shaved their heads when they were ordained priests . 
The circular tonsure was sacred and mysterious it was the crown of thorns but it was likewise a royal diadem , and every priest was a king , c . 
M. Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
Another expedition of the conquerors of Damascus will equally display their avidity and their contempt for the riches of the present world . 
Abdallah , the son of Jaafar , a glorious and holy martyr , undertook , with a banner of five hundred horse , the pious and profitable commission of despoiling the infidels . 
Let every man , according to his inclination , advance or retire . 
Not a Mussulman deserted his standard . 
Lead the way , said Abdallah to his Christian guide , and you shall see what the companions of the prophet can perform . 
The Christians were broken by his attack , and slaughtered in their flight , as far as the river of Tripoli . 
The hermit , after a short and angry controversy with Caled , declined the crown of martyrdom , and was left alive in the solitary scene of blood and devastation . 
who dares not insert this figurative expression in the text , though he observes in a marginal note , that the Arabians often borrow their similes from that useful and familiar animal . 
The reindeer may be equally famous in the songs of the Laplanders . 
We hear the tecbir so the Arabs call Their shout of onset , when with loud appeal They challenge heaven , as if demanding conquest . 
of the second conjugation , from Kabbara , which signifies saying Alla Acbar , God is most mighty ! Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
Part V. Syria , one of the countries that have been improved by the most early cultivation , is not unworthy of the preference . 
A plain , of ten days' journey , from Damascus to Aleppo and Antioch , is watered , on the western side , by the winding course of the Orontes . 
was applied to a long and fruitful valley , which is confined in the same direction , by the two ridges of snowy mountains . 
From the conquest of Damascus the Saracens proceeded to Heliopolis and Emesa but I shall decline the repetition of the sallies and combats which have been already shown on a larger scale . 
In the prosecution of the war , their policy was not less effectual than their sword . 
The conquest of the plain and valley of Syria was achieved in less than two years . 
With these words , charging the Christians , he made havoc wherever he went , till , observed at length by the governor of Hems , he was struck through with a javelin . 
In the Geography of Abulfeda , the description of Syria , his native country , is the most interesting and authentic portion . 
is a work of superior learning and dignity but the author too often confounds what he had seen and what he had read . 
The praises of Dionysius are just and lively . 
Nam diffusa solo latus explicat ac subit auras Turribus in coelum nitentibus incola claris Cor studiis acuit . 
Denique flammicomo devoti pectora soli Vitam agitant . 
Et tamen his certant celsi fastigia templi . 
ascribed them to the fancy , rather than the Mss. , of Avienus . 
, than with the pompous folio of Dr . 
but every preceding account is eclipsed by the magnificent description and drawings of Mm . 
Dawkins and Wood , who have transported into England the ruins of Pamyra and Baalbec . 
The Orientals explain the prodigy by a never failing expedient . 
The edifices of Baalbec were constructed by the fairies or the genii , Hist . 
de Timour Bec , tom . 
The banks of this obscure stream were illustrated by a long and bloody encounter . 
On this momentous occasion , the public voice , and the modesty of Abu Obeidah , restored the command to the most deserving of the Moslems . 
The exhortation of the generals was brief and forcible Paradise is before you , the devil and hell fire in your rear . 
Yet such was the weight of the Roman cavalry , that the right wing of the Arabs was broken and separated from the main body . 
Thrice did they retreat in disorder , and thrice were they driven back to the charge by the reproaches and blows of the women . 
The veterans of the Syrian war acknowledged that it was the hardest and most doubtful of the days which they had seen . 
Manuel , the Roman general , was either killed at Damascus , or took refuge in the monastery of Mount Sinai . 
An exile in the Byzantine court , Jabalah lamented the manners of Arabia , and his unlucky preference of the Christian cause . 
I have read somewhere in Tacitus , or Grotius , Subjectos habent tanquam suos , viles tanquam alienos . 
Some Greek officers ravished the wife , and murdered the child , of their Syrian landlord and Manuel smiled at his undutiful complaint . 
This learned professor was equal to the task of describing the Holy Land , since he was alike conversant with Greek and Latin , with Hebrew and Arabian literature . 
The Arabs , and even Abulfeda himself , do not seem to recognize the scene of their victory . 
The army of the Romans is swoller to , men of which , perished . 
M. These women were of the tribe of the Hamyarites , who derived their origin from the ancient Amalekites . 
As I cannot doubt his veracity , nor believe his computation , I must suspect that the Arabic historians indulge themselves in the practice of comparing speeches and letters for their heroes . 
does he mean Aiznadin ? His account is brief and obscure , but he accuses the numbers of the enemy , the adverse wind , and the cloud of dust . 
They consulted the caliph whether they should march to Caesarea or Jerusalem and the advice of Ali determined the immediate siege of the latter . 
He addressed the customary summons to the chief commanders and people of Aelia . 
has passed from the Romans to the Arabs . 
The epithet of Al Cods , the Holy , is used as the proper name of Jerusalem . 
Health and happiness to every one that follows the right way ! We require of you to testify that there is but one God , and that Mahomet is his apostle . 
If you refuse this , consent to pay tribute , and be under us forthwith . 
Otherwise I shall bring men against you who love death better than you do the drinking of wine or eating hog's flesh . 
Nor will I ever stir from you , if it please God , till I have destroyed those that fight for you , and made slaves of your children . 
The Christians yielded at length to the perseverance of the besiegers . 
The patriarch Sophronius appeared on the walls , and by the voice of an interpreter demanded a conference . 
When he came within sight of Jerusalem , the caliph cried with a loud voice , God is victorious . 
O Lord , give us an easy conquest ! and , pitching his tent of coarse hair , calmly seated himself on the ground . 
After signing the capitulation , he entered the city without fear or precaution and courteously discoursed with the patriarch concerning its religious antiquities . 
Sophronius bowed before his new master , and secretly muttered , in the words of Daniel , The abomination of desolation is in the holy place . 
To the patriarch he disclosed his prudent and honorable motive . 
Had I yielded , said Omar , to your request , the Moslems of a future age would have infringed the treaty under color of imitating my example . 
See the explanation of this in Price , with the prophecy which was hereby fulfilled , p . 
The Arabs boast of an old prophecy preserved at Jerusalem , and describing the name , the religion , and the person of Omar , the future conqueror . 
a length of , a breadth of , toises . 
which he has used to supply the defective narrative of Al Wakidi . 
The silence , and at length the complaints , of Abu Obeidah informed the caliph that their hope and patience were consumed at the foot of this impregnable fortress . 
I am variously affected , replied Omar , by the difference of your success but I charge you by no means to raise the siege of the castle . 
Your retreat would diminish the reputation of our arms , and encourage the infidels to fall upon you on all sides . 
Remain before Aleppo till God shall determine the event , and forage with your horse round the adjacent country . 
The exhortation of the commander of the faithful was fortified by a supply of volunteers from all the tribes of Arabia , who arrived in the camp on horses or camels . 
Among these was Dames , of a servile birth , but of gigantic size and intrepid resolution . 
The forty seventh day of his service he proposed , with only thirty men , to make an attempt on the castle . 
His design was covered by the appearance of a retreat and the camp of the Saracens was pitched about a league from Aleppo . 
The thirty adventurers lay in ambush at the foot of the hill and Dames at length succeeded in his inquiries , though he was provoked by the ignorance of his Greek captives . 
Seven of the stoutest Saracens mounted on each other's shoulders , and the weight of the column was sustained on the broad and sinewy back of the gigantic slave . 
With bold and cautious footsteps , Dames explored the palace of the governor , who celebrated , in riotous merriment , the festival of his deliverance . 
From thence , returning to his companions , he assaulted on the inside the entrance of the castle . 
The capital of Syria was still covered by the castle of Aazaz and the iron bridge of the Orontes . 
After the loss of those important posts , and the defeat of the last of the Roman armies , the luxury of Antioch trembled and obeyed . 
describes the castle of Aleppo as founded on a rock one hundred cubits in height a proof , says the French translator , that he had never visited the place . 
The fortresses of the East are contemptible to a European eye . 
The date of the conquest of Antioch by the Arabs is of some importance . 
His bounteous edict , which tempted the grateful city to assume the victory of Pharsalia for a perpetual aera , is given . 
John Malala , in Chron . 
We may distinguish his authentic information of domestic facts from his gross ignorance of general history . 
In the life of Heraclius , the glories of the Persian war are clouded on either hand by the disgrace and weakness of his more early and his later days . 
Constantine , his eldest son , had been stationed with forty thousand men at Caesarea , the civil metropolis of the three provinces of Palestine . 
But his private interest recalled him to the Byzantine court and , after the flight of his father , he felt himself an unequal champion to the united force of the caliph . 
who laughs at the credulity of his author . 
I am perfectly ignorant of the mystic sense , or nonsense , of this prediction . 
Sixty five years before Christ , Syria Pontusque monumenta sunt Cn . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
The sieges and battles of six campaigns had consumed many thousands of the Moslems . 
Farewell , we shall meet again among the groves and fountains which God has provided for his elect . 
The more fortunate Arabs , who survived the war and persevered in the faith , were restrained by their abstemious leader from the abuse of prosperity . 
But the virtue of Omar , however rigorous to himself , was kind and liberal to his brethren . 
Therefore you ought to have given them leave to rest themselves , and partake freely of those good things which the country affordeth . 
The death of Abu Obeidah might be lamented by the Christians but his brethren recollected that he was one of the ten elect whom the prophet had named as the heirs of paradise . 
Caled survived his brethren about three years and the tomb of the Sword of God is shown in the neighborhood of Emesa . 
Mahomet could artfully vary the praises of his disciples . 
Yet Omar was obliged to acknowledge to his lamenting parent . 
that never mother had produced a son like Khaled . 
But the Saracens despise a superfluity of fame and their historians scarcely condescend to mention the subordinate conquests which are lost in the splendor and rapidity of their victorious career . 
To the north of Syria , they passed Mount Taurus , and reduced to their obedience the province of Cilicia , with its capital Tarsus , the ancient monument of the Assyrian kings . 
To the west the Syrian kingdom is bounded by the sea and the ruin of Aradus , a small island or peninsula on the coast , was postponed during ten years . 
But the hills of Libanus abounded in timber the trade of Phoenicia was populous in mariners and a fleet of seventeen hundred barks was equipped and manned by the natives of the desert . 
The Saracens rode masters of the sea and the islands of Cyprus , Rhodes , and the Cyclades , were successively exposed to their rapacious visits . 
Three hundred years before the Christian aera , the memorable though fruitless siege of Rhodes by Demetrius had furnished that maritime republic with the materials and the subject of a trophy . 
which our interpreters do not appear to have seen . 
Note It has been published in Arabic by M. Ewald St . 
xi p but its authenticity is doubted . 
See , in the iiid vol . 
The Byzantine writers , Theophanes and Constantine , have ignorantly prolonged the term to years , and ridiculously divide the weight among , camels . 
Centum colossi alium nobilitaturi locum , says Pliny , with his usual spirit . 
We learn this anecdote from a spirited old woman , who reviled to their faces , the caliph and his friend . 
Gagnier , Vie de Mahomet , tom . 
, who quotes the Abyssinian history , or romance of Abdel Balcides . 
Yet the fact of the embassy and ambassador may be allowed . 
The readers of Tacitus may aptly compare Vespasian and Mucianus with Moawiyah and Amrou . 
Yet the resemblance is still more in the situation , than in the characters , of the men . 
From his camp in Palestine , Amrou had surprised or anticipated the caliph's leave for the invasion of Egypt . 
In this perplexity , the commander of the faithful resigned himself to the decision of chance , or , in his opinion , of Providence . 
At the head of only four thousand Arabs , the intrepid Amrou had marched away from his station of Gaza when he was overtaken by the messenger of Omar . 
The experience , perhaps the secret intelligence , of Amrou had taught him to suspect the mutability of courts and he continued his march till his tents were unquestionably pitched on Egyptian ground . 
the Melchite patriarch of Alexandria , who lived three hundred years after the revolution . 
Yet the siege was protracted to seven months and the rash invaders were encompassed and threatened by the inundation of the Nile . 
But the name of Cairo , the town of victory , more strictly belongs to the modern capital , which was founded in the tenth century by the Fatimite caliphs . 
It has gradually receded from the river but the continuity of buildings may be traced by an attentive eye from the monuments of Sesostris to those of Saladin . 
but of Memphis he notices , however , the mixture of inhabitants , and the ruin of the palaces . 
and the name of Memphis appears with distinction in the Roman Itinerary and episcopal lists . 
and is usually proclaimed at Cairo on St . 
Murtadi , Merveilles de l'Egypte , , . 
He expatiates on the subject with the zeal and minuteness of a citizen and a bigot , and his local traditions have a strong air of truth and accuracy . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
The position of New and of Old Cairo is well known , and has been often described . 
who have removed Memphis towards the village of Mohannah , some miles farther to the south . 
In their heat , the disputants have forgot that the ample space of a metropolis covers and annihilates the far greater part of the controversy . 
Yet the Arabs , after a glorious and profitable enterprise , must have retreated to the desert , had they not found a powerful alliance in the heart of the country . 
The Saracens were received as the deliverers of the Jacobite church and a secret and effectual treaty was opened during the siege of Memphis between a victorious army and a people of slaves . 
In his first conference with Amrou , he heard without indignation the usual option of the Koran , the tribute , or the sword . 
For myself and my brethren , we are resolved to live and die in the profession of the gospel and unity of Christ . 
It is impossible for us to embrace the revelations of your prophet but we are desirous of peace , and cheerfully submit to pay tribute and obedience to his temporal successors . 
By this charter of security , the ecclesiastical and civil tyranny of the Melchites was destroyed the anathemas of St . 
Says the last of these historians . 
The praefecture of Egypt , and the conduct of the war , had been trusted by Heraclius to the patriarch Cyrus , In Spain , said James II . 
, do you not consult your priests ? We do , replied the Catholic ambassador , and our affairs succeed accordingly . 
In their annals of conquest , the siege of Alexandria is perhaps the most arduous and important enterprise . 
The first trading city in the world was abundantly replenished with the means of subsistence and defence . 
Her numerous inhabitants fought for the dearest of human rights , religion and property and the enmity of the natives seemed to exclude them from the common benefit of peace and toleration . 
The efforts of the Arabs were not inadequate to the difficulty of the attempt and the value of the prize . 
In every attack , the sword , the banner of Amrou , glittered in the van of the Moslems . 
I have taken , said Amrou to the caliph , the great city of the West . 
The town has been subdued by force of arms , without treaty or capitulation , and the Moslems are impatient to seize the fruits of their victory . 
The intelligence of this disgraceful and calamitous event afflicted the declining health of the emperor and Heraclius died of a dropsy about seven weeks after the loss of Alexandria . 
Under the minority of his grandson , the clamors of a people , deprived of their daily sustenance , compelled the Byzantine court to undertake the recovery of the capital of Egypt . 
In the space of four years , the harbor and fortifications of Alexandria were twice occupied by a fleet and army of Romans . 
They were twice expelled by the valor of Amrou , who was recalled by the domestic peril from the distant wars of Tripoli and Nubia . 
Of the two modern rivals , Savary and Volmey , the one may amuse , the other will instruct . 
In reckoning backwards fourteen months spent before Alexandria , seven months before Babylon , c . 
The Saracen , and afterwards Lewis IX . 
of France , halted at Pelusium , or Damietta , during the season of the inundation of the Nile . 
has extracted from Nicephorus and the Chronicon Orientale the true date of the death of Heraclius , February th , A. D. , fifty days after the loss of Alexandria . 
A fourth of that time was sufficient to convey the intelligence . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
I should deceive the expectation of the reader , if I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrian library , as it is described by the learned Abulpharagius . 
For my own part , I am strongly tempted to deny both the fact and the consequences . 
The fact is indeed marvellous . 
A more destructive zeal may perhaps be attributed to the first successors of Mahomet yet in this instance , the conflagration would have speedily expired in the deficiency of materials . 
Many treatises of this lover of labor are still extant , but for readers of the present age , the printed and unpublished are nearly in the same predicament . 
who sometimes assumed the same name was equal to old Philoponus in diligence , and far superior in good sense and real knowledge . 
Audi quid factum sit et mirare . 
habet aliquid ut Arabibus familiare est . 
Since this period several new Mahometan authorities have been adduced to support the authority of Abulpharagius . 
That of , I. Abdollatiph by Professor White II . 
Of Makrizi I have seen a Ms. extract from this writer III . 
Of Ibn Chaledun and after them Hadschi Chalfa . 
See Von Hammer , Geschichte der Assassinen , p . 
Reinhard , in a German Dissertation , printed at Gottingen , , and St . 
Among Oriental scholars , Professor White , M. St . 
de Sacy , consider the fact of the burning the library , by the command of Omar , beyond question . 
A Mahometan writer brings a similar charge against the Crusaders . 
The library of Tripoli is said to have contained the incredible number of three millions of volumes . 
On the capture of the city , Count Bertram of St . 
Giles , entering the first room , which contained nothing but the Koran , ordered the whole to be burnt , as the works of the false prophet of Arabia . 
Gesch der Kreux zuge , vol . 
M. This curious anecdote will be vainly sought in the annals of Eutychius , and the Saracenic history of Elmacin . 
The silence of Abulfeda , Murtadi , and a crowd of Moslems , is less conclusive from their ignorance of Christian literature . 
See Reland , de Jure Militari Mohammedanorum , in his iiid volume of Dissertations , p . 
The reason for not burning the religious books of the Jews or Christians , is derived from the respect that is due to the name of God . 
whose wisdom , on this occasion , deviates into nonsense . 
See this History , vol . 
They all speak in the past tense , and the words of Ammianus are remarkably strong fuerunt Bibliothecae innumerabiles et loquitum monumentorum veterum concinens fides , c . 
Renaudot answers for versions of the Bible , Hexapla , Catenoe Patrum , Commentaries , c . 
might possibly be among them . 
in which that judicious critic enumerates and appreciates the series of Greek and Latin classics . 
Such as Galen , Pliny , Aristotle , c . 
argues , with solid sense , against the lively exotic fancies of Sir William Temple . 
In the recent tumult of conquest and deliverance , the tongue of the Copts and the sword of the Arabs were most adverse to the tranquillity of the province . 
A third part of the tribute was appropriated to the annual repairs of the dikes and canals , so essential to the public welfare . 
has not been discovered either by Mr. Ockley , or by the self sufficient compilers of the Modern Universal History . 
Many learned men have doubted the existence of a communication by water between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean by the Nile . 
Yet the fact is positively asserted by the ancients . 
speaks of it in the most distinct manner as existing in his time . 
says that he went by water from Alexandria to Clysma , on the Red Sea . 
Testimonies of the th and of the th century show that the communication was not interrupted at that time . 
See the French translation of Strabo , vol . 
Even the supine Turks have agitated the old project of joining the two seas . 
Of his new conquest , the caliph Omar had an imperfect knowledge from the voice of fame and the legends of the Koran . 
He requested that his lieutenant would place before his eyes the realm of Pharaoh and the Amalekites and the answer of Amrou exhibits a lively and not unfaithful picture of that singular country . 
O commander of the faithful , Egypt is a compound of black earth and green plants , between a pulverized mountain and a red sand . 
The distance from Syene to the sea is a month's journey for a horseman . 
According to the vicissitudes of the seasons , the face of the country is adorned with a silver wave , a verdant emerald , and the deep yellow of a golden harvest . 
Yet this beneficial order is sometimes interrupted and the long delay and sudden swell of the river in the first year of the conquest might afford some color to an edifying fable . 
The admiration of the Arabs for their new conquest encouraged the license of their romantic spirit . 
A more accurate research will justify a more reasonable estimate . 
Two authentic lists , of the present and of the twelfth century , are circumscribed within the respectable number of two thousand seven hundred villages and towns . 
A small volume , des Merveilles , c . 
, de l'Egypte , composed in the xiiith century by Murtadi of Cairo , and translated from an Arabic Ms. of Cardinal Mazarin , was published by Pierre Vatier , Paris , . 
That rise and glitter o'er the ambient tide . 
The reader will not easily credit a human sacrifice under the Christian emperors , or a miracle of the successors of Mahomet . 
Maillet , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
Bestows twenty seven millions on ancient Egypt , because the seventeen hundred companions of Sesostris were born on the same day . 
can only enlarge his reckoning to square leagues . 
, who calls the common reading or version of Elmacin , error librarii . 
gradually raises the revenue of the Pharaohs , the Ptolemies , and the Caesars , from six to fifteen millions of German crowns . 
from the divan of Cairo , enumerates . 
who seems to argue with candor and judgment . 
I am much better satisfied with the observations than with the reading of the French consul . 
He was ignorant of Greek and Latin literature , and his fancy is too much delighted with the fictions of the Arabs . 
and in two recent voyages into Egypt , we are amused by Savary , and instructed by Volney . 
I wish the latter could travel over the globe . 
The conquest of Africa , from the Nile to the Atlantic Ocean , was first attempted by the arms of the caliph Othman . 
Yet the favor of the prince , and the merit of his favorite , could not obliterate the guilt of his apostasy . 
At the head of forty thousand Moslems , he advanced from Egypt into the unknown countries of the West . 
They derive their principal information from Novairi , who composed , A. D. an Encyclopaedia in more than twenty volumes . 
The five general parts successively treat of , . 
Among the older historians who are quoted by Navairi we may distinguish the original narrative of a soldier who led the van of the Moslems . 
Marmol had read and seen , but he is destitute of the curious and extensive observation which abounds in the original work of Leo the African . 
Theophanes , who mentions the defeat , rather than the death , of Gregory . 
In the African war he was detached from the standard of Abdallah . 
He cast his eyes round the field Where , said he , is our general ? In his tent . 
Retort , said Zobeir , on the infidels their ungenerous attempt . 
Proclaim through the ranks that the head of Gregory shall be repaid with his captive daughter , and the equal sum of one hundred thousand pieces of gold . 
To the courage and discretion of Zobeir the lieutenant of the caliph intrusted the execution of his own stratagem , which inclined the long disputed balance in favor of the Saracens . 
After the fall of this opulent city , the provincials and Barbarians implored on all sides the mercy of the conqueror . 
A reward congenial to his temper was the honorable commission of announcing to the caliph Othman the success of his arms . 
the death of Zobeir , which was honored with the tears of Ali , against whom he had rebelled . 
seems to report the same job . 
When the Arabs be sieged the palace of Othman , it stood high in their catalogue of grievances . 
His chronology is loose and inaccurate . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
I should deceive the expectation of the reader , if I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrian library , as it is described by the learned Abulpharagius . 
For my own part , I am strongly tempted to deny both the fact and the consequences . 
The fact is indeed marvellous . 
A more destructive zeal may perhaps be attributed to the first successors of Mahomet yet in this instance , the conflagration would have speedily expired in the deficiency of materials . 
Many treatises of this lover of labor are still extant , but for readers of the present age , the printed and unpublished are nearly in the same predicament . 
who sometimes assumed the same name was equal to old Philoponus in diligence , and far superior in good sense and real knowledge . 
Audi quid factum sit et mirare . 
habet aliquid ut Arabibus familiare est . 
Since this period several new Mahometan authorities have been adduced to support the authority of Abulpharagius . 
That of , I. Abdollatiph by Professor White II . 
Of Makrizi I have seen a Ms. extract from this writer III . 
Of Ibn Chaledun and after them Hadschi Chalfa . 
See Von Hammer , Geschichte der Assassinen , p . 
Reinhard , in a German Dissertation , printed at Gottingen , , and St . 
Among Oriental scholars , Professor White , M. St . 
de Sacy , consider the fact of the burning the library , by the command of Omar , beyond question . 
A Mahometan writer brings a similar charge against the Crusaders . 
The library of Tripoli is said to have contained the incredible number of three millions of volumes . 
On the capture of the city , Count Bertram of St . 
Giles , entering the first room , which contained nothing but the Koran , ordered the whole to be burnt , as the works of the false prophet of Arabia . 
Gesch der Kreux zuge , vol . 
M. This curious anecdote will be vainly sought in the annals of Eutychius , and the Saracenic history of Elmacin . 
The silence of Abulfeda , Murtadi , and a crowd of Moslems , is less conclusive from their ignorance of Christian literature . 
See Reland , de Jure Militari Mohammedanorum , in his iiid volume of Dissertations , p . 
The reason for not burning the religious books of the Jews or Christians , is derived from the respect that is due to the name of God . 
whose wisdom , on this occasion , deviates into nonsense . 
See this History , vol . 
They all speak in the past tense , and the words of Ammianus are remarkably strong fuerunt Bibliothecae innumerabiles et loquitum monumentorum veterum concinens fides , c . 
Renaudot answers for versions of the Bible , Hexapla , Catenoe Patrum , Commentaries , c . 
might possibly be among them . 
in which that judicious critic enumerates and appreciates the series of Greek and Latin classics . 
Such as Galen , Pliny , Aristotle , c . 
argues , with solid sense , against the lively exotic fancies of Sir William Temple . 
In the recent tumult of conquest and deliverance , the tongue of the Copts and the sword of the Arabs were most adverse to the tranquillity of the province . 
A third part of the tribute was appropriated to the annual repairs of the dikes and canals , so essential to the public welfare . 
has not been discovered either by Mr. Ockley , or by the self sufficient compilers of the Modern Universal History . 
Many learned men have doubted the existence of a communication by water between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean by the Nile . 
Yet the fact is positively asserted by the ancients . 
speaks of it in the most distinct manner as existing in his time . 
says that he went by water from Alexandria to Clysma , on the Red Sea . 
Testimonies of the th and of the th century show that the communication was not interrupted at that time . 
See the French translation of Strabo , vol . 
Even the supine Turks have agitated the old project of joining the two seas . 
Of his new conquest , the caliph Omar had an imperfect knowledge from the voice of fame and the legends of the Koran . 
He requested that his lieutenant would place before his eyes the realm of Pharaoh and the Amalekites and the answer of Amrou exhibits a lively and not unfaithful picture of that singular country . 
O commander of the faithful , Egypt is a compound of black earth and green plants , between a pulverized mountain and a red sand . 
The distance from Syene to the sea is a month's journey for a horseman . 
According to the vicissitudes of the seasons , the face of the country is adorned with a silver wave , a verdant emerald , and the deep yellow of a golden harvest . 
Yet this beneficial order is sometimes interrupted and the long delay and sudden swell of the river in the first year of the conquest might afford some color to an edifying fable . 
The admiration of the Arabs for their new conquest encouraged the license of their romantic spirit . 
A more accurate research will justify a more reasonable estimate . 
Two authentic lists , of the present and of the twelfth century , are circumscribed within the respectable number of two thousand seven hundred villages and towns . 
A small volume , des Merveilles , c . 
, de l'Egypte , composed in the xiiith century by Murtadi of Cairo , and translated from an Arabic Ms. of Cardinal Mazarin , was published by Pierre Vatier , Paris , . 
That rise and glitter o'er the ambient tide . 
The reader will not easily credit a human sacrifice under the Christian emperors , or a miracle of the successors of Mahomet . 
Maillet , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
Bestows twenty seven millions on ancient Egypt , because the seventeen hundred companions of Sesostris were born on the same day . 
can only enlarge his reckoning to square leagues . 
, who calls the common reading or version of Elmacin , error librarii . 
gradually raises the revenue of the Pharaohs , the Ptolemies , and the Caesars , from six to fifteen millions of German crowns . 
from the divan of Cairo , enumerates . 
who seems to argue with candor and judgment . 
I am much better satisfied with the observations than with the reading of the French consul . 
He was ignorant of Greek and Latin literature , and his fancy is too much delighted with the fictions of the Arabs . 
and in two recent voyages into Egypt , we are amused by Savary , and instructed by Volney . 
I wish the latter could travel over the globe . 
The conquest of Africa , from the Nile to the Atlantic Ocean , was first attempted by the arms of the caliph Othman . 
Yet the favor of the prince , and the merit of his favorite , could not obliterate the guilt of his apostasy . 
At the head of forty thousand Moslems , he advanced from Egypt into the unknown countries of the West . 
They derive their principal information from Novairi , who composed , A. D. an Encyclopaedia in more than twenty volumes . 
The five general parts successively treat of , . 
Among the older historians who are quoted by Navairi we may distinguish the original narrative of a soldier who led the van of the Moslems . 
Marmol had read and seen , but he is destitute of the curious and extensive observation which abounds in the original work of Leo the African . 
Theophanes , who mentions the defeat , rather than the death , of Gregory . 
In the African war he was detached from the standard of Abdallah . 
He cast his eyes round the field Where , said he , is our general ? In his tent . 
Retort , said Zobeir , on the infidels their ungenerous attempt . 
Proclaim through the ranks that the head of Gregory shall be repaid with his captive daughter , and the equal sum of one hundred thousand pieces of gold . 
To the courage and discretion of Zobeir the lieutenant of the caliph intrusted the execution of his own stratagem , which inclined the long disputed balance in favor of the Saracens . 
After the fall of this opulent city , the provincials and Barbarians implored on all sides the mercy of the conqueror . 
A reward congenial to his temper was the honorable commission of announcing to the caliph Othman the success of his arms . 
the death of Zobeir , which was honored with the tears of Ali , against whom he had rebelled . 
seems to report the same job . 
When the Arabs be sieged the palace of Othman , it stood high in their catalogue of grievances . 
His chronology is loose and inaccurate . 
Chapter LI Conquests By The Arabs . 
Some enemies yet remained for the sword of Musa . 
They were successively besieged and reduced by the labor of Musa , who transported his camp from the Boetis to the Anas , from the Guadalquivir to the Guadiana . 
The constancy of the besieged was at length subdued by famine and despair and the prudent victor disguised his impatience under the names of clemency and esteem . 
In the midway between Merida and Toledo , the lieutenant of Musa saluted the vicegerent of the caliph , and conducted him to the palace of the Gothic kings . 
In the church of St . 
The conditions of peace agreed and sworn between Abdelaziz , the son of Musa , the son of Nassir , and Theodemir prince of the Goths . 
Given the fourth of Regeb , in the year of the Hegira ninety four , and subscribed with the names of four Mussulman witnesses . 
was razed to its foundations . 
enumerates the ancient structures , but concludes with a sigh Urbs haec olim nobilissima ad magnam incolarum infrequentiam delapsa est , et praeter priscae claritatis ruinas nihil ostendit . 
lead Musa into the Narbonnese Gaul . 
I much question whether Musa ever passed the Pyrenees . 
surveyed with pleasure the delicious valley from Murcia to Orihuela , four leagues and a half of the finest corn pulse , lucerne , oranges , c . 
Gibbon has made eight cities in Conde's translation Bigera does not appear . 
M. See the treaty in Arabic and Latin , in the Bibliotheca Arabico Hispana , tom . 
From the history of Sandoval , p . 
has given the substance of another treaty concluded A Ae . 
C. , A. D. , between an Arabian chief and the Goths and Romans , of the territory of Conimbra in Portugal . 
The church doors must be shut , and they must respect the name of Mahomet . 
I have not the original before me it would confirm or destroy a dark suspicion , that the piece has been forged to introduce the immunity of a neighboring convent . 
The exploits of Musa were performed in the evening of life , though he affected to disguise his age by coloring with a red powder the whiteness of his beard . 
But his vast enterprise , perhaps of easy execution , must have seemed extravagant to vulgar minds and the visionary conqueror was soon reminded of his dependence and servitude . 
An intrepid messenger of the caliph entered his camp at Lugo in Gallicia , and in the presence of the Saracens and Christians arrested the bridle of his horse . 
Had Walid recovered , the delay of Musa would have been criminal he pursued his march , and found an enemy on the throne . 
The resentment of the caliph might have been satiated with the ruin of Musa but his fears demanded the extirpation of a potent and injured family . 
The age and despair of Musa raised him above the power of kings and he expired at Mecca of the anguish of a broken heart . 
His rival was more favorably treated his services were forgiven and Tarik was permitted to mingle with the crowd of slaves . 
I much regret our loss , or my ignorance , of two Arabic works of the viiith century , a Life of Musa , and a poem on the exploits of Tarik . 
The royal legion of Damascus was planted at Cordova that of Emesa at Seville that of Kinnisrin or Chalcis at Jaen that of Palestine at Algezire and Medina Sidonia . 
A spirit of emulation , sometimes beneficial , more frequently dangerous , was nourished by these hereditary factions . 
The Arabs might exaggerate the truth , but they created and they describe the most prosperous aera of the riches , the cultivation , and the populousness of Spain . 
was an historian , geographer , physician , poet , c . 
de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne , tom . 
A copious treatise of husbandry , by an Arabian of Seville , in the xiith century , is in the Escurial library , and Casiri had some thoughts of translating it . 
He gives a list of the authors quoted , Arabs as well as Greeks , Latins , c . 
Casiri translates the original testimony of the historian Rasis , as it is alleged in the Arabic Biographia Hispanica , pars ix . 
But I am most exceedingly surprised at the address , Principibus caeterisque Christianis , Hispanis suis Castellae . 
Had Casiri been a critic , he would have cleared a difficulty , perhaps of his own making . 
He computes the revenue at , , of French livres . 
The entire picture of peace and prosperity relieves the bloody uniformity of the Moorish annals . 
Matriti , in folio , tomus prior , , tomus posterior , . 
The execution of this work does honor to the Spanish press the Mss. , to the number of MDCCCLI . 
, are judiciously classed by the editor , and his copious extracts throw some light on the Mahometan literature and history of Spain . 
Note Compare the valuable work of Conde , Historia de la Dominacion de las Arabes en Espana . 
Arabia was the temple and patrimony of the God of Mahomet but he beheld with less jealousy and affection the nations of the earth . 
In the eyes of an inquisitive polytheist , it must appear worthy of the human and the divine nature . 
The Harbii , as they are styled , qui tolerari nequeunt , are , . 
Those who , besides God , worship the sun , moon , or idols . 
In the extensive provinces of Persia and Africa , the national religion has been eradicated by the Mahometan faith . 
Their evil principle , the daemon Ahriman , might be represented as the rival , or as the creature , of the God of light . 
The temples of Persia were devoid of images but the worship of the sun and of fire might be stigmatized as a gross and criminal idolatry . 
A fanatic Iman deplored , in his sermons , the scandalous neighborhood , and accused the weakness or indifference of the faithful . 
with this holy and meritorious perjury . 
But the greatest part of the temples of Persia were ruined by the insensible and general desertion of their votaries . 
It was insensible , since it is not accompanied with any memorial of time or place , of persecution or resistance . 
I much fear that we do not possess any pure and free description of the system of Zoroaster . 
adopts the opinion , that he had been the slave and scholar of some Jewish prophet in the captivity of Babylon . 
Perhaps the Persians , who have been the masters of the Jews , would assert the honor , a poor honor , of being their masters . 
but his numerous extracts , under the improper name of Khondemir , belong to the father rather than the son . 
The historian of Genghizcan refers to a Ms. of Mirchond , which he received from the hands of his friend D'Herbelot himself . 
and the editor allows us to hope for a continuation of Mirchond . 
Quo testimonio boni se quidpiam praestitisse opinabantur . 
peracto singulis annis censu uti sacra Mohammedis lege cautum , ab omnibus molestiis ac oneribus libero esse licuit . 
I should say the fall of the religion of Zoroaster . 
His brethren , Pietro della Valle , Olearius , Thevenot , Tavernier , c . 
, whom I have fruitlessly searched , had neither eyes nor attention for this interesting people . 
The Northern coast of Africa is the only land in which the light of the gospel , after a long and perfect establishment , has been totally extinguished . 
The arts , which had been taught by Carthage and Rome , were involved in a cloud of ignorance the doctrine of Cyprian and Augustin was no longer studied . 
Five hundred episcopal churches were overturned by the hostile fury of the Donatists , the Vandals , and the Moors . 
In the next age , an extraordinary mission of five bishops was detached from Alexandria to Cairoan . 
It was no longer the time when the successor of St . 
Cyprian , at the head of a numerous synod , could maintain an equal contest with the ambition of the Roman pontiff . 
Two epistles of Gregory the Seventh are destined to soothe the distress of the Catholics and the pride of a Moorish prince . 
was applied to their civil or religious conformity . 
But the seed of the gospel was quickly eradicated , and the long province from Tripoli to the Atlantic has lost all memory of the language and religion of Rome . 
The letter of Abdoulrahman , governor or tyrant of Africa , to the caliph Aboul Abbas , the first of the Abbassides , is dated A. H. Cardonne , Hist . 
de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne , tom . 
) Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
Among the Epistles of the Popes , see Leo IX . 
who investigates the name and family of the Moorish prince , with whom the proudest of the Roman pontiffs so politely corresponds . 
for the use of the bishops and clergy in the Moorish kingdoms . 
Pagi , Critica , tom . 
A. D. , No. , . 
He justly observes , that when Seville , c . 
are copied from some older book . 
Leo Africanus would have flattered his Roman masters , could he have discovered any latent relics of the Christianity of Africa . 
After the revolution of eleven centuries , the Jews and Christians of the Turkish empire enjoy the liberty of conscience which was granted by the Arabian caliphs . 
Yet this partial jealousy was healed by time and submission the churches of Egypt were shared with the Catholics and all the Oriental sects were included in the common benefits of toleration . 
A caliph of the house of Abbas was heard to declare that the Christians were most worthy of trust in the administration of Persia . 
The Moslems , said he , will abuse their present fortune the Magians regret their fallen greatness and the Jews are impatient for their approaching deliverance . 
But the slaves of despotism are exposed to the alternatives of favor and disgrace . 
About two hundred years after Mahomet , they were separated from their fellow subjects by a turban or girdle of a less honorable color instead of horses or mules . 
they were condemned to ride on asses , in the attitude of women . 
The martyrs of Cordova provoked the sentence of the cadhi , by the public confession of their inconstancy , or their passionate invectives against the person and religion of the prophet . 
ut pari loco habeas Nestorianos , quorum praeter Arabas nullus alius rex est , et Graecos quorum reges amovendo Arabibus bello non desistunt , c . 
the state of the Nestorians under the caliphs . 
That of the Jacobites is more concisely exposed in the Preliminary Dissertation of the second volume of Assemannus . 
A taint of the Monothelite heresy might render the first of these Greek patriarchs less loyal to the emperors and less obnoxious to the Arabs . 
Motadhed , who reigned from A. D. to . 
A persecution of the caliph Omar II . 
are commemorated and justified by St . 
Eulogius , who at length fell a victim himself . 
A synod , convened by the caliph , ambiguously censured their rashness . 
The moderate Fleury cannot reconcile their conduct with the discipline of antiquity , toutefois l'autorite de l'eglise , c . 
Their authentic acts throw a strong , though transient , light on the Spanish church in the ixth century . 
At the end of the first century of the Hegira , the caliphs were the most potent and absolute monarchs of the globe . 
The authority of the companions of Mahomet expired with their lives and the chiefs or emirs of the Arabian tribes left behind , in the desert , the spirit of equality and independence . 
Since that time , the losses in Spain have been overbalanced by the conquests in India , Tartary , and the European Turkey . 
The Arabic of the Koran is taught as a dead language in the college of Mecca . 
Chapter LII More Conquests By The Arabs . 
Part I. The Two Sieges Of Constantinople By The Arabs . 
Their Invasion Of France , And Defeat By Charles Martel . 
Civil War Of The Ommiades And Abbassides . 
Naval Enterprises On Crete , Sicily , And Rome . 
Decay And Division Of The Empire Of The Caliphs . 
Defeats And Victories Of The Greek Emperors . 
When the Arabs first issued from the desert , they must have been surprised at the ease and rapidity of their own success . 
Forty six years after the flight of Mahomet from Mecca , his disciples appeared in arms under the walls of Constantinople . 
The Arabian fleet cast anchor , and the troops were disembarked near the palace of Hebdomon , seven miles from the city . 
But the besiegers had formed an insufficient estimate of the strength and resources of Constantinople . 
by Abulfeda , whose testimony I esteem the most convenient and credible . 
Ockley's History of the Saracens , vol . 
who was sent to fortify them against the Russians . 
From a principal actor , I should have expected more accurate details but he seems to write for the amusement , rather than the instruction , of his reader . 
Perhaps , on the approach of the enemy , the minister of Constantine was occupied , like that of Mustapha , in finding two Canary birds who should sing precisely the same note . 
of the Othman Empire , p . 
Rycaut's State of the Ottoman Empire , p . 
Voyages of Thevenot , part i . 
The Christians , who suppose that the martyr Abu Ayub is vulgarly confounded with the patriarch Job , betray their own ignorance rather than that of the Turks . 
The event of the siege revived , both in the East and West , the reputation of the Roman arms , and cast a momentary shade over the glories of the Saracens . 
Till the reign of Abdalmalek , the Saracens had been content with the free possession of the Persian and Roman treasures , in the coins of Chosroes and Caesar . 
Under the reign of the caliph Walid , the Greek language and characters were excluded from the accounts of the public revenue . 
The series of these events may be traced in the Annals of Theophanes , and in the Abridgment of the patriarch Nicephorus , p . 
These domestic revolutions are related in a clear and natural style , in the second volume of Ockley's History of the Saracens , p . 
and equivalent to eight shillings of our sterling money . 
From the same Elmacin and the Arabian physicians , some dinars as high as two dirhems , as low as half a dirhem , may be deduced . 
Note Up to this time the Arabs had used the Roman or the Persian coins or had minted others which resembled them . 
Some of these exist in different collections . 
The same author informs us that the caliph Abdalmalek caused coins to be struck representing himself with a sword by his side . 
See , also , in the Journal Asiatique , tom . 
, a paper of M. Silvestre de Sacy , entitled Des Monnaies des Khalifes avant l'An de l'Hegire . 
See , also the translation of a German paper on the Arabic medals of the Chosroes , by M. Fraehn . 
in the same Journal Asiatique tom . 
This defect , if it really existed , must have stimulated the ingenuity of the Arabs to invent or borrow . 
our ciphers are not of Indian or Arabic invention . 
They were used by the Greek and Latin arithmeticians long before the age of Boethius . 
After the extinction of science in the West , they were adopted by the Arabic versions from the original Mss. , and restored to the Latins about the xith century . 
Note Compare , on the Introduction of the Arabic numerals , Hallam's Introduction to the Literature of Europe , p . 
, note , and the authors quoted therein . 
But the attempt and disgrace of the second siege was reserved for his brother Soliman , whose ambition appears to have been quickened by a more active and martial spirit . 
The precautions of Anastasius were not unworthy of his station , or of the impending danger . 
This generous enterprise was defeated by the cowardice or treachery of the troops , who , in the new language of the empire , were styled of the Obsequian Theme . 
At the well known passage of Abydus , on the Hellespont , the Mahometan arms were transported , for the first time , from Asia to Europe . 
The brother of Moslemah was succeeded by a kinsman and an enemy and the throne of an active and able prince was degraded by the useless and pernicious virtues of a bigot . 
The trade and navigation of the capital were restored and the produce of the fisheries supplied the wants , and even the luxury , of the inhabitants . 
At length , after a siege of thirteen months , the hopeless Moslemah received from the caliph the welcome permission of retreat . 
the Obsequium , a Latin appellation of the army and palace , was the fourth in the public order . 
It is singular that Gibbon should thus contradict himself in a few pages . 
By his own account this was the second time . 
M. The caliph had emptied two baskets of eggs and of figs , which he swallowed alternately , and the repast was concluded with marrow and sugar . 
Note The Tarikh Tebry ascribes the death of Soliman to a pleurisy . 
The same gross gluttony in which Soliman indulged , though not fatal to the life , interfered with the military duties , of his brother Moslemah . 
M. ! ! Major Price's estimate of Omar's character is much more favorable . 
Among a race of sanguinary tyrants , Omar was just and humane . 
His virtues as well as his bigotry were active . 
praeferens , says Elmacin , religionem suam rebus suis mundanis . 
to obtain a perfect cure of his last malady . 
I do not find that Pagi has remarked this inconsistency . 
The Tarikh Tebry embellishes the retreat of Moslemah with some extraordinary and incredible circumstances . 
the most satisfactory of the Arabs . 
In the two sieges , the deliverance of Constantinople may be chiefly ascribed to the novelty , the terrors , and the real efficacy of the Greek fire . 
The naphtha was mingled , I know not by what methods or in what proportions , with sulphur and with the pitch that is extracted from evergreen firs . 
For the annoyance of the enemy , it was employed with equal effect , by sea and land , in battles or in sieges . 
In the treaties of the administration of the empire , the royal author suggests the answers and excuses that might best elude the indiscreet curiosity and importunate demands of the Barbarians . 
Observations sur Villehardouin , p . 
Observations sur Joinville , p . 
Heliopolis in Egypt and chemistry was indeed the peculiar science of the Egyptians . 
is introduced on slight evidence and strong probability . 
calls the Greek fire and the naphtha is known to abound between the Tigris and the Caspian Sea . 
may fairly signify this liquid bitumen . 
M. On the different sorts of oils and bitumens , see Dr . 
, a classic book , the best adapted to infuse the taste and knowledge of chemistry . 
magna cognatio est ignium , transiliuntque protinus in eam undecunque visam . 
Anna Comnena has partly drawn aside the curtain . 
she mentions the property of burning . 
speaks of the new invention . 
These are genuine and Imperial testimonies . 
Paris , de l'Imprimerie Royale , . 
The former of these editions is precious for the observations of Ducange the latter for the pure and original text of Joinville . 
We must have recourse to that text to discover , that the feu Gregeois was shot with a pile or javelin , from an engine that acted like a sling . 
But their evidence , which precedes the vulgar aera of the invention , is seldom clear or satisfactory , and subsequent writers may be suspected of fraud or credulity . 
are the most difficult to elude . 
Chapter LII More Conquests By The Arabs . 
The decline of the French monarchy invited the attack of these insatiate fanatics . 
The descendants of Clovis had lost the inheritance of his martial and ferocious spirit and their misfortune or demerit has affixed the epithet of lazy to the last kings of the Merovingian race . 
They ascended the throne without power , and sunk into the grave without a name . 
That domestic officer was become the minister of the nation and the master of the prince . 
The ambition of his successors was stimulated by revenge they repassed the Pyrenees with the means and the resolution of conquest . 
of Roderic Ximenes , archbishop of Toledo , who had before him the Christian chronicle of Isidore Pacensis , and the Mahometan history of Novairi . 
has given a pure and simple account of all that he could collect from Ibn Halikan , Hidjazi , and an anonymous writer . 
has restored the chronology , which is anticipated six years in the Annals of Baronius . 
has more merit for lively reflection than original research . 
Eginhart , de Vita Caroli Magni , c . 
may truly affirm , that it was the residence of the rois tres Chretiens en tres chevelus . 
But these narrow limits were scorned by the spirit of Abdalraman , or Abderame , who had been restored by the caliph Hashem to the wishes of the soldiers and people of Spain . 
From the Pyrenees , Abderame proceeded without delay to the passage of the Rhone and the siege of Arles . 
The arms of Abderame were not less successful on the side of the ocean . 
With regard to the sanctuary of St . 
Martin of Tours , Roderic Ximenes accuses the Saracens of the deed . 
Turonis civitatem , ecclesiam et palatia vastatione et incendio simili diruit et consumpsit . 
The continuator of Fredegarius imputes to them no more than the intention . 
Ad domum beatissimi Martini evertendam destinant . 
The French annalist was more jealous of the honor of the saint . 
His observations on the character and religion of Mahomet are always adapted to his argument , and generally founded in truth and reason . 
He sustains the part of a lively and eloquent advocate and sometimes rises to the merit of an historian and philosopher . 
From such calamities was Christendom delivered by the genius and fortune of one man . 
In the public danger he was summoned by the voice of his country and his rival , the duke of Aquitain , was reduced to appear among the fugitives and suppliants . 
their arms , are inferior to our own . 
If you follow my advice , replied the prudent mayor of the palace , you will not interrupt their march , nor precipitate your attack . 
They are like a torrent , which it is dangerous to stem in its career . 
The thirst of riches , and the consciousness of success , redouble their valor , and valor is of more avail than arms or numbers . 
Be patient till they have loaded themselves with the encumbrance of wealth . 
The possession of wealth will divide their councils and assure your victory . 
It is yet more probable , that the delays of Charles were inevitable and reluctant . 
No sooner had he collected his forces , than he sought and found the enemy in the centre of France , between Tours and Poitiers . 
His well conducted march was covered with a range of hills , and Abderame appears to have been surprised by his unexpected presence . 
The nations of Asia , Africa , and Europe , advanced with equal ardor to an encounter which would change the history of the world . 
After a bloody field , in which Abderame was slain , the Saracens , in the close of the evening , retired to their camp . 
Yet Baronius himself , and the French critics , reject with contempt this episcopal fiction . 
The loss of an army , or a province , in the Western world , was less painful to the court of Damascus , than the rise and progress of a domestic competitor . 
Except among the Syrians , the caliphs of the house of Ommiyah had never been the objects of the public favor . 
Of these the Fatimites were either rash or pusillanimous but the descendants of Abbas cherished , with courage and discretion , the hopes of their rising fortunes . 
A mean , perhaps a foreign , extraction could not repress the aspiring energy of Abu Moslem . 
But it was on the banks of the Zab , and not in the mosch of Cufa , that this important controversy was determined . 
Fourscore of the Ommiades , who had yielded to the faith or clemency of their foes , were invited to a banquet at Damascus . 
The laws of hospitality were violated by a promiscuous massacre the board was spread over their fallen bodies and the festivity of the guests was enlivened by the music of their dying groans . 
The steed and the saddle which had carried any of his wives were instantly killed or burnt , lest they should afterwards be mounted by a male . 
Twelve hundred mules or camels were required for his kitchen furniture and the daily consumption amounted to three thousand cakes , a hundred sheep , besides oxen , poultry , c . 
He is called Abdullah or Abul Abbas in the Tarikh Tebry . 
He had been governor of Mesopotamia , and the Arabic proverb praises the courage of that warlike breed of asses who never fly from an enemy . 
Four several places , all in Egypt , bore the name of Busir , or Busiris , so famous in Greek fable . 
and the Bibliotheque of D'Herbelot , in the articles Ommiades , Abbassides , Moervan , Ibrahim , Saffah , Abou Moslem . 
His presence in the neighborhood of Spain revived the zeal of the white faction . 
The example of the Ommiades was imitated by the real or fictitious progeny of Ali , the Edrissites of Mauritania , and the more powerful fatimites of Africa and Egypt . 
concerning the division of the Saracen empire . 
Mecca was the patrimony of the line of Hashem , yet the Abbassides were never tempted to reside either in the birthplace or the city of the prophet . 
His son Mahadi , in a single pilgrimage to Mecca , expended six millions of dinars of gold . 
The caliph's whole army , says the historian Abulfeda , both horse and foot , was under arms , which together made a body of one hundred and sixty thousand men . 
His state officers , the favorite slaves , stood near him in splendid apparel , their belts glittering with gold and gems . 
Near them were seven thousand eunuchs , four thousand of them white , the remainder black . 
The porters or door keepers were in number seven hundred . 
Barges and boats , with the most superb decorations , were seen swimming upon the Tigris . 
Nor was the palace itself less splendid , in which were hung up thirty eight thousand pieces of tapestry , twelve thousand five hundred of which were of silk embroidered with gold . 
The carpets on the floor were twenty two thousand . 
A hundred lions were brought out , with a keeper to each lion . 
While the machinery affected spontaneous motions , the several birds warbled their natural harmony . 
Through this scene of magnificence , the Greek ambassador was led by the vizier to the foot of the caliph's throne . 
In the West , the Ommiades of Spain supported , with equal pomp , the title of commander of the faithful . 
Three miles from Cordova , in honor of his favorite sultana , the third and greatest of the Abdalrahmans constructed the city , palace , and gardens of Zehra . 
The hall of audience was incrusted with gold and pearls , and a great basin in the centre was surrounded with the curious and costly figures of birds and quadrupeds . 
In a lofty pavilion of the gardens , one of these basins and fountains , so delightful in a sultry climate , was replenished not with water , but with the purest quicksilver . 
may suffice for the knowledge of Bagdad . 
are the only writers of my acquaintance , who have known Bagdad under the reign of the Abbassides . 
The foundations of Bagdad were laid A. H. , A. D. . 
Mostasem , the last of the Abbassides , was taken and put to death by the Tartars , A. H. , A. D. , the th of February . 
Medinat al Salem , Dar al Salem . 
Reliquit in aerario sexcenties millies mille stateres . 
et quater et vicies millies mille aureos aureos . 
I have reckoned the gold pieces at eight shillings , and the proportion to the silver as twelve to one . 
But I will never answer for the numbers of Erpenius and the Latins are scarcely above the savages in the language of arithmetic . 
Nivem Meccam apportavit , rem ibi aut nunquam aut rarissime visam . 
describes the splendor and liberality of Almamon . 
Milton has alluded to this Oriental custom Or where the gorgeous East , with richest hand , Showers on her kings Barbaric pearls and gold . 
accompanied the Russian ambassador to the audience of the unfortunate Shah Hussein of Persia , two lions were introduced , to denote the power of the king over the fiercest animals . 
This embassy was received at Bagdad , A. H. , A. D. . 
Cardonne , Histoire de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne , tom . 
Chapter LII More Conquests By The Arabs . 
I have now reigned above fifty years in victory or peace beloved by my subjects , dreaded by my enemies , and respected by my allies . 
Riches and honors , power and pleasure , have waited on my call , nor does any earthly blessing appear to have been wanting to my felicity . 
The Abbassides were impoverished by the multitude of their wants , and their contempt of oeconomy . 
A similar temper was diffused among the subjects of the caliph . 
Their stern enthusiasm was softened by time and prosperity . 
they sought riches in the occupations of industry , fame in the pursuits of literature , and happiness in the tranquillity of domestic life . 
will be triumphantly quoted by the detractors of human life . 
Their expectations are commonly immoderate , their estimates are seldom impartial . 
Under the reign of the Ommiades , the studies of the Moslems were confined to the interpretation of the Koran , and the eloquence and poetry of their native tongue . 
After their civil and domestic wars , the subjects of the Abbassides , awakening from this mental lethargy , found leisure and felt curiosity for the acquisition of profane science . 
This spirit was first encouraged by the caliph Almansor , who , besides his knowledge of the Mahometan law , had applied himself with success to the study of astronomy . 
But when the sceptre devolved to Almamon , the seventh of the Abbassides , he completed the designs of his grandfather , and invited the muses from their ancient seats . 
The mean ambition of the Chinese or the Turks may glory in the industry of their hands or the indulgence of their brutal appetites . 
The teachers of wisdom are the true luminaries and legislators of a world , which , without their aid , would again sink in ignorance and barbarism . 
In every city the productions of Arabic literature were copied and collected by the curiosity of the studious and the vanity of the rich . 
A private doctor refused the invitation of the sultan of Bochara , because the carriage of his books would have required four hundred camels . 
The royal library of the Fatimites consisted of one hundred thousand manuscripts , elegantly transcribed and splendidly bound , which were lent , without jealousy or avarice , to the students of Cairo . 
has given an extract of the aphorisms which are extant under his name . 
The actual measure is degrees minutes , degrees minutes . 
Yet this perfect harmony raises the work at the expense of the artist he bees are not masters of transcendent geometry . 
with this curious passage , as well as with the text of Pocock's Specimen Historiae Arabum . 
A number of literary anecdotes of philosophers , physicians , c . 
, who have flourished under each caliph , form the principal merit of the Dynasties of Abulpharagius . 
besides the chronological remarks of Abulpharagius . 
In the libraries of the Arabians , as in those of Europe , the far greater part of the innumerable volumes were possessed only of local value or imaginary merit . 
The works of speculation or science may be reduced to the four classes of philosophy , mathematics , astronomy , and physic . 
Plato wrote for the Athenians , and his allegorical genius is too closely blended with the language and religion of Greece . 
The physics , both of the Academy and the Lycaeum , as they are built , not on observation , but on argument , have retarded the progress of real knowledge . 
The metaphysics of infinite , or finite , spirit , have too often been enlisted in the service of superstition . 
But the human faculties are fortified by the art and practice of dialectics the ten predicaments of Aristotle collect and methodize our ideas , and his syllogism is the keenest weapon of dispute . 
The mathematics are distinguished by a peculiar privilege , that , in the course of ages , they may always advance , and can never recede . 
They cultivated with more success the sublime science of astronomy , which elevates the mind of man to disdain his diminutive planet and momentary existence . 
The costly instruments of observation were supplied by the caliph Almamon , and the land of the Chaldaeans still afforded the same spacious level , the same unclouded horizon . 
But in the science of medicine , the Arabians have been deservedly applauded . 
Botany is an active science , and the discoveries of the torrid zone might enrich the herbal of Dioscorides with two thousand plants . 
The Arabic catalogue of the Escurial will give a just idea of the proportion of the classes . 
Most of the versions of Plato , Aristotle , Hippocrates , Galen , c . 
, are ascribed to Honain , a physician of the Nestorian sect , who flourished at Bagdad in the court of the caliphs , and died A. D. . 
He was at the head of a school or manufacture of translations , and the works of his sons and disciples were published under his name . 
, , , , , , , , c . 
who labored to revive the studies of Grecian literature and philosophy . 
si immiserit selector , oceanum hoc in genere inveniet . 
describes this operation according to Ibn Challecan , and the best historians . 
This degree most accurately contains , royal or Hashemite cubits which Arabia had derived from the sacred and legal practice both of Palestine and Egypt . 
This ancient cubit is repeated times in each basis of the great pyramid , and seems to indicate the primitive and universal measures of the East . 
See the Metrologie of the laborions . 
See the Astronomical Tables of Ulugh Begh , with the preface of Dr . 
Hyde in the first volume of his Syntagma Dissertationum , Oxon . 
The original relates a pleasant tale of an ignorant , but harmless , practitioner . 
His reputation has been unworthily depreciated by the wits in the controversy of Boyle and Bentley . 
Al Beithar , of Malaga , their greatest botanist , had travelled into Africa , Persia , and India . 
allows the original merit of the Arabians . 
that he had drawn most of his science , perhaps the transmutation of metals , from the ancient sages . 
rejects the claim of the Arabians as inventors of the science of chemistry . 
Confident in the riches of their native tongue , the Arabians disdained the study of any foreign idiom . 
The influence of truth and reason is of a less ambiguous complexion . 
The philosophers of Athens and Rome enjoyed the blessings , and asserted the rights , of civil and religious freedom . 
The instinct of superstition was alarmed by the introduction even of the abstract sciences and the more rigid doctors of the law condemned the rash and pernicious curiosity of Almamon . 
To the thirst of martyrdom , the vision of paradise , and the belief of predestination , we must ascribe the invincible enthusiasm of the prince and people . 
Yet the foolish vanity of the Greeks was jealous of their studies , and reluctantly imparted the sacred fire to the Barbarians of the East . 
mentions a Syriac version of Homer's two poems , by Theophilus , a Christian Maronite of Mount Libanus , who professed astronomy at Roha or Edessa towards the end of the viiith century . 
His work would be a literary curiosity . 
I have read somewhere , but I do not believe , that Plutarch's Lives were translated into Turkish for the use of Mahomet the Second . 
which was composed in the youth of that wonderful linguist . 
At present , in the maturity of his taste and judgment , he would perhaps abate of the fervent , and even partial , praise which he has bestowed on the Orientals . 
Each of these sects would agree , that in two instances out of three , his contempt was reasonable . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque , Orientale , p . 
, who relates how manfully the emperor refused a mathematician to the instances and offers of the caliph Almamon . 
In the bloody conflict of the Ommiades and Abbassides , the Greeks had stolen the opportunity of avenging their wrongs and enlarging their limits . 
His encampment on the opposite heights of Chrysopolis , or Scutari , informed Irene , in her palace of Constantinople , of the loss of her troops and provinces . 
But when the unnatural mother of Constantine was deposed and banished , her successor , Nicephorus , resolved to obliterate this badge of servitude and disgrace . 
The epistle of the emperor to the caliph was pointed with an allusion to the game of chess , which had already spread from Persia to Greece . 
considered you as a rook , and herself as a pawn . 
That pusillanimous female submitted to pay a tribute , the double of which she ought to have exacted from the Barbarians . 
Restore therefore the fruits of your injustice , or abide the determination of the sword . 
At these words the ambassadors cast a bundle of swords before the foot of the throne . 
He then dictated an epistle of tremendous brevity In the name of the most merciful God , Harun al Rashid , commander of the faithful , to Nicephorus , the Roman dog . 
I have read thy letter , O thou son of an unbelieving mother . 
Thou shalt not hear , thou shalt behold , my reply . 
Yet the emperor was ashamed of submission , and the caliph was resolved on victory . 
The progress of desolation by sea and land , from the Euxine to the Isle of Cyprus , compelled the emperor Nicephorus to retract his haughty defiance . 
Yet this plurality of lords might contribute to remove the dishonor of the Roman name . 
See the reign and character of Harun Al Rashid , in the Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
, under his proper title and in the relative articles to which M. D'Herbelot refers . 
That learned collector has shown much taste in stripping the Oriental chronicles of their instructive and amusing anecdotes . 
The Arabian Nights represent Harun al Rashid as almost stationary in Bagdad . 
M. de Tournefort , in his coasting voyage from Constantinople to Trebizond , passed a night at Heraclea or Eregri . 
We have a separate history of Heraclea in the fragments of Memnon , which are preserved by Photius . 
Chapter LII More Conquests By The Arabs . 
Under the reign of Almamon at Bagdad , of Michael the Stammerer at Constantinople , the islands of Crete and Sicily were subdued by the Arabs . 
As the subjects and sectaries of the white party , they might lawfully invade the dominions of the black caliphs . 
Their clamors accused his madness or treachery . 
Of what do you complain ? replied the crafty emir . 
I have brought you to a land flowing with milk and honey . 
Here is your true country repose from your toils , and forget the barren place of your nativity . 
And our wives and children ? Your beauteous captives will supply the place of your wives , and in their embraces you will soon become the fathers of a new progeny . 
The Saracens of Crete soon repaired the loss of their navy and the timbers of Mount Ida were launched into the main . 
During a hostile period of one hundred and thirty eight years , the princes of Constantinople attacked these licentious corsairs with fruitless curses and ineffectual arms . 
Although Crete is styled by Homer , by Dionysius , I cannot conceive that mountainous island to surpass , or even to equal , in fertility the greater part of Spain . 
The loss of Crete and Sicily is related , l . 
But the modern Greeks are such notorious plagiaries , that I should only quote a plurality of names . 
had described the ravages of the Andalusian Arabs in Egypt , but has forgot to connect them with the conquest of Crete . 
The loss of Sicily was occasioned by an act of superstitious rigor . 
An amorous youth , who had stolen a nun from her cloister , was sentenced by the emperor to the amputation of his tongue . 
Syracuse preserved about fifty years the faith which she had sworn to Christ and to Caesar . 
In the last and fatal siege , her citizens displayed some remnant of the spirit which had formerly resisted the powers of Athens and Carthage . 
His pathetic , and not inelegant , complaint may be read as the epitaph of his country . 
From the Roman conquest to this final calamity , Syracuse , now dwindled to the primitive Isle of Ortygea , had insensibly declined . 
and the captives must outnumber the seventeen thousand Christians , who were transported from the sack of Tauromenium into African servitude . 
Had the Mahometans been united , Italy must have fallen an easy and glorious accession to the empire of the prophet . 
This history of the loss of Sicily is no longer extant . 
has added some circumstances from the Italian chronicles . 
The splendid and interesting tragedy of Tancrede would adapt itself much better to this epoch , than to the date which Voltaire himself has chosen . 
But I must gently reproach the poet for infusing into the Greek subjects the spirit of modern knights and ancient republicans . 
mentions the loss of Syracuse and the triumph of the demons . 
and in the first volume of Muratori's Scriptores Rerum Italicarum . 
has added some important facts . 
In the sufferings of prostrate Italy , the name of Rome awakens a solemn and mournful recollection . 
The gates and ramparts were guarded by a trembling people but the tombs and temples of St . 
Paul were left exposed in the suburbs of the Vatican and of the Ostian way . 
The Christian idols were stripped of their costly offerings a silver altar was torn away from the shrine of St . 
Peter and if the bodies or the buildings were left entire , their deliverance must be imputed to the haste , rather than the scruples , of the Saracens . 
The same danger still impended on the heads of the Roman people and their domestic force was unequal to the assault of an African emir . 
The public defence had been long neglected , not from the presumption of peace , but from the distress and poverty of the times . 
was accused of declaring , Quia Franci nihil nobis boni faciunt , neque adjutorium praebent , sed magis quae nostra sunt violenter tollunt . 
Quare non advocamus Graecos , et cum eis foedus pacis componentes , Francorum regem et gentem de nostro regno et dominatione expellimus ? Anastasius in Leone IV . 
appears to be remarkably struck with the character of Pope Leo IV . 
I have borrowed his general expression , but the sight of the forum has furnished me with a more distinct and lively image . 
But the storm , which had been delayed , soon burst upon them with redoubled violence . 
With his principal companions , Caesarius was invited to the Lateran palace , and the dexterous pontiff affected to inquire their errand , and to accept with joy and surprise their providential succor . 
The city bands , in arms , attended their father to Ostia , where he reviewed and blessed his generous deliverers . 
They kissed his feet , received the communion with martial devotion , and listened to the prayer of Leo , that the same God who had supported St . 
Paul on the waves of the sea , would strengthen the hands of his champions against the adversaries of his holy name . 
After a similar prayer , and with equal resolution , the Moslems advanced to the attack of the Christian galleys , which preserved their advantageous station along the coast . 
The Christians were sheltered in a friendly harbor , while the Africans were scattered and dashed in pieces among the rocks and islands of a hostile shore . 
Those who escaped from shipwreck and hunger neither found , nor deserved , mercy at the hands of their implacable pursuers . 
The sword and the gibbet reduced the dangerous multitude of captives and the remainder was more usefully employed , to restore the sacred edifices which they had attempted to subvert . 
The reign of Leo the Fourth was employed in the defence and ornament of the Roman state . 
The churches were renewed and embellished near four thousand pounds of silver were consecrated to repair the losses of St . 
Generale des Huns , tom . 
de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne , sous la Domination des Arabs , tom . 
I observe , and cannot reconcile , the difference of these writers in the succession of the Aglabites . 
has illustrated Centumcellae , Leopolis , Civitas Leonina , and the other places of the Roman duchy . 
The Arabs and the Greeks are alike silent concerning the invasion of Rome by the Africans . 
Our authentic and contemporary guide for the popes of the ixth century is Anastasius , librarian of the Roman church . 
and if a great part consist of superstitious trifles , we must blame or command his hero , who was much oftener in a church than in a camp . 
The emperor Theophilus , son of Michael the Stammerer , was one of the most active and high spirited princes who reigned at Constantinople during the middle age . 
In offensive or defensive war , he marched in person five times against the Saracens , formidable in his attack , esteemed by the enemy in his losses and defeats . 
These solicitations determined the emperor to wound his pride in so sensible a part . 
Sozopetra was levelled with the ground , the Syrian prisoners were marked or mutilated with ignominious cruelty , and a thousand female captives were forced away from the adjacent territory . 
In the revenge of his injury , the caliph prepared to retaliate a similar affront . 
The name of Amorium was inscribed on the shields of the Saracens and their three armies were again united under the walls of the devoted city . 
It had been proposed by the wisest counsellors , to evacuate Amorium , to remove the inhabitants , and to abandon the empty structures to the vain resentment of the Barbarians . 
The emperor embraced the more generous resolution of defending , in a siege and battle , the country of his ancestors . 
The Arabs were broken , but it was by the swords of thirty thousand Persians , who had obtained service and settlement in the Byzantine empire . 
They breathed at Dorylaeum , at the distance of three days and Theophilus , reviewing his trembling squadrons , forgave the common flight both of the prince and people . 
They had nearly been the witnesses of his shame . 
Mutual necessity could sometimes extort the exchange or ransom of prisoners but in the national and religious conflict of the two empires , peace was without confidence , and war without mercy . 
To a point of honor Motassem had sacrificed a flourishing city , two hundred thousand lives , and the property of millions . 
Amorium is seldom mentioned by the old geographers , and to tally forgotten in the Roman Itineraries . 
The city rose again from its ruins , if we should read Ammeria , not Anguria , in the text of the Nubian geographer . 
Four thousand four hundred and sixty Moslems , eight hundred women and children , one hundred confederates , were exchanged for an equal number of Greeks . 
They passed each other in the middle of the bridge , and when they reached their respective friends , they shouted Allah Acbar , and Kyrie Eleison . 
the most illustrious of them , the forty two martyrs , were beheaded by the caliph's order . 
These Saracens were indeed treated with peculiar severity as pirates and renegadoes . 
With Motassem , the eighth of the Abbassides , the glory of his family and nation expired . 
The Turkish guards stood in arms round the throne of their benefactor , and their chiefs usurped the dominion of the palace and the provinces . 
To this throne , yet streaming with a father's blood , Montasser was triumphantly led but in a reign of six months , he found only the pangs of a guilty conscience . 
But the nations of the East had been taught to trample on the successors of the prophet and the blessings of domestic peace were obtained by the relaxation of strength and discipline . 
So uniform are the mischiefs of military despotism , that I seem to repeat the story of the praetorians of Rome . 
Adstantium aliquis misero colaphos continuo ingerebat , quos ille objectis manibus avertere studebat . 
Quo facto traditus tortori fuit , totoque triduo cibo potuque prohibitus . 
John the Baptist , and of the angel Gabriel . 
The Carmathians were ripe for rebellion , since they disclaimed the title of the house of Abbas , and abhorred the worldly pomp of the caliphs of Bagdad . 
They were susceptible of discipline , since they vowed a blind and absolute submission to their Imam , who was called to the prophetic office by the voice of God and the people . 
In a daring inroad beyond the Tigris , Abu Taher advanced to the gates of the capital with no more than five hundred horse . 
By the special order of Moctader , the bridges had been broken down , and the person or head of the rebel was expected every hour by the commander of the faithful . 
His lieutenant , from a motive of fear or pity , apprised Abu Taher of his danger , and recommended a speedy escape . 
They obeyed without a murmur . 
Relate , continued the imam , what you have seen before the evening your general shall be chained among my dogs . 
Before the evening , the camp was surprised , and the menace was executed . 
After this deed of sacrilege and cruelty , they continued to infest the confines of Irak , Syria , and Egypt but the vital principle of enthusiasm had withered at the root . 
The sect of the Carmathians may be considered as the second visible cause of the decline and fall of the empire of the caliphs . 
I find some inconsistencies of theology and chronology , which it would not be easy nor of much importance to reconcile . 
Note Compare Von Hammer , Geschichte der Assassinen , p . 
M. Chapter LII More Conquests By The Arabs . 
Part V. The third and most obvious cause was the weight and magnitude of the empire itself . 
exhibit a general chronology of the East , interspersed with some historical anecdotes but his attachment to national blood has sometimes confounded the order of time and place . 
After the revolt of Spain from the temporal and spiritual supremacy of the Abbassides , the first symptoms of disobedience broke forth in the province of Africa . 
Ibrahim , the son of Aglab , the lieutenant of the vigilant and rigid Harun , bequeathed to the dynasty of the Aglabites the inheritance of his name and power . 
for the profession of a robber . 
Salt , among the Orientals , is the symbol of hospitality , and the pious robber immediately retired without spoil or damage . 
On his march towards Bagdad , the conqueror was arrested by a fever . 
If I die , said he , your master is delivered from his fears . 
If I live , this must determine between us . 
If I am vanquished , I can return without reluctance to the homely fare of my youth . 
The provinces of Syria and Egypt were twice dismembered by their Turkish slaves of the race of Toulon and Ilkshid . 
Their sons were educated in the vices of kings and both Egypt and Syria were recovered and possessed by the Abbassides during an interval of thirty years . 
In the decline of their empire , Mesopotamia , with the important cities of Mosul and Aleppo , was occupied by the Arabian princes of the tribe of Hamadan . 
This founder , Edris , the son of Edris , instead of living to the improbable age of years , A. H. , died A. H. , in the prime of manhood . 
The dynasty ended A. H. , twenty three years sooner than it is fixed by the historian of the Huns . 
See the accurate Annals of Abulfeda p . 
has exhausted the Toulunides and Ikshidites of Egypt , and thrown some light on the Carmathians and Hamadanites . 
who spoke to the people , or conversed with the learned the last who , in the expense of his household , represented the wealth and magnificence of the ancient caliphs . 
After him , the lords of the Eastern world were reduced to the most abject misery , and exposed to the blows and insults of a servile condition . 
Their idleness was exercised by faction and controversy . 
His palace was pillaged , his eyes were put out , and the mean ambition of the Abbassides aspired to the vacant station of danger and disgrace . 
In the school of adversity , the luxurious caliphs resumed the grave and abstemious virtues of the primitive times . 
But their misfortunes had been imbittered by the triumph of the Fatimites , the real or spurious progeny of Ali . 
Hic est ultimus chalifah qui multum atque saepius pro concione peroraret . 
Fuit etiam ultimus qui otium cum eruditis et facetis hominibus fallere hilariterque agere soleret . 
Ultimus tandem chalifarum cui sumtus , stipendia , reditus , et thesauri , culinae , caeteraque omnis aulica pompa priorum chalifarum ad instar comparata fuerint . 
Videbimus enim paullo post quam indignis et servilibius ludibriis exagitati , quam ad humilem fortunam altimumque contemptum abjecti fuerint hi quondam potentissimi totius terrarum Orientalium orbis domini . 
I have given this passage as the manner and tone of Abulfeda , but the cast of Latin eloquence belongs more properly to Reiske . 
has supplied me with the most interesting facts of this paragraph . 
Their master , on a similar occasion , showed himself of a more indulgent and tolerating spirit . 
Ahmed Ebn Hanbal , the head of one of the four orthodox sects , was born at Bagdad A. H. , and died there A. H. . 
He fought and suffered in the dispute concerning the creation of the Koran . 
But when the Eastern world was convulsed and broken , the Greeks were roused from their lethargy by the hopes of conquest and revenge . 
His military genius was displayed in the conduct and success of the enterprise , which had so often failed with loss and dishonor . 
The Saracens were confounded by the landing of his troops on safe and level bridges , which he cast from the vessels to the shore . 
The whole island was subdued in the capital , and a submissive people accepted , without resistance , the baptism of the conqueror . 
Constantinople applauded the long forgotten pomp of a triumph but the Imperial diadem was the sole reward that could repay the services , or satisfy the ambition , of Nicephorus . 
Notwithstanding the insinuation of Zonaras , c . 
The Acroases of Theodorus , de expugnatione Cretae , miserable iambics , relate the whole campaign . 
Whoever would fairly estimate the merit of the poetic deacon , may read the description of the slinging a jackass into the famishing city . 
The poet is in a transport at the wit of the general , and revels in the luxury of antithesis . 
M. A Greek Life of St . 
Nicon the Armenian was found in the Sforza library , and translated into Latin by the Jesuit Sirmond , for the use of Cardinal Baronius . 
This contemporary legend casts a ray of light on Crete and Peloponnesus in the th century . 
He found the newly recovered island , foedis detestandae Agarenorum superstitionis vestigiis adhuc plenam ac refertam . 
but the victorious missionary , perhaps with some carnal aid , ad baptismum omnes veraeque fidei disciplinam pepulit . 
Ecclesiis per totam insulam aedificatis , c . 
They reigned as the guardians and colleagues of her infant sons and the twelve years of their military command form the most splendid period of the Byzantine annals . 
After they had forced and secured the narrow passes of Mount Amanus , the two Roman princes repeatedly carried their arms into the heart of Syria . 
But the walls of the city withstood the strokes of their battering rams and the besiegers pitched their tents on the neighboring mountain of Jaushan . 
Since the days of Heraclius , the Euphrates , below the passage of Mount Taurus , had been impervious , and almost invisible , to the Greeks . 
His ardor was quickened by the desire of grasping the virgin treasures of Ecbatana , a well known name , under which the Byzantine writer has concealed the capital of the Abbassides . 
The consternation of the fugitives had already diffused the terror of his name but the fancied riches of Bagdad had already been dissipated by the avarice and prodigality of domestic tyrants . 
The prayers of the people , and the stern demands of the lieutenant of the Bowides , required the caliph to provide for the defence of the city . 
The emir was inexorable the furniture of the palace was sold and the paltry price of forty thousand pieces of gold was instantly consumed in private luxury . 
Yet the powers of the East had been bent , not broken , by this transient hurricane . 
Of these extensive conquests , Antioch , with the cities of Cilicia and the Isle of Cyprus , was alone restored , a permanent and useful accession to the Roman empire . 
Liutprand was disposed to depreciate the Greek power , yet he owns that Nicephorus led against Assyria an army of eighty thousand men . 
Of the former , Leo observes , urbus munita et illustris of the latter , clara atque conspicua opibusque et pecore , reliquis ejus provinciis urbibus atque oppidis longe praestans . 
Ut et Ecbatana pergeret Agarenorumque regiam everteret . 
or Tauris , which has been commonly mistaken for that city . 
to the royal seat of Mithridates , king of Pontus . 
Note The whole original work of Leo the Deacon has been published by Hase , and is inserted in the new edition of the Byzantine historians . 
M Lassen has added to the Arabian authorities of this period some extracts from Kemaleddin's account of the treaty for the surrender of Aleppo . 
M. Chapter LIII Fate Of The Eastern Empire . 
Part I. Fate Of The Eastern Empire In The Tenth Century . 
Pride And Power Of The Emperors . 
Tactics Of The Greeks , Arabs , And Franks . 
Loss Of The Latin Tongue . 
Studies And Solitude Of The Greeks . 
A ray of historic light seems to beam from the darkness of the tenth century . 
In the first of these works he minutely describes the pompous ceremonies of the church and palace of Constantinople , according to his own practice , and that of his predecessors . 
In the second , he attempts an accurate survey of the provinces , the themes , as they were then denominated , both of Europe and Asia . 
In the fourth , of the administration of the empire , he reveals the secrets of the Byzantine policy , in friendly or hostile intercourse with the nations of the earth . 
The literary labors of the age , the practical systems of law , agriculture , and history , might redound to the benefit of the subject and the honor of the Macedonian princes . 
The sixty books of the Basilics , the code and pandects of civil jurisprudence , were gradually framed in the three first reigns of that prosperous dynasty . 
The epithet of Porphyrogenitus , born in the purple , is elegantly defined by Claudian Ardua privatos nescit fortuna Penates Et regnum cum luce dedit . 
Cognata potestas Excepit Tyrio venerabile pignus in ostro . 
And Ducange , in his Greek and Latin Glossaries , produces many passages expressive of the same idea . 
with such lavish praise as editors never fail to bestow on the worthy or worthless object of their toil . 
See , in the first volume of Banduri's Imperium Orientale , Constantinus de Thematibus , p . 
, de Administrando Imperio , p . 
and the sense is illustrated by two maps of William Deslisle , the prince of geographers till the appearance of the greater D'Anville . 
yet the text is still corrupt and mutilated , the version is still obscure and faulty . 
as historical civilians , may be usefully consulted xli . 
in seven tomes in folio iv . 
other books have been since discovered , and are inserted in Gerard Meerman's Novus Thesaurus Juris Civ . 
novels , or new laws , of Leo , may be found in the Corpus Juris Civilis . 
But the Tactics of Leo and Constantine are mingled with the baser alloy of the age in which they lived . 
It was destitute of original genius they implicitly transcribe the rules and maxims which had been confirmed by victories . 
Of these nations , the Franks alone were qualified to observe in their turn , and to describe , the metropolis of the East . 
This biographer of the saints indulged himself in a loose paraphrase of the sense or nonsense of more ancient acts . 
His Greek rhetoric is again paraphrased in the Latin version of Surius , and scarcely a thread can be now visible of the original texture . 
A good edition of all the Scriptores Tactici would be a task not unworthy of a scholar . 
His industry might discover some new Mss. , and his learning might illustrate the military history of the ancients . 
But this scholar should be likewise a soldier and alas ! Quintus Icilius is no more . 
Note M. Guichardt , author of Memoires Militaires sur les Grecs et sur les Romains . 
See Gibbon's Extraits Raisonnees de mes Lectures , Misc . 
M After observing that the demerit of the Cappadocians rose in proportion to their rank and riches , he inserts a more pointed epigram , which is ascribed to Demodocus . 
The sting is precisely the same with the French epigram against Freron Un serpent mordit Jean Freron Eh bien ? Le serpent en mourut . 
The Legatio Liutprandi Episcopi Cremonensis ad Nicephorum Phocam is inserted in Muratori , Scriptores Rerum Italicarum , tom . 
After the final division between the sons of Theodosius , the swarms of Barbarians from Scythia and Germany over spread the provinces and extinguished the empire of ancient Rome . 
But the possession of these new conquests was transient and precarious and almost a moiety of the Eastern empire was torn away by the arms of the Saracens . 
The vanity of the Greek princes most eagerly grasped the shadow of conquest and the memory of lost dominion . 
In the decline of the Arabian empire , the successors of Constantine might indulge their pride in more solid advantages . 
See Constantine de Thematibus , in Banduri , tom . 
Some etymologies are attempted for the Opiscian , Optimatian , Thracesian , themes . 
Her treasures might attract , but her virgin strength had repelled , and still promised to repel , the audacious invasion of the Persian and Bulgarian , the Arab and the Russian . 
The provinces that still adhered to the empire were repeopled and enriched by the misfortunes of those which were irrecoverably lost . 
In this irruption , the country and the inhabitants were transformed the Grecian blood was contaminated and the proudest nobles of Peloponnesus were branded with the names of foreigners and slaves . 
The siege of Patras was formed by a singular concurrence of the Sclavonians of Peloponnesus and the Saracens of Africa . 
In their last distress , a pious fiction of the approach of the praetor of Corinth revived the courage of the citizens . 
The shrine which contained his relics was decorated with the trophies of victory , and the captive race was forever devoted to the service and vassalage of the metropolitan church of Patras . 
By the revolt of two Sclavonian tribes , in the neighborhood of Helos and Lacedaemon , the peace of the peninsula was often disturbed . 
From these strangers the Imperial geographer has accurately distinguished a domestic , and perhaps original , race , who , in some degree , might derive their blood from the much injured Helots . 
The freemen of Laconia assumed the character of Romans , and long adhered to the religion of the Greeks . 
and a thousand horses with their arms and trappings . 
in a style as barbarous as the idea , which he confirms , as usual , by a foolish epigram . 
to enumerate the inroads of the Sclavi , and to fix the date of this petty geographer . 
de Administrando Imperio , l . 
The rock of Leucate was the southern promontory of his island and diocese . 
and the Spectator , he might have been the richest prelate of the Greek church . 
The gifts which a rich and generous matron of Peloponnesus presented to the emperor Basil , her adopted son , were doubtless fabricated in the Grecian looms . 
A single , or even a double or treble thread was thought sufficient for ordinary sale but the union of six threads composed a piece of stronger and more costly workmanship . 
Among the colors , he celebrates , with affectation of eloquence , the fiery blaze of the scarlet , and the softer lustre of the green . 
It was first introduced into Sicily by the Normans and this emigration of trade distinguishes the victory of Roger from the uniform and fruitless hostilities of every age . 
The decay of the looms of Sicily may be ascribed to the troubles of the island , and the competition of the Italian cities . 
In the year thirteen hundred and fourteen , Lucca alone , among her sister republics , enjoyed the lucrative monopoly . 
The northern climates are less propitious to the education of the silkworm but the industry of France and England is supplied and enriched by the productions of Italy and China . 
who allows himself to use many technical or barbarous words barbarous , says he . 
Ducange labors on some but he was not a weaver . 
is a copy of those of Greece . 
Nicetas in Manuel , l . 
He describes these Greeks as skilled . 
Hugo Falcandus styles them nobiles officinas . 
The Arabs had not introduced silk , though they had planted canes and made sugar in the plain of Palermo . 
See the Life of Castruccio Casticani , not by Machiavel , but by his more authentic biographer Nicholas Tegrimi . 
but it is to the revocation of the edict of Nantes that we owe the Spitalfields colony . 
Chapter LIII Fate Of The Eastern Empire . 
From every province of Europe and Asia the rivulets of gold and silver discharged into the Imperial reservoir a copious and perennial stream . 
A Jewish traveller , who visited the East in the twelfth century , is lost in his admiration of the Byzantine riches . 
The mass of treasure that was saved by Theodora and Basil the Second will suggest a splendid , though indefinite , idea of their supplies and resources . 
which he had buried in the subterraneous vaults of the palace . 
Such accumulation of treasure is rejected by the theory and practice of modern policy and we are more apt to compute the national riches by the use and abuse of the public credit . 
Voyage de Benjamin de Tudele , tom . 
The Hebrew text has been translated into French by that marvellous child Baratier , who has added a volume of crude learning . 
The errors and fictions of the Jewish rabbi are not a sufficient ground to deny the reality of his travels . 
to consider this work a mere compilation , and to doubt the reality of the travels . 
instead of pounds , uses the more classic appellation of talents , which , in a literal sense and strict computation , would multiply sixty fold the treasure of Basil . 
Sophia , and the gardens , which descended by many a terrace to the shores of the Propontis . 
The economy of the emperor Theophilus allowed a more free and ample scope for his domestic luxury and splendor . 
The square before the sigma was decorated with a fountain , and the margin of the basin was lined and encompassed with plates of silver . 
He enjoyed this tumultuous spectacle from a throne resplendent with gold and gems , which was raised by a marble staircase to the height of a lofty terrace . 
A matron of Peloponnesus , who had cherished the infant fortunes of Basil the Macedonian , was excited by tenderness or vanity to visit the greatness of her adopted son . 
During her lifetime , she bestowed the greater part of her estates in Peloponnesus , and her testament instituted Leo , the son of Basil , her universal heir . 
From this example of a private matron , we may estimate the wealth and magnificence of the emperors . 
For a copious and minute description of the Imperial palace , see the Constantinop . 
of Ducange , the Tillemont of the middle ages . 
Never has laborious Germany produced two antiquarians more laborious and accurate than these two natives of lively France . 
The Byzantine palace surpasses the Capitol , the palace of Pergamus , the Rufinian wood , the temple of Adrian at Cyzicus , the pyramids , the Pharus , c . 
ascribed to Julian , ex praefect of Egypt . 
The last abomination of the abominable slave trade ! Yet I am surprised to find , in the xth century , such active speculations of commerce in Lorraine . 
and the union produces the sonorous title of Sebastocrator . 
The emperor alone could assume the purple or red buskins , and the close diadem or tiara , which imitated the fashion of the Persian kings . 
Instead of red , the buskins of the Sebastocrator and Caesar were green and on their open coronets or crowns , the precious gems were more sparingly distributed . 
Beside and below the Caesar the fancy of Alexius created the Panhypersebastos and the Protosebastos , whose sound and signification will satisfy a Grecian ear . 
The five titles of , . 
of Anna Comnena , who , except in filial piety , may be compared to Mademoiselle de Montpensier . 
In her awful reverence for titles and forms , she styles her father , the inventor of this royal art . 
See Reiske , and Ceremoniale , p . 
Ducange has given a learned dissertation on the crowns of Constantinople , Rome , France , c . 
but of his thirty four models , none exactly tally with Anne's description . 
But in every monarchy the substantial powers of government must be divided and exercised by the ministers of the palace and treasury , the fleet and army . 
In a monarchy , which refers every object to the person of the prince , the care and ceremonies of the palace form the most respectable department . 
The Curopalata , so illustrious in the age of Justinian , was supplanted by the Protovestiare , whose primitive functions were limited to the custody of the wardrobe . 
From thence his jurisdiction was extended over the numerous menials of pomp and luxury and he presided with his silver wand at the public and private audience . 
The introductor and interpreter of foreign ambassadors were the great Chiauss and the Dragoman , two names of Turkish origin , and which are still familiar to the Sublime Porte . 
Of these officers , and of many more whom it would be useless to enumerate , the civil and military hierarchy was framed . 
the Imperial ink , which is still visible on some original acts , was a mixture of vermilion and cinnabar , or purple . 
The emperor's guardians , who shared in this prerogative , always marked in green ink the indiction and the month . 
A corruption from the Latin Comes stabuli , or the French Connetable . 
In a military sense , it was used by the Greeks in the eleventh century , at least as early as in France . 
It was directly borrowed from the Normans . 
In the xiith century , Giannone reckons the admiral of Sicily among the great officers . 
has been illustrated by the notes of Goar , and the three books of Gretser , a learned Jesuit . 
Chapter LIII Fate Of The Eastern Empire . 
In his transactions of business , Liutprand , bishop of Cremona , asserted the free spirit of a Frank and the dignity of his master Otho . 
Yet his sincerity cannot disguise the abasement of his first audience . 
When he approached the throne , the birds of the golden tree began to warble their notes , which were accompanied by the roarings of the two lions of gold . 
With his two companions Liutprand was compelled to bow and to fall prostrate and thrice to touch the ground with his forehead . 
At his first audience , he offered the gifts of his master , slaves , and golden vases , and costly armor . 
On the eve of these processions , the gracious or devout intention of the monarch was proclaimed by the heralds . 
The task of applause was not abandoned to the rude and spontaneous voices of the crowd . 
From either side they echoed in responsive melody the praises of the emperor their poets and musicians directed the choir , and long life and victory were the burden of every song . 
The respectful salutation of carrying the hand to the mouth , ad os , is the root of the Latin word adoro , adorare . 
in his Titles of Honor . 
It seems , from the st book of Herodotus , to be of Persian origin . 
together , and singly , climbed , stood , played , descended , c . 
The want of the Latin 'V' obliged the Greeks to employ their 'beta' nor do they regard quantity . 
Till he recollected the true language , these strange sentences might puzzle a professor . 
I wish he had preserved the words , however corrupt , of their English acclamation . 
For all these ceremonies , see the professed work of Constantine Porphyrogenitus with the notes , or rather dissertations , of his German editors , Leich and Reiske . 
For the rank of standing courtiers , p . 
, for the adoration , except on Sundays , p . 
the factions and Hippodrome , p . 
the Gothic games , p . 
, not much more information is scattered over the work . 
The aged monarch , in his instructions to his son , reveals the secret maxims of policy and pride and suggests the most decent reasons for refusing these insolent and unreasonable demands . 
Every animal , says the discreet emperor , is prompted by the distinction of language , religion , and manners . 
A just regard to the purity of descent preserves the harmony of public and private life but the mixture of foreign blood is the fruitful source of disorder and discord . 
This perpetual interdict was ratified by the fabulous sanction of the great Constantine . 
The ambassadors of the nations , more especially of the unbelieving nations , were solemnly admonished , that such strange alliances had been condemned by the founder of the church and city . 
The irrevocable law was inscribed on the altar of St . 
Sophia and the impious prince who should stain the majesty of the purple was excluded from the civil and ecclesiastical communion of the Romans . 
To these objections three answers were prepared , which solved the difficulty and established the law . 
I. The deed and the guilt of Constantine Copronymus were acknowledged . 
The Isaurian heretic , who sullied the baptismal font , and declared war against the holy images , had indeed embraced a Barbarian wife . 
By this impious alliance he accomplished the measure of his crimes , and was devoted to the just censure of the church and of posterity . 
Romanus could not be alleged as a legitimate emperor he was a plebeian usurper , ignorant of the laws , and regardless of the honor , of the monarchy . 
His son Christopher , the father of the bride , was the third in rank in the college of princes , at once the subject and the accomplice of a rebellious parent . 
The Bulgarians were sincere and devout Christians and the safety of the empire , with the redemption of many thousand captives , depended on this preposterous alliance . 
For the marriage of his own son with the daughter of Hugo , king of Italy , a more honorable defence is contrived by the wise Porphyrogenitus . 
Constantine , the great and holy , esteemed the fidelity and valor of the Franks and his prophetic spirit beheld the vision of their future greatness . 
They alone were excepted from the general prohibition Hugo , king of France , was the lineal descendant of Charlemagne and his daughter Bertha inherited the prerogatives of her family and nation . 
The voice of truth and malice insensibly betrayed the fraud or error of the Imperial court . 
His father was a private noble and if Bertha derived her female descent from the Carlovingian line , every step was polluted with illegitimacy or vice . 
The example of maternal incontinence was copied by the king of Italy and the three favorite concubines of Hugo were decorated with the classic names of Venus , Juno , and Semele . 
The eldest was bestowed , as the pledge of peace , on the eldest son of the great Otho , who had solicited this alliance with arms and embassies . 
In the nuptials of her sister Anne , every prejudice was lost , and every consideration of dignity was superseded , by the stronger argument of necessity and fear . 
The xiiith chapter , de Administratione Imperii , may be explained and rectified by the Familiae Byzantinae of Ducange . 
Yet this Egyptian wife was the daughter of a long line of kings . 
whether the triumvir ever dared to celebrate his marriage either with Roman or Egyptian rites . 
Have I observed elsewhere , that this Jewish beauty was at this time above fifty years of age ? The judicious Racine has most discreetly suppressed both her age and her country . 
Constantine was made to praise the the Franks , with whom he claimed a private and public alliance . 
are highly delighted with these compliments . 
exhibits a pedigree and life of the illustrious King Hugo . 
A more correct idea may be formed from the Criticism of Pagi , the Annals of Muratori , and the Abridgment of St . 
for the marriage of the younger Bertha , see Hist . 
for the incontinence of the elder , dulcis exercipio Hymenaei , l . 
for the virtues and vices of Hugo , l . 
Yet it must not be forgot , that the bishop of Cremona was a lover of scandal . 
Licet illa Imperatrix Graeca sibi et aliis fuisset satis utilis , et optima , c . 
, is the preamble of an inimical writer , apud Pagi , tom . 
Her marriage and principal actions may be found in Muratori , Pagi , and St . 
Marc , under the proper years . 
Nestor apud Levesque , tom . 
Pagi , Critica , A. D. , No. a singular concourse ! Wolodomir and Anne are ranked among the saints of the Russian church . 
Yet we know his vices , and are ignorant of her virtues . 
Henricus primus duxit uxorem Scythicam , Russam , filiam regis Jeroslai . 
An embassy of bishops was sent into Russia , and the father gratanter filiam cum multis donis misit . 
This event happened in the year . 
Voltaire might wonder at this alliance but he should not have owned his ignorance of the country , religion , c . 
, of Jeroslaus a name so conspicuous in the Russian annals . 
The legislative and executive powers were centred in the person of the monarch , and the last remains of the authority of the senate were finally eradicated by Leo the philosopher . 
Superstition rivetted their chains in the church of St . 
Sophia he was solemnly crowned by the patriarch at the foot of the altar , they pledged their passive and unconditional obedience to his government and family . 
Yet the exercise of boundless despotism is happily checked by the laws of nature and necessity . 
In proportion to his wisdom and virtue , the master of an empire is confined to the path of his sacred and laborious duty . 
ne senatus consulta amplius fiant , speaks the language of naked despotism . 
gives an idea of this oath so strong to the church , so weak to the people . 
Whatever titles a despot may assume , whatever claims he may assert , it is on the sword that he must ultimately depend to guard him against his foreign and domestic enemies . 
was occupied and disputed by the three great empires or nations of the Greeks , the Saracens , and the Franks . 
The command of the Mediterranean , from the mouth of the Tanais to the columns of Hercules , was always claimed , and often possessed , by the successors of Constantine . 
Since the time of the Peloponnesian and Punic wars , the sphere of action had not been enlarged and the science of naval architecture appears to have declined . 
The language of signals , so clear and copious in the naval grammar of the moderns , was imperfectly expressed by the various positions and colors of a commanding flag . 
Some estimate may be formed of the power of the Greek emperors , by the curious and minute detail of the armament which was prepared for the reduction of Crete . 
Their pay , most probably of a month , was computed at thirty four centenaries of gold , about one hundred and thirty six thousand pounds sterling . 
If we listen to the threats of Nicephorus to the ambassador of Otho , Nec est in mari domino tuo classium numerus . 
Navigantium fortitudo mihi soli inest , qui eum classibus aggrediar , bello maritimas ejus civitates demoliar et quae fluminibus sunt vicina redigam in favillam . 
He observes in another place , qui caeteris praestant Venetici sunt et Amalphitani . 
The two books , de Administrando Imperio , perpetually inculcate the same policy . 
relates to the Naumachia , or naval war . 
Even of fifteen and sixteen rows of oars , in the navy of Demetrius Poliorcetes . 
These were for real use the forty rows of Ptolemy Philadelphus were applied to a floating palace , whose tonnage , according to Dr . 
is compared as to with an English gun ship . 
The Dromones of Leo , c . 
The Byzantine historians are sometimes guilty of the same inaccuracy . 
He calmly praises the stratagem but the sailing round Peloponnesus is described by his terrified fancy as a circumnavigation of a thousand miles . 
He affirms that the news were transmitted in an indivisible moment of time . 
Miserable amplification , which , by saying too much , says nothing . 
How much more forcible and instructive would have been the definition of three , or six , or twelve hours ! See the Ceremoniale of Constantine Porphyrogenitus , l . 
The invention of the Greek fire did not , like that of gun powder , produce a total revolution in the art of war . 
To these liquid combustibles the city and empire of Constantine owed their deliverance and they were employed in sieges and sea fights with terrible effect . 
Whatever authority could enact was accomplished , at least in theory , by the camps and marches , the exercises and evolutions , the edicts and books , of the Byzantine monarch . 
Whatever art could produce from the forge , the loom , or the laboratory , was abundantly supplied by the riches of the prince , and the industry of his numerous workmen . 
Notwithstanding some transient success , the Greeks were sunk in their own esteem and that of their neighbors . 
But this political law was defeated by the opposition of the patriarch , the bishops , and the principal senators and they strenuously urged the canons of St . 
Basil , that all who were polluted by the bloody trade of a soldier should be separated , during three years , from the communion of the faithful . 
See the fifth , sixth , and seventh chapters , and , in the Tactics of Leo , with the corresponding passages in those of Constantine . 
Yet such were not the maxims of the Greeks and Romans , who despised the loose and distant practice of archery . 
Compare the passages of the Tactics , p . 
and , and the xiith with the xviiith chapter . 
the reproaches , nor does it appear that the same censures were less deserved in the next generation by the disciples of Constantine . 
who relate the design of Nicephorus , most unfortunately apply the epithet to the opposition of the patriarch . 
The subjects of the last caliphs had undoubtedly degenerated from the zeal and faith of the companions of the prophet . 
Their order of battle was a long square of two deep and solid lines the first of archers , the second of cavalry . 
The decline and fall of the caliphs countenanced this fearful opinion nor were there wanting , among the Mahometans and Christians , some obscure prophecies which prognosticated their alternate defeats . 
The xviith chapter of the tactics of the different nations is the most historical and useful of the whole collection of Leo . 
the Roman emperor was too frequently called upon to study . 
From this boundary of light and shade an impartial critic may commonly determine the date of the composition . 
but I cannot recollect the passage in which it is conveyed by this lively apothegm . 
Chapter LIII Fate Of The Eastern Empire . 
Their private wars , which overturned the fabric of government , fomented the martial spirit of the nation . 
who both lived before the Crusades . 
The Franks , says the emperor Constantine , are bold and valiant to the verge of temerity and their dauntless spirit is supported by the contempt of danger and death . 
In the field and in close onset , they press to the front , and rush headlong against the enemy , without deigning to compute either his numbers or their own . 
Their ranks are formed by the firm connections of consanguinity and friendship and their martial deeds are prompted by the desire of saving or revenging their dearest companions . 
In their eyes , a retreat is a shameful flight and flight is indelible infamy . 
A nation endowed with such high and intrepid spirit , must have been secure of victory if these advantages had not been counter balanced by many weighty defects . 
The decay of their naval power left the Greeks and Saracens in possession of the sea , for every purpose of annoyance and supply . 
Their independent spirit disdained the yoke of subordination , and abandoned the standard of their chief , if he attempted to keep the field beyond the term of their stipulation or service . 
On all sides they were open to the snares of an enemy less brave but more artful than themselves . 
They might be bribed , for the Barbarians were venal or surprised in the night , for they neglected the precautions of a close encampment or vigilant sentinels . 
The fatigues of a summer's campaign exhausted their strength and patience , and they sunk in despair if their voracious appetite was disappointed of a plentiful supply of wine and of food . 
It was the glory of the nobles of France , that , in their humble dwellings , war and rapine were the only pleasure , the sole occupation , of their lives . 
and the Lombards or Langobards . 
See likewise the xxvith Dissertation of Muratori de Antiquitatibus Italiae Medii Aevi . 
duris praetenditis armis , O Itali ? Potius vobis sacra pocula cordi Saepius et stomachum nitidis laxare saginis Elatasque domos rutilo fulcire metallo . 
as if he had despoiled a beautiful and blooming virgin , to enrich , or rather to expose , the deformity of a wrinkled and decrepit matron . 
The final revolt and separation of Italy was accomplished about two centuries after the conquests of Justinian , and from his reign we may date the gradual oblivion of the Latin tongue . 
They insulted the alien of the East who had renounced the dress and idiom of Romans and their reasonable practice will justify the frequent appellation of Greeks . 
But this contemptuous appellation was indignantly rejected by the prince and people to whom it was applied . 
Yet the specific title of Emperor of the Romans was not used at Constantinople , till it had been claimed by the French and German emperors of old Rome . 
Anastasius in Vitis Pontificum , in Muratori's Collection , tom . 
Theophilus one of the original triumvirs , has left an elegant , though diffuse , paraphrase of the Institutes . 
for the use of Italy and Africa . 
Abulpharagius assigns the viith Dynasty to the Franks or Romans , the viiith to the Greeks , the ixth to the Arabs . 
The Christian and ecclesiastical studies of Abulpharagius gave him some advantage over the more ignorant Moslems . 
Quia linguam , mores , vestesque mutastis , putavit Sanctissimus Papa . 
Constantine transplanted his Latins of Italy to a Greek city of Thrace they adopted the language and manners of the natives , who were confounded with them under the name of Romans . 
The kings of Constantinople , says the historian . 
like a true advocate , proceeds to doubt or deny the reality of the fire , and almost of the library . 
this Homer was burnt in the time of Basiliscus . 
In the ninth century we trace the first dawnings of the restoration of science . 
The Caesar Bardas , the uncle of Michael the Third , was the generous protector of letters , a title which alone has preserved his memory and excused his ambition . 
Whilst he exercised the office of protospathaire or captain of the guards , Photius was sent ambassador to the caliph of Bagdad . 
The tedious hours of exile , perhaps of confinement , were beguiled by the hasty composition of his Library , a living monument of erudition and criticism . 
have escaped the injuries of time . 
It can only mean Bagdad , the seat of the caliphs and the relation of his embassy might have been curious and instructive . 
But how did he procure his books ? A library so numerous could neither be found at Bagdad , nor transported with his baggage , nor preserved in his memory . 
Yet the last , however incredible , seems to be affirmed by Photius himself . 
gives a good account of the Myriobiblon . 
mention a commentary of Michael Psellus on twenty four plays of Menander , still extant in Ms. at Constantinople . 
and Michael has probably been confounded with Homerus Sellius , who wrote arguments to the comedies of Menander . 
In the xth century , Suidas quotes fifty plays , but he often transcribes the old scholiast of Aristophanes . 
Anna Comnena may boast of her Greek style , and Zonaras her contemporary , but not her flatterer , may add with truth . 
In our modern education , the painful though necessary attainment of two languages , which are no longer living , may consume the time and damp the ardor of the youthful student . 
But these advantages only tend to aggravate the reproach and shame of a degenerate people . 
In the revolution of ten centuries , not a single discovery was made to exalt the dignity or promote the happiness of mankind . 
Not a single idea has been added to the speculative systems of antiquity , and a succession of patient disciples became in their turn the dogmatic teachers of the next servile generation . 
Their prose is soaring to the vicious affectation of poetry their poetry is sinking below the flatness and insipidity of prose . 
The minds of the Greek were bound in the fetters of a base and imperious superstition which extends her dominion round the circle of profane science . 
To censure the Byzantine taste . 
strings the authorities of Aulus Gellius , Jerom , Petronius George Hamartolus , Longinus who give at once the precept and the example . 
The versus politici , those common prostitutes , as , from their easiness , they are styled by Leo Allatius , usually consist of fifteen syllables . 
They are used by Constantine Manasses , John Tzetzes , c . 
Bernard of the Latin , so St . 
John Damascenus in the viiith century is revered as the last father of the Greek , church . 
In all the pursuits of active and speculative life , the emulation of states and individuals is the most powerful spring of the efforts and improvements of mankind . 
From the North they were oppressed by nameless tribes of Barbarians , to whom they scarcely imparted the appellation of men . 
The language and religion of the more polished Arabs were an insurmountable bar to all social intercourse . 
Chapter LIV Origin And Doctrine Of The Paulicians . 
Part I. Origin And Doctrine Of The Paulicians . 
Their Persecution By The Greek Emperors . 
The Seeds , Character , And Consequences Of The Reformation . 
In the profession of Christianity , the variety of national characters may be clearly distinguished . 
In this passive and unanimous state the ecclesiastical rulers were relieved from the toil , or deprived of the pleasure , of persecution . 
Note Compare Hallam's Middle Ages , p . 
Mr. Hallam justly observes that this chapter appears to be accurate as well as luminous , and is at least far superior to any modern work on the subject . 
M. The Gnostics , who had distracted the infancy , were oppressed by the greatness and authority , of the church . 
These books became the measure of his studies and the rule of his faith and the Catholics , who dispute his interpretation , acknowledge that his text was genuine and sincere . 
But he attached himself with peculiar devotion to the writings and character of St . 
Paul the name of the Paulicians is derived by their enemies from some unknown and domestic teacher but I am confident that they gloried in their affinity to the apostle of the Gentiles . 
In the Gospel , and the Epistles of St . 
Paul , his faithful follower investigated the Creed of primitive Christianity and , whatever might be the success , a Protestant reader will applaud the spirit , of the inquiry . 
But if the Scriptures of the Paulicians were pure , they were not perfect . 
Their founders rejected the two Epistles of St . 
Peter , the apostle of the circumcision , whose dispute with their favorite for the observance of the law could not easily be forgiven . 
The Paulicians sincerely condemned the memory and opinions of the Manichaean sect , and complained of the injustice which impressed that invidious name on the simple votaries of St . 
In the time of Theodoret , the diocese of Cyrrhus , in Syria , contained eight hundred villages . 
In rejecting the second Epistle of St . 
but as such neglect is not imputed as a crime , the Greeks of the ixth century must have been careless of the credit and honor of the Revelations . 
This contention , which has not escaped the malice of Porphyry , supposes some error and passion in one or both of the apostles . 
Even in Africa , St . 
but he adds , without pity , Incendite omnes illas membranas and his advice had been rigorously followed . 
The objects which had been transformed by the magic of superstition , appeared to the eyes of the Paulicians in their genuine and naked colors . 
An image made without hands was the common workmanship of a mortal artist , to whose skill alone the wood and canvas must be indebted for their merit or value . 
The miraculous relics were a heap of bones and ashes , destitute of life or virtue , or of any relation , perhaps , with the person to whom they were ascribed . 
They indulged a convenient latitude for the interpretation of Scripture and as often as they were pressed by the literal sense , they could escape to the intricate mazes of figure and allegory . 
Their belief and their trust was in the Father , of Christ , of the human soul , and of the invisible world . 
The six capital errors of the Paulicians are defined by Peter with much prejudice and passion . 
have labored to explore and discriminate the various systems of the Gnostics on the subject of the two principles . 
The apostolic labors of Constantine Sylvanus soon multiplied the number of his disciples , the secret recompense of spiritual ambition . 
The new sect was loosely spread over the provinces of Asia Minor to the westward of the Euphrates six of their principal congregations represented the churches to which St . 
After a mission of twenty seven years , Sylvanus , who had retired from the tolerating government of the Arabs , fell a sacrifice to Roman persecution . 
A Greek minister , armed with legal and military powers , appeared at Colonia to strike the shepherd , and to reclaim , if possible , the lost sheep . 
again deceived and betrayed his unsuspecting brethren , and a new conformity to the acts of St . 
The native cruelty of Justinian the Second was stimulated by a pious cause and he vainly hoped to extinguish , in a single conflagration , the name and memory of the Paulicians . 
Most probably founded by Pompey after the conquest of Pontus . 
The temple of Bellona , at Comana in Pontus was a powerful and wealthy foundation , and the high priest was respected as the second person in the kingdom . 
dwells with peculiar complacency on the temple , the worship , and festival , which was twice celebrated every year . 
But the Bellona of Pontus had the features and character of the goddess , not of war , but of love . 
surnamed Thaumaturgus , or the Wonder worker . 
An hundred years afterwards , the history or romance of his life was composed by Gregory of Nyssa , his namesake and countryman , the brother of the great St . 
The most furious and desperate of rebels are the sectaries of a religion long persecuted , and at length provoked . 
Such have been the Hussites of Bohemia and the Calvinists of France , and such , in the ninth century , were the Paulicians of Armenia and the adjacent provinces . 
His father had been impaled by the Catholic inquisitors and religion , or at least nature , might justify his desertion and revenge . 
During more than thirty years , Asia was afflicted by the calamities of foreign and domestic war in their hostile inroads , the disciples of St . 
The valor and ambition of Chrysocheir , his successor , embraced a wider circle of rapine and revenge . 
John protect from violation his city and sepulchre . 
The cathedral of Ephesus was turned into a stable for mules and horses and the Paulicians vied with the Saracens in their contempt and abhorrence of images and relics . 
It is not unpleasing to observe the triumph of rebellion over the same despotism which had disdained the prayers of an injured people . 
If the emperor , replied the insolent fanatic , be desirous of peace , let him abdicate the East , and reign without molestation in the West . 
If he refuse , the servants of the Lord will precipitate him from the throne . 
The reluctant Basil suspended the treaty , accepted the defiance , and led his army into the land of heresy , which he wasted with fire and sword . 
describe the revolt and exploits of Carbeas and his Paulicians . 
is probably the only Frank who has visited the independent Barbarians of Tephrice now Divrigni , from whom he fortunately escaped in the train of a Turkish officer . 
has exposed the nakedness of the empire . 
has displayed the glory of his grandfather . 
is without their passions or their knowledge . 
How elegant is the Greek tongue , even in the mouth of Cedrenus ! Chapter LIV Origin And Doctrine Of The Paulicians . 
As a favor , or punishment , he transplanted them from the banks of the Euphrates to Constantinople and Thrace and by this emigration their doctrine was introduced and diffused in Europe . 
If the sectaries of the metropolis were soon mingled with the promiscuous mass , those of the country struck a deep root in a foreign soil . 
In the tenth century , they were restored and multiplied by a more powerful colony , which John Zimisces transported from the Chalybian hills to the valleys of Mount Haemus . 
The same spirit rendered them arrogant and contumacious they were easily provoked by caprice or injury and their privileges were often violated by the faithless bigotry of the government and clergy . 
In the midst of the Norman war , two thousand five hundred Manichaeans deserted the standard of Alexius Comnenus , and retired to their native homes . 
He dissembled till the moment of revenge invited the chiefs to a friendly conference and punished the innocent and guilty by imprisonment , confiscation , and baptism . 
But the proud hope of eradicating the prejudices of a nation was speedily overturned by the invincible zeal of the Paulicians , who ceased to dissemble or refused to obey . 
After the departure and death of Alexius , they soon resumed their civil and religious laws . 
resided on the confines of Bulgaria , Croatia , and Dalmatia , and governed , by his vicars , the filial congregations of Italy and France . 
From that aera , a minute scrutiny might prolong and perpetuate the chain of tradition . 
Copronymus transported his heretics and thus says Cedrenus , who has copied the annals of Theophanes . 
records the transactions of her apostolic father with the Manichaeans , whose abominable heresy she was desirous of refuting . 
who found the Paulicians at Philippopolis the friends of the Bulgarians . 
See Marsigli , Stato Militare dell' Imperio Ottomano , p . 
In the West , the first teachers of the Manichaean theology had been repulsed by the people , or suppressed by the prince . 
Three different roads might introduce the Paulicians into the heart of Europe . 
The trade and dominion of Venice pervaded the coast of the Adriatic , and the hospitable republic opened her bosom to foreigners of every climate and religion . 
The Bulgarians , a name so innocent in its origin , so odious in its application , spread their branches over the face of Europe . 
The laws of the Eastern emperors were revived by Frederic the Second . 
The insurgents of Tephrice were represented by the barons and cities of Languedoc Pope Innocent III . 
surpassed the sanguinary fame of Theodora . 
The visible assemblies of the Paulicians , or Albigeois , were extirpated by fire and sword and the bleeding remnant escaped by flight , concealment , or Catholic conformity . 
But the invincible spirit which they had kindled still lived and breathed in the Western world . 
In the state , in the church , and even in the cloister , a latent succession was preserved of the disciples of St . 
Paul who protested against the tyranny of Rome , embraced the Bible as the rule of faith , and purified their creed from all the visions of the Gnostic theology . 
Cum Graecis aderant quidam , quos pessimus error Fecerat amentes , et ab ipso nomen habebant . 
But he is so ignorant of their doctrine as to make them a kind of Sabellians or Patripassians . 
Bulgari , Boulgres , Bougres , a national appellation , has been applied by the French as a term of reproach to usurers and unnatural sinners . 
The Manichaeans were likewise named Cathari or the pure , by corruption . 
The detail may be found in the ecclesiastical historians , ancient and modern , Catholics and Protestants and amongst these Fleury is the most impartial and moderate . 
with a previous History of the Inquisition in general . 
They deserved a more learned and critical editor . 
, , the whole by Wolf , in his Anecdota Graeca . 
Compare a very sensible tract . 
S. R. Maitland , by J G. Dowling , M. A. London , . 
After a fair discussion , we shall rather be surprised by the timidity , than scandalized by the freedom , of our first reformers . 
Hitherto the weight of supernatural belief inclines against the Protestants and many a sober Christian would rather admit that a wafer is God , than that God is a cruel and capricious tyrant . 
Yet the services of Luther and his rivals are solid and important and the philosopher must own his obligations to these fearless enthusiasts . 
I. By their hands the lofty fabric of superstition , from the abuse of indulgences to the intercesson of the Virgin , has been levelled with the ground . 
Myriads of both sexes of the monastic profession were restored to the liberty and labors of social life . 
The imitation of Paganism was supplied by a pure and spiritual worship of prayer and thanksgiving , the most worthy of man , the least unworthy of the Deity . 
This freedom , however , was the consequence , rather than the design , of the Reformation . 
The patriot reformers were ambitious of succeeding the tyrants whom they had dethroned . 
They imposed with equal rigor their creeds and confessions they asserted the right of the magistrate to punish heretics with death . 
The nature of the tiger wa s the same , but he was gradually deprived of his teeth and fangs . 
A spiritual and temporal kingdom was possessed by the Roman pontiff the Protestant doctors were subjects of an humble rank , without revenue or jurisdiction . 
In the exercise , the mind has understood the limits of its powers , and the words and shadows that might amuse the child can no longer satisfy his manly reason . 
Yet the friends of Christianity are alarmed at the boundless impulse of inquiry and scepticism . 
Had it not been for such men as Luther and myself , said the fanatic Whiston to Halley the philosopher , you would now be kneeling before an image of St . 
The article of Servet in the Dictionnaire Critique of Chauffepie is the best account which I have seen of this shameful transaction . 
See likewise the Abbe d'Artigny , Nouveaux Memoires d'Histoire , c . 
I am more deeply scandalized at the single execution of Servetus , than at the hecatombs which have blazed in the Auto de Fes of Spain and Portugal . 
The zeal of Calvin seems to have been envenomed by personal malice , and perhaps envy . 
He accused his adversary before their common enemies , the judges of Vienna , and betrayed , for his destruction , the sacred trust of a private correspondence . 
The deed of cruelty was not varnished by the pretence of danger to the church or state . 
In his passage through Geneva , Servetus was a harmless stranger , who neither preached , nor printed , nor made proselytes . 
four hundred years before the publication of the Gospel . 
G. See Burnet , vol . 
The sense and humanity of the young king were oppressed by the authority of the primate . 
Erasmus may be considered as the father of rational theology . 
Tillotson , Clarke , Hoadley , c . 
See the excellent chapter of Sir William Temple on the Religion of the United Provinces . 
who approves the Imperial laws of persecution , and only condemns the bloody tribunal of the inquisition . 
explains the law of England as it was fixed at the Revolution . 
The exceptions of Papists , and of those who deny the Trinity , would still have a tolerable scope for persecution if the national spirit were not more effectual than a hundred statutes . 
I shall recommend to public animadversion two passages in Dr . 
Priestley , which betray the ultimate tendency of his opinions . 
M. Chapter LV The Bulgarians , The Hungarians And The Russians . 
Origin , Migrations , And Settlement Of The Hungarians . 
Their Inroads In The East And West . 
Wars Of The Russians Against The Greek Empire . 
From the antiquities of , I. Bulgarians , II . 
Hungarians , and , III . 
Russians , I shall content myself with selecting such facts as yet deserve to be remembered . 
The conquests of the , IV . 
Petropoli , in four tomes , or six volumes , in to . 
But the fashion has not enhanced the price of these raw materials . 
I. In his march to Italy , Theodoric the Ostrogoth had trampled on the arms of the Bulgarians . 
A king of the ancient Bulgaria , bequeathed to his five sons a last lesson of moderation and concord . 
But the stream of emigration was directed or impelled towards the capital . 
, followed either the standard or the example of the leading tribe . 
The kingdom of Crotia was shared by eleven Zoupans , or feudatory lords and their united forces were numbered at sixty thousand horse and one hundred thousand foot . 
Nicephorus , C. P. p . 
Theophanes places the old Bulgaria on the banks of the Atell or Volga but he deprives himself of all geographical credit by discharging that river into the Euxine Sea . 
The same author has marked the separate idiom of the Hungarians . 
Note The Slavonian languages are no doubt Indo European , though an original branch of that great family , comprehending the various dialects named by Gibbon and others . 
See the work of John Christopher de Jordan , de Originibus Sclavicis , Vindobonae , , in four parts , or two volumes in folio . 
Note We have at length a profound and satisfactory work on the Slavonian races . 
the two oldest monuments of the history of Venice . 
The glory of the Bulgarians was confined to a narrow scope both of time and place . 
The emperor Nicephorus had lost his fame in the Arabian , he lost his life in the Sclavonian , war . 
The Greeks bewailed the dishonor of the throne but they acknowledged the just punishment of avarice and cruelty . 
The Greeks , whom he repeatedly attacked , derived a faint consolation from indulging themselves in the reproaches of perfidy and sacrilege . 
On classic ground , on the banks of Achelous , the greeks were defeated their horn was broken by the strength of the Barbaric Hercules . 
He formed the siege of Constantinople and , in a personal conference with the emperor , Simeon imposed the conditions of peace . 
Are you a Christian ? said the humble Romanus it is your duty to abstain from the blood of your fellow Christians . 
Has the thirst of riches seduced you from the blessings of peace ? Sheathe your sword , open your hand , and I will satiate the utmost measure of your desires . 
which he found in the palace of Lychnidus . 
His cruelty inflicted a cool and exquisite vengeance on fifteen thousand captives who had been guilty of the defence of their country . 
They were deprived of sight but to one of each hundred a single eye was left , that he might conduct his blind century to the presence of their king . 
The first kingdom of the Bulgarians may be found , under the proper dates , in the Annals of Cedrenus and Zonaras . 
Rigidum fera dextera cornu Dum tenet , infregit , truncaque a fronte revellit . 
has boldly painted the combat of the river god and the hero the native and the stranger . 
See the Ceremoniale of Constantine Porphyrogenitus , tom . 
, , , , , , , , with the annotations of Reiske . 
Since the introduction of letters , they have explored their own antiquities with a strong and laudable impulse of patriotic curiosity . 
Their public counsels were directed by seven vayvods , or hereditary chiefs but the experience of discord and weakness recommended the more simple and vigorous administration of a single person . 
The first embraces a large and often conjectural space the latter , by his learning , judgment , and perspicuity , deserves the name of a critical historian . 
Note Compare Engel Geschichte des Ungrischen Reichs und seiner Neben lander , Halle , , and Mailath , Geschichte der Magyaren , Wien , . 
which have been advanced by the learned , on the origin of the Magyar and Hungarian names . 
M. The author of this Chronicle is styled the notary of King Bela . 
Katona has assigned him to the xiith century , and defends his character against the hypercriticism of Pray . 
This rude annalist must have transcribed some historical records , since he could affirm with dignity , rejectis falsis fabulis rusticorum , et garrulo cantu joculatorum . 
In the xvth century , these fables were collected by Thurotzius , and embellished by the Italian Bonfinius . 
See the Preliminary Discourse in the Hist . 
See Constantine de Administrando Imperio , c . 
endeavors to prove the existence , and to relate the actions , of a first duke Almus the father of Arpad , who is tacitly rejected by Constantine . 
produces and illustrates the original passages of the Hungarian missionaries , Bonfinius and Aeneas Sylvius . 
In the deserts to the south east of Astrakhan have been found the ruins of a city named Madchar , which proves the residence of the Hungarians or Magiar in those regions . 
par Malte Brun , vol . 
G. This is contested by Klaproth in his Travels , c . 
Madschar , in old Tartar , means stone building . 
This was a Tartar city mentioned by the Mahometan writers . 
M. With this narrative we might be reasonably content , if the penetration of modern learning had not opened a new and larger prospect of the antiquities of nations . 
Arms and freedom have ever been the ruling , though too often the unsuccessful , passion of the Hungarians , who are endowed by nature with a vigorous constitution of soul and body . 
, have drawn up several comparative tables of the Hungarian with the Fennic dialects . 
it essentially differs toto genio et natura . 
The connection between the Magyar language and that of the Finns is now almost generally admitted . 
Klaproth , Asia Polyglotta , p . 
Genealogique des Tartars , par Abulghazi Bahadur Khan partie ii . 
found the Vogulitz in the neighborhood of Tobolsky . 
This picture of the Hungarians and Bulgarians is chiefly drawn from the Tactics of Leo , p . 
, and the Latin Annals , which are alleged by Baronius , Pagi , and Muratori , A. D. , c . 
Gustavus Adolphus attempted , without success , to form a regiment of Laplanders . 
and attempts , after the manner of Tacitus , to varnish with philosophy their brutal ignorance . 
Chapter LV The Bulgarians , The Hungarians And The Russians . 
Yet the Hungarians were not devoid of those principles of justice and humanity , which nature has implanted in every bosom . 
The license of public and private injuries was restrained by laws and punishments and in the security of an open camp , theft is the most tempting and most dangerous offence . 
Among the Barbarians there were many , whose spontaneous virtue supplied their laws and corrected their manners , who performed the duties , and sympathized with the affections , of social life . 
mentions theft as a capital crime , and his jurisprudence is confirmed by the original code of St . 
After a long pilgrimage of flight or victory , the Turkish hordes approached the common limits of the French and Byzantine empires . 
That ample and fertile land was loosely occupied by the Moravians , a Sclavonian name and tribe , which were driven by the invaders into the compass of a narrow province . 
In the battle of Augsburgh the Christians maintained their advantage till the seventh hour of the day , they were deceived and vanquished by the flying stratagems of the Turkish cavalry . 
Gall , and the city of Bremen , on the shores of the northern ocean . 
The vicinity of Italy had tempted their early inroads but from their camp on the Brenta , they beheld with some terror the apparent strength and populousness of the new discovered country . 
They requested leave to retire their request was proudly rejected by the Italian king and the lives of twenty thousand Christians paid the forfeit of his obstinacy and rashness . 
Among the cities of the West , the royal Pavia was conspicuous in fame and splendor and the preeminence of Rome itself was only derived from the relics of the apostles . 
from the smoking ruins of their country . 
A composition was offered and accepted for the head of each Italian subject and ten bushels of silver were poured forth in the Turkish camp . 
But falsehood is the natural antagonist of violence and the robbers were defrauded both in the numbers of the assessment and the standard of the metal . 
The barrier was overturned the emperor of Constantinople beheld the waving banners of the Turks and one of their boldest warriors presumed to strike a battle axe into the golden gate . 
Hungarorum gens , cujus omnes fere nationes expertae saevitium c . 
who frequently expatiated on the calamities of his own times . 
, , , , , l . 
His colors are glaring but his chronology must be rectified by Pagi and Muratori . 
Muratori has considered with patriotic care the danger and resources of Modena . 
Geminianus , their patron , to avert , by his intercession , the rabies , flagellum , c . 
Nunc te rogamus , licet servi pessimi , Ab Ungerorum nos defendas jaculis . 
yet , however glorious to the nation , it is denied or doubted by the critical historian , and even by the notary of Bela . 
The valiant Henry was roused from a bed of sickness by the invasion of his country but his mind was vigorous and his prudence successful . 
They were invited by domestic faction the gates of Germany were treacherously unlocked and they spread , far beyond the Rhine and the Meuse , into the heart of Flanders . 
The resources of discipline and valor were fortified by the arts of superstition , which , on this occasion , may deserve the epithets of generous and salutary . 
Maurice , the praefect of the Thebaean legion . 
Yet the spirit of the nation was humbled , and the most accessible passes of Hungary were fortified with a ditch and rampart . 
The son of Geisa was invested with the regal title , and the house of Arpad reigned three hundred years in the kingdom of Hungary . 
of the latter but the critical historian will not even overlook the horn of a warrior , which is said to be preserved at Jaz berid . 
The lance of Christ is taken from the best evidence , Liutprand , Sigebert , and the Acts of St . 
Gerard but the other military relics depend on the faith of the Gesta Anglorum post Bedam , l . 
Among these colonies we may distinguish , . 
The Chazars , or Cabari , who joined the Hungarians on their march , . 
The Russians , who , like the Swiss in France , imparted a general name to the royal porters . 
were invited , cum magna multitudine Hismahelitarum . 
Had any of those Sclavonians embraced the Mahometan religion ? . 
The Bisseni and Cumans , a mixed multitude of Patzinacites , Uzi , Chazars , c . 
, who had spread to the Lower Danube . 
Christiani autem , quorum pars major populi est , qui ex omni parte mundi illuc tracti sunt captivi , c . 
Such was the language of Piligrinus , the first missionary who entered Hungary , A. D. . 
The Greeks were accompanied by the envoys of the great duke , or chagan , or czar , of the Russians . 
This Scandinavian origin of the people , or at least the princes , of Russia , may be confirmed and illustrated by the national annals and the general history of the North . 
The Normans , who had so long been concealed by a veil of impenetrable darkness , suddenly burst forth in the spirit of naval and military enterprise . 
Piracy was the exercise , the trade , the glory , and the virtue , of the Scandinavian youth . 
Their superiority in arms , discipline , and renown , commanded the fear and reverence of the natives . 
Their tyranny was expelled , their valor was again recalled , till at length Ruric , a Scandinavian chief , became the father of a dynasty which reigned above seven hundred years . 
Among the Greeks , this national appellation has a singular form , as an undeclinable word , of which many fanciful etymologies have been suggested . 
by Theophilus Sigefrid Bayer , a learned German , who spent his life and labors in the service of Russia . 
has likewise been of use . 
The names of the first founders of the Russian monarchy are Scandinavian or Norman . 
differed essentially from the Sclavonian . 
The author of the Annals of St . 
in the year of his Annals , assigns them Sweden for their country . 
So Liutprand calls the Russians the same people as the Normans . 
The Fins , Laplanders , and Esthonians , call the Swedes , to the present day , Roots , Rootsi , Ruotzi , Rootslaue . 
See Thunman , Untersuchungen uber der Geschichte des Estlichen Europaischen Volker , p . 
Schlozer , in his Nestor . 
A. D. , twenty two years before the aera of Ruric . 
speaks of the Russians and Normans as the same Aquilonares homines of a red complexion . 
My knowledge of these annals is drawn from M. Leveque , Histoire de Russie . 
Note The late M. Schlozer has translated and added a commentary to the Annals of Nestor and his work is the mine from which henceforth the history of the North must be drawn . 
At the same time , the Russian prince admonished his Byzantine ally to disperse and employ , to recompense and restrain , these impetuous children of the North . 
On this occasion , the vague appellation of Thule is applied to England and the new Varangians were a colony of English and Danes who fled from the yoke of the Norman conqueror . 
Yet , as late as the year , Kiow and Russia were still guarded ex fugitivorum servorum robore , confluentium et maxime Danorum . 
the Chronicle of Dithmar of Merseburgh , observes , that it was unusual for the Germans to enlist in a foreign service . 
See likewise the annotations of Reiske to the Ceremoniale Aulae Byzant . 
Saxo Grammaticus affirms that they spoke Danish but Codinus maintains them till the fifteenth century in the use of their native English . 
Their northern reign ascended above the sixtieth degree of latitude over the Hyperborean regions , which fancy had peopled with monsters , or clouded with eternal darkness . 
To the south they followed the course of the Borysthenes , and approached with that river the neighborhood of the Euxine Sea . 
The tribes that dwelt , or wandered , in this ample circuit were obedient to the same conqueror , and insensibly blended into the same nation . 
With the emigration , union , or dissolution , of the wandering tribes , the loose and indefinite picture of the Scythian desert has continually shifted . 
Novogorod had not yet deserved the epithet of great , nor the alliance of the Hanseatic League , which diffused the streams of opulence and the principles of freedom . 
In their origin , the two cities were no more than camps or fairs , the most convenient stations in which the Barbarians might assemble for the occasional business of war or trade . 
In the days of idolatry and barbarism , the Sclavonic city of Julin was frequented and enriched by the Normans , who had prudently secured a free mart of purchase and exchange . 
They returned at the stated season with a rich cargo of corn , wine , and oil , the manufactures of Greece , and the spices of India . 
Some of their countrymen resided in the capital and provinces and the national treaties protected the persons , effects , and privileges , of the Russian merchant . 
with the aid of the chronicles and traditions of Russia , Scandinavia , c . 
even to the times that preceded the reign of Ruric . 
the remains of Novogorod , and the route by sea and land of the Holstein ambassadors , tom . 
metropolis est Chive , aemula sceptri Constantinopolitani , quae est clarissimum decus Graeciae . 
The fame of Kiow , especially in the xith century , had reached the German and Arabian geographers . 
a strange exaggeration even in the xith century . 
Note The book of authority is the Geschichte des Hanseatischen Bundes , by George Sartorius , Gottingen , , or rather the later edition of that work by M. Lappenberg , vols . 
Memel is defined as the common frontier of Russia , Curland , and Prussia . 
divinis auguribus atque necromanticis omnes domus sunt plenae . 
but the map is unluckily wanting in my copy . 
Nestor , apud Leveque , Hist . 
From the Dnieper , or Borysthenes , the Russians went to Black Bulgaria , Chazaria , and Syria . 
Chapter LV The Bulgarians , The Hungarians And The Russians . 
But the same communication which had been opened for the benefit , was soon abused for the injury , of mankind . 
The Russian traders had seen the magnificence , and tasted the luxury of the city of the Caesars . 
The Greek appellation of monoxyla , or single canoes , might justly be applied to the bottom of their vessels . 
The first trial of the Russians was made with two hundred boats but when the national force was exerted , they might arm against Constantinople a thousand or twelve hundred vessels . 
Had the Greek emperors been endowed with foresight to discern , and vigor to prevent , perhaps they might have sealed with a maritime force the mouth of the Borysthenes . 
In their first enterprise under the princes of Kiow , they passed without opposition , and occupied the port of Constantinople in the absence of the emperor Michael , the son of Theophilus . 
Through a crowd of perils , he landed at the palace stairs , and immediately repaired to a church of the Virgin Mary . 
But if courage be not wanting , the instruments of defence are seldom deficient . 
Yet one third of the canoes escaped into shallow water and the next spring Igor was again prepared to retrieve his disgrace and claim his revenge . 
After a long peace , Jaroslaus , the great grandson of Igor , resumed the same project of a naval invasion . 
A fleet , under the command of his son , was repulsed at the entrance of the Bosphorus by the same artificial flames . 
his descriptions are lively , his plans accurate , and except the circumstances of fire arms , we may read old Russians for modern Cosacks . 
After disentangling some chronological intricacies , he fixes it in the years or , a date which might have smoothed some doubts and difficulties in the beginning of M. Leveque's history . 
When Photius wrote his encyclic epistle on the conversion of the Russians , the miracle was not yet sufficiently ripe . 
See Nestor and Nicon , in Leveque's Hist . 
uses his advantage to disprove this Russian victory , which would cloud the siege of Kiow by the Hungarians . 
, , and Liutprand , l . 
, who writes from the narratives of his father in law , then ambassador at Constantinople , and corrects the vain exaggeration of the Greeks . 
but they grow more weighty and credible as they draw near to their own times . 
Yet the threats or calamities of a Russian war were more frequently diverted by treaty than by arms . 
The memory of these Arctic fleets that seemed to descend from the polar circle left deep impression of terror on the Imperial city . 
Perhaps the present generation may yet behold the accomplishment of the prediction , of a rare prediction , of which the style is unambiguous and the date unquestionable . 
Nestor , apud Leveque , Hist . 
This brazen statue , which had been brought from Antioch , and was melted down by the Latins , was supposed to represent either Joshua or Bellerophon , an odd dilemma . 
and the anonymous writer de Antiquitat . 
who lived about the year . 
They witness the belief of the prophecy the rest is immaterial . 
The vigor of his mind and body was fortified by the hardships of a military and savage life . 
The exercise of war gave stability and discipline to his army and it may be presumed , that no soldier was permitted to transcend the luxury of his chief . 
The vanquished king sunk into the grave his children were made captive and his dominions , as far as Mount Haemus , were subdued or ravaged by the northern invaders . 
Swatoslaus enjoyed and acknowledged the advantages of his new position , in which he could unite , by exchange or rapine , the various productions of the earth . 
in the minute detail of the cookery of Achilles . 
the emperor led the main body of ten thousand five hundred foot and the rest of his forces followed in slow and cautious array , with the baggage and military engines . 
Many deeds of valor were performed several desperate sallies were attempted nor was it till after a siege of sixty five days that Swatoslaus yielded to his adverse fortune . 
The liberal terms which he obtained announce the prudence of the victor , who respected the valor , and apprehended the despair , of an unconquered mind . 
Far different was the return of Zimisces , who was received in his capital like Camillus or Marius , the saviors of ancient Rome . 
Zimisces made his public entry on horseback the diadem on his head , a crown of laurel in his hand and Constantinople was astonished to applaud the martial virtues of her sovereign . 
This singular epithet is derived from the Armenian language . 
the learned Armenian , gives another derivation . 
There is a city called Tschemisch gaizag , which means a bright or purple sandal , such as women wear in the East . 
From its position between Mount Haemus and the Lower Danube , it appears to fill the ground , or at least the station , of Marcianopolis . 
The political management of the Greeks , more especially with the Patzinacites , is explained in the seven first chapters , de Administratione Imperii . 
These declaimers have multiplied to , and , men , those Russian forces , of which the contemporary had given a moderate and consistent account . 
Photius of Constantinople , a patriarch , whose ambition was equal to his curiosity , congratulates himself and the Greek church on the conversion of the Russians . 
His triumph was transient and premature . 
Her son Swatoslaus was apprehensive of the scorn and ridicule of his companions and her grandson Wolodomir devoted his youthful zeal to multiply and decorate the monuments of ancient worship . 
They had gazed with admiration on the dome of St . 
But the conversion of Wolodomir was determined , or hastened , by his desire of a Roman bride . 
They were neither Greeks nor Atheists . 
See the Ceremoniale Aulae Byzant . 
the style of Olga , or Elga . 
For the chief of Barbarians the Greeks whimsically borrowed the title of an Athenian magistrate , with a female termination , which would have astonished the ear of Demosthenes . 
as the place of Wolodomir's baptism and marriage and both the tradition and the gates are still preserved at Novogorod . 
and quotes an inscription , which seems to justify his opinion . 
Yet truth and candor must acknowledge , that the conversion of the North imparted many temporal benefits both to the old and the new Christians . 
The establishment of law and order was promoted by the influence of the clergy and the rudiments of art and science were introduced into the savage countries of the globe . 
The liberal piety of the Russian princes engaged in their service the most skilful of the Greeks , to decorate the cities and instruct the inhabitants the dome and the paintings of St . 
Consult the Latin text , or English version , of Mosheim's excellent History of the Church , under the first head or section of each of these centuries . 
In the year , the ambassadors of St . 
Stephen received from Pope Silvester the title of King of Hungary , with a diadem of Greek workmanship . 
It had been designed for the duke of Poland but the Poles , by their own confession , were yet too barbarous to deserve an angelical and apostolical crown . 
of which the substance is agreeable to truth Ecce illa ferocissima Danorum , c . 
jamdudum novit in Dei laudibus Alleluia resonare . 
suis nunc finibus contentus est . 
Ecce patria horribilis semper inaccessa propter cultum idolorum . 
praedicatores veritatis ubique certatim admittit , c . 
The great princes removed in from Kiow , which was ruined by the Tartars in . 
Moscow became the seat of empire in the xivth century . 
See the st and d volumes of Levesque's History , and Mr. Coxe's Travels into the North , tom . 
Stephen had used the reverential expressions of regnum oblatum , debitam obedientiam , c . 
, which were most rigorously interpreted by Gregory VII . 
Chapter LVI The Saracens , The Franks And The Normans . 
Part I. The Saracens , Franks , And Greeks , In Italy . 
First Adventures And Settlement Of The Normans . 
Character And Conquest Of Robert Guiscard , Duke Of Apulia Deliverance Of Sicily By His Brother Roger . 
Victories Of Robert Over The Emperors Of The East And West . 
Roger , King Of Sicily , Invades Africa And Greece . 
Wars Of The Greeks And Normans . 
The three great nations of the world , the Greeks , the Saracens , and the Franks , encountered each other on the theatre of Italy . 
An offensive alliance was concluded between Basil the Macedonian , the first of his race , and Lewis the great grandson of Charlemagne and each party supplied the deficiencies of his associate . 
This important conquest had been achieved by the concord of the East and West but their recent amity was soon imbittered by the mutual complaints of jealousy and pride . 
His reply is expressed with the eloquence of indignation and truth We confess the magnitude of your preparation , says the great grandson of Charlemagne . 
accelerate your naval succors , respect your allies , and distrust your flatterers . 
of the Annali d' Italia of Muratori , and the d volume of the Abrege Chronologique of M. de St . 
Marc , a work which , under a superficial title , contains much genuine learning and industry . 
The oriental epistle of the emperor Lewis II . 
from the Vatican Ms. of Erchempert , or rather of the anonymous historian of Salerno . 
But the Lombard princes of Benevento , Salerno , and Capua , were reluctantly torn from the communion of the Latin world , and too often violated their oaths of servitude and tribute . 
On that day the scale of war was turned against the Franks by the valor of the Saracens . 
A series of rebellions might dart a ray of truth into the palace of Constantinople and the illusions of flattery were dispelled by the easy and rapid success of the Norman adventurers . 
Your master , says Nicephorus , has given aid and protection prinminibus Capuano et Beneventano , servis meis , quos oppugnare dispono . 
has nicely discerned this change in the style of the anonymous Chronicle . 
had asserted the Latin claim to Apulia and Calabria . 
Against the contemporary notion , which derives it from juxta omne , he treats it as a corruption of the Latin capitaneus . 
that in this age the capitanei were not captains , but only nobles of the first rank , the great valvassors of Italy . 
that Leo was master of the city . 
The revolution of human affairs had produced in Apulia and Calabria a melancholy contrast between the age of Pythagoras and the tenth century of the Christian aera . 
Among the hostilities of the Arabs , the Franks , and the Greeks , in the southern Italy , I shall select two or three anecdotes expressive of their national manners . 
It was the amusement of the Saracens to profane , as well as to pillage , the monasteries and churches . 
At the siege of Salerno , a Mussulman chief spread his couch on the communion table , and on that altar sacrificed each night the virginity of a Christian nun . 
The Saracens besieged the cities of Beneventum and Capua after a vain appeal to the successors of Charlemagne , the Lombards implored the clemency and aid of the Greek emperor . 
A fearless citizen dropped from the walls , passed the intrenchments , accomplished his commission , and fell into the hands of the Barbarians as he was returning with the welcome news . 
I know my doom , and commit my wife and children to your gratitude . 
The rage of the Arabs confirmed his evidence and the self devoted patriot was transpierced with a hundred spears . 
The recital of a third incident may provoke a smile amidst the horrors of war . 
Theobald , marquis of Camerino and Spoleto , supported the rebels of Beneventum and his wanton cruelty was not incompatible in that age with the character of a hero . 
The garrison of a castle had been defeated in a sally , and the prisoners were sentenced to the customary operation . 
But the sacrifice was disturbed by the intrusion of a frantic female , who , with bleeding cheeks dishevelled hair , and importunate clamors , compelled the marquis to listen to her complaint . 
Should such , she answered without hesitation , be his guilt and misfortune , he has eyes , and a nose , and hands , and feet . 
These are his own , and these he may deserve to forfeit by his personal offences . 
But let my lord be pleased to spare what his little handmaid presumes to claim as her peculiar and lawful property . 
ita ut deserta sit velut in diluvio . 
and of Camillo Pellegrino , tom . 
) Both were extremely scarce , when they were reprinted by Muratori . 
has drawn this story from a Ms. of Erchempert , who died at Capua only fifteen years after the event . 
composed towards the end of the xth century , and published in the second volume of Muratori's Collection . 
See the Dissertations of Camillo Pellegrino , tom . 
is the original author of this story . 
He places it under the reigns of Basil and Lewis II . 
yet the reduction of Beneventum by the Greeks is dated A. D. , after the decease of both of those princes . 
under the walls of the same city of Beneventum . 
But the actors are different , and the guilt is imputed to the Greeks themselves , which in the Byzantine edition is applied to the Saracens . 
In the late war in Germany , M. D'Assas , a French officer of the regiment of Auvergne , is said to have devoted himself in a similar manner . 
Theobald , who is styled Heros by Liutprand , was properly duke of Spoleto and marquis of Camerino , from the year to . 
The broken provinces of the Greeks , Lombards , and Saracens , were exposed to every invader , and every sea and land were invaded by the adventurous spirit of the Scandinavian pirates . 
Of the fashionable superstitions , they embraced with ardor the pilgrimages of Rome , Italy , and the Holy Land . 
They confederated for their mutual defence and the robbers of the Alps , who had been allured by the garb of a pilgrim , were often chastised by the arm of a warrior . 
His name was Melo a noble citizen of Bari , who , after an unsuccessful revolt , was compelled to seek new allies and avengers of his country . 
The bold appearance of the Normans revived his hopes and solicited his confidence they listened to the complaints , and still more to the promises , of the patriot . 
The assurance of wealth demonstrated the justice of his cause and they viewed , as the inheritance of the brave , the fruitful land which was oppressed by effeminate tyrants . 
On their return to Normandy , they kindled a spark of enterprise , and a small but intrepid band was freely associated for the deliverance of Apulia . 
The first leader of the Normans was Count Rainulf and , in the origin of society , preeminence of rank is the reward and the proof of superior merit . 
and with the spirit of freemen . 
It is needless to recapitulate the compilers and critics of Italian history , Sigonius , Baronius , Pagi , Giannone , Muratori , St . 
, whom I have always consulted , and never copied . 
Note M. Goutier d'Arc has discovered a translation of the Chronicle of Aime , monk of Mont Cassino , a contemporary of the first Norman invaders of Italy . 
He has made use of it in his Histoire des Conquetes des Normands , and added a summary of its contents . 
This work was quoted by later writers , but was supposed to have been entirely lost . 
M. Some of the first converts were baptized ten or twelve times , for the sake of the white garment usually given at this ceremony . 
At the funeral of Rollo , the gifts to monasteries for the repose of his soul were accompanied by a sacrifice of one hundred captives . 
But in a generation or two , the national change was pure and general . 
when it was already forgotten at Rouen , in the court and capital . 
has given a specimen , obsolete and obscure even to antiquarians and lawyers . 
! A band of Normans returning from the Holy Land had rescued the city of Salerno from the attack of a numerous fleet of Saracens . 
Gainar , the Lombard prince of Salerno wished to retain them in his service and take them into his pay . 
They answered , We fight for our religion , and not for money . 
Gaimar entreated them to send some Norman knights to his court . 
This seems to have been the origin of the connection of the Normans with Italy . 
See Histoire des Conquetes des Normands par Goutier d'Arc , l . 
have surpassed the Greeks in the elegance of their superstition . 
Nine out of ten perished in the field . 
quoted by M Goutier d'Arc , p . 
M. See the first book of William Appulus . 
His words are applicable to every swarm of Barbarians and freebooters Si vicinorum quis pernitiosus ad illos Confugiebat eum gratanter suscipiebant Moribus et lingua quoscumque venire videbant Informant propria gens efficiatur ut una . 
And elsewhere , of the native adventurers of Normandy Pars parat , exiguae vel opes aderant quia nullae Pars , quia de magnis majora subire volebant . 
This account is not accurate . 
After the retreat of the emperor Henry II . 
the Normans , united under the command of Rainulf , had taken possession of Aversa , then a small castle in the duchy of Naples . 
They had been masters of it a few years when Pandulf IV . 
, prince of Capua , found means to take Naples by surprise . 
It was then that he confirmed the Normans in the possession of Aversa and its territory , which he raised into a count's fief , and granted the investiture to Rainulf . 
Before their landing , the brothers were reconciled the union of Sicily and Africa was restored and the island was guarded to the water's edge . 
The Normans led the van and the Arabs of Messina felt the valor of an untried foe . 
In a second action the emir of Syracuse was unhorsed and transpierced by the iron arm of William of Hauteville . 
But his military fame was sullied by ingratitude and tyranny . 
In the division of the spoils , the deserts of his brave auxiliaries were forgotten and neither their avarice nor their pride could brook this injurious treatment . 
They complained by the mouth of their interpreter their complaint was disregarded their interpreter was scourged the sufferings were his the insult and resentment belonged to those whose sentiments he had delivered . 
He was dismissed with a fresh horse the insult was concealed from the Imperial troops but in two successive battles they were more fatally instructed of the prowess of their adversaries . 
From this aera we may date the establishment of the Norman power , which soon eclipsed the infant colony of Aversa . 
Twelve counts were chosen by the popular suffrage and age , birth , and merit , were the motives of their choice . 
The tributes of their peculiar districts were appropriated to their use and each count erected a fortress in the midst of his lands , and at the head of his vassals . 
The manners of his countrymen are fairly delineated by a contemporary and national historian . 
Liutprand , in Legatione , p . 
See the Arabian Chronicle of Sicily , apud Muratori , Script . 
and the Greeks are so hardened to disgrace , that their narratives are impartial enough . 
Lydia consult Constantine de Thematibus , i . 
, , with Delisle's map . 
Omnes conveniunt et bis sex nobiliores , Quos genus et gravitas morum decorabat et aetas , Elegere duces . 
Provectis ad comitatum His alii parent . 
Comitatus nomen honoris Quo donantur erat . 
Hi totas undique terras Divisere sibi , ni sors inimica repugnet Singula proponunt loca quae contingere sorte Cuique duci debent , et quaeque tributa locorum . 
And after speaking of Melphi , William Appulus adds , Pro numero comitum bis sex statuere plateas , Atque domus comitum totidem fabricantur in urbe . 
enumerates the divisions of the Apulian cities , which it is needless to repeat . 
which I cannot verify in the original . 
tam armis strenuum , tam sibi munificum , affabilem , morigeratum , ulterius se habere diffidebant . 
The gens astutissima , injuriarum ultrix . 
are expressive of the popular and proverbial character of the Normans . 
The hunting and hawking more properly belong to the descendants of the Norwegian sailors though they might import from Norway and Iceland the finest casts of falcons . 
who appreciates , like a philosophic historian , the vices and virtues of the Saxons and Normans . 
England was assuredly a gainer by the conquest . 
Chapter LVI The Saracens , The Franks And The Normans . 
But his spirit survived in his brother Humphrey , the third count of Apulia . 
pours his holy venom on the Normans . 
Videns indisciplinatam et alienam gentem Normannorum , crudeli et inaudita rabie , et plusquam Pagana impietate , adversus ecclesias Dei insurgere , passim Christianos trucidare , c . 
says calmly of their accuser , Veris commiscens fallacia . 
The policy of the Greeks , revolt of Maniaces , c . 
This last is a fragment of some value . 
Argyrus received , says the anonymous Chronicle of Bari , Imperial letters , Foederatus et Patriciatus , et Catapani et Vestatus . 
very properly reads , or interprets , Sevestatus , the title of Sebastos or Augustus . 
But in his Antiquities , he was taught by Ducange to make it a palatine office , master of the wardrobe . 
The public and private history of that pope is diligently treated by M. de St . 
On the hostile approach of Leo , they knelt without disgrace or reluctance before their spiritual father . 
But the pope was inexorable his lofty Germans affected to deride the diminutive stature of their adversaries and the Normans were informed that death or exile was their only alternative . 
Flight they disdained , and , as many of them had been three days without tasting food , they embraced the assurance of a more easy and honorable death . 
They climbed the hill of Civitella , descended into the plain , and charged in three divisions the army of the pope . 
A harder trial was reserved for the valor of Count Humphrey , who led the cavalry of the right wing . 
After a severe conflict , they were encompassed by the squadrons returning from the pursuit and died in the ranks with the esteem of their foes , and the satisfaction of revenge . 
By whatever hands they had been usurped , the provinces of Apulia and Calabria were a part of the donation of Constantine and the patrimony of St . 
Peter the grant and the acceptance confirmed the mutual claims of the pontiff and the adventurers . 
See the expedition of Leo XI . 
They are impartial , as the national is counterbalanced by the clerical prejudice Teutonici , quia caesaries et forma decoros Fecerat egregie proceri corporis illos Corpora derident Normannica quae breviora Esse videbantur . 
The verses of the Apulian are commonly in this strain , though he heats himself a little in the battle . 
Two of his similes from hawking and sorcery are descriptive of manners . 
Several respectable censures or complaints are produced by M. de St . 
most strenuously asserts the two swords of St . 
as a lawyer and antiquarian . 
His genuine descent may be ascribed to the second or middle order of private nobility . 
Two marriages , of a rank not unworthy of his own , made him the father of twelve sons , who were educated at home by the impartial tenderness of his second wife . 
Robert was the eldest of the seven sons of the second marriage and even the reluctant praise of his foes has endowed him with the heroic qualities of a soldier and a statesman . 
The volunteers of Normandy adhered to his standard and , under his command , the peasants of Calabria assumed the name and character of Normans . 
who has swept all the French and Latin Chronicles for supplemental intelligence . 
Anna Comnena was born in the purple yet her father was no more than a private though illustrious subject , who raised himself to the empire . 
forgets all his original authors , and rests this princely descent on the credit of Inveges , an Augustine monk of Palermo in the last century . 
They continue the succession of dukes from Rollo to William II . 
to be the father of Tancred of Hauteville a most strange and stupendous blunder ! The sons of Tancred fought in Apulia , before William II . 
Pugnat utraque manu , nec lancea cassa , nec ensis Cassus erat , quocunque manu deducere vellet . 
Ter dejectus equo , ter viribus ipse resumptis Major in arma redit stimulos furor ipse ministrat . 
Ut Leo cum frendens , c . 
Nullus in hoc bello sicuti post bella probatum est Victor vel victus , tam magnos edidit ictus . 
The Norman writers and editors most conversant with their own idiom interpret Guiscard or Wiscard , by Callidus , a cunning man . 
is familiar to our ear and in the old word Wiseacre , I can discern something of a similar sense and termination . 
It is no bad translation of the surname and character of Robert . 
With an increase of authority and of force , he resumed the conquest of Calabria , and soon aspired to a rank that should raise him forever above the heads of his equals . 
A synod of one hundred bishops was convened at Melphi and the count interrupted an important enterprise to guard the person and execute the decrees of the Roman pontiff . 
After this inauguration , Robert styled himself , By the grace of God and St . 
Peter , duke of Apulia , Calabria , and hereafter of Sicily and it was the labor of twenty years to deserve and realize these lofty appellations . 
After the defeat of his foreign enemies , the Greeks , Lombards , and Saracens , their broken forces retreated to the strong and populous cities of the sea coast . 
The resistance of Salerno was maintained above eight months the siege or blockade of Bari lasted near four years . 
In these actions the Norman duke was the foremost in every danger in every fatigue the last and most patient . 
As he pressed the citadel of Salerno , a huge stone from the rampart shattered one of his military engines and by a splinter he was wounded in the breast . 
The acquisition of the ducal title by Robert Guiscard is a nice and obscure business . 
With the good advice of Giannone , Muratori , and St . 
Marc , I have endeavored to form a consistent and probable narrative . 
has published the original act . 
and the names of Vatican and Cardinal awaken the suspicions of a Protestant , and even of a philosopher . 
Read the life of Guiscard in the second and third books of the Apulian , the first and second books of Malaterra . 
The Italian conquests of Robert correspond with the limits of the present kingdom of Naples and the countries united by his arms have not been dissevered by the revolutions of seven hundred years . 
Three districts only were exempted from the common law of subjection the first forever , the two last till the middle of the succeeding century . 
Peter was finally more potent than the sword of the Normans . 
Their first colony of Aversa subdued and held the state of Capua and her princes were reduced to beg their bread before the palace of their fathers . 
The dukes of Naples , the present metropolis , maintained the popular freedom , under the shadow of the Byzantine empire . 
Among the new acquisitions of Guiscard , the science of Salerno , and the trade of Amalphi , may detain for a moment the curiosity of the reader . 
I. Of the learned faculties , jurisprudence implies the previous establishment of laws and property and theology may perhaps be superseded by the full light of religion and reason . 
They were protected by the Norman conquerors and Guiscard , though bred in arms , could discern the merit and value of a philosopher . 
Seven miles to the west of Salerno , and thirty to the south of Naples , the obscure town of Amalphi displayed the power and rewards of industry . 
The government was popular , under the administration of a duke and the supremacy of the Greek emperor . 
Fifty thousand citizens were numbered in the walls of Amalphi nor was any city more abundantly provided with gold , silver , and the objects of precious luxury . 
This modern division was not established before the time of Frederic II . 
have given an historical account of these physicians their medical knowledge and practice must be left to our physicians . 
the indefatigable author has inserted two dissertations , de Republica Amalphitana , and de Amalphi a Pisanis direpta , which are built on the testimonies of one hundred and forty writers . 
which compare the trade and navigation of Amalphi with that of Venice . 
Urbs Latii non est hac delitiosior urbe , Frugibus , arboribus , vinoque redundat et unde Non tibi poma , nuces , non pulchra palatia desunt , Non species muliebris abest probitasque virorum . 
of the death of Edward the Confessor , the rex Anglorum to whom they are addressed . 
Huc et Alexandri diversa feruntur ab urbe Regis , et Antiochi . 
Gens haec freta plurima transit . 
His Arabes , Indi , Siculi nascuntur et Afri . 
Haec gens est totum proore nobilitata per orbem , Et mercando forens , et amans mercata referre . 
At present it has six or eight thousand Hist . 
G. Chapter LVI The Saracens , The Franks And The Normans . 
Roger , the twelfth and last of the sons of Tancred , had been long detained in Normandy by his own and his father' age . 
He accepted the welcome summons hastened to the Apulian camp and deserved at first the esteem , and afterwards the envy , of his elder brother . 
Their valor and ambition were equal but the youth , the beauty , the elegant manners , of Roger engaged the disinterested love of the soldiers and people . 
In the fortress of Trani , his active and patient courage were equally conspicuous . 
In the siege of Trani , three hundred Normans withstood and repulsed the forces of the island . 
In the field of Ceramio , fifty thousand horse and foot were overthrown by one hundred and thirty six Christian soldiers , without reckoning St . 
George , who fought on horseback in the foremost ranks . 
The captive banners , with four camels , were reserved for the successor of St . 
Peter and had these barbaric spoils been exposed , not in the Vatican , but in the Capitol , they might have revived the memory of the Punic triumphs . 
A remnant of Christian natives had promoted the success of the Normans they were rewarded by the triumph of the cross . 
The island was restored to the jurisdiction of the Roman pontiff new bishops were planted in the principal cities and the clergy was satisfied by a liberal endowment of churches and monasteries . 
Yet the Catholic hero asserted the rights of the civil magistrate . 
that he has mentioned his patron Roger , the elder brother sinks into the second character . 
Something similar in Velleius Paterculus may be observed of Augustus and Tiberius . 
See the word Milites in the Latin Glossary of Ducange . 
See the capitulation of Palermo in Malaterra , l . 
John Leo Afer , de Medicis et Philosophus Arabibus , c . 
This philosopher is named Esseriph Essachalli , and he died in Africa , A. H. , A. D. . 
and I am afraid of some mistake . 
labors the case with the diligence of a Sicilian lawyer . 
A Greek , who styled himself the father of Constantine , soon appeared at Salerno , and related the adventures of his fall and flight . 
His conversations with Robert were frequent and familiar and their mutual promises were justified by the valor of the Normans and the treasures of the East . 
Thirteen hundred knights of Norman race or discipline , formed the sinews of the army , which might be swelled to thirty thousand followers of every denomination . 
Their information is contemporary and authentic , but none of them were eye witnesses of the war . 
in the xith century , and whose ancestors in the xth and ixth are explored by the critical industry of Leibnitz and Muratori . 
From the two elder sons of the marquis Azzo are derived the illustrious lines of Brunswick and Este . 
See Muratori , Antichita Estense . 
Anna Comnena , somewhat too wantonly , praises and bewails that handsome boy , who , after the rupture of his barbaric nuptials , was betrothed as her husband . 
Elsewhere she describes the red and white of his skin , his hawk's eyes , c . 
Malaterra is more cautious in his style but the Apulian is bold and positive . 
Mentitus se Michaelem Venerata Danais quidam seductor ad illum . 
As Gregory VII had believed , Baronius almost alone , recognizes the emperor Michael . 
styles the equestris gens ducis , equites de gente ducis . 
and her account tallies with the number and lading of the ships . 
Ivit in Dyrrachium cum xv . 
I have endeavored to reconcile these reckonings . 
At the mouth of the Adriatic Gulf , the shores of Italy and Epirus incline towards each other . 
They passed and landed without perceiving an enemy and this successful experiment displayed the neglect and decay of the naval power of the Greeks . 
The islands of Epirus and the maritime towns were subdued by the arms or the name of Robert , who led his fleet and army from Corfu to the siege of Durazzo . 
In the prosecution of his enterprise , the courage of Guiscard was assailed by every form of danger and mischance . 
The Normans were no longer the bold and experienced mariners who had explored the ocean from Greenland to Mount Atlas , and who smiled at the petty dangers of the Mediterranean . 
They had wept during the tempest they were alarmed by the hostile approach of the Venetians , who had been solicited by the prayers and promises of the Byzantine court . 
The first day's action was not disadvantageous to Bohemond , a beardless youth , who led the naval powers of his father . 
amounted to ten thousand persons . 
But his industry and valor were encountered by equal valor and more perfect industry . 
Hermolaus Barbarus , who substitutes centum . 
might have been corrected by every Venetian pilot who had sailed out of the gulf . 
Infames scopulos Acroceraunia , Horat . 
Yet the Normans shaved , and the Venetians wore , their beards they must have derided the no beard of Bohemond a harsh interpretation . 
The strength of the Greek army consisted in the Varangians , the Scandinavian guards , whose numbers were recently augmented by a colony of exiles and volunteers from the British Island of Thule . 
The treaty with the sultan had procured a supply of some thousand Turks and the arrows of the Scythian horse were opposed to the lances of the Norman cavalry . 
On the report and distant prospect of these formidable numbers , Robert assembled a council of his principal officers . 
You behold , said he , your danger it is urgent and inevitable . 
The hills are covered with arms and standards and the emperor of the Greeks is accustomed to wars and triumphs . 
Obedience and union are our only safety and I am ready to yield the command to a more worthy leader . 
Let us burn our vessels and our baggage , and give battle on this spot , as if it were the place of our nativity and our burial . 
The resolution was unanimously approved and , without confining himself to his lines , Guiscard awaited in battle array the nearer approach of the enemy . 
compose the Greek army of , men , but that the hundred may be struck off , and that Malaterra reckons only , a slight inattention . 
More locustarum montes et pianna teguntur . 
See William of Malmsbury , de Gestis Anglorum , l . 
Alexius fidem Anglorum suspiciens praecipuis familiaritatibus suis eos applicabat , amorem eorum filio transcribens . 
relates their emigration from England , and their service in Greece . 
The character and the story of these Manichaeans has been the subject of the livth chapter . 
did not live to analyze these operations , as he has done the campaigns of Africa and Spain . 
In the first onset , the battle axes of the strangers made a deep and bloody impression on the army of Guiscard , which was now reduced to fifteen thousand men . 
On the verge of ruin , they were saved by the spirit and conduct of their chiefs . 
A multitude of Italians had been the victims of their own fears but only thirty of his knights were slain in this memorable day . 
qui combattoit comme une Pallas , quoiqu'elle ne fut pas aussi savante que celle d'Athenes . 
admires , with some degree of terror , her masculine virtues . 
mentions her presence and her wound , he represents her as far less intrepid . 
Uxor in hoc bello Roberti forte sagitta Quadam laesa fuit quo vulnere territa nullam . 
Dum sperabat opem , se poene subegerat hosti . 
The last is an unlucky word for a female prisoner . 
The pedantry of the princess in the choice of classic appellations encouraged Ducange to apply to his countrymen the characters of the ancient Gauls . 
After their defeat , they still persevered in the defence of Durazzo and a Venetian commander supplied the place of George Palaeologus , who had been imprudently called away from his station . 
Perhaps he already trusted to his secret correspondence with a Venetian noble , who sold the city for a rich and honorable marriage . 
At the dead of night , several rope ladders were dropped from the walls the light Calabrians ascended in silence and the Greeks were awakened by the name and trumpets of the conqueror . 
Yet they defended the streets three days against an enemy already master of the rampart and near seven months elapsed between the first investment and the final surrender of the place . 
A more pressing duty suspended the prosecution of his ambitious designs . 
Yet a just praise must not be refused to the fortitude and prudence of Alexius , who bravely struggled with the calamities of the times . 
In the neighborhood of Larissa the events of war were protracted and balanced . 
Alexius returned to Constantinople with the advantage , rather than the honor , of victory . 
bore some affinity to hardness . 
By these similes , so different from those of Homer she wishes to inspire contempt as well as horror for the little noxious animal , a conqueror . 
Most unfortunately , the common sense , or common nonsense , of mankind , resists her laudable design . 
Prodiit hac auctor Trojanae cladis Achilles . 
Larissaeus Achilles , but it is not justified by the geography of Homer . 
Ducange has explained the true sense by a ridiculous and inconvenient fashion , which lasted from the xith to the xvth century . 
These peaks , in the form of a scorpion , were sometimes two feet and fastened to the knee with a silver chain . 
Chapter LVI The Saracens , The Franks And The Normans . 
The epistle of the Greek monarch to his brother is filled with the warmest professions of friendship , and the most lively desire of strengthening their alliance by every public and private tie . 
He congratulates Henry on his success in a just and pious war and complains that the prosperity of his own empire is disturbed by the audacious enterprises of the Norman Robert . 
Henry was the severe adversary of the Normans , the allies and vassals of Gregory the Seventh , his implacable foe . 
After the defeat and death of his Swabian rebel , Henry descended into Italy , to assume the Imperial crown , and to drive from the Vatican the tyrant of the church . 
In the fourth year he corrupted , as it is said , with Byzantine gold , the nobles of Rome , whose estates and castles had been ruined by the war . 
The ruins of the Septizonium were still defended by the nephew of Gregory the pope himself was invested in the castle of St . 
Angelo and his last hope was in the courage and fidelity of his Norman vassal . 
But the triumph of Robert was clouded by the calamities of Rome . 
From a city , where he was now hated , and might be no longer feared , Gregory retired to end his days in the palace of Salerno . 
well deserves to be read . 
There is one expression which Ducange does not understand . 
by a flash of lightning . 
For these general events I must refer to the general historians Sigonius , Baronius , Muratori , Mosheim , St . 
The lives of Gregory VII . 
and his miraculous or magical performances are alike incredible to a modern reader . 
That pope was undoubtedly a great man , a second Athanasius , in a more fortunate age of the church . 
with which I am the least dissatisfied ? Note There is a fair life of Gregory VII . 
by Voigt , which has been translated into French . 
M. Villemain , it is understood , has devoted much time to the study of this remarkable character , to whom his eloquence may do justice . 
There is much valuable information on the subject in the accurate work of Stenzel , Geschichte Deutschlands unter den Frankischen Kaisern the History of Germany under the Emperors of the Franconian Race . 
Sic uno tempore victi Sunt terrae Domini duo rex Alemannicus iste , Imperii rector Romani maximus ille . 
Alter ad arma ruens armis superatur et alter Nominis auditi sola formidine cessit . 
is authentic , circumstantial , and fair . 
Dux ignem exclamans urbe incensa , c . 
The zeal or gratitude of Gregory had promised to his valor the kingdoms of Greece and Asia his troops were assembled in arms , flushed with success , and eager for action . 
Their services were liberally paid by the license or monopoly of trade , a profitable gift of many shops and houses in the port of Constantinople , and a tribute to St . 
Mark , the more acceptable , as it was the produce of a tax on their rivals at Amalphi . 
This premature death might allow a boundless scope for the imagination of his future exploits and the event sufficiently declares , that the Norman greatness was founded on his life . 
Without the appearance of an enemy , a victorious army dispersed or retreated in disorder and consternation and Alexius , who had trembled for his empire , rejoiced in his deliverance . 
The national tranquillity was disturbed by his claims , till the first crusade against the infidels of the East opened a more splendid field of glory and conquest . 
Romani regni sibi promisisse coronam Papa ferebatur . 
Nor can I understand why Gretser , and the other papal advocates , should be displeased with this new instance of apostolic jurisdiction . 
In her turn , she invents or magnifies a fourth action , to give the Venetians revenge and rewards . 
The most authentic writers , William of Apulia . 
and the latter can tell , how the just Alexius married , crowned , and burnt alive , his female accomplice . 
hostibus recedentibus libera laeta quievit Apulia tota sive Calabria turbatur . 
inserts an epitaph on Guiscard , which is not worth transcribing . 
are unworthy of his age and genius . 
and the historians of the fire crusade . 
Of human life , the most glorious or humble prospects are alike and soon bounded by the sepulchre . 
But the ambition of the great count was ignorant of these noble pursuits it was gratified by the vulgar means of violence and artifice . 
The sacred spot of Benevento was respectfully spared , as the patrimony of St . 
Peter but the reduction of Capua and Naples completed the design of his uncle Guiscard and the sole inheritance of the Norman conquests was possessed by the victorious Roger . 
Bernard , were united for the ruin of the Sicilian robber . 
and is spread over the ixth and xth volumes of the Italian Annals of Muratori . 
I find a useful abstract of Capacelatro , a modern Neapolitan , who has composed , in two volumes , the history of his country from Roger Frederic II . 
According to the testimony of Philistus and Diodorus , the tyrant Dionysius of Syracuse could maintain a standing force of , horse , , foot , and galleys . 
The ruins of Agrigentum are the theme of every traveller , D'Orville , Reidesel , Swinburne , c . 
The kings of France , England , Scotland , Castille , Arragon , Navarre , Sweden , Denmark , and Hungary . 
are ignorant of the use of trumpets . 
Most ignorant himself ! Note Cinnamus says nothing of their ignorance . 
M As a penance for his impious war against the successor of St . 
Peter , that monarch might have promised to display the banner of the cross , and he accomplished with ardor a vow so propitious to his interest and revenge . 
After his death , that sword was broken and these transmarine possessions were neglected , evacuated , or lost , under the troubled reign of his successor . 
See De Guignes , Hist . 
Generate des Huns , tom . 
, sous la Domination des Arabes tom . 
Their common original appears to be Novairi . 
urbs fortis , saxeo muro vallata , sita prope littus maris Hanc expugnavit Rogerius , qui mulieribus captivis ductis , viros pere mit . 
the viith book of Thuanus , and the xith of the Abbe de Vertot . 
The possession and defence of the place was offered by Charles V. and wisely declined by the knights of Malta . 
Appulus et Calaber , Siculus mihi servit et Afer . 
A proud inscription , which denotes , that the Norman conquerors were still discriminated from their Christian and Moslem subjects . 
ascribes these losses to the neglect or treachery of the admiral Majo . 
Since the decease of Robert Guiscard , the Normans had relinquished , above sixty years , their hostile designs against the empire of the East . 
Of the wrongs of Athens , no memorial remains . 
The progress of this naval armament was marked by two conspicuous events , the rescue of the king of France , and the insult of the Byzantine capital . 
In his return by sea from an unfortunate crusade , Louis the Seventh was intercepted by the Greeks , who basely violated the laws of honor and religion . 
The fortunate encounter of the Norman fleet delivered the royal captive and after a free and honorable entertainment in the court of Sicily , Louis continued his journey to Rome and Paris . 
In the absence of the emperor , Constantinople and the Hellespont were left without defence and without the suspicion of danger . 
were astonished and dismayed at the hostile appearance of a line of galleys , which boldly cast anchor in the front of the Imperial city . 
To this imperfect capture and speedy rescue I apply Cinnamus , l . 
transforms them , and adds , that Manuel styled this insult . 
These arrows , by the compiler , Vincent de Beauvais , are again transmuted into gold . 
Chapter LVI The Saracens , The Franks And The Normans . 
Part V. A prince of such a temper could not be satisfied with having repelled the insolence of a Barbarian . 
The majesty of the purple , and a series of Hungarian and Turkish wars , prevented Manuel from embarking his person in the Italian expedition . 
With this view , he solicited the alliance of the people and the bishop of Rome . 
During the quarrel between Frederic and Alexander the Third , the pope twice received in the Vatican the ambassadors of Constantinople . 
who introduces a diffuse narrative by a lofty profession , iii . 
claims a promise of restitution from Conrad and Frederic . 
An act of fraud is always credible when it is told of the Greeks . 
Quod Ancontiani Graecum imperium nimis diligerent . 
Veneti speciali odio Anconam oderunt . 
is susceptible of this double sense . 
A standard is more Latin , an image more Greek . 
His second embassy was accompanied cum immensa multitudine pecuniarum . 
But these Italian conquests , this universal reign , soon escaped from the hand of the Greek emperor . 
The free cities of Lombardy no longer remembered their foreign benefactor , and without preserving the friendship of Ancona , he soon incurred the enmity of Venice . 
By his own avarice , or the complaints of his subjects , the Greek emperor was provoked to arrest the persons , and confiscate the effects , of the Venetian merchants . 
The Greeks accuse and magnify the wanton and sacrilegious cruelties that were perpetrated in the sack of Thessalonica , the second city of the empire . 
The former deplore the fate of those invincible but unsuspecting warriors who were destroyed by the arts of a vanquished foe . 
In his vith book , Cinnamus describes the Venetian war , which Nicetas has not thought worthy of his attention . 
The Italian accounts , which do not satisfy our curiosity , are reported by the annalist Muratori , under the years , c . 
But the Greek is fond of description , and the Latin historian is not fond of William the Bad . 
It is difficult to affirm , whether these Greeks deceived themselves , or the public , in these flattering portraits of the grandeur of the empire . 
as they are published in the viith tome of Muratori's historians . 
The king of Sicily sent his troops contra nequitiam Andronici . 
ad acquirendum imperium C. P. They were . 
decepti captique , by Isaac . 
who now becomes a respectable contemporary . 
As he survived the emperor and the empire , he is above flattery but the fall of Constantinople exasperated his prejudices against the Latins . 
For the honor of learning I shall observe that Homer's great commentator , Eustathias archbishop of Thessalonica , refused to desert his flock . 
I see the massacre or captivity of our citizens , the rapes of our virgins and matrons . 
Should Calabria be lost , the lofty towers , the numerous youth , and the naval strength , of Messina , might guard the passage against a foreign invader . 
If the two nations , under one king , can unite for their common safety , they may rush on the Barbarians with invincible arms . 
I can only regret the narrow and barren field on which his labors have been cast . 
are of opinion , that the true name of Falcandus is Fulcandus , or Foucault . 
According to them , Hugues Foucalt , a Frenchman by birth , and at length abbot of St . 
Denys , had followed into Sicily his patron Stephen de la Perche , uncle to the mother of William II . 
, archbishop of Palermo , and great chancellor of the kingdom . 
appears to indicate that he was born , or at least educated , in the island . 
Germano begins his history from the death and praises of William II . 
Intuari mihi jam videor turbulentas bar barorum acies . 
In Apulis , qui , semper novitate gaudentes , novarum rerum studiis aguntur , nihil arbitror spei aut fiduciae reponendum . 
Si civium tuorum virtutem et audaciam attendas , . 
muriorum etiam ambitum densis turribus circumseptum . 
Cum erudelitate piratica Theutonum confligat atrocitas , et inter aucbustos lapides , et Aethnae flagrant's incendia , c . 
Eam partem , quam nobilissimarum civitatum fulgor illustrat , quae et toti regno singulari meruit privilegio praeminere , nefarium esset . 
I wish to transcribe his florid , but curious , description , of the palace , city , and luxuriant plain of Palermo . 
Vires non suppetunt , et conatus tuos tam inopia civium , quam paucitas bellatorum elidunt . 
The Normans and Sicilians appear to be confounded . 
After his decease , the kingdom of his widow and infant son fell without a struggle and Henry pursued his victorious march from Capua to Palermo . 
By the policy of Frederic the Second , sixty thousand Saracens were transplanted to Nocera in Apulia . 
All the calamities which the prophetic orator had deplored were surpassed by the cruelty and avarice of the German conqueror . 
The priests and pilgrims , who returned from Rome , exalted , by every tale , the omnipotence of the holy father . 
and of the originals , in Muratori's Collection , Richard de St . 
The last of these insinuates that , in reducing the Saracens of Nocera , Charles II . 
of Anjou employed rather artifice than violence . 
See the end of the first book of the Life of Alexius , in Nicetas , p . 
Reperit thesauros absconditos , et omnem lapidum pretiosorum et gemmarum gloriam , ita ut oneratis somariis , gloriose ad terram suam redierit . 
On these occasions , I am almost tempted to exclaim with the listening maid in La Fontaine , Je voudrois bien avoir ce qui manque . 
Part I. The Turks Of The House Of Seljuk . 
Their Revolt Against Mahmud Conqueror Of Hindostan . 
Togrul Subdues Persia , And Protects The Caliphs . 
Defeat And Captivity Of The Emperor Romanus Diogenes By Alp Arslan . 
Power And Magnificence Of Malek Shah . 
Conquest Of Asia Minor And Syria . 
State And Oppression Of Jerusalem . 
Pilgrimages To The Holy Sepulchre . 
One of the greatest of the Turkish princes was Mahmood or Mahmud , the Gaznevide , who reigned in the eastern provinces of Persia , one thousand years after the birth of Christ . 
His father Sebectagi was the slave of the slave of the slave of the commander of the faithful . 
The second rank was that of a minister of state , a lieutenant of the Samanides , who broke , by his revolt , the bonds of political slavery . 
The falling dynasty of the Samanides was at first protected , and at last overthrown , by their servants and , in the public disorders , the fortune of Mahmud continually increased . 
But the principal source of his fame and riches was the holy war which he waged against the Gentoos of Hindostan . 
In this foreign narrative I may not consume a page and a volume would scarcely suffice to recapitulate the battles and sieges of his twelve expeditions . 
The pagoda of Sumnat was situate on the promontory of Guzarat , in the neighborhood of Diu , one of the last remaining possessions of the Portuguese . 
By this challenge , the faith of Mahmud was animated to a personal trial of the strength of this Indian deity . 
Your reasons , replied the sultan , are specious and strong but never in the eyes of posterity shall Mahmud appear as a merchant of idols . 
He repeated his blows , and a treasure of pearls and rubies , concealed in the belly of the statue , explained in some degree the devout prodigality of the Brahmins . 
The fragments of the idol were distributed to Gazna , Mecca , and Medina . 
Bagdad listened to the edifying tale and Mahmud was saluted by the caliph with the title of guardian of the fortune and faith of Mahomet . 
Note The European reader now possesses a more accurate version of Ferishta , that of Col . 
Briggs observes , that the author's name will be handed down to posterity as one of the earliest and most indefatigable of our Oriental scholars . 
M. The dynasty of the Samanides continued years , A. D. , under ten princes . 
His divisions of nations often disturbs the series of time and place . 
Gaznah hortos non habet est emporium et domicilium mercaturae Indicae . 
It has not been visited by any modern traveller . 
is familiarly employed in the Greek and Latin languages , after it had passed from the Gaznevides to the Seljukides , and other emirs of Asia and Egypt . 
an anticipation of Zonaras , c . 
mentions the report of a gun in the Indian army . 
use of artillery , I must desire to scrutinize first the text , and then the authority of Ferishta , who lived in the Mogul court in the last century . 
long after which , it was first applied to the purposes of war . 
is marked in latitude Degrees Minutes , longitude Degrees Minutes . 
jewellers , , shops for the arreca nut , , bands of musicians , c . 
will allow an ample deduction . 
concur in identifying Palimbothra with the Patalipara of the Indians the Patna of the moderns . 
and Rennel's Map of Hindostan . 
Ferishta says , some crores of gold . 
Dow says , in a note at the bottom of the page , ten millions , which is the explanation of the word crore . 
Mr. Gibbon says rashly that the sum offered by the Brahmins was ten millions sterling . 
Note to Mill's India , vol . 
Briggs's translation is a quantity of gold . 
M. Rather than the idol broker , he chose to be called Mahmud the idol breaker . 
I cannot refuse to turn aside to gather some flowers of science or virtue . 
I. As he sat in the Divan , an unhappy subject bowed before the throne to accuse the insolence of a Turkish soldier who had driven him from his house and bed . 
Suspend your clamors , said Mahmud inform me of his next visit , and ourself in person will judge and punish the offender . 
The poor man , whose injury he had avenged , was unable to suppress his astonishment and curiosity and the courteous monarch condescended to explain the motives of this singular behavior . 
My prayer was a thanksgiving on the discovery of the offender and so painful was my anxiety , that I had passed three days without food since the first moment of your complaint . 
During the life of my husband , said the artful regent , I was ever apprehensive of your ambition he was a prince and a soldier worthy of your arms . 
He is now no more his sceptre has passed to a woman and a child , and you dare not attack their infancy and weakness . 
How inglorious would be your conquest , how shameful your defeat ! and yet the event of war is in the hand of the Almighty . 
Avarice was the only defect that tarnished the illustrious character of Mahmud and never has that passion been more richly satiated . 
His behavior , in the last days of his life , evinces the vanity of these possessions , so laboriously won , so dangerously held , and so inevitably lost . 
The following day he reviewed the state of his military force one hundred thousand foot , fifty five thousand horse , and thirteen hundred elephants of battle . 
He again wept the instability of human greatness and his grief was imbittered by the hostile progress of the Turkmans , whom he had introduced into the heart of his Persian kingdom . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
Yet these letters apothegms , c . 
, are rarely the language of the heart , or the motives of public action . 
or from that note he may correct these stories . 
Their wandering life maintains the spirit and exercise of arms they fight on horseback and their courage is displayed in frequent contests with each other and with their neighbors . 
For the license of pasture they pay a slight tribute to the sovereign of the land but the domestic jurisdiction is in the hands of the chiefs and elders . 
The first emigration of the Eastern Turkmans , the most ancient of the race , may be ascribed to the tenth century of the Christian aera . 
He was admonished of his error by the chief of the race of Seljuk , who dwelt in the territory of Bochara . 
The sultan had inquired what supply of men he could furnish for military service . 
If you send , replied Ismael , one of these arrows into our camp , fifty thousand of your servants will mount on horseback . 
And if that number , continued Mahmud , should not be sufficient ? Send this second arrow to the horde of Balik , and you will find fifty thousand more . 
But the face of the country was an object of temptation rather than terror and the vigor of government was relaxed by the absence and death of the sultan of Gazna . 
Massoud , the son and successor of Mahmud , had too long neglected the advice of his wisest Omrahs . 
Massoud , says the Persian historian , plunged singly to oppose the torrent of gleaming arms , exhibiting such acts of gigantic force and valor as never king had before displayed . 
The Gaznevide was abandoned by the cowardice or treachery of some generals of Turkish race and this memorable day of Zendecan founded in Persia the dynasty of the shepherd kings . 
and a valuable note by the editor of the Histoire Genealogique des Tatars , p . 
I have copied this passage as a specimen of the Persian manner but I suspect that , by some odd fatality , the style of Ferishta has been improved by that of Ossian . 
Note Gibbon's conjecture was well founded . 
Compare the more sober and genuine version of Col . 
a small town of Chorasan , two days' journey from Maru , and renowned through the East for the production and manufacture of cotton . 
have confounded , in this revolution , the truth of time and place , of names and persons , of causes and events . 
may inspire some distrust of the story of Cyaxares and Cyrus , as it is told by their most eloquent predecessor . 
For a daring intrusion into the harem of his prince . 
The blind determination of chance was justified by the virtues of the successful candidate . 
It would be superfluous to praise the valor of a Turk and the ambition of Togrul was equal to his valor . 
In the West he annihilated the dynasty of the Bowides and the sceptre of Irak passed from the Persian to the Turkish nation . 
The northern swarms of Barbarians , who overspread both Europe and Asia , have been irreconcilably separated by the consequences of a similar conduct . 
But the triumph of the Koran is more pure and meritorious , as it was not assisted by any visible splendor of worship which might allure the Pagans by some resemblance of idolatry . 
The divination by arrows is ancient and famous in the East . 
we quote in their favor the most weighty evidence of a Tartar prince himself , the descendant of Zingis , Alankavah , or Alancu , and Oguz Khan . 
By a slight corruption , Togrul Beg is the Tangroli pix of the Greeks . 
With their usual knowledge of Oriental affairs , they describe the ambassador as a sherif , who , like the syncellus of the patriarch , was the vicar and successor of the caliph . 
From William of Tyre I have borrowed this distinction of Turks and Turkmans , which at least is popular and convenient . 
The names are the same , and the addition of man is of the same import in the Persic and Teutonic idioms . 
of Turcomani , quesi Turci et Comani , a mixed people . 
Generale des Huns , tom . 
M. DeGognes Abulmahasen , an historian of Egypt . 
With the belief of the Koran , the son of Seljuk imbibed a lively reverence for the successor of the prophet . 
Mahmud the Gaznevide had declared himself in favor of the line of Abbas and had treated with indignity the robe of honor which was presented by the Fatimite ambassador . 
Yet the ungrateful Hashemite had changed with the change of fortune he applauded the victory of Zendecan , and named the Seljukian sultan his temporal vicegerent over the Moslem world . 
In the palace of Bagdad , the commander of the faithful still slumbered , a venerable phantom . 
The Turkish sultan embarked on the Tigris , landed at the gate of Racca , and made his public entry on horseback . 
At the palace gate he respectfully dismounted , and walked on foot , preceded by his emirs without arms . 
The caliph was seated behind his black veil the black garment of the Abbassides was cast over his shoulders , and he held in his hand the staff of the apostle of God . 
The conqueror of the East kissed the ground , stood some time in a modest posture , and was led towards the throne by the vizier and interpreter . 
After Togrul had seated himself on another throne , his commission was publicly read , which declared him the temporal lieutenant of the vicar of the prophet . 
He was successively invested with seven robes of honor , and presented with seven slaves , the natives of the seven climates of the Arabian empire . 
Their alliance was cemented by the marriage of Togrul's sister with the successor of the prophet . 
Yet in this revolution , the Abbassides acquired a larger measure of liberty and power . 
Consult the Bibliotheque Orientale , in the articles of the Abbassides , Caher , and Caiem , and the Annals of Elmacin and Abulpharagius . 
and that learned author is obliged to Bondari , who composed in Arabic the history of the Seljukides , tom . 
) I am ignorant of his age , country , and character . 
According to Von Hammer , crowns are incorrect . 
They are unknown as a symbol of royalty in the East . 
V. Hammer , Osmanische Geschischte , vol . 
rex fuit clemens , prudens , et peritus regnandi , cujus terror corda mortalium invaserat , ita ut obedirent ei reges atque ad ipsum scriberent . 
Note He died , being years old . 
M. Chapter LVII The Turks . 
Yet the arms of Togrul did not make any deep or lasting impression on the Greek empire . 
The final conquest of Armenia and Georgia was achieved by Alp Arslan . 
The change , however , was not sincere or universal and , through ages of servitude , the Georgians have maintained the succession of their princes and bishops . 
For these wars of the Turks and Romans , see in general the Byzantine histories of Zonaras and Cedrenus , Scylitzes the continuator of Cedrenus , and Nicephorus Bryennius Caesar . 
The two first of these were monks , the two latter statesmen yet such were the Greeks , that the difference of style and character is scarcely discernible . 
and Orientals , and was devoutly borrowed from St . 
the manners and religion of this handsome but worthless nation . 
The false or genuine magnanimity of Mahmud the Gaznevide was not imitated by Alp Arslan and he attacked without scruple the Greek empress Eudocia and her children . 
His alarming progress compelled her to give herself and her sceptre to the hand of a soldier and Romanus Diogenes was invested with the Imperial purple . 
By his spirit and success the soldiers were taught to act , the subjects to hope , and the enemies to fear . 
In three laborious campaigns , the Turks were driven beyond the Euphrates in the fourth and last , Romanus undertook the deliverance of Armenia . 
His army amounted , at the least , to one hundred thousand men . 
describes Malasgerd as a small town , built with black stone , supplied with water , without trees , c . 
They appear on the Danube and the Volga , and Armenia , Syria , and Chorasan , and the name seems to have been extended to the whole Turkman race . 
has labored the subject in honor of the president de Bailleul , whose father had exchanged the sword for the gown . 
On the report of this bold invasion , which threatened his hereditary dominions , Alp Arslan flew to the scene of action at the head of forty thousand horse . 
The imprudence of the emperor had separated his forces after the reduction of Malazkerd . 
In this desultory and fruitless combat he spent the greater part of a summer's day , till prudence and fatigue compelled him to return to his camp . 
The Turkish squadrons poured a cloud of arrows on this moment of confusion and lassitude and the horns of their formidable crescent were closed in the rear of the Greeks . 
In the destruction of the army and pillage of the camp , it would be needless to mention the number of the slain or captives . 
The Byzantine writers deplore the loss of an inestimable pearl they forgot to mention , that in this fatal day the Asiatic provinces of Rome were irretrievably sacrificed . 
and by D'Herbelot to , horse . 
But the same Elmacin gives , met to the emperor , of whom Abulpharagius says , Cum centum hominum millibus , multisque equis et magna pompa instructus . 
The Greeks abstain from any definition of numbers . 
The Byzantine writers do not speak so distinctly of the presence of the sultan he committed his forces to a eunuch , had retired to a distance , c . 
Yet he owns his enmity to Romanus . 
Scylitzes speaks more explicitly of his treason . 
As long as a hope survived , Romanus attempted to rally and save the relics of his army . 
They fell around him his horse was slain the emperor was wounded yet he stood alone and intrepid , till he was oppressed and bound by the strength of multitudes . 
Despoiled of his arms , his jewels , and his purple , Romanus spent a dreary and perilous night on the field of battle , amidst a disorderly crowd of the meaner Barbarians . 
The successor of Constantine , in a plebeian habit , was led into the Turkish divan , and commanded to kiss the ground before the lord of Asia . 
He reluctantly obeyed and Alp Arslan , starting from his throne , is said to have planted his foot on the neck of the Roman emperor . 
In the preliminaries of negotiation , Alp Arslan asked him what treatment he expected to receive , and the calm indifference of the emperor displays the freedom of his mind . 
Had I vanquished , he fiercely said , I would have inflicted on thy body many a stripe . 
This circumstance , which we read and doubt in Scylitzes and Constantine Manasses , is more prudently omitted by Nicephorus and Zonaras . 
Wilken , Geschichte der Kreuz zuge , vol . 
M. The ransom and tribute are attested by reason and the Orientals . 
The other Greeks are modestly silent but Nicephorus Bryennius dares to affirm , that the terms were bad and that the emperor would have preferred death to a shameful treaty . 
The defeat and captivity of Romanus Diogenes may be found in John Scylitzes ad calcem Cedreni , tom . 
The fairest part of Asia was subject to his laws twelve hundred princes , or the sons of princes , stood before his throne and two hundred thousand soldiers marched under his banners . 
The sultan disdained to pursue the fugitive Greeks but he meditated the more glorious conquest of Turkestan , the original seat of the house of Seljuk . 
He moved from Bagdad to the banks of the Oxus a bridge was thrown over the river and twenty days were consumed in the passage of his troops . 
But the progress of the great king was retarded by the governor of Berzem and Joseph the Carizmian presumed to defend his fortress against the powers of the East . 
The wound was mortal and the Turkish prince bequeathed a dying admonition to the pride of kings . 
In my youth , said Alp Arslan , I was advised by a sage to humble myself before God to distrust my own strength and never to despise the most contemptible foe . 
I have neglected these lessons and my neglect has been deservedly punished . 
These armies are no longer mine and , in the confidence of my personal strength , I now fall by the hand of an assassin . 
The annihilation of the inscription , and the tomb itself , more forcibly proclaims the instability of human greatness . 
During the life of Alp Arslan , his eldest son had been acknowledged as the future sultan of the Turks . 
On the eve of the battle , he performed his devotions at Thous , before the tomb of the Imam Riza . 
The favorable judgment of heaven was ratified by the caliph and for the first time , the sacred title of Commander of the Faithful was communicated to a Barbarian . 
But this Barbarian , by his personal merit , and the extent of his empire , was the greatest prince of his age . 
After the settlement of Persia and Syria , he marched at the head of innumerable armies to achieve the conquest of Turkestan , which had been undertaken by his father . 
In his passage of the Oxus , the boatmen , who had been employed in transporting some troops , complained , that their payment was assigned on the revenues of Antioch . 
The sultan frowned at this preposterous choice but he miled at the artful flattery of his vizier . 
Instead of resigning himself to the luxury of his harem , the shepherd king , both in peace and war , was in action and in the field . 
The sultan bestowed a more serious and learned care on the reformation of the calendar , which was effected by a general assembly of the astronomers of the East . 
has added the usual measure of repetition emendation , and supplement . 
Without those two learned Frenchmen I should be blind indeed in the Eastern world . 
See an excellent discourse at the end of Sir William Jones's History of Nadir Shah , and the articles of the poets , Amak , Anvari , Raschidi , c . 
, in the Bibliotheque Orientale . 
His name was Kheder Khan . 
I suspect that the beginning , not the end , of the xith century is the true aera of his reign . 
See Chardin , Voyages en Perse , tom . 
is fixed to the xvth of March , A. H. , A. D. . 
In a period when Europe was plunged in the deepest barbarism , the light and splendor of Asia may be ascribed to the docility rather than the knowledge of the Turkish conquerors . 
An ample share of their wisdom and virtue is due to a Persian vizier , who ruled the empire under the reigns of Alp Arslan and his son . 
After an administration of thirty years , the fame of the vizier , his wealth , and even his services , were transformed into crimes . 
The feeble successor of Mahomet obtained a respite of ten days and before the expiration of the term , the Barbarian was summoned by the angel of death . 
He was the first great victim of his enemy , Hassan Sabek , founder of the Assassins . 
Von Hammer , Geschichte der Assassinen , p . 
M. She speaks of this Persian royalty . 
The greatness and unity of the Turkish empire expired in the person of Malek Shah . 
! See Von Hammer , Osmanische Geschichte , vol . 
the history , or rather list , of the Seljukides of Kerman , in Bibliotheque Orientale . 
They were extinguished before the end of the xiith century . 
and that the two sons of Soliman were detained in his court , p . 
from some poet , most probably a Persian . 
His five sons , strong in arms , ambitious of power , and eager for revenge , unsheathed their cimeters against the son of Alp Arslan . 
The two armies expected the signal when the caliph , forgetful of the majesty which secluded him from vulgar eyes , interposed his venerable mediation . 
Wilken considers Cutulmish not a Turkish name . 
Geschicht Kreuz zuge , vol . 
M. On the conquest of Asia Minor , M. De Guignes has derived no assistance from the Turkish or Arabian writers , who produce a naked list of the Seljukides of Roum . 
Since the first conquests of the caliphs , the establishment of the Turks in Anatolia or Asia Minor was the most deplorable loss which the church and empire had sustained . 
performed a march of six hundred miles . 
Antioch was oppressed by the speed and secrecy of his enterprise and the dependent cities , as far as Laodicea and the confines of Aleppo , obeyed the example of the metropolis . 
From Laodicea to the Thracian Bosphorus , or arm of St . 
George , the conquests and reign of Soliman extended thirty days' journey in length , and in breadth about ten or fifteen , between the rocks of Lycia and the Black Sea . 
His plaintive epistles were dispersed over Europe , to excite the compassion of the Latins , and to paint the danger , the weakness , and the riches of the city of Constantine . 
It is odd enough , that we should find a parallel passage of the same people in the present age . 
Quelque Sipahis ont porte leurs attentats sur la personne du vieux rabbi de la synagogue , et celle de l'Archeveque Grec . 
The emperor , or abbot describe the scenes of a Turkish camp as if they had been present . 
cum filiae assistentes carmina praecinere saltando cogerentur . 
Mox eadem passio ad filias , c . 
with the notes of Ducange . 
gives the most authentic and deplorable account of these Turkish conquests . 
and paraphrased by the Abbot Guibert , a contemporary historian . 
verbis vestita meis , a privilege of most indefinite latitude . 
But the most interesting conquest of the Seljukian Turks was that of Jerusalem , which soon became the theatre of nations . 
The preeminence was asserted by the spirit and numbers of the Franks and the greatness of Charlemagne protected both the Latin pilgrims and the Catholics of the East . 
The poverty of Carthage , Alexandria , and Jerusalem , was relieved by the alms of that pious emperor and many monasteries of Palestine were founded or restored by his liberal devotion . 
In the decline of the Carlovingian monarchy , the republic of Amalphi promoted the interest of trade and religion in the East . 
John of Jerusalem , the cradle of the monastic and military order , which has since reigned in the isles of Rhodes and of Malta . 
the principal author of the Gesta Dei per Francos . 
M. De Guignes has composed a very learned Memoire sur le Commerce des Francois dans le de Levant avant les Croisades , c . 
The latinity of William of Tyre is by no means contemptible but in his account of years , from the loss to the recovery of Jerusalem , precedes the true account by years . 
for the Venetians and Parisians . 
attests the unbelief of the caliph and the historian yet Cantacuzene presumes to appeal to the Mahometans themselves for the truth of this perpetual miracle . 
In his Dissertations on Ecclesiastical History , the learned Mosheim has separately discussed this pretended miracle , de lumine sancti sepulchri . 
quotes the Itinerary of the monk Bernard , an eye witness , who visited Jerusalem A. D. . 
The miracle is confirmed by another pilgrim some years older and Mosheim ascribes the invention to the Franks , soon after the decease of Charlemagne . 
, describes this extravagant farce . 
The Catholics are puzzled to decide when the miracle ended and the trick began . 
but I will not attempt , with Mosheim , to explain the mode . 
Our travellers have failed with the blood of St . 
The revolution which transferred the sceptre from the Abbassides to the Fatimites was a benefit , rather than an injury , to the Holy Land . 
A sovereign resident in Egypt was more sensible of the importance of Christian trade and the emirs of Palestine were less remote from the justice and power of the throne . 
In the sea voyage of Palestine , the dangers were frequent , and the opportunities rare but the conversion of Hungary opened a safe communication between Germany and Greece . 
Stephen , the apostle of his kingdom , relieved and conducted his itinerant brethren and from Belgrade to Antioch , they traversed fifteen hundred miles of a Christian empire . 
After visiting the holy places , they embarked for Italy , but only a remnant of two thousand arrived in safety in their native land . 
an historian of Egypt , translated by Reiske from Arabic into German , and verbally interpreted to me by a friend . 
The religion of the Druses is concealed by their ignorance and hypocrisy . 
and the second volume of the recent and instructive Travels of M. de Volney . 
Deux tomes , Paris , . 
The learned author has prefixed a life of Hakem Biamr Allah , which enables us to correct several errors in the account of Gibbon . 
These errors chiefly arose from his want of knowledge or of attention to the chronology of Hakem's life . 
Hakem succeeded to the throne of Egypt in the year of the Hegira . 
He did not assume his divinity till . 
His life was indeed a wild mixture of vice and folly , to which may be added , of the most sanguinary cruelty . 
During his reign , , persons were victims of his ferocity . 
All his wildest and most extravagant actions were interpreted by his followers as having a mystic and allegoric meaning , alluding to the destruction of other religions and the propagation of his own . 
It does not seem to have been the vanity of Hakem which induced him to introduce a new religion . 
was content to take a secondary part . 
While Hakem was God , the one Supreme , the Imam Hamza was his Intelligence . 
It was not in his divine character that Hakem hated the Jews and Christians , but in that of a Mahometan bigot , which he displayed in the earlier years of his reign . 
It is another singular fact , that the religion of Hakem was by no means confined to Egypt and Syria . 
The assassination of Hakem is , of course , disbelieved by his sectaries . 
M. de Sacy seems to consider the fact obscure and doubtful . 
According to his followers he disappeared , but is hereafter to return . 
At his return the resurrection is to take place the triumph of Unitarianism , and the final discomfiture of all other religions . 
The temple of Mecca is especially devoted to destruction . 
It is remarkable that one of the signs of this final consummation , and of the reappearance of Hakem , is that Christianity shall be gaining a manifest predominance over Mahometanism . 
The worship of a mad tyrant is the basis of a subtle metaphysical creed , and of a severe , and even ascetic , morality . 
M. See Glaber , l . 
, and the Annals of Baronius and Pagi , A. D. . 
Per idem tempus ex universo orbe tam innumerabilis multitudo coepit confluere ad sepulchrum Salvatoris Hierosolymis , quantum nullus hominum prius sperare poterat . 
mulieres multae nobilis cum pauperioribus . 
Note Compare the first chap . 
of Wilken , Geschichte der Kreuz zuge . 
Stephen founded a monastery at Jerusalem . 
has transcribed the greater part of the original narratives of Ingulphus , Marianus , and Lambertus . 
After the defeat of the Romans , the tranquillity of the Fatimite caliphs was invaded by the Turks . 
One of the lieutenants of Malek Shah , Atsiz the Carizmian , marched into Syria at the head of a powerful army , and reduced Damascus by famine and the sword . 
adds the testimonies , or rather the names , of Abulfeda and Novairi . 
supposes that the city was reduced by a Carizmian general to the obedience of the caliph of Bagdad , A. H. , A. D. . 
, who strives hard to magnify the Christian grievances . 
The Turks exacted an aureus from each pilgrim ! The caphar of the Franks now is fourteen dollars and Europe does not complain of this voluntary tax . 
Chapter LVIII The First Crusade . 
Part I. Origin And Numbers Of The First Crusade . 
Characters Of The Latin Princes . 
Policy Of The Greek Emperor Alexius . 
Conquest Of Nice , Antioch , And Jerusalem , By The Franks . 
Deliverance Of The Holy Sepulchre . 
Godfrey Of Bouillon , First King Of Jerusalem . 
Institutions Of The French Or Latin Kingdom . 
The patriarch exposed the vices and weakness of the successors of Constantine . 
I will rouse , exclaimed the hermit , the martial nations of Europe in your cause and Europe was obedient to the call of the hermit . 
The astonished patriarch dismissed him with epistles of credit and complaint and no sooner did he land at Bari , than Peter hastened to kiss the feet of the Roman pontiff . 
His stature was small , his appearance contemptible but his eye was keen and lively and he possessed that vehemence of speech , which seldom fails to impart the persuasion of the soul . 
and his military service was under the neighboring counts of Boulogne , the heroes of the first crusade . 
In this austere solitude , his body was emaciated , his fancy was inflamed whatever he wished , he believed whatever he believed , he saw in dreams and revelations . 
Invigorated by the approbation of the pontiff , his zealous missionary traversed . 
with speed and success , the provinces of Italy and France . 
was impetuously moved by his call to repentance and arms . 
Whimsical enough is the origin of the name of Picards , and from thence of Picardie , which does not date later than A. D. . 
thus describes the hermit Pusillus , persona contemptibilis , vivacis ingenii , et oculum habeas perspicacem gratumque , et sponte fluens ei non deerat eloquium . 
See Albert Aquensis , p . 
Anna Comnena in Alex isd , l . 
, with Ducarge's Notes , p . 
See the original lives of Urban II . 
by Pandulphus Pisanus and Bernardus Guido , in Muratori , Rer . 
She is known by the different names of Praxes , Eupraecia , Eufrasia , and Adelais and was the daughter of a Russian prince , and the widow of a margrave of Brandenburgh . 
In the synod of Constance , she is described by Bertholdus , rerum inspector quae se tantas et tam inauditas fornicationum spur citias , et a tantis passam fuisse conquesta est , c . 
and again at Placentia satis misericorditer suscepit , eo quod ipsam tantas spurcitias pertulisse pro certo cognoverit papa cum sancta synodo . 
A. D. , No. , , No. . 
A rare subject for the infallible decision of a pope and council . 
These abominations are repugnant to every principle of human nature , which is not altered by a dispute about rings and crosiers . 
Yet it should seem , that the wretched woman was tempted by the priests to relate or subscribe some infamous stories of herself and her husband . 
See the narrative and acts of the synod of Placentia , Concil . 
Guibert , himself a Frenchman , praises the piety and valor of the French nation , the author and example of the crusades Gens nobilis , prudens , bellicosa , dapsilis et nitida . 
and is respectfully quoted by the abbot Suger , in the great Chronicles of St . 
His topics were obvious , his exhortation was vehement , his success inevitable . 
The orator was interrupted by the shout of thousands , who with one voice , and in their rustic idiom , exclaimed aloud , God wills it , God wills it . 
The name and powers of his legate he devolved on Adhemar bishop of Puy , the first who had received the cross at his hands . 
The foremost of the temporal chiefs was Raymond count of Thoulouse , whose ambassadors in the council excused the absence , and pledged the honor , of their master . 
See Etat de la France , by the Count de Boulainvilliers , tom . 
, and the second volume of the Observations sur l'Histoire de France , by the Abbe de Mably . 
In the provinces to the south of the Loire , the first Capetians were scarcely allowed a feudal supremacy . 
On all sides , Normandy , Bretagne , Aquitain , Burgundy , Lorraine , and Flanders , contracted the same and limits of the proper France . 
Notitia Galliarum These counts , a younger branch of the dukes of Aquitain , were at length despoiled of the greatest part of their country by Philip Augustus . 
The bishops of Clermont gradually became princes of the city . 
Melanges , tires d'une grand Bibliotheque , tom . 
See the Acts of the council of Clermont , Concil . 
By the illiterate laity , who spoke the Provincial or Limousin idiom , it was corrupted to Deus lo volt , or Diex el volt . 
, in Muratori , Script . 
Most commonly on their shoulders , in gold , or silk , or cloth sewed on their garments . 
Yet in England , the red ever appears the favorite , and as if were , the national , color of our military ensigns and uniforms . 
I shall briefly enumerate , as they stand in this collection , the authors whom I have used for the first crusade . 
Muratori has given us , IX . 
and most of whose judgments my own experience will allow me to ratify . 
It was late before I could obtain a sight of the French historians collected by Duchesne . 
has been transfused into the first anonymous writer of Bongarsius . 
The Metrical History of the first Crusade , in vii . 
is of small value or account . 
Note Several new documents , particularly from the East , have been collected by the industry of the modern historians of the crusades , M. Michaud and Wilken . 
The policy of an action may be determined from the tardy lessons of experience but , before we act , our conscience should be satisfied of the justice and propriety of our enterprise . 
A pernicious tenet has been imputed to the Mahometans , the duty of extirpating all other religions by the sword . 
This charge of ignorance and bigotry is refuted by the Koran , by the history of the Mussulman conquerors , and by their public and legal toleration of the Christian worship . 
In the eleventh century , the victorious arms of the Turks presented a real and urgent apprehension of these losses . 
They had subdued , in less than thirty years , the kingdoms of Asia , as far as Jerusalem and the Hellespont and the Greek empire tottered on the verge of destruction . 
But this salutary purpose might have been accomplished by a moderate succor and our calmer reason must disclaim the innumerable hosts , and remote operations , which overwhelmed Asia and depopulated Europe . 
Johnson the workings of a bigoted , though vigorous mind , greedy of every pretence to hate and persecute those who dissent from his creed . 
The manner in which the war was conducted surely has little relation to the abstract question of the justice or injustice of the war . 
The most just and necessary war may be conducted with the most prodigal waste of human life , and the wildest fanaticism the most unjust with the coolest moderation and consummate generalship . 
The crusades are monuments of human folly ! but to which of the more regular wars civilized . 
Europe , waged for personal ambition or national jealousy , will our calmer reason appeal as monuments either of human justice or human wisdom ? M. II . 
Palestine could add nothing to the strength or safety of the Latins and fanaticism alone could pretend to justify the conquest of that distant and narrow province . 
Such arguments glance aside from the leaden shield of superstition and the religious mind will not easily relinquish its hold on the sacred ground of mystery and miracle . 
God , says the abbot Guibert , invented the crusades as a new way for the laity to atone for their sins and to merit salvation . 
This extraordinary and characteristic passage must be given entire . 
contains an accurate and rational view of the causes and effects of the crusades . 
As the manners of the Christians were relaxed , their discipline of penance was enforced and with the multiplication of sins , the remedies were multiplied . 
In the primitive church , a voluntary and open confession prepared the work of atonement . 
In the middle ages , the bishops and priests interrogated the criminal compelled him to account for his thoughts , words , and actions and prescribed the terms of his reconciliation with God . 
But as this discretionary power might alternately be abused by indulgence and tyranny , a rule of discipline was framed , to inform and regulate the spiritual judges . 
By a fantastic arithmetic , a year of penance was taxed at three thousand lashes and such was the skill and patience of a famous hermit , St . 
Dominic of the iron Cuirass , that in six days he could discharge an entire century , by a whipping of three hundred thousand stripes . 
His example was followed by many penitents of both sexes and , as a vicarious sacrifice was accepted , a sturdy disciplinarian might expiate on his own back the sins of his benefactors . 
These compensations of the purse and the person introduced , in the eleventh century , a more honorable mode of satisfaction . 
The merit of military service against the Saracens of Africa and Spain had been allowed by the predecessors of Urban the Second . 
The cold philosophy of modern times is incapable of feeling the impression that was made on a sinful and fanatic world . 
His providence would watch over their safety perhaps his visible and miraculous power would smooth the difficulties of their holy enterprise . 
The cloud and pillar of Jehovah had marched before the Israelites into the promised land . 
with this difference , that the abuses of superstition are mildly , perhaps faintly , exposed by the learned Italian , and peevishly magnified by the Dutch minister . 
gives an abstract of the Penitential of Rhegino in the ninth , and of Burchard in the tenth , century . 
In one year , five and thirty murders were perpetrated at Worms . 
Till the xiith century , we may support the clear account of xii . 
denarii , or pence , to the solidus , or shilling and xx . 
solidi to the pound weight of silver , about the pound sterling . 
Our money is diminished to a third , and the French to a fiftieth , of this primitive standard . 
Each century of lashes was sanctified with a recital of a psalm , and the whole Psalter , with the accompaniment of , stripes , was equivalent to five years . 
The Life and Achievements of St . 
Dominic Loricatus was composed by his friend and admirer , Peter Damianus . 
At a quarter , or even half a rial a lash , Sancho Panza was a cheaper , and possibly not a more dishonest , workman . 
a very lively picture of the dexterity of one of these artists . 
Quicunque pro sola devotione , non pro honoris vel pecuniae adoptione , ad liberandam ecclesiam Dei Jerusalem profectus fuerit , iter illud pro omni poenitentia reputetur . 
and is almost philosophical on the subject . 
Note See note , page . 
but the prayer for the repose of their souls is inconsistent in orthodox theology with the merits of martyrdom . 
Chapter LVIII The First Crusade . 
But I am equally persuaded , that in many it was not the sole , that in some it was not the leading , principle of action . 
The use and abuse of religion are feeble to stem , they are strong and irresistible to impel , the stream of national manners . 
Against the private wars of the Barbarians , their bloody tournaments , licentious love , and judicial duels , the popes and synods might ineffectually thunder . 
In the petty quarrels of Europe , they shed the blood of their friends and countrymen , for the acquisition perhaps of a castle or a village . 
In this earthly paradise , each warrior depended on his sword to carve a plenteous and honorable establishment , which he measured only by the extent of his wishes . 
The love of freedom was a powerful incitement to the multitudes who were oppressed by feudal or ecclesiastical tyranny . 
The same hopes were displayed in the letters of the adventurers ad animandos qui in Francia residerant . 
) as if , says the indignant Guibert , the Greek women were handsomer than those of France . 
See the privileges of the Crucesignati , freedom from debt , usury injury , secular justice , c . 
The ignorance , which magnified the hopes , diminished the perils , of the enterprise . 
To defray , according to their rank , the expenses of the road , princes alienated their provinces , nobles their lands and castles , peasants their cattle and the instruments of husbandry . 
The value of property was depreciated by the eager competition of multitudes while the price of arms and horses was raised to an exorbitant height by the wants and impatience of the buyers . 
paints in lively colors this general emotion . 
He was one of the few contemporaries who had genius enough to feel the astonishing scenes that were passing before their eyes . 
Erat itaque videre miraculum , caro omnes emere , atque vili vendere , c . 
The example and footsteps of Peter were closely pursued by another fanatic , the monk Godescal , whose sermons had swept away fifteen or twenty thousand peasants from the villages of Germany . 
were a goose and a goat , who were carried in the front , and to whom these worthy Christians ascribed an infusion of the divine spirit . 
Of these , and of other bands of enthusiasts , the first and most easy warfare was against the Jews , the murderers of the Son of God . 
Note A singular allegoric explanation of this strange fact has recently been broached it is connected with the charge of idolatry and Eastern heretical opinions subsequently made against the Templars . 
We have no doubt that they were Manichee or Gnostic standards . 
The goose , in Egyptian symbols , as every Egyptian scholar knows , meant 'divine Son , or 'Son of God . 
The goat meant Typhon , or Devil . 
Thus we have the Manichee opposing principles of good and evil , as standards , at the head of the ignorant mob of crusading invaders . 
Can any one doubt that a large portion of this host must have been infected with the Manichee or Gnostic idolatry ? Account of the Temple Church by R. W. Billings , p . 
This is , at all events , a curious coincidence , especially considered in connection with the extensive dissemination of the Paulician opinions among the common people of Europe . 
At any rate , in so inexplicable a matter , we are inclined to catch at any explanation , however wild or subtile . 
they had recovered from these massacres . 
These massacres and depredations on the Jews , which were renewed at each crusade , are coolly related . 
It is true , that St . 
admonishes the Oriental Franks , non sunt persequendi Judaei , non sunt trucidandi . 
The contrary doctrine had been preached by a rival monk . 
Note This is an unjust sarcasm against St . 
He stood above all rivalry of this kind See note , c . 
A scanty supply of provisions was rudely demanded , forcibly seized , and greedily consumed and on the first quarrel , the crusaders gave a loose to indignation and revenge . 
But their ignorance of the country , of war , and of discipline , exposed them to every snare . 
They separated in quest of prey , and themselves fell an easy prey to the arts of the sultan . 
See the contemporary description of Hungary in Otho of Frisin gen , l . 
, in Muratori , Script . 
The narrative of the first march is very incorrect . 
The first party moved under Walter de Pexego and Walter the Penniless they passed safe through Hungary , the kingdom of Kalmeny , and were attacked in Bulgaria . 
Peter followed with , men passed through Hungary but seeing the clothes of sixteen crusaders , who had been empaled on the walls of Semlin . 
he attacked and stormed the city . 
He then marched to Nissa , where , at first , he was hospitably received but an accidental quar rel taking place , he suffered a great defeat . 
M. The old Hungarians , without excepting Turotzius , are ill informed of the first crusade , which they involve in a single passage . 
Katona , like ourselves , can only quote the writers of France but he compares with local science the ancient and modern geography . 
Soliman had been killed in , in a battle against Toutoneh , brother of Malek Schah , between Appelo and Antioch . 
It was not Soliman , therefore , but his son David , surnamed Kilidje Arslan , the Sword of the Lion , who reigned in Nice . 
Almost all the occidental authors have fallen into this mistake , which was detected by M. Michaud , Hist . 
aux Croisades , par M. Reinaud Paris , , p . 
His kingdom extended from the Orontes to the Euphra tes , and as far as the Bosphorus . 
Kilidje Arslan must uniformly be substituted for Soliman . 
Brosset note on Le Beau , tom . 
describes this as a mountain . 
In the siege of Nice , such were used by the Franks themselves as the materials of a wall . 
See table on following page . 
To save time and space , I shall represent , in a short table , the particular references to the great events of the first crusade . 
Events Of The First Crusade None of the great sovereigns of Europe embarked their persons in the first crusade . 
The religious ardor was more strongly felt by the princes of the second order , who held an important place in the feudal system . 
as to the royal birth of the brother of the king of France . 
His mind was improved by literature and , in the council of the chiefs , the eloquent Stephen was chosen to discharge the office of their president . 
In the south of France , the command was assumed by Adhemar bishop of Puy , the pope egate , and by Raymond count of St . 
Giles and Thoulouse who added the prouder titles of duke of Narbonne and marquis of Provence . 
The former was a respectable prelate , alike qualified for this world and the next . 
His experience and riches gave him a strong ascendant in the Christian camp , whose distress he was often able , and sometimes willing , to relieve . 
But it was easier for him to extort the praise of the Infidels , than to preserve the love of his subjects and associates . 
If Raymond was the first to enlist and the last to depart , the delay may be excused by the greatness of his preparation and the promise of an everlasting farewell . 
It is in the person of this Norman chief that we may seek for the coolest policy and ambition , with a small allay of religious fanaticism . 
Several princes of the Norman race accompanied this veteran general and his cousin Tancred was the partner , rather than the servant , of the war . 
See , in the Description of France , by the Abbe de Longuerue , the articles of Boulogne , part i . 
On his departure , Godfrey sold or pawned Bouillon to the church for marks . 
See the family character of Godfrey , in William of Tyre , l . 
his sickness and vow in Bernard . 
He pawned the duchy for one hundredth part of the present yearly revenue . 
His original letter to his wife is inserted in the Spicilegium of Dom . 
and quoted in the Esprit des Croisades tom . 
Unius enim duum , trium seu quatuor oppidorum dominos quis numeret ? quorum tanta fuit copia , ut non vix totidem Trojana obsidio coegisse putetur . 
It is singular enough , that Raymond of St . 
provinciales appellabantur , caeteri vero Francigenae et hoc in exercitu inter hostes autem Franci dicebantur . 
Raymond des Agiles , p . 
The town of his birth , or first appanage , was consecrated to St Aegidius , whose name , as early as the first crusade , was corrupted by the French into St . 
The mother of Tancred was Emma , sister of the great Robert Guiscard his father , the Marquis Odo the Good . 
To gratify the childish vanity of the house of Este . 
The distance of sixty years between the youth of the two Rinaldos destroys their identity . 
The Storia Imperiale is a forgery of the Conte Boyardo , at the end of the xvth century , . 
Chapter LVIII The First Crusade . 
George , and of St . 
He swore to accomplish the duties of his profession and education , example , and the public opinion , were the inviolable guardians of his oath . 
The asperity of national prejudice was softened and the community of religion and arms spread a similar color and generous emulation over the face of Christendom . 
In this rapid portrait of chivalry I have been urged to anticipate on the story of the crusades , at once an effect and a cause , of this memorable institution . 
Of the words gentilis , gentilhomme , gentleman , two etymologies are produced . 
From the Barbarians of the fifth century , the soldiers , and at length the conquerors of the Roman empire , who were vain of their foreign nobility and . 
From the sense of the civilians , who consider gentilis as synonymous with ingenuus . 
Selden inclines to the first but the latter is more pure , as well as probable . 
The athletic exercises , particularly the caestus and pancratium , were condemned by Lycurgus , Philopoemen , and Galen , a lawgiver , a general , and a physician . 
Against their authority and reasons , the reader may weigh the apology of Lucian , in the character of Solon . 
See West on the Olympic Games , in his Pindar , vol . 
Such were the troops , and such the leaders , who assumed the cross for the deliverance of the holy sepulchre . 
As soon as they were relieved by the absence of the plebeian multitude , they encouraged each other , by interviews and messages , to accomplish their vow , and hasten their departure . 
On the confines of Hungary he was stopped three weeks by a Christian people , to whom the name , or at least the abuse , of the cross was justly odious . 
After an easy and pleasant journey through Lombardy , from Turin to Aquileia , Raymond and his provincials marched forty days through the savage country of Dalmatia and Sclavonia . 
Bohemond had arms and vessels , and foresight and discipline and his name was not forgotten in the provinces of Epirus and Thessaly . 
The nobles of France pressed forwards with the vain and thoughtless ardor of which their nation has been sometimes accused . 
Peter was delivered to the brother of the French monarch . 
demanded the brother of Godfrey as hostage but Count Baldwin refused the humiliating submission . 
Godfrey shamed him into this sacrifice for the common good by offering to surrender himself Wilken , vol . 
M. The Familiae Dalmaticae of Ducange are meagre and imperfect the national historians are recent and fabulous , the Greeks remote and careless . 
spoliatum cum suis habi tatoribus igne combussere . 
which style the king of France rex regum , and chef de tous les rois Chretiens . 
The promiscuous multitudes of Peter the Hermit were savage beasts , alike destitute of humanity and reason nor was it possible for Alexius to prevent or deplore their destruction . 
The troops of Godfrey and his peers were less contemptible , but not less suspicious , to the Greek emperor . 
But an incurable jealousy still rankled in the minds of the two nations , who despised each other as slaves and Barbarians . 
The same policy was repeated with the succeeding chiefs , who were swayed by the example , and weakened by the departure , of their foremost companions . 
Anna Comnena was born the st of December , A. D. , indiction vii . 
Some moderns have imagined , that her enmity to Bohemond was the fruit of disappointed love . 
may be opposed to the partiality of the Latins , but in their subsequent exploits she is brief and ignorant . 
In their views of the character and conduct of Alexius , Maimbourg has favored the Catholic Franks , and Voltaire has been partial to the schismatic Greeks . 
The prejudice of a philosopher is less excusable than that of a Jesuit . 
Wilken quotes a remarkable passage of William of Malmsbury as to the secret motives of Urban and of Bohemond in urging the crusade . 
M Between the Black Sea , the Bosphorus , and the River Barbyses , which is deep in summer , and runs fifteen miles through a flat meadow . 
The same arms which threatened Europe might deliver Asia , and repel the Turks from the neighboring shores of the Bosphorus and Hellespont . 
The fair provinces from Nice to Antioch were the recent patrimony of the Roman emperor and his ancient and perpetual claim still embraced the kingdoms of Syria and Egypt . 
The pride of Hugh of Vermandois was soothed by the honors of his captivity and in the brother of the French king , the example of submission was prevalent and weighty . 
In the mind of Godfrey of Bouillon every human consideration was subordinate to the glory of God and the success of the crusade . 
He had firmly resisted the temptations of Bohemond and Raymond , who urged the attack and conquest of Constantinople . 
Alexius esteemed his virtues , deservedly named him the champion of the empire , and dignified his homage with the filial name and the rights of adoption . 
The two Roberts , the son of the conqueror of England , and the kinsmen of three queens , bowed in their turn before the Byzantine throne . 
In his southern province , the count of St . 
Giles and Thoulouse faintly recognized the supremacy of the king of France , a prince of a foreign nation and language . 
His obstinate resistance enhanced the value and the price of his submission and he shone , says the princess Anne , among the Barbarians , as the sun amidst the stars of heaven . 
The spirit of chivalry was last subdued in the person of Tancred and none could deem themselves dishonored by the imitation of that gallant knight . 
The ceremony of their homage was grateful to a people who had long since considered pride as the substitute of power . 
There are two sorts of adoption , the one by arms , the other by introducing the son between the shirt and skin of his father . 
Ducange isur Joinville , Diss . 
) supposes Godfrey's adoption to have been of the latter sort . 
After his return , Robert of Flanders became the man of the king of England , for a pension of four hundred marks . 
See the first act in Rymer's Foedera . 
Sensit vetus regnandi , falsos in amore , odia non fingere . 
The proud historians of the crusades slide and stumble over this humiliating step . 
Yet , since the heroes knelt to salute the emperor , as he sat motionless on his throne , it is clear that they must have kissed either his feet or knees . 
It is only singular , that Anna should not have amply supplied the silence or ambiguity of the Latins . 
The abasement of their princes would have added a fine chapter to the Ceremoniale Aulae Byzantinae . 
presumed to ascend the throne , and to place himself by the side of Alexius . 
Before the departure of the pilgrims , he endeavored to learn the name and condition of the audacious baron . 
I am a Frenchman , replied Robert , of the purest and most ancient nobility of my country . 
All that I know is , that there is a church in my neighborhood , the resort of those who are desirous of approving their valor in single combat . 
Till an enemy appears , they address their prayers to God and his saints . 
That church I have frequently visited . 
But never have I found an antagonist who dared to accept my defiance . 
Alexius dismissed the challenger with some prudent advice for his conduct in the Turkish warfare and history repeats with pleasure this lively example of the manners of his age and country . 
With the same penetration , Ducange discovers his church to be that of St . 
pernoctant invictos reddit , ut et de Burgundia et Italia tali necessitate confugiatur ad eum . 
The conquest of Asia was undertaken and achieved by Alexander , with thirty five thousand Macedonians and Greeks and his best hope was in the strength and discipline of his phalanx of infantry . 
The value of these soldiers deserved a strict and authentic account and the flower of European chivalry might furnish , in a first effort , this formidable body of heavy horse . 
were sufficient to produce and pour forth such incredible multitudes . 
The coolest scepticism will remember , that of these religious volunteers great numbers never beheld Constantinople and Nice . 
Yet the myriads that survived , that marched , that pressed forwards on the holy pilgrimage , were a subject of astonishment to themselves and to the Greeks . 
Their motives , their characters , and their arms , have been already displayed . 
A small remnant of the pilgrims , who passed the Bosphorus , was permitted to visit the holy sepulchre . 
Their northern constitution was scorched by the rays , and infected by the vapors , of a Syrian sun . 
In the dire necessity of famine , they sometimes roasted and devoured the flesh of their infant or adult captives . 
but I do not clearly apprehend his difference between the Franci and Galli , Itali and Apuli . 
he contemptuously brands the deserters . 
Yet even his gentle opposition implies an immense multitude . 
I shall select only one example , Sangeles , for the count of St . 
he had confined himself to the numbers , families , and adventures of his countrymen . 
the crus intectum and hispida chlamys , may suit the Highlanders but the finibus uliginosis may rather apply to the Irish bogs . 
William of Malmsbury expressly mentions the Welsh and Scots , c . 
who quitted , the former venatiorem , the latter familiaritatem pulicum . 
This cannibal hunger , sometimes real , more frequently an artifice or a lie , may be found in Anna Comnena , Guibert , Radulph . 
The stratagem is related by the author of the Gesta Francorum , the monk Robert Baldric , and Raymond des Agiles , in the siege and famine of Antioch . 
Chapter LVIII The First Crusade . 
In the space of seven weeks much labor and blood were expended , and some progress , especially by Count Raymond , was made on the side of the besiegers . 
But the Turks could protract their resistance and secure their escape , as long as they were masters of the Lake Ascanius , which stretches several miles to the westward of the city . 
The consort and the principal servants of Soliman had been honorably restored without ransom and the emperor's generosity to the miscreants was interpreted as treason to the Christian cause . 
His Mussulman appellation of Soliman is used by the Latins , and his character is highly embellished by Tasso . 
Note See note , page . 
I cannot forbear remarking the resemblance between the siege and lake of Nice , with the operations of Hernan Cortez before Mexico . 
Robertson , History of America , l . 
M. Mecreant , a word invented by the French crusaders , and confined in that language to its primitive sense . 
It should seem , that the zeal of our ancestors boiled higher , and that they branded every unbeliever as a rascal . 
A similar prejudice still lurks in the minds of many who think themselves Christians . 
Some miles before they could reach Dorylaeum in Phrygia , the left , and least numerous , division was surprised , and attacked , and almost oppressed , by the Turkish cavalry . 
Without a moment's pause , they formed in new order , and advanced to a second battle . 
As long as the horses were fresh , and the quivers full , Soliman maintained the advantage of the day and four thousand Christians were pierced by the Turkish arrows . 
In a march of five hundred miles , the crusaders traversed the Lesser Asia , through a wasted land and deserted towns , without finding either a friend or an enemy . 
The enemies consisted of Medes , Persians , Chaldeans be it so . 
The first attack was cum nostro incommodo true and tender . 
But why Godfrey of Bouillon and Hugh brothers ! Tancred is styled filius of whom ? Certainly not of Roger , nor of Bohemond . 
Balista , Balestra , Arbalestre . 
By a humane inconsistency , the pope strove to prohibit it in Christian wars . 
The curious reader may compare the classic learning of Cellarius and the geographical science of D'Anville . 
Note The journey of Col . 
Macdonald Kinneir in Asia Minor throws considerable light on the geography of this march of the crusaders . 
Honor was the motive , and fame the reward , of Tancred but fortune smiled on the more selfish enterprise of his rival . 
He was called to the assistance of a Greek or Armenian tyrant , who had been suffered under the Turkish yoke to reign over the Christians of Edessa . 
In the disputes of that prince with Tancred , his partiality is encountered by the partiality of Radulphus Cadomensis , the soldier and historian of the gallant marquis . 
See de Guignes , Hist . 
Yet Antioch must have still flourished as a great and populous capital . 
Indolence or weakness had prevented the Franks from investing the entire circuit and the perpetual freedom of two gates relieved the wants and recruited the garrison of the city . 
Five and twenty days the Christians spent on the verge of destruction and the proud lieutenant of the caliph and the sultan left them only the choice of servitude or death . 
This bridge was over the Ifrin , not the Orontes , at a distance of three leagues from Antioch . 
Yet he justifies the deed by the stupendis viribus of Godfrey and William of Tyre covers it by obstupuit populus facti novitate . 
Yet it must not have appeared incredible to the knights of that age . 
See the interesting extract from Kemaleddin's History of Aleppo in Wilken , preface to vol . 
Phirouz , or Azzerrad , the breastplate maker , had been pillaged and put to the torture by Bagi Sejan , the prince of Antioch . 
In the eventful period of the siege and defence of Antioch , the crusaders were alternately exalted by victory or sunk in despair either swelled with plenty or emaciated with hunger . 
Experience blows away this charitable illusion and seldom does the history of profane war display such scenes of intemperance and prostitution as were exhibited under the walls of Antioch . 
Disease , the faithful companion of want , was envenomed by the rains of the winter , the summer heats , unwholesome food , and the close imprisonment of multitudes . 
The pictures of famine and pestilence are always the same , and always disgustful and our imagination may suggest the nature of their sufferings and their resources . 
Weakness of body and terror of mind extinguished the ardent enthusiasm of the pilgrims and every motive of honor and religion was subdued by the desire of life . 
are blotted from the book of life and the opprobrious epithet of the rope dancers was applied to the deserters who dropped in the night from the walls of Antioch . 
The emperor Alexius , who seemed to advance to the succor of the Latins , was dismayed by the assurance of their hopeless condition . 
See the tragic and scandalous fate of an archdeacon of royal birth , who was slain by the Turks as he reposed in an orchard , playing at dice with a Syrian concubine . 
More examples might be produced but it is the ordinary , not the extraordinary , prices , that deserve the notice of the philosopher . 
attempts to excuse Hugh the Great , and even Stephen of Chartres . 
Peter fell during the siege he went afterwards on an embassy to Kerboga Wilken . 
M. See the progress of the crusade , the retreat of Alexius , the victory of Antioch , and the conquest of Jerusalem , in the Alexiad , l . 
Anna was so prone to exaggeration , that she magnifies the exploits of the Latins . 
For their salvation and victory , they were indebted to the same fanaticism which had led them to the brink of ruin . 
In such a cause , and in such an army , visions , prophecies , and miracles , were frequent and familiar . 
In the distress of Antioch , they were repeated with unusual energy and success St . 
Of the diocese of Marseilles , there was a priest of low cunning and loose manners , and his name was Peter Bartholemy . 
He presented himself at the door of the council chamber , to disclose an apparition of St . 
Andrew , which had been thrice reiterated in his sleep with a dreadful menace , if he presumed to suppress the commands of Heaven . 
At Antioch , said the apostle , in the church of my brother St . 
Peter , near the high altar , is concealed the steel head of the lance that pierced the side of our Redeemer . 
In three days that instrument of eternal , and now of temporal , salvation , will be manifested to his disciples . 
Search , and ye shall find bear it aloft in battle and that mystic weapon shall penetrate the souls of the miscreants . 
The ground was opened in the appointed place but the workmen , who relieved each other , dug to the depth of twelve feet without discovering the object of their search . 
Whatever had been the arts , and whatever might be the sentiments of the chiefs , they skilfully improved this fortunate revolution by every aid that discipline and devotion could afford . 
On the festival of St . 
Maurice the tumult of battle allowed no time for doubt or scrutiny and the welcome apparition dazzled the eyes or the imagination of a fanatic army . 
The prevalence of incredulity compelled the author to submit his life and veracity to the judgment of God . 
the Jacobite primate , with St . 
) The real cause of this victory appears to have been the feud in Kerboga's army Wilken , vol . 
M. The twelfth day after . 
Fulcherius Carnotensis presumes to say , Audite fraudem et non fraudem ! and afterwards , Invenit lanceam , fallaciter occultatam forsitan . 
The rest of the herd are loud and strenuous . 
The prudence or fortune of the Franks had delayed their invasion till the decline of the Turkish empire . 
See M. De Guignes , tom . 
and the articles of Barkidrok , Mohammed , Sangiar , in D'Herbelot . 
who are more sensible of their importance than the contemporary writers . 
Yet this attack , when they were within the view and reach of their glorious prize , was suspended above ten months after the defeat of Kerboga . 
The zeal and courage of the crusaders were chilled in the moment of victory and instead of marching to improve the consternation , they hastily dispersed to enjoy the luxury , of Syria . 
The causes of this strange delay may be found in the want of strength and subordination . 
This is not quite correct he took Marra on his road . 
His excursions were partly to obtain provisions for the army and fodder for the horses Wilken , vol . 
M. Scarcely of Bethlehem , to the south of Jerusalem . 
Chapter LVIII The First Crusade . 
Part V. Jerusalem has derived some reputation from the number and importance of her memorable sieges . 
These obstacles were diminished in the age of the crusades . 
Godfrey of Bouillon erected his standard on the first swell of Mount Calvary to the left , as far as St . 
On the fifth day , the crusaders made a general assault , in the fanatic hope of battering down the walls without engines , and of scaling them without ladders . 
The time of the siege was indeed fulfilled in forty days , but they were forty days of calamity and anguish . 
The holy sepulchre was now free and the bloody victors prepared to accomplish their vow . 
This union of the fiercest and most tender passions has been variously considered by two philosophers by the one , as easy and natural by the other , as absurd and incredible . 
who supposes that the Jewish lawgivers had provided for a perpetual state of hostility against the rest of mankind . 
Note This is an exaggerated inference from the words of Tacitus , who speaks of the founders of the city , not the lawgivers . 
Praeviderant conditores , ex diversitate morum , crebra bella inde cuncta quamvis adversus loagum obsidium . 
in his scarce and valuable tract . 
Both strangers and natives complain of the want of water , which , in time of war , was studiously aggravated . 
Within the city , Tacitus mentions a perennial fountain , an aqueduct and cisterns for rain water . 
Gierusalomme Liberata , canto xiii . 
It is pleasant enough to observe how Tasso has copied and embellished the minutest details of the siege . 
They fought in vair the whole of the Thursday . 
Abulpharagius , and M. De Guignes , tom . 
The old tower Psephina , in the middle ages Neblosa , was named Castellum Pisanum , from the patriarch Daimbert . 
It was likewise called the Tower of David . 
Hume , in his History of England , vol . 
Voltaire , in his Essai sur l'Histoire Generale , tom ii . 
Hugh the Great , and Stephen of Chartres , had retired with some loss of reputation , which they strove to regain by a second crusade and an honorable death . 
embraced his departing companions , and could retain only with the gallant Tancred three hundred knights , and two thousand foot soldiers for the defence of Palestine . 
His sovereignty was soon attacked by a new enemy , the only one against whom Godfrey was a coward . 
of the count of St . 
He died at the siege of Tripoli , which was possessed by his descendants . 
See the election , the battle of Ascalon , c . 
, in William of Tyre l . 
, and in the conclusion of the Latin historians of the first crusade . 
Arnulf was first chosen , but illegitimately , and degraded . 
He was ever after the secret enemy of Daimbert or Dagobert . 
who asserts with marvellous candor the independence of the conquerors and kings of Jerusalem . 
Within this narrow verge , the Mahometans were still lodged in some impregnable castles and the husbandman , the trader , and the pilgrim , were exposed to daily and domestic hostility . 
The laws and language , the manners and titles , of the French nation and Latin church , were introduced into these transmarine colonies . 
But the firmest bulwark of Jerusalem was founded on the knights of the Hospital of St . 
John , and of the temple of Solomon on the strange association of a monastic and military life , which fanaticism might suggest , but which policy must approve . 
describe the state and conquests of the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem . 
differ but the lowest gives , men fit to bear arms in Israel , , in Judah . 
Gibbon has taken the highest census in his estimate of the population , and confined the dominions of David to Jordandic Palestine . 
Some domestic facts are celebrated in the Chronicles of Pisa , Genoa , and Venice , in the vith , ixth , and xiith tomes of Muratori . 
Quidam populus de insulis occidentis egressus , et maxime de ea parte quae Norvegia dicitur . 
marks their course per Britannicum Mare et Calpen to the siege of Sidon . 
Benelathir , apud De Guignes , Hist . 
He must speak of the inland country . 
Sanut very sensibly descants on the mischiefs of female succession , in a land hostibus circumdata , ubi cuncta virilia et virtuosa esse deberent . 
the accurate and useful tables of these dynasties , which are chiefly drawn from the Lignages d'Outremer . 
Illustrium virorum , qui ad Terrae Sanctae . 
liberationem in ipsa manserunt , degeneres filii . 
in deliciis enutriti , molles et effoe minati , c . 
reckons only knights , and followers . 
the barons brought a voluntary aid decentem comitivam militum juxta statum suum . 
relates the ignoble origin and early insolence of the Hospitallers , who soon deserted their humble patron , St . 
John the Eleemosynary , for the more august character of St . 
Bernard de Laude Novae Militiae Templi , composed A. D. , in Opp . 
Such an encomium , which is thrown away on the dead Templars , would be highly valued by the historians of Malta . 
in the English than in the French idiom . 
Manor is a lordship , manoir a dwelling . 
The subsequent books pursue their emigration to Rhodes and Malta . 
Of such laws , the first and indispensable condition is the assent of those whose obedience they require , and for whose benefit they are designed . 
and illustrated by Gaspard Thaumas de la Thaumassiere , with a comment and glossary . 
An Italian version had been published in , at Venice , for the use of the kingdom of Cyprus . 
Note See Wilken , vol . 
Yet Jerusalem capitulated with Saladin the queen and the principal Christians departed in peace and a code so precious and so portable could not provoke the avarice of the conquerors . 
I have sometimes suspected the existence of this original copy of the Holy Sepulchre , which might be invented to sanctify and authenticate the traditionary customs of the French in Palestine . 
The justice and freedom of the constitution were maintained by two tribunals of unequal dignity , which were instituted by Godfrey of Bouillon after the conquest of Jerusalem . 
The king , in person , presided in the upper court , the court of the barons . 
Each member was the judge and guardian both of public and private rights . 
Entre seignor et homme ne n'a que la foi . 
Tous les hommes dudit royaume sont par ladite Assise tenus les uns as autres . 
The form of their remonstrances is conceived with the noble simplicity of freedom . 
The combat was then the privilege of the defendant because he charged the witness with an attempt by perjury to take away his right . 
He came therefore to be in the same situation as the appellant in criminal cases . 
Champions were only allowed to women , and to men maimed or past the age of sixty . 
See l'Esprit des Loix , l . 
I am deeply indebted to the friendship of a learned lord , who , with an accurate and discerning eye , has surveyed the philosophic history of law . 
By his studies , posterity might be enriched the merit of the orator and the judge can be felt only by his contemporaries . 
Another class of subjects , the Syrians , or Oriental Christians , were oppressed by the zeal of the clergy , and protected by the toleration of the state . 
Godfrey listened to their reasonable prayer , that they might be judged by their own national laws . 
was sometimes exercised by the viscount of the city . 
For its origin and effects , see the judicious remarks of Dr . 
These laws were enacted as late as the year , in the kingdom of Cyprus . 
that the price of a war horse was not less exorbitant in England . 
