THE POISON BELT BY ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE Being an account of another adventure of Prof . 
George E. Challenger , Lord John Roxton , Prof . 
The good old Scotchman shook his head , scratched his dwindling fringe of ruddy fluff , and finally put his reluctance into words . 
I was thinking , Mr. Malone , that we could employ you to advantage these days . 
I was thinking there was a story that you are the only man that could handle as it should be handled . 
I am sorry for that , said I , trying to hide my disappointment . 
Of course if I am needed , there is an end of the matter . 
But the engagement was important and intimate . 
If I could be spared Well , I don't see that you can . 
It was bitter , but I had to put the best face I could upon it . 
After all , it was my own fault , for I should have known by this time that a journalist has no right to make plans of his own . 
Then I'll think no more of it , said I with as much cheerfulness as I could assume at so short a notice . 
What was it that you wanted me to do ? Well , it was just to interview that deevil of a man down at Rotherfield . 
You don't mean Professor Challenger ? I cried . 
Aye , it's just him that I do mean . 
He ran young Alec Simpson of the Courier a mile down the high road last week by the collar of his coat and the slack of his breeches . 
You'll have read of it , likely , in the police report . 
Our boys would as soon interview a loose alligator in the zoo . 
But you could do it , I'm thinking an old friend like you . 
Why , said I , greatly relieved , this makes it all easy . 
It so happens that it was to visit Professor Challenger at Rotherfield that I was asking for leave of absence . 
Capital ! cried McArdle , rubbing his hands and beaming through his glasses . 
Then you will be able to get his opeenions out of him . 
What has he been doing ? Haven't you seen his letter on Scientific Possibeelities' in to day's Times ? No. McArdle dived down and picked a copy from the floor . 
Read it aloud , said he , indicating a column with his finger . 
I'd be glad to hear it again , for I am not sure now that I have the man's meaning clear in my head . 
He dismisses the matter as of no significance . 
To a wider intelligence it may well seem of very great possible importance so great as to involve the ultimate welfare of every man , woman , and child upon this planet . 
Man , he's a wonder a living wonder ! said McArdle , shaking his head reflectively . 
He'd put up the feathers of a sucking dove and set up a riot in a Quakers' meeting . 
No wonder he has made London too hot for him . 
It's a peety , Mr. Malone , for it's a grand brain ! We'll let's have the analogy . 
We will suppose , I read , that a small bundle of connected corks was launched in a sluggish current upon a voyage across the Atlantic . 
The corks drift slowly on from day to day with the same conditions all round them . 
If the corks were sentient we could imagine that they would consider these conditions to be permanent and assured . 
But we , with our superior knowledge , know that many things might happen to surprise the corks . 
They might possibly float up against a ship , or a sleeping whale , or become entangled in seaweed . 
In any case , their voyage would probably end by their being thrown up on the rocky coast of Labrador . 
Man , he'd have made a grand meenister , said McArdle . 
It just booms like an organ . 
Let's get doun to what it is that's troubling him . 
The general blurring and shifting of Fraunhofer's lines of the spectrum point , in my opinion , to a widespread cosmic change of a subtle and singular character . 
Light from a planet is the reflected light of the sun . 
Light from a star is a self produced light . 
But the spectra both from planets and stars have , in this instance , all undergone the same change . 
Is it , then , a change in those planets and stars ? To me such an idea is inconceivable . 
Deep in that ocean we are floating upon a slow current . 
Might that current not drift us into belts of ether which are novel and have properties of which we have never conceived ? There is a change somewhere . 
This cosmic disturbance of the spectrum proves it . 
It may be a good change . 
It may be an evil one . 
It may be a neutral one . 
Yours faithfully , GEORGE EDWARD CHALLENGER . 
It's a fine , steemulating letter , said McArdle thoughtfully , fitting a cigarette into the long glass tube which he used as a holder . 
What's your opeenion of it , Mr. Malone ? I had to confess my total and humiliating ignorance of the subject at issue . 
Those dark bands are Fraunhofer's lines , said he . 
The colours are just light itself . 
Every light , if you can split it up with a prism , gives the same colours . 
It is the lines that count , because they vary according to what it may be that produces the light . 
It is these lines that have been blurred instead of clear this last week , and all the astronomers have been quarreling over the reason . 
Here's a photograph of the blurred lines for our issue to morrow . 
The public have taken no interest in the matter up to now , but this letter of Challenger's in the Times will make them wake up , I'm thinking . 
And this about Sumatra ? Well , it's a long cry from a blurred line in a spectrum to a sick nigger in Sumatra . 
And yet the chiel has shown us once before that he knows what he's talking about . 
Anyhow , it's good enough for you to interview Challenger upon . 
If you get anything definite , let us have a column by Monday . 
I was coming out from the news editor's room , turning over my new mission in my mind , when I heard my name called from the waiting room below . 
It was a telegraph boy with a wire which had been forwarded from my lodgings at Streatham . 
The message was from the very man we had been discussing , and ran thus Malone , , Hill Street , Streatham . 
Bring oxygen ! The Professor , as I remembered him , had an elephantine sense of humour capable of the most clumsy and unwieldly gambollings . 
Then surely it was a concise order though a very strange one . 
He was the last man in the world whose deliberate command I should care to disobey . 
Possibly some chemical experiment was afoot possibly Well , it was no business of mine to speculate upon why he wanted it . 
There was nearly an hour before I should catch the train at Victoria . 
I took a taxi , and having ascertained the address from the telephone book , I made for the Oxygen Tube Supply Company in Oxford Street . 
An elderly man was at their heels scolding and directing in a creaky , sardonic voice . 
There was no mistaking those austere features and that goatee beard . 
It was my old cross grained companion , Professor Summerlee . 
Don't tell me that YOU have had one of these preposterous telegrams for oxygen ? I exhibited it . 
Well , well ! I have had one too , and , as you see , very much against the grain , I have acted upon it . 
Our good friend is as impossible as ever . 
The need for oxygen could not have been so urgent that he must desert the usual means of supply and encroach upon the time of those who are really busier than himself . 
Why could he not order it direct ? I could only suggest that he probably wanted it at once . 
Or thought he did , which is quite another matter . 
But it is superfluous now for you to purchase any , since I have this considerable supply . 
Still , for some reason he seems to wish that I should bring oxygen too . 
It will be safer to do exactly what he tells me . 
I turned away to pay off my taxi , the driver of which was very cantankerous and abusive over his fare . 
As I came back to Professor Summerlee , he was having a furious altercation with the men who had carried down the oxygen , his little white goat's beard jerking with indignation . 
These little things may seem trivial to relate , and passed as mere incidents at the time . 
It is only now , as I look back , that I see their relation to the whole story which I have to unfold . 
Twice we nearly had collisions with other equally erratic vehicles , and I remember remarking to Summerlee that the standard of driving in London had very much declined . 
Once we brushed the very edge of a great crowd which was watching a fight at the corner of the Mall . 
The people , who were much excited , raised cries of anger at the clumsy driving , and one fellow sprang upon the step and waved a stick above our heads . 
I pushed him off , but we were glad when we had got clear of them and safe out of the park . 
But our good humour was restored when we saw Lord John Roxton waiting for us upon the platform , his tall , thin figure clad in a yellow tweed shooting suit . 
His keen face , with those unforgettable eyes , so fierce and yet so humorous , flushed with pleasure at the sight of us . 
Hullo , Herr Professor ! Hullo , young fella ! he shouted as he came toward us . 
He roared with amusement when he saw the oxygen cylinders upon the porter's trolly behind us . 
So you've got them too ! he cried . 
Mine is in the van . 
Whatever can the old dear be after ? Have you seen his letter in the Times ? I asked . 
What was it ? Stuff and nonsense ! said Summerlee Harshly . 
Well , it's at the bottom of this oxygen business , or I am mistaken , said I. Stuff and nonsense ! cried Summerlee again with quite unnecessary violence . 
Friend Challenger is a clever man , said he with great vehemence . 
No one can deny it . 
It's a fool that denies it . 
There's a sixty ounce brain inside it a big engine , running smooth , and turning out clean work . 
Show me the engine house and I'll tell you the size of the engine . 
But he is a born charlatan you've heard me tell him so to his face a born charlatan , with a kind of dramatic trick of jumping into the limelight . 
Things are quiet , so friend Challenger sees a chance to set the public talking about him . 
A wave of anger passed through me as I listened to Summerlee . 
It was disgraceful that he should speak thus of the leader who had been the source of all our fame and given us such an experience as no men have ever enjoyed . 
I had opened my mouth to utter some hot retort , when Lord John got before me . 
You had a scrap once before with old man Challenger , said he sternly , and you were down and out inside ten seconds . 
It seems to me , Professor Summerlee , he's beyond your class , and the best you can do with him is to walk wide and leave him alone . 
Besides , said I , he has been a good friend to every one of us . 
Whatever his faults may be , he is as straight as a line , and I don't believe he ever speaks evil of his comrades behind their backs . 
Well said , young fellah my lad , said Lord John Roxton . 
Then , with a kindly smile , he slapped Professor Summerlee upon his shoulder . 
Come , Herr Professor , we're not going to quarrel at this time of day . 
We've seen too much together . 
But keep off the grass when you get near Challenger , for this young fellah and I have a bit of a weakness for the old dear . 
But Summerlee was in no humour for compromise . 
His face was screwed up in rigid disapproval , and thick curls of angry smoke rolled up from his pipe . 
I have my own judgment , sir , and I use it in my own way . 
There was something very irritating and aggressive in Summerlee's demeanour . 
Really , there should be some limits to human folly ! cried Summerlee in a positive fury . 
There really are no bounds to the credulity and ignorance of the average layman . 
I don't profess to be a scientific man , said I , though I have heard somewhere that the science of one generation is usually the fallacy of the next . 
With might' and may' you can prove anything , cried Summerlee furiously . 
Yes , sir , pigs MAY fly but they don't . 
It is not worth arguing with you . 
Challenger has filled you with his nonsense and you are both incapable of reason . 
I had as soon lay arguments before those railway cushions . 
I must say , Professor Summerlee , that your manners do not seem to have improved since I last had the pleasure of meeting you , said Lord John severely . 
You lordlings are not accustomed to hear the truth , Summerlee answered with a bitter smile . 
Summerlee thrust out his chin , with its little wagging tuft of goatee beard . 
To me all this was dreadful and deplorable . 
Like a wave , the memory of the past swept over me , the good comradeship , the happy , adventurous days all that we had suffered and worked for and won . 
That it should have come to this to insults and abuse ! Suddenly I was sobbing sobbing in loud , gulping , uncontrollable sobs which refused to be concealed . 
My companions looked at me in surprise . 
I covered my face with my hands . 
It's all right , said I. Only only it IS such a pity ! You're ill , young fellah , that's what's amiss with you , said Lord John . 
I thought you were queer from the first . 
Your habits , sir , have not mended in these three years , said Summerlee , shaking his head . 
I also did not fail to observe your strange manner the moment we met . 
You need not waste your sympathy , Lord John . 
These tears are purely alcoholic . 
The man has been drinking . 
By the way , Lord John , I called you a coxcomb just now , which was perhaps unduly severe . 
But the word reminds me of a small accomplishment , trivial but amusing , which I used to possess . 
You know me as the austere man of science . 
Can you believe that I once had a well deserved reputation in several nurseries as a farmyard imitator ? Perhaps I can help you to pass the time in a pleasant way . 
Would it amuse you to hear me crow like a cock ? No , sir , said Lord John , who was still greatly offended , it would NOT amuse me . 
My imitation of the clucking hen who had just laid an egg was also considered rather above the average . 
Might I venture ? No , sir , no certainly not . 
Once Lord John passed across his newspaper , upon the margin of which he had written in pencil , Poor devil ! Mad as a hatter . 
No doubt it was very eccentric , and yet the performance struck me as extraordinarily clever and amusing . 
Whilst this was going on , Lord John leaned forward and told me some interminable story about a buffalo and an Indian rajah which seemed to me to have neither beginning nor end . 
And there was Challenger to meet us . 
If he had changed in anything since the days of old , it was that his points had become accentuated . 
The huge head and broad sweep of forehead , with its plastered lock of black hair , seemed even greater than before . 
His black beard poured forward in a more impressive cascade , and his clear grey eyes , with their insolent and sardonic eyelids , were even more masterful than of yore . 
Our journey led us up a winding hill through beautiful country . 
I sat in front with the chauffeur , but behind me my three comrades seemed to me to be all talking together . 
Suddenly Austin slanted his mahogany face toward me without taking his eyes from his steering wheel . 
I'm under notice , said he . 
Dear me ! said I. Everything seemed strange to day . 
Everyone said queer , unexpected things . 
It was like a dream . 
It's forty seven times , said Austin reflectively . 
When do you go ? I asked , for want of some better observation . 
I don't go , said Austin . 
The conversation seemed to have ended there , but presently he came back to it . 
If I was to go , who would look after 'im ? He jerked his head toward his master . 
Who would 'e get to serve 'im ? Someone else , I suggested lamely . 
No one would stay a week . 
If I was to go , that 'ouse would run down like a watch with the mainspring out . 
I'm telling you because you're 'is friend , and you ought to know . 
If I was to take 'im at 'is word but there , I wouldn't have the 'eart . 
'E and the missus would be like two babes left out in a bundle . 
And then 'e goes and gives me notice . 
Why would no one stay ? I asked . 
Well , they wouldn't make allowances , same as I do . 
'E's a very clever man , the master so clever that 'e's clean balmy sometimes . 
I've seen 'im right off 'is onion , and no error . 
Well , look what 'e did this morning . 
What did he do ? Austin bent over to me . 
'E bit the 'ousekeeper , said he in a hoarse whisper . 
Bit her ? Yes , sir . 
Bit 'er on the leg . 
I saw 'er with my own eyes startin' a marathon from the 'all door . 
Good gracious ! So you'd say , sir , if you could see some of the goings on . 
'E don't make friends with the neighbors . 
But 'e does try one cruel at times . 
Now look at that , sir . 
That ain't what you might call old fashioned 'ospitality , is it now ? Just you read it for yourself . 
The car on its lowest speed had ground its way up a steep , curving ascent . 
At the corner a notice board peered over a well clipped hedge . 
As Austin said , it was not difficult to read , for the words were few and arresting WARNING . 
Visitors , Pressmen , and Mendicants are not encouraged . 
No , it's not what you might call 'earty , said Austin , shaking his head and glancing up at the deplorable placard . 
It wouldn't look well in a Christmas card . 
'E can sack me till 'e's blue in the face , but I ain't going , and that's flat . 
I'm 'is man and 'e's my master , and so it will be , I expect , to the end of the chapter . 
We had passed between the white posts of a gate and up a curving drive , lined with rhododendron bushes . 
Beyond stood a low brick house , picked out with white woodwork , very comfortable and pretty . 
Mrs. Challenger , a small , dainty , smiling figure , stood in the open doorway to welcome us . 
Well , my dear , said Challenger , bustling out of the car , here are our visitors . 
It's dreadful dreadful ! cried the lady , between laughter and tears . 
George is always quarreling with everyone . 
We haven't a friend on the countryside . 
It enables me to concentrate my attention upon my incomparable wife , said Challenger , passing his short , thick arm round her waist . 
Picture a gorilla and a gazelle , and you have the pair of them . 
Come , come , these gentlemen are tired from the journey , and luncheon should be ready . 
Has Sarah returned ? The lady shook her head ruefully , and the Professor laughed loudly and stroked his beard in his masterful fashion . 
Austin , he cried , when you have put up the car you will kindly help your mistress to lay the lunch . 
Now , gentlemen , will you please step into my study , for there are one or two very urgent things which I am anxious to say to you . 
Chapter II THE TIDE OF DEATH As we crossed the hall the telephone bell rang , and we were the involuntary auditors of Professor Challenger's end of the ensuing dialogue . 
I say we , but no one within a hundred yards could have failed to hear the booming of that monstrous voice , which reverberated through the house . 
His answers lingered in my mind . 
Yes , yes , of course , it is I. . 
Yes , certainly , THE Professor Challenger , the famous Professor , who else ? . 
Of course , every word of it , otherwise I should not have written it . 
There is every indication of it . 
Within a day or so at the furthest . 
Well , I can't help that , can I ? . 
Very unpleasant , no doubt , but I rather fancy it will affect more important people than you . 
There is no use whining about it . 
No , I couldn't possibly . 
You must take your chance . 
Nonsense ! I have something more important to do than to listen to such twaddle . 
He shut off with a crash and led us upstairs into a large airy apartment which formed his study . 
On the great mahogany desk seven or eight unopened telegrams were lying . 
Really , he said as he gathered them up , I begin to think that it would save my correspondents' money if I were to adopt a telegraphic address . 
Possibly Noah , Rotherfield , would be the most appropriate . 
As usual when he made an obscure joke , he leaned against the desk and bellowed in a paroxysm of laughter , his hands shaking so that he could hardly open the envelopes . 
Finally Challenger , still rumbling and exploding , began to open his telegrams . 
The three of us stood in the bow window and occupied ourselves in admiring the magnificent view . 
It was certainly worth looking at . 
The road in its gentle curves had really brought us to a considerable elevation seven hundred feet , as we afterwards discovered . 
In a cleft of the hills a haze of smoke marked the position of Lewes . 
Immediately at our feet there lay a rolling plain of heather , with the long , vivid green stretches of the Crowborough golf course , all dotted with the players . 
A little to the south , through an opening in the woods , we could see a section of the main line from London to Brighton . 
In the immediate foreground , under our very noses , was a small enclosed yard , in which stood the car which had brought us from the station . 
An ejaculation from Challenger caused us to turn . 
He had read his telegrams and had arranged them in a little methodical pile upon his desk . 
Well , well , we all get a bit prosy sometimes , said Lord John . 
The young fellah meant no real harm . 
After all , he's an International , so if he takes half an hour to describe a game of football he has more right to do it than most folk . 
Half an hour to describe a game ! I cried indignantly . 
Why , it was you that took half an hour with some long winded story about a buffalo . 
Professor Summerlee will be my witness . 
I can hardly judge which of you was the most utterly wearisome , said Summerlee . 
I declare to you , Challenger , that I never wish to hear of football or of buffaloes so long as I live . 
I have never said one word to day about football , I protested . 
Lord John gave a shrill whistle , and Summerlee shook his head sadly . 
So early in the day too , said he . 
As I sat there in sad but thoughtful silence In silence ! cried Lord John . 
Why , you were doin' a music hall turn of imitations all the way more like a runaway gramophone than a man . 
Summerlee drew himself up in bitter protest . 
You are pleased to be facetious , Lord John , said he with a face of vinegar . 
Why , dash it all , this is clear madness , cried Lord John . 
Each of us seems to know what the others did and none of us knows what he did himself . 
Let's put it all together from the first . 
We got into a first class smoker , that's clear , ain't it ? Then we began to quarrel over friend Challenger's letter in the Times . 
Oh , you did , did you ? rumbled our host , his eyelids beginning to droop . 
You said , Summerlee , that there was no possible truth in his contention . 
Dear me ! said Challenger , puffing out his chest and stroking his beard . 
No possible truth ! I seem to have heard the words before . 
He bowed and shrugged and spread open his hands as he spoke with his elaborate and elephantine sarcasm . 
The reason was simple enough , said the dogged Summerlee . 
The explanation only brought uproarious merriment from Challenger . 
He laughed until everything in the room seemed to rattle and quiver . 
Our worthy Summerlee is , not for the first time , somewhat out of touch with the facts of the situation , said he at last , mopping his heated brow . 
Now , gentlemen , I cannot make my point better than by detailing to you what I have myself done this morning . 
You will the more easily condone any mental abberation upon your own part when you realize that even I have had moments when my balance has been disturbed . 
We have had for some years in this household a housekeeper one Sarah , with whose second name I have never attempted to burden my memory . 
I devised a simple but effective experiment . 
Having upset a small vase of flowers which stood in the centre of the cloth , I rang the bell and slipped under the table . 
She entered and , seeing the room empty , imagined that I had withdrawn to the study . 
As I had expected , she approached and leaned over the table to replace the vase . 
I had a vision of a cotton stocking and an elastic sided boot . 
Protruding my head , I sank my teeth into the calf of her leg . 
The experiment was successful beyond belief . 
For some moments she stood paralyzed , staring down at my head . 
Then with a shriek she tore herself free and rushed from the room . 
I tell you the anecdote for what it is worth . 
I drop it into your brains and await its germination . 
Is it illuminative ? Has it conveyed anything to your minds ? What do YOU think of it , Lord John ? Lord John shook his head gravely . 
You'll be gettin' into serious trouble some of these days if you don't put a brake on , said he . 
Perhaps you have some observation to make , Summerlee ? You should drop all work instantly , Challenger , and take three months in a German watering place , said he . 
Profound ! Profound ! cried Challenger . 
Now , my young friend , is it possible that wisdom may come from you where your seniors have so signally failed ? And it did . 
I say it with all modesty , but it did . 
Of course , it all seems obvious enough to you who know what occurred , but it was not so very clear when everything was new . 
But it came on me suddenly with the full force of absolute conviction . 
Everything fitted suddenly into its place . 
Of course , I cried again . 
Exactly , said Challenger , rubbing his hands , we are all poisoned . 
Our planet has swum into the poison belt of ether , and is now flying deeper into it at the rate of some millions of miles a minute . 
Our young friend has expressed the cause of all our troubles and perplexities in a single word , poison . 
We looked at each other in amazed silence . 
No comment seemed to meet the situation . 
There is a mental inhibition by which such symptoms can be checked and controlled , said Challenger . 
But no doubt it is appreciable even in our young friend here . 
After the little outburst of high spirits which so alarmed my domestic I sat down and reasoned with myself . 
I put it to myself that I had never before felt impelled to bite any of my household . 
The impulse had then been an abnormal one . 
In an instant I perceived the truth . 
My pulse upon examination was ten beats above the usual , and my reflexes were increased . 
I called upon my higher and saner self , the real G. E. C. , seated serene and impregnable behind all mere molecular disturbance . 
I summoned him , I say , to watch the foolish mental tricks which the poison would play . 
I found that I was indeed the master . 
I could recognize and control a disordered mind . 
It was a remarkable exhibition of the victory of mind over matter , for it was a victory over that particular form of matter which is most intimately connected with mind . 
I might almost say that mind was at fault and that personality controlled it . 
An overpowering desire to quack like a duck was met and mastered in the same fashion . 
On the contrary , I touched him on the shoulder and ordered the car to be at the door in time to meet your train . 
At the present instant I am most forcibly tempted to take Professor Summerlee by that silly old beard of his and to shake his head violently backwards and forwards . 
And yet , as you see , I am perfectly restrained . 
Let me commend my example to you . 
I'll look out for that buffalo , said Lord John . 
And I for the football match . 
It may be that you are right , Challenger , said Summerlee in a chastened voice . 
Challenger slapped his colleague good humouredly upon the shoulder . 
We progress , said he . 
And pray , sir , asked Summerlee humbly , what is your opinion as to the present outlook ? With your permission I will say a few words upon that subject . 
He seated himself upon his desk , his short , stumpy legs swinging in front of him . 
We are assisting at a tremendous and awful function . 
It is , in my opinion , the end of the world . 
We were all struck solemn and waited in silence for Challenger to continue . 
Then to me , at least , there came back the cheering recollection of how twice since we had entered the room he had roared with laughter . 
Surely , I thought , there are limits to mental detachment . 
The crisis cannot be so great or so pressing after all . 
You will conceive a bunch of grapes , said he , which are covered by some infinitesimal but noxious bacillus . 
The gardener passes it through a disinfecting medium . 
It may be that he desires his grapes to be cleaner . 
It may be that he needs space to breed some fresh bacillus less noxious than the last . 
He dips it into the poison and they are gone . 
It was broken by the high trill of the telephone bell . 
There is one of our bacilli squeaking for help , said he with a grim smile . 
They are beginning to realize that their continued existence is not really one of the necessities of the universe . 
He was gone from the room for a minute or two . 
I remember that none of us spoke in his absence . 
The situation seemed beyond all words or comments . 
The medical officer of health for Brighton , said he when he returned . 
The symptoms are for some reason developing more rapidly upon the sea level . 
Our seven hundred feet of elevation give us an advantage . 
Folk seem to have learned that I am the first authority upon the question . 
No doubt it comes from my letter in the Times . 
That was the mayor of a provincial town with whom I talked when we first arrived . 
You may have heard me upon the telephone . 
He seemed to put an entirely inflated value upon his own life . 
I helped him to readjust his ideas . 
Summerlee had risen and was standing by the window . 
His thin , bony hands were trembling with his emotion . 
Challenger , said he earnestly , this thing is too serious for mere futile argument . 
Do not suppose that I desire to irritate you by any question I may ask . 
But I put it to you whether there may not be some fallacy in your information or in your reasoning . 
There is the sun shining as brightly as ever in the blue sky . 
There are the heather and the flowers and the birds . 
There are the folk enjoying themselves upon the golf links and the laborers yonder cutting the corn . 
You tell us that they and we may be upon the very brink of destruction that this sunlit day may be that day of doom which the human race has so long awaited . 
This latter symptom is not so marked but that you and we could , by a deliberate effort , control it . 
You need not stand on ceremony with us , Challenger . 
We have all faced death together before now . 
Speak out , and let us know exactly where we stand , and what , in your opinion , are our prospects for our future . 
It was a brave , good speech , a speech from that stanch and strong spirit which lay behind all the acidities and angularities of the old zoologist . 
Lord John rose and shook him by the hand . 
My sentiment to a tick , said he . 
Now , Challenger , it's up to you to tell us where we are . 
I was lying back in an armchair , an extinguished cigarette between my lips , in that sort of half dazed state in which impressions become exceedingly distinct . 
It did not seem to be any personal concern of mine . 
But here were three strong men at a great crisis , and it was fascinating to observe them . 
Challenger bent his heavy brows and stroked his beard before he answered . 
One could see that he was very carefully weighing his words . 
What was the last news when you left London ? he asked . 
Events have been moving somewhat rapidly since then , said Challenger , picking up his pile of telegrams . 
I am in close touch both with the authorities and with the press , so that news is converging upon me from all parts . 
There is , in fact , a general and very insistent demand that I should come to London but I see no good end to be served . 
I fancy , so far as my toxicology carries me , that there are some vegetable nerve poisons Datura , suggested Summerlee . 
It would make for scientific precision if we named our toxic agent . 
To you , my dear Summerlee , belongs the honour posthumous , alas , but none the less unique of having given a name to the universal destroyer , the Great Gardener's disinfectant . 
The symptoms of daturon , then , may be taken to be such as I indicate . 
That it will involve the whole world and that no life can possibly remain behind seems to me to be certain , since ether is a universal medium . 
There are laws at work in connection with the action and distribution of daturon which would have been of deep interest had the time at our disposal permitted us to study them . 
So far as I can trace them here he glanced over his telegrams the less developed races have been the first to respond to its influence . 
There are deplorable accounts from Africa , and the Australian aborigines appear to have been already exterminated . 
The Northern races have as yet shown greater resisting power than the Southern . 
This , you see , is dated from Marseilles at nine forty five this morning . 
I give it to you verbatim All night delirious excitement throughout Provence . 
Tumult of vine growers at Nimes . 
Sudden illness attended by coma attacked population this morning . 
Great numbers of dead in the streets . 
Paralysis of business and universal chaos . 
An hour later came the following , from the same source We are threatened with utter extermination . 
Cathedrals and churches full to overflowing . 
The dead outnumber the living . 
It is inconceivable and horrible . 
Decease seems to be painless , but swift and inevitable . 
There is a similar telegram from Paris , where the development is not yet as acute . 
India and Persia appear to be utterly wiped out . 
The Slavonic population of Austria is down , while the Teutonic has hardly been affected . 
Even a little elevation makes a considerable difference , and perhaps if there be a survivor of the human race , he will again be found upon the summit of some Ararat . 
Even our own little hill may presently prove to be a temporary island amid a sea of disaster . 
But at the present rate of advance a few short hours will submerge us all . 
Lord John Roxton wiped his brow . 
What beats me , said he , is how you could sit there laughin' with that stack of telegrams under your hand . 
But as to the horror with which universal death appears to inspire you , I would put it to you that it is somewhat exaggerated . 
If you were sent to sea alone in an open boat to some unknown destination , your heart might well sink within you . 
The isolation , the uncertainty , would oppress you . 
A lonely death may be terrible , but a universal one , as painless as this would appear to be , is not , in my judgment , a matter for apprehension . 
What , then , do you propose to do ? asked Summerlee , who had for once nodded his assent to the reasoning of his brother scientist . 
To take our lunch , said Challenger as the boom of a gong sounded through the house . 
We have a cook whose omelettes are only excelled by her cutlets . 
We can but trust that no cosmic disturbance has dulled her excellent abilities . 
My Scharzberger of must also be rescued , so far as our earnest and united efforts can do it , from what would be a deplorable waste of a great vintage . 
He levered his great bulk off the desk , upon which he had sat while he announced the doom of the planet . 
If there is little time left , there is the more need that we should spend it in sober and reasonable enjoyment . 
And , indeed , it proved to be a very merry meal . 
It is true that we could not forget our awful situation . 
The full solemnity of the event loomed ever at the back of our minds and tempered our thoughts . 
But surely it is the soul which has never faced death which shies strongly from it at the end . 
To each of us men it had , for one great epoch in our lives , been a familiar presence . 
As to the lady , she leaned upon the strong guidance of her mighty husband and was well content to go whither his path might lead . 
The future was our fate . 
The present was our own . 
We passed it in goodly comradeship and gentle merriment . 
Our minds were , as I have said , singularly lucid . 
Even I struck sparks at times . 
As to Challenger , he was wonderful ! Never have I so realized the elemental greatness of the man , the sweep and power of his understanding . 
Once I saw Lord John put his hand suddenly to his eyes , and once Summerlee dropped back for an instant in his chair . 
Each breath we breathed was charged with strange forces . 
And yet our minds were happy and at ease . 
Presently Austin laid the cigarettes upon the table and was about to withdraw . 
Austin ! said his master . 
Yes , sir ? I thank you for your faithful service . 
A smile stole over the servant's gnarled face . 
I've done my duty , sir . 
I'm expecting the end of the world to day , Austin . 
What time , sir ? I can't say , Austin . 
The taciturn Austin saluted and withdrew . 
Challenger lit a cigarette , and , drawing his chair closer to his wife's , he took her hand in his . 
You know how matters stand , dear , said he . 
I have explained it also to our friends here . 
You're not afraid are you ? It won't be painful , George ? No more than laughing gas at the dentist's . 
Every time you have had it you have practically died . 
But that is a pleasant sensation . 
The worn out bodily machine can't record its impression , but we know the mental pleasure which lies in a dream or a trance . 
Nature may build a beautiful door and hang it with many a gauzy and shimmering curtain to make an entrance to the new life for our wondering souls . 
Talkin' of death , said Lord John . 
I don't know , he added , looking round the table in a shamefaced way , that I wouldn't feel more homely myself if I was put away with my old . 
Express and the fowlin' piece , the shorter one with the rubbered stock , and a clip or two of cartridges just a fool's fancy , of course , but there it is . 
I'm of the twentieth century myself , and would wish to die like a reasonable civilized man . 
Is it quite certain , Challenger , that there is nothing we can do ? To save us nothing , said Challenger . 
To prolong our lives a few hours and thus to see the evolution of this mighty tragedy before we are actually involved in it that may prove to be within my powers . 
I have taken certain steps The oxygen ? Exactly . 
They are different planes of matter . 
They cannot impinge upon one another . 
Come , Challenger , you could not defend such a proposition . 
My good Summerlee , this etheric poison is most certainly influenced by material agents . 
We see it in the methods and distribution of the outbreak . 
We should not A PRIORI have expected it , but it is undoubtedly a fact . 
It may be that I am mistaken , but I have every confidence in the correctness of my reasoning . 
Well , said Lord John , if we've got to sit suckin' at those tubes like so many babies with their bottles , I'm not takin' any . 
There will be no need for that , Challenger answered . 
We have made arrangements it is to my wife that you chiefly owe it that her boudoir shall be made as airtight as is practicable . 
With matting and varnished paper . 
Good heavens , Challenger , you don't suppose you can keep out ether with varnished paper ? Really , my worthy friend , you are a trifle perverse in missing the point . 
It is not to keep out the ether that we have gone to such trouble . 
It is to keep in the oxygen . 
I trust that if we can ensure an atmosphere hyper oxygenated to a certain point , we may be able to retain our senses . 
I had two tubes of the gas and you have brought me three more . 
It is not much , but it is something . 
How long will they last ? I have not an idea . 
We will not turn them on until our symptoms become unbearable . 
Then we shall dole the gas out as it is urgently needed . 
It may give us some hours , possibly even some days , on which we may look out upon a blasted world . 
Perhaps you will be kind enough now to give me a hand with the cylinders . 
It seems to me that the atmosphere already grows somewhat more oppressive . 
Chapter III SUBMERGED The chamber which was destined to be the scene of our unforgettable experience was a charmingly feminine sitting room , some fourteen or sixteen feet square . 
At the end of it , divided by a curtain of red velvet , was a small apartment which formed the Professor's dressing room . 
This in turn opened into a large bedroom . 
The curtain was still hanging , but the boudoir and dressing room could be taken as one chamber for the purposes of our experiment . 
One door and the window frame had been plastered round with varnished paper so as to be practically sealed . 
Above the other door , which opened on to the landing , there hung a fanlight which could be drawn by a cord when some ventilation became absolutely necessary . 
A large shrub in a tub stood in each corner . 
The shrubs will be of some small service . 
Two of the oxygen tubes are ready to be turned on at an instant's notice , so that we cannot be taken unawares . 
At the same time , it would be well not to go far from the room , as the crisis may be a sudden and urgent one . 
There was a broad , low window opening out upon a balcony . 
The view beyond was the same as that which we had already admired from the study . 
Looking out , I could see no sign of disorder anywhere . 
There was a road curving down the side of the hill , under my very eyes . 
A cab from the station , one of those prehistoric survivals which are only to be found in our country villages , was toiling slowly up the hill . 
Lower down was a nurse girl wheeling a perambulator and leading a second child by the hand . 
The blue reeks of smoke from the cottages gave the whole widespread landscape an air of settled order and homely comfort . 
Nowhere in the blue heaven or on the sunlit earth was there any foreshadowing of a catastrophe . 
The harvesters were back in the fields once more and the golfers , in pairs and fours , were still streaming round the links . 
There was so strange a turmoil within my own head , and such a jangling of my overstrung nerves , that the indifference of those people was amazing . 
Those fellows don't seem to feel any ill effects , said I , pointing down at the links . 
Have you played golf ? asked Lord John . 
No , I have not . 
Well , young fellah , when you do you'll learn that once fairly out on a round , it would take the crack of doom to stop a true golfer . 
Halloa ! There's that telephone bell again . 
From time to time during and after lunch the high , insistent ring had summoned the Professor . 
He gave us the news as it came through to him in a few curt sentences . 
Such terrific items had never been registered in the world's history before . 
The great shadow was creeping up from the south like a rising tide of death . 
Egypt had gone through its delirium and was now comatose . 
Spain and Portugal , after a wild frenzy in which the Clericals and the Anarchists had fought most desperately , were now fallen silent . 
No cable messages were received any longer from South America . 
In North America the southern states , after some terrible racial rioting , had succumbed to the poison . 
North of Maryland the effect was not yet marked , and in Canada it was hardly perceptible . 
Belgium , Holland , and Denmark had each in turn been affected . 
Despairing messages were flashing from every quarter to the great centres of learning , to the chemists and the doctors of world wide repute , imploring their advice . 
The astronomers too were deluged with inquiries . 
The thing was universal and beyond our human knowledge or control . 
It was death painless but inevitable death for young and old , for weak and strong , for rich and poor , without hope or possibility of escape . 
Such was the news which , in scattered , distracted messages , the telephone had brought us . 
The great cities already knew their fate and so far as we could gather were preparing to meet it with dignity and resignation . 
Yet here were our golfers and laborers like the lambs who gambol under the shadow of the knife . 
And yet how could they know ? It had all come upon us in one giant stride . 
What was there in the morning paper to alarm them ? And now it was but three in the afternoon . 
Even as we looked some rumour seemed to have spread , for we saw the reapers hurrying from the fields . 
Some of the golfers were returning to the club house . 
They were running as if taking refuge from a shower . 
Their little caddies trailed behind them . 
Others were continuing their game . 
The nurse had turned and was pushing her perambulator hurriedly up the hill again . 
I noticed that she had her hand to her brow . 
The cab had stopped and the tired horse , with his head sunk to his knees , was resting . 
Above there was a perfect summer sky one huge vault of unbroken blue , save for a few fleecy white clouds over the distant downs . 
If the human race must die to day , it was at least upon a glorious death bed . 
And yet all that gentle loveliness of nature made this terrific and wholesale destruction the more pitiable and awful . 
Surely it was too goodly a residence that we should be so swiftly , so ruthlessly , evicted from it ! But I have said that the telephone bell had rung once more . 
Suddenly I heard Challenger's tremendous voice from the hall . 
I rushed down to the instrument . 
It was McArdle speaking from London . 
That you , Mr. Malone ? cried his familiar voice . 
Mr. Malone , there are terrible goings on in London . 
For God's sake , see if Professor Challenger can suggest anything that can be done . 
He can suggest nothing , sir , I answered . 
He regards the crisis as universal and inevitable . 
We have some oxygen here , but it can only defer our fate for a few hours . 
Oxygen ! cried the agonized voice . 
There is no time to get any . 
The office has been a perfect pandemonium ever since you left in the morning . 
Now half of the staff are insensible . 
I am weighed down with heaviness myself . 
From my window I can see the people lying thick in Fleet Street . 
The traffic is all held up . 
Judging by the last telegrams , the whole world His voice had been sinking , and suddenly stopped . 
An instant later I heard through the telephone a muffled thud , as if his head had fallen forward on the desk . 
Mr. McArdle ! I cried . 
Mr. McArdle ! There was no answer . 
I knew as I replaced the receiver that I should never hear his voice again . 
At that instant , just as I took a step backwards from the telephone , the thing was on us . 
It was as if we were bathers , up to our shoulders in water , who suddenly are submerged by a rolling wave . 
An invisible hand seemed to have quietly closed round my throat and to be gently pressing the life from me . 
I was conscious of immense oppression upon my chest , great tightness within my head , a loud singing in my ears , and bright flashes before my eyes . 
I staggered to the balustrades of the stair . 
At the same moment , rushing and snorting like a wounded buffalo , Challenger dashed past me , a terrible vision , with red purple face , engorged eyes , and bristling hair . 
The woman lay beside me , and Summerlee was bunched in a chair by the window , his head nearly touching his knees . 
As in a dream I saw Challenger , like a monstrous beetle , crawling slowly across the floor , and a moment later I heard the gentle hissing of the escaping oxygen . 
Challenger breathed two or three times with enormous gulps , his lungs roaring as he drew in the vital gas . 
It works ! he cried exultantly . 
My reasoning has been justified ! He was up on his feet again , alert and strong . 
With a tube in his hand he rushed over to his wife and held it to her face . 
In a few seconds she moaned , stirred , and sat up . 
He turned to me , and I felt the tide of life stealing warmly through my arteries . 
My reason told me that it was but a little respite , and yet , carelessly as we talk of its value , every hour of existence now seemed an inestimable thing . 
Never have I known such a thrill of sensuous joy as came with that freshet of life . 
The weight fell away from my lungs , the band loosened from my brow , a sweet feeling of peace and gentle , languid comfort stole over me . 
I lay watching Summerlee revive under the same remedy , and finally Lord John took his turn . 
He sprang to his feet and gave me a hand to rise , while Challenger picked up his wife and laid her on the settee . 
Oh , George , I am so sorry you brought me back , she said , holding him by the hand . 
The door of death is indeed , as you said , hung with beautiful , shimmering curtains for , once the choking feeling had passed , it was all unspeakably soothing and beautiful . 
Why have you dragged me back ? Because I wish that we make the passage together . 
We have been together so many years . 
It would be sad to fall apart at the supreme moment . 
Here in the shadow of death was the innermost Challenger , the man who had won and held a woman's love . 
Suddenly his mood changed and he was our strong captain once again . 
Alone of all mankind I saw and foretold this catastrophe , said he with a ring of exultation and scientific triumph in his voice . 
For once our pugnacious colleague was deaf to a challenge . 
He could but sit gasping and stretching his long , thin limbs , as if to assure himself that he was still really upon this planet . 
Challenger walked across to the oxygen tube , and the sound of the loud hissing fell away till it was the most gentle sibilation . 
We must husband our supply of the gas , said he . 
The atmosphere of the room is now strongly hyperoxygenated , and I take it that none of us feel any distressing symptoms . 
We can only determine by actual experiments what amount added to the air will serve to neutralize the poison . 
Let us see how that will do . 
We sat in silent nervous tension for five minutes or more , observing our own sensations . 
I had just begun to fancy that I felt the constriction round my temples again when Mrs. Challenger called out from the sofa that she was fainting . 
Her husband turned on more gas . 
You , my dear , will be our white mouse . 
I have now increased the supply and you are better . 
Yes , I am better . 
Possibly we have hit upon the correct mixture . 
When we have ascertained exactly how little will serve we shall be able to compute how long we shall be able to exist . 
Unfortunately , in resuscitating ourselves we have already consumed a considerable proportion of this first tube . 
Does it matter ? asked Lord John , who was standing with his hands in his pockets close to the window . 
If we have to go , what is the use of holdin' on ? You don't suppose there's any chance for us ? Challenger smiled and shook his head . 
Why not ? said the lady bravely . 
Surely , George , Lord John is right and it is better so . 
I most strongly object , cried Summerlee in a querulous voice . 
When we must die let us by all means die , but to deliberately anticipate death seems to me to be a foolish and unjustifiable action . 
What does our young friend say to it ? asked Challenger . 
I think we should see it to the end . 
And I am strongly of the same opinion , said he . 
Then , George , if you say so , I think so too , cried the lady . 
Well , well , I'm only puttin' it as an argument , said Lord John . 
If you all want to see it through I am with you . 
It's dooced interestin' , and no mistake about that . 
I've had my share of adventures in my life , and as many thrills as most folk , but I'm endin' on my top note . 
Granting the continuity of life , said Challenger . 
A large assumption ! cried Summerlee . 
Challenger stared at him in silent reproof . 
that it is while we are ourselves material that we are most fitted to watch and form a judgment upon material phenomena . 
To me it would seem a deplorable thing that we should in any way curtail by so much as a minute so wonderful an experience . 
I am strongly of the same opinion , cried Summerlee . 
Carried without a division , said Lord John . 
By George , that poor devil of a chauffeur of yours down in the yard has made his last journey . 
No use makin' a sally and bringin' him in ? It would be absolute madness , cried Summerlee . 
Well , I suppose it would , said Lord John . 
It couldn't help him and would scatter our gas all over the house , even if we ever got back alive . 
In the immediate foreground , beneath our very eyes , was the small yard with the half cleaned motor car standing in it . 
He still held in his hand the nozzle of the hose with which he had been washing down his machine . 
A couple of small plane trees stood in the corner of the yard , and underneath them lay several pathetic little balls of fluffy feathers , with tiny feet uplifted . 
The sweep of death's scythe had included everything , great and small , within its swath . 
Over the wall of the yard we looked down upon the winding road , which led to the station . 
A group of the reapers whom we had seen running from the fields were lying all pell mell , their bodies crossing each other , at the bottom of it . 
Farther up , the nurse girl lay with her head and shoulders propped against the slope of the grassy bank . 
She had taken the baby from the perambulator , and it was a motionless bundle of wraps in her arms . 
Close behind her a tiny patch upon the roadside showed where the little boy was stretched . 
Still nearer to us was the dead cab horse , kneeling between the shafts . 
The old driver was hanging over the splash board like some grotesque scarecrow , his arms dangling absurdly in front of him . 
Through the window we could dimly discern that a young man was seated inside . 
The door was swinging open and his hand was grasping the handle , as if he had attempted to leap forth at the last instant . 
On one particular green there were eight bodies stretched where a foursome with its caddies had held to their game to the last . 
No bird flew in the blue vault of heaven , no man or beast moved upon the vast countryside which lay before us . 
At the present instant that one frail sheet of glass , by holding in the extra oxygen which counteracted the poisoned ether , shut us off from the fate of all our kind . 
For a long time , in a mood which was too solemn for speech , we looked out at the tragic world . 
There is a house on fire , said Challenger at last , pointing to a column of smoke which rose above the trees . 
There will , I expect , be many such possibly whole cities in flames when we consider how many folk may have dropped with lights in their hands . 
The fact of combustion is in itself enough to show that the proportion of oxygen in the atmosphere is normal and that it is the ether which is at fault . 
Ah , there you see another blaze on the top of Crowborough Hill . 
It is the golf clubhouse , or I am mistaken . 
There is the church clock chiming the hour . 
It would interest our philosophers to know that man made mechanisms has survived the race who made it . 
By George ! cried Lord John , rising excitedly from his chair . 
What's that puff of smoke ? It's a train . 
We heard the roar of it , and presently it came flying into sight , going at what seemed to me to be a prodigious speed . 
Whence it had come , or how far , we had no means of knowing . 
Only by some miracle of luck could it have gone any distance . 
But now we were to see the terrific end of its career . 
A train of coal trucks stood motionless upon the line . 
We held our breath as the express roared along the same track . 
Engine and carriages piled themselves into a hill of splintered wood and twisted iron . 
Red spurts of flame flickered up from the wreckage until it was all ablaze . 
For half an hour we sat with hardly a word , stunned by the stupendous sight . 
Poor , poor people ! cried Mrs. Challenger at last , clinging with a whimper to her husband's arm . 
It was a train of the living when it left Victoria , but it was driven and freighted by the dead long before it reached its fate . 
All over the world the same thing must be going on , said I as a vision of strange happenings rose before me . 
Think of the ships at sea how they will steam on and on , until the furnaces die down or until they run full tilt upon some beach . 
Perhaps a century hence the Atlantic may still be dotted with the old drifting derelicts . 
And the folk in the coal mines , said Summerlee with a dismal chuckle . 
If ever geologists should by any chance live upon earth again they will have some strange theories of the existence of man in carboniferous strata . 
I don't profess to know about such things , remarked Lord John , but it seems to me the earth will be To let , empty , after this . 
When once our human crowd is wiped off it , how will it ever get on again ? The world was empty before , Challenger answered gravely . 
Under laws which in their inception are beyond and above us , it became peopled . 
Out went the beard and down came the eyelids . 
Well , you lived an obstinate dogmatist , and you mean to die one , said Summerlee sourly . 
And you , sir , have lived an unimaginative obstructionist and never can hope now to emerge from it . 
Your worst critics will never accuse you of lacking imagination , Summerlee retorted . 
Upon my word ! said Lord John . 
It would be like you if you used up our last gasp of oxygen in abusing each other . 
What can it matter whether folk come back or not ? It surely won't be in our time . 
In that remark , sir , you betray your own very pronounced limitations , said Challenger severely . 
The true scientific mind is not to be tied down by its own conditions of time and space . 
It builds itself an observatory erected upon the border line of present , which separates the infinite past from the infinite future . 
From this sure post it makes its sallies even to the beginning and to the end of all things . 
As to death , the scientific mind dies at its post working in normal and methodic fashion to the end . 
It disregards so petty a thing as its own physical dissolution as completely as it does all other limitations upon the plane of matter . 
Am I right , Professor Summerlee ? Summerlee grumbled an ungracious assent . 
With certain reservations , I agree , said he . 
Men of this strong fibre are needed to form the conquerors of nature and the bodyguard of truth . 
It strikes me nature's on top this time , said Lord John , looking out of the window . 
I've read some leadin' articles about you gentlemen controllin' her , but she's gettin' a bit of her own back . 
It is but a temporary setback , said Challenger with conviction . 
A few million years , what are they in the great cycle of time ? The vegetable world has , as you can see , survived . 
Look at the leaves of that plane tree . 
The birds are dead , but the plant flourishes . 
Once the lowest form of life has established itself , the final advent of man is as certain as the growth of the oak from the acorn . 
The old circle will swing round once more . 
But the poison ? I asked . 
Will that not nip life in the bud ? The poison may be a mere stratum or layer in the ether a mephitic Gulf Stream across that mighty ocean in which we float . 
Or tolerance may be established and life accommodate itself to a new condition . 
The smoking house beyond the trees had burst into flames . 
We could see the high tongues of fire shooting up into the air . 
It's pretty awful , muttered Lord John , more impressed than I had ever seen him . 
Well , after all , what does it matter ? I remarked . 
Cremation is surely the best burial . 
It would shorten us up if this house went ablaze . 
I foresaw the danger , said Challenger , and asked my wife to guard against it . 
Everything is quite safe , dear . 
But my head begins to throb again . 
What a dreadful atmosphere ! We must change it , said Challenger . 
He bent over his cylinder of oxygen . 
It's nearly empty , said he . 
It has lasted us some three and a half hours . 
It is now close on eight o'cloek . 
We shall get through the night comfortably . 
I should expect the end about nine o'clock to morrow morning . 
We shall see one sunrise , which shall be all our own . 
He turned on his second tube and opened for half a minute the fanlight over the door . 
Then as the air became perceptibly better , but our own symptoms more acute , he closed it once again . 
By the way , said he , man does not live upon oxygen alone . 
It's dinner time and over . 
However , we must do what we can . 
I am sure that you will agree with me that it would be folly to consume our air too rapidly by lighting an oil stove . 
I have some small provision of cold meats , bread , and pickles which , with a couple of bottles of claret , may serve our turn . 
Thank you , my dear now as ever you are the queen of managers . 
Wonderful also was it to find that our appetites were ravenous . 
It is the measure of our emotion , said Challenger with that air of condescension with which he brought his scientific mind to the explanation of humble facts . 
We have gone through a great crisis . 
That in turn means the need for repair . 
Great sorrow or great joy should bring intense hunger not abstinence from food , as our novelists will have it . 
That's why the country folk have great feasts at funerals , I hazarded . 
Our young friend has hit upon an excellent illustration . 
Let me give you another slice of tongue . 
The same with savages , said Lord John , cutting away at the beef . 
I've seen them buryin' a chief up the Aruwimi River , and they ate a hippo that must have weighed as much as a tribe . 
There are some of them down New Guinea way that eat the late lamented himself , just by way of a last tidy up . 
Well , of all the funeral feasts on this earth , I suppose the one we are takin' is the queerest . 
The strange thing is , said Mrs. Challenger , that I find it impossible to feel grief for those who are gone . 
There are my father and mother at Bedford . 
I know that they are dead , and yet in this tremendous universal tragedy I can feel no sharp sorrow for any individuals , even for them . 
her ? She has passed and I am passing , and I may be nearer her in some other life than England is to Ireland . 
Yet I grieve to think that that dear body is no more . 
As to the body , remarked Challenger , we do not mourn over the parings of our nails nor the cut locks of our hair , though they were once part of ourselves . 
Neither does a one legged man yearn sentimentally over his missing member . 
The physical body has rather been a source of pain and fatigue to us . 
It is the constant index of our limitations . 
Why then should we worry about its detachment from our psychical selves ? If they can indeed be detached , Summerlee grumbled . 
But , anyhow , universal death is dreadful . 
As I have already explained , said Challenger , a universal death must in its nature be far less terrible than a isolated one . 
Same in a battle , remarked Lord John . 
If you saw a single man lying on that floor with his chest knocked in and a hole in his face it would turn you sick . 
When a thousand million pass over together , same as happened to day , you can't pick your own partic'lar out of the crowd . 
I wish it were well over with us , said the lady wistfully . 
Oh , George , I am so frightened . 
You'll be the bravest of us all , little lady , when the time comes . 
I've been a blusterous old husband to you , dear , but you'll just bear in mind that G. E. C. is as he was made and couldn't help himself . 
After all , you wouldn't have had anyone else ? No one in the whole wide world , dear , said she , and put her arms round his bull neck . 
We three walked to the window and stood amazed at the sight which met our eyes . 
Darkness had fallen and the dead world was shrouded in gloom . 
Lewes is ablaze ! No , it is Brighton which is burning , said Challenger , stepping across to join us . 
You can see the curved back of the downs against the glow . 
That fire is miles on the farther side of it . 
The whole town must be alight . 
But the long night had to be passed somehow , and for me at least , sleep seemed to be out of the question . 
My notes would help to pass the weary hours and to occupy my thoughts . 
Thus it is that now I have before me the notebook with its scribbled pages , written confusedly upon my knee in the dim , waning light of our one electric torch . 
But of that there can surely be no danger . 
Already our second tube of oxygen is drawing to an end . 
We can count the poor dregs of our lives almost to a minute . 
Challenger sat at the centre table with the electric light illuminating the slide under the microscope which he had brought from his dressing room . 
The small vivid circle of white light from the mirror left half of his rugged , bearded face in brilliant radiance and half in deepest shadow . 
You can see it for yourselves , he kept repeating in great excitement . 
But the right hand side you will see an undoubted amoeba , moving sluggishly across the field . 
The upper screw is the fine adjustment . 
Look at it for yourselves . 
Summerlee did so and acquiesced . 
So did I and perceived a little creature which looked as if it were made of ground glass flowing in a sticky way across the lighted circle . 
Lord John was prepared to take him on trust . 
I'm not troublin' my head whether he's alive or dead , said he . 
We don't so much as know each other by sight , so why should I take it to heart ? I don't suppose he's worryin' himself over the state of OUR health . 
I laughed at this , and Challenger looked in my direction with his coldest and most supercilious stare . 
It was a most petrifying experience . 
The flippancy of the half educated is more obstructive to science than the obtuseness of the ignorant , said he . 
If Lord John Roxton would condescend My dear George , don't be so peppery , said his wife , with her hand on the black mane that drooped over the microscope . 
What can it matter whether the amoeba is alive or not ? It matters a great deal , said Challenger gruffly . 
Well , let's hear about it , said Lord John with a good humoured smile . 
We may as well talk about that as anything else . 
If you think I've been too off hand with the thing , or hurt its feelin's in any way , I'll apologize . 
For my part , remarked Summerlee in his creaky , argumentative voice , I can't see why you should attach such importance to the creature being alive . 
It is in the same atmosphere as ourselves , so naturally the poison does not act upon it . 
If it were outside of this room it would be dead , like all other animal life . 
your remarks show that you imperfectly appreciate the situation . 
This specimen was mounted yesterday and is hermetically sealed . 
None of our oxygen can reach it . 
But the ether , of course , has penetrated to it , as to every other point upon the universe . 
Therefore , it has survived the poison . 
Hence , we may argue that every amoeba outside this room , instead of being dead , as you have erroneously stated , has really survived the catastrophe . 
Well , even now I don't feel inclined to hip hurrah about it , said Lord John . 
What does it matter ? It just matters this , that the world is a living instead of a dead one . 
You have seen a prairie fire where the flames have swept every trace of grass or plant from the surface of the earth and left only a blackened waste . 
You would think that it must be forever desert . 
Yet the roots of growth have been left behind , and when you pass the place a few years hence you can no longer tell where the black scars used to be . 
Dooced interestin' ! said Lord John , lounging across and looking through the microscope . 
Funny little chap to hang number one among the family portraits . 
Got a fine big shirt stud on him ! The dark object is his nucleus , said Challenger with the air of a nurse teaching letters to a baby . 
Well , we needn't feel lonely , said Lord John laughing . 
There's somebody livin' besides us on the earth . 
You seem to take it for granted , Challenger , said Summerlee , that the object for which this world was created was that it should produce and sustain human life . 
Well , sir , and what object do you suggest ? asked Challenger , bristling at the least hint of contradiction . 
Sometimes I think that it is only the monstrous conceit of mankind which makes him think that all this stage was erected for him to strut upon . 
We cannot be dogmatic about it , but at least without what you have ventured to call monstrous conceit we can surely say that we are the highest thing in nature . 
The highest of which we have cognizance . 
That , sir , goes without saying . 
Think of it , washed by the rain and scorched by the sun and swept by the wind for those unnumbered ages . 
Man only came into being yesterday so far as geological times goes . 
Why , then , should it be taken for granted that all this stupendous preparation was for his benefit ? For whose then or for what ? Summerlee shrugged his shoulders . 
How can we tell ? For some reason altogether beyond our conception and man may have been a mere accident , a by product evolved in the process . 
I have jotted down the very words of their argument , but now it degenerates into a mere noisy wrangle with much polysyllabic scientific jargon upon each side . 
They neutralize each other and we are left as they found us . 
Lord John comes over to me , and we look out together into the night . 
There is a pale new moon the last moon that human eyes will ever rest upon and the stars are most brilliant . 
Even in the clear plateau air of South America I have never seen them brighter . 
Possibly this etheric change has some effect upon light . 
I sit and muse and make an occasional note . 
There is a sweet melancholy in the air . 
Youth and beauty and chivalry and love is this to be the end of it all ? The starlit earth looks a dreamland of gentle peace . 
Who would imagine it as the terrible Golgotha strewn with the bodies of the human race ? Suddenly , I find myself laughing . 
Halloa , young fellah ! says Lord John , staring at me in surprise . 
We could do with a joke in these hard times . 
What was it , then ? I was thinking of all the great unsolved questions , I answer , the questions that we spent so much labor and thought over . 
Think of Anglo German competition , for example or the Persian Gulf that my old chief was so keen about . 
Whoever would have guessed , when we fumed and fretted so , how they were to be eventually solved ? We fall into silence again . 
I fancy that each of us is thinking of friends that have gone before . 
Mrs. Challenger is sobbing quietly , and her husband is whispering to her . 
My mind turns to all the most unlikely people , and I see each of them lying white and rigid as poor Austin does in the yard . 
Beaumont , the editor , too I suppose he is lying upon the blue and red Turkey carpet which adorned his sanctum . 
And the fellows in the reporters' room Macdona and Murray and Bond . 
They had certainly died hard at work on their job , with note books full of vivid impressions and strange happenings in their hands . 
I could just imagine how this one would have been packed off to the doctors , and that other to Westminster , and yet a third to St . 
Interview with Mr. Soley Wilson . 
With a manner which plainly showed his appreciation of the immense gravity of the occasion , the celebrated physician refused to admit that every avenue of hope had been closed . 
That's how Mac would start . 
Then there was Bond he would probably do St . 
He fancied his own literary touch . 
Yes , it would be a great end for a reporter , though , like myself , he would die with the treasures still unused . 
Mrs. Challenger has gone to the inner dressing room , and the Professor says that she is asleep . 
He is making notes and consulting books at the central table , as calmly as if years of placid work lay before him . 
He writes with a very noisy quill pen which seems to be screeching scorn at all who disagree with him . 
Summerlee has dropped off in his chair and gives from time to time a peculiarly exasperating snore . 
Lord John lies back with his hands in his pockets and his eyes closed . 
How people can sleep under such conditions is more than I can imagine . 
I have just wakened with a start . 
It was five minutes past eleven when I made my last entry . 
I remember winding up my watch and noting the time . 
So I have wasted some five hours of the little span still left to us . 
Who would have believed it possible ? But I feel very much fresher , and ready for my fate or try to persuade myself that I am . 
And yet , the fitter a man is , and the higher his tide of life , the more must he shrink from death . 
Challenger has fallen asleep in his chair . 
He shakes with the vibration of his own snoring . 
Summerlee adds his occasional high tenor to Challenger's sonorous bass . 
Lord John is sleeping also , his long body doubled up sideways in a basket chair . 
The first cold light of dawn is just stealing into the room , and everything is grey and mournful . 
I look out at the sunrise that fateful sunrise which will shine upon an unpeopled world . 
Down in the yard lies Austin with sprawling limbs , his face glimmering white in the dawn , and the hose nozzle still projecting from his dead hand . 
The whole of human kind is typified in that one half ludicrous and half pathetic figure , lying so helpless beside the machine which it used to control . 
Here end the notes which I made at the time . 
Henceforward events were too swift and too poignant to allow me to write , but they are too clearly outlined in my memory that any detail could escape me . 
Some chokiness in my throat made me look at the oxygen cylinders , and I was startled at what I saw . 
The sands of our lives were running very low . 
At some period in the night Challenger had switched the tube from the third to the fourth cylinder . 
Now it was clear that this also was nearly exhausted . 
That horrible feeling of constriction was closing in upon me . 
I ran across and , unscrewing the nozzle , I changed it to our last supply . 
Even as I did so my conscience pricked me , for I felt that perhaps if I had held my hand all of them might have passed in their sleep . 
I have just turned on a fresh supply . 
Summerlee was shivering like a man with the ague , human fears , as he realized his position , rising for an instant above the stoicism of the man of science . 
Lord John , however , was as cool and alert as if he had just been roused on a hunting morning . 
Fifthly and lastly , said he , glancing at the tube . 
Say , young fellah , don't tell me you've been writin' up your impressions in that paper on your knee . 
Just a few notes to pass the time . 
Well , I don't believe anyone but an Irishman would have done that . 
I expect you'll have to wait till little brother amoeba gets grown up before you'll find a reader . 
He don't seem to take much stock of things just at present . 
Well , Herr Professor , what are the prospects ? Challenger was looking out at the great drifts of morning mist which lay over the landscape . 
Here and there the wooded hills rose like conical islands out of this woolly sea . 
It might be a winding sheet , said Mrs. Challenger , who had entered in her dressing gown . 
There's that song of yours , George , Ring out the old , ring in the new . 
But you are shivering , my poor dear friends . 
I have been warm under a coverlet all night , and you cold in your chairs . 
But I'll soon set you right . 
The brave little creature hurried away , and presently we heard the sizzling of a kettle . 
She was back soon with five steaming cups of cocoa upon a tray . 
Drink these , said she . 
You will feel so much better . 
Summerlee asked if he might light his pipe , and we all had cigarettes . 
It steadied our nerves , I think , but it was a mistake , for it made a dreadful atmosphere in that stuffy room . 
Challenger had to open the ventilator . 
How long , Challenger ? asked Lord John . 
Possibly three hours , he answered with a shrug . 
I used to be frightened , said his wife . 
But the nearer I get to it , the easier it seems . 
Don't you think we ought to pray , George ? You will pray , dear , if you wish , the big man answered , very gently . 
We all have our own ways of praying . 
Mine is a complete acquiescence in whatever fate may send me a cheerful acquiescence . 
The highest religion and the highest science seem to unite on that . 
I cannot truthfully describe my mental attitude as acquiescence and far less cheerful acquiescence , grumbled Summerlee over his pipe . 
I submit because I have to . 
I confess that I should have liked another year of life to finish my classification of the chalk fossils . 
My brain , my reading , my experience in fact , my whole unique equipment were to be condensed into that epoch making volume . 
And yet , as I say , I acquiesce . 
I expect we've all left some loose ends stickin' out , said Lord John . 
What are yours , young fellah ? I was working at a book of verses , I answered . 
Well , the world has escaped that , anyhow , said Lord John . 
There's always compensation somewhere if you grope around . 
What about you ? I asked . 
Well , it just so happens that I was tidied up and ready . 
I'd promised Merivale to go to Tibet for a snow leopard in the spring . 
But it's hard on you , Mrs. Challenger , when you have just built up this pretty home . 
Where George is , there is my home . 
But , oh , what would I not give for one last walk together in the fresh morning air upon those beautiful downs ! Our hearts re echoed her words . 
The sun had burst through the gauzy mists which veiled it , and the whole broad Weald was washed in golden light . 
Sitting in our dark and poisonous atmosphere that glorious , clean , wind swept countryside seemed a very dream of beauty . 
Mrs. Challenger held her hand stretched out to it in her longing . 
We drew up chairs and sat in a semicircle in the window . 
The atmosphere was already very close . 
It seemed to me that the shadows of death were drawing in upon us the last of our race . 
It was like an invisible curtain closing down upon every side . 
That cylinder is not lastin' too well , said Lord John with a long gasp for breath . 
The amount contained is variable , said Challenger , depending upon the pressure and care with which it has been bottled . 
I am inclined to agree with you , Roxton , that this one is defective . 
So we are to be cheated out of the last hour of our lives , Summerlee remarked bitterly . 
An excellent final illustration of the sordid age in which we have lived . 
Well , Challenger , now is your time if you wish to study the subjective phenomena of physical dissolution . 
Sit on the stool at my knee and give me your hand , said Challenger to his wife . 
I think , my friends , that a further delay in this insufferable atmosphere is hardly advisable . 
You would not desire it , dear , would you ? His wife gave a little groan and sank her face against his leg . 
I've seen the folk bathin' in the Serpentine in winter , said Lord John . 
When the rest are in , you see one or two shiverin' on the bank , envyin' the others that have taken the plunge . 
It's the last that have the worst of it . 
I'm all for a header and have done with it . 
You would open the window and face the ether ? Better be poisoned than stifled . 
Summerlee nodded his reluctant acquiescence and held out his thin hand to Challenger . 
We've had our quarrels in our time , but that's all over , said he . 
We were good friends and had a respect for each other under the surface . 
Good by ! Good by , young fellah ! said Lord John . 
Challenger stooped and raised his wife , pressing her to his breast , while she threw her arms round his neck . 
Give me that field glass , Malone , said he gravely . 
I handed it to him . 
Full in our flushed faces , before the last tinkle of falling fragments had died away , there came the wholesome breath of the wind , blowing strong and sweet . 
I don't know how long we sat in amazed silence . 
Then as in a dream , I heard Challenger's voice once more . 
We are back in normal conditions , he cried . 
The world has cleared the poison belt , but we alone of all mankind are saved . 
I wonder how long we sat ! None of us afterwards could agree at all on that point . 
We were bewildered , stunned , semi conscious . 
Then gradually the suspended mechanism began to move once more the shuttles of memory worked ideas weaved themselves together in our minds . 
Our eyes turned in silent horror upon those of our companions and found the same answering look in theirs . 
Instead of the joy which men might have been expected to feel who had so narrowly escaped an imminent death , a terrible wave of darkest depression submerged us . 
A few years' skulking like jackals among the graves of the human race and then our belated and lonely end would come . 
It's dreadful , George , dreadful ! the lady cried in an agony of sobs . 
If we had only passed with the others ! Oh , why did you save us ? I feel as if it is we that are dead and everyone else alive . 
Challenger's great eyebrows were drawn down in concentrated thought , while his huge , hairy paw closed upon the outstretched hand of his wife . 
I had observed that she always held out her arms to him in trouble as a child would to its mother . 
Without being a fatalist to the point of nonresistance , said he , I have always found that the highest wisdom lies in an acquiescence with the actual . 
He spoke slowly , and there was a vibration of feeling in his sonorous voice . 
I do NOT acquiesce , said Summerlee firmly . 
I don't see that it matters a row of pins whether you acquiesce or whether you don't , remarked Lord John . 
You can swim with the tide and have peace in mind and soul , or you can thrust against it and be bruised and weary . 
This business is beyond us , so let us accept it as it stands and say no more . 
But what in the world are we to do with our lives ? I asked , appealing in desperation to the blue , empty heaven . 
What am I to do , for example ? There are no newspapers , so there's an end of my vocation . 
And there's nothin' left to shoot , and no more soldierin' , so there's an end of mine , said Lord John . 
And there are no students , so there's an end of mine , cried Summerlee . 
But I have my husband and my house , so I can thank heaven that there is no end of mine , said the lady . 
Nor is there an end of mine , remarked Challenger , for science is not dead , and this catastrophe in itself will offer us many most absorbing problems for investigation . 
He had now flung open the windows and we were gazing out upon the silent and motionless landscape . 
Let me consider , he continued . 
It was about three , or a little after , yesterday afternoon that the world finally entered the poison belt to the extent of being completely submerged . 
It is now nine o'clock . 
The question is , at what hour did we pass out from it ? The air was very bad at daybreak , said I. Later than that , said Mrs. Challenger . 
As late as eight o'clock I distinctly felt the same choking at my throat which came at the outset . 
Then we shall say that it passed just after eight o'clock . 
For seventeen hours the world has been soaked in the poisonous ether . 
For that length of time the Great Gardener has sterilized the human mold which had grown over the surface of His fruit . 
Is it possible that the work is incompletely done that others may have survived besides ourselves ? That's what I was wonderin' said Lord John . 
Why should we be the only pebbles on the beach ? It is absurd to suppose that anyone besides ourselves can possibly have survived , said Summerlee with conviction . 
Is it likely that anyone could stand seventeen minutes of it , far less hours ? Unless someone saw it coming and made preparation , same as old friend Challenger did . 
That , I think , is hardly probable , said Challenger , projecting his beard and sinking his eyelids . 
The combination of observation , inference , and anticipatory imagination which enabled me to foresee the danger is what one can hardly expect twice in the same generation . 
Then your conclusion is that everyone is certainly dead ? There can be little doubt of that . 
We have to remember , however , that the poison worked from below upwards and would possibly be less virulent in the higher strata of the atmosphere . 
It is strange , indeed , that it should be so but it presents one of those features which will afford us in the future a fascinating field for study . 
Well , considerin' that there are no railroads and no steamers you might as well talk about survivors in the moon , said Lord John . 
But what I'm askin' myself is whether it's really over or whether it's only half time . 
Summerlee craned his neck to look round the horizon . 
It seems clear and fine , said he in a very dubious voice but so it did yesterday . 
I am by no means assured that it is all over . 
We must come back once more to our fatalism , said he . 
If the world has undergone this experience before , which is not outside the range of possibility it was certainly a very long time ago . 
Therefore , we may reasonably hope that it will be very long before it occurs again . 
That's all very well , said Lord John , but if you get an earthquake shock you are mighty likely to have a second one right on the top of it . 
I think we'd be wise to stretch our legs and have a breath of air while we have the chance . 
Since our oxygen is exhausted we may just as well be caught outside as in . 
It was strange the absolute lethargy which had come upon us as a reaction after our tremendous emotions of the last twenty four hours . 
It was both mental and physical , a deep lying feeling that nothing mattered and that everything was a weariness and a profitless exertion . 
However , once we had got out of our narrow haven of refuge into the wider atmosphere of everyday life , our normal energy came gradually back to us once more . 
All the stores of food , all the vintages of wine , all the treasures of art were ours for the taking . 
But what were we to DO ? Some few tasks appealed to us at once , since they lay ready to our hands . 
We descended into the kitchen and laid the two domestics upon their respective beds . 
They seemed to have died without suffering , one in the chair by the fire , the other upon the scullery floor . 
Then we carried in poor Austin from the yard . 
His muscles were set as hard as a board in the most exaggerated rigor mortis , while the contraction of the fibres had drawn his mouth into a hard sardonic grin . 
This symptom was prevalent among all who had died from the poison . 
Wherever we went we were confronted by those grinning faces , which seemed to mock at our dreadful position , smiling silently and grimly at the ill fated survivors of their race . 
Perhaps , Challenger answered , you would have the kindness to suggest what you think we ought to do . 
Get a move on us and see all that has happened . 
That is what I should myself propose . 
But not in this little country village . 
We can see from the window all that this place can teach us . 
Where should we go , then ? To London ! That's all very well , grumbled Summerlee . 
You may be equal to a forty mile walk , but I'm not so sure about Challenger , with his stumpy legs , and I am perfectly sure about myself . 
Challenger was very much annoyed . 
If you could see your way , sir , to confining your remarks to your own physical peculiarities , you would find that you had an ample field for comment , he cried . 
I had no intention to offend you , my dear Challenger , cried our tactless friend , You can't be held responsible for your own physique . 
If nature has given you a short , heavy body you cannot possibly help having stumpy legs . 
Challenger was too furious to answer . 
He could only growl and blink and bristle . 
Lord John hastened to intervene before the dispute became more violent . 
Why should we walk ? said he . 
Do you suggest taking a train ? asked Challenger , still simmering . 
What's the matter with the motor car ? Why should we not go in that ? I am not an expert , said Challenger , pulling at his beard reflectively . 
At the same time , you are right in supposing that the human intellect in its higher manifestations should be sufficiently flexible to turn itself to anything . 
Your idea is an excellent one , Lord John . 
I myself will drive you all to London . 
You will do nothing of the kind , said Summerlee with decision . 
No , indeed , George ! cried his wife . 
You only tried once , and you remember how you crashed through the gate of the garage . 
It was a momentary want of concentration , said Challenger complacently . 
You can consider the matter settled . 
I will certainly drive you all to London . 
The situation was relieved by Lord John . 
What's the car ? he asked . 
Why , I've driven one for years , said he . 
By George ! he added . 
I never thought I'd live to take the whole human race in one load . 
There's just room for five , as I remember it . 
Get your things on , and I'll be ready at the door by ten o'clock . 
Sure enough , at the hour named , the car came purring and crackling from the yard with Lord John at the wheel . 
I took my seat beside him , while the lady , a useful little buffer state , was squeezed in between the two men of wrath at the back . 
This deadly silence was appalling . 
And then there were the dead ! At first those endless groups of drawn and grinning faces filled us with a shuddering horror . 
Lower down were six reapers all in a litter , their limbs crossing , their dead , unwinking eyes gazing upwards at the glare of heaven . 
These things I see as in a photograph . 
But soon , by the merciful provision of nature , the over excited nerve ceased to respond . 
The very vastness of the horror took away from its personal appeal . 
Individuals merged into groups , groups into crowds , crowds into a universal phenomenon which one soon accepted as the inevitable detail of every scene . 
Above all , there was the fate of the children . 
That , I remember , filled us with the strongest sense of intolerable injustice . 
We could have wept Mrs. Challenger did weep when we passed a great council school and saw the long trail of tiny figures scattered down the road which led from it . 
They had been dismissed by their terrified teachers and were speeding for their homes when the poison caught them in its net . 
Great numbers of people were at the open windows of the houses . 
In Tunbridge Wells there was hardly one which had not its staring , smiling face . 
At the last instant the need of air , that very craving for oxygen which we alone had been able to satisfy , had sent them flying to the window . 
The sidewalks too were littered with men and women , hatless and bonnetless , who had rushed out of the houses . 
Many of them had fallen in the roadway . 
It was a lucky thing that in Lord John we had found an expert driver , for it was no easy matter to pick one's way . 
A few small , definite pictures stand out in my memory from amid that long panorama of death upon the Sussex and Kentish high roads . 
One was that of a great , glittering motor car standing outside the inn at the village of Southborough . 
It bore , as I should guess , some pleasure party upon their return from Brighton or from Eastbourne . 
There were three gaily dressed women , all young and beautiful , one of them with a Peking spaniel upon her lap . 
Death must have come on them in an instant and fixed them as they sat . 
Save that the elderly man had at the last moment torn out his collar in an effort to breathe , they might all have been asleep . 
On one side of the car a waiter with some broken glasses beside a tray was huddled near the step . 
One instant of time had put aristocrat , waiter , tramp , and dog upon one common footing of inert and dissolving protoplasm . 
I remember another singular picture , some miles on the London side of Sevenoaks . 
There is a large convent upon the left , with a long , green slope in front of it . 
Upon this slope were assembled a great number of school children , all kneeling at prayer . 
In front of them was a fringe of nuns , and higher up the slope , facing towards them , a single figure whom we took to be the Mother Superior . 
My mind is still stunned by that terrific experience , and I grope vainly for means of expression by which I can reproduce the emotions which we felt . 
Perhaps it is best and wisest not to try , but merely to indicate the facts . 
Even Summerlee and Challenger were crushed , and we heard nothing of our companions behind us save an occasional whimper from the lady . 
As to Lord John , he was too intent upon his wheel and the difficult task of threading his way along such roads to have time or inclination for conversation . 
One phrase he used with such wearisome iteration that it stuck in my memory and at last almost made me laugh as a comment upon the day of doom . 
Pretty doin's ! What ! That was his ejaculation as each fresh tremendous combination of death and disaster displayed itself before us . 
It was here that we received a sudden and amazing shock . 
Out of the window of a humble corner house there appeared a fluttering handkerchief waving at the end of a long , thin human arm . 
Never had the sight of unexpected death caused our hearts to stop and then throb so wildly as did this amazing indication of life . 
She turned her thin , drawn , bespectacled face toward us as we crowded in at the doorway . 
I feared that I was abandoned here forever , said she , for I am an invalid and cannot stir . 
Well , madam , Challenger answered , it is a lucky chance that we happened to pass . 
I have one all important question to ask you , said she . 
Gentlemen , I beg that you will be frank with me . 
What effect will these events have upon London and North Western Railway shares ? We should have laughed had it not been for the tragic eagerness with which she listened for our answer . 
Mrs. Burston , for that was her name , was an aged widow , whose whole income depended upon a small holding of this stock . 
Her life had been regulated by the rise and fall of the dividend , and she could form no conception of existence save as it was affected by the quotation of her shares . 
In vain we pointed out to her that all the money in the world was hers for the taking and was useless when taken . 
Her old mind would not adapt itself to the new idea , and she wept loudly over her vanished stock . 
It was all I had , she wailed . 
If that is gone I may as well go too . 
Amid her lamentations we found out how this frail old plant had lived where the whole great forest had fallen . 
She was a confirmed invalid and an asthmatic . 
Oxygen had been prescribed for her malady , and a tube was in her room at the moment of the crisis . 
She had naturally inhaled some as had been her habit when there was a difficulty with her breathing . 
It had given her relief , and by doling out her supply she had managed to survive the night . 
Finally she had fallen asleep and been awakened by the buzz of our motor car . 
So we left her , still weeping bitterly over her vanished stock . 
As we approached the Thames the block in the streets became thicker and the obstacles more bewildering . 
It was with difficulty that we made our way across London Bridge . 
The approaches to it upon the Middlesex side were choked from end to end with frozen traffic which made all further advance in that direction impossible . 
A ship was blazing brightly alongside one of the wharves near the bridge , and the air was full of drifting smuts and of a heavy acrid smell of burning . 
There was a cloud of dense smoke somewhere near the Houses of Parliament , but it was impossible from where we were to see what was on fire . 
I don't know how it strikes you , Lord John remarked as he brought his engine to a standstill , but it seems to me the country is more cheerful than the town . 
Dead London is gettin' on my nerves . 
I'm for a cast round and then gettin' back to Rotherfield . 
I confess that I do not see what we can hope for here , said Professor Summerlee . 
If there should be others , how can we hope to find them , George ? asked the lady . 
And yet I agree with you that we cannot go back until we have tried . 
It was a corner house , and we chose it as commanding a view in every direction . 
Ascending the stair , we passed through what I suppose to have been the board room , for eight elderly men were seated round a long table in the centre of it . 
The high window was open and we all stepped out upon the balcony . 
From it we could see the crowded city streets radiating in every direction , while below us the road was black from side to side with the tops of the motionless taxis . 
Here and there amid the humbler cabs towered the great brass spangled motor car of some wealthy magnate , wedged hopelessly among the dammed stream of arrested traffic . 
A paper cart had got blocked in the crowd , and we could read in large letters , black upon yellow , Scene at Lord's . 
This must have been the earliest edition , for there were other placards bearing the legend , Is It the End ? Great Scientist's Warning . 
And another , Is Challenger Justified ? Ominous Rumours . 
Challenger pointed the latter placard out to his wife , as it thrust itself like a banner above the throng . 
I could see him throw out his chest and stroke his beard as he looked at it . 
It pleased and flattered that complex mind to think that London had died with his name and his words still present in their thoughts . 
His feelings were so evident that they aroused the sardonic comment of his colleague . 
In the limelight to the last , Challenger , he remarked . 
So it would appear , he answered complacently . 
I suggest that we return at once to Rotherfield and then take counsel as to how we shall most profitably employ the years which lie before us . 
Only one other picture shall I give of the scenes which we carried back in our memories from the dead city . 
It is a glimpse which we had of the interior of the old church of St . 
Mary's , which is at the very point where our car was awaiting us . 
Picking our way among the prostrate figures upon the steps , we pushed open the swing door and entered . 
It was a wonderful sight . 
The church was crammed from end to end with kneeling figures in every posture of supplication and abasement . 
He lay now , like Punch in his booth , with his head and two limp arms hanging over the ledge of the pulpit . 
It was a nightmare , the grey , dusty church , the rows of agonized figures , the dimness and silence of it all . 
We moved about with hushed whispers , walking upon our tip toes . 
And then suddenly I had an idea . 
At one corner of the church , near the door , stood the ancient font , and behind it a deep recess in which there hung the ropes for the bell ringers . 
Lord John had followed me . 
By George , young fellah ! said he , pulling off his coat . 
You've hit on a dooced good notion . 
Give me a grip and we'll soon have a move on it . 
Far over dead London resounded our message of comradeship and hope to any fellow man surviving . 
For half an hour we worked , the sweat dropping from our faces , our arms and backs aching with the exertion . 
Then we went out into the portico of the church and looked eagerly up and down the silent , crowded streets . 
Not a sound , not a motion , in answer to our summons . 
No one is left , I cried . 
We can do nothing more , said Mrs. Challenger . 
For God's sake , George , let us get back to Rotherfield . 
Another hour of this dreadful , silent city would drive me mad . 
We got into the car without another word . 
Lord John backed her round and turned her to the south . 
To us the chapter seemed closed . 
Little did we foresee the strange new chapter which was to open . 
Our generation has been reserved for a very special fate since it has been chosen to experience so wonderful a thing . 
How long its effect may last how long mankind may preserve the humility and reverence which this great shock has taught it can only be shown by the future . 
I think it is safe to say that things can never be quite the same again . 
Death has been imminent upon us . 
We know that at any moment it may be again . 
But if the world has grown graver with this knowledge it is not , I think , a sadder place in consequence . 
There is some clash of opinion as to the exact hour of the great awakening . 
It is generally agreed that , apart from the difference of clocks , there may have been local causes which influenced the action of the poison . 
Certainly , in each separate district the resurrection was practically simultaneous . 
There are numerous witnesses that Big Ben pointed to ten minutes past six at the moment . 
The Astronomer Royal has fixed the Greenwich time at twelve past six . 
On the other hand , Laird Johnson , a very capable East Anglia observer , has recorded six twenty as the hour . 
In the Hebrides it was as late as seven . 
In our own case there can be no doubt whatever , for I was seated in Challenger's study with his carefully tested chronometer in front of me at the moment . 
The hour was a quarter past six . 
An enormous depression was weighing upon my spirits . 
The cumulative effect of all the dreadful sights which we had seen upon our journey was heavy upon my soul . 
With my abounding animal health and great physical energy any kind of mental clouding was a rare event . 
I had the Irish faculty of seeing some gleam of humor in every darkness . 
But now the obscurity was appalling and unrelieved . 
The others were downstairs making their plans for the future . 
I sat by the open window , my chin resting upon my hand and my mind absorbed in the misery of our situation . 
Could we continue to live ? That was the question which I had begun to ask myself . 
And yet I remember that it was that absurd , emaciated , superannuated cab horse which held my gaze . 
Slowly and wheezily it was climbing the slope . 
Then my eye traveled to the driver sitting hunched up upon the box and finally to the young man who was leaning out of the window in some excitement and shouting a direction . 
Then I looked down , and there was the rising blister on my hand where it was frayed by the rope of the city bell . 
It had really been so , then . 
And yet here was the world resuscitated here was life come back in an instant full tide to the planet . 
The reapers were slowly trooping back to their work . 
The nurse girl slapped one of her charges and then began to push the perambulator up the hill . 
Everyone had unconcernedly taken up the thread at the very point where they had dropped it . 
I rushed downstairs , but the hall door was open , and I heard the voices of my companions , loud in astonishment and congratulation , in the yard . 
But they could not have been asleep ! cried Lord John . 
It has been a rare phenomenon in the past and has constantly been mistaken for death . 
While it endures , the temperature falls , the respiration disappears , the heartbeat is indistinguishable in fact , it IS death , save that it is evanescent . 
Even the most comprehensive mind here he closed his eyes and simpered could hardly conceive a universal outbreak of it in this fashion . 
The most we can say is that the vitiated ether has produced a temporary death . 
Austin was seated all in a heap on the step of the car . 
It was his coughing which I had heard from above . 
He had been holding his head in silence , but now he was muttering to himself and running his eyes over the car . 
Young fat head ! he grumbled . 
Can't leave things alone ! What's the matter , Austin ? Lubricators left running , sir . 
Someone has been fooling with the car . 
I expect it's that young garden boy , sir . 
I don't know what's amiss with me , continued Austin , staggering to his feet . 
I expect I came over queer when I was hosing her down . 
I seem to remember flopping over by the step . 
But I'll swear I never left those lubricator taps on . 
In a condensed narrative the astonished Austin was told what had happened to himself and the world . 
The mystery of the dripping lubricators was also explained to him . 
I can remember his comment when the story was concluded . 
Was you outside the Bank of England , sir ? Yes , Austin . 
With all them millions inside and everybody asleep ? That was so . 
And I not there ! he groaned , and turned dismally once more to the hosing of his car . 
There was a sudden grinding of wheels upon gravel . 
The old cab had actually pulled up at Challenger's door . 
I saw the young occupant step out from it . 
An instant later the maid , who looked as tousled and bewildered as if she had that instant been aroused from the deepest sleep , appeared with a card upon a tray . 
Challenger snorted ferociously as he looked at it , and his thick black hair seemed to bristle up in his wrath . 
A pressman ! he growled . 
Then with a deprecating smile After all , it is natural that the whole world should hasten to know what I think of such an episode . 
That can hardly be his errand , said Summerlee , for he was on the road in his cab before ever the crisis came . 
I looked at the card James Baxter , London Correspondent , New York Monitor . 
You'll see him ? said I. Not I. Oh , George ! You should be kinder and more considerate to others . 
Surely you have learned something from what we have undergone . 
He tut tutted and shook his big , obstinate head . 
Come , sir , this is a stranger who has made a journey to see you . 
I am sure that you won't be rude to him . 
Well , well , he grumbled , you come with me and do the talking . 
I protest in advance against any such outrageous invasion of my private life . 
Muttering and mumbling , he came rolling after me like an angry and rather ill conditioned mastiff . 
The dapper young American pulled out his notebook and plunged instantly into his subject . 
I know of no danger which is now pressing upon the world , Challenger answered gruffly . 
The pressman looked at him in mild surprise . 
I meant , sir , the chances that the world might run into a belt of poisonous ether . 
I do not now apprehend any such danger , said Challenger . 
The pressman looked even more perplexed . 
You are Professor Challenger , are you not ? he asked . 
Yes , sir that is my name . 
I cannot understand , then , how you can say that there is no such danger . 
I am alluding to your own letter , published above your name in the London Times of this morning . 
It was Challenger's turn to look surprised . 
This morning ? said he . 
No London Times was published this morning . 
Surely , sir , said the American in mild remonstrance , you must admit that the London Times is a daily paper . 
He drew out a copy from his inside pocket . 
Here is the letter to which I refer . 
Challenger chuckled and rubbed his hands . 
I begin to understand , said he . 
So you read this letter this morning ? Yes , sir . 
And came at once to interview me ? Yes , sir . 
Did you observe anything unusual upon the journey down ? Well , to tell the truth , your people seemed more lively and generally human than I have ever seen them . 
The baggage man set out to tell me a funny story , and that's a new experience for me in this country . 
Nothing else ? Why , no , sir , not that I can recall . 
Well , now , what hour did you leave Victoria ? The American smiled . 
It happens to interest me . 
Do you recall the hour ? Sure . 
It was half past twelve . 
And you arrived ? At a quarter past two . 
And you hired a cab ? That was so . 
How far do you suppose it is to the station ? Well , I should reckon the best part of two miles . 
So how long do you think it took you ? Well , half an hour , maybe , with that asthmatic in front . 
So it should be three o'clock ? Yes , or a trifle after it . 
The American did so and then stared at us in astonishment . 
That horse has broken every record , sure . 
The sun is pretty low , now that I come to look at it . 
Well , there's something here I don't understand . 
Have you no remembrance of anything remarkable as you came up the hill ? Well , I seem to recollect that I was mighty sleepy once . 
It comes back to me that I wanted to say something to the driver and that I couldn't make him heed me . 
I guess it was the heat , but I felt swimmy for a moment . 
So it is with the whole human race , said Challenger to me . 
They have all felt swimmy for a moment . 
None of them have as yet any comprehension of what has occurred . 
Each will go on with his interrupted job as Austin has snatched up his hose pipe or the golfer continued his game . 
Your editor , Malone , will continue the issue of his papers , and very much amazed he will be at finding that an issue is missing . 
And right here , as my American colleague would say , I may bring this narrative to an end . 
Challenger and Summerlee have treated the matter in a joint scientific paper , but to me alone was left the popular account . 
Surely I can sing Nunc dimittis . 
What is left but anti climax in the life of a journalist after that ! But let me not end on sensational headlines and a merely personal triumph . 
It has been a well worn truism , said the Times , that our human race are a feeble folk before the infinite latent forces which surround us . 
From the prophets of old and from the philosophers of our own time the same message and warning have reached us . 
But , like all oft repeated truths , it has in time lost something of its actuality and cogency . 
A lesson , an actual experience , was needed to bring it home . 
The world has paid a fearful price for its schooling . 
But the material damage , enormous as it is both in life and in property , is not the consideration which will be uppermost in our minds to day . 
All this may in time be forgotten . 
Solemnity and humility are at the base of all our emotions to day . 
May they be the foundations upon which a more earnest and reverent race may build a more worthy temple . 
