Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE CAPTAIN OF THE POLESTAR AND OTHER TALES . 
A. CONAN DOYLE , M. D. CONTENTS . 
Being an extract from the singular journal of JOHN M ALISTER RAY , student of medicine . 
degrees E. Still lying to amid enormous ice fields . 
The one which stretches away to the north of us , and to which our ice anchor is attached , cannot be smaller than an English county . 
To the right and left unbroken sheets extend to the horizon . 
This morning the mate reported that there were signs of pack ice to the southward . 
Should this form of sufficient thickness to bar our return , we shall be in a position of danger , as the food , I hear , is already running somewhat short . 
It is late in the season , and the nights are beginning to reappear . 
This morning I saw a star twinkling just over the fore yard , the first since the beginning of May . 
I much doubt how he will receive it , as he is a man of fierce temper , and very sensitive about anything approaching to an infringement of his rights . 
I shall venture after dinner to say a few words to him upon the subject . 
I have always found that he will tolerate from me what he would resent from any other member of the crew . 
Amsterdam Island , at the north west corner of Spitzbergen , is visible upon our starboard quarter a rugged line of volcanic rocks , intersected by white seams , which represent glaciers . 
A captain takes a great responsibility upon himself when he risks his vessel under such circumstances . 
No whaler has ever remained in these latitudes till so advanced a period of the year . 
There was a depth of tenderness too in his wild dark eyes which surprised me considerably . 
It's hit or miss with me this time . 
There are fish to the north of us . 
Two and twenty fish in as many minutes as I am a living man , and not one under ten foot . 
I confess that I am sorry for you , though . 
Yes , I answered , snapping the spring of the locket which hung from my watch chain , and holding up the little vignette of Flora . 
Curse you ! he yelled , springing out of his seat , with his very beard bristling with passion . 
It is the first time that he has ever shown me anything but courtesy and kindness . 
I can hear him pacing excitedly up and down overhead as I write these lines . 
It may be that no human eye but my own shall ever rest upon these lines , yet as a psychological study I shall attempt to leave some record of Captain Nicholas Craigie . 
A man's outer case generally gives some indication of the soul within . 
His jaw and whole cast of countenance is manly and resolute , but the eyes are the distinctive feature of his face . 
This is one phase of his character , and the most disagreeable one . 
It is only through my close association with him , thrown together as we are day after day , that I have observed it . 
Otherwise he is an agreeable companion , well read and entertaining , and as gallant a seaman as ever trod a deck . 
I shall not easily forget the way in which he handled the ship when we were caught by a gale among the loose ice at the beginning of April . 
Some great sorrow must have overtaken him and blighted his whole life . 
There , I hear him come down the companion , and he has locked himself up in his room , which shows that he is still in an unamiable mood . 
, and the steward has turned in , so there are no hopes of another one . 
Calm , clear day , and still lying in the same position . 
What wind there is comes from the south east , but it is very slight . 
Captain is in a better humour , and apologised to me at breakfast for his rudeness . 
It is strange that superstition should have obtained such mastery over this hard headed and practical race . 
I could not have believed to what an extent it is carried had I not observed it for myself . 
We have had a perfect epidemic of it this voyage , until I have felt inclined to serve out rations of sedatives and nerve tonics with the Saturday allowance of grog . 
No doubt what they heard was either the creaking of the rudder chains , or the cry of some passing sea bird . 
I have been fetched out of bed several times to listen to it , but I need hardly say that I was never able to distinguish anything unnatural . 
The men , however , are so absurdly positive upon the subject that it is hopeless to argue with them . 
I mentioned the matter to the Captain once , but to my surprise he took it very gravely , and indeed appeared to be considerably disturbed by what I told him . 
I should have thought that he at least would have been above such vulgar delusions . 
It is quite refreshing to have some new topic of conversation after the eternal routine of bears and whales which has served us for so many months . 
Manson swears the ship is haunted , and that he would not stay in her a day if he had any other place to go to . 
Indeed the fellow is honestly frightened , and I had to give him some chloral and bromide of potassium this morning to steady him down . 
I was on the bridge , he said , about four bells in the middle watch , just when the night was at its darkest . 
There was a bit of a moon , but the clouds were blowing across it so that you couldn't see far from the ship . 
John M Leod , the harpooner , came aft from the foc'sle head and reported a strange noise on the starboard bow . 
I went forrard and we both heard it , sometimes like a bairn crying and sometimes like a wench in pain . 
I've been seventeen years to the country and I never heard seal , old or young , make a sound like that . 
We lost sight of it for a while , but it came back on the port bow , and we could just make it out like a shadow on the ice . 
I sent a hand aft for the rifles , and M Leod and I went down on to the pack , thinking that maybe it might be a bear . 
When we got on the ice I lost sight of M Leod , but I pushed on in the direction where I could still hear the cries . 
I followed them for a mile or maybe more , and then running round a hummock I came right on to the top of it standing and waiting for me seemingly . 
I don't know what it was . 
It wasn't a bear any way . 
It was tall and white and straight , and if it wasn't a man nor a woman , I'll stake my davy it was something worse . 
I made for the ship as hard as I could run , and precious glad I was to find myself aboard . 
I signed articles to do my duty by the ship , and on the ship I'll stay , but you don't catch me on the ice again after sundown . 
That is his story , given as far as I can in his own words . 
I fancy what he saw must , in spite of his denial , have been a young bear erect upon its hind legs , an attitude which they often assume when alarmed . 
In the uncertain light this would bear a resemblance to a human figure , especially to a man whose nerves were already somewhat shaken . 
Whatever it may have been , the occurrence is unfortunate , for it has produced a most unpleasant effect upon the crew . 
Their looks are more sullen than before , and their discontent more open . 
The double grievance of being debarred from the herring fishing and of being detained in what they choose to call a haunted vessel , may lead them to do something rash . 
Even the harpooners , who are the oldest and steadiest among them , are joining in the general agitation . 
Apart from this absurd outbreak of superstition , things are looking rather more cheerful . 
There are numerous small Medusse and sealemons about the ship , with abundance of shrimps , so that there is every possibility of fish being sighted . 
Indeed one was seen blowing about dinner time , but in such a position that it was impossible for the boats to follow it . 
Had an interesting conversation with the chief mate , Mr. Milne , upon the bridge . 
It seems that our Captain is as great an enigma to the seamen , and even to the owners of the vessel , as he has been to me . 
He has no friend in Dundee , nor does any one pretend to be acquainted with his early history . 
The unanimous opinion seems to be that he is not a Scotchman , and that his name is an assumed one . 
He mentioned several instances of this , one of which is rather curious , if true . 
It seems that on one occasion he did not put in an appearance at the office , and a substitute had to be selected in his place . 
That was at the time of the last Russian and Turkish war . 
When he turned up again next spring he had a puckered wound in the side of his neck which he used to endeavour to conceal with his cravat . 
Whether the mate's inference that he had been engaged in the war is true or not I cannot say . 
It was certainly a strange coincidence . 
The wind is veering round in an easterly direction , but is still very slight . 
I think the ice is lying closer than it did yesterday . 
As far as the eye can reach on every side there is one wide expanse of spotless white , only broken by an occasional rift or the dark shadow of a hummock . 
To the south there is the narrow lane of blue water which is our sole means of escape , and which is closing up every day . 
The Captain is taking a heavy responsibility upon himself . 
His manner is very variable , and he seems to avoid my society , but there has been no repetition of the violence which he showed the other night . 
P. M. My deliberate opinion is that we are commanded by a madman . 
Nothing else can account for the extraordinary vagaries of Captain Craigie . 
Curiously enough it was he himself who suggested lunacy and not mere eccentricity as the secret of his strange conduct . 
He was standing upon the bridge about an hour ago , peering as usual through his glass , while I was walking up and down the quarterdeck . 
The majority of the men were below at their tea , for the watches have not been regularly kept of late . 
Tired of walking , I leaned against the bulwarks , and admired the mellow glow cast by the sinking sun upon the great ice fields which surround us . 
He was staring out over the ice with an expression in which horror , surprise , and something approaching to joy were contending for the mastery . 
In spite of the cold , great drops of perspiration were coursing down his forehead , and he was evidently fearfully excited . 
His limbs twitched like those of a man upon the verge of an epileptic fit , and the lines about his mouth were drawn and hard . 
Clinging to the ratlines he endeavoured to climb up upon the top of the bulwarks as if in the hope of obtaining a last glance at the departing object . 
His strength was not equal to the attempt , however , and he staggered back against the saloon skylights , where he leaned panting and exhausted . 
He raised himself up upon his elbow , and looking round to see that we were alone , he beckoned to me to come and sit beside him . 
You saw it , didn't you ? he asked , still in the same subdued awesome tone so foreign to the nature of the man . 
No , I saw nothing . 
His head sank back again upon the cushions . 
No , he wouldn't without the glass , he murmured . 
It was the glass that showed her to me , and then the eyes of love the eyes of love . 
I say , Doc , don't let the steward in ! He'll think I'm mad . 
Just bolt the door , will you ! I rose and did what he had commanded . 
He lay quiet for a while , lost in thought apparently , and then raised himself up upon his elbow again , and asked for some more brandy . 
You don't think I am , do you , Doc ? he asked , as I was putting the bottle back into the after locker . 
Right there , lad ! he cried , his eyes sparkling from the effects of the brandy . 
Plenty on my mind plenty ! But I can work out the latitude and the longitude , and I can handle my sextant and manage my logarithms . 
Perhaps not , I said but still I think you would be wise to get home as soon as you can , and settle down to a quiet life for a while . 
Get home , eh ? he muttered , with a sneer upon his face . 
One word for me and two for yourself , lad . 
Settle down with Flora pretty little Flora . 
Are bad dreams signs of madness ? Sometimes , I answered . 
What else ? What would be the first symptoms ? Pains in the head , noises in the ears flashes before the eyes , delusions Ah ! what about them ? he interrupted . 
What would you call a delusion ? Seeing a thing which is not there is a delusion . 
But she WAS there ! he groaned to himself . 
His system seems to have received a terrible shock , whatever it may have been that he imagined himself to have seen . 
The man becomes a greater mystery every day , though I fear that the solution which he has himself suggested is the correct one , and that his reason is affected . 
I do not think that a guilty conscience has anything to do with his behaviour . 
The idea is a popular one among the officers , and , I believe , the crew but I have seen nothing to support it . 
The wind is veering round to the south to night . 
God help us , I say again ! September th . 
Sunday , and a day of rest . 
My fears have been confirmed , and the thin strip of blue water has disappeared from the southward . 
Nothing but the great motionless ice fields around us , with their weird hummocks and fantastic pinnacles . 
There is a deathly silence over their wide expanse which is horrible . 
Our only visitor was an Arctic fox , a rare animal upon the pack , though common enough upon the land . 
He did not come near the ship , however , but after surveying us from a distance fled rapidly across the ice . 
This was curious conduct , as they generally know nothing of man , and being of an inquisitive nature , become so familiar that they are easily captured . 
Incredible as it may seem , even this little incident produced a bad effect upon the crew . 
Yon puir beastie kens mair , ay , an' sees mair nor you nor me ! was the comment of one of the leading harpooners , and the others nodded their acquiescence . 
It is vain to attempt to argue against such puerile superstition . 
They have made up their minds that there is a curse upon the ship , and nothing will ever persuade them to the contrary . 
The Captain remained in seclusion all day except for about half an hour in the afternoon , when he came out upon the quarterdeck . 
I observed that he kept his eye fixed upon the spot where the vision of yesterday had appeared , and was quite prepared for another outburst , but none such came . 
He did not seem to see me although I was standing close beside him . 
Divine service was read as usual by the chief engineer . 
It is a curious thing that in whaling vessels the Church of England Prayer book is always employed , although there is never a member of that Church among either officers or crew . 
Our men are all Roman Catholics or Presbyterians , the former predominating . 
A glorious sunset , which made the great fields of ice look like a lake of blood . 
I have never seen a finer and at the same time more weird effect . 
If it will blow twenty four hours from the north all will yet be well . 
To day is Flora's birthday . 
No doubt she scans the shipping list in the Scotsman every morning to see if we are reported from Shetland . 
I have to set an example to the men and look cheery and unconcerned but God knows , my heart is very heavy at times . 
The thermometer is at nineteen Fahrenheit to day . 
There is but little wind , and what there is comes from an unfavourable quarter . 
It is even less than we had expected . 
Forward they have half a tank full of biscuits , three barrels of salt meat , and a very limited supply of coffee beans and sugar . 
In the after hold and lockers there are a good many luxuries , such as tinned salmon , soups , haricot mutton , c . 
, but they will go a very short way among a crew of fifty men . 
There are two barrels of flour in the store room , and an unlimited supply of tobacco . 
Altogether there is about enough to keep the men on half rations for eighteen or twenty days certainly not more . 
When we reported the state of things to the Captain , he ordered all hands to be piped , and addressed them from the quarterdeck . 
I never saw him to better advantage . 
You can leave your wives behind you in comfort while other poor fellows come back to find their lasses on the parish . 
If you have to thank me for the one you have to thank me for the other , and we may call it quits . 
We've tried a bold venture before this and succeeded , so now that we've tried one and failed we've no cause to cry out about it . 
If the worst comes to the worst , we can make the land across the ice , and lay in a stock of seals which will keep us alive until the spring . 
It won't come to that , though , for you'll see the Scotch coast again before three weeks are out . 
At present every man must go on half rations , share and share alike , and no favour to any . 
Keep up your hearts and you'll pull through this as you've pulled through many a danger before . 
These few simple words of his had a wonderful effect upon the crew . 
His former unpopularity was forgotten , and the old harpooner whom I have already mentioned for his superstition , led off three cheers , which were heartily joined in by all hands . 
The wind has veered round to the north during the night , and the ice shows some symptoms of opening out . 
The men are in a good humour in spite of the short allowance upon which they have been placed . 
Steam is kept up in the engine room , that there may be no delay should an opportunity for escape present itself . 
The Captain is in exuberant spirits , though he still retains that wild fey expression which I have already remarked upon . 
This burst of cheerfulness puzzles me more than his former gloom . 
It is a bare little room , containing a washing stand and a few books , but little else in the way of luxury , except some pictures upon the walls . 
The majority of these are small cheap oleographs , but there was one water colour sketch of the head of a young lady which arrested my attention . 
It was evidently a portrait , and not one of those fancy types of female beauty which sailors particularly affect . 
No artist could have evolved from his own mind such a curious mixture of character and weakness . 
Underneath it in one of the corners was written , M. B. , aet . 
She must have been an extraordinary woman . 
I wonder what part she has played in our Captain's life . 
He has hung her picture at the end of his berth , so that his eyes continually rest upon it . 
Were he a less reserved man I should make some remark upon the subject . 
P. M. Captain just gone to bed after a long and interesting conversation on general topics . 
When he chooses he can be a most fascinating companion , being remarkably well read , and having the power of expressing his opinion forcibly without appearing to be dogmatic . 
I hate to have my intellectual toes trod upon . 
He spoke about the nature of the soul , and sketched out the views of Aristotle and Plato upon the subject in a masterly manner . 
He seems to have a leaning for metempsychosis and the doctrines of Pythagoras . 
He shortly afterwards bade me good night and retired to his room . 
The wind is freshening up , and blows steadily from the north . 
The nights are as dark now as they are in England . 
I hope to morrow may set us free from our frozen fetters . 
I spoke to Milne after breakfast , and told him that he should be above such nonsense , and that as an officer he ought to set the men a better example . 
He shook his weatherbeaten head ominously , but answered with characteristic caution , Mebbe aye , mebbe na , Doctor , he said I didna ca' it a ghaist . 
I canna' say I preen my faith in sea bogles an' the like , though there's a mony as claims to ha' seen a' that and waur . 
Ye would na' be sae ready to put it a' doon to auld wives' clavers then , I'm thinkin' . 
As I had hoped , the white desert behind us has become broken by many thin streaks of water which intersect it in all directions . 
Our latitude to day was degrees N. , which shows that there is a strong southerly drift upon the pack . 
Should the wind continue favourable it will break up as rapidly as it formed . 
At present we can do nothing but smoke and wait and hope for the best . 
I am rapidly becoming a fatalist . 
When dealing with such uncertain factors as wind and ice a man can be nothing else . 
Perhaps it was the wind and sand of the Arabian deserts which gave the minds of the original followers of Mahomet their tendency to bow to kismet . 
These spectral alarms have a very bad effect upon the Captain . 
As I had expected , it brought out all his latent lunacy in an exaggerated form . 
I can hardly believe that this is the same man who discoursed philosophy last night with the most critical acumen and coolest judgment . 
The ice is still opening rapidly , and there is every probability of our being able to make a start to morrow morning . 
They will think I am inventing when I tell them at home all the strange things that have befallen me . 
P. M. I have been a good deal startled , though I feel steadier now , thanks to a stiff glass of brandy . 
I am hardly myself yet , however , as this handwriting will testify . 
After all it was nothing very alarming a mere sound , and that was all . 
Supper was over , and I had gone on deck to have a quiet pipe before turning in . 
The night was very dark so dark that , standing under the quarter boat , I was unable to see the officer upon the bridge . 
I think I have already mentioned the extraordinary silence which prevails in these frozen seas . 
One may not actively perceive the sound , and yet if it were withdrawn it would be missed . 
It is only here in these Arctic seas that stark , unfathomable stillness obtrudes itself upon you in all its gruesome reality . 
You find your tympanum straining to catch some little murmur , and dwelling eagerly upon every accidental sound within the vessel . 
The ghastly scream is still ringing in my ears . 
Grief , unutterable grief , seemed to be expressed in it , and a great longing , and yet through it all there was an occasional wild note of exultation . 
It shrilled out from close beside me , and yet as I glared into the darkness I could discern nothing . 
I waited some little time , but without hearing any repetition of the sound , so I came below , more shaken than I have ever been in my life before . 
As I came down the companion I met Mr. Milne coming up to relieve the watch . 
Perhaps to morrow things may look different . 
At present I dare hardly write all that I think . 
Reading it again in days to come , when I have shaken off all these associations , I should despise myself for having been so weak . 
Passed a restless and uneasy night , still haunted by that strange sound . 
The Captain does not look as if he had had much repose either , for his face is haggard and his eyes bloodshot . 
We were then brought to a halt by a great floe as massive as any which we have left behind us . 
Several bladder nosed seals were seen swimming in the water , and one was shot , an immense creature more than eleven feet long . 
They are fierce , pugnacious animals , and are said to be more than a match for a bear . 
Fortunately they are slow and clumsy in their movements , so that there is little danger in attacking them upon the ice . 
I suppose you think it's all right now , Doctor ? he said , as we sat together after dinner . 
I hope so , I answered . 
We mustn't be too sure and yet no doubt you are right . 
We'll all be in the arms of our own true loves before long , lad , won't we ? But we mustn't be too sure we mustn't be too sure . 
He sat silent a little , swinging his leg thoughtfully backwards and forwards . 
Look here , he continued it's a dangerous place this , even at its best a treacherous , dangerous place . 
I have known men cut off very suddenly in a land like this . 
He feels better for knowing it's all settled , he went on . 
Now if anything should ever befall me , I hope that you will look after things for me . 
The chronometer I wish you to keep yourself as some slight remembrance of our voyage . 
Of course all this is a mere precaution , but I thought I would take the opportunity of speaking to you about it . 
Go up on deck and get some fresh air into your lungs instead of talking nonsense in the cabin , and encouraging me to do the same . 
The more I think of this conversation of ours the less do I like it . 
Why should the man be settling his affairs at the very time when we seem to be emerging from all danger ? There must be some method in his madness . 
Can it be that he contemplates suicide ? I remember that upon one occasion he spoke in a deeply reverent manner of the heinousness of the crime of self destruction . 
Mr. Milne pooh poohs my fears , and says it is only the skipper's little way . 
He himself takes a very rosy view of the situation . 
I hope he may not be too sanguine . 
His opinion may be fairly balanced against the gloomy precautions of the Captain , for he is an old and experienced seaman , and weighs his words well before uttering them . 
The long impending catastrophe has come at last . 
I hardly know what to write about it . 
He may come back to us again alive , but I fear me I fear me . 
It is now seven o'clock of the morning of the th of September . 
I shall try to give some account of the circumstances which attended upon his disappearance . 
My inferences are my own , but I shall be answerable for the facts . 
The Captain remained in excellent spirits after the conversation which I have recorded . 
He appeared to be nervous and impatient , however , frequently changing his position , and moving his limbs in an aimless choreic way which is characteristic of him at times . 
In a quarter of an hour he went upon deck seven times , only to descend after a few hurried paces . 
I followed him each time , for there was something about his face which confirmed my resolution of not letting him out of my sight . 
After supper he went on to the poop once more , and I with him . 
The night was dark and very still , save for the melancholy soughing of the wind among the spars . 
A tryst with whom ? Some vague perception began to dawn upon me as I pieced one fact with another , but I was utterly unprepared for the sequel . 
By the sudden intensity of his attitude I felt that he saw something . 
I crept up behind him . 
He was staring with an eager questioning gaze at what seemed to be a wreath of mist , blown swiftly in a line with the ship . 
It was a dim , nebulous body , devoid of shape , sometimes more , sometimes less apparent , as the light fell on it . 
The moon was dimmed in its brilliancy at the moment by a canopy of thinnest cloud , like the coating of an anemone . 
What followed happened in an instant . 
I had no power to interfere . 
He gave one spring to the top of the bulwarks , and another which took him on to the ice , almost to the feet of the pale misty figure . 
He held out his hands as if to clasp it , and so ran into the darkness with outstretched arms and loving words . 
I still stood rigid and motionless , straining my eyes after his retreating form , until his voice died away in the distance . 
I never thought to see him again , but at that moment the moon shone out brilliantly through a chink in the cloudy heaven , and illuminated the great field of ice . 
Then I saw his dark figure already a very long way off , running with prodigious speed across the frozen plain . 
That was the last glimpse which we caught of him perhaps the last we ever shall . 
A party was organised to follow him , and I accompanied them , but the men's hearts were not in the work , and nothing was found . 
Another will be formed within a few hours . 
I can hardly believe I have not been dreaming , or suffering from some hideous nightmare , as I write these things down . 
P. M. Just returned dead beat and utterly tired out from a second unsuccessful search for the Captain . 
The floe is of enormous extent , for though we have traversed at least twenty miles of its surface , there has been no sign of its coming to an end . 
The frost has been so severe of late that the overlying snow is frozen as hard as granite , otherwise we might have had the footsteps to guide us . 
They argue that Captain Craigie is certainly dead , and that we are all risking our lives to no purpose by remaining when we have an opportunity of escape . 
We propose therefore to take a few hours' sleep , and then to start upon a final search . 
I crossed the ice this morning with a party of men exploring the southern part of the floe , while Mr. Milne went off in a northerly direction . 
The southern extremity of the ice field tapered away into a long narrow spit which projected out into the sea . 
We had hardly gone a hundred yards before M Donald of Peterhead cried out that he saw something in front of us , and began to run . 
We all got a glimpse of it and ran too . 
He was lying face downwards upon a frozen bank . 
Many little crystals of ice and feathers of snow had drifted on to him as he lay , and sparkled upon his dark seaman's jacket . 
I have learned never to ridicule any man's opinion , however strange it may seem . 
We buried him the same afternoon with the ship's ensign around him , and a thirty two pound shot at his feet . 
Then even that faded away , and he was gone . 
I pray that his lot may be a happier one in that life than it has been in this . 
I shall not continue my journal . 
Our road to home lies plain and clear before us , and the great ice field will soon be but a remembrance of the past . 
It will be some time before I get over the shock produced by recent events . 
When I began this record of our voyage I little thought of how I should be compelled to finish it . 
I am writing these final words in the lonely cabin , still starting at times and fancying I hear the quick nervous step of the dead man upon the deck above me . 
I entered his cabin to night , as was my duty , to make a list of his effects in order that they might be entered in the official log . 
With this last link in a strange chain of evidence I close my diary of the voyage of the Pole Star . 
John M'Alister Ray , senior . 
I have read over the strange events connected with the death of the Captain of the Pole Star , as narrated in the journal of my son . 
Still , the story is , on the face of it , so vague and so improbable , that I was long opposed to its publication . 
Within the last few days , however , I have had independent testimony upon the subject which throws a new light upon it . 
I had run down to Edinburgh to attend a meeting of the British Medical Association , when I chanced to come across Dr . 
P , an old college chum of mine , now practising at Saltash , in Devonshire . 
According to his account , he had been engaged to a young lady of singular beauty residing upon the Cornish coast . 
During his absence at sea his betrothed had died under circumstances of peculiar horror . 
What these circumstances were was summed up in an able article which appeared in the Gibraltar Gazette . 
The curious can find it in the issue for January , , unless my memory deceives me . 
They are of opinion that she had been abandoned several days , or perhaps weeks , before being picked up . 
The official log , which was found in the cabin , states that the vessel sailed from Boston to Lisbon , starting upon October . 
It is , however , most imperfectly kept , and affords little information . 
There is no reference to rough weather , and , indeed , the state of the vessel's paint and rigging excludes the idea that she was abandoned for any such reason . 
No signs of a struggle or of violence are to be detected , and there is absolutely nothing to account for the disappearance of the crew . 
There are several indications that a lady was present on board , a sewing machine being found in the cabin and some articles of female attire . 
These probably belonged to the captain's wife , who is mentioned in the log as having accompanied her husband . 
The boats were intact and slung upon the davits and the cargo , consisting of tallow and American clocks , was untouched . 
It has been placed in the hands of the police , and submitted to Dr . 
Monaghan , the analyst , for inspection . 
The result of his examination has not yet been published . 
He confesses his inability , however , to advance any hypothesis which can reconcile all the facts of the case . 
If crime has been committed , as is much to be suspected , there is little hope of bringing the perpetrators to justice . 
She was , it said , a brigantine of tons burden , and belonged to White , Russell White , wine importers , of this city . 
Captain J. W. Tibbs was an old servant of the firm , and was a man of known ability and tried probity . 
He was accompanied by his wife , aged thirty one , and their youngest child , five years old . 
The crew consisted of seven hands , including two coloured seamen , and a boy . 
There were three passengers , one of whom was the well known Brooklyn specialist on consumption , Dr . 
The other passengers were Mr. J. Harton , a writer in the employ of the firm , and Mr. Septimius Goring , a half caste gentleman , from New Orleans . 
All investigations have failed to throw any light upon the fate of these fourteen human beings . 
Jephson will be felt both in political and scientific circles . 
I have now taken up my pen with the intention of telling all that I know of the ill fated voyage . 
Many will doubtless wonder why I have not proclaimed myself before , and why I have suffered so many conjectures and surmises to pass unchallenged . 
Could the ends of justice have been served in any way by my revealing the facts in my possession I should unhesitatingly have done so . 
In order to make my narrative intelligible , I must run lightly over one or two incidents in my former life which throw light upon subsequent events . 
My father , William K. Jephson , was a preacher of the sect called Plymouth Brethren , and was one of the most respected citizens of Lowell . 
When the war broke out I left Brooklyn and accompanied the th New York Regiment through the campaign . 
I was present at the second battle of Bull's Run and at the battle of Gettysburg . 
Thanks to his charity , and to the nursing which I received from his black domestics , I was soon able to get about the plantation with the help of a stick . 
It was during this period of convalescence that an incident occurred which is closely connected with my story . 
Among the most assiduous of the negresses who had watched my couch during my illness there was one old crone who appeared to exert considerable authority over the others . 
Massa , she said , bending down and croaking the words into my ear , me die soon . 
Not stay long on Massa Murray's plantation . 
You may live a long time yet , Martha , I answered . 
You know I am a doctor . 
If you feel ill let me know about it , and I will try to cure you . 
No wish to live wish to die . 
I'm gwine to join the heavenly host . 
Here she relapsed into one of those half heathenish rhapsodies in which negroes indulge . 
But , massa , me have one thing must leave behind me when I go . 
No able to take it with me across the Jordan . 
That one thing very precious , more precious and more holy than all thing else in the world . 
Me , a poor old black woman , have this because my people , very great people , 'spose they was back in the old country . 
But you cannot understand this same as black folk could . 
My fader give it me , and his fader give it him , but now who shall I give it to ? Poor Martha hab no child , no relation , nobody . 
All round I see black man very bad man . 
Black woman very stupid woman . 
Nobody worthy of the stone . 
Here the old woman fumbled in the chamois leather bag and pulled out a flattish black stone with a hole through the middle of it . 
Here , take it , she said , pressing it into my hand take it . 
No harm nebber come from anything good . 
I was more amused than impressed by the old woman's earnestness , and was only prevented from laughing during her oration by the fear of hurting her feelings . 
When she was gone I took a good look at the stone which she had given me . 
It was about three inches long , and an inch and a half broad at the middle , but rounded off at the extremities . 
The most curious part about it were several well marked ridges which ran in semicircles over its surface , and gave it exactly the appearance of a human ear . 
In the meantime I thrust it into my pocket , and rising from my chair started off for a short stroll in the shrubbery , dismissing the incident from my mind . 
As my wound had nearly healed by this time , I took my leave of Mr. Murray shortly afterwards . 
The Union armies were everywhere victorious and converging on Richmond , so that my assistance seemed unnecessary , and I returned to Brooklyn . 
There I resumed my practice , and married the second daughter of Josiah Vanburger , the well known wood engraver . 
In the course of a few years I built up a good connection and acquired considerable reputation in the treatment of pulmonary complaints . 
I still kept the old black stone in my pocket , and frequently told the story of the dramatic way in which I had become possessed of it . 
I also kept my resolution of showing it to Professor Shroeder , who was much interested both by the anecdote and the specimen . 
A dozen little anatomical points showed that the worker had been as accurate as he was skilful . 
If there is a statue to correspond I should like to see it ! So I thought at the time , but I have changed my opinion since . 
The next seven or eight years of my life were quiet and uneventful . 
Summer followed spring , and spring followed winter , without any variation in my duties . 
As the practice increased I admitted J. S. Jackson as partner , he to have one fourth of the profits . 
The continued strain had told upon my constitution , however , and I became at last so unwell that my wife insisted upon my consulting Dr . 
Kavanagh Smith , who was my colleague at the Samaritan Hospital . 
She is a snug little ship , he said , and Tibbs , the captain , is an excellent fellow . 
There is nothing like a sailing ship for an invalid . 
I was very much of the same opinion myself , so I closed with the offer on the spot . 
My original plan was that my wife should accompany me on my travels . 
I arrived in Boston on October , , and proceeded immediately to the office of the firm in order to thank them for their courtesy . 
As I was sitting in the counting house waiting until they should be at liberty to see me , the words Marie Celeste suddenly attracted my attention . 
I looked round and saw a very tall , gaunt man , who was leaning across the polished mahogany counter asking some questions of the clerk at the other side . 
His curved aquiline nose and straight lank hair showed the white strain but the dark restless eye , sensuous mouth , and gleaming teeth all told of his African origin . 
His complexion was of a sickly , unhealthy yellow , and as his face was deeply pitted with small pox , the general impression was so unfavourable as to be almost revolting . 
When he spoke , however , it was in a soft , melodious voice , and in well chosen words , and he was evidently a man of some education . 
I wished to ask a few questions about the Marie Celeste , he repeated , leaning across to the clerk . 
Where is she bound for ? Lisbon . 
How many of a crew ? Seven , sir . 
Passengers ? Yes , two . 
One of our young gentlemen , and a doctor from New York . 
No gentleman from the South ? asked the stranger eagerly . 
No , none , sir . 
Is there room for another passenger ? Accommodation for three more , answered the clerk . 
I'll go , said the quadroon decisively I'll go , I'll engage my passage at once . 
Put it down , will you Mr. Septimius Goring , of New Orleans . 
The clerk filled up a form and handed it over to the stranger , pointing to a blank space at the bottom . 
I went down to the Marie Celeste that evening , and looked over my berth , which was extremely comfortable considering the small size of the vessel . 
Mr. Goring , whom I had seen in the morning , was to have the one next mine . 
Opposite was the captain's cabin and a small berth for Mr. John Harton , a gentleman who was going out in the interests of the firm . 
These little rooms were arranged on each side of the passage which led from the main deck to the saloon . 
The latter was a comfortable room , the panelling tastefully done in oak and mahogany , with a rich Brussels carpet and luxurious settees . 
He told me that he intended to take his wife and youngest child with him on the voyage , and that he hoped with good luck to make Lisbon in three weeks . 
I went back to my hotel , where I found a letter from my wife awaiting me , and , after a refreshing night's sleep , returned to the boat in the morning . 
From this point I am able to quote from the journal which I kept in order to vary the monotony of the long sea voyage . 
If it is somewhat bald in places I can at least rely upon its accuracy in details , as it was written conscientiously from day to day . 
I stood upon the poop watching the low land of America sinking gradually upon the horizon until the evening haze hid it from my sight . 
The missing men were steady , reliable fellows , who had been with him several voyages , and their non appearance puzzled as well as irritated him . 
Our cook is also a black man , and Mr. Septimius Goring has a little darkie servant , so that we are rather a piebald community . 
The accountant , John Harton , promises to be an acquisition , for he is a cheery , amusing young fellow . 
How poorly do we both contrast with the careless , penniless clerk ! October . 
Mrs. Tibbs appeared upon deck for the first time this morning a cheerful , energetic woman , with a dear little child just able to walk and prattle . 
Young Harton pounced on it at once , and carried it away to his cabin , where no doubt he will lay the seeds of future dyspepsia in the child's stomach . 
Thus medicine doth make cynics of us all ! The weather is still all that could be desired , with a fine fresh breeze from the west sou' west . 
There we found Goring , rather to the Captain's surprise , as it is not usual for passengers to enter that sanctum unless specially invited . 
Goring pointed to the chronometers , the case of which he had opened , and remarked that he had been admiring them . 
He had a discussion with the Captain too upon the variation of the compass , and when we came back to the ocean currents he showed a thorough grasp of the subject . 
Altogether he rather improves upon acquaintance , and is a man of decided culture and refinement . 
His voice harmonises with his conversation , and both are the very antithesis of his face and figure . 
The noonday observation shows that we have run two hundred and twenty miles . 
Towards evening the breeze freshened up , and the first mate ordered reefs to be taken in the topsails and top gallant sails in expectation of a windy night . 
I observe that the barometer has fallen to twenty nine . 
Played cribbage with Mrs. Tibbs after supper , and Harton gave us a couple of tunes on the violin . 
The air is colder than it was yesterday , and I have put on one of the thick woollen jerseys which my wife knitted for me . 
Harton came into my cabin in the morning , and we had a cigar together . 
He says that he remembers having seen Goring in Cleveland , Ohio , in . 
He was , it appears , a mystery then as now , wandering about without any visible employment , and extremely reticent on his own affairs . 
The man interests me as a psychological study . 
Curiously enough , Harton says that he had a very similar experience yesterday upon deck . 
His little page is devoted to him , apparently , which speaks well for his treatment of him . 
Altogether , the man is a curious mixture of incongruous qualities , and unless I am deceived in him will give me food for observation during the voyage . 
The Captain is grumbling about his chronometers , which do not register exactly the same time . 
He says it is the first time that they have ever disagreed . 
We were unable to get a noonday observation on account of the haze . 
By dead reckoning , we have done about a hundred and seventy miles in the twenty four hours . 
These details are trivial enough , but a small thing serves as food for gossip aboard ship . 
The appearance of a whale in the evening caused quite a flutter among us . 
From its sharp back and forked tail , I should pronounce it to have been a rorqual , or finner , as they are called by the fishermen . 
Wind was cold , so I prudently remained in my cabin all day , only creeping out for dinner . 
Lying in my bunk I can , without moving , reach my books , pipes , or anything else I may want , which is one advantage of a small apartment . 
My old wound began to ache a little to day , probably from the cold . 
Read Montaigne's Essays and nursed myself . 
Harton came in in the afternoon with Doddy , the Captain's child , and the skipper himself followed , so that I held quite a reception . 
Still cold , with a continual drizzle of rain , and I have not been able to leave the cabin . 
This confinement makes me feel weak and depressed . 
He then got up and stole out of the cabin without saying anything . 
I am beginning to suspect that the man is a lunatic . 
I think I mentioned that his cabin is next to mine . 
Without any wish to play the spy , I see him continually stooping over what appears to be a chart and working with a pencil and compasses . 
I have remarked the interest he displays in matters connected with navigation , but I am surprised that he should take the trouble to work out the course of the ship . 
However , it is a harmless amusement enough , and no doubt he verifies his results by those of the Captain . 
I wish the man did not run in my thoughts so much . 
Even when I woke up , I could hardly persuade myself that I was not in a coffin . 
A fine day , with hardly a cloud in the sky , and a fresh breeze from the sou' west which wafts us gaily on our way . 
There has evidently been some heavy weather near us , as there is a tremendous swell on , and the ship lurches until the end of the fore yard nearly touches the water . 
Had a refreshing walk up and down the quarter deck , though I have hardly found my sea legs yet . 
Several small birds chaffinches , I think perched in the rigging . 
Goring was cleaning a revolver , it seems , in his cabin , when one of the barrels which he thought was unloaded went off . 
The ball passed through the side partition and imbedded itself in the bulwarks in the exact place where my head usually rests . 
I have been under fire too often to magnify trifles , but there is no doubt that if I had been in the bunk it must have killed me . 
Goring , poor fellow , did not know that I had gone on deck that day , and must therefore have felt terribly frightened . 
Of course , he was profuse in his apologies , though I simply laughed at the incident . 
P. M. A misfortune has occurred so unexpected and so horrible that my little escape of the morning dwindles into insignificance . 
Mrs. Tibbs and her child have disappeared utterly and entirely disappeared . 
I can hardly compose myself to write the sad details . 
About half past eight Tibbs rushed into my cabin with a very white face and asked me if I had seen his wife . 
I answered that I had not . 
He then ran wildly into the saloon and began groping about for any trace of her , while I followed him , endeavouring vainly to persuade him that his fears were ridiculous . 
We hunted over the ship for an hour and a half without coming on any sign of the missing woman or child . 
Poor Tibbs lost his voice completely from calling her name . 
The last time she was seen was about seven o'clock , when she took Doddy on to the poop to give him a breath of fresh air before putting him to bed . 
There was no one there at the time except the black seaman at the wheel , who denies having seen her at all . 
The whole affair is wrapped in mystery . 
I cannot account for the double disappearance in any other way . 
Whatever the truth may be it is a terrible catastrophe , and has cast the darkest gloom upon our voyage . 
The mate has put the ship about , but of course there is not the slightest hope of picking them up . 
The Captain is lying in a state of stupor in his cabin . 
I gave him a powerful dose of opium in his coffee that for a few hours at least his anguish may be deadened . 
Woke with a vague feeling of heaviness and misfortune , but it was not until a few moments' reflection that I was able to recall our loss of the night before . 
When I came on deck I saw the poor skipper standing gazing back at the waste of waters behind us which contains everything dear to him upon earth . 
I attempted to speak to him , but he turned brusquely away , and began pacing the deck with his head sunk upon his breast . 
Even now , when the truth is so clear , he cannot pass a boat or an unbent sail without peering under it . 
He looks ten years older than he did yesterday morning . 
Harton is terribly cut up , for he was fond of little Doddy , and Goring seems sorry too . 
I fear we are about as dismal a crew as ever sailed . 
Is the ship accursed ? Was there ever a voyage which began so fairly and which changed so disastrously ? Tibbs shot himself through the head during the night . 
Quickly as I went , Goring went more quickly still , for he was already in the cabin stooping over the dead body of the Captain . 
It was a hideous sight , for the whole front of his face was blown in , and the little room was swimming in blood . 
The pistol was lying beside him on the floor , just as it had dropped from his hand . 
He had evidently put it to his mouth before pulling the trigger . 
Goring and I picked him reverently up and laid him on his bed . 
The crew had all clustered into his cabin , and the six white men were deeply grieved , for they were old hands who had sailed with him many years . 
There were dark looks and murmurs among them too , and one of them openly declared that the ship was haunted . 
Harton helped to lay the poor skipper out , and we did him up in canvas between us . 
At twelve o'clock the foreyard was hauled aback , and we committed his body to the deep , Goring reading the Church of England burial service . 
The breeze has freshened up , and we have done ten knots all day and sometimes twelve . 
The sooner we reach Lisbon and get away from this accursed ship the better pleased shall I be . 
I feel as though we were in a floating coffin . 
Little wonder that the poor sailors are superstitious when I , an educated man , feel it so strongly . 
Made a good run all day . 
Goring , Harton , and I had a chat together on deck in the morning . 
Harton tried to draw Goring out as to his profession , and his object in going to Europe , but the quadroon parried all his questions and gave us no information . 
Indeed , he seemed to be slightly offended by Harton's pertinacity , and went down into his cabin . 
I wonder why we should both take such an interest in this man ! I suppose it is his striking appearance , coupled with his apparent wealth , which piques our curiosity . 
I think the supposition is rather a far fetched one , but Harton bases it upon a book which Goring left on deck , and which he picked up and glanced over . 
It was a sort of scrap book it seems , and contained a large number of newspaper cuttings . 
All these cuttings related to murders which had been committed at various times in the States during the last twenty years or so . 
The curious thing which Harton observed about them , however , was that they were invariably murders the authors of which had never been brought to justice . 
In any case it is no business of ours . 
Wind still fair , and we are making good progress . 
Were it not for Mrs. Tibbs's sewing machine upon a side table we might forget that the unfortunate family had ever existed . 
Another accident occurred on board to day , though fortunately not a very serious one . 
He saved his life by springing out of the way , but one of his feet was terribly crushed , and he will be of little use for the remainder of the voyage . 
He attributes the accident to the carelessness of his negro companion , who had helped him to shift the hatches . 
The latter , however , puts it down to the roll of the ship . 
Whatever be the cause , it reduces our shorthanded crew still further . 
This run of ill luck seems to be depressing Harton , for he has lost his usual good spirits and joviality . 
Goring is the only one who preserves his cheerfulness . 
I see him still working at his chart in his own cabin . 
His nautical knowledge would be useful should anything happen to Hyson which God forbid ! October , . 
Still bowling along with a fresh breeze . 
All quiet and nothing of note to chronicle . 
My weak lungs , combined with the exciting episodes of the voyage , have shaken my nervous system so much that the most trivial incident affects me . 
I can hardly believe that I am the same man who tied the external iliac artery , an operation requiring the nicest precision , under a heavy rifle fire at Antietam . 
I am as nervous as a child . 
I was lying half dozing last night about four bells in the middle watch trying in vain to drop into a refreshing sleep . 
There was no light inside my cabin , but a single ray of moonlight streamed in through the port hole , throwing a silvery flickering circle upon the door . 
I lay quietly and breathlessly watching it . 
The door swung cautiously backwards , and Goring's head followed his hand . 
It appeared in the centre of the moonlight , and was framed as it were in a ghastly uncertain halo , against which his features showed out plainly . 
It seemed to me that I had never seen such an utterly fiendish and merciless expression upon a human face . 
The sudden and noiseless apparition had such an effect upon me that I sprang up in bed trembling in every limb , and held out my hand towards my revolver . 
I was heartily ashamed of my hastiness when he explained the object of his intrusion , as he immediately did in the most courteous language . 
He had been suffering from toothache , poor fellow ! and had come in to beg some laudanum , knowing that I possessed a medicine chest . 
I gave him twenty drops , and he went off again with many expressions of gratitude . 
I can hardly say how much this trivial incident affected me . 
I have felt unstrung all day . 
A week's record of our voyage is here omitted , as nothing eventful occurred during the time , and my log consists merely of a few pages of unimportant gossip . 
Harton and I sat on the poop all the morning , for the weather is becoming very warm as we come into southern latitudes . 
We reckon that we have done two thirds of our voyage . 
For some reason or other he appeared to be powerfully excited , though he was evidently trying to control himself and to conceal his emotion . 
I told him the story very much as I had told it to Harton . 
He listened with the deepest interest , and then asked me if I had any idea what the stone was . 
I said I had not , beyond that it was meteoric . 
He asked me if I had ever tried its effect upon a negro . 
I said I had not . 
Come , said he , we'll see what our black friend at the wheel thinks of it . 
He took the stone in his hand and went across to the sailor , and the two examined it carefully . 
I could see the man gesticulating and nodding his head excitedly as if making some assertion , while his face betrayed the utmost astonishment , mixed I think with some reverence . 
Goring came across the deck to us presently , still holding the stone in his hand . 
Finding himself secured Goring dropped the stone and turned away with a very bad grace to avoid my angry remonstrances at his breach of faith . 
The black picked up the stone and handed it to me with a low bow and every sign of profound respect . 
The whole affair is inexplicable . 
I am rapidly coming to the conclusion that Goring is a maniac or something very near one . 
I must not trust it in Goring's hands again . 
What splendid weather we are having ! Beyond one little blow , we have had nothing but fresh breezes the whole voyage . 
These two days we have made better runs than any hitherto . 
It is a pretty thing to watch the spray fly up from our prow as it cuts through the waves . 
The sun shines through it and breaks it up into a number of miniature rainbows sun dogs , the sailors call them . 
I stood on the fo'csle head for several hours to day watching the effect , and surrounded by a halo of prismatic colours . 
The steersman has evidently told the other blacks about my wonderful stone , for I am treated by them all with the greatest respect . 
Talking about optical phenomena , we had a curious one yesterday evening which was pointed out to me by Hyson . 
This was the appearance of a triangular well defined object high up in the heavens to the north of us . 
It may have been a cloud , or it may have been one of those strange reflections of which one reads . 
The weather is very warm . 
The mate says that he never knew it so warm in these latitudes . 
Played chess with Harton in the evening . 
It is getting warmer and warmer . 
Some land birds came and perched in the rigging today , though we are still a considerable way from our destination . 
The heat is so great that we are too lazy to do anything but lounge about the decks and smoke . 
I had no idea Portugal was ever as hot as this , but no doubt it is cooler on land . 
Hyson himself seemed surprised at it , and so do the men . 
A most extraordinary event has happened , so extraordinary as to be almost inexplicable . 
Either Hyson has blundered wonderfully , or some magnetic influence has disturbed our instruments . 
Just about daybreak the watch on the fo'csle head shouted out that he heard the sound of surf ahead , and Hyson thought he saw the loom of land . 
The ship was put about , and , though no lights were seen , none of us doubted that we had struck the Portuguese coast a little sooner than we had expected . 
Harton and I , who had come on deck together , looked at each other in astonishment , and Harton burst out laughing . 
Hyson is exceedingly mortified at the occurrence , and protests that the instruments have been tampered with . 
There is no doubt that this is the mainland of Africa , and that it was really the Peak of Teneriffe which we saw some days ago upon the northern horizon . 
At the time when we saw the land birds we must have been passing some of the Canary Islands . 
If we continued on the same course , we are now to the north of Cape Blanco , near the unexplored country which skirts the great Sahara . 
All we can do is to rectify our instruments as far as possible and start afresh for our destination . 
P. M. Have been lying in a calm all day . 
The coast is now about a mile and a half from us . 
Hyson has examined the instruments , but cannot find any reason for their extraordinary deviation . 
This is the end of my private journal , and I must make the remainder of my statement from memory . 
There is little chance of my being mistaken about facts which have seared themselves into my recollection . 
That very night the storm which had been brewing so long burst over us , and I came to learn whither all those little incidents were tending which I had recorded so aimlessly . 
Blind fool that I was not to have seen it sooner ! I shall tell what occurred as precisely as I can . 
I had gone into my cabin about half past eleven , and was preparing to go to bed , when a tap came at my door . 
On opening it I saw Goring's little black page , who told me that his master would like to have a word with me on deck . 
I was rather surprised that he should want me at such a late hour , but I went up without hesitation . 
I had hardly put my foot on the quarter deck before I was seized from behind , dragged down upon my back , and a handkerchief slipped round my mouth . 
Another man was crouching on the deck at my feet , but he was in the shadow and I could not recognise him . 
All this occurred so rapidly that a minute could hardly have elapsed from the time I mounted the companion until I found myself gagged and powerless . 
It was so sudden that I could scarce bring myself to realise it , or to comprehend what it all meant . 
I heard the gang round me speaking in short , fierce whispers to each other , and some instinct told me that my life was the question at issue . 
Goring spoke authoritatively and angrily the others doggedly and all together , as if disputing his commands . 
Oh ! that I could have given them one word of warning , even though I had lost my life in doing it I but it was impossible . 
The moon was shining fitfully through the scattered clouds , and I could see the silvery gleam of the surge , and beyond it the vast weird desert with its fantastic sand hills . 
The clue which explained every event of our voyage came upon me like a flash of light as I gazed on poor Harton's corpse . 
Much was dark and unexplained , but I felt a great dim perception of the truth . 
Again he lowered the lantern , and again it was answered from the shore . 
It was a vain hope . 
The night was calm and the ship motionless , so that no idea of duty kept them vigilant . 
Powerless , speechless , with the cords cutting into my flesh and the murdered man at my feet , I awaited the next act in the tragedy . 
The four ruffians were standing up now at the other side of the deck . 
The cook was armed with some sort of a cleaver , the others had knives , and Goring had a revolver . 
They were all leaning against the rail and looking out over the water as if watching for something . 
As it emerged from the gloom I saw that it was a great canoe crammed with men and propelled by at least a score of paddles . 
As it shot under our stern the watch caught sight of it also , and raising a cry hurried aft . 
They were too late , however . 
A swarm of gigantic negroes clambered over the quarter , and led by Goring swept down the deck in an irresistible torrent . 
All opposition was overpowered in a moment , the unarmed watch were knocked over and bound , and the sleepers dragged out of their bunks and secured in the same manner . 
Hyson made an attempt to defend the narrow passage leading to his cabin , and I heard a scuffle , and his voice shouting for assistance . 
There was none to assist , however , and he was brought on to the poop with the blood streaming from a deep cut in his forehead . 
He was gagged like the others , and a council was held upon our fate by the negroes . 
I saw our black seamen pointing towards me and making some statement , which was received with murmurs of astonishment and incredulity by the savages . 
One of them then came over to me , and plunging his hand into my pocket took out my black stone and held it up . 
The chief then said a few words to Goring in the native tongue , on which the quadroon addressed me in English . 
At this moment I seem to see the scene . 
You will bear me witness , he said in his softest accents , that I am no party to sparing your life . 
If it rested with me you would die as these other men are about to do . 
You may thank that stone of yours for your life . 
These poor fellows reverence it , and indeed if it really be what they think it is they have cause . 
Should it prove when we get ashore that they are mistaken , and that its shape and material is a mere chance , nothing can save your life . 
As he finished he gave a sign , and a couple of the negroes unbound me , though without removing the gag . 
I was led down into the cabin , where I put a few valuables into my pockets , together with a pocket compass and my journal of the voyage . 
We had got about a hundred yards or so from the ship when our steersman held up his hand , and the paddlers paused for a moment and listened . 
Then on the silence of the night I heard a sort of dull , moaning sound , followed by a succession of splashes in the water . 
That is all I know of the fate of my poor shipmates . 
Almost immediately afterwards the large canoe followed us , and the deserted ship was left drifting about a dreary , spectre like hulk . 
Nothing was taken from her by the savages . 
The whole fiendish transaction was carried through as decorously and temperately as though it were a religious rite . 
The first grey of daylight was visible in the east as we passed through the surge and reached the shore . 
Leaving half a dozen men with the canoes , the rest of the negroes set off through the sand hills , leading me with them , but treating me very gently and respectfully . 
As we entered the town an enormous crowd of both sexes came swarming out to meet us , beating tom toms and howling and screaming . 
On seeing me they redoubled their yells and assumed a threatening attitude , which was instantly quelled by a few words shouted by my escort . 
I can but relate the occurrence in the simplest words , and trust to chance and time to prove their truth . 
The interior was even larger than one would have imagined from the outside appearance . 
There could not be a doubt that the one had been broken off from the other . 
The parts dovetailed together so accurately that when the old man removed his hand the ear stuck in its place for a few seconds before dropping into his open palm . 
In a moment I found myself converted from a prisoner into a demi god . 
I was escorted back through the town in triumph , the people pressing forward to touch my clothing and to gather up the dust on which my foot had trod . 
One of the largest huts was put at my disposal , and a banquet of every native delicacy was served me . 
I still felt , however , that I was not a free man , as several spearmen were placed as a guard at the entrance of my hut . 
All day my mind was occupied with plans of escape , but none seemed in any way feasible . 
On the one side was the great arid desert stretching away to Timbuctoo , on the other was a sea untraversed by vessels . 
The more I pondered over the problem the more hopeless did it seem . 
I little dreamed how near I was to its solution . 
Night had fallen , and the clamour of the negroes had died gradually away . 
I was stretched on the couch of skins which had been provided for me , and was still meditating over my future , when Goring walked stealthily into the hut . 
He smiled when he saw the action , and motioned me down again while he seated himself upon the other end of the couch . 
What do you think of me ? was the astonishing question with which he commenced our conversation . 
Think of you ! I almost yelled . 
I think you the vilest , most unnatural renegade that ever polluted the earth . 
If we were away from these black devils of yours I would strangle you with my hands ! Don't speak so loud , he said , without the slightest appearance of irritation . 
I don't want our chat to be cut short . 
So you would strangle me , would you ! he went on , with an amused smile . 
I suppose I am returning good for evil , for I have come to help you to escape . 
You ! I gasped incredulously . 
Yes , I , he continued . 
Oh , there is no credit to me in the matter . 
There is no reason why I should not be perfectly candid with you . 
I wish to be king over these fellows not a very high ambition , certainly , but you know what Caesar said about being first in a village in Gaul . 
You would give the world to ask me a few questions , he went on , after a pause but you are too proud to do it . 
Never mind , I'll tell you one or two things , because I want your fellow white men to know them when you go back if you are lucky enough to get back . 
About that cursed stone of yours , for instance . 
These negroes , or at least so the legend goes , were Mahometans originally . 
While Mahomet himself was still alive , there was a schism among his followers , and the smaller party moved away from Arabia , and eventually crossed Africa . 
They took away with them , in their exile , a valuable relic of their old faith in the shape of a large piece of the black stone of Mecca . 
The stone was a meteoric one , as you may have heard , and in its fall upon the earth it broke into two pieces . 
One of these pieces is still at Mecca . 
The larger piece was carried away to Barbary , where a skilful worker modelled it into the fashion which you saw to day . 
And the ear ? I asked , almost involuntarily . 
Oh , that was the same story over again . 
There has been a tradition among the negroes ever since that the ear would come back some day . 
He paused for a few minutes , resting his head upon his hands , waiting apparently for me to speak . 
When he looked up again , the whole expression of his face had changed . 
His features were firm and set , and he changed the air of half levity with which he had spoken before for one of sternness and almost ferocity . 
I wish you to carry a message back , he said , to the white race , the great dominating race whom I hate and defy . 
There is no satisfaction in revenge when your enemy does not know who has struck him . 
I am not sorry , therefore , to have you as a messenger . 
There is no need why I should tell you how this great hate became born in me . 
See this , and he held up his mutilated hand that was done by a white man's knife . 
My father was white , my mother was a slave . 
My young wife , too , oh , my young wife ! a shudder ran through his whole frame . 
No matter ! I swore my oath , and I kept it . 
From Maine to Florida , and from Boston to San Francisco , you could track my steps by sudden deaths which baffled the police . 
I warred against the whole white race as they for centuries had warred against the black one . 
At last , as I tell you , I sickened of blood . 
This idea possessed me , and I travelled over the world for two years seeking for what I desired . 
At last I almost despaired of finding it . 
There was no hope of regeneration in the slave dealing Soudanese , the debased Fantee , or the Americanised negroes of Liberia . 
I was returning from my quest when chance brought me in contact with this magnificent tribe of dwellers in the desert , and I threw in my lot with them . 
Before doing so , however , my old instinct of revenge prompted me to make one last visit to the United States , and I returned from it in the Marie Celeste . 
As to the voyage itself , your intelligence will have told you by this time that , thanks to my manipulation , both compasses and chronometers were entirely untrustworthy . 
I alone worked out the course with correct instruments of my own , while the steering was done by my black friends under my guidance . 
I pushed Tibbs's wife overboard . 
What ! You look surprised and shrink away . 
Surely you had guessed that by this time . 
I would have shot you that day through the partition , but unfortunately you were not there . 
I tried again afterwards , but you were awake . 
I think the idea of suicide was carried out rather neatly . 
Of course when once we got on the coast the rest was simple . 
I had bargained that all on board should die but that stone of yours upset my plans . 
I also bargained that there should be no plunder . 
No one can say we are pirates . 
We have acted from principle , not from any sordid motive . 
I still seem to see him sitting like a hideous nightmare at the end of my couch , with the single rude lamp flickering over his cadaverous features . 
And now , he continued , there is no difficulty about your escape . 
These stupid adopted children of mine will say that you have gone back to heaven from whence you came . 
The wind blows off the land . 
I have a boat all ready for you , well stored with provisions and water . 
I am anxious to be rid of you , so you may rely that nothing is neglected . 
Rise up and follow me . 
I did what he commanded , and he led me through the door of the hut . 
The guards had either been withdrawn , or Goring had arranged matters with them . 
We passed unchallenged through the town and across the sandy plain . 
Once more I heard the roar of the sea , and saw the long white line of the surge . 
Two figures were standing upon the shore arranging the gear of a small boat . 
They were the two sailors who had been with us on the voyage . 
See him safely through the surf , said Goring . 
The two men sprang in and pushed off , pulling me in after them . 
With mainsail and jib we ran out from the land and passed safely over the bar . 
Looking back I caught my last glimpse of Goring . 
He was standing upon the summit of a sand hill , and the rising moon behind him threw his gaunt angular figure into hard relief . 
Be that as it may , it was the last that I ever saw or ever shall see of Septimius Goring . 
There is no need for me to dwell upon my solitary voyage . 
I steered as well as I could for the Canaries , but was picked up upon the fifth day by the British and African Steam Navigation Company's boat Monrovia . 
From the day on which I found myself once more in the bosom of my family I have said little of what I have undergone . 
The subject is still an intensely painful one to me , and the little which I have dropped has been discredited . 
I make no vague statement . 
Turn to your map of Africa . 
New trains of reasoning became familiar to him , and he perceived connecting links where all had been incomprehensible and startling . 
Professor von Baumgarten was tall and thin , with a hatchet face and steel grey eyes , which were singularly bright and penetrating . 
He was popular among the students , who would gather round him after his lectures and listen eagerly to his strange theories . 
Of all these young devotees of science there was none who equalled in enthusiasm Fritz von Hartmann . 
The fact was , however , that Fritz was a knowing and long headed fellow . 
Months before he had lost his heart to young Elise , the blue eyed , yellow haired daughter of the lecturer . 
Although he had succeeded in learning from her lips that she was not indifferent to his suit , he had never dared to announce himself to her family as a formal suitor . 
Hence he would have found it a difficult matter to see his young lady had he not adopted the expedient of making himself useful to the Professor . 
Young Fritz von Hartmann was a handsome lad enough . 
There were broad acres , too , which would descend to him when his father died . 
To tell the truth , Fritz had an evil name in Keinplatz . 
Never was there a riot or a duel , or any other mischief afoot , but the young Rhinelander figured as a ringleader in it . 
No one used more free and violent language , no one drank more , no one played cards more habitually , no one was more idle , save in the one solitary subject . 
No wonder , then , that the good Frau Professorin gathered her Fraulein under her wing , and resented the attentions of such a mauvais sujet . 
As to the worthy lecturer , he was too much engrossed by his strange studies to form an opinion upon the subject one way or the other . 
For many years there was one question which had continually obtruded itself upon his thoughts . 
All his experiments and his theories turned upon a single point . 
When the possibility first suggested itself to him his scientific mind had revolted from it . 
It clashed too violently with preconceived ideas and the prejudices of his early training . 
There were many things which made him believe that it was possible for mind to exist apart from matter . 
At last it occurred to him that by a daring and original experiment the question might be definitely decided . 
In the case of a mesmerised person , the body lies in a cataleptic condition , but the spirit has left it . 
Perhaps you reply that the soul is there , but in a dormant condition . 
I have been able myself , with a sensitive subject , to obtain an accurate description of what was going on in another room or another house . 
There is only one way which I can see by which the fact can be demonstrated . 
Although we in the flesh are unable to see these spirits , yet our own spirits , could we separate them from the body , would be conscious of the presence of others . 
It is my intention , therefore , shortly to mesmerise one of my pupils . 
I shall then mesmerise myself in a manner which has become easy to me . 
After that , if my theory holds good , my spirit will have no difficulty in meeting and communing with the spirit of my pupil , both being separated from the body . 
I hope to be able to communicate the result of this interesting experiment in an early number of the Keinplatz wochenliche Medicalschrilt . 
When the good Professor finally fulfilled his promise , and published an account of what occurred , the narrative was so extraordinary that it was received with general incredulity . 
This narrative has been compiled , however , from the most authentic sources , and the events cited in it may be relied upon as substantially correct . 
At the head of them , half intoxicated and very noisy , was young Fritz von Hartmann . 
The Professor would have passed them , but his pupil ran across and intercepted him . 
Heh ! my worthy master , he said , taking the old man by the sleeve , and leading him down the road with him . 
What is it , then , Fritz ? the physiologist asked , looking at him in mild surprise . 
Is it not so ? It is true , Fritz . 
That would be a bad business . 
Surely you will not desert me . 
Consider the honour and glory . 
Consider the fiddlesticks ! the student cried angrily . 
And now you wish to take my soul out , as you would take the works from a watch . 
It is more than flesh and blood can stand . 
Dear , dear ! the Professor cried in great distress . 
That is very true , Fritz . 
I never thought of it before . 
If you can but suggest how I can compensate you , you will find me ready and willing . 
Then listen , said Fritz solemnly . 
These are my only terms . 
And what would my daughter say to this ? the Professor exclaimed , after a pause of astonishment . 
Elise would welcome it , the young man replied . 
We have loved each other long . 
My experiment is to be performed upon the fourth of next month . 
You will attend at the physiological laboratory at twelve o'clock . 
It will be a great occasion , Fritz . 
Von Gruben is coming from Jena , and Hinterstein from Basle . 
The chief men of science of all South Germany will be there . 
I shall be punctual , the student said briefly and so the two parted . 
The Professor did not exaggerate when he spoke of the widespread interest excited by his novel psychophysiological experiment . 
Long before the hour had arrived the room was filled by a galaxy of talent . 
Besides the celebrities whom he had mentioned , there had come from London the great Professor Lurcher , who had just established his reputation by a remarkable treatise upon cerebral centres . 
There was considerable applause from this eminent assembly upon the appearance of Professor von Baumgarten and his subject upon the platform . 
The lecturer , in a few well chosen words , explained what his views were , and how he proposed to test them . 
After a time nature will resume her sway , our spirits will return into our respective bodies , and all will be as before . 
With your kind permission , we shall now proceed to attempt the experiment . 
The applause was renewed at this speech , and the audience settled down in expectant silence . 
With a few rapid passes the Professor mesmerised the young man , who sank back in his chair , pale and rigid . 
It was a strange and impressive sight to see the old man and the young sitting together in the same cataleptic condition . 
Whither , then , had their souls fled ? That was the question which presented itself to each and every one of the spectators . 
Five minutes passed , and then ten , and then fifteen , and then fifteen more , while the Professor and his pupil sat stiff and stark upon the platform . 
During that time not a sound was heard from the assembled savants , but every eye was bent upon the two pale faces , in search of the first signs of returning consciousness . 
Nearly an hour had elapsed before the patient watchers were rewarded . 
A faint flush came back to the cheeks of Professor von Baumgarten . 
The soul was coming back once more to its earthly tenement . 
Tausend Teufel ! he exclaimed , rapping out a tremendous South German oath , to the great astonishment of his audience and to the disgust of the Swedenborgian . 
Where the Henker am I then , and what in thunder has occurred ? Oh yes , I remember now . 
One of these nonsensical mesmeric experiments . 
Stepping to the front of the platform , the young man apologised for the conduct of his companion . 
I am sorry to say , he said , that he is a harum scarum sort of fellow , although he appeared so grave at the commencement of this experiment . 
He is still suffering from mesmeric reaction , and is hardly accountable for his words . 
As to the experiment itself , I do not consider it to be a failure . 
This address , coming from so young a student , caused considerable astonishment among the audience , and some were inclined to be offended , thinking that he assumed rather too much importance . 
But here a strange and unforeseen complication had occurred . 
Hence the slang and scurrility which issued from the lips of the serious Professor , and hence also the weighty words and grave statements which fell from the careless student . 
It was an unprecedented event , yet no one knew of it , least of all those whom it concerned . 
Ha , ha ! my boys , he shouted . 
I knew I should find you here . 
Drink up , every one of you , and call for what you like , for I'm going to stand treat to day . 
They were so astonished that for a minute or two they glared at him in utter bewilderment without being able to make any reply to his hearty invitation . 
Donner und Blitzen ! shouted the Professor angrily . 
What the deuce is the matter with you , then ? You sit there like a set of stuck pigs staring at me . 
What is it , then ? It is the unexpected honour , stammered Spiegel , who was in the chair . 
Honour rubbish ! said the Professor testily . 
Beer , or wine , or shnapps , my lads call for what you like , and put it all down to me . 
Never was there such an afternoon in the Gruner Mann . 
The foaming flagons of lager and the green necked bottles of Rhenish circulated merrily . 
By degrees the students lost their shyness in the presence of their Professor . 
The Kellner and the barmaid whispered to each other outside the door their astonishment at such proceedings on the part of a Regius Professor of the ancient university of Kleinplatz . 
They had still more to whisper about afterwards , for the learned man cracked the Kellner's crown , and kissed the barmaid behind the kitchen door . 
Married ! cried a student , bolder than the others Is Madame dead , then ? Madame who ? Why , Madame von Baumgarten , of course . 
Ha , ha ! laughed the Professor I can see , then , that you know all about my former difficulties . 
No , she is not dead , but I have reason to believe that she will not oppose my marriage . 
That is very accommodating of her , remarked one of the company . 
In fact , said the Professor , I hope that she will now be induced to aid me in getting a wife . 
She and I never took to each other very much but now I hope all that may be ended , and when I marry she will come and stay with me . 
What a happy family ! exclaimed some wag . 
Yes , indeed and I hope you will come to my wedding , all of you . 
I won't mention names , but here is to my little bride ! and the Professor waved his glass in the air . 
Here's to his little bride ! roared the roysterers , with shouts of laughter . 
While all this festivity had been going on at the Graner Mann , a very different scene had been enacted elsewhere . 
As he walked he saw Von Althaus , the professor of anatomy , in front of him , and quickening his pace he overtook him . 
I say , Von Althaus , he exclaimed , tapping him on the sleeve , you were asking me for some information the other day concerning the middle coat of the cerebral arteries . 
Now I find Donnerwetter ! shouted Von Althaus , who was a peppery old fellow . 
What the deuce do you mean by your impertinence ! I'll have you up before the Academical Senate for this , sir with which threat he turned on his heel and hurried away . 
Von Hartmann was much surprised at this reception . 
It's on account of this failure of my experiment , he said to himself , and continued moodily on his way . 
Fresh surprises were in store for him , however . 
He was hurrying along when he was overtaken by two students . 
Gott in himmel ! roared Von Hartmann . 
What is the meaning of this unparalleled insult ? Where are you taking me ? To crack a bottle of wine with us , said the two students . 
Come along ! That is an invitation which you have never refused . 
I never heard of such insolence in my life ! cried Von Hartmann . 
Let go my arms ! I shall certainly have you rusticated for this . 
Let me go , I say ! and he kicked furiously at his captors . 
Oh , if you choose to turn ill tempered , you may go where you like , the students said , releasing him . 
We can do very well without you . 
As already remarked , she had a great antipathy to him , and if ever he ventured into the house it was on sufferance , and under the protection of the Professor . 
Still more astonished was she , therefore , when she beheld him undo the wicket gate and stride up the garden path with the air of one who is master of the situation . 
She could hardly believe her eyes , and hastened to the door with all her maternal instincts up in arms . 
From the upper windows the fair Elise had also observed this daring move upon the part of her lover , and her heart beat quick with mingled pride and consternation . 
Good day , sir , Madame Baumgarten remarked to the intruder , as she stood in gloomy majesty in the open doorway . 
A very fine day indeed , Martha , returned the other . 
Now , don't stand there like a statue of Juno , but bustle about and get the dinner ready , for I am well nigh starved . 
Martha ! Dinner ! ejaculated the lady , falling back in astonishment . 
Yes , dinner , Martha , dinner ! howled Von Hartmann , who was becoming irritable . 
Is there anything wonderful in that request when a man has been out all day ? I'll wait in the dining room . 
Schinken , and sausage , and prunes any little thing that happens to be about . 
There you are , standing staring again . 
In the meantime Von Hartmann strode into the room and threw himself down upon the sofa in the worst of tempers . 
Confound the girl ! Elise ! Thus roughly summoned , the young lady came timidly downstairs and into the presence of her lover . 
Dearest ! she cried , throwing her arms round him , I know this is all done for my sake ! It is a RUSE in order to see me . 
When he at last regained his utterance , he indulged in such a bellow of passion that the young lady dropped back , petrified with fear , into an armchair . 
Never have I passed such a day in my life , Von Hartmann cried , stamping upon the floor . 
Von Althaus has insulted me . 
Two students have dragged me along the public road . 
My wife nearly faints when I ask her for dinner , and my daughter flies at me and hugs me like a grizzly bear . 
You are ill , dear , the young lady cried . 
You have not even kissed me once . 
No , and I don't intend to either , Von Hartmann said with decision . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself . 
I can't stand much more of this , roared Von Hartmann furiously . 
This was the last straw . 
This impression became so strong with him , that when the stranger came abreast of him he stepped in front of him and took a good look at his features . 
Who the deuce are you ? I am Professor von Baumgarten , said the student . 
May I ask who you are ? I am strangely familiar with your features . 
You should never tell lies , young man , said the other . 
You're certainly not the Professor , for he is an ugly snuffy old chap , and you are a big broad shouldered young fellow . 
As to myself , I am Fritz von Hartmann at your service . 
That you certainly are not , exclaimed the body of Von Hartmann . 
You might very well be his father . 
But hullo , sir , are you aware that you are wearing my studs and my watch chain ? Donnerwetter ! hiccoughed the other . 
If those are not the trousers for which my tailor is about to sue me , may I never taste beer again . 
In an instant his active brain ran over the series of events which had occurred and sprang to the conclusion . 
He fairly reeled under the blow . 
Himmel ! he cried , I see it all . 
Our souls are in the wrong bodies . 
I say , remarked the real Von Hartmann from the body of the Professor , I quite see the force of your remarks , but don't go knocking my body about like that . 
You received it in excellent condition , but I perceive that you have wet it and bruised it , and spilled snuff over my ruffled shirt front . 
It matters little , the other said moodily . 
Such as we are so must we stay . 
My theory is triumphantly proved , but the cost is terrible . 
If I thought so , said the spirit of the student , it would be hard indeed . 
How ? gasped the Professor . 
Why , by repeating the experiment . 
Liberate our souls once more , and the chances are that they will find their way back into their respective bodies . 
No drowning man could clutch more eagerly at a straw than did Von Baumgarten's spirit at this suggestion . 
For some time after that people had some suspicion of the sanity of both the actors in this strange episode . 
The student also found by experience that it was wisest to be silent about the matter . 
When the worthy lecturer returned home that night he did not receive the cordial welcome which he might have looked for after his strange adventures . 
It was long before the domestic atmosphere of the lecturer's house resumed its normal quiet , and longer still before the genial face of Von Hartmann was seen beneath its roof . 
Perseverance , however , conquers every obstacle , and the student eventually succeeded in pacifying the enraged ladies and in establishing himself upon the old footing . 
The great spheres of which it is composed spin and spin through the eternal void ceaselessly and noiselessly . 
Of these one of the smallest and most insignificant is that conglomeration of solid and of liquid particles which we have named the earth . 
It whirls onwards now as it has done before my birth , and will do after my death a revolving mystery , coming none know whence , and going none know whither . 
Upon the outer crust of this moving mass crawl many mites , of whom I , John M Vittie , am one , helpless , impotent , being dragged aimlessly through space . 
I thus have no thought to expend upon the vital questions which surround me on every side . 
At last , however , came a time when my uncle , M Vittie of Glencairn , died the same who was at one time chairman of committees of the House of Commons . 
Up to this time I had been an attorney in a midland town in England . 
Now I saw that I could put my thoughts into effect , and , leaving all petty and sordid aims , could elevate my mind by the study of the secrets of nature . 
There was no legal action taken in the matter , but the papers yelped at me , and folk looked askance when I met them . 
The land which I had inherited was a narrow strip , consisting mostly of sand , and extending for rather over two miles round the coast of Mansie Bay , in Caithness . 
One room was my laboratory , another my sitting room , and in a third , just under the sloping roof , I slung the hammock in which I always slept . 
There were three other rooms , but I left them vacant , except one which was given over to the old crone who kept house for me . 
Save the Youngs and the M Leods , who were fisher folk living round at the other side of Fergus Ness , there were no other people for many miles in each direction . 
In front of the house was the great bay , behind it were two long barren hills , capped by other loftier ones beyond . 
I dislike my fellow mortals . 
Justice compels me to add that they appear for the most part to dislike me . 
I hate their little crawling ways , their conventionalities , their deceits , their narrow rights and wrongs . 
They take offence at my brusque outspokenness , my disregard for their social laws , my impatience of all constraint . 
Not stagnant either , for I was working in my own little groove , and making progress . 
I have reason to believe that Dalton's atomic theory is founded upon error , and I know that mercury is not an element . 
During the day I was busy with my distillations and analyses . 
Often I forgot my meals , and when old Madge summoned me to my tea I found my dinner lying untouched upon the table . 
At night I read Bacon , Descartes , Spinoza , Kant all those who have pried into what is unknowable . 
At times a restless spirit would come upon me , and I would walk thirty and forty miles without rest or breaking fast . 
I believe that I was known far and wide as the mad laird o' Mansie . 
This was the top of the dangerous ridge of rocks known to the fishermen as the ragged reef o' Mansie . 
When the wind blew from the east the waves would break upon it like thunder , and the spray would be tossed far over my house and up to the hills behind . 
There was something of romance about this lonely spot . 
This I heard with my own ears . 
In this strange spot , with the eternal hills behind me and the eternal sea in front , I worked and brooded for more than two years unpestered by my fellow men . 
Three rough days in June had been succeeded by one calm and peaceful one . 
There was not a breath of air that evening . 
The sun sank down in the west behind a line of purple clouds , and the smooth surface of the bay was gashed with scarlet streaks . 
As the darkness closed in , certain ragged clouds which had lain low on the eastern horizon coalesced and formed a great irregular cumulus . 
The glass was still low , and I knew that there was mischief brewing . 
About nine o'clock a dull moaning sound came up from the sea , as from a creature who , much harassed , learns that the hour of suffering has come round again . 
At ten a sharp breeze sprang up from the eastward . 
At eleven it had increased to a gale , and by midnight the most furious storm was raging which I ever remember upon that weather beaten coast . 
As I went to bed the shingle and seaweed were pattering up against my attic window , and the wind was screaming as though every gust were a lost soul . 
By that time the sounds of the tempest had become a lullaby to me . 
I knew that the grey walls of the old house would buffet it out , and for what occurred in the world outside I had small concern . 
Old Madge was usually as callous to such things as I was myself . 
I sprang out of my hammock , and roughly demanded of her what was the matter . 
Eh , maister , maister ! she screamed in her hateful dialect . 
Oh , Maister M Vittie , come doun ! Hold your tongue , you hag ! I shouted back in a passion . 
What is it to you whether they are drowned or not ? Get back to your bed and leave me alone . 
I turned in again and drew the blankets over me . 
Those men out there , I said to myself , have already gone through half the horrors of death . 
If they be saved they will but have to go through the same once more in the space of a few brief years . 
It is best therefore that they should pass away now , since they have suffered that anticipation which is more than the pain of dissolution . 
On this occasion I found , however , that the old leaven still fermented strongly in my soul . 
I tossed from side to side for some minutes endeavouring to beat down the impulses of the moment by the rules of conduct which I had framed during months of thought . 
Then I heard a dull roar amid the wild shriek of the gale , and I knew that it was the sound of a signal gun . 
Driven by an uncontrollable impulse , I rose , dressed , and having lit my pipe , walked out on to the beach . 
It was pitch dark when I came outside , and the wind blew with such violence that I had to put my shoulder against it and push my way along the shingle . 
I went down to where the great waves were thundering in , and shading my eyes with my hands to keep off the salt spray , I peered out to sea . 
I could distinguish nothing , and yet it seemed to me that shouts and great inarticulate cries were borne to me by the blasts . 
Suddenly as I gazed I made out the glint of a light , and then the whole bay and the beach were lit up in a moment by a vivid blue glare . 
They were burning a coloured signal light on board of the vessel . 
There she lay on her beam ends right in the centre of the jagged reef , hurled over to such an angle that I could see all the planking of her deck . 
She was a large two masted schooner , of foreign rig , and lay perhaps a hundred and eighty or two hundred yards from the shore . 
Every spar and rope and writhing piece of cordage showed up hard and clear under the livid light which sputtered and flickered from the highest portion of the forecastle . 
I felt my gorge rise against these poor cowering worms . 
Why should they presume to shirk the narrow pathway along which all that is great and noble among mankind has travelled ? There was one there who interested me more than they . 
He was a tall man , who stood apart from the others , balancing himself upon the swaying wreck as though he disdained to cling to rope or bulwark . 
He stood , dark , silent , and inscrutable , looking down on the black sea , and waiting for whatever fortune Fate might send him . 
It seemed to me that that problem would very soon be settled . 
As I looked , an enormous billow , topping all the others , and coming after them , like a driver following a flock , swept over the vessel . 
Her foremast snapped short off , and the men who clung to the shrouds were brushed away like a swarm of flies . 
With a rending , riving sound the ship began to split in two , where the sharp back of the Mansie reef was sawing into her keel . 
The solitary man upon the forecastle ran rapidly across the deck and seized hold of a white bundle which I had already observed but failed to make out . 
He bore her tenderly to the side and seemed to speak for a minute or so to her , as though explaining the impossibility of remaining upon the ship . 
Her answer was a singular one . 
I saw her deliberately raise her hand and strike him across the face with it . 
She shrank away from him , but he caught her in his arms . 
He stooped over her for a moment and seemed to press his lips against her forehead . 
As I watched those things my manhood overcame my philosophy , and I felt a frantic impulse to be up and doing . 
I threw my cynicism to one side as a garment which I might don again at leisure , and I rushed wildly to my boat and my sculls . 
I dragged her down to the sea with the strength of a maniac and sprang in . 
Far behind me I could hear the wild wailings of old Madge , who , seeing me start , thought no doubt that my madness had come to a climax . 
As I rowed I peered over my shoulder , until at last on the belly of a great wave which was sweeping towards me I distinguished the vague white outline of the woman . 
Stooping over , I seized her as she swept by me , and with an effort lifted her , all sodden with water , into the boat . 
There was no need to row back , for the next billow carried us in and threw us upon the beach . 
I dragged the boat out of danger , and then lifting up the woman I carried her to the house , followed by my housekeeper , loud with congratulation and praise . 
Now that I had done this thing a reaction set in upon me . 
I felt that my burden lived , for I heard the faint beat of her heart as I pressed my ear against her side in carrying her . 
Knowing this , I threw her down beside the fire which Madge had lit , with as little sympathy as though she had been a bundle of fagots . 
I never glanced at her to see if she were fair or no . 
For many years I had cared little for the face of a woman . 
The morning after the gale was peaceful and sunny . 
As I walked along the long sweep of sand I could hear the panting of the sea . 
It was heaving and swirling about the reef , but along the shore it rippled in gently enough . 
A couple of broad winged gulls were hovering and skimming over the scene of the shipwreck , as though many strange things were visible to them beneath the waves . 
At times I could hear their raucous voices as they spoke to one another of what they saw . 
When I came back from my walk the woman was waiting at the door for me . 
I began to wish when I saw her that I had never saved her , for here was an end of my privacy . 
She was very young at the most nineteen , with a pale somewhat refined face , yellow hair , merry blue eyes , and shining teeth . 
Her beauty was of an ethereal type . 
She looked so white and light and fragile that she might have been the spirit of that storm foam from out of which I plucked her . 
She had wreathed some of Madge's garments round her in a way which was quaint and not unbecoming . 
At this she seemed somewhat hurt , and the tears sprang into her eyes , but she followed me into the sitting room and watched me wistfully . 
What country do you come from ? I asked her suddenly . 
She smiled when I spoke , but shook her head . 
Deutsch ? Espagnol ? each time she shook her head , and then she rippled off into a long statement in some tongue of which I could not understand one word . 
After breakfast was over , however , I got a clue to her nationality . 
Passing along the beach once more , I saw that in a cleft of the ridge a piece of wood had been jammed . 
I rowed out to it in my boat , and brought it ashore . 
So , I thought , as I paddled slowly back , this pale damsel is a Russian . 
When I came back into the house , I pronounced the word Archangel several times in different intonations , but she did not appear to recognise it . 
I shut myself up in the laboratory all the morning , continuing a research which I was making upon the nature of the allotropic forms of carbon and of sulphur . 
When I came out at mid day for some food she was sitting by the table with a needle and thread , mending some rents in her clothes , which were now dry . 
I resented her continued presence , but I could not turn her out on the beach to shift for herself . 
Presently she presented a new phase of her character . 
Pointing to herself and then to the scene of the shipwreck , she held up one finger , by which I understood her to be asking whether she was the only one saved . 
I nodded my head to indicate that she was . 
As she whirled round she sang in a plaintive shrill voice some uncouth barbarous chant , expressive of exultation . 
I called out to her , Come in , you young fiend , come in and be silent ! but she went on with her dance . 
Then she suddenly ran towards me , and catching my hand before I could pluck it away , she kissed it . 
Every moment of my life now I regretted the unguarded precipitancy with which I had saved this woman . 
What was it to me whether she had lived or died ? I was no young , hot headed youth to do such things . 
It was bad enough to be compelled to have Madge in the house , but she was old and ugly , and could be ignored . 
This one was young and lively , and so fashioned as to divert attention from graver things . 
It was better to endure her presence than that . 
I soon found that there were fresh troubles in store for me . 
There is no place safe from the swarming , restless race of which I am a member . 
Sometimes on these occasions I took my book with me . 
I did so on this night , and stretching myself upon a sand dune I composed myself to read . 
As I lay there I suddenly became aware of a shadow which interposed itself between the sun and myself . 
He wore a faded velveteen jacket , a red flannel shirt , and high sea boots , coming half way up his thighs . 
I recognised him at a glance as being the same man who had been left on the wreck the night before . 
Hullo ! I said , in an aggrieved voice . 
You got ashore all right , then ? Yes , he answered , in good English . 
It was no doing of mine . 
The waves threw me up . 
I wish to God I had been allowed to drown ! There was a slight foreign lisp in his accent which was rather pleasing . 
Two good fishermen , who live round yonder point , pulled me out and cared for me yet I could not honestly thank them for it . 
Ho ! ho ! thought I , here is a man of my own kidney . 
Why do you wish to be drowned ? I asked . 
Well , well , I said . 
People are ruined every day , but there's no use making a fuss about it . 
Let me inform you that this ground on which you walk is my ground , and that the sooner you take yourself off it the better pleased I shall be . 
One of you is quite trouble enough . 
One of us ? he gasped . 
Yes if you could take her off with you I should be still more grateful . 
Never before or since have I seen a human being run so fast . 
I followed as rapidly as I could , furious at this threatened invasion , but long before I reached the house he had disappeared through the open door . 
I heard a great scream from the inside , and as I came nearer the sound of a man's bass voice speaking rapidly and loudly . 
The other , with his dark eyes flashing , and his outstretched hands quivering with emotion , was pouring forth a torrent of passionate pleading words . 
Here ! I said , pulling him back from her . 
This woman is my wife , and I feared that she was drowned . 
You have brought me back to life . 
Who are you ? I asked roughly . 
I am a man from Archangel , he said simply a Russian man . 
What is your name ? Ourganeff . 
Ourganeff ! and hers is Sophie Ramusine . 
She is no wife of yours . 
We are man and wife in the sight of Heaven , he said solemnly , looking upwards . 
We are bound by higher laws than those of earth . 
As he spoke the girl slipped behind me and caught me by the other hand , pressing it as though beseeching my protection . 
Give me up my wife , sir , he went on . 
Let me take her away from here . 
Look here , you whatever your name is , I said sternly I don't want this wench here . 
I wish I had never seen her . 
If she died it would be no grief to me . 
But as to handing her over to you , when it is clear she fears and hates you , I won't do it . 
So now just clear your great body out of this , and leave me to my books . 
I hope I may never look upon your face again . 
You won't give her up to me ? he said hoarsely . 
I'll see you damned first ! I answered . 
Suppose I take her , he cried , his dark face growing darker . 
All my tigerish blood flushed up in a moment . 
I picked up a billet of wood from beside the fireplace . 
Go , I said , in a low voice go quick , or I may do you an injury . 
He looked at me irresolutely for a moment , and then he left the house . 
He came back again in a moment , however , and stood in the doorway looking in at us . 
Have a heed what you do , he said . 
The woman is mine , and I shall have her . 
When it comes to blows , a Russian is as good a man as a Scotchman . 
We shall see that , I cried , springing forward , but he was already gone , and I could see his tall form moving away through the gathering darkness . 
For a month or more after this things went smoothly with us . 
I never spoke to the Russian girl , nor did she ever address me . 
Sometimes when I was at work in my laboratory she would slip inside the door and sit silently there watching me with her great eyes . 
At first this intrusion annoyed me , but by degrees , finding that she made no attempt to distract my attention , I suffered her to remain . 
I have a habit of talking aloud to myself at times when I work , so as to fix my results better in my mind . 
By this I knew that she suspected that her fellow countryman was still in the neighbourhood , and feared that he might attempt to carry her off . 
She did something else which was significant . 
I had an old revolver with some cartridges , which had been thrown away among the rubbish . 
She found this one day , and at once proceeded to clean it and oil it . 
In my absence she would always bolt the door . 
Apart from her apprehensions she seemed fairly happy , busying herself in helping Madge when she was not attending upon me . 
She was wonderfully nimble fingered and natty in all domestic duties . 
It was not long before I discovered that her suspicions were well founded , and that this man from Archangel was still lurking in the vicinity . 
Being restless one night I rose and peered out of the window . 
The weather was somewhat cloudy , and I could barely make out the line of the sea , and the loom of my boat upon the beach . 
Then I saw what this was which haunted my doorstep . 
It was he , the Russian . 
My first impulse was to shoot him as a trespasser , but , as I gazed , my resentment changed into pity and contempt . 
As I returned to my bed I chuckled much to myself over this thought . 
I knew that my bars were strong and my bolts thick . 
It mattered little to me whether this strange man spent his night at my door or a hundred leagues off , so long as he was gone by the morning . 
As I expected , when I rose and went out there was no sign of him , nor had he left any trace of his midnight vigil . 
It was not long , however , before I saw him again . 
I pulled along the coast some miles , and then , feeling thirsty , I landed at a place where I knew that a fresh water stream trickled down into the sea . 
This rivulet passed through my land , but the mouth of it , where I found myself that day , was beyond my boundary line . 
I felt somewhat taken aback when rising from the stream at which I had slaked my thirst I found myself face to face with the Russian . 
I was as much a trespasser now as he was , and I could see at a glance that he knew it . 
I wish to speak a few words to you , he said gravely . 
Hurry up , then ! I answered , glancing at my watch . 
I have no time to listen to chatter . 
Chatter ! he repeated angrily . 
You Scotch people are strange men . 
No doubt you are kind and good , too , in spite of your roughness . 
In the name of the devil , I said , say your say , and go your way . 
I am weary of the sight of you . 
Can I not soften you in any way ? he cried . 
Ah , see see here he produced a small Grecian cross from inside his velvet jacket . 
Our religions may differ in form , but at least we have some common thoughts and feelings when we see this emblem . 
I am not so sure of that , I answered . 
He looked at me thoughtfully . 
You are a very strange man , he said at last . 
You still stand between me and Sophie . 
It is a dangerous position to take , sir . 
Oh , believe me , before it is too late . 
But God preserve me from that , he cried wildly . 
I am deep too deep already . 
You would do better to go back to your country , I said , than to skulk about these sand hills and disturb my leisure . 
When I have proof that you have gone away I shall hand this woman over to the protection of the Russian Consul at Edinburgh . 
Until then , I shall guard her myself , and not you , nor any Muscovite that ever breathed , shall take her from me . 
And what is your object in keeping me from Sophie ? he asked . 
Do you imagine that I would injure her ? Why , man , I would give my life freely to save her from the slightest harm . 
Why do you do this thing ? I do it because it is my good pleasure to act so , I answered . 
I give no man reasons for my conduct . 
Look here ! he cried , suddenly blazing into fury , and advancing towards me with his shaggy mane bristling and his brown hands clenched . 
The very idea seemed to have put the man in a frenzy , for his face was all distorted and his hands opened and shut convulsively . 
I thought that he was about to spring at my throat . 
Stand off , I said , putting my hand on my pistol . 
If you lay a finger on me I shall kill you . 
No doubt he had found by experience that this was the most effectual way of curbing his passions . 
I told you , he said in a quieter voice , that my name is Ourganeff Alexis Ourganeff . 
I am a Finn by birth , but I have spent my life in every part of the world . 
I was one who could never be still , nor settle down to a quiet existence . 
After I came to own my own ship there is hardly a port from Archangel to Australia which I have not entered . 
In such moments , sir , something gives way in my head , and I hardly know what I do . 
I landed with a boat's crew all men who had sailed with me for years , and who were as true as steel . 
We went up to the church . 
They were standing , she and he , before the priest , but the thing had not been done . 
I dashed between them and caught her round the waist . 
My men beat back the frightened bridegroom and the lookers on . 
She had my cabin , my room , every comfort . 
I slept among the men in the forecastle . 
I hoped that in time her aversion to me would wear away , and that she would consent to marry me in England or in France . 
For days and days we sailed . 
Then came this cursed storm which shattered both my ship and my hopes , and has deprived me even of the sight of the woman for whom I have risked so much . 
Perhaps she may learn to love me yet . 
You , sir , he said wistfully , look like one who has seen much of the world . 
Do you not think that she may come to forget this man and to love me ? I am tired of your story , I said , turning away . 
For my part , I think you are a great fool . 
If you imagine that this love of yours will pass away you had best amuse yourself as best you can until it does . 
If , on the other hand , it is a fixed thing , you cannot do better than cut your throat , for that is the shortest way out of it . 
I have no more time to waste on the matter . 
With this I hurried away and walked down to the boat . 
I never looked round , but I heard the dull sound of his feet upon the sands as he followed me . 
I have told you the beginning of my story , he said , and you shall know the end some day . 
You would do well to let the girl go . 
I never answered him , but pushed the boat off . 
When I had rowed some distance out I looked back and saw his tall figure upon the yellow sand as he stood gazing thoughtfully after me . 
When I looked again some minutes later he had disappeared . 
For a long time after this my life was as regular and as monotonous as it had been before the shipwreck . 
My relations with the Russian girl remained the same as before . 
Old Madge had been somewhat jealous of her presence at first , and seemed to fear that what little authority she had would be taken away from her . 
And now I am coming near the end of this narrative of mine , which I have written a great deal more for my own amusement than for that of any one else . 
The termination of the strange episode in which these two Russians had played a part was as wild and as sudden as the commencement . 
The events of one single night freed me from all my troubles , and left me once more alone with my books and my studies , as I had been before their intrusion . 
Let me endeavour to describe how this came about . 
I had had a long day of heavy and wearying work , so that in the evening I determined upon taking a long walk . 
When I emerged from the house my attention was attracted by the appearance of the sea . 
It lay like a sheet of glass , so that never a ripple disturbed its surface . 
The fishermen's wives along that coast know the eerie sound , and look anxiously across the waters for the brown sails making for the land . 
When I heard it I stepped back into the house and looked at the glass . 
It was down below degrees . 
Then I knew that a wild night was coming upon us . 
Underneath the hills where I walked that evening it was dull and chill , but their summits were rosy red , and the sea was brightened by the sinking sun . 
There were no clouds of importance in the sky , yet the dull groaning of the sea grew louder and stronger . 
I saw , far to the eastward , a brig beating up for Wick , with a reef in her topsails . 
It was evident that her captain had read the signs of nature as I had done . 
Behind her a long , lurid haze lay low upon the water , concealing the horizon . 
I had better push on , I thought to myself , or the wind may rise before I can get back . 
I suppose I must have been at least half a mile from the house when I suddenly stopped and listened breathlessly . 
I waited , listening with all my ears . 
Yes , there it was again a long drawn , shrill cry of despair , ringing over the sands and echoed back from the hills behind me a piteous appeal for aid . 
It came from the direction of my house . 
I turned and ran back homewards at the top of my speed , ploughing through the sand , racing over the shingle . 
In my mind there was a great dim perception of what had occurred . 
About a quarter of a mile from the house there is a high sand hill , from which the whole country round is visible . 
When I reached the top of this I paused for a moment . 
There was the old grey building there the boat . 
Everything seemed to be as I had left it . 
Over his shoulder was the white form of the young girl , and even in his haste he seemed to bear her tenderly and with gentle reverence . 
I could hear her wild cries and see her desperate struggles to break away from him . 
Behind the couple came my old housekeeper , staunch and true , as the aged dog , who can no longer bite , still snarls with toothless gums at the intruder . 
She staggered feebly along at the heels of the ravisher , waving her long , thin arms , and hurling , no doubt , volleys of Scotch curses and imprecations at his head . 
I saw at a glance that he was making for the boat . 
A sudden hope sprang up in my soul that I might be in time to intercept him . 
I ran for the beach at the top of my speed . 
As I ran I slipped a cartridge into my revolver . 
This I determined should be the last of these invasions . 
By the time I reached the water's edge he was a hundred yards away , making the boat spring with every stroke of his powerful arms . 
I uttered a wild cry of impotent anger , and stamped up and down the sands like a maniac . 
He turned and saw me . 
Rising from his seat he made me a graceful bow , and waved his hand to me . 
It was not a triumphant or a derisive gesture . 
Even my furious and distempered mind recognised it as being a solemn and courteous leave taking . 
Then he settled down to his oars once more , and the little skiff shot away out over the bay . 
The sun had gone down now , leaving a single dull , red streak upon the water , which stretched away until it blended with the purple haze on the horizon . 
Gradually the skiff grew smaller and smaller as it sped across this lurid band , until the shades of night gathered round it and it became a mere blur upon the lonely sea . 
Then this vague loom died away also and darkness settled over it a darkness which should never more be raised . 
But my pride ah , there I had been cruelly wounded . 
That night a great wind rose up from the sea , and the wild waves shrieked upon the shore as though they would tear it back with them into the ocean . 
The turmoil and the uproar were congenial to my vexed spirit . 
All night I wandered up and down , wet with spray and rain , watching the gleam of the white breakers and listening to the outcry of the storm . 
My heart was bitter against the Russian . 
I joined my feeble pipe to the screaming of the gale . 
If he would but come back again ! I cried with clenched hands if he would but come back ! He came back . 
A few hundred yards off along the sand there lay a long dark object , cast up by the fury of the waves . 
It was my boat , much shattered and splintered . 
A little further on , a vague , shapeless something was washing to and fro in the shallow water , all mixed with shingle and with seaweed . 
I saw at a glance that it was the Russian , face downwards and dead . 
I rushed into the water and dragged him up on to the beach . 
Madge and I buried them there on the shores of the desolate northern sea . 
They lie in one grave deep down beneath the yellow sand . 
Strange things may happen in the world around them . 
I sometimes have thought that their spirits flit like shadowy sea mews over the wild waters of the bay . 
All aboard ? said the captain . 
All aboard , sir ! said the mate . 
Then stand by to let her go . 
It was nine o'clock on a Wednesday morning . 
The good ship Spartan was lying off Boston Quay with her cargo under hatches , her passengers shipped , and everything prepared for a start . 
The warning whistle had been sounded twice the final bell had been rung . 
Her bowsprit was turned towards England , and the hiss of escaping steam showed that all was ready for her run of three thousand miles . 
She strained at the warps that held her like a greyhound at its leash , I have the misfortune to be a very nervous man . 
A sedentary literary life has helped to increase the morbid love of solitude which , even in my boyhood , was one of my distinguishing characteristics . 
As I stood upon the quarter deck of the Transatlantic steamer , I bitterly cursed the necessity which drove me back to the land of my forefathers . 
An indescribable feeling , as of some impending calamity , seemed to haunt me . 
The sea was calm , and the breeze light . 
There was nothing to disturb the equanimity of the most confirmed of landsmen , yet I felt as if I stood upon the verge of a great though indefinable danger . 
I have noticed that such presentiments occur often in men of my peculiar temperament , and that they are not uncommonly fulfilled . 
There is a theory that it arises from a species of second sight , a subtle spiritual communication with the future . 
Be that as it may , I certainly felt far from happy as I threaded my way among the weeping , cheering groups which dotted the white decks of the good ship Spartan . 
Time's up ! said the captain , closing his chronometer with a snap , and replacing it in his pocket . 
Time's up ! said the mate . 
There was a last wail from the whistle , a rush of friends and relatives upon the land . 
One warp was loosened , the gangway was being pushed away , when there was a shout from the bridge , and two men appeared , running rapidly down the quay . 
They were waving their hands and making frantic gestures , apparently with the intention of stopping the ship . 
Look sharp ! shouted the crowd . 
Hold hard ! cried the captain . 
We were fairly started upon our fortnight's voyage . 
I glanced round the deck and took a running inventory of my compagnons de voyage . 
They presented the usual types met with upon these occasions . 
There was no striking face among them . 
I speak as a connoisseur , for faces are a specialty of mine . 
There was nothing worthy of me here . 
A pile of portmanteaus and luggage chanced to be lying on one side of the deck , awaiting their turn to be taken below . 
With my usual love for solitude I walked behind these , and sitting on a coil of rope between them and the vessel's side , I indulged in a melancholy reverie . 
I was aroused from this by a whisper behind me . 
Here's a quiet place , said the voice . 
Sit down , and we can talk it over in safety . 
Glancing through a chink between two colossal chests , I saw that the passengers who had joined us at the last moment were standing at the other side of the pile . 
They had evidently failed to see me as I crouched in the shadow of the boxes . 
The one who had spoken was a tall and very thin man with a blue black beard and a colourless face . 
His manner was nervous and excited . 
His companion was a short plethoric little fellow , with a brisk and resolute air . 
He had a cigar in his mouth , and a large ulster slung over his left arm . 
They both glanced round uneasily , as if to ascertain whether they were alone . 
This is just the place , I heard the other say . 
Well , Muller , said the taller of the two , we've got it aboard right enough . 
Yes , assented the man whom he had addressed as Muller , it's safe aboard . 
It was rather a near go . 
It was that , Flannigan . 
It wouldn't have done to have missed the ship . 
No , it would have put our plans out . 
Ruined them entirely , said the little man , and puffed furiously at his cigar for some minutes . 
I've got it here , he said at last . 
Is no one looking ? No , they are nearly all below . 
One glance at it was enough to cause me to spring to my feet with an exclamation of horror . 
Luckily they were so engrossed in the matter on hand that neither of them observed me . 
Had they turned their heads they would infallibly have seen my pale face glaring at them over the pile of boxes . 
From the first moment of their conversation a horrible misgiving had come over me . 
It seemed more than confirmed as I gazed at what lay before me . 
It was a little square box made of some dark wood , and ribbed with brass . 
I suppose it was about the size of a cubic foot . 
It reminded me of a pistol case , only it was decidedly higher . 
There was an appendage to it , however , on which my eyes were riveted , and which suggested the pistol itself rather than its receptacle . 
This was a trigger like arrangement upon the lid , to which a coil of string was attached . 
Beside this trigger there was a small square aperture through the wood . 
The tall man , Flannigan , as his companion called him , applied his eye to this , and peered in for several minutes with an expression of intense anxiety upon his face . 
It seems right enough , he said at last . 
I tried not to shake it , said his companion . 
Such delicate things need delicate treatment . 
Put in some of the needful , Muller . 
The shorter man fumbled in his pocket for some time , and then produced a small paper packet . 
He opened this , and took out of it half a handful of whitish granules , which he poured down through the hole . 
A curious clicking noise followed from the inside of the box , and both the men smiled in a satisfied way . 
Nothing much wrong there , said Flannigan . 
Right as a trivet , answered his companion . 
Look out ! here's some one coming . 
Take it down to our berth . 
It wouldn't do to have any one suspecting what our game is , or , worse still , have them fumbling with it , and letting it off by mistake . 
Well , it would come to the same , whoever let it off , said Muller . 
They'd be rather astonished if they pulled the trigger , said the taller , with a sinister laugh . 
Ha , ha ! fancy their faces ! It's not a bad bit of workmanship , I flatter myself . 
I hear it is your own design , every bit of it , isn't it ? Yes , the spring and the sliding shutter are my own . 
We should take out a patent . 
And the two men laughed again with a cold harsh laugh , as they took up the little brass bound package , and concealed it in Muller's voluminous overcoat . 
Come down , and we'll stow it in our berth , said Flannigan . 
We won't need it until to night , and it will be safe there . 
His companion assented , and the two went arm in arm along the deck and disappeared down the hatchway , bearing the mysterious little box away with them . 
The last words I heard were a muttered injunction from Flannigan to carry it carefully , and avoid knocking it against the bulwarks . 
How long I remained sitting on that coil of rope I shall never know . 
The horror of the conversation I had just overheard was aggravated by the first sinking qualms of sea sickness . 
The long roll of the Atlantic was beginning to assert itself over both ship and passengers . 
I felt prostrated in mind and in body , and fell into a state of collapse , from which I was finally aroused by the hearty voice of our worthy quartermaster . 
Do you mind moving out of that , sir ? he said . 
We want to get this lumber cleared off the deck . 
His bluff manner and ruddy healthy face seemed to be a positive insult to me in my present condition . 
Had I been a courageous or a muscular man I could have struck him . 
As it was , I treated the honest sailor to a melodramatic scowl which seemed to cause him no small astonishment , and strode past him to the other side of the deck . 
Solitude was what I wanted solitude in which I could brood over the frightful crime which was being hatched before my very eyes . 
One of the quarter boats was hanging rather low down upon the davits . 
An idea struck me , and climbing on the bulwarks , I stepped into the empty boat and lay down in the bottom of it . 
I tried to recall the words which had been spoken in the terrible dialogue I had overheard . 
Would they admit of any construction but the one which stared me in the face ? My reason forced me to confess that they would not . 
I endeavoured to array the various facts which formed the chain of circumstantial evidence , and to find a flaw in it but no , not a link was missing . 
There was the strange way in which our passengers had come aboard , enabling them to evade any examination of their luggage . 
The very name of Flannigan smacked of Fenianism , while Muller suggested nothing but socialism and murder . 
I had myself heard a sound come from it which might have emanated from some delicate piece of machinery . 
I have remarked that I am a physical coward . 
I am a moral one also . 
It is seldom that the two defects are united to such a degree in the one character . 
I have known many men who were most sensitive to bodily danger , and yet were distinguished for the independence and strength of their minds . 
An ordinary mortal placed under the circumstances in which I now found myself would have gone at once to the Captain , confessed his fears , and put the matter into his hands . 
To me , however , constituted as I am , the idea was most repugnant . 
The thought of becoming the observed of all observers , cross questioned by a stranger , and confronted with two desperate conspirators in the character of a denouncer , was hateful to me . 
Anything was better than the possibility of being wrong . 
Then it struck me that even at that moment some new phase of the conspiracy might be developing itself . 
The nervous excitement seemed to have driven away my incipient attack of sickness , for I was able to stand up and lower myself from the boat without experiencing any return of it . 
I staggered along the deck with the intention of descending into the cabin and finding how my acquaintances of the morning were occupying themselves . 
Is that you , Hammond ? said a voice which I seemed to recognise . 
Since I was a little lad in the second form at Harrow , Dick had been my adviser and protector . 
He saw at a glance that something had gone wrong with me . 
Hullo ! he said , in his kindly way , what's put you about , Hammond ? You look as white as a sheet . 
Mal de mer , eh ? No , not that altogether , said I. Walk up and down with me , Dick I want to speak to you . 
Supporting myself on Dick's stalwart frame , I tottered along by his side but it was some time before I could muster resolution to speak . 
Have a cigar , said he , breaking the silence . 
No , thanks , said I. Dick , we shall be all corpses to night . 
That's no reason against your having a cigar now , said Dick , in his cool way , but looking hard at me from under his shaggy eyebrows as he spoke . 
He evidently thought that my intellect was a little gone . 
No , I continued , it's no laughing matter and I speak in sober earnest , I assure you . 
I'd be frightened , he said , if any fellow but you had told me as much . 
You always had a way , Hammond , of discovering mares' nests . 
I like to see the old traits breaking out again . 
Do you remember at school how you swore there was a ghost in the long room , and how it turned out to be your own reflection in the mirror . 
Why , man , he continued , what object would any one have in destroying this ship ? We have no great political guns aboard . 
On the contrary , the majority of the passengers are Americans . 
Besides , in this sober nineteenth century , the most wholesale murderers stop at including themselves among their victims . 
Depend upon it , you have misunderstood them , and have mistaken a photographic camera , or something equally innocent , for an infernal machine . 
Nothing of the sort , sir , said I , rather touchily You will learn to your cost , I fear , that I have neither exaggerated nor misinterpreted a word . 
As to the box , I have certainly never before seen one like it . 
It contained delicate machinery of that I am convinced , from the way in which the men handled it and spoke of it . 
You'd make out every packet of perishable goods to be a torpedo , said Dick , if that is to be your only test . 
The man's name was Flannigan , I continued . 
I don't think that would go very far in a court of law , said Dick but come , I have finished my cigar . 
Suppose we go down together and split a bottle of claret . 
You can point out these two Orsinis to me if they are still in the cabin . 
All right , I answered I am determined not to lose sight of them all day . 
Don't look hard at them , though , for I don't want them to think that they are being watched . 
Trust me , said Dick I'll look as unconscious and guileless as a lamb and with that we passed down the companion and into the saloon . 
The objects of our quest were not there . 
We passed down the room and peered into every berth , but there was no sign of them . 
Steward , said Dick , are there any other gentlemen about ? There's two in the smoking room , sir , answered the steward . 
The smoking room was a little snuggery , luxuriously fitted up , and adjoining the pantry . 
We pushed the door open and entered . 
A sigh of relief escaped from my bosom . 
The very first object on which my eye rested was the cadaverous face of Flannigan , with its hard set mouth and unwinking eye . 
His companion sat opposite to him . 
They were both drinking , and a pile of cards lay upon the table . 
They were engaged in playing as we entered . 
I nudged Dick to show him that we had found our quarry , and we sat down beside them with as unconcerned an air as possible . 
The two conspirators seemed to take little notice of our presence . 
I watched them both narrowly . 
The game at which they were playing was Napoleon . 
Money changed hands rapidly but the run of luck seemed to be all against the taller of the two players . 
At last he threw down his cards on the table with an oath , and refused to go on . 
No , I'm hanged if I do , he said I haven't had more than two of a suit for five hands . 
Never mind , said his comrade , as he gathered up his winnings a few dollars one way or the other won't go very far after to night's work . 
I was astonished at the rascal's audacity , but took care to keep my eyes fixed abstractedly upon the ceiling , and drank my wine in as unconscious a manner as possible . 
I felt that Flannigan was looking towards me with his wolfish eyes to see if I had noticed the allusion . 
He whispered something to his companion which I failed to catch . 
It was a caution , I suppose , for the other answered rather angrily Nonsense ! Why shouldn't I say what I like ? Over caution is just what would ruin us . 
I believe you want it not to come off , said Flannigan . 
You believe nothing of the sort , said the other , speaking rapidly and loudly . 
You know as well as I do that when I play for a stake I like to win it . 
But I won't have my words criticised and cut short by you or any other man . 
I have as much interest in our success as you have more , I hope . 
He was quite hot about it , and puffed furiously at his cigar for some minutes . 
The eyes of the other ruffian wandered alternately from Dick Merton to myself . 
As to Dick , he was as immovable and apparently as unconscious as the Egyptian Sphinx . 
He still seemed to be somewhat flushed and irritable . 
Throwing the end of his cigar into the spittoon , he glanced defiantly at his companion and turned towards me . 
Ha , ha ! laughed the angry little man , I knew you would say that . 
Don't you kick me under the table , Flannigan , I won't stand it . 
I know what I am doing . 
You are wrong , sir , he continued , turning to me , utterly wrong . 
Some passing ship , perhaps , suggested Dick . 
No , nor that either . 
The weather is fine , I said why should we not be heard of at our destination . 
I didn't say we shouldn't be heard of at our destination . 
Possibly we may not , and in any case that is not where we shall be heard of first . 
Where then ? asked Dick . 
That you shall never know . 
Suffice it that a rapid and mysterious agency will signal our whereabouts , and that before the day is out . 
Ha , ha ! and he chuckled once again . 
Come on deck ! growled his comrade you have drunk too much of that confounded brandy and water . 
It has loosened your tongue . 
Well , what do you think now ? I gasped , as I turned towards Dick . 
He was as imperturbable as ever . 
Think ! he said why , I think what his companion thinks , that we have been listening to the ravings of a half drunken man . 
The fellow stunk of brandy . 
Nonsense , Dick I you saw how the other tried to stop his tongue . 
He didn't want his friend to make a fool of himself before strangers . 
Maybe the short one is a lunatic , and the other his private keeper . 
He meant a sudden glare and a flash seen far out at sea by some lonely fisherman off the American coast . 
I didn't think you were such a fool , Hammond , said Dick Merton testily . 
If you try to fix a literal meaning on the twaddle that every drunken man talks , you will come to some queer conclusions . 
Let us follow their example , and go on deck . 
You need fresh air , I think . 
Depend upon it , your liver is out of order . 
A sea voyage will do you a world of good . 
If ever I see the end of this one , I groaned , I'll promise never to venture on another . 
They are laying the cloth , so it's hardly worth while my going up . 
I'll stay below and unpack my things . 
My appetite , I need hardly say , had not been improved by the incidents which had occurred during the day . 
I sat down , however , mechanically at the table , and listened to the talk which was going on around me . 
There were nearly a hundred first class passengers , and as the wine began to circulate , their voices combined with the clash of the dishes to form a perfect Babel . 
I could see Dick in the dim distance dividing his attentions between a jointless fowl in front of him and a self possessed young lady at his side . 
Captain Dowie was doing the honours at my end , while the surgeon of the vessel was seated at the other . 
I was glad to notice that Flannigan was placed almost opposite to me . 
As long as I had him before my eyes I knew that , for the time at least , we were safe . 
He was sitting with what was meant to be a sociable smile on his grim face . 
It did not escape me that he drank largely of wine so largely that even before the dessert appeared his voice had become decidedly husky . 
His friend Muller was seated a few places lower down . 
He ate little , and appeared to be nervous and restless . 
Now , ladies , said our genial Captain , I trust that you will consider yourselves at home aboard my vessel . 
I have no fears for the gentlemen . 
A bottle of champagne , steward . 
Here's to a fresh breeze and a quick passage ! I trust our friends in America will hear of our safe arrival in eight days , or in nine at the very latest . 
Quick as was the glance which passed between Flannigan and his confederate , I was able to intercept it . 
There was an evil smile upon the former's thin lips . 
Politics , the sea , amusements , religion , each was in turn discussed . 
I remained a silent though an interested listener . 
It struck me that no harm could be done by introducing the subject which was ever in my mind . 
It could be managed in an off hand way , and would at least have the effect of turning the Captain's thoughts in that direction . 
I could watch , too , what effect it would have upon the faces of the conspirators . 
There was a sudden lull in the conversation . 
The ordinary subjects of interest appeared to be exhausted . 
The opportunity was a favourable one . 
They are poor cowardly things , he said , as silly as they are wicked . 
The impotent threats of a set of anonymous scoundrels , said a pompous looking old gentleman beside him . 
O Captain ! said the fat lady at my side , you don't really think they would blow up a ship ? I have no doubt they would if they could . 
But I am very sure they shall never blow up mine . 
May I ask what precautions are taken against them ? asked an elderly man at the end of the table . 
All goods sent aboard the ship are strictly examined , said Captain Dowie . 
But suppose a man brought explosives aboard with him ? I suggested . 
They are too cowardly to risk their own lives in that way . 
During this conversation Flannigan had not betrayed the slightest interest in what was going on . 
He raised his head now and looked at the Captain . 
Don't you think you are rather underrating them ? he said . 
It seemed right enough to German eyes why shouldn't dynamite seem so to the Fenian ? At any rate their empty vapourings have led to nothing as yet , said the Captain . 
Then they lied , said the Captain . 
During this little discussion Flannigan had argued his point with a gentlemanly deference and a quiet power for which I had not given him credit . 
I could not help admiring a man who , on the eve of a desperate enterprise , could courteously argue upon a point which must touch him so nearly . 
He did not join in the conversation again , but seemed to be lost in thought . 
A whirl of conflicting ideas was battling in my own mind . 
After all there might be some mistake . 
Dick had heard the evidence and had refused to believe in it . 
I determined to let things go on their course . 
A strange reckless feeling came over me . 
Why should I help men who were blind to their own danger ? Surely it was the duty of the officers to protect us , not ours to give warning to them . 
I drank off a couple of glasses of wine , and staggered upon deck with the determination of keeping my secret locked in my own bosom . 
It was a glorious evening . 
Even in my excited state of mind I could not help leaning against the bulwarks and enjoying the refreshing breeze . 
Away to the westward a solitary sail stood out as a dark speck against the great sheet of flame left by the setting sun . 
I shuddered as I looked at it . 
It was grand but appalling . 
A single star was twinkling faintly above our mainmast , but a thousand seemed to gleam in the water below with every stroke of our propeller . 
The only blot in the fair scene was the great trail of smoke which stretched away behind us like a black slash upon a crimson curtain . 
It was hard to believe that the great peace which hung over all Nature could be marred by a poor miserable mortal . 
A man's life seems a very paltry thing amid the great forces of Nature . 
It was a relief to me when Dick came on deck . 
Even an incredulous confidant is better than none at all . 
Well , old man , he said , giving me a facetious dig in the ribs , we've not been blown up yet . 
No , not yet , said I but that's no proof that we are not going to be . 
Nonsense , man ! said Dick I can't conceive what has put this extraordinary idea into your head . 
I have been talking to one of your supposed assassins , and he seems a pleasant fellow enough quite a sporting character , I should think , from the way he speaks . 
You are right , I said I will . 
My absurd timidity has prevented my doing so sooner . 
I believe our lives can only be saved by laying the whole matter before him . 
Well , go and do it now , said Dick but for goodness' sake don't mix me up in the matter . 
I'll speak to him when he comes off the bridge , I answered and in the meantime I don't mean to lose sight of them . 
Let me know of the result , said my companion and with a nod he strolled away in search , I fancy , of his partner at the dinner table . 
Left to myself , I bethought me of my retreat of the morning , and climbing on the bulwark I mounted into the quarter boat , and lay down there . 
In it I could reconsider my course of action , and by raising my head I was able at any time to get a view of my disagreeable neighbours . 
An hour passed , and the Captain was still on the bridge . 
He was talking to one of the passengers , a retired naval officer , and the two were deep in debate concerning some abstruse point in navigation . 
I could see the red tips of their cigars from where I lay . 
It was dark now , so dark that I could hardly make out the figures of Flannigan and his accomplice . 
They were still standing in the position which they had taken up after dinner . 
A few of the passengers were scattered about the deck , but many had gone below . 
A strange stillness seemed to pervade the air . 
The voices of the watch and the rattle of the wheel were the only sounds which broke the silence . 
The Captain was still upon the bridge . 
It seemed as if he would never come down . 
My nerves were in a state of unnatural tension , so much so that the sound of two steps upon the deck made me start up in a quiver of excitement . 
I peered over the edge of the boat , and saw that our suspicious passengers had crossed from the other side , and were standing almost directly beneath me . 
The light of a binnacle fell full upon the ghastly face of the ruffian Flannigan . 
Even in that short glance I saw that Muller had the ulster , whose use I knew so well , slung loosely over his arm . 
I sank back with a groan . 
It seemed that my fatal procrastination had sacrificed two hundred innocent lives . 
I had read of the fiendish vengeance which awaited a spy . 
I knew that men with their lives in their hands would stick at nothing . 
All I could do was to cower at the bottom of the boat and listen silently to their whispered talk below . 
This place will do , said a voice . 
Yes , the leeward side is best . 
I wonder if the trigger will act ? I am sure it will . 
We were to let it off at ten , were we not ? Yes , at ten sharp . 
We have eight minutes yet . 
Then the voice began again They'll hear the drop of the trigger , won't they ? It doesn't matter . 
It will be too late for any one to prevent its going off . 
There will be some excitement among those we have left behind , won't there ? Rather . 
How long do you reckon it will be before they hear of us ? The first news will get in at about midnight at earliest . 
That will be my doing . 
Ha , ha ! we'll settle that . 
There was a pause here . 
Then I heard Muller's voice in a ghastly whisper , There's only five minutes more . 
How slowly the moments seemed to pass ! I could count them by the throbbing of my heart . 
It'll make a sensation on land , said a voice . 
Yes , it will make a noise in the newspapers . 
I raised my head and peered over the side of the boat . 
There seemed no hope , no help . 
Death stared me in the face , whether I did or did not give the alarm . 
The Captain had at last left the bridge . 
The deck was deserted , save for those two dark figures crouching in the shadow of the boat . 
Flannigan had a watch lying open in his hand . 
Three minutes more , he said . 
Put it down upon the deck . 
No , put it here on the bulwarks . 
It was the little square box . 
I knew by the sound that they had placed it near the davit , and almost exactly under my head . 
Flannigan was pouring something out of a paper into his hand . 
It was white and granular the same that I had seen him use in the morning . 
It was meant as a fuse , no doubt , for he shovelled it into the little box , and I heard the strange noise which had previously arrested my attention . 
A minute and a half more , he said . 
Shall you or I pull the string ? I will pull it , said Muller . 
He was kneeling down and holding the end in his hand . 
Flannigan stood behind with his arms folded , and an air of grim resolution upon his face . 
I could stand it no longer . 
My nervous system seemed to give way in a moment . 
Stop ! I screamed , springing to my feet . 
Stop misguided and unprincipled men ! They both staggered backwards . 
I fancy they thought I was a spirit , with the moonlight streaming down upon my pale face . 
I was brave enough now . 
I had gone too far to retreat . 
Cain was damned , I cried , and he slew but one would you have the blood of two hundred upon your souis ? He's mad ! said Flannigan . 
Let it off , Muller . 
I sprang down upon the deck . 
You shan't do it ! I said . 
By what right do you prevent us ? By every right , human and divine . 
It's no business of yours . 
Never ! said I. Confound the fellow ! There's too much at stake to stand on ceremony . 
I'll hold him , Muller , while you pull the trigger . 
Next moment I was struggling in the herculean grasp of the Irishman . 
Resistance was useless I was a child in his hands . 
He pinned me up against the side of the vessel , and held me there . 
Now , he said , look sharp . 
I felt that I was standing on the verge of eternity . 
Half strangled in the arms of the taller ruffian , I saw the other approach the fatal box . 
He stooped over it and seized the string . 
I breathed one prayer when I saw his grasp tighten upon it . 
Then came a sharp snap , a strange rasping noise . 
The trigger had fallen , the side of the box flew out , and let off TWO GREY CARRIER PIGEONS ! Little more need be said . 
It is not a subject on which I care to dwell . 
The whole thing is too utterly disgusting and absurd . 
Perhaps the best thing I can do is to retire gracefully from the scene , and let the sporting correspondent of the New York Herald fill my unworthy place . 
Here is an extract clipped from its columns shortly after our departure from America Pigeon flying Extraordinary . 
A novel match has been brought off last week between the birds of John H. Flannigan , of Boston , and Jeremiah Muller , a well known citizen of Lowell . 
Both men have devoted much time and attention to an improved breed of bird , and the challenge is an old standing one . 
The pigeons were backed to a large amount , and there was considerable local interest in the result . 
The bird which reached home first was to be declared the winner . 
Considerable caution had , we believe , to be observed , as some captains have a prejudice against the bringing off of sporting events aboard their vessels . 
In spite of some little difficulty at the last moment , the trap was sprung almost exactly at ten o'clock . 
Muller's bird arrived in Lowell in an extreme state of exhaustion on the following morning , while Flannigan's has not been heard of . 
The backers of the latter have the satisfaction of knowing , however , that the whole affair has been characterised by extreme fairness . 
The pigeons were confined in a specially invented trap , which could only be opened by the spring . 
It was thus possible to feed them through an aperture in the top , but any tampering with their wings was quite out of the question . 
The customer is robbed of it by two scoundrels who quarrel over the booty . 
One slays the other , and perishes himself upon the scaffold . 
Here is a direct chain of events with a sick mollusc for its first link , and a gallows for its last one . 
Within a few months the result of this new competition was an abrupt fall of prices in the trade , which was serious for the largest firms and disastrous for the smaller ones . 
A few old established houses held on as they were , others reduced their establishments and cut down their expenses , while one or two put up their shutters and confessed themselves beaten . 
In this last unfortunate category was the ancient and respected firm of Fairbairn Brothers of Brisport . 
Several causes had led up to this disaster , though Don Diego's debut as a corkcutter had brought matters to a head . 
When a couple of generations back the original Fairbairn had founded the business , Brisport was a little fishing town with no outlet or occupation for her superfluous population . 
Men were glad to have safe and continuous work upon any terms . 
All this was altered now , for the town was expanding into the centre of a large district in the west , and the demand for labour and its remuneration had proportionately increased . 
It was a murky , foggy Saturday afternoon in November when the hands were paid for the last time , and the old building was to be finally abandoned . 
Mr. Charles Fairbairn had not expected this , and it embarrassed him . 
He stroked his thin cheek nervously with his long white fingers , and looked down with weak watery eyes at the mosaic of upturned serious faces . 
I am sorry that we have to part , my men , he said at last in a crackling voice . 
It's a bad day for all of us , and for Brisport too . 
For three years we have been losing money over the works . 
We held on in the hope of a change coming , but matters are going from bad to worse . 
There's nothing for it but to give it up before the balance of our fortune is swallowed up . 
I hope you may all be able to get work of some sort before very long . 
Good bye , and God bless you ! God bless you , sir ! God bless you ! cried a chorus of rough voices . 
Three cheers for Mr. Charles Fairbairn ! shouted a bright eyed , smart young fellow , springing up upon a bench and waving his peaked cap in the air . 
The crowd responded to the call , but their huzzas wanted the true ring which only a joyous heart can give . 
Huxford , said the cashier , touching on the shoulder the young fellow who had led the cheering the governor wants to speak to you . 
Ah , John ! said Mr. Fairbairn , coming suddenly out of his reverie and taking up a letter from the table . 
You have been in my service since you were a boy , and you have shown that you merited the trust which I have placed in you . 
From what I have heard I think I am right in saying that this sudden want of work will affect your plans more than it will many of my other hands . 
I was to be married at Shrovetide , the man answered , tracing a pattern upon the table with his horny forefinger . 
I'll have to find work first . 
And work , my poor fellow , is by no means easy to find . 
You see you have been in this groove all your life , and are unfit for anything else . 
It's true you've been my foreman , but even that won't help you , for the factories all over England are discharging hands , and there's not a vacancy to be had . 
It's a bad outlook for you and such as you . 
What would you advise , then , sir ? asked John Huxford . 
That's what I was coming to . 
I have a letter here from Sheridan and Moore , of Montreal , asking for a good hand to take charge of a workroom . 
If you think it will suit you , you can go out by the next boat . 
The wages are far in excess of anything which I have been able to give you . 
Why , sir , this is real kind of you , the young workman said earnestly . 
She my girl Mary , will be as grateful to you as I am . 
But , sir , with your leave I'd like to speak to her about it before I made up my mind . 
Could you leave it open for a few hours ? The mail goes out to morrow , Mr. Fairbairn answered . 
If you decide to accept you can write tonight . 
Here is their letter , which will give you their address . 
John Huxford took the precious paper with a grateful heart . 
An hour ago his future had been all black , but now this rift of light had broken in the west , giving promise of better things . 
With a scrape and a bow , he turned on his heel , and plunged out into the foggy street . 
At the door of one of these the young man tapped , and then without waiting for a response , pressed down the latch and walked in . 
An old silvery haired woman and a young girl hardly out of her teens were sitting on either side of the fire , and the latter sprang to her feet as he entered . 
You've got some good news , John , she cried , putting her hands upon his shoulders , and looking into his eyes . 
I can tell it from your step . 
Mr. Fairbairn is going to carry on after all . 
But poor granny , how is she to cross the seas ? Oh , never mind about me , the old woman broke in cheerfully . 
I'll be no drag on you . 
Of course we shall need you , granny , John Huxford said , with a cheery laugh . 
Besides , Mary , it's the same speech out there , and the same king and the same flag it's not like a foreign country . 
No , of course not , Mary answered with conviction . 
She was an orphan with no living relation save her old grandmother , and no thought in life but to make a helpful and worthy wife to the man she loved . 
Where these two were she could not fail to find happiness . 
I knew you would both be of the same mind as myself , but of course I couldn't close with the offer until we had talked it over . 
I can get started in a week or two , and then in a couple of months I'll have all ready for you on the other side . 
It will be a weary , weary time until we hear from you , dear John , said Mary , clasping his hand but it's God's will , and we must be patient . 
You can sit at the table and write the letter which is to take the three of us across the Atlantic . 
Strange how Don Diego's thoughts were moulding human lives in the little Devon village . 
In a very few days his scanty outfit was completed , and he started off in a coasting vessel for Liverpool , where he was to catch the passenger ship for Quebec . 
If things should chance to turn out badly over there , we have always a roof to cover us . 
There you will find me until you send word to us to come . 
And that will be very soon , my lass , he answered cheerfully , with a last embrace . 
Good bye , granny , good bye . 
From Liverpool the old woman and her granddaughter received a letter from John announcing that he was just starting in the barque St . 
Lawrence , and six weeks afterwards a second longer epistle informed them of his safe arrival at Quebec , and gave them his first impressions of the country . 
After that a long unbroken silence set in . 
Week after week and month after month passed by , and never a word came from across the seas . 
A year went over their heads , and yet another , but no news of the absentee . 
Among the shrewd west country neighbours there had long , however , ceased to be any mystery in the matter . 
Huxford arrived safely in Canada so much was proved by his letter . 
Why he should do this no one professed to know , but that he had done it appeared only too probable from the facts . 
It happened , however , that the house on which the unfortunate youth had pitched was one which was notorious for the character of its inmates . 
He had been directed to it by a pimp , who found regular employment in hanging about the docks and decoying new comers to this den . 
He contented himself with staying out all day , and associating as little as possible with the other inmates . 
With a bound he sprang out of bed , and seizing the fellow nearest him by the collar , he slung him through the open doorway . 
His brother rushed at him , but the young Devonshire man met him with such a facer that he dropped in a heap upon the ground . 
Unfortunately , the violence of the blow caused him to overbalance himself , and , tripping over his prostrate antagonist , he came down heavily upon his face . 
Before he could rise , the old hag sprang upon his back and clung to him , shrieking to her son to bring the poker . 
You've hit too hard , Joe , said the old woman , looking down at the prostrate figure . 
I heard the bone go . 
If I hadn't fetched him down he'd ha' been too many for us , said the young villain sulkily . 
Still , you might ha' done it without killing him , clumsy , said his mother . 
She had had a large experience of such scenes , and knew the difference between a stunning blow and a fatal one . 
He's still breathing , the other said , examining him the back o' his head's like a bag o' dice though . 
What are we to do ? He'll never come to himself again , the other brother remarked . 
Look at my face ! Let's see , mother who's in the house ? Only four drunk sailors . 
They wouldn't turn out for any noise . 
It's all quiet in the street . 
Let's carry him down a bit , Joe , and leave him there . 
He can die there , and no one think the worse of us . 
Take all the papers out of his pocket , then , the mother suggested they might help the police to trace him . 
His watch , too , and his money L odd better than nothing . 
Now carry him softly and don't slip . 
Kicking off their shoes , the two brothers carried the dying man down stairs and along the deserted street for a couple of hundred yards . 
There they laid him among the snow , where he was found by the night patrol , who carried him on a shutter to the hospital . 
Twelve hours passed , however , and yet another twelve , but John Huxford still struggled hard for his life . 
The surgeons were summoned to behold the phenomenon , and warmly congratulated each other upon the success of their treatment . 
You have been on the brink of the grave , my man , said one of them , pressing the bandaged head back on to the pillow you must not excite yourself . 
What is your name ? No answer , save a wild stare . 
Where do you come from ? Again no answer . 
He is mad , one suggested . 
Or a foreigner , said another . 
There were no papers on him when he came in . 
His linen is marked J. H. Let us try him in French and German . 
For many weeks John lay in the hospital , and for many weeks efforts were made to gain some clue as to his antecedents , but in vain . 
The man's memory of his whole life before the fatal blow was entirely and absolutely erased . 
He neither knew his name , his language , his home , his business , nor anything else . 
During the weary months of his convalescence he picked up reading and writing , but with the return of his strength came no return of his former life . 
England , Devonshire , Brisport , Mary , Granny the words brought no recollection to his mind . 
At last he was discharged , a friendless , tradeless , penniless man , without a past , and with very little to look to in the future . 
His very name was altered , for it had been necessary to invent one . 
John Huxford had passed away , and John Hardy took his place among mankind . 
Here was a strange outcome of a Spanish gentleman's tobacco inspired meditations . 
John's case had aroused some discussion and curiosity in Quebec , so that he was not suffered to drift into utter helplessness upon emerging from the hospital . 
From the factory he was promoted into the counting house , and the year found him a junior clerk at a salary of L a year . 
Steadily and surely John Hardy fought his way upward from post to post , with his whole heart and mind devoted to the business . 
In he was third clerk , in he was second , and in he became manager of the whole vast establishment , and second only to Mr. M Kinlay himself . 
There were few who grudged John this rapid advancement , for it was obviously due to neither chance nor favouritism , but entirely to his marvellous powers of application and industry . 
He signalised his promotion to the managership by a donation of L to the hospital in which he had been treated a quarter of a century before . 
On one occasion he had , in the interests of the firm , to journey to Quebec , and to visit the very cork factory which had tempted him to leave England . 
His companion picked it out of his hand and examined it with the eye of an expert . 
This is not the first cork which you have cut by many a hundred , Mr. Hardy , he remarked . 
Indeed you are wrong , John answered , smiling I never cut one before in my life . 
Impossible ! cried the foreman . 
Here's another bit of cork . 
John did his best to repeat the performance , but the brains of the manager interfered with the trained muscles of the corkcutter . 
The latter had not forgotten their cunning , but they needed to be left to themselves , and not directed by a mind which knew nothing of the matter . 
Instead of the smooth graceful shape , he could produce nothing but rough hewn clumsy cylinders . 
His hair , too , after many years of iron grey , had finally become as white as the winters of his adopted country . 
The Franco German War came round , and while the two great rivals were destroying each other , their more peaceful neighbours were quietly ousting them out of their markets and their commerce . 
Many English ports benefited by this condition of things , but none more than Brisport . 
All these extensions had made Brisport the centre of a busy trade , and her ships found their way into every harbour in the world . 
Hence it was no wonder , especially in that very busy year of , that several Brisport vessels were lying in the river and alongside the wharves of Quebec . 
It was only some commonplace order that was bawled out , but the sound fell upon the old man's ears with a strange mixture of disuse and familiarity . 
He stood by the vessel and heard the seamen at their work , all speaking with the same broad , pleasant jingling accent . 
Then he rose , and walking along to the stern he read the name of the ship , The Sunlight , Brisport . 
Brisport ! Again that flush and tingle through every nerve . 
Early next morning he was up and down on the wharf listening to the talk of the west country sailors . 
Every word they spoke seemed to him to revive his memory and bring him nearer to the light . 
From time to time they paused in their work , and seeing the white haired stranger sitting so silently and attentively , they laughed at him and broke little jests upon him . 
So he sat through the long day , bathing himself in the west country speech , and waiting for the light to break . 
So John asked him to be seated on a log by his side , and began to put many questions to him about the country from which he came , and the town . 
Look here , man , he said , in a low quick whisper . 
Answer me truly as you hope for mercy . 
Within a few days he realised a portion of his property , and starting for New York , caught the first mail steamer to England . 
It was only by this unceasing exercise , by wearing down his vitality until fatigue brought lethargy , that he could prevent himself from falling into a very frenzy of despair . 
He hardly dared ask himself what was the object of this wild journey ? What did he expect ? Would Mary be still alive ? She must be a very old woman . 
If he could but see her and mingle his tears with hers he would be content . 
Let her only know that it had been no fault of his , and that they had both been victims to the same cruel fate . 
The cottage was her own , and she had said that she would wait for him there until she heard from him . 
Poor lass , she had never reckoned on such a wait as this . 
But was it the same town ? Were it not for the name engraved all over the station and on the hotels , John might have found a difficulty in believing it . 
The broad , well paved streets , with the tram lines laid down the centre , were very different from the narrow winding lanes which he could remember . 
The spot upon which the station had been built was now the very centre of the town , but in the old days it would have been far out in the fields . 
In every direction , lines of luxurious villas branched away in streets and crescents bearing names which were new to the exile . 
Great warehouses , and long rows of shops with glittering fronts , showed him how enormously Brisport had increased in wealth as well as in dimensions . 
It was only when he came upon the old High Street that John began to feel at home . 
It was much altered , but still it was recognisable , and some few of the buildings were just as he had left them . 
There was the place where Fairbairn's cork works had been . 
It was now occupied by a great brand new hotel . 
And there was the old grey Town Hall . 
The wanderer turned down beside it , and made his way with eager steps but a sinking heart in the direction of the line of cottages which he used to know so well . 
It was not difficult for him to find where they had been . 
The sea at least was as of old , and from it he could tell where the cottages had stood . 
But alas , where were they now ! In their place an imposing crescent of high stone houses reared their tall front to the beach . 
Brown hair had become white , and fishing hamlets had changed into cities , but busy hands and a faithful heart had kept granny's cottage unchanged and ready for the wanderer . 
An old fisherman was perched at one end of it , smoking his black clay pipe , and he remarked upon the wan face and sad eyes of the stranger . 
You have overtired yourself , he said . 
It doesn't do for old chaps like you and me to forget our years . 
I'm better now , thank you , John answered . 
That woman , if you'll believe me , has been offered the price of the cottage ten times over , and yet she won't part with it . 
And why was that ? asked John . 
Well , that's just the funny part of it . 
It's all on account of a mistake . 
Why , if the fellow were alive he would be as old as you , but I've no doubt he's dead long ago . 
She's well quit of him , for he must have been a scamp to abandon her as he did . 
Oh , he abandoned her , did he ? Yes went off to the States , and never so much as sent a word to bid her good bye . 
It was a cruel shame , it was , for the girl has been a waiting and a pining for him ever since . 
It's my belief that it's fifty years' weeping that blinded her . 
She is blind ! cried John , half rising to his feet . 
Worse than that , said the fisherman . 
She's mortal ill , and not expected to live . 
Why , look ye , there's the doctor's carriage a waiting at her door . 
At this evil tidings old John sprang up and hurried over to the cottage , where he met the physician returning to his brougham . 
How is your patient , doctor ? he asked in a trembling voice . 
Very bad , very bad , said the man of medicine pompously . 
Can you tell me , my man , if this is where the sick woman is ? he asked . 
John nodded , and the clergyman passed in , leaving the door half open . 
The wanderer waited until he had gone into the inner room , and then slipped into the front parlour , where he had spent so many happy hours . 
He stood irresolute , looking about him , until he heard a woman's voice from the inner chamber , and stealing to the door he peeped in . 
The invalid was reclining upon a couch , propped up with pillows , and her face was turned full towards John as he looked round the door . 
Her calm , eventless , unselfish life had left none of those rude traces upon her countenance which are the outward emblems of internal conflict and an unquiet soul . 
A chaste melancholy had refined and softened her expression , and her loss of sight had been compensated for by that placidity which comes upon the faces of the blind . 
You will keep a tenant in the cottage , she was saying to the clergyman , who sat with his back turned to the observer . 
Choose some poor deserving folk in the parish who will be glad of a home free . 
Don't let him know that I ever fretted , or he may fret too . 
It is hard to say how long they rejoiced together . 
Now stand up , John , and I will let the gentleman see how well I remember you . 
He is as tall , sir , as the second shelf , as straight as an arrow , his face brown , and his eyes bright and clear . 
His hair is well nigh black , and his moustache the same I shouldn't wonder if he had whiskers as well by this time . 
No special license for me , John had said sturdily . 
It looks as if we were ashamed of what we are doing , as though we hadn't the best right to be married of any two folk in the parish . 
We may not have very long in this world , said old John , but at least we shall start fair and square in the next . 
It was decided , however , that on his producing two trustworthy witnesses to his identity all would be right , so the property was duly realised and produced a very handsome fortune . 
From my boyhood I have had an intense and overwhelming conviction that my real vocation lay in the direction of literature . 
I have , however , had a most unaccountable difficulty in getting any responsible person to share my views . 
Had my manuscripts been paper boomerangs they could not have returned with greater accuracy to their unhappy dispatcher . 
From the age of seventeen to that of three and twenty I was a literary volcano in a constant state of eruption . 
Poems and tales , articles and reviews , nothing came amiss to my pen . 
Poetry and romance , however , had always the greatest attractions for me . 
Even when condemned to the prosaic duties which fell to my lot in the office , I continued faithful to my first love . 
I have introduced pieces of word painting into the most commonplace business letters which have , I am told , considerably astonished the recipients . 
My refined sarcasm has made defaulting creditors writhe and wince . 
Occasionally , like the great Silas Wegg , I would drop into poetry , and so raise the whole tone of the correspondence . 
Thus what could be more elegant than my rendering of the firm's instructions to the captain of one of their vessels . 
It ran in this way From England , Captain , you must steer a Course directly to Madeira , Land the casks of salted beef , Then away to Teneriffe . 
Pray be careful , cool , and wary With the merchants of Canary . 
When you leave them make the most Of the trade winds to the coast . 
Down it you shall sail as far As the land of Calabar , And from there you'll onward go To Bonny and Fernando Po and so on for four pages . 
I was looking round for some weeks . 
I had just accomplished the task of reading through the majority of the standard novels at the time when my narrative commences . 
Both my pulse and my temperature were , as far as I know , normal at the time . 
We live in a scientific age , and I flatter myself that I move with the times . 
Round this colossal mahogany were seated a great number of people who were talking earnestly together , and the surface in front of them was strewn with books and pamphlets . 
There were two or three women in the company . 
Egad ! exclaimed a rough , weather beaten man , who was smoking a long churchwarden pipe at my end of the table , my heart softens for him . 
Why , gossips , we've been in the same straits ourselves . 
Gadzooks , never did mother feel more concern for her eldest born than I when Rory Random went out to make his own way in the world . 
Right , Tobias , right ! cried another man , seated at my very elbow . 
By my troth , I lost more flesh over poor Robin on his island , than had I the sweating sickness twice told . 
The tale was well nigh done when in swaggers my Lord of Rochester a merry gallant , and one whose word in matters literary might make or mar . 
How now , Defoe , quoth he , hast a tale on hand ? Even so , your lordship , I returned . 
A right merry one , I trust , quoth he . 
Discourse unto me concerning thy heroine , a comely lass , Dan , or I mistake . 
Nay , I replied , there is no heroine in the matter . 
Split not your phrases , quoth he thou weighest every word like a scald attorney . 
Speak to me of thy principal female character , be she heroine or no . 
My lord , I answered , there is no female character . 
Then out upon thyself and thy book too ! he cried . 
Yet there are a thousand now who have read of Robin and his man Friday , to one who has heard of my Lord of Rochester . 
Very true , Defoe , said a genial looking man in a red waistcoat , who was sitting at the modern end of the table . 
But all this won't help our good friend Smith in making a start at his story , which , I believe , was the reason why we assembled . 
You would make a pun if you were hanged for it . 
That would be a case of haltering , returned the other , on which everybody laughed again . 
By this time I had begun to dimly realise in my confused brain the enormous honour which had been done me . 
The greatest masters of fiction in every age of English letters had apparently made a rendezvous beneath my roof , in order to assist me in my difficulties . 
Never before , probably , had such an assemblage of choice spirits gathered under one roof . 
Na , na ! cried Sir Walter I'll do my share , but there's Chairlie over there as full o' wut as a Radical's full o' treason . 
He's the laddie to give a cheery opening to it . 
, he placed me on board as supercargo to look after his interests , and despatched us upon our voyage . 
We had a fair wind as far as Cape de Verde , and there , getting into the north west trade winds , made good progress down the African coast . 
For several weeks I was borne away in this manner , until one morning , to my inexpressible joy , I sighted an island upon the starboard quarter . 
A second edition , whispered Lawrence Sterne to his neighbour Gulliver served up cold . 
Did you speak , sir ? asked the Dean very sternly , having evidently overheard the remark . 
My words were not addressed to you , sir , answered Sterne , looking rather frightened . 
They were none the less insolent , roared the Dean . 
Among the quartermasters of the Lightning there was one named Jedediah Anchorstock , whose appearance was so remarkable that it quickly attracted the attention of our hero . 
He was a man of about fifty , dark with exposure to the weather , and so tall that as he came along the 'tween decks he had to bend himself nearly double . 
When the quartermaster came down from his watch our hero met him at the door of his berth with an agitated face . 
Mr. Anchorstock , said he , can it be that your wife is on board ? Wife ! roared the astonished sailor . 
Ye white faced swab , what d'ye mean ? If she's not here in the ship it must be her ghost , said Cyprian , shaking his head gloomily . 
My Poll is moored head and starn , behind the point at Portsmouth , more'n two thousand mile away . 
Upon my word , said our hero , very earnestly , I saw a female look out of your cabin not five minutes ago . 
Ay , ay , Mr. Anchorstock , joined in several of the conspirators . 
We all saw her a spanking looking craft with a dead light mounted on one side . 
Sure enough , said Anchorstock , staggered by this accumulation of evidence , my Polly's starboard eye was doused for ever by long Sue Williams of the Hard . 
It chanced shortly after this to be the king's birthday , an event which was signalised aboard the Lightening by the death of the commander under singular circumstances . 
On this occasion word had been secretly passed round for every man to slip a slug into his firelock , instead of the blank cartridge provided . 
On the boatswain blowing his whistle the men mustered upon deck and formed line , whilst the captain , standing well in front of them , delivered a few words to them . 
So accurate was the aim and so short the distance , that more than five hundred bullets struck him simultaneously , blowing away his head and a large portion of his body . 
By his pleasantries and the natural charm of his manners our hero so far won the good wishes of the ship's company that they parted with infinite regret upon their arrival in England . 
Filial duty , however , urged him to return home and report himself to his father , with which object he posted from Portsmouth to London , intending to proceed thence to Shropshire . 
Do you , Sir Walter , give us a touch of the Wizard of the North . 
With these words Smollett produced a pipe , and filling it at Defoe's tobacco pot , waited patiently for the continuation of the story . 
Travelling was particularly dangerous at that time , for besides the usual perils which beset wayfarers , the southern parts of England were in a lawless and disturbed state which bordered on insurrection . 
Reining up his horse within a few yards of the ambuscade , he wrapped his cloak round his bridle arm and summoned the party to stand forth . 
What ho , my masters ! he cried . 
Are beds so scarce , then , that ye must hamper the high road of the king with your bodies ? Now , by St . 
Who is this swashbuckler who summons his Majesty's lieges from their repose ? A very soldado , o' truth . 
As to your threats , they turn from my mind as your caitiffly weapons would shiver upon my hauberk from Milan . 
But we lure not hawks with empty hands . 
Look ye , sir , there is game afoot which it may need such bold hunters as thyself to follow . 
Prudence , mingled with a large share of curiosity , eventually carried the day , and dismounting from his horse , he intimated that he was ready to follow his captors . 
Spoken like a man ! cried he whom they addressed as Allen . 
Jack Cade will be right glad of such a recruit . 
Hadst thou been alone it might indeed have been so , perchance , but an expert swordsman can disarm at pleasure such a one as this young knight . 
Well I remember in the Palatinate how I clove to the chine even such another the Baron von Slogstaff . 
Agnes save us ! who comes here ? The apparition which frightened the loquacious little man was sufficiently strange to cause a qualm even in the bosom of the knight . 
Now out upon thee , Thomas Allen , and foul be thy fate if thou hast abandoned thy post without good and sufficient cause . 
Anselm of the Holy Grove , thou hadst best have never been born than rouse my spleen this night . 
Methought that some word of thanks were meet reward for such service , rather than taunt or threat . 
Nay , take it not to heart , bold Allen , exclaimed their leader , who was none other than the great Jack Cade himself . 
Thou knowest of old that my temper is somewhat choleric , and my tongue not greased with that unguent which oils the mouths of the lip serving lords of the land . 
I am ready to do aught which may become a knight and a gentleman , said the soldier stoutly . 
Taxes shall be swept away ! cried Cade excitedly the impost and the anpost the tithe and the hundred tax . 
The poor man's salt box and flour bin shall be as free as the nobleman's cellar . 
Ha ! what sayest thou ? It is but just , said our hero . 
Ay , but they give us such justice as the falcon gives the leveret ! roared the orator . 
Ne'er a word more will ye get frae me to help him one way or the other . 
Excuse me , he said , but I fancy that I may be able to do something here . 
Some of my humble productions have been said to excel Sir Walter at his best , and I was undoubtedly stronger all round . 
I could picture modern society as well as ancient and as to my plays , why Shakespeare never came near The Lady of Lyons' for popularity . 
Ah ! that's a report of mine , when I was in India ! Here it is . 
No , this is one of my speeches in the House , and this is my criticism on Tennyson . 
Didn't I warm him up ? I can't find what I wanted , but of course you have read them all Rienzi , and Harold , and The Last of the Barons . 
Every schoolboy knows them by heart , as poor Macaulay would have said . 
Allow me to give you a sample In spite of the gallant knight's valiant resistance the combat was too unequal to be sustained . 
His sword was broken by a slash from a brown bill , and he was borne to the ground . 
He expected immediate death , but such did not seem to be the intention of the ruffians who had captured him . 
He was placed upon the back of his own charger and borne , bound hand and foot , over the trackless moor , in the fastnesses of which the rebels secreted themselves . 
In this apartment was spread out a rough meal for the returning rebels , and our hero was thrown , still bound , into an empty outhouse , there to await his fate . 
Sir Walter had been listening with the greatest impatience to Bulwer Lytton's narrative , but when it had reached this point he broke in impatiently . 
We want a touch of your own style , man , he said . 
The animal magnetico electro hysterical biological mysterious sort of story is all your own , but at present you are just a poor copy of myself , and nothing more . 
My son , he said , turning his piercing and yet dreamy gaze upon Sir Overbeck , all things lead to nothing , and nothing is the foundation of all things . 
As the old man answered him his voice rose and fell in musical cadences , like the sighing of the east wind , while an ethereal and aromatic vapour pervaded the apartment . 
I am the eternal non ego , he answered . 
I am the concentrated negative the everlasting essence of nothing . 
You see in me that which existed before the beginning of matter many years before the commencement of time . 
I am the algebraic x which represents the infinite divisibility of a finite particle . 
Sir Overbeck felt a shudder as though an ice cold hand had been placed upon his brow . 
What is your message ? he whispered , falling prostrate before his mysterious visitor . 
To tell you that the eternities beget chaos , and that the immensities are at the mercy of the divine ananke . 
Infinitude crouches before a personality . 
The mercurial essence is the prime mover in spirituality , and the thinker is powerless before the pulsating inanity . 
It seems to me that there is little danger of any one venturing to dispute that style with you . 
It's all your own , murmured Sir Walter . 
And very pretty , too , quoth Lawrence Sterne , with a malignant grin . 
This incident amused the company so much that they laughed for several minutes without cessation . 
It might seem rash of me to say that I ascribe the death of my poor friend , John Barrington Cowles , to any preternatural agency . 
I am aware that in the present state of public feeling a chain of evidence would require to be strong indeed before the possibility of such a conclusion could be admitted . 
I shall therefore merely state the circumstances which led up to this sad event as concisely and as plainly as I can , and leave every reader to draw his own deductions . 
Perhaps there may be some one who can throw light upon what is dark to me . 
I first met Barrington Cowles when I went up to Edinburgh University to take out medical classes there . 
My landlady in Northumberland Street had a large house , and , being a widow without children , she gained a livelihood by providing accommodation for several students . 
In this manner we originated a friendship which was unmarred by the slightest disagreement up to the day of his death . 
Cowles' father was the colonel of a Sikh regiment and had remained in India for many years . 
He allowed his son a handsome income , but seldom gave any other sign of parental affection writing irregularly and briefly . 
My friend , who had himself been born in India , and whose whole disposition was an ardent tropical one , was much hurt by this neglect . 
His mother was dead , and he had no other relation in the world to supply the blank . 
Thus he came in time to concentrate all his affection upon me , and to confide in me in a manner which is rare among men . 
Even when a stronger and deeper passion came upon him , it never infringed upon the old tenderness between us . 
Cowles was a tall , slim young fellow , with an olive , Velasquez like face , and dark , tender eyes . 
I have seldom seen a man who was more likely to excite a woman's interest , or to captivate her imagination . 
His expression was , as a rule , dreamy , and even languid but if in conversation a subject arose which interested him he would be all animation in a moment . 
On such occasions his colour would heighten , his eyes gleam , and he could speak with an eloquence which would carry his audience with him . 
In spite of these natural advantages he led a solitary life , avoiding female society , and reading with great diligence . 
He was one of the foremost men of his year , taking the senior medal for anatomy , and the Neil Arnott prize for physics . 
After we came to know her my judgment was warped , so that I am curious to recollect what my unbiassed sic instincts were . 
It is hard , however , to eliminate the feelings which reason or prejudice afterwards raised in me . 
It was at the opening of the Royal Scottish Academy in the spring of . 
My poor friend was passionately attached to art in every form , and a pleasing chord in music or a delicate effect upon canvas would give exquisite pleasure to his highly strung nature . 
We had gone together to see the pictures , and were standing in the grand central salon , when I noticed an extremely beautiful woman standing at the other side of the room . 
In my whole life I have never seen such a classically perfect countenance . 
His companion was , then , I presumed , his fiancee . 
I seated myself upon the velvet settee in the centre of the room , and furtively watched the couple from behind my catalogue . 
The more I looked at her the more her beauty grew upon me . 
As I kept my eyes upon them , Reeves was called away for some reason , and the young lady was left alone . 
Suddenly , as I watched her , I saw her gaze become fixed , and , as it were , intense . 
I followed the direction of her looks , wondering what could have attracted her so strongly . 
John Barrington Cowles was standing before a picture one , I think , by Noel Paton I know that the subject was a noble and ethereal one . 
His profile was turned towards us , and never have I seen him to such advantage . 
I have said that he was a strikingly handsome man , but at that moment he looked absolutely magnificent . 
It was evident that he had momentarily forgotten his surroundings , and that his whole soul was in sympathy with the picture before him . 
His eyes sparkled , and a dusky pink shone through his clear olive cheeks . 
She glanced away at once , but his eyes remained fixed upon her for some moments . 
The picture was forgotten already , and his soul had come down to earth once more . 
We caught sight of her once or twice before we left , and each time I noticed my friend look after her . 
He made no remark , however , until we got out into the open air , and were walking arm in arm along Princes Street . 
Did you notice that beautiful woman , in the dark dress , with the white fur ? he asked . 
Yes , I saw her , I answered . 
Do you know her ? he asked eagerly . 
Have you any idea who she is ? I don't know her personally , I replied . 
But I don't mind telling you , Armitage , that I never was so taken by any one in my life . 
It wasn't the mere beauty of the face though that was perfect enough but it was the character and the intellect upon it . 
I hope , if she is engaged , that it is to some man who will be worthy of her . 
Why , I remarked , you speak quite feelingly . 
It is a clear case of love at first sight , Jack . 
However , to put your perturbed spirit at rest , I'll make a point of finding out all about her whenever I meet any fellow who is likely to know . 
Barrington Cowles thanked me , and the conversation drifted off into other channels . 
For several days neither of us made any allusion to the subject , though my companion was perhaps a little more dreamy and distraught than usual . 
I say , he began , you know Reeves , don't you ? Yes . 
What of him ? His engagement is off . 
Why , I only learned the other day that it was on . 
Oh , yes it's all off . 
His brother told me so . 
Deucedly mean of Reeves , you know , if he has backed out of it , for she was an uncommonly nice girl . 
I've seen her , I said but I don't know her name . 
She is a Miss Northcott , and lives with an old aunt of hers in Abercrombie Place . 
Nobody knows anything about her people , or where she comes from . 
She was engaged to Prescott William Prescott , who died . 
That was a very sad affair . 
The wedding day was fixed , and the whole thing looked as straight as a die when the smash came . 
What smash ? I asked , with some dim recollection of the circumstances . 
He came to Abercrombie Place one night , and stayed very late . 
No one knows exactly when he left , but about one in the morning a fellow who knew him met him walking rapidly in the direction of the Queen's Park . 
He bade him good night , but Prescott hurried on without heeding him , and that was the last time he was ever seen alive . 
Three days afterwards his body was found floating in St . 
Margaret's Loch , under St . 
No one could ever understand it , but of course the verdict brought it in as temporary insanity . 
It was very strange , I remarked . 
Yes , and deucedly rough on the poor girl , said Brodie . 
Now that this other blow has come it will quite crush her . 
So gentle and ladylike she is too ! You know her personally , then ! I asked . 
Oh , yes , I know her . 
I have met her several times . 
I could easily manage that you should be introduced to her . 
Well , I answered , it's not so much for my own sake as for a friend of mine . 
However , I don't suppose she will go out much for some little time after this . 
When she does I will take advantage of your offer . 
We shook hands on this , and I thought no more of the matter for some time . 
The next incident which I have to relate as bearing at all upon the question of Miss Northcott is an unpleasant one . 
Yet I must detail it as accurately as possible , since it may throw some light upon the sequel . 
I was determined to rescue him , for one night at least , from the company into which he had fallen . 
Holloa , Reeves ! I said . 
I'm going in your direction . 
He muttered some incoherent apology for his condition , and took my arm . 
His hand when I touched it was dry and feverish , and he started from every shadow which fell upon the pavement . 
He rambled in his speech , too , in a manner which suggested the delirium of disease rather than the talk of a drunkard . 
When I got him to his lodgings I partially undressed him and laid him upon his bed . 
His pulse at this time was very high , and he was evidently extremely feverish . 
Don't go ! he cried . 
I feel better when you are here . 
I am safe from her then . 
From her ! I said . 
From whom ? Her ! her ! he answered peevishly . 
Ah ! you don't know her . 
She is the devil ! Beautiful beautiful but the devil ! You are feverish and excited , I said . 
Try and get a little sleep . 
That's what makes me drink . 
God help me I'm half drunk now ! You are very ill , I said , putting some vinegar to his temples and you are delirious . 
You don't know what you say . 
Yes , I do , he interrupted sharply , looking up at me . 
I know very well what I say . 
I brought it upon myself . 
It is my own choice . 
But I couldn't no , by heaven , I couldn't accept the alternative . 
I couldn't keep my faith to her . 
It was more than man could do . 
I sat by the side of the bed , holding one of his burning hands in mine , and wondering over his strange words . 
I crept out of the room , and , having seen that he would be properly cared for , left the house . 
His words , however , rang in my ears for days afterwards , and assumed a deeper significance when taken with what was to come . 
My friend , Barrington Cowles , had been away for his summer holidays , and I had heard nothing of him for several months . 
I went down to meet him , and was delighted to find him looking wonderfully hearty and well . 
What ! Do you mean to say you have not heard of my engagement ? Engagement ! No ! I answered . 
However , I am delighted to hear it , and congratulate you with all my heart . 
I wonder it didn't come to your ears , he said . 
It was the queerest thing . 
You remember that girl whom we both admired so much at the Academy ? What ! I cried , with a vague feeling of apprehension at my heart . 
You don't mean to say that you are engaged to her ? I thought you would be surprised , he answered . 
Not , mind you , he added , that I consider I did a foolish or hasty thing . 
I have never regretted it for a moment . 
The more I know Kate the more I admire her and love her . 
However , you must be introduced to her , and then you will form your own opinion . 
I expressed my pleasure at the prospect , and endeavoured to speak as lightly as I could to Cowles upon the subject , but I felt depressed and anxious at heart . 
This has been suggested to me by others as an explanation of my narrative . 
They are welcome to their opinion if they can reconcile it with the facts which I have to tell . 
I went round with my friend a few days afterwards to call upon Miss Northcott . 
We were shown upstairs , where I was introduced to old Mrs. Merton , Miss Northcott's aunt , and to the young lady herself . 
She looked as beautiful as ever , and I could not wonder at my friend's infatuation . 
The poor brute was cringing up against the wall , whining piteously , and evidently completely cowed . 
So Kate , said my friend , after we had taken our seats , you have been falling out with Carlo again . 
Only a very little quarrel this time , she said , smiling charmingly . 
He is a dear , good old fellow , but he needs correction now and then . 
It would make us more careful , wouldn't it ? I acknowledged that it would . 
Why , Kate , said my friend , you are quite savage to day . 
No , Jack , she laughed . 
I'm only propounding a theory for Mr. Armitage's consideration . 
The two began to chat together about some Aberdeenshire reminiscence , and I had time to observe Mrs. Merton , who had remained silent during our short conversation . 
She was a very strange looking old lady . 
What attracted attention most in her appearance was the utter want of colour which she exhibited . 
Her hair was snow white , and her face extremely pale . 
Her lips were bloodless , and even her eyes were of such a light tinge of blue that they hardly relieved the general pallor . 
Her dress was a grey silk , which harmonised with her general appearance . 
She had a peculiar expression of countenance , which I was unable at the moment to refer to its proper cause . 
There was something mournful and depressing in the sight of her . 
I moved my chair a little nearer , and asked her how she liked Edinburgh , and whether she had been there long . 
When I spoke to her she started and looked up at me with a scared look on her face . 
Then I saw in a moment what the expression was which I had observed there . 
It was one of fear intense and overpowering fear . 
It was so marked that I could have staked my life on the woman before me having at some period of her life been subjected to some terrible experience or dreadful misfortune . 
Oh , yes , I like it , she said , in a soft , timid voice and we have been here long that is , not very long . 
We move about a great deal . 
She spoke with hesitation , as if afraid of committing herself . 
You are a native of Scotland , I presume ? I said . 
No that is , not entirely . 
We are not natives of any place . 
We are cosmopolitan , you know . 
She glanced round in the direction of Miss Northcott as she spoke , but the two were still chatting together near the window . 
Then she suddenly bent forward to me , with a look of intense earnestness upon her face , and said Don't talk to me any more , please . 
She does not like it , and I shall suffer for it afterwards . 
Please , don't do it . 
I was about to ask her the reason for this strange request , but when she saw I was going to address her , she rose and walked slowly out of the room . 
As she did so I perceived that the lovers had ceased to talk and that Miss Northcott was looking at me with her keen , grey eyes . 
You must excuse my aunt , Mr. Armitage , she said she is odd , and easily fatigued . 
Come over and look at my album . 
We spent some time examining the portraits . 
Miss Northcott's father and mother were apparently ordinary mortals enough , and I could not detect in either of them any traces of the character which showed itself in their daughter's face . 
There was one old daguerreotype , however , which arrested my attention . 
It represented a man of about the age of forty , and strikingly handsome . 
He was clean shaven , and extraordinary power was expressed upon his prominent lower jaw and firm , straight mouth . 
His eyes were somewhat deeply set in his head , however , and there was a snake like flattening at the upper part of his forehead , which detracted from his appearance . 
I almost involuntarily , when I saw the head , pointed to it , and exclaimed There is your prototype in your family , Miss Northcott . 
Do you think so ? she said . 
I am afraid you are paying me a very bad compliment . 
Uncle Anthony was always considered the black sheep of the family . 
Indeed , I answered my remark was an unfortunate one , then . 
Oh , don't mind that , she said I always thought myself that he was worth all of them put together . 
He was an officer in the Forty first Regiment , and he was killed in action during the Persian War so he died nobly , at any rate . 
Come , Jack , you are not going to die any sort of death yet , she said , tenderly taking his hand in hers . 
I could not understand the woman . 
There was such an extraordinary mixture of masculine decision and womanly tenderness about her , with the consciousness of something all her own in the background , that she fairly puzzled me . 
That , of course , he replied irritably . 
You knew that before you came ! I think she is very clever too , I remarked . 
We then walked on for some time in silence . 
She is an old fool , at length muttered Cowles . 
Who is ? I asked . 
Why , that old woman that aunt of Kate's Mrs. Merton , or whatever her name is . 
Then I knew that my poor colourless friend had been speaking to Cowles , but he never said anything more as to the nature of her communication . 
My companion went to bed early that night , and I sat up a long time by the fire , thinking over all that I had seen and heard . 
I felt that there was some mystery about the girl some dark fatality so strange as to defy conjecture . 
I thought of Prescott's interview with her before their marriage , and the fatal termination of it . 
I coupled it with poor drunken Reeves' plaintive cry , Why did she not tell me sooner ? and with the other words he had spoken . 
Then my mind ran over Mrs. Merton's warning to me , Cowles' reference to her , and even the episode of the whip and the cringing dog . 
The whole effect of my recollections was unpleasant to a degree , and yet there was no tangible charge which I could bring against the woman . 
It would be worse than useless to attempt to warn my friend until I had definitely made up my mind what I was to warn him against . 
He would treat any charge against her with scorn . 
What could I do ? How could I get at some tangible conclusion as to her character and antecedents ? No one in Edinburgh knew them except as recent acquaintances . 
She was an orphan , and as far as I knew she had never disclosed where her former home had been . 
Suddenly an idea struck me . 
I sat down at once , and , having trimmed the lamp , proceeded to write a letter to the Colonel . 
I got an answer from Leicester , where the Colonel resided , within two days . 
I have it before me as I write , and copy it verbatim . 
DEAR BOB , it said , I remember the man well . 
I was with him at Calcutta , and afterwards at Hyderabad . 
He was a curious , solitary sort of mortal but a gallant soldier enough , for he distinguished himself at Sobraon , and was wounded , if I remember right . 
He was not popular in his corps they said he was a pitiless , cold blooded fellow , with no geniality in him . 
He had some strange theories , I remember , about the power of the human will and the effects of mind upon matter . 
Ever affectionately yours , EDWARD JOYCE . 
P. S. By the way , Northcott did not fall in action . 
He was killed after peace was declared in a crazy attempt to get some of the eternal fire from the sun worshippers' temple . 
There was considerable mystery about his death . 
I read this epistle over several times at first with a feeling of satisfaction , and then with one of disappointment . 
I had come on some curious information , and yet hardly what I wanted . 
He was an eccentric man , a devil worshipper , and rumoured to have the power of the evil eye . 
Was Miss Northcott endowed with some exceptional power of the sort ? The idea grew upon me , and very shortly I had evidence which convinced me of the truth of the supposition . 
It happened that at the very time when my mind was dwelling upon this subject , I saw a notice in the paper that our town was to be visited by Dr . 
Messinger , the well known medium and mesmerist . 
Messinger was a man whose performance , such as it was , had been again and again pronounced to be genuine by competent judges . 
He was far above trickery , and had the reputation of being the soundest living authority upon the strange pseudo sciences of animal magnetism and electro biology . 
We had secured one of the side boxes , and did not arrive until after the performance had begun . 
I had hardly taken my seat before I recognised Barrington Cowles , with his fiancee and old Mrs. Merton , sitting in the third or fourth row of the stalls . 
They caught sight of me at almost the same moment , and we bowed to each other . 
I had seen all this before , however . 
What I wanted to see now was the effect of the lecturer's will when exerted upon some independent member of the audience . 
He came round to that as the concluding exhibition in his performance . 
I have shown you , he said , that a mesmerised subject is entirely dominated by the will of the mesmeriser . 
He loses all power of volition , and his very thoughts are such as are suggested to him by the master mind . 
The same end may be attained without any preliminary process . 
With these words the lecturer came to the front of the platform , and glanced over the first few rows of the stalls . 
I saw my friend give a start of surprise , and then settle down in his chair , as if to express his determination not to yield to the influence of the operator . 
Messinger was not a man whose head denoted any great brain power , but his gaze was singularly intense and penetrating . 
I was watching the scene with intense interest , when I happened to catch a glimpse of Miss Northcott's face . 
She was sitting with her eyes fixed intently upon the mesmerist , and with such an expression of concentrated power upon her features as I have never seen on any other human countenance . 
Her jaw was firmly set , her lips compressed , and her face as hard as if it were a beautiful sculpture cut out of the whitest marble . 
Her eyebrows were drawn down , however , and from beneath them her grey eyes seemed to sparkle and gleam with a cold light . 
Messinger was leaning against the table , his hand to his forehead , and the perspiration pouring down his face . 
I won't go on , he cried , addressing the audience . 
There is a stronger will than mine acting against me . 
You must excuse me for to night . 
The man was evidently ill , and utterly unable to proceed , so the curtain was lowered , and the audience dispersed , with many comments upon the lecturer's sudden indisposition . 
I waited outside the hall until my friend and the ladies came out . 
Cowles was laughing over his recent experience . 
He didn't succeed with me , Bob , he cried triumphantly , as he shook my hand . 
I think he caught a Tartar that time . 
You can't conceive what a strange feeling I had once or twice . 
All the strength seemed to have gone out of me especially just before he collapsed himself . 
I walked round with Cowles in order to see the ladies home . 
He walked in front with Mrs. Merton , and I found myself behind with the young lady . 
Did what ? she asked sharply . 
Why , mesmerised the mesmeriser I suppose that is the best way of describing the transaction . 
What a strange idea ! she said , laughing . 
You give me credit for a strong will then ? Yes , I said . 
For a dangerously strong one . 
Why dangerous ? she asked , in a tone of surprise . 
I think , I answered , that any will which can exercise such power is dangerous for there is always a chance of its being turned to bad uses . 
You would make me out a very dreadful individual , Mr. Armitage , she said and then looking up suddenly in my face You have never liked me . 
You are suspicious of me and distrust me , though I have never given you cause . 
The accusation was so sudden and so true that I was unable to find any reply to it . 
You would find that to be very bad policy . 
There was something in the way she spoke which gave an indescribable air of a threat to these few words . 
I have no power , I said , to interfere with your plans for the future . 
I cannot help , however , from what I have seen and heard , having fears for my friend . 
Fears ! she repeated scornfully . 
Pray what have you seen and heard . 
Something from Mr. Reeves , perhaps I believe he is another of your friends ? He never mentioned your name to me , I answered , truthfully enough . 
You will be sorry to hear that he is dying . 
As I said it we passed by a lighted window , and I glanced down to see what effect my words had upon her . 
She was laughing there was no doubt of it she was laughing quietly to herself . 
I could see merriment in every feature of her face . 
I feared and mistrusted the woman from that moment more than ever . 
We said little more that night . 
When we parted she gave me a quick , warning glance , as if to remind me of what she had said about the danger of interference . 
Her cautions would have made little difference to me could I have seen my way to benefiting Barrington Cowles by anything which I might say . 
But what could I say ? I might say that her former suitors had been unfortunate . 
I might say that I believed her to be a cruel hearted woman . 
I might say that I considered her to possess wonderful , and almost preternatural powers . 
And now I come to the beginning of the end . 
Hitherto much has been surmise and inference and hearsay . 
Towards the end of the winter Cowles remarked to me that he intended to marry Miss Northcott as soon as possible probably some time in the spring . 
I thanked him , and tried to shake off my apprehensions , and persuade myself that all would yet be well . 
It was about three weeks before the time fixed for the marriage , that Cowles remarked to me one evening that he feared he would be late that night . 
It was not until after my friend's departure that I suddenly recollected the mysterious interview which I had been told of as preceding the suicide of young Prescott . 
Then I thought of the ravings of poor Reeves , rendered more tragic by the fact that I had heard that very day of his death . 
I was determined to wait up for his return , so I piled some coals upon the fire and took down a novel from the shelf . 
My thoughts proved more interesting than the book , however , and I threw it on one side . 
An indefinable feeling of anxiety and depression weighed upon me . 
Twelve o'clock came , and then half past , without any sign of my friend . 
It was nearly one when I heard a step in the street outside , and then a knocking at the door . 
I was surprised , as I knew that my friend always carried a key however , I hurried down and undid the latch . 
As the door flew open I knew in a moment that my worst apprehensions had been fulfilled . 
Barrington Cowles was leaning against the railings outside with his face sunk upon his breast , and his whole attitude expressive of the most intense despondency . 
As he passed in he gave a stagger , and would have fallen had I not thrown my left arm around him . 
Supporting him with this , and holding the lamp in my other hand , I led him slowly upstairs into our sitting room . 
He sank down upon the sofa without a word . 
Now that I could get a good view of him , I was horrified to see the change which had come over him . 
His face was deadly pale , and his very lips were bloodless . 
His cheeks and forehead were clammy , his eyes glazed , and his whole expression altered . 
He looked like a man who had gone through some terrible ordeal , and was thoroughly unnerved . 
My dear fellow , what is the matter ? I asked , breaking the silence . 
Nothing amiss , I trust ? Are you unwell ? Brandy ! he gasped . 
He was usually a most abstemious man , but he took this off at a gulp without adding any water to it . 
It seemed to do him good , for the colour began to come back to his face , and he leaned upon his elbow . 
My engagement is off , Bob , he said , trying to speak calmly , but with a tremor in his voice which he could not conceal . 
Cheer up ! I answered , trying to encourage him . 
Don't get down on your luck . 
How was it ? What was it all about ? About ? he groaned , covering his face with his hands . 
If I did tell you , Bob , you would not believe it . 
He looked at me with a vacant stare , and then suddenly burst out , waving his arms A fiend ! he cried . 
I have loved her too much to speak of her as she is . 
I love her too much now . 
He lay still for some time , and I had hoped that the brandy had had the effect of sending him to sleep , when he suddenly turned his face towards me . 
Did you ever read of wehr wolves ? he asked . 
I answered that I had . 
There is a story , he said thoughtfully , in one of Marryat's books , about a beautiful woman who took the form of a wolf at night and devoured her own children . 
I wonder what put that idea into Marryat's head ? He pondered for some minutes , and then he cried out for some more brandy . 
There was a small bottle of laudanum upon the table , and I managed , by insisting upon helping him myself , to mix about half a drachm with the spirits . 
He drank it off , and sank his head once more upon the pillow . 
Anything better than that , he groaned . 
Death is better than that . 
Crime and cruelty cruelty and crime . 
I carried him into his bedroom without arousing him and making a couch for myself out of the chairs , I remained by his side all night . 
In the morning Barrington Cowles was in a high fever . 
For weeks he lingered between life and death . 
The highest medical skill of Edinburgh was called in , and his vigorous constitution slowly got the better of his disease . 
I nursed him during this anxious time but through all his wild delirium and ravings he never let a word escape him which explained the mystery connected with Miss Northcott . 
Sometimes he spoke of her in the tenderest words and most loving voice . 
At others he screamed out that she was a fiend , and stretched out his arms , as if to keep her off . 
When he came to himself he was an altered man . 
His severe illness had emaciated him greatly , but his dark eyes had lost none of their brightness . 
They shone out with startling brilliancy from under his dark , overhanging brows . 
His manner was eccentric and variable sometimes irritable , sometimes recklessly mirthful , but never natural . 
He would glance about him in a strange , suspicious manner , like one who feared something , and yet hardly knew what it was he dreaded . 
He never mentioned Miss Northcott's name never until that fatal evening of which I have now to speak . 
In an endeavour to break the current of his thoughts by frequent change of scene , I travelled with him through the highlands of Scotland , and afterwards down the east coast . 
This grim spot seemed to have such a fascination for Cowles that we engaged a room in one of the fishermen's huts , with the intention of passing a week or two there . 
I found it very dull , but the loneliness appeared to be a relief to my friend's mind . 
He lost the look of apprehension which had become habitual to him , and became something like his old self . 
His eyes became fixed and staring , as if riveted upon some approaching object , and he extended his long thin forefinger , which quivered as he pointed . 
Look there ! he cried . 
It is she ! It is she ! You see her there coming down the side of the brae . 
He gripped me convulsively by the wrist as he spoke . 
There she is , coming towards us ! Who ? I cried , straining my eyes into the darkness . 
She Kate Kate Northcott ! he screamed . 
She has come for me . 
Hold me fast , old friend . 
Don't let me go ! Hold up , old man , I said , clapping him on the shoulder . 
Pull yourself together you are dreaming there is nothing to fear . 
She is gone ! he cried , with a gasp of relief . 
No , by heaven ! there she is again , and nearer coming nearer . 
She told me she would come for me , and she keeps her word . 
Come into the house , I said . 
His hand , as I grasped it , was as cold as ice . 
Ah , I knew it ! he shouted . 
There she is , waving her arms . 
She is beckoning to me . 
I am coming , Kate I am coming ! I threw my arms around him , but he burst from me with superhuman strength , and dashed into the darkness of the night . 
I followed him , calling to him to stop , but he ran the more swiftly . 
When the moon shone out between the clouds I could catch a glimpse of his dark figure , running rapidly in a straight line , as if to reach some definite goal . 
The fishermen and I walked round the island all that night with lanterns , and examined every nook and corner without seeing a trace of my poor lost friend . 
The direction in which he had been running terminated in a rugged line of jagged cliffs overhanging the sea . 
At one place here the edge was somewhat crumbled , and there appeared marks upon the turf which might have been left by human feet . 
We lay upon our faces at this spot , and peered with our lanterns over the edge , looking down on the boiling surge two hundred feet below . 
As we lay there , suddenly , above the beating of the waves and the howling of the wind , there rose a strange wild screech from the abyss below . 
The fishermen a naturally superstitious race averred that it was the sound of a woman's laughter , and I could hardly persuade them to continue the search . 
For my own part I think it may have been the cry of some sea fowl startled from its nest by the flash of the lantern . 
However that may be , I never wish to hear such a sound again . 
And now I have come to the end of the painful duty which I have undertaken . 
I have told as plainly and as accurately as I could the story of the death of John Barrington Cowles , and the train of events which preceded it . 
I am aware that to others the sad episode seemed commonplace enough . 
Here is the prosaic account which appeared in the Scotsman a couple of days afterwards Sad Occurrence on the Isle of May . 
The Isle of May has been the scene of a sad disaster . 
The night before last he suddenly left his friend , Mr. Robert Armitage , and he has not since been heard of . 
It is almost certain that he has met his death by falling over the cliffs which surround the island . 
Mr. Cowles' health has been failing for some time , partly from over study and partly from worry connected with family affairs . 
By his death the University loses one of her most promising alumni . 
I have nothing more to add to my statement . 
I have unburdened my mind of all that I know . 
I can well conceive that many , after weighing all that I have said , will see no ground for an accusation against Miss Northcott . 
To this , I answer that they are welcome to their opinion . 
You ask me , no doubt , what my own theory is which will explain all these strange facts . 
I have none , or , at best , a dim and vague one . 
Above this , I can say nothing . 
I lay the facts soberly before the public as they came under my notice . 
I have never seen Miss Northcott since , nor do I wish to do so . 
ELIAS B. HOPKINS , THE PARSON OF JACKMAN'S GULCH . 
The Parson was another of his sobriquets , which was sufficiently distinctive in a land where the flock was scattered and the shepherds few . 
To do him justice , he never pretended to have received any preliminary training for the ministry , or any orthodox qualification to practise it . 
We were certainly in need of a regenerator at Jackman's Gulch about the beginning of . 
Times were flush then over the whole colony , but nowhere flusher than there . 
Our material prosperity had had a bad effect upon our morals . 
They were a rough , murderous crew , hardly leavened by the few respectable members of society who were scattered among them . 
Communication between Jackman's Gulch and the outside world was difficult and uncertain . 
A trusty man , named Woburn , was deputed to watch over this primitive bank . 
Once in Ballarat , it was forwarded on to Melbourne by the regular gold waggons . 
He appeared , at the time of which I write , to have forsaken his haunts in disgust , and the road could be traversed by small parties with impunity . 
After that , all restraint was at an end , and each set to work to get rid of his surplus dust with the greatest rapidity possible . 
The focus of dissipation was the rough bar , formed by a couple of hogsheads spanned by planks , which was dignified by the name of the Britannia Drinking Saloon . 
There had been a third brother , but an unfortunate misunderstanding with a customer had shortened his existence . 
He was too soft to live long , his brother Nathaniel feelingly observed , on the occasion of his funeral . 
He must needs argue first and draw after , when he might just as well have kivered his man before talkin' it over with him . 
Nat Adams had had a roadside shanty in the Gulch before the discovery of gold , and might , therefore , claim to be the oldest inhabitant . 
It was the custom of the bushmen , i . 
Liquor was never included in this agreement , and the men remained , per force , total abstainers during the whole time . 
The money was paid in a lump sum at the end of the engagement . 
When that day came round , Jimmy , the stockman , would come slouching into his master's office , cabbage tree hat in hand . 
Morning , master ! Jimmy would say . 
I guess I'll draw my cheque and ride down to town . 
You'll come back , Jimmy ? Yes , I'll come back . 
Maybe I'll be away three weeks , maybe a month . 
I want some clothes , master , and my bloomin' boots are well nigh off my feet . 
How much , Jimmy ? asks his master , taking up his pen . 
There's sixty pound screw , Jimmy answers thoughtfully and you mind , master , last March , when the brindled bull broke out o' the paddock . 
Two pound you promised me then . 
And a pound at the dipping . 
And a pound when Millar's sheep got mixed with ourn and so he goes on , for bushmen can seldom write , but they have memories which nothing escapes . 
His master writes the cheque and hands it across the table . 
Don't get on the drink , Jimmy , he says . 
Jimmy shakes his head warily as he determines that no earthly consideration will induce him to partake of any liquor until his business is over . 
This is none other than the shanty keeper , who , having observed Jimmy's manoeuvre in the distance , has taken a short cut through the bush in order to intercept him . 
Morning , Jimmy ! he cries , as the horseman comes up to him . 
Morning , mate morning ! Where are ye off to to day then ? Off to town , says Jimmy sturdily . 
No , now are you though ? You'll have bully times down there for a bit . 
Come round and have a drink at my place . 
Just by way of luck . 
No , says Jimmy , I don't want a drink . 
I tell ye I don't want one , says the stockman angrily . 
Well , ye needn't be so darned short about it . 
It's nothin' to me whether you drinks or not . 
Good mornin' , says Jimmy , and has ridden on about twenty yards when he hears the other calling on him to stop . 
See here , Jimmy ! he says , overtaking him again . 
If you'll do me a kindness when you're up in town I'd be obliged . 
What is it ? It's a letter , Jim , as I wants posted . 
Give it here , Jimmy says laconically . 
I hain't got it here . 
It's round in my caboose . 
Come round for it with me . 
It ain't more'n quarter of a mile . 
When they reach the tumble down hut the keeper asks him cheerily to dismount and to come in . 
Give me the letter , says Jimmy . 
It ain't altogether wrote yet , but you sit down here for a minute and it'll be right , and so the stockman is beguiled into the shanty . 
At last the letter is ready and handed over . 
Now , Jimmy , says the keeper , one drink at my expense before you go . 
Not a taste , says Jimmy . 
Oh , that's it , is it ? the other says in an aggrieved tone . 
You're too damned proud to drink with a poor cove like me . 
Here give us back that letter . 
I'm cursed if I'll accept a favour from a man whose too almighty big to have a drink with me . 
Well , well , mate , don't turn rusty , says Jim . 
Give us one drink an' I'm off . 
The keeper pours out about half a pannikin of raw rum and hands it to the bushman . 
The moment he smells the old familiar smell his longing for it returns , and he swigs it off at a gulp . 
His eyes shine more brightly and his face becomes flushed . 
The keeper watches him narrowly . 
You can go now , Jim , he says . 
Steady , mate , steady , says the bushman . 
I'm as good a man as you . 
If you stand a drink I can stand one too , I suppose . 
So the pannikin is replenished , and Jimmy's eyes shine brighter still . 
Now , Jimmy , one last drink for the good of the house , says the keeper , and then it's time you were off . 
The stockman has a third gulp from the pannikin , and with it all his scruples and good resolutions vanish for ever . 
Look here , he says somewhat huskily , taking his cheque out of his pouch . 
You take this , mate . 
Whoever comes along this road , ask 'em what they'll have , and tell them it's my shout . 
Let me know when the money's done . 
At last one fine morning the keeper comes to him . 
The coin's done , Jimmy , he says it's about time you made some more . 
All this , though typical of the happy go lucky manners of the inhabitants , has no direct bearing upon Jackman's Gulch , so we must return to that Arcadian settlement . 
Additions to the population there were not numerous , and such as came about the time of which I speak were even rougher and fiercer than the original inhabitants . 
In particular , there came a brace of ruffians named Phillips and Maule , who rode into camp one day , and started a claim upon the other side of the stream . 
They outgulched the Gulch in the virulence and fluency of their blasphemy , in the truculence of their speech and manner , and in their reckless disregard of all social laws . 
After their arrival the nightly proceedings at the Britannia bar and at the gambling hell behind it became more riotous than ever . 
Violent quarrels , frequently ending in bloodshed , were of constant occurrence . 
The more peaceable frequenters of the bar began to talk seriously of lynching the two strangers who were the principal promoters of disorder . 
His presence was hardly noticed at first , so insignificant was the man . 
His manner was quiet and unobtrusive , his face pale , and his figure fragile . 
He erected a small hut for himself , and started a claim close to that occupied by the two strangers who had preceded him . 
This claim was chosen with a ludicrous disregard for all practical laws of mining , and at once stamped the newcomer as being a green hand at his work . 
By degrees we got into the way of making a half pitying , half contemptuous inquiry as to how he got on . 
Day after day he returned the same reply with unvarying confidence and cheerfulness . 
It was not long before he began to show us the stuff that was in him . 
One night the proceedings were unusually violent at the drinking saloon . 
From the interior of the shanty behind there came a similar chorus . 
Maule , Phillips , and the roughs who followed them were in the ascendant , and all order and decency was swept away . 
Suddenly , amid this tumult of oaths and drunken cries , men became conscious of a quiet monotone which underlay all other sounds and obtruded itself at every pause in the uproar . 
There , mounted upon a barrel , was Elias B. Hopkins , the newest of the inhabitants of Jackman's Gulch , with a good humoured smile upon his resolute face . 
He held an open Bible in his hand , and was reading aloud a passage taken at random an extract from the Apocalypse , if I remember right . 
The little cus has got grit in him , the latter explained , rearing his bulky red shirted form between the crowd and the object of its anger . 
His ways ain't our ways , and we're all welcome to our opinions , and to sling them round from barrels or otherwise if so minded . 
We found that his parting words were no empty threat . 
Laughter , threats , chaff every weapon short of actual violence was used to deter him , but all with the same want of success . 
Soon it was found that there was a method in his proceedings . 
When silence reigned , or when the conversation was of an innocent nature , the reading ceased . 
The reading was pretty continuous during that second night , for the language of the opposition was still considerably free . 
At least it was an improvement upon the night before . 
For more than a month Elias B. Hopkins carried on this campaign . 
The monotonous drawl became unendurable , but it could only be avoided by conforming to the parson's code . 
A chronic swearer came to be looked upon with disfavour by the community , since the punishment of his transgression fell upon all . 
At the end of a fortnight the reader was silent more than half the time , and at the end of the month his position was a sinecure . 
Never was a moral revolution brought about more rapidly and more completely . 
Our parson carried his principle into private life . 
In time , an oath became a rare thing amongst us . 
Drunkenness was on the wane too . 
Casual travellers passing through the Gulch used to marvel at our state of grace , and rumours of it went as far as Ballarat , and excited much comment therein . 
There were points about our evangelist which made him especially fitted for the work which he had undertaken . 
A man entirely without redeeming vices would have had no common basis on which to work , and no means of gaining the sympathy of his flock . 
On the contrary , he could choose his liquor with discrimination , and lower it in an able manner . 
He played a masterly hand at poker , and there were few who could touch him at cut throat euchre . 
At the first of these offences the parson would put on a pained smile , and gaze reproachfully at the culprit . 
At the second he would reach for his Bible , and the game was over for the evening . 
There were few things he took up that he could not make a show at apparently , except gold digging , and at that he was the veriest duffer alive . 
We reckoned that the amount which we had stored at the time represented the greatest sum which had ever been taken by a single convoy out of Jackman's Gulch . 
Although Elias B. Hopkins appeared to derive a certain quiet satisfaction from the wonderful change which he had effected in the camp , his joy was not yet rounded and complete . 
There was one thing for which he still yearned . 
He opened his heart to us about it one evening . 
We'd have a blessing on the camp , boys , he said , if we only had a service o' some sort on the Lord's day . 
We hain't got no parson , objected one of the crowd . 
Ye fool ! growled another , hain't we got a man as is worth any three parsons , and can splash texts around like clay out o' a cradle . 
What more d'ye want ? We hain't got no church ! urged the same dissentient . 
Have it in the open air , one suggested . 
Or in Woburn's store , said another . 
The last proposal was received with a buzz of approval , which showed that it was considered the most appropriate locality . 
Adams' saloon was a substantial wooden building in the rear of the bar , which was used partly for storing liquor and partly for a gambling saloon . 
A strong door opened into each end of the saloon , and the interior was spacious enough , when the table and lumber were cleared away , to accommodate the whole population . 
The spirit barrels were heaped together at one end by their owner , so as to make a very fair imitation of a pulpit . 
A real sermon was a novelty to all of them , and one coming from their own parson was additionally so . 
Rumour announced that it would be interspersed with local hits , and that the moral would be pointed by pungent personalities . 
Men began to fear that they would be unable to gain seats , and many applications were made to the brothers Adams . 
It was only when conclusively shown that the saloon could contain them all with a margin that the camp settled down into calm expectancy . 
It was as well that the building was of such a size , for the assembly upon the Sunday morning was the largest which had ever occurred in the annals of Jackman's Gulch . 
At first it was thought that the whole population was present , but a little reflection showed that this was not so . 
Maule and Phillips had gone on a prospecting journey among the hills , and had not returned as yet , and Woburn , the gold keeper , was unable to leave his store . 
Having a very large quantity of the precious metal under his charge , he stuck to his post , feeling that the responsibility was too great to trifle with . 
The interior of the building had been provided with rough benches , and the parson , with his quiet good humoured smile , was standing at the door to welcome them . 
Good morning , boys , he cried cheerily , as each group came lounging up . 
You'll find this is as good a morning's work as any you've done . 
His request was good humouredly complied with , and before the last of the congregation filed in , there was a strange assortment of knives and firearms in this depository . 
When all had assembled , the doors were shut , and the service began the first and the last which was ever performed at Jackman's Gulch . 
The weather was sultry and the room close , yet the miners listened with exemplary patience . 
There was a sense of novelty in the situation which had its attractions . 
To some it was entirely new , others were wafted back by it to another land and other days . 
There was a murmur of interest , however , when Elias B. Hopkins , looking down on the congregation from his rostrum of casks , began his address . 
He had attired himself with care in honour of the occasion . 
He wore a velveteen tunic , girt round the waist with a sash of china silk , a pair of moleskin trousers , and held his cabbage tree hat in his left hand . 
I've put you straight now , he said , in the course of his address I've got you in the right rut if you will but stick in it . 
Here he looked very hard out of the window for some seconds . 
You've learned soberness and industry , and with those things you can always make up any loss you may sustain . 
I guess there isn't one of ye that won't remember my visit to this camp . 
He paused for a moment , and three revolver shots rang out upon the quiet summer air . 
Keep your seats , damn ye ! roared our preacher , as his audience rose in excitement . 
If a man of ye moves down he goes ! The door's locked on the outside , so ye can't get out anyhow . 
I am armed and you are not . 
If one of you moves or speaks he is a dead man . 
If not , I shall not harm you . 
You must wait here for an hour . 
And Phillips and Maule were my two right hand men . 
My horse is tethered outside this door behind me . 
When the time is up I shall pass through it , lock it on the outside , and be off . 
Then you may break your way out as best you can . 
I have no more to say to you , except that ye are the most cursed set of asses that ever trod in boot leather . 
We had time to endorse mentally this outspoken opinion during the long sixty minutes which followed we were powerless before the resolute desperado . 
It is true that if we made a simultaneous rush we might bear him down at the cost of eight or ten of our number . 
But how could such a rush be organised without speaking , and who would attempt it without a previous agreement that he would be supported ? There was nothing for it but submission . 
We heard the creaking of the rusty lock , and the clatter of his horse's hoofs , as he galloped away . 
It has been remarked that an oath had , for the last few weeks , been a rare thing in the camp . 
We made up for our temporary abstention during the next half hour . 
Never was heard such symmetrical and heartfelt blasphemy . 
Poor Woburn , true to his trust , lay shot through the head across the threshold of his empty store . 
Jackman's Gulch recovered from this blow , and is now a flourishing township . 
Social reformers are not in request there , however , and morality is at a discount . 
The memory of their one and only pastor is still green among the inhabitants , and will be for many a long year to come . 
He was the victim , however , of a universal ambition which prompted him to aim at distinction in many subjects rather than preeminence in one . 
The most fickle of wooers , however , is apt to be caught at last , and so it was with John Vansittart Smith . 
The trains had been slow and the Channel had been rough , so that the student arrived in Paris in a somewhat befogged and feverish condition . 
Once in the Louvre he was on familiar ground , and he speedily made his way to the collection of papyri which it was his intention to consult . 
The warmest admirers of John Vansittart Smith could hardly claim for him that he was a handsome man . 
His high beaked nose and prominent chin had something of the same acute and incisive character which distinguished his intellect . 
He held his head in a birdlike fashion , and birdlike , too , was the pecking motion with which , in conversation , he threw out his objections and retorts . 
He straightened his lips and looked rigidly at the roll of papyrus , while his heart filled with bitterness against the whole race of travelling Britons . 
Yes , said another voice , he really is an extraordinary fellow . 
John Vansittart Smith spun round upon his heel with the intention of shaming his countrymen by a corrosive remark or two . 
I wonder what these chatterers call an Egyptian cast of countenance , thought John Vansittart Smith , and he moved his position slightly in order to catch a glimpse of the man's face . 
He started as his eyes fell upon it . 
It was indeed the very face with which his studies had made him familiar . 
The thing was beyond all coincidence . 
The man must be an Egyptian . 
The national angularity of the shoulders and narrowness of the hips were alone sufficient to identify him . 
John Vansittart Smith shuffled towards the attendant with some intention of addressing him . 
He was not light of touch in conversation , and found it difficult to strike the happy mean between the brusqueness of the superior and the geniality of the equal . 
As he came nearer , the man presented his side face to him , but kept his gaze still bent upon his work . 
Vansittart Smith , fixing his eyes upon the fellow's skin , was conscious of a sudden impression that there was something inhuman and preternatural about its appearance . 
Over the temple and cheek bone it was as glazed and as shiny as varnished parchment . 
There was no suggestion of pores . 
One could not fancy a drop of moisture upon that arid surface . 
Ou est la collection de Memphis ? asked the student , with the awkward air of a man who is devising a question merely for the purpose of opening a conversation . 
C'est la , replied the man brusquely , nodding his head at the other side of the room . 
Vous etes un Egyptien , n'est ce pas ? asked the Englishman . 
The attendant looked up and turned his strange dark eyes upon his questioner . 
They were vitreous , with a misty dry shininess , such as Smith had never seen in a human head before . 
Non , monsieur je suis Fransais . 
The man turned abruptly and bent low over his polishing . 
His thoughts , however refused to return into their natural groove . 
They would run upon the enigmatical attendant with the sphinx like face and the parchment skin . 
Where have I seen such eyes ? said Vansittart Smith to himself . 
There is something saurian about them , something reptilian . 
There's the membrana nictitans of the snakes , he mused , bethinking himself of his zoological studies . 
It gives a shiny effect . 
But there was something more here . 
There was a sense of power , of wisdom so I read them and of weariness , utter weariness , and ineffable despair . 
It may be all imagination , but I never had so strong an impression . 
By Jove , I must have another look at them ! He rose and paced round the Egyptian rooms , but the man who had excited his curiosity had disappeared . 
The student sat down again in his quiet corner , and continued to work at his notes . 
He had gained the information which he required from the papyri , and it only remained to write it down while it was still fresh in his memory . 
It was not until close upon one in the morning that , with a sudden gasp and an intaking of the breath , Vansittart Smith returned to consciousness . 
For a moment it flashed upon him that he had dropped asleep in his study chair at home . 
The student was not a nervous man . 
He possessed that love of a novel situation which is peculiar to his race . 
Stretching out his cramped limbs , he looked at his watch , and burst into a chuckle as he observed the hour . 
The episode would make an admirable anecdote to be introduced into his next paper as a relief to the graver and heavier speculations . 
He was a little cold , but wide awake and much refreshed . 
It was no wonder that the guardians had overlooked him , for the door threw its heavy black shadow right across him . 
The complete silence was impressive . 
Neither outside nor inside was there a creak or a murmur . 
He was alone with the dead men of a dead civilisation . 
Here was the flotsam and jetsam washed up by the great ocean of time from that far off empire . 
From stately Thebes , from lordly Luxor , from the great temples of Heliopolis , from a hundred rifled tombs , these relics had been brought . 
An unwonted sense of his own youth and insignificance came over him . 
Leaning back in his chair , he gazed dreamily down the long vista of rooms , all silvery with the moonshine , which extend through the whole wing of the widespread building . 
His eyes fell upon the yellow glare of a distant lamp . 
John Vansittart Smith sat up on his chair with his nerves all on edge . 
The light was advancing slowly towards him , pausing from time to time , and then coming jerkily onwards . 
In the utter silence there was no suspicion of the pat of a footfall . 
An idea of robbers entered the Englishman's head . 
He snuggled up further into the corner . 
The light was two rooms off . 
Now it was in the next chamber , and still there was no sound . 
With something approaching to a thrill of fear the student observed a face , floating in the air as it were , behind the flare of the lamp . 
The figure was wrapped in shadow , but the light fell full upon the strange eager face . 
There was no mistaking the metallic glistening eyes and the cadaverous skin . 
It was the attendant with whom he had conversed . 
Vansittart Smith's first impulse was to come forward and address him . 
A few words of explanation would set the matter clear , and lead doubtless to his being conducted to some side door from which he might make his way to his hotel . 
As the man entered the chamber , however , there was something so stealthy in his movements , and so furtive in his expression , that the Englishman altered his intention . 
This was clearly no ordinary official walking the rounds . 
The fellow wore felt soled slippers , stepped with a rising chest , and glanced quickly from left to right , while his hurried gasping breathing thrilled the flame of his lamp . 
Vansittart Smith crouched silently back into the corner and watched him keenly , convinced that his errand was one of secret and probably sinister import . 
There was no hesitation in the other's movements . 
He stepped lightly and swiftly across to one of the great cases , and , drawing a key from his pocket , he unlocked it . 
From the upper shelf he pulled down a mummy , which he bore away with him , and laid it with much care and solicitude upon the ground . 
By it he placed his lamp , and then squatting down beside it in Eastern fashion he began with long quivering fingers to undo the cerecloths and bandages which girt it round . 
It was clear to John Vansittart Smith that this mummy had never been unswathed before . 
The operation interested him keenly . 
He thrilled all over with curiosity , and his birdlike head protruded further and further from behind the door . 
When , however , the last roll had been removed from the four thousand year old head , it was all that he could do to stifle an outcry of amazement . 
First , a cascade of long , black , glossy tresses poured over the workman's hands and arms . 
A second turn of the bandage revealed a low , white forehead , with a pair of delicately arched eyebrows . 
The whole face was one of extraordinary loveliness , save for the one blemish that in the centre of the forehead there was a single irregular , coffee coloured splotch . 
It was a triumph of the embalmer's art . 
Vansittart Smith's eyes grew larger and larger as he gazed upon it , and he chirruped in his throat with satisfaction . 
Its effect upon the Egyptologist was as nothing , however , compared with that which it produced upon the strange attendant . 
Ma petite ! he groaned in French . 
For some minutes he lay , with a twitching face , crooning and moaning over the beautiful head . 
In the centre of the room there was a large circular case which contained , as the student had frequently remarked , a magnificent collection of early Egyptian rings and precious stones . 
To this the attendant strode , and , unlocking it , he threw it open . 
On the ledge at the side he placed his lamp , and beside it a small earthenware jar which he had drawn from his pocket . 
He was clearly disappointed with the first lot , for he threw them petulantly back into the case , and drew out some more . 
One of these , a massive ring with a large crystal set in it , he seized and eagerly tested with the contents of the jar . 
Excuse me , said John Vansittart Smith , with all imaginable politeness I have been unfortunate enough to fall asleep behind this door . 
And you have been watching me ? the other asked in English , with a most venomous look on his corpse like face . 
The student was a man of veracity . 
I confess , said he , that I have noticed your movements , and that they have aroused my curiosity and interest in the highest degree . 
The man drew a long flamboyant bladed knife from his bosom . 
You have had a very narrow escape , he said had I seen you ten minutes ago , I should have driven this through your heart . 
As it is , if you touch me or interfere with me in any way you are a dead man . 
I have no wish to interfere with you , the student answered . 
My presence here is entirely accidental . 
All I ask is that you will have the extreme kindness to show me out through some side door . 
If I thought said he . 
But no , perhaps it is as well . 
What is your name ? The Englishman gave it . 
Vansittart Smith , the other repeated . 
Are you the same Vansittart Smith who gave a paper in London upon El Kab ? I saw a report of it . 
Your knowledge of the subject is contemptible . 
Sir ! cried the Egyptologist . 
Yet it is superior to that of many who make even greater pretensions . 
The action of the air had already undone all the art of the embalmer . 
The man flapped his hands together in grief and horror . 
Then mastering himself by a strong effort he turned his hard eyes once more upon the Englishman . 
It does not matter , he said , in a shaking voice . 
It does not really matter . 
I came here to night with the fixed determination to do something . 
All else is as nothing . 
I have found my quest . 
The old curse is broken . 
What matter about her inanimate shell so long as her spirit is awaiting me at the other side of the veil ! These are wild words , said Vansittart Smith . 
He was becoming more and more convinced that he had to do with a madman . 
Time presses , and I must go , continued the other . 
The moment is at hand for which I have waited this weary time . 
But I must show you out first . 
Taking up the lamp , he turned from the disordered chamber , and led the student swiftly through the long series of the Egyptian , Assyrian , and Persian apartments . 
At the end of the latter he pushed open a small door let into the wall and descended a winding stone stair . 
The Englishman felt the cold fresh air of the night upon his brow . 
There was a door opposite him which appeared to communicate with the street . 
To the right of this another door stood ajar , throwing a spurt of yellow light across the passage . 
Come in here ! said the attendant shortly . 
He had hoped that he had come to the end of his adventure . 
Yet his curiosity was strong within him . 
He could not leave the matter unsolved , so he followed his strange companion into the lighted chamber . 
It was a small room , such as is devoted to a concierge . 
A wood fire sparkled in the grate . 
At one side stood a truckle bed , and at the other a coarse wooden chair , with a round table in the centre , which bore the remains of a meal . 
As the visitor's eye glanced round he could not but remark with an ever recurring thrill that all the small details of the room were of the most quaint design and antique workmanship . 
The gnarled heavy eyed man sat himself down upon the edge of the bed , and motioned his guest into the chair . 
There may be design in this , he said , still speaking excellent English . 
It may be decreed that I should leave some account behind as a warning to all rash mortals who would set their wits up against workings of Nature . 
I leave it with you . 
Make such use as you will of it . 
I speak to you now with my feet upon the threshold of the other world . 
It was in the reign of Tuthmosis , sixteen hundred years before the birth of Christ , that I first saw the light . 
You shrink away from me . 
Wait , and you will see that I am more to be pitied than to be feared . 
My father had been the chief priest of Osiris in the great temple of Abaris , which stood in those days upon the Bubastic branch of the Nile . 
I was brought up in the temple and was trained in all those mystic arts which are spoken of in your own Bible . 
I was an apt pupil . 
Before I was sixteen I had learned all which the wisest priest could teach me . 
From that time on I studied Nature's secrets for myself , and shared my knowledge with no man . 
Of all the questions which attracted me there were none over which I laboured so long as over those which concern themselves with the nature of life . 
I probed deeply into the vital principle . 
The aim of medicine had been to drive away disease when it appeared . 
It seemed to me that a method might be devised which should so fortify the body as to prevent weakness or death from ever taking hold of it . 
It is useless that I should recount my researches . 
You would scarce comprehend them if I did . 
They were carried out partly upon animals , partly upon slaves , and partly on myself . 
It would not indeed confer immortality , but its potency would endure for many thousands of years . 
I used it upon a cat , and afterwards drugged the creature with the most deadly poisons . 
That cat is alive in Lower Egypt at the present moment . 
There was nothing of mystery or magic in the matter . 
It was simply a chemical discovery , which may well be made again . 
Love of life runs high in the young . 
It seemed to me that I had broken away from all human care now that I had abolished pain and driven death to such a distance . 
With a light heart I poured the accursed stuff into my veins . 
Then I looked round for some one whom I could benefit . 
There was a young priest of Thoth , Parmes by name , who had won my goodwill by his earnest nature and his devotion to his studies . 
To him I whispered my secret , and at his request I injected him with my elixir . 
I should now , I reflected , never be without a companion of the same age as myself . 
After this grand discovery I relaxed my studies to some extent , but Parmes continued his with redoubled energy . 
Every day I could see him working with his flasks and his distiller in the Temple of Thoth , but he said little to me as to the result of his labours . 
The people would bow to me as they passed me , for the fame of my knowledge had gone abroad . 
There was war at this time , and the Great King had sent down his soldiers to the eastern boundary to drive away the Hyksos . 
A Governor , too , was sent to Abaris , that he might hold it for the King . 
I was struck with love as with lightning . 
My heart went out from me . 
I could have thrown myself beneath the feet of her bearers . 
Life without her was impossible . 
I swore by the head of Horus that she should be mine . 
I swore it to the Priest of Thoth . 
He turned away from me with a brow which was as black as midnight . 
There is no need to tell you of our wooing . 
She came to love me even as I loved her . 
The white plague had come upon the city and many were stricken , but I laid my hands upon the sick and nursed them without fear or scathe . 
She marvelled at my daring . 
Then I told her my secret , and begged her that she would let me use my art upon her . 
Your flower shall then be unwithered , Atma , I said . 
Other things may pass away , but you and I , and our great love for each other , shall outlive the tomb of King Chefru . 
But she was full of timid , maidenly objections . 
It was a great question , she said . 
She would think it over for this one night . 
In the morning I should know her resolution . 
Surely one night was not too much to ask . 
She wished to pray to Isis for help in her decision . 
With a sinking heart and a sad foreboding of evil I left her with her tirewomen . 
In the morning , when the early sacrifice was over , I hurried to her house . 
A frightened slave met me upon the steps . 
Her mistress was ill , she said , very ill . 
In a frenzy I broke my way through the attendants , and rushed through hall and corridor to my Atma's chamber . 
She lay upon her couch , her head high upon the pillow , with a pallid face and a glazed eye . 
On her forehead there blazed a single angry purple patch . 
I knew that hell mark of old . 
It was the scar of the white plague , the sign manual of death . 
Why should I speak of that terrible time ? For months I was mad , fevered , delirious , and yet I could not die . 
Never did an Arab thirst after the sweet wells as I longed after death . 
Could poison or steel have shortened the thread of my existence , I should soon have rejoined my love in the land with the narrow portal . 
I tried , but it was of no avail . 
The accursed influence was too strong upon me . 
One night as I lay upon my couch , weak and weary , Parmes , the priest of Thoth , came to my chamber . 
He stood in the circle of the lamplight , and he looked down upon me with eyes which were bright with a mad joy . 
Why did you let the maiden die ? he asked why did you not strengthen her as you strengthened me ? I was too late , I answered . 
You are my fellow in misfortune . 
For me they have no meaning . 
What mean you ? I cried , raising myself upon my elbow . 
Surely , friend , this grief has turned your brain . 
His face was aflame with joy , and he writhed and shook like one who hath a devil . 
Do you know whither I go ? he asked . 
Nay , I answered , I cannot tell . 
I go to her , said he . 
She lies embalmed in the further tomb by the double palm tree beyond the city wall . 
Why do you go there ? I asked . 
To die ! he shrieked , to die ! I am not bound by earthen fetters . 
But the elixir is in your blood , I cried . 
I can defy it , said he I have found a stronger principle which will destroy it . 
It is working in my veins at this moment , and in an hour I shall be a dead man . 
I shall join her , and you shall remain behind . 
As I looked upon him I could see that he spoke words of truth . 
The light in his eye told me that he was indeed beyond the power of the elixir . 
You will teach me ! I cried . 
I implore you , by the wisdom of Thoth , by the majesty of Anubis ! It is useless , he said coldly . 
Then I will find it out , I cried . 
You cannot , he answered it came to me by chance . 
There is one ingredient which you can never get . 
Save that which is in the ring of Thoth , none will ever more be made . 
In the ring of Thoth ! I repeated where then is the ring of Thoth ? That also you shall never know , he answered . 
Who has won in the end ? I leave you to your sordid earth life . 
I must go ! He turned upon his heel and fled from the chamber . 
In the morning came the news that the Priest of Thoth was dead . 
My days after that were spent in study . 
I must find this subtle poison which was strong enough to undo the elixir . 
From early dawn to midnight I bent over the test tube and the furnace . 
Above all , I collected the papyri and the chemical flasks of the Priest of Thoth . 
Alas ! they taught me little . 
Here and there some hint or stray expression would raise hope in my bosom , but no good ever came of it . 
Still , month after month , I struggled on . 
When my heart grew faint I would make my way to the tomb by the palm trees . 
Parmes had said that his discovery was connected with the ring of Thoth . 
I had some remembrance of the trinket . 
It was a large and weighty circlet , made , not of gold , but of a rarer and heavier metal brought from the mines of Mount Harbal . 
Platinum , you call it . 
The ring had , I remembered , a hollow crystal set in it , in which some few drops of liquid might be stored . 
Now , the secret of Parmes could not have to do with the metal alone , for there were many rings of that metal in the Temple . 
But how to find the ring ? It was not upon him when he was stripped for the embalmer . 
Of that I made sure . 
Neither was it among his private effects . 
In vain I searched every room that he had entered , every box , and vase , and chattel that he had owned . 
Yet it may be that my labours would have overcome all obstacles had it not been for a new and unlooked for misfortune . 
A great war had been waged against the Hyksos , and the Captains of the Great King had been cut off in the desert , with all their bowmen and horsemen . 
The shepherd tribes were upon us like the locusts in a dry year . 
From the wilderness of Shur to the great bitter lake there was blood by day and fire by night . 
Abaris was the bulwark of Egypt , but we could not keep the savages back . 
The Governor and the soldiers were put to the sword , and I , with many more , was led away into captivity . 
For years and years I tended cattle in the great plains by the Euphrates . 
My master died , and his son grew old , but I was still as far from death as ever . 
At last I escaped upon a swift camel , and made my way back to Egypt . 
Everywhere the tombs had been rifled and the monuments destroyed . 
Of my Atma's grave no sign was left . 
It was buried in the sands of the desert , and the palm trees which marked the spot had long disappeared . 
The papers of Parmes and the remains of the Temple of Thoth were either destroyed or scattered far and wide over the deserts of Syria . 
All search after them was vain . 
From that time I gave up all hope of ever finding the ring or discovering the subtle drug . 
I set myself to live as patiently as might be until the effect of the elixir should wear away . 
I was old when Ilium fell . 
I was very old when Herodotus came to Memphis . 
I was bowed down with years when the new gospel came upon earth . 
Yet you see me much as other men are , with the cursed elixir still sweetening my blood , and guarding me against that which I would court . 
Now at last , at last I have come to the end of it ! I have travelled in all lands and I have dwelt with all nations . 
Every tongue is the same to me . 
I learned them all to help pass the weary time . 
I need not tell you how slowly they drifted by , the long dawn of modern civilisation , the dreary middle years , the dark times of barbarism . 
They are all behind me now , I have never looked with the eyes of love upon another woman . 
Atma knows that I have been constant to her . 
It was my custom to read all that the scholars had to say upon Ancient Egypt . 
I have been in many positions , sometimes affluent , sometimes poor , but I have always found enough to enable me to buy the journals which deal with such matters . 
Some nine months ago I was in San Francisco , when I read an account of some discoveries made in the neighbourhood of Abaris . 
My heart leapt into my mouth as I read it . 
It said that the excavator had busied himself in exploring some tombs recently unearthed . 
It added that on removing the outer case there had been exposed a large platinum ring set with a crystal , which had been laid upon the breast of the embalmed woman . 
This , then was where Parmes had hid the ring of Thoth . 
He might well say that it was safe , for no Egyptian would ever stain his soul by moving even the outer case of a buried friend . 
I hurried to the Frenchmen who were digging there and asked them for the ring . 
They replied that both the ring and the mummy had been sent to the Boulak Museum at Cairo . 
To Boulak I went , but only to be told that Mariette Bey had claimed them and had shipped them to the Louvre . 
But how was I to lay hands upon them ? How was I to have them for my very own ? It chanced that the office of attendant was vacant . 
I went to the Director . 
I convinced him that I knew much about Egypt . 
In my eagerness I said too much . 
He remarked that a Professor's chair would suit me better than a seat in the Conciergerie . 
I knew more , he said , than he did . 
It is my first and my last night here . 
Such is my story , Mr. Vansittart Smith . 
I need not say more to a man of your perception . 
By a strange chance you have this night looked upon the face of the woman whom I loved in those far off days . 
There were many rings with crystals in the case , and I had to test for the platinum to be sure of the one which I wanted . 
I have nothing more to say to you . 
You may tell my story or you may withhold it at your pleasure . 
The choice rests with you . 
I owe you some amends , for you have had a narrow escape of your life this night . 
I was a desperate man , and not to be baulked in my purpose . 
Had I seen you before the thing was done , I might have put it beyond your power to oppose me or to raise an alarm . 
It leads into the Rue de Rivoli . 
Good night ! The Englishman glanced back . 
For a moment the lean figure of Sosra the Egyptian stood framed in the narrow doorway . 
The next the door had slammed , and the heavy rasping of a bolt broke on the silent night . 
It was on the second day after his return to London that Mr. John Vansittart Smith saw the following concise narrative in the Paris correspondence of the Times Curious Occurrence in the Louvre . 
Yesterday morning a strange discovery was made in the principal Egyptian Chamber . 
The ouvriers who are employed to clean out the rooms in the morning found one of the attendants lying dead upon the floor with his arms round one of the mummies . 
So close was his embrace that it was only with the utmost difficulty that they were separated . 
One of the cases containing valuable rings had been opened and rifled . 
It is said that he was a man of uncertain age and eccentric habits , without any living relations to mourn over his dramatic and untimely end . 
