Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com POOR AND PROUD OR THE FORTUNES OF KATY REDBURN A STORY FOR YOUNG FOLKS BY OLIVER OPTIC TO ALICE MARIE ADAMS , This Book IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED BY HER FATHER . 
Bobby Bright and Harry West , whose histories were contained in the last two volumes of the Library for Young Folks , were both smart boys . 
In these respects she is a worthy exemplar for the young . 
Pride and poverty do not seem to agree with each other but there is a pride which is not irreconcilable with the humblest station . 
This pride of character finds an illustration in the life of my heroine . 
I. Katy Redburn and Others Are Introduced II . 
The History of the Silver Watch III . 
Katy and Master Simon Sneed Visit the Pawnbroker's Shop IV . 
Katy Matures a Magnificent Scheme V. Katy Visits Mrs. Gordon , and Gets Rid of Dr . 
Katy Prepares a Stock of Merchandise VII . 
Katy Makes a Large Sale VIII . 
Katy Sells Out , and Visits the Mayor IX . 
Katy talks with the Mayor , and Recovers the Watch X. Katy , in Distress , finds a Champion XI . 
Katy Meets with Extraordinary Success XII . 
Katy Pays Her Debts , and Tommy Goes to Sea XIII . 
Katy Employs an Assistant XIV . 
Master Simon Sneed Makes a Mistake XV . 
Katy Gets a Letter from Liverpool XVI . 
Ann Grippen Plays Tricks upon Travelers XVII . 
The Sun Sets , and the Night Comes On XVIII . 
Katy Struggles Bravely through a Series of Trials XIX . 
Katy Resorts to a Loan XX . 
Mrs. Gordon Feels Faint , and Katy Enters a New Sphere XXI . 
Katy Goes to Church , and Has a Birthday Party POOR AND PROUD OR , THE FORTUNES OF KATY REDBURN . 
CHAPTER I. KATY REDBURN AND OTHERS ARE INTRODUCED . 
I'll bet I won't , replied Johnny , gruffly , as he drew the basket out of the reach of the supplicant . 
You needn't come round here tryin' to hook my fish . 
You hooked 'em , said another juvenile angler who sat on the capsill of the pier by Johnny's side . 
I say so , added Tommy Howard , who did not seem to be at all alarmed at the warlike attitude of his fellow angler . 
Say it again , and I'll smash your head , continued Johnny , jumping up from his seat . 
Didn't you hear me ? Once is enough . 
Tommy coolly hauled up a large flounder at that moment , and threw the fish into his basket . 
It was rather refreshing to see how regardless he was of that pair of menacing fists . 
Jest you say that once more , and see what I'll do , persisted Johnny . 
You dasn't say it again . 
Perhaps I dasn't at any rate , I shan't . 
Do you mean to say I hooked them fish ? exclaimed Johnny , desperately , for it seemed as though he must do something to vindicate his injured honor . 
That's just what I did say . 
But Tommy was so confoundedly cool that his fellow angler had some doubts about the expediency of pitching into him . 
Probably a vision of defeat flashed through his excited brain and discretion seemed the better part of valor . 
Don't fight , Tommy , said the little ragged girl . 
He was a prudent young man . 
Don't fight , Johnny , repeated the girl , turning to the excited aspirant for the honors of the ring . 
Do you suppose I'll let him tell me I hooked them fish ? blustered Johnny . 
Yes , I did , interposed Tommy . 
He caught 'em on a hook so of course he hooked em . 
Is that what you meant ? asked Johnny , a broad grin overspreading his dirty face , and his fists suddenly expanding into dirty paws again . 
That's just what I meant and your skull is as thick as a two inch plank , or you would have seen what I meant . 
Johnny was not disposed to resent this last insinuation about the solidity of his cranium . 
He was evidently too glad to get out of the scrape without a broken head or a bloody nose . 
On the whole , he rather enjoyed the pun and he had the condescension to laugh heartily , though somewhat unnaturally , at the jest . 
Will you give me a flounder , Tommy ? said the little ragged girl , as she glanced into his well filled basket . 
What do you want of him , Katy ? asked Tommy turning round and gazing up into her sad , pale face . 
Katy hesitated her bosom heaved , and her lips compressed , as though she feared to answer the question . 
To eat , she replied , at last , in a husky tone . 
Tommy's heart melted as he saw this exhibition of sorrow . 
He wondered what could ail her . 
My mother is sick , replied Katy , dashing away the tell tale tear . 
I know that but what do you want of flounders ? We have nothing to eat now , said Katy , bursting into tears . 
Mother has not been able to do any work for more than three months and we haven't got any money now . 
I haven't had any breakfast to day . 
Take 'em all , Katy ! exclaimed Tommy , jumping up from his seat on the capsill of the pier . 
How will you carry them ? Here , I will string 'em for you . 
Tommy was all energy now , and thrust his hands down into the depths of his pockets in search of a piece of twine . 
Here , take them and as you go by the grocery at the corner of the court , buy a two cent roll , whispered he . 
Got a bit o' string , Johnny ? he added aloud , as Katy began to protest against taking the money . 
Hain't got none but I'll give you a piece of my fish line , if you want , replied the bully , who was now unusually obliging . 
I don't want them all , Tommy only give me two or three . 
I never shall forget you , Tommy , said Katy , her eyes suffused with tears of gratitude . 
I'm sorry things go so bad with you , Katy , and I wish I could do something more for you . 
I don't want anything more . 
Don't put any more on the string . 
We can't eat any more . 
Well , then , I'll bring you some more to morrow , replied Tommy , as he handed her the string of fish . 
Stop a minute here's a first rate tom cod let me put him on and he took the string and added the fish to his gift . 
Never mind 'em , Katy . 
Don't go hungry again for a minute . 
Come to me , and I'll help you to something or other . 
Thank you , Tommy and with a lighter heart than she had brought with her , she hastened up the pier , no doubt anticipating a rich feast from the string of fish . 
The pier of the new South Boston bridge was then , as now , a favorite resort for juvenile fishermen . 
Katy walked as fast as her little feet would carry her , till she came to a court leading out of Essex Street . 
The bells were ringing for one o'clock as she entered the grocery at the corner and purchased the two cent roll which Tommy Howard's bounty enabled her to add to her feast . 
O , mother , I've got a lot of flounders and some bread for you ! exclaimed she , as she bolted into the room . 
Flynch but let not my young reader make a mistake . 
It is true he was called a doctor , and he had been a doctor , but he did not practice the healing art now . 
If he had failed to make a physician , it was not because his heart was so tender that he could not bear to look upon pain and suffering . 
He was the agent of Mrs. Gordon , a widow lady , who owned the house in which Katy's mother lived . 
He collected her rents , and transacted all her business and as far as dollars and cents were concerned , he had certainly been a faithful servant . 
Mrs. Redburn , said Dr . 
Flynch , when he had heard the exclamation of Katy , you have told me a falsehood . 
You said you had no money , not a cent . 
Where did you get that roll , child ? At the store at the corner of the court , replied Katy , abashed by the cold dignity of the agent . 
Precisely so , Mrs. Redburn but you do not buy bread without money . 
You have attempted to deceive me . 
No , sir , I have not , pleaded the sick woman . 
I did not give her the money . 
Where did you get the money to buy that roll with ? demanded Dr . 
Flynch , turning sharply to Katy . 
Tommy Howard gave it to me . 
Who is Tommy Howard ? He lives on the other side of the court . 
Very probable that a dirty , ragged boy gave her the money ! This is another false hood , Mrs. Redburn . 
I lament that a person in your situation should have no higher views of Christian morality than to lie yourself , and teach your child to lie , which is much worse . 
Flynch was a man of method , and when a tenant did not pay the rent , it was his purpose to get rid of that tenant in the quietest way possible . 
As he wished to believe this was the case , he had no difficulty in convincing himself , and thus quieting his poor apology for a conscience . 
Besides being a man of method , Dr . 
Flynch was a man of upright walk and conversation at least , he passed for such with those who did not know anything about him . 
Flynch turned upon his heel , and walked out of the room . 
My poor child ! what will become of us ? sobbed the sick woman , as she grasped Katy's hand , and pressed it to her bosom with convulsive energy . 
Don't cry , mother something can be done . 
I will go and see Mrs. Gordon , and beg her to let you stay here . 
You must not do that Dr . 
Flynch told me , if I troubled her about the house , I should not stay in it another minute , even if I paid the rent . 
He is a bad man , mother and I don't believe Mrs. Gordon knows what he does here . 
There is one thing more we can do , Katy , continued Mrs. Redburn , wiping away her tears , and taking from under her pillow a heavy silver watch . 
This was your father's but we must sell it now . 
It is all we have left . 
I should hate to have that sold , mother . 
We must sell it , or pawn it . 
We will pawn it then . 
How shall we do it ? I have not strength to rise , and they will cheat you if you offer it . 
I will tell you what I can do , mother I will get Simon Sneed to go with me to the pawnbroker's shop . 
He is very kind to me , and I know he will . 
He comes home to dinner at two o clock . 
This plan was agreed to , and Katy then went to work to clean and cook the flounders . 
THE HISTORY OF THE SILVER WATCH . 
The operation of cleaning the flounders was the greatest trial , for the skin of the fish has to be removed . 
She cut her fingers with the knife , and scratched and pricked her hands with the sharp bones but she was resolute , and finally accomplished the task to her entire satisfaction . 
An occasional direction from her mother enabled her to cook the fish properly , and dinner was ready . 
The invalid had no appetite , but to please Katy she ate a portion of the fish and bread though it was very hard work for her to do so . 
The little girl , gladdened by this unwonted sight , made a hearty meal , without a thought of the trials and sorrows which the future might have in store for them . 
Katy seated herself on the side of the bed , for she was very anxious to hear more about her father than she already knew . 
She had often asked her mother about him , but she had generally evaded her questions , and did not seem willing to tell her all she knew . 
She thought there was some secret connected with his history , and with a child's curiosity she was eager to have the mystery unfolded . 
But it was no great secret , after all only a painful history , which her sensitive mother did not like to rehearse . 
Mrs. Redburn handed the watch to Katy , and asked her to look upon the back of it . 
Yes , mother , I have often seen those words on there All for the Best . 
What do they mean ? said Katy . 
This watch was given to your father by my father , replied Mrs. Redburn , with a deep sigh , for the words seemed to recall happy memories of the past . 
Who was your father ? asked the attentive little girl . 
His name was Matthew Guthrie . 
He was a merchant in Liverpool , England , where I was born . 
A merchant , mother ? Then he was a rich man , and lived in a great house , and had plenty of servants . 
He was rich , and lived in good style . 
One day there came a young man in great distress to his counting room . 
He was a clerk , and had been sent by his employer in Manchester to pay a large sum of money to my father . 
After leaving the train , he had entered an ale house , where he had been robbed of the remittance . 
He had been imprudent , but instead of running away , he went directly to my father , and informed him of his misfortune . 
The young man felt that he was ruined , but he said he was determined not to leave Liverpool till he had found the money . 
He was sure he knew the man who had robbed him , and my father procured the services of several policemen to assist him in his search . 
All that day and all that night , attended by policemen , he visited the resorts of vice and crime , and his perseverance was rewarded with success . 
He found the man , and the money was recovered . 
My father was so well pleased with the energy of the young man , that he gave him a situation in his counting room . 
That young man was John Redburn , your father . 
Mrs. Redburn burst into tears , and covered her face with her hands , as the pleasant memories of her former happy home rushed through her mind . 
Don't cry , mother I won't ask you any more questions , said Katy , grieved to find she had reminded her mother of some unpleasant thing . 
It was all my own fault , Katy . 
I am here poor and wretched , because I disobeyed my father because I did what he desired me not to do . 
I will tell you all about it , Katy . 
I became acquainted with the new clerk , John Redburn , and the result of our acquaintance was , that we were married in about a year . 
We ran away from home for my father , however much he liked John as a clerk , was not willing that he should be my husband . 
He forbade John's coming to our house , and forbade my seeing him . 
We were married , and John was discharged . 
My father refused to see me again . 
That was cruel , interposed Katy My father was right , and I have always regretted that I disobeyed him . 
We came to America , and your father procured a situation in New York , where you were born , about a year after we arrived . 
For three years we got along very well . 
I wish I could stop here , Katy , for the rest of the story is very sad . 
Don't tell me any more , mother , it makes you feel so bad , I would rather not hear it . 
I know now why you value the watch so much , and I hope we shall be able to get it back again . 
But you must hear the rest of this sad story . 
Mrs. Redburn continued the narrative , though tears blinded her eyes , and sobs chocked her utterance , as she told of the struggle she had had with poverty and want . 
John obtained another situation , but soon lost it . 
He was a good hearted man when he had not been drinking , and keenly felt the disgrace and misery he was heaping upon himself and his unhappy wife . 
Once he had the resolution to abandon the cup , fully determined to redeem his lost character , and make his family happy again . 
The better to accomplish this , he removed to Boston , where he obtained a good situation , and for more than a year he adhered to his resolution . 
Mrs. Redburn was happy again and tremblingly hoped that the clouds of darkness had forever passed away . 
The evil time came again , and John Redburn sank down lower than ever before . 
His wife lost all hope of him , and struggled , with the courage of a hero and the fortitude of a martyr , against the adverse tide that set against her . 
One morning in winter he was brought home to her dead . 
He had died in the watch house of delirium tremens . 
He was buried , and peace , if not hope , settled on the brow of the broken hearted wife . 
Year after year Mrs. Redburn struggled on , often with feeble hands and fainting heart , to earn a subsistence for herself and Katy . 
She had never learned that calculating economy which provides a great deal with very small means . 
Hence it was much harder for her to support herself and child , than it would have been for one who had been brought up in a hovel . 
She had done very well , however , until , a few months before our story opens , she had been taken sick , and was no longer able to work . 
Her disease was an affection of the spine , which was at times very painful , and confined her to the bed . 
But where is your father now ? asked Katy , when her mother had finished the narrative . 
I do not know if he is alive , he probably lives in Liverpool . 
Why don't you write a letter to him ? I have done so several times , but have never received any reply . 
I wrote shortly after your father died , giving an account of my situation . 
I am sure my father never could have got my letter , or he would have answered me . 
I know he would not let me suffer here in woe and want , if he were aware of my condition . 
Why don't you write again ? It is useless . 
Let me write , mother . 
Alas , my child , I have given up all hope of ever seeing him again in this world . 
In my letters I confessed my fault , and begged his forgiveness . 
He cannot be alive , or I am sure my last letters would have melted his heart . 
Haven't you any brothers and sisters , mother ? I had one sister and I have written several letters to her , but with no better success . 
They may be all dead . 
And your mother ? She died when I was young . 
I know Jane would have answered my letters if she had received them . 
I was not very hungry . 
We have had enough to eat till to day . 
What can you do , poor child ? I can do a great many things I am sure I can earn money enough to support us both . 
It is hard to think how much I have suffered , and how much of woe there may be in the future for me , sobbed Mrs. Redburn . 
You know what it says on the watch All for the Best . 
Who knows but that all your sorrows are for the best ? I hope they are I will try to think they are . 
But it is time for you to go . 
Pawn the watch for as much as you can and I trust that some fortunate event will enable us to redeem it . 
Katy took the watch , smoothed down her hair again , put on her worn out bonnet , and left the house . 
CHAPTER III , KATY AND MASTER SIMON SNEED VISIT THE PAWNBROKER'S SHOP . 
Katy's mother lived in a small house , with three other families . 
She occupied two rooms , for which she paid four dollars a month , the amount of rent now due and unpaid . 
The next house to Mrs. Redburn was tenanted by Mr. Sneed , the mason . 
Katy knocked at the door of this house , and inquired for Master Simon Sneed . 
She was informed that he had not yet finished his dinner and she decided to wait in the court till he made his appearance . 
Seating herself on the door stone , she permitted her mind to wander back to the narrative her mother had related to her . 
She glanced at her coarse clothes , and could hardly believe that her grandfather was a rich merchant , and lived in a fine house . 
Pooh ! what a fool I am to think of such a thing ! exclaimed she impatiently , as she rose from the door stone . 
Do you want me , Katy ? said a voice from the door , which Katy recognized as that of Master Simon Sneed . 
I want to see you very much , replied Katy . 
Wait a moment , and I will join you . 
Master Simon Sneed was about fifteen years old , and tall enough to have been two years older . 
He was very slim , and held his head very straight . 
Clearly those straps were sewed on by himself , and clearly those cowhide shoes had been thus elaborately polished by no other hands than his own . 
In a word , the appearance of his clothes , coarse as was their texture , and unfashionable as was their cut , indicated the most scrupulous care . 
It was plain that he had a fondness for dress , which his circumstances did not permit him to indulge to any very great extent . 
He could hold his own in conversation with older and wiser persons than himself . 
He spoke familiarly of great men and great events . 
His business relations for Master Sneed was a business man were not very complicated . 
According to his own reckoning , he was the chief person in the employ of Messrs . 
There was a vast difference between Master Simon Sneed's estimate of Masters Simon Sneed , and the Messrs . 
's idea of Master Simon Sneed . 
Therefore she did not scruple to apply to him in the present emergency . 
Well , Katy , in what manner can I serve you ? inquired Simon , as he elevated his head , and stood picking his teeth before her . 
I want you to do something for me very much indeed . 
State your business , Katy . 
It is really unfortunate , Katy it is after bank hours now , and I don't see that I can accommodate you . 
O , I don't want to borrow the money . 
I have got a watch here , which belonged to my father and I want to pawn it for the money to pay the rent . 
Well , it is rather out of our line of business to lend money on collateral . 
I don't want you to lend it . 
I want you to take it to the pawnbroker's . 
Mother says I am so young and so small that they might cheat me and I thought perhaps , may be , you'd be so kind as to go with me . 
Go with you ! exclaimed Master Simon , as he eyed her coarse , ill made garments . 
I thought you would , replied Katy , with a look of disappointment . 
Well , Katy , I shall be very glad to assist you in this matter , but Master Simon paused , and glanced again at the unfashionable dress of the suppliant . 
He was , as he said , willing to aid her but the idea of the principal personage of the house of Sands Co . 
walking through the streets of the great city with such an ill dressed young lady was absurd , and not to be tolerated . 
It is undoubtedly true that where there is a will there is a way . 
Where do you wish to go ? demanded he . 
Do you know where Brattle Street is ? I don't , but I can find it . 
Master Sneed gave her directions so that she could find the street , and at the end of the court , as she turned one way , he turned the other . 
Katy handed up the watch , which the money lender opened and carefully examined . 
His practised eye soon discovered that the works of the watch were of the best quality . 
Where did you get this ? asked the broker . 
My mother gave it to me and Katy told without reserve the pitiful story of want and destitution which compelled Mrs. Redburn to part with the cherished memento of the past . 
I will give you three dollars for the watch , added the broker . 
Come , come , sir , interposed Master Simon , with a smile that is a little too bad . 
A gentleman of your judgment and discretion has already assured himself that the article is worth at least twenty . 
The broker drew a long breath after this speech , and seemed very much impressed by the style of the remark . 
But Katy declared she did not want to sell the watch , only to pawn it . 
Your story is not a very plausible one , said the broker , and there is some risk in taking it . 
I give you my personal assurance , on honor that her story is all true , added Simon . 
The broker burst out into a loud laugh . 
He could not stand Simon's fine speeches , and would not take the watch at any rate so they departed to find another place , and entered a shop close by . 
Where did you get this ? asked the broker sourly , and Katy repeated her story , and Simon vouched for its truth . 
It is all a lie , exclaimed the broker , I will put the watch into my safe and hand it over to the police . 
This is a most extraordinary proceeding , protested Master Simon . 
I don't buy stolen goods . 
Katy began to cry , as the last hope of redemption from the fangs of Dr . 
The money lender repeated his menace , and even went to the door , for the apparent purpose of putting it into execution . 
I cannot remain any longer away from my business , or I would recover the watch at once . 
O , dear ! my poor mother ! sobbed Katy . 
Don't cry , my child leave it all to me , and run home as fast as you can . 
, which Katy innocently concluded must be suffering by this time from his absence . 
Poor Katy ! with a heavy heart she wandered home to tell her mother of this new misfortune . 
KATY MATURES A MAGNIFICENT SCHEME . 
I suppose it is all for the best , mother , said Katy , when she had told her sad story of disappointment . 
I can't get those words out of my head , since you have told me about my father . 
I feel just as though everything would come out right , it does go very bad just now . 
I am glad you feel so , Katy , added Mrs. Redburn . 
It will make you much better contented with your lot . 
They were not the basis of a cold philosophy they assured her of the paternal care of God . 
The poor girl felt as she had never felt before . 
Upon her devolved the responsibility of providing for her mother . 
She had no other friend , and that day seemed to open a new era in her existence . 
She felt strong for the work before her , and resolved to lose not a single day in putting her resolution into operation . 
The teachings of her mother , breathing a spirit of piety and resignation , were grateful to her heart , and added new strength to her arm . 
There was still food enough in the house for Katy's supper , for her mother could not eat , though she drank a cup of tea . 
At one o'clock the next day Dr . 
Flynch would come for the rent again and her mother could not pay him . 
What could be done ? They could not pay the rent that was impossible and she regarded it as just as impossible to melt the heart of Dr . 
But long before she went to sleep she had decided what to do . 
She was refreshed by her deep slumbers , and got up feeling like a new creature . 
She had scarcely made a fire and put on the tea kettle , before a knock at the door startled her . 
Good morning , Katy , said he , as he handed her a little basket he had brought . 
Mother sent this over , and wants to know how Mrs. Redburn does to day . 
She is about the same . 
What is in this basket , Tommy ? O , you know and he turned to run away . 
Stop a minute , Tommy , called Katy . 
I want to speak to you . 
Well , what is it ? You haven't told anybody about it have you ? About what ? What I told you yesterday , replied Katy , hanging her head with shame . 
What do you mean ? That we had nothing to eat , and Katy blushed as though it was a crime to be hungry and have nothing to eat . 
Not a soul catch me ! that is , I hain't told nobody but mother . 
I am sorry you did , even her . 
My mother is very proud , if she is poor but she wasn't always so poor as she is now , for she is the daughter of a rich merchant . 
Yes , I do , Tommy so please don't say a word about it to anybody but your mother , and ask her not to mention it . 
Not a word , Katy , mother won't say a word either . 
And sometime I'll tell you all about it . 
Thank you for what's in the basket , Tommy . 
Without waiting for anything more , the noble , generous boy leaped down the stairs and passed out at the front door . 
What have you got there , Katy ? asked Mrs. Redburn , as she entered the room with the basket in her hand . 
What have you done , my child ? exclaimed the poor woman , a flush gathering on her pale cheek . 
I had rather starve than beg , Katy but I cannot compel you to do so . 
Then let us send those cakes back . 
No , mother we must not be so proud as that . 
I think that God sent us this food through Mrs. Howard , and it would be wicked to reject His bounty . 
Do as you please , Katy . 
Some time we shall be able to pay her and that will make it all right . 
Mrs. Redburn could not taste the biscuit , but Katy ate heartily . 
Her pride was not inflated by the remembrance of brighter days . 
All she had was inherited from her mother . 
After breakfast she put on her bonnet and left the house , assuring her mother she should be back by twelve o'clock . 
She would not tell her where she was going , but evaded her questions , and got away as soon as she could . 
As she passed down Washington Street , she stopped before the store of Sands Co . 
, for she wanted to see Master Simon Sneed . 
She did not like to enter the store so she waited on the sidewalk for half an hour , hoping he would come out . 
Mister Sneed ! laughed the clerk . 
Here , Simon , is one of your friends . 
Simon , with a flushed cheek , came to the door . 
He was horrified at the insinuation of the salesman and wished Katy had been on the other side of the ocean before she had come there to scandalize him by claiming his acquaintance . 
What do you want now ? he demanded , rather rudely . 
I waited outside for half an hour , and you didn't come out . 
I can't leave the affairs of this firm to attend to every little and Master Simon's naturally good heart prevented him from uttering the unkind words that had been on his tongue . 
I suppose you come to know about the watch . 
I haven't had time to call upon the mayor yet , but I will do so at dinner time . 
I only wanted to ask you if you know where Mrs. Gordon lives , replied Katy , very sad at the thought of the mischief she had done . 
She lives in Temple Street , over back of the State House . 
What do you want of her ? I want to see her . 
Do you suppose you can get that watch back ? I'm certain I can . 
When my friend the mayor hears my story , you may depend upon it he will get the watch , or upset all the pawn brokers' shops in the city . 
It was only last week that I had a long and extremely interesting conversation with his honor on the sidewalk here before the store . 
Katy was satisfied , though Simon did not offer to introduce her to his distinguished friend . 
It was undeniably true that he had conversed with the mayor for ten full minutes , at the time and place represented . 
After receiving more explicit directions in regard to the residence of Mrs. Gordon , Katy took her leave of Simon . 
Next door to Sands Co . 
's was the store of a celebrated confectioner . 
Mother used to make molasses candy for me , and I know just how it is done , said she to herself . 
What is the reason I can't make candy and sell it ? She walked on towards School Street , up which she had been directed to turn , full of this idea . 
She would become a little candy merchant . 
She felt sure she could find purchasers enough , if her merchandise only looked clean and good . 
It was a great deal better than begging , and she thought her mother would consent to her making and selling the candy . 
If she saw them at all , it was only to regard them as so many purchasers of molasses candy . 
With her brain almost reeling with the immensity and magnificence of her scheme , she reached Temple Street . 
After a little search , she found the number of Mrs. Gordon's residence on a splendid house , whose grandness quite abashed her . 
But her courage revived as she thought of the purpose that had brought her there , and she boldly rang the bell . 
The door was opened by a servant man in a white jacket , of whom she inquired if Mrs. Gordon was at home . 
Mrs. Gordon is at home , but we don't trouble her at the call of a beggar , replied the well fed servant as he glanced at the homely apparel of Katy . 
I am not a beggar , she replied , with spirit , her cheek reddening with indignation at the charge . 
You can't see her so go about your business . 
Who is it Michael ? said a gentle voice within . 
Only a beggar , Miss Grace she wants to see Mrs. Gordon , replied the man and then a beautiful young lady came to look at her . 
I am not a beggar , ma'am indeed I am not . 
I want to see Mrs. Gordon very much . 
Please to let me speak to her . 
The sweet , pleading tones of the child produced their impression on the beautiful lady , and she bade her come in . 
Katy entered , and Michael told her to stand in the entry while Miss Grace went up stairs to call Mrs. Gordon . 
CHAPTER V. KATY VISITS MRS . 
GORDON , AND GETS RID OF DR . 
The door of the sitting room was open , and she had an opportunity to look at all the fine things it contained . 
She had never seen anything so luxurious before , and I must say that she regretted the poverty of her lot , which deprived her mother and herself of them . 
All round the room hung pictures in costly frames . 
It was the portrait of a lady , and her expression was very like that of her mother so like that she could almost believe the picture had been painted for her mother . 
Yet that could not be , for the lady was young , and plump , and rosy , and wore rich laces , and a costly dress . 
She seemed to look down upon her from the golden frame with a smile of satisfaction . 
There was something roguish in her eye , as though she was on the point of bursting into a laugh at some mischief she had perpetrated . 
O , no ! that could not be her mother she had never seen her look like that . 
But there was something that seemed very much like her and the more she looked at it , the more the picture fascinated her . 
In vain she attempted to fasten her mind upon some of the other portraits . 
There was an elderly gentleman , with a full red face but the jealous lady would not let her look at him . 
She turned round and looked out the windows at the side of the door but the spell of the lady was upon her , and she could not resist the charm . 
What makes you keep looking at me ? said Katy to herself , or rather to the lady on the canvas . 
You needn't watch me so closely I shall not steal anything . 
Mrs. Gordon will be down in a moment , said Miss Grace , in kind tones . 
She wondered if such a dignified lady could ever have been so roguish as the picture indicated . 
Please , ma'am , stammered she , rising from her chair , I come to see you about the house we live in . 
What is your name , child ? Katy Redburn , ma'am . 
In what house do you live in ? In one of yours in Colvin Court . 
Mother is a poor woman , and has been sick so much this summer that she can't pay the rent . 
I am very sorry for you , my child , but I refer you to my agent , Dr . 
I do not like to meddle with these things , as I have given him the whole care of my houses . 
You will find him a very good man , and one who will be willing to consider your case . 
He will extend to you all the lenity your case requires . 
Flynch all about it , ma'am and he says if the rent is not paid by one o'clock to day , he shall turn us out of the house . 
Indeed ! exclaimed Mrs. Gordon and Grace actually jumped out of her chair with astonishment and indignation . 
Yes , ma'am that's just what he said , added Katy , satisfied with the impression she had produced . 
Is your mother ill now ? asked Mrs. Gordon . 
Yes ma'am she has not been off her bed for twelve weeks . 
Flynch say , my child ? He says my mother deceived him that she told him a falsehood and that she had money , when she didn't have a cent . 
It is too bad , mother ! exclaimed Grace . 
Hush , Grace probably Dr . 
Flynch knows best , for he certainly would not turn a poor sick woman out of doors because she did not pay the rent . 
There may be , as he says , some deception about it , which he can penetrate and we cannot . 
There is no deception about it , ma'am , pleaded Katy , much disturbed by this sudden damper upon her hopes . 
She has not got a single cent . 
She wouldn't tell a lie , and I wouldn't either . 
But she had great confidence in Dr . 
Flynch , and she was very unwilling to believe that he could be so harsh and cruel as the little girl represented . 
She had heard of the tricks of the vicious poor , and while she was disposed to be very tender of a needy tenant , she must be just to her agent . 
It is now half past ten , continued Mrs. Gordon . 
You shall remain here , my child , and I will send Michael down to Colvin Court to inquire into the situation of your mother . 
He must be impartial for he knows nothing about the case . 
Thank you , ma'am , said Katy , with a promptness which assured Grace , if not her mother , that the little girl was honest . 
Well , Michael , did you find the woman at home ? asked Mrs. Gordon , as the man presented himself . 
Indeed , I deed , marm . 
What was she doing ? She was fast in bed , and told me she hadn't been out of it for twelve weeks come Saturday . 
What does the grocer say ? He says she is a very good woman , but poor and proud . 
She always paid him every cent she owed him , and he'd trust her for half he has in his shop . 
That will do , Michael you may go and the man retired with a respectful bow . 
Katy's face wore a smile of triumph , as Michael was dismissed . 
Her mother's truthfulness had been vindicated , and it was the proudest moment she had known for many a day . 
How long has your mother lived in my house ? asked Mrs. Gordon . 
About three years , ma'am and she always paid her rent till this month , replied Katy . 
If she had not , Dr . 
Flynch would have turned her into the street , added Grace and it was evident the beautiful young lady had no special regard for that worthy gentleman . 
We have tried hard enough to pay the rent this month , continued Katy and she proceeded to tell the story of the silver watch , that had belonged to her father . 
This is dreadful , mother let us do something about it , said Grace . 
Here , my child , is a receipt for your month's rent . 
Flynch comes for the money , you show him this , and he will be satisfied and she handed her the receipt . 
Katy took it , and thanked the good lady , assuring her that her mother would certainly pay the money as soon as she got well . 
My mother is poor and proud , just as the grocer said , and she don't ask any one to give her anything . 
I am going to earn some money myself , and I hope I shall be able to pay the next month's rent , added Katy , as she moved towards the door . 
But the watch , mother ? interposed Grace . 
If the little girl will come here this afternoon or to morrow morning , we will take her to the mayor who will have the case attended to . 
I will come any time , ma'am . 
The mayor is my friend , and I will call at his house with you this afternoon at three o'clock . 
Katy could not but think the mayor had a great many friends , for there was Master Simon Sneed , and Mrs. Gordon , and she knew not how many more . 
She thanked the lady very warmly for her kindness , and promising to come at the time stated , she took her leave . 
She was followed to the door by Grace , who detained her there . 
Katy , I am sure you are a very good little girl , and here is a dollar for you . 
It will buy something good for your mother . 
I thank you very much , Miss Gordon . 
I am poor , but proud , like my mother , replied she , as a flush of shame mantled her cheek . 
What a foolish little girl ! laughed Grace . 
Take it you will oblige me very much by taking it . 
No , ma'am , I can't my mother wouldn't own me if I should take money as a gift . 
But you must take it , Katy I shall be angry if you don't . 
Besides , as Grace jingled the two half dollars together , there was a harmony in the sound that suggested a great heap of good things for her mother . 
And there was another powerful consideration that weighed with great force upon her mind . 
One of those half dollars would be a sufficient capital upon which to commence her candy speculation . 
It would buy ever so much molasses of the very best quality . 
As she thought of this , she was disposed , at least , to compromise with Miss Grace . 
I cannot accept the money as a gift , but you may lend it to me , if you please , said Katy , after she had reflected a moment . 
Just as you like , laughed Grace but I shall not feel bad if you never pay me . 
I shall certainly pay it again , persisted the embryo candy merchant . 
I would not take it if I thought I could not . 
Very well but you must know I think you are a very singular little girl . 
I am poor and proud that's all . 
Katy took the loan , and with her fancy fired with brilliant expectations in regard to the candy operation , ran home to her mother as fast as her feet would carry her . 
Mrs. Redburn was much displeased with her at first for what she had done . 
Her pride revolted at the thought of begging a favor but Katy explained the matter so well that she was satisfied , though nothing was said about the loan she had obtained . 
Punctually at the appointed hour came Dr . 
Have you got the money ? he demanded in his usual bland tones , though Katy thought she could see a wicked purpose in his little gray eye . 
No , sir but That's all I desire to know , Mrs. Redburn , interrupted the agent . 
You must leave the house . 
But , sir , I have something that will do as well as the money , added the sick woman . 
Have you , indeed ? sneered Dr . 
Will you read that , sir ? said Katy , handing him Mrs. Gordon's receipt . 
The agent took the paper , and as he read , the wonted serenity of his brow was displaced by a dark scowl . 
His threats had been disregarded , and he had been reported to his employer . 
So you have been fawning and cringing upon Mrs. Gordon , growled he . 
Probably you have told her more lies than you dared tell me . 
I told her nothing but the truth , and she sent her man down here to find out all about us , said Katy , smartly . 
Very well this paper will only delay the matter for a few days when I have exposed you to her , she will acquiesce in my views and Dr . 
Flynch threw down the receipt and left the house . 
We are well rid of him , at any rate , said Katy . 
Now I will get you some dinner , for I must be at Mrs. Gordon's at three o'clock and I want to tell you about my plan too , mother . 
The active little girl made a cup of tea for her mother , and the dinner was soon dispatched . 
KATY PREPARES A STOCK OF MERCHANDISE . 
Katy had not time then to tell her mother about the candy speculation she had in view , and she was obliged to wait till her return from Temple Street . 
Before she got home she had made up her mind what she should say , and how she should defend her plan from the assaults of pride . 
Now , mother , you shall hear my plan , she continued , after she had announced the ill success of her visit to the mayor's house . 
I am going into business , and I expect to make a great deal of money . 
Are you , indeed ? replied Mrs. Redburn , smiling at the enthusiasm of her daughter . 
I am and you must not be angry with me , or object very much to my plan . 
Well , what is your plan ? I am going to sell candy , said Katy , pausing to notice the effect of this startling declaration . 
You know what nice molasses candy you used to make for me . 
Mrs. Sneed and Mrs. Colvin said a great many times that it was a good deal better than they could buy at the shops . 
But , child , I am not able to make candy now . 
I cannot get off my bed . 
I will make it you shall lay there and tell me how . 
I am sure I can make it . 
It is very hard work to pull it . 
Suppose you can make it , how will you sell it ? asked Mrs. Redburn , casting an anxious glance at the enthusiastic little girl . 
O , I shall take a box , and offer it to the folks that pass along the streets . 
Are you crazy , Katy ? exclaimed the mother , raising her head on the bed . 
I think I do , mother . 
I don't see any harm in selling candy to those who are willing to buy . 
Perhaps there is no harm in the mere act of selling candy but what a life for you to lead ! It makes me shudder to think of it . 
It is your pride , mother . 
I am thankful I have some pride left , Katy . 
But mother , we can't be poor and proud . 
We haven't got any money to proud with . 
I am proud , I know I wish I could banish it , replied Mrs. Redburn , with a deep sigh . 
Let me try the plan , mother , and if I can't get along with it , I will give it up . 
It will subject you to a great many trials and temptations . 
I can manage them , mother . 
Can you submit to the insults of evil minded persons ? Yes , mother no decent person would insult me and I don't care for others . 
I can pity them , and run away from them . 
I am not afraid of anything . 
Katy clapped her hands with joy as her mother's scruples gave way , and she found herself at liberty to carry her plan into execution . 
It seemed to her as though she had crossed the threshold of fortune and had actually entered the great temple . 
She had an opportunity to accomplish a great work , and her enthusiasm would not permit her to doubt in regard to her final success . 
I must begin now , mother , and make all the candy this afternoon , so that I can commence selling it early to morrow morning . 
I will go to the grocery now and get the molasses . 
Poor child you have nothing to get it with . 
We have no money you did not think of that . 
Yes , I did , and I have the money to buy the molasses . 
I borrowed it , replied Katy , evincing some confusion . 
You borrowed it ? Pray who would lend you money ? Miss Grace Gordon . 
Did you borrow it , Katy ? asked Mrs. Redburn , casting a reproachful glance at her . 
Yes , mother , I did . 
I would not accept money now , after what you have said to me . 
Miss Grace wanted to give it to me but I told her I could not take it . 
She laughed at me , and I said I was poor and proud . 
She would make me take it , and said so much , that , at last , I told her if she would lend it to me , I would take it . 
It was the same as a gift , said Mrs. Redburn , blushing with shame at the thought of accepting alms . 
No , it wasn't she may think it was , but I mean to pay her , and I shall pay her I know I shall . 
If you can , sighed the proud mother . 
I shall be able to pay her soon , for I mean to sell lots of candy . 
No I am sure I shall sell a good deal I mean to make people buy . 
You are beside yourself , Katy . 
It pains me to hear you talk so . 
It is sad to think a child of mine should relish such an employment as that in which you are going to engage . 
Do you remember the book my Sunday school teacher gave me last New Year's day , mother ? It was all about false pride I want you to read it , mother . 
We can't afford to be so proud . 
Go and get your molasses . 
Katy , replied Mrs. Redburn , who could not but acknowledge the truth of her daughter's remarks . 
She had read the book alluded to , and was not willing to confront the arguments it had put in the mouth of her child . 
She was conscious that her pride , which made a humble occupation repulsive to her , was a false pride . 
If it could have been carried on in private , it would not have seemed so galling . 
For years she had been a recluse from society , mingling only with her humble neighbors , and with them no more than her circumstances required . 
She had labored in solitude , and shunned observation as much as possible , by carrying her work back and forth in the evening . 
Years of hard toil had not familiarized her with the circumstances of her lot . 
She tried to be humble and submissive , but the memory of her early days could not be driven away . 
Katy returned in a few minutes with the jug of molasses . 
She bustled round and made up a good fire , got the kettle on , and everything in readiness for the work . 
Her mother gave her directions how to proceed but Katy could impart to her none of her own enthusiasm . 
When the molasses had been cooked enough , she was ready to commence the pulling , which was the most difficult part in the manufacture of her merchandise . 
Then she found that her trials had indeed commenced . 
At first the sticky mass , in spite of the butter and the flour with which she had plentifully daubed her hands , was as obstinate as a mule . 
It would not work one way or another now it melted down , and stuck to her fingers , and then it became as solid as a rock . 
But she underrated the energy of the devoted girl , who , in the face of every discouragement , stuck to the candy with as much zeal as the candy stuck to her . 
She had worked a portion of the mass into candy clear , light colored , inviting candy . 
Columbus felt no prouder of his achievement when he had crossed the Atlantic , or , Napoleon when he had crossed the Alps . 
She danced for joy as she gazed upon the clear , straight sticks of candy , as they were arranged in the pan . 
She had scarcely commenced upon the second mass before she was interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Howard , her friend Tommy's mother . 
Why , what are you doing , child ? asked the good woman . 
I thought you were all sick , and here you are making candy , as merry as on a feast day . 
I am making it to sell , Mrs. Howard , replied Katy , proudly . 
But it is very hard work , she added see how I've blistered my hands . 
Poor child ! it's enough to kill you ! exclaimed Mrs. Howard , as she glanced at the great blisters on Katy's hands . 
I have been trying to make her give up the idea , but she has more courage than I ever gave her credit for , remarked Mrs. Redburn . 
Here , child , let me help you . 
You are very kind , ma'am and I hope I shall be able to do something for you some time . 
You're a jewel and a blessing , and you're worth a dozen of the fine ladies that are too proud to lift a finger to keep their bodies from starving . 
Ah , it's a dreadful misfortune to be proud . 
To be poor and proud , said Mrs. Redburn . 
You are right , ma'am and I am glad to see you have none of it here for some of your neighbors used to say you were too proud to speak to them . 
Mrs. Redburn made no reply , and permitted her kind neighbor , whose tongue scarcely ceased to swing for a moment , to continue her remarks without opposition . 
She and Katy worked with all their might till the candy was ready for market , and when the poor invalid poured out her thanks , she ran off and left them . 
KATY MAKES A LARGE SALE . 
Katy rose the next morning bright and early , and her heart was full of hope . 
She felt that she had a great work to perform , and she was going forth to do it , resolved that no obstacle should turn her back . 
She was , therefore , prepared for all these trials , but she had braced herself up to meet them with courage and fortitude . 
Her mother was sick , and they were actually in a suffering condition . 
It was her duty , therefore , to sell candy if she could get money by it and thus consideration strengthened her heart . 
Little by little their earthly possessions had passed away . 
Mrs. Redburn had never learned how to save money and when the day of adversity came , her funds were soon exhausted . 
She had no friends to whom she dared reveal her poverty , and when want came to the door , she was too proud to beg . 
Hoping for better days , she had sold most of her best dresses , and those of Katy . 
Katy did not repine at this , though her mother did , for their pride , as my young friends have discovered , was of very different kinds . 
Katy did wish she had a little better dress , and a little better bonnet for her first attempt in the mercantile calling but there was no help for it . 
She had mended her clothes as well as she could , and as they were clean , she was pretty well satisfied with her personal appearance . 
Besides , people would not be half so apt to buy her candy if she were well dressed , as if she were rather plainly clothed . 
In short , it was all for the best . 
After breakfast she prepared herself for the duties of the day . 
Her heart beat violently with anxiety and expectation , and while she was placing the candy on the tray , which she had previously covered with white paper . 
to render her wares the more inviting , her mother gave her a long lecture on the trials and difficulties in her path , and the proper way to encounter them . 
Now , my dear child , said Mrs. Redburn , in conclusion if any evil person insults you , do not resent it , but run away as fast as you can . 
Shan't I say anything , mother ? Not a word . 
But if some naughty boy or girl , no bigger than I am myself , should be saucy to me , I think I can give them as good as they send . 
Don't do it , Katy . 
They have no business to insult me . 
That is very true but when you use bad or violent language to them , you go down to their level . 
But if they begin it ? No matter , Katy if they are unkind and wicked , it is no reason that you should be unkind and wicked . 
If you leave them without resenting their insults , the chances are that they will be ashamed of themselves before you get out of sight . 
You need not be low and vile because others are . 
I guess you are right , mother . 
I won't say a word , mother , whatever they say to me . 
I'll be as meek as Moses . 
I hope you will not be gone long , added Mrs. Redburn . 
I have thirty sticks of candy here . 
I don't think it will take me long to sell the whole of them . 
I shall be back by dinner time whether I sell them or not for you know I must go to Mrs. Gordon again to day . 
Now , good by , mother , and don't you worry about me , for I will do everything just as though you were looking at me . 
Katy closed the door behind her , and did not see the great tears that slid down her mother's pale cheek as she departed . 
She wept long and bitterly in the solitude of her chamber , and perhaps her wounded pride caused many of her tears to flow . 
But better thoughts came at last , and she took up the Bible which lay on the bed , and read a few passages . 
Then she prayed to God that he would be with Katy in the midst of the crowd , and guide her safely through the perils and temptations that would assail her . 
She read in the New Testament about the lowly life which Jesus and the apostles led , and then asked herself what right she had to be proud . 
And thus she struggled through the long hours she remained alone trying to be humble , trying to be good and true . 
Those who labor and struggle as hard as she did are always the better for it , even though they do not achieve a perfect triumph over the passions that torment them . 
Some queer ideas came into her head as she thought what she was doing . 
What would her grandfather , the rich Liverpool merchant , say , should he meet her then ? Of course he would not know her he would be ashamed of her . 
But she did not permit such reflections as these to influence her and as soon as she was conscious of the nature of her thoughts she banished them . 
I'm going to support my mother , and I have no right to be proud . 
If I meet my grandfather , I should like to sell him twenty sticks of candy . 
Hallo , Katy ! What are you going to do ? said a voice behind , which she recognized as that of her friend Tommy Howard . 
I'm going to sell this candy , replied Katy . 
You're a spunky one mother told me all about it . 
I should like two sticks , said Tommy , as he offered her the money . 
Take two , Tommy , and as many more as you like . 
Two is all I want and he placed the two cents on the tray . 
No , Tommy , I won't take your money , replied Katy , with a blush , for she felt ashamed to take his money . 
That's no way to trade , laughed Tommy . 
You won't make much , it you do so . 
Keep the money and I will keep the candy . 
I can't keep it , Tommy . 
You must if you don't take the money , I won't take the candy . 
I owe you two cents , Tommy . 
I will pay you now . 
No , you don't ! Please to take them I shall feel very bad , if you don't . 
Tommy Howard looked her in the eye a moment he saw a tear there . 
Her pride was wounded , and he took the two cents from the tray , for he did not wish to give her pain . 
Now , we are square , Tommy , said Katy , as her face brightened up again . 
Yes , we are , but I don't like it pretty well . 
One of these days , when you get out of this scrape , I will let you give me as much candy as you have a mind to . 
It was not exactly mercantile , but then the heart comes before commerce . 
As she walked along , she could not help thinking that her natural generosity might seriously interfere with the profits of her enterprise . 
She would like to do so very much indeed but it was certain she could not afford to pursue such a liberal policy . 
It was a hard question , and , hoping she should not meet any of her schoolmates , she determined to refer it to her mother for settlement . 
When she got into Washington Street , she felt that the time for action had come . 
Now was the time to sell candy and yet she did not feel like asking folks to buy her wares . 
The night before , as she lay thinking about her business , it had all seemed very easy to her but now it was quite a different thing . 
No one seemed to take any notice of her , or to feel the least interest in the great mission she had undertaken . 
But Katy was aware that it requires some effort in these days to sell goods , and she must work she must ask people to buy her candy . 
There was a nice looking gentleman , with a good natured face , coming down the street , and she resolved to make a beginning with him . 
He couldn't say much more than no to her , and she placed herself in a position to accost him . 
But when he came near enough , her courage all oozed out , and she let him pass without speaking to him . 
What a fool I am ! exclaimed she to herself when he had passed . 
I shall never do anything in this way . 
There comes another gentleman who looks as though he had a sweet tooth at any rate , he seems as good natured as a pound of sugar . 
I will certainly try him . 
Her heart pounded against her ribs as though it had been worked by a forty horse engine poor girl . 
Everything seemed to hang on the issues of that tremendous moment . 
Buy some candy ? said she , in tremulous tones , her great , swelling heart almost choking her utterance . 
I don't want any , replied the gentleman , kindly , as he glanced at the tray on which the candy had been so invitingly spread . 
It is very nice , stammered Katy and perhaps your children at home would like some , if you do not . 
Bravo , Katy ! That was very well done , though the gentleman was an old bachelor , and could not appreciate the full force of your argument . 
Are you sure it is very nice ? asked the gentleman , with a benevolent smile , when he had laughed heartily at Katy's jumping conclusion . 
I know it is , replied the little candy merchant , very positively . 
Then you may give me six sticks and he threw a fourpence on her tray . 
Six sticks ! Katy was astonished at the magnitude of her first commercial transaction . 
Have you any paper to wrap it up in ? asked the gentleman . 
Here was an emergency for which Katy had not provided . 
Her grandest expectations had not extended beyond the sale of one stick at a time , and she was not prepared for such a rush of trade . 
It was in the back room , so that she did not disturb her mother , choosing to astonish her with the whole story of her success at noon . 
KATY SELLS OUT AND VISITS THE MAYOR . 
Katy reached Washington Street once more . 
Buy some candy ? said she to the first person who passed near her . 
No ! was the prompt and emphatic answer of the gentleman addressed . 
It is very nice , suggested Katy . 
Get out of my may , growled the gentleman , and the little candy merchant deemed it prudent to heed the command . 
She was nettled by this rude reception , and would have been disposed to resent it , if there had been any way for her to do so . 
She had not yet learned to bear up against the misfortunes of trade , and her eye followed the sour gentleman far down the street . 
Katy started at the words , and reproved herself for her want of meekness . 
She might , perhaps , have sold half a dozen sticks of candy while she had been watching the sour gentleman , and persuading herself that she had been very badly used . 
She tore off a piece of paper , in which she wrapped up the candy for the purchaser , and handed it to her . 
Thank you , said she , as she picked up the copper , and transferred it to her pocket . 
Your candy looks very nice , added the lady evidently pleased with Katy's polite manners . 
It is very nice , ma'am . 
Have you sold much to day ? No , ma'am I have but just come out . 
It looks so good , I will take half a dozen sticks for the children at home . 
Thank you , ma'am you are very kind , replied Katy and her nimble fingers had soon made a nice little parcel for the lady , who gave her a fourpence . 
Here was another avalanche of good fortune , and the little candy merchant could hardly believe her senses . 
At this rate she would soon become a wholesale dealer in the article . 
Buy some candy ? said she , addressing the next person she met . 
No. Buy some candy ? she continued , turning to the next . 
No. And so she went from one to another , and no one seemed to have the least relish for molasses candy . 
She walked till she came to State Street , and sold only three sticks . 
While she was standing at the corner of State Street , waiting impatiently for customers , she saw a man with a basket of apples enter a store . 
She crossed the street to observe what he did in the store , in order , if possible , to get an idea of his mode of doing business . 
She saw him offer his apples to the clerks and others in the shop , and she was surprised and gratified to see that nearly every person purchased one or more of them . 
In her heart she thanked the apple man for the hint he had unconsciously afforded her , and resolved to profit by his example . 
They would eat it in their shops and houses and with this new idea she was encouraged to make a new effort . 
Walking along till she came to a store where there appeared to be several clerks she entered . 
Buy some candy ? she said , addressing a salesman near the window , as she raised up her ware so that he could see them . 
The clerk made no reply , but coming round from behind the counter , he rudely took her arm , opened the door , and pushed her into the street . 
Katy's cheek burned with indignation at this unprovoked assault , and she wished for the power of ten men , that she might punish the ill natured fellow as he deserved . 
He showed no disposition to resent the assault upon his obesity , and kindly caught her in his arms . 
What is the matter my dear ? said the gentleman , in soothing tones . 
That man pushed me out of the store , replied Katy , bursting into tears , for she was completely overcome by the indignity that had been cast upon her . 
Perhaps you didn't behave well . 
I am sure I did . 
I only asked him to buy some candy and he shoved me right out the door , just as though I had been a dog . 
Well , well , don't cry , my dear you seem to be a very well behaved little girl , and I wonder at finding you in such low business . 
Poor child ! exclaimed the portly gentleman , thrusting his hand deep down into his pocket , and pulling up a handful of silver . 
Here is half a dollar for you , for I know you tell the truth . 
O , no , sir I can't take money as a gift . 
Eh ? The gentleman looked astonished , and attempted to persuade her but she steadily protested against receiving his money as a gift . 
You are a proud little girl , my dear . 
I am poor and proud but I will sell you some candy . 
Well , give me half a dollar's worth . 
I haven't got so much . 
I have only fourteen cents' worth left . 
Give me that , then . 
Katy wrapped up the remainder of her stock in a piece of paper , and handed it to the gentleman , who in payment threw the half dollar on the tray . 
Never mind the change and the fat gentleman hurried away . 
She could not feel satisfied with herself , as she walked towards home , till she had argued the matter , and effected a compromise between her pride and her poverty . 
Her work was done for the forenoon , though she had plenty of candy at home . 
It was now eleven o'clock , and she had not time to sell out another stock before dinner . 
I am glad to see you , Simon , said Katy . 
Have you seen your friend the mayor ? I am sorry to inform you , Katy , that a press of business has prevented my calling on his honor . 
I am sorry for that . 
I am afraid I shall never see the watch again . 
Depend upon it , you shall . 
I pledge you my honor that I will use every exertion to recover the lost treasure . 
Just now our firm require the undivided attention of all in the store . 
I told Mrs. Gordon all about it , and she promised to speak to the mayor . 
It was unnecessary to trouble her with the matter my influence with the mayor will be quite sufficient . 
I dare say it will but when shall you see him ? Very soon , be patient , Katy . 
Mrs. Gordon promised to take me to the mayor to day , and tell him all about it . 
Take you to the mayor ! exclaimed Master simon . 
You will be afraid of him , and not able to tell your story . 
No , I guess I shan't . 
I will tell him that I have mentioned the matter to you . 
Perhaps you had better not his honor , though we have been quite intimate , may not remember my name . 
But I must leave you now , for the firm gets very uneasy in my absence . 
Simon shouldered his bundle again , and moved off , and Katy walked towards home , wondering why a person of so much importance to the Messrs . 
should be permitted to degrade himself by carrying bundles . 
When she got home , she found her mother in a very cheerful frame of mind , the result of her reading and meditation . 
Katy , you come back with an empty tray have you sold all your candy ? asked Mrs. Redburn , as she entered the room . 
Yes , mother , every stick . 
I have brought back sixty six cents , replied Katy , emptying her pocket on the bed . 
Sixty six cents ! But you had only thirty sticks of candy . 
You must not blame me for what I have done , mother I could not help it and she proceeded to narrate all the particulars of her forenoon's occupation . 
Mrs. Redburn was annoyed at the incident with the fat gentleman more so than by the rudeness to which Katy had been subjected . 
The little merchant was so elated at her success , that her mother could not find it in her heart to cast a damper upon her spirits by a single reproach . 
Perhaps her morning's reflections had subdued her pride so that she did not feel disposed to do so . 
After dinner Katy hastened at once to Temple Street again . 
To her great disappointment she found that Mrs. Gordon and her daughter had been suddenly called to Baltimore by the death of one of her husband's near relatives . 
But the kind lady had not forgotten her , and that was a great consolation . 
Michael gave her a note , directed to the mayor , which he instructed her to deliver that day . 
With the assistance of Michael , she found the house of the mayor , and though her heart beat violently she resolutely rang the bell at the door . 
Is the mayor in ? asked she of the sleek servant man that answered the summons . 
I want to see him . 
He don't see little brats like you , answered the servant , shutting the door in her face . 
She wished a dozen things all at once and among other things she wished Master Simon Sneed had been there , that he might report the circumstance to his friend the mayor . 
The sleek man servant reappeared at the door , ready to make his lowest bow to the great personage , when he beheld the flashing eye of Katy . 
How dare you ring that bell again ? snarled he . 
I want to see the mayor , I have a note for him from Mrs. Gordon , and I won't go away till I see him . 
From Mrs. Gordon ! Why didn't you say so ? You may come in . 
Katy entered at this invitation , and the man bade her wait in the hall till he informed the mayor of her errand . 
She was not a little pleased with the victory she had gained , and felt quite equal , after it , to the feat of facing the chief magistrate of the city . 
Katy looked at the candy with attention , for it looked just like one of the sticks she had sold that forenoon . 
My pa brought home lots of candy , said the little fellow , after he had satisfied himself with the survey of Katy's person . 
Do you like it ? asked she , willing to cultivate his acquaintance . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Katy . 
But her conversation was interrupted by the return of the servant , who directed Katy to follow him up stairs . 
KATY TALKS WITH THE MAYOR , AND RECOVERS THE WATCH . 
I don't know , said Katy . 
I gave you no reason to treat me in that ugly manner . 
You didn't , but , you see , I thought you was some beggar , coming to disturb his honor . 
Do I look like a beggar ? asked Katy . 
Indeed you don't that was a bad blunder of mine . 
If you mention it , I shall lose my place . 
Well , I won't say a word then but I hope you will learn better manners next time . 
Thank you , miss and be sure I'll treat you like a lady next time . 
John then conducted her up stairs into a room the walls of which were almost covered with books . 
As she entered the apartment she saw a fat gentleman sitting at the desk , very busy examining a great pile of papers . 
When he turned his head , Katy was not much surprised to see that it was the nice gentleman who had given her half a dollar for fourteen cents' worth of candy . 
Ah , my dear , is it you ! exclaimed the mayor , as he recognized the little candy merchant . 
Well my dear , what is your name ? continued the mayor . 
Katy Redburn , if you please , sir , replied Katy with another courtesy . 
I am glad you have come to me with this business , Katy . 
Mrs. Gordon speaks very handsomely of you . 
She is very kind , sir . 
The mayor listened attentively to the artless recital , and promised to do all in his power to regain the watch . 
Were you alone , Katy , when you went to the pawnbroker's ? No , sir there was one of your friends with me , replied she with a simple smile . 
One of my friends ? Yes , sir and he promised to see you about it . 
I am afraid you have been imposed upon , Katy . 
No , sir he has often spoken to me about his friend the mayor . 
But who was he ? Master Simon Sneed . 
Sneed ? Sneed ? mused the mayor . 
Yes , sir Master Simon Sneed . 
Master ? What is he ? A schoolmaster ? O , no , sir . 
Sneed ? I never heard the name before . 
Where is his store ? In Washington Street . 
O , you mean the boy that makes the fires , sweeps out , and does the errands . 
I remember him now , said the mayor , laughing heartily at poor Katy's account of Simon . 
I never heard his name before but he is the oldest boy of his age I ever saw . 
He was very kind to me . 
No doubt he is a very good boy but I supposed from your account of him that he was a member of the firm . 
Master Simon is very kind to stay with them then , and I hope the Messrs . 
Sands will properly appreciate his merit . 
Thank you , sir , replied Katy , as she took the note . 
Now , good by , Katy , and I hope you will always be as good as your candy is . 
I will try good by , sir and she left the library and passed down stairs . 
John let her out very civilly and seemed very grateful to her that she had not exposed his rudeness . 
She hastened to the City Hall , sure almost of recovering the watch , and gladdening her mother with the sight of it on her return home . 
Simon Sneed , after parting with Katy , had felt a little uneasy in relation to the watch . 
Besides , he did not exactly like the idea of Katy's going to the mayor at all . 
I will correct my error at once , for if the mayor should happen to invite me to dinner some time , very likely he would reproach me for my neglect . 
Having thus resolved to preserve his credit with the chief magistrate of the city , there was fortunately a lull in the waves of the Messrs . 
's affairs which enabled him to be absented for half an hour without serious injury to their business . 
He hastened to the pawnbroker's at which the robbery had been committed . 
I presume you know me , sir ? said Simon . 
I haven't that honor , replied the broker . 
Perhaps you may be able to recall the circumstance of a little girl presenting herself here with a silver watch . 
Then I suppose you helped her steal it . 
Such an insinuation , sir , is unworthy a gentleman , I have come , sir , with a benevolent purpose , as I came before . 
In half an hour the history of that transaction will be conveyed to the mayor who , allow me to inform you , is my friend . 
Your friend ! sneered the broker who was not particularly impressed by the magnificent manners and the magnificent speech of Master Simon . 
The little girl has just gone with a note from Mrs. Gordon of Temple Street to seek redress of the mayor . 
I doubt not you will be prosecuted at once . 
You have an opportunity to save yourself . 
What do you mean by that , you young puppy ? said the broker , angrily . 
Do you mean to say I stole the watch ? By no means only that you took what did not belong to you , replied Master Simon , blandly . 
Get out of my shop ! Understand me , sir I come as your friend . 
You are a fool , I believe . 
There was something in the earnest manner of Simon which arrested the attention of the broker , in spite of the former's high flown speech . 
He was satisfied that something had been done , and he was disposed to avoid any unpleasant consequences . 
I spoke to a policeman about the watch , said the man . 
I told him I had it , and if he found that such a watch had been stolen , it could be found at my shop . 
Keep a civil tongue in your head , growled the broker . 
I notified the police that I had it that's enough . 
Perhaps it is I will ask my friend the mayor about it and Simon moved towards the door . 
Here ! I will go up to the city marshal with you . 
May be I made a mistake in keeping the watch but if I did , it was only to prevent it from falling into the hands of some one less scrupulous than myself . 
Do I look like a thief ? asked Master Simon , indignantly . 
It don't do to judge by appearances , replied the broker , locking his shop door , and walking towards the City Hall with Simon . 
There are some very respectable thieves about . 
Master Simon Sneed was satisfied with this explanation . 
He did not care to quarrel with any one who acknowledged his respectability . 
In a few moments they reached the City Hall , and ascended the stone steps to the vestibule . 
As they did so , Katy entered from the opposite door . 
How glad I am to find you , Master Simon ! exclaimed she . 
Can you tell me where the city marshal's office is ? Here it is , Katy , replied Simon , pointing to the door . 
But what are you going to do ? I have got a note for the city marshal . 
The mayor gave it to me . 
You hear that , sir , said Master Simon to the broker , with becoming dignity . 
This , Katy , is the man that has your silver watch and he has consented to deliver it to the rightful owner . 
Let me see the note , said the broker . 
No , I won't , replied Katy , pretty sharply . 
You are a naughty man , and I won't trust you with it . 
But I will give you , the watch . 
Give it to me , and then I will show you the note , replied Katy , who was thinking more of getting the precious relic than of having the broker punished . 
The broker took the watch from his pocket and handed it to her , and in return she produced the mayor's note . 
I suppose there is no need of your delivering this note now ? continued the broker , with a cunning smile . 
No I don't care anything about it , now that I have got the watch , replied Katy , rejoiced beyond measure to recover the treasure . 
Well , then , I am somewhat acquainted with the marshal , and I will hand him the note , and explain the circumstances . 
He will be perfectly satisfied . 
Katy didn't care whether he was satisfied or not , so long as she had the watch . 
But the broker entered the marshal's office , and they could not see him put the note in his pocket . 
I am so glad I got it ! exclaimed Katy . 
I doubt whether you could have recovered it if I had not used my influence in your favor , remarked Simon , complacently . 
I went to his office , and assured him my friend the mayor had already taken the matter in hand . 
I talked pretty severely to him , and he got frightened . 
After all , the best way is to use very pointed language to these fellows . 
I thank you very much , Master Simon , and I hope I shall be able to do something for you some time . 
's affairs were suffering , perhaps , and Simon hastened back to the store , and Katy ran home to cheer her mother with the sight of the recovered relic . 
CHAPTER X. KATY , IN DISTRESS , FINDS A CHAMPION . 
Now that she had recovered the precious watch Katy had nothing to engage her attention but the business of selling candy . 
She had originated a great idea , and she was proud of it . 
Now , mother , I shall sell all this candy before dark so don't be uneasy about me . 
I am going to make lots of money , and you shall have everything you want in a few weeks , said Katy , as she put on her bonnet . 
I wish you would stay at home , and rest yourself you have done enough for one day . 
I am not tired a bit , mother I feel just as if I could walk a hundred miles . 
That's because you have got a new notion in your head . 
When she passed up the court , some of them called out to her , and asked her where she was going with all that candy . 
She took no notice of them , for they spoke very rudely , and were no friends of hers . 
Among them was Johnny Grippen , whose acquaintance the reader made on the pier of South Boston bridge . 
This young ruffian led half a dozen others down the court in pursuit of her , for possibly they were not satisfied with the cavalier manner in which Katy had treated them . 
Where are you going with all that candy ? repeated the juvenile bully , when he overtook her in Essex Street . 
I am going to sell it , replied Katy , finding she could not escape . 
Give us a junk , will you ? said Johnny . 
I can't give it away I am going to sell it , to get money for my mother . 
Won't you give a feller a piece ? I can't now perhaps I'll give you some another time . 
Katy's heart beat violently , for she was very much alarmed , knowing that Johnny had not followed her for nothing . 
As she made her firm but conciliatory reply , she moved on , hoping they would not attempt to annoy her . 
It was a vain hope , for Johnny kept close to her side , his eyes fixed wistfully on the tempting array of sweets she carried . 
Come , don't be stingy , Katy , continued Johnny . 
I don't mean to be but I don't think I owe you anything , replied Katy , gathering courage in her desperate situation . 
What do you mean by that ? demanded the little ruffian , as he placed himself in front of her , and thus prevented her further progress . 
Don't stop me I'm in a hurry , said Katy . 
Gi' me some candy , then . 
No , I won't ! answered Katy , losing her patience . 
Johnny ! shouted one of the bully's companions . 
Johnny , Tom Howard is coming . 
Let him come ! replied Johnny , doggedly . 
Now , as we have said , Johnny Grippen was a fighting character , and had a reputation to maintain . 
He gloried in the name of being able to whip any boy of his size in the neighborhood . 
On the whole he was a miserable , contemptible little bruiser whom no decent boy could love or respect . 
He talked so big about black eyes , bloody noses and smashed heads , that few boys cared to dispute his title to the honors he had assumed . 
Probably some who felt able to contest the palm with him , did not care to dirty their fingers upon the bullying cub . 
Sensible people , whether men or boys , invariably despise the fighting character , be he young or old . 
Nine times out of ten he is both a knave and a fool , a coward and a bully . 
On the other hand , Tommy Howard was one of those hearty , whole souled boys , who are the real lions of the playground . 
He was not a fighting character and being a sensible boy , he had a hearty contempt for Johnny Grippen . 
He was not afraid of him , and though he never went an inch out of his way to avoid a fight with him , it so happened they had never fought . 
He was entirely indifferent to his threats , and had no great opinion of his courage . 
But Johnny had discretion and bullies generally have it . 
He did not like that cool , independent way of the refractory vassal it warned him to be cautious . 
What's the matter , Katy ? asked Tommy , as he came with quick pace up the court , without deigning to cast even a glance at the ruffian who menaced her . 
Stand by , fellers , and see fair play , and I'll lick him now , said Johnny , in a low tone , to his companions . 
He won't let me go , replied Katy , pointing to her assailant . 
Go ahead , Katy don't mind him . 
Won't you give me some candy ? said Johnny , stepping up before her again . 
Go ahead , Katy , repeated Tommy , placing himself between her and the bully . 
Don't mind him , Katy . 
As she advanced , Johnny pushed forward , and made another dive at the tray , but Katy's champion caught him by the arm and pulled him away . 
You mind out ! growled the bully , doubling up his fists , and placing himself in the most approved attitude , in front of the unwhipped vassal . 
Come on , if you want to fight ! shouted Johnny , brandishing his fists . 
Say that again , and I'll black your eye for you . 
Once is enough , if you heard me but I will tell your father about it . 
Will you ? Just say that again . 
Somehow , it often happens that bullies want a person to say a thing over twice , from which we infer that they must be very deaf or very stupid . 
Tommy would not repeat the offensive remark , and Johnny's supporters began to think he was not half so anxious to fight as he seemed , which was certainly true . 
There must be a crowd of bruisers and scallewags around , to keep up the courage of the combatants . 
Therefore , those who look on are just as bad as those who fight , for without their presence the fight could not be carried through . 
Tommy Howard had said all he had to say , and was therefore ready to depart . 
He turned to do so , and walked several steps down the alley , though he kept one eye over his shoulder to guard against accidents . 
Hit him , Johnny ! cried one of the vagabond troops that followed in the train of the bully . 
He darsen't fight , replied Johnny . 
Nor you , nuther , added another of the supporters . 
This was too much for Johnny . 
It cut him to the quick , and he could not stand it . 
If he did not thrash Tommy now , his reputation would be entirely ruined . 
Darsen't I ? exclaimed he . 
Come back here but as Tommy did not come , he ran up behind him , and aimed a blow at the side of his head . 
Johnny's imperiled reputation rendered him desperate . 
He had gone too far to recede , and he went into action with all the energy and skill of a true bruiser . 
Tommy was now fully roused , and his blows , which were strictly in self defense , fell rapidly and heavily on the head of his assailant . 
If you are satisfied now , I'll go about my business , said Tommy , as he gazed with mingled pity and contempt upon his crest fallen assailant . 
You don't fight fair , grumbled Johnny , who could not account for his defeat in any other way . 
If you're a mind to fight fair , I'll try it again with you some time . 
I don't fight for the fun of it . 
I only fight when some cowardly bully like you comes at me , and I can't help myself . 
When you feel like whipping me again , you needn't stop to let me know it beforehand . 
Just bear that in mind . 
He did not hurt you did he ? asked Katy , as Tommy joined her at the foot of the alley , where she had been anxiously waiting the result of the encounter . 
Not a bit , Katy . 
He talks very loud , but he is a coward . 
I'm sorry I had to thrash him though I think it will do him good . 
I was afraid he'd hurt you . 
You were very kind to save me from him , Tommy . 
I shall never forget you , as long as I live , and I hope I shall be able to do something for you one of these days . 
Oh , don't mind that , Katy . 
He is an ugly fellow , and I wouldn't stand by and see him insult a girl . 
But I must go now . 
I told Johnny if he ever meddled with you again I should give him some if he does , just let me know . 
I hope he won't again , replied Katy , as Tommy moved towards home . 
This was Katy's first day in mercantile life it had been full of incidents , and she feared her path might be a thorny one . 
But her light heart soon triumphed over doubts and fears , and when she reached Washington Street , she was as enthusiastic as ever , and as ready for a trade . 
KATY MEETS WITH EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS . 
Buy some candy ? said Katy to the first gentleman she met . 
Buy some candy ? said she to a good natured young gentleman , who was leaning over his counter waiting for a customer . 
How do you sell it ? Cent a stick it is very nice . 
I sold fourteen sticks of it to the mayor this forenoon . 
He said it was good . 
You don't say so ? Did he give you a testimonial ? No he gave me half a dollar . 
The clerk laughed heartily at Katy's misapprehension of his word , and his eye twinkled with mischief . 
It was plain that he was not a great admirer of molasses candy , and that he only wanted to amuse himself at Katy's expense . 
You know what they do with quack medicines don't you ? Yes , I do some folks are fools enough to take them , replied Katy , smartly . 
That's a fact but you don't understand me . 
Swindlehanger , round the corner , would give the mayor a hundred dollars to say his patent elixir is good . 
Now , if you could only get the mayor's name on a paper setting forth the virtues of your candy , I dare say you could sell a thousand sticks in a day . 
Why don't you ask him for such a paper ? I don't want any paper , except to wrap up my candy in . 
But you don't want to buy any candy , I see and Katy moved towards some more clerks at the other end of the store . 
Yes , I do stop a minute . 
I want to buy six sticks for my children ! For what ? For my grandchildren . 
You are making fun of me , said Katy , who could see this , though the young man was so pleasant and so funny , she could not be offended with him . 
I don't believe your mother would like it , if she should hear you tell such a monstrous story . 
The young man bit his lip . 
Perhaps he had a kind mother who had taught him never to tell a lie , even in jest . 
He quickly recovered his humor , however , though it was evident that Katy's rebuke had not been without its effect . 
For how much will you sell me six sticks ? continued the clerk . 
But that is the retail price when you sell goods at wholesale you ought not to ask so much for them . 
You shall have them for five cents then , replied Katy , struck with the force of the suggestion . 
I can't afford to give so much as that . 
I am a poor man . 
I have to go to the theater twice a week , and that costs me a dollar . 
Then a ride Sunday afternoon costs me three dollars . 
So you see I don't have much money to spend upon luxuries . 
I hope you don't go out to ride Sundays , said Katy . 
What does your mother say to it ? The clerk bit his lip again . 
He did not like these allusions to his mother , who perhaps lived far away in the country , and had taught him to remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy . 
Very likely his conscience smote him , as he thought of her and her blessed teachings in the far off home of his childhood . 
I will give you two cents , said the clerk . 
I can't take that it would hardly pay for the molasses , to say nothing of firewood and labor . 
Call it three cents , then . 
No , sir the wholesale price is five cents for six sticks . 
You wouldn't be poor if you saved up your money , and kept the Sabbath . 
Your mother There , there ! that's enough . 
I will take a dozen sticks ! exclaimed the young man , impatiently interrupting her . 
A dozen ? Yes , a dozen , and there are twelve cents . 
But I only ask ten . 
No matter , give me the candy , and take the money , he replied , fearful , it may be , that she would again allude to his mother . 
Katy counted out the sticks , wrapped them up in a paper , and put the money in her pocket . 
If she had stopped at the door to study the young man's face , she might have detected a shadow of uneasiness and anxiety upon it . 
Katy , all unconscious of the great work she had done , congratulated herself on this success , and wished she might find a few more such customers . 
Glancing into the shop windows as she passed along , to ascertain whether there was a good prospect for her , she soon found an inviting field . 
It was a crockery ware store that she entered this time , and there were several persons there who seemed not to be very busy . 
Buy some candy ? said she , presenting the tray to the first person she met . 
Go home and wash your face , was the ill natured response . 
Was it possible she had come out with a dirty face ? No she had washed herself the last thing she had done . 
Buy some candy ? said she to another , with a sudden resolution not to be disturbed by the rudeness of those she addressed . 
He took a stick , and threw down a cent , without a word . 
One more did her a similar favor , and she left the store well satisfied with the visit . 
Pretty soon she came to a large piano forte manufactory , where she knew that a great many men were employed . 
Her mother had told her there was always a right way and a wrong way . 
It certainly was not right to enter in the face of a positive prohibition , and at last she decided to return to the office and ask permission to visit the workshop . 
Please may I go into the workshop ? said she , addressing the man who had purchased the candy . 
Go in ? why not ? replied he , placing his pen behind his ear , and looking at her with a smile of curiosity . 
Why , it says on the door , No admittance except on business . 
Well , I declare , you have got an amount of conscience beyond your station . 
No one thinks of taking any notice of that sign . 
Peddlers and apple men go in without a question . 
I thought you wouldn't let people go in . 
We don't like to have visitors there , for they sometimes do injury , and generally take off the attention of the men from their work . 
But you have got so much conscience about the matter , that you shall not only go in , but I will go with you , and introduce you . 
Thank you , sir I won't give you all that trouble . 
But the bookkeeper led the way to the door , and they entered a large room in which a great many men were busily at work . 
Here is a very honest little girl , said her friend , who has the very best molasses candy I ever ate . 
If any of you have a sweet tooth , or any children at home , I advise you to patronize her . 
The bookkeeper laughed , and the workmen laughed , as they began to feel in their pockets for loose change . 
It was evident that the friendly introduction was to be of great service to her . 
Katy was astonished at her good fortune , and the men were all exceedingly good natured . 
They seemed disposed to make a pleasant thing of her visit , and to give her a substantial benefit . 
But I want some of that candy , said one of the workmen . 
My little girl would jump to get a stick . 
Then she shall have some , replied Katy . 
for I will go home and get some more and she left the building and hastened home for a further supply of the popular merchandise . 
O mother ! I have sold out all my candy , and I want a lot more ! exclaimed she , as she rushed into the room , full of excitement and enthusiasm . 
Be calm , child you will throw yourself into a fever , replied Mrs. Redburn . 
You must learn to take things more easily . 
O dear ! I have only twenty sticks left . 
I wish I had a hundred , for I am sure I could sell them . 
Perhaps it is fortunate you have no more . 
But I must make some more to night for to morrow . 
Don't drive round so , Katy . 
Be reasonable , and don't think too much of your success . 
It was hard work to keep from running every step of the way but her mother's advice must be heeded , and to some extent she succeeded in controlling her violent impulses . 
It required but a few minutes to dispose of her small stock of candy . 
The workmen all hoped she would come again , and she departed highly elated at her success . 
There , mother , I have sold all the candy . 
What do you think of that ? said she , as she entered her mother's room , and threw off her bonnet and shawl . 
You have done very well , I had no idea that you could sell more than twenty or thirty sticks in a day . 
It's a great day's work , mother and if I can sell half as much in a day , I shall be satisfied . 
Don't you think I shall be able to support you ? At this rate you can do much more but , Katy , I tremble for you . 
Why , mother ? You get so excited , and run so , I am afraid it will make you sick . 
O , no , it won't , mother . 
I feel as strong as a horse . 
I am not tired in the least . 
You don't feel so now , because you are so excited by your success . 
I shall get used to it in a little while . 
I hope so , if you mean to follow this business . 
One dollar and thirty six cents , mother ! Only think of it ! But I won't jump so another day I will take it easy . 
I will try very hard but you can't think how happy I feel ! Dear me ! I am wasting my time , when I have to make the candy for to morrow . 
But , Katy , you must not do any more to night . 
You will certainly be sick . 
I must make it , mother . 
Your hands are very sore now . 
They are better and I don't feel tired a bit . 
I will tell you what you may do , if you must make the candy to night . 
I should not like to ask her . 
She's a poor woman , and it would be just the same as begging to ask her to give me her work . 
You don't understand me , Katy . 
She goes out to work whenever she can get a chance . 
Her price is ten cents an hour . 
You can engage her for one or two hours , and pay her for her labor . 
This is the only way you can get along with this business . 
It won't take more than an hour . 
Early in the evening the candy was all made , and Katy's day's work was finished . 
KATY PAYS HER DEBTS , AND TOMMY GOES TO SEA . 
Katy's second day's sales , though not so large as those of the first day , were entirely satisfactory . 
The profits , after paying for the stock and for the services of Mrs. Colvin , were nearly a dollar , and her heart beat with renewed hope at this continued success . 
Her grand idea hardly seemed like an experiment now , for she had proved that she could make good candy , and that people were willing to buy the article . 
Here she was driven out of doors , and there she was petted , and made large sales . 
So far as Katy's person and manners were concerned , she was admirably adapted to the business she had chosen . 
She was rather small in stature for one of her age , but she was very well formed , and her movements were agile and graceful . 
Her face was not as pretty as it might have been , but her expression was artless and winning . 
Her light brown hair hung in curls upon her shoulders , and contributed not a little to make up the deficiency in what the painters and sculptors would call a finely chiseled face . 
But I have said thus much about Katy's face and form in order to explain the secret of her great success as a candy merchant . 
Hundreds of persons would buy a stick of candy of a little girl with a pretty face and a graceful form , who would not do so of one less attractive . 
A person cannot succeed in business by being merely good looking , though this may sometimes be of much assistance . 
It is patience , perseverance , energy , and above all , integrity and uprightness , that lead to the true success . 
Encouraged by her prosperity , Katy continued to sell candy with about the same result as had cheered her heart on the first two days . 
Her profits , however , were not so great as on those two days , and did not average above seventy five cents a day or four dollars and a half a week . 
This was doing exceedingly well , and she had every reason to be grateful for her good fortune . 
At the end of three weeks , rent day came round again , and Dr . 
Flynch called for the money . 
These debts had pressed heavily on her mind . 
She knew that they were regarded as free gifts and her pride prompted her to remove what she considered a stain upon her character . 
Till they were paid , she felt like a beggar . 
Taking her money one day , she paid a visit to Temple Street . 
Michael opened the door and received her with a smile . 
Knowing she was in favor with his mistress , he conducted her to the sitting room , where the portraits hung . 
Those roguish eyes of the lady , who somewhat resembled her mother , were fixed on her again . 
The expression of the lady found something like its counterpart in her memory . 
Now , her mother was sick and sad she seldom smiled . 
But some time she must have been a young girl , and then she must have looked like that portrait . 
She felt just like asking Mrs. Gordon if that was her portrait , but she did not dare to do such a thing . 
While she was attentively watching the roguish lady's face , her kind friend entered the room , followed by Grace . 
How do you do , Katy ? said the former , with a benevolent smile . 
Quite well , I thank you , ma'am . 
I hope you will excuse me for coming again , replied she . 
I am very glad you have come . 
I was thinking of you the other day , and wishing I might see you , added Grace , for the Mayor told us a very pretty story about you . 
He was very good to me and I never shall forget him or you , answered Katy , warmly . 
I suppose you have come to get another receipt but I told Dr . 
Flynch not to disturb you , said Mrs. Gordon . 
O , no ma'am I didn't come for that . 
You were too kind to me before , and I have come now to pay you for that month's rent . 
No , my child you shall keep it . 
I will not take it . 
Katy's cheeks flushed , for she did not feel poor and proud then . 
But she knew the hearts of her kind friends , and left unspoken the words of indignation that trembled on her tongue . 
Please to take the money , ma'am , said she her cheeks still red with shame . 
No , my child you are a good girl I will not take your money . 
I shall feel very bad if you don't , and it will make my mother very unhappy . 
Nay , Katy , you must not be too proud . 
I am not too proud to ask or to accept a favor , but please don't make me feel like a beggar . 
You are a very strange child , said Mrs. Gordon . 
Indeed you are , added Grace I shall not feel right if you don't take this money . 
You know I promised to pay you at the time you gave me the receipt . 
I did not suppose you would , that is , I did not think you would be able to pay it . 
Your mother has got well , then ? No , ma'am she is better , but she does not sit up any yet . 
Then how did you get this money ? I earned it . 
You ! Yes , ma'am selling candy . 
Is it possible ? The mayor told me you were a little candy merchant , but I did not suppose you carried on such an extensive trade . 
I make a great deal of money almost five dollars a week and now I am able , I hope you will let me pay you . 
If you insist upon it , I shall , though I had much rather you would keep the money . 
I shall feel much better when it is paid . 
Mrs. Gordon reluctantly received the four dollars . 
It was a very small sum to her , though a very large one to Katy . 
I owe you one dollar , also , continued Katy , advancing to the side of Grace . 
Well , I declare ! laughed Grace . 
If that isn't a good one ! I promised to pay you and you know I would not take the money as a gift , replied Katy . 
I am aware that you would not , and you are the promptest paymistress I ever knew . 
With the dollar you lent me , I bought the molasses to make the first lot of candy I sold . 
Your dollar has done a great deal of good . 
I am glad it has but I don't want to take it . 
Won't you let me feel like myself ? Certainly I will , laughed Grace . 
Then let me pay my debts , and not feel just like a beggar . 
You are the queerest child I ever saw ! exclaimed Grace , as she took the dollar . 
You must bring your candy up here . 
The mayor says it is very good . 
I have a sweet tooth , and I will buy lots of it , added Grace . 
I will bring you up some to morrow , replied Katy , moving towards the door , and casting a last glance at the mischievous lady in the picture . 
The mayor told me to ask you to call and see him again , said Mrs. Gordon . 
He is very much interested in you . 
He is very kind and she bade them good by . 
Katy felt highly honored by the notice the mayor had taken of her . 
Like Master Simon Sneed , she felt almost like calling him her friend the mayor but she resolved to call upon him on her way home . 
When she returned home she found a message there from Tommy Howard , requesting to see her that afternoon . 
Tommy had been talking for a year about going to sea , and had been for some time on the lookout for a chance as a cabin boy or a reefer . 
He had told her his plans , how he intended to be a good sailor and work his way up to be captain of some fine ship . 
She suspected , therefore , that he had found a chance to go to sea , and wanted to tell her all about it . 
He had been her friend and protector . 
I am going to morrow , Katy , said he , after he had given her a seat by the window . 
To sea ? asked Katy , gloomily . 
Yes I have got a first rate ship , and she sails to morrow . 
I am so sorry you are going ! O , never mind it , Katy I shall be back one of these days . 
I wanted to tell you if Johnny Grippen gives you any impudence , to let me know and I'll lick him when I come back . 
He may if he does , you had better tell his father . 
But where are you going , Tommy ? To Liverpool . 
After a moment's thought she conceived a plan which made her heart bound with emotion . 
Under the seal of secrecy she related to her young sailor friend all the particulars of her mother's history and he wrote down the names she gave him . 
Now , good by , Tommy , said she , wiping away a tear I shall think of you every day , and pray for you too . 
I hope there won't be any storms to sink your ship . 
We shan't mind the storms . 
She felt very badly all the rest of the day , and her sales were smaller than usual , for her energy was diminished in proportion to the sadness of her heart . 
As winter approached , Katy realized that the demand for molasses candy was on the increase , and she found it necessary to make a much larger quantity . 
Mrs. Colvin still rendered her assistance for a consideration , and the supply was thus made to correspond with the demand . 
But the fond mother had never been able to reconcile herself to the business which Katy followed . 
She dreaded every day lest the temptations to which it constantly exposed her might lead her astray . 
She loved her daughter with all her heart , and she would rather have died in poverty and want than have had her corrupted . 
She had every reason to believe that Katy was the pure and innocent child she had always been but she feared , as she grew older , that some harm might befall her . 
She would rather bury her than see her become a bad person , and she hoped soon to be able to resume her own labors , and let Katy abandon her dangerous business . 
Mrs. Redburn often talked with her about the perils that lay in her path but Katy spoke like one who was fortified by good resolutions and a strong will . 
She declared that she knew what dangers were in her way , and that she could resist all the temptations that beset her . 
Whatever views the mother had , there seemed to be no opportunity to carry them out , for by Katy's labors they were fed , clothed , and housed . 
She was her mother's only support , and the candy trade , perilous as it was , could not be given up . 
Katy did not desire to abandon the business she had built up , for she was proud of her achievement . 
She was resolved to be good and true , and to her it did not seem half so perilous as to others . 
She had even indulged some thoughts of enlarging her business . 
Therefore Katy gave up the shop at once , but she did not abandon the idea of enlarging her business , though she did not exactly see how it could be done . 
One day an accident solved the problem for her , and at that time commenced a new era in the candy trade . 
One pleasant morning in November , as she walked up the court , she met Ann Grippen , a sister of Johnny who stopped to talk with her . 
The Grippen family consisted of eleven persons . 
The father was a day laborer , and as his wages were small , and he had a great many mouths to feed , they were , of course , miserably poor . 
The older children showed no ability or disposition to help their parents but spent most of their time in strolling about the streets . 
Johnny was a fair specimen of the boys , as Ann was of the girls . 
You sell lots of candy now don't you ? said Ann . 
Stop a minute won't you ? I want to speak to you . 
I will but be as quick as you can , for I am in a hurry . 
Don't you think I could sell candy ? continued Ann . 
I dare say you could . 
Why don't you try , if you want to ? But I haven't got no candy and mother can't make it , as you can . 
If you are a mind to let me have some , I will sell it for you , and you may give me what you like . 
The idea struck the little merchant very favorably . 
There were a great many girls just like Ann Grippen , who were wasting their time about the streets , and learning to be wicked . 
Why couldn't she employ them to sell candy ? I will try you , replied Katy . 
Well , I'm all ready to begin . 
Not yet , said the little candy merchant , with a smile . 
Your face and hands are very dirty . 
What odds will that make ? asked Ann , rather indignantly . 
Do you suppose anybody would eat a stick of candy after you had touched it with those dirty fingers ? Your customers would be afraid of being poisoned . 
I s'pose I can wash 'em , replied Ann , who seemed still to regard it as a very unnecessary operation . 
It would be a good plan and while you are about it you must not forget your face . 
I will wash my face and hands both , if that's all . 
Your dress is very dirty and very ragged . 
I can't afford to dress like a lady , said Ann , who had some of her brother's disposition , and under any other circumstances would have resented Katy's plain home thrusts . 
You needn't dress like a lady but the neater and cleaner you are , the more candy you will sell . 
I will fix up as much as I can . 
Very well if you will come to my house to morrow morning , I will let you have some candy . 
How much will you give me for selling it ? asked Ann . 
I can't tell now I will think about it , and let you know when you come . 
Katy went her way , turning over and over in her mind the scheme which Ann's application had suggested to her . 
She might employ a dozen girls , or even more than that , and pay them so much a dozen for selling the candy . 
She might then stop going out to sell herself , and thus gratify her mother . 
She could even go to school , and still attend to her business . 
When she returned home at noon , she proposed the plan to her mother . 
Mrs. Redburn was much pleased with it , though she suggested many difficulties in the way of its success . 
The girls might not be honest but if they were not , they could be discharged . 
Katy determined to employ the best girls she could find , and to tell them all that they must behave like ladies . 
The next morning Ann Grippen appeared with her face and hands tolerably clean , and wearing a dress which by a liberal construction could be called decent . 
Now , Ann , you must be very civil to everybody you meet , said Katy , as she covered the rusty tray with a sheet of clean white paper . 
I hope I know how to behave myself , replied Ann , rather crustily . 
I dare say you do and she might have hinted that there was some difference between knowing how to do a thing and doing it . 
I was only going to tell you how to sell candy . 
If you don't want me to tell you , I won't . 
I should like to have you tell me , but I guess I know how to behave . 
You must be very civil to everybody , even when they don't speak very pleasant to you . 
When any one buys any candy of you , you must always say , Thank you' and then the next time you meet the person he will buy again . 
How much you going to give me for selling ? demanded Ann , abruptly cutting short the instructions . 
Mother thinks you ought to have four cents a dozen . 
Four cents ? My mother says I ought to have half , and I ain't going to sell your candy for no four cents a dozen . 
Very well you needn't if you don't wish to do so and Katy removed the sheet of white paper she had placed over the dirty tray . 
You ought to give me half I get , added Ann , rather softened by Katy's firmness and decision . 
I often sell a hundred sticks in a day . 
Well , I don't care I will try it once . 
If we find we can afford to pay any more than four cents , we will do so . 
Katy covered the tray again , and arranged two dozen sticks on it in an attractive manner . 
After giving Ann some further instructions in the art of selling candy , she permitted her to depart on her mission . 
She was not very confident in regard to her success for Ann was too coarse and ill mannered for a good sales woman . 
She hoped for the best , however , and after preparing her own tray , she went out to attend to business as usual . 
In the court she saw Master Simon Sneed , who was sitting on his father's doorstep . 
She noticed that he looked sad and downhearted and when he spoke to her the tones of his voice indicated the same depression of spirits . 
Have you seen the Mayor lately , Katy ? asked Simon , as he approached . 
Not very lately I should like to see him , added he , raising his eyes to her . 
Why don't you call upon him ? You know where he lives don't you ? Yes , but Master Simon paused , as though he did not like to explain the reason . 
Katy waited for him to proceed , but as he did not , she remarked that he looked very sad , and she hoped nothing had happened . 
Something has happened , replied he , gloomily . 
Nothing bad , I hope . 
I have left my place at Sands Co . 
Left it ? Why , how can they possibly get along without you ? exclaimed Katy . 
I shouldn't think they would have let you go . 
Nor I but some men never know when they are well used . 
How did it happed ? I asked them for an increase of salary , and told them I could stay no longer unless they did so . 
And what do you think they did ? I don't know I should suppose they would have raised your salary . 
No , Katy , added Simon , bitterly . 
Mr. Sands told me I might go he wouldn't have me at any rate . 
Wasn't that cool ? Well , well if they don't know their own interest , they must bear the consequences . 
If they fail , or lose all their trade , they can't blame me for it . 
Now I have nothing to do and I was just thinking whether my friend the mayor couldn't help me into a situation . 
I dare say he can . 
Why don't you call and see him at once ? I don't like to do so . 
He sees so many persons that I really don't think he would recollect me . 
I must get something to do , though for my father is sick , and winter is coming on . 
How much salary did you get , Master Simon ? asked Katy , who highly approved his determination not to be a burden upon his father . 
Two dollars and a half a week . 
Is that all ! Yes they ought to have given me ten . 
Even that was better than nothing . 
I was thinking of something , Master Simon , said Katy , after a pause . 
What , Katy ? I make four or five dollars a week . 
Is it possible ! If you have a mind to sell candy , I will furnish you all you want , so that you can make at least three dollars a week . 
The lip of Master Simon slowly curled , till his face bore an expression of sovereign contempt . 
What have I done , Katy , that you should insult me ? Do you think I have sunk so low as to peddle candy about the streets ? said he , contemptuously . 
Do you think I have sunk very low , Master Simon ? asked Katy , with a pleasant smile on her face . 
Your business is very low , he replied , more gently . 
You know best but if I can do anything for you , Master Simon , I shall be very glad to do so . 
Thank you , Katy you mean right , but never speak to me about selling candy again . 
I think you can help me . 
I will see you again when I get my plan arranged . 
In the meantime , if you happen to meet my friend the mayor , just speak a good word for me . 
I will and Katy left him . 
MASTER SIMON SNEED MAKES A MISTAKE . 
Contrary to the expectations of Katy and her mother , Ann Grippen returned at noon with her tray empty , having sold the whole two dozen sticks . 
Well , Ann , how do you like the business ? asked Katy . 
Here is twenty four cents , replied Ann and it was evident , from her good natured laugh , that she was much encouraged by her success . 
You may give me sixteen the other eight belong to you . 
I think I can do something at it , added Ann , as she regarded with much satisfaction the first money she had ever earned in her life . 
Katy , said her mother , who was sitting in her rocking chair , by the fire . 
What , mother ? Come here a moment . 
Katy crossed the room to her mother , to hear what she wished to say . 
You must not talk to her in that style , said Mrs. Redburn , in a tone so low that Ann could not hear her . 
Why not , mother ? I was only telling her how to do . 
But you speak in that tone of superiority which no one likes to hear . 
You are but a child , as she is , and she will not listen to such advice from you . 
Katy wondered what her mother would have thought if she had heard what she said to Ann the day before . 
Yet she was conscious that she had put on airs , and talked like a very old and a very wise person . 
I suppose you would like to go out again this afternoon , resumed Katy , joining her assistant again . 
I don't care if I do . 
Well , come this afternoon , and you shall have some more candy and Ann ran home to get her dinner . 
I think my plan will work well , mother , said Katy , when she had gone . 
It has so far , but you must not be too sure . 
I hope you will not attempt to lecture them as you did her . 
Why , mother , I know all about the business and they don't know anything . 
I doubt not you are competent to advise them but the manner in which you address them is more offensive than the matter . 
Your knowledge of the business makes you treat them as inferiors . 
You must not think too much of yourself , Katy . 
No danger of that , mother . 
I am afraid there is . 
But I am not a person in authority , mother , laughed Katy . 
You will be , if you employ a dozen girls to sell candy for you . 
After Katy had eaten her dinner , and fitted out Ann Grippen , she left the house in search of some more assistants . 
She was well known to all the boys and girls in the neighborhood and when she stated her object to one and another of them , she was readily understood . 
To help her cause , it had begun to be known that Ann Grippen had been seen with a clean face , selling candy in the street . 
She had no difficulty , therefore , in procuring the services of half a dozen girls , who were delighted with the plan especially when Katy informed them of Ann's success . 
On her return home , she found that Simon Sneed had called to see her , and she immediately hastened to his house . 
When she knocked , he came to the door and invited her into the palor . 
Well , Katy , I have hit upon something , said he . 
I am glad you have . 
I went down town after I saw you , and hearing of a place in Tremont Row , I went to apply for it . 
Did you get it ? Not yet , but I hope to get it . 
They agreed to give me three dollars a week if everything proved satisfactory but they wanted a recommendation from my last employers . 
Of course they will give you one . 
No , they would not they were offended because I left them . 
Then you asked them ? Yes , I went after one this afternoon , and they would not give it to me . 
I did not much expect they would , and so I informed Messrs . 
Runn Reed , the firm to which I have applied for an engagement . 
I told them exactly how the case stood that I had demanded higher wages , and the Messrs . 
Sands were angry with me for doing so , and for that reason refused the testimonial . 
They saw through it all , and understood my position . 
When I spoke to them about my friend the mayor , they looked surprised , and said a recommendation from him would satisfy them . 
So you see just how I am situated . 
Why don't you go to him at once , and ask him for the recommendation ? said Katy wondering why he hesitated at so plain a case . 
But Master Simon had some scruples about doing so . 
He was old enough to know that it was rather a delicate business to ask a man in a high official station for a testimonial on so slight an acquaintance . 
The mayor was interested in Katy , though she did not presume to call him her friend . 
She had twice called upon him , and she might again . 
I don't like to ask him , Katy . 
I feel some delicacy about doing so . 
I should just as lief ask him as not , if I were you . 
I am afraid you are too proud , Master Simon . 
I am proud , Katy that's just it . 
I was born to be a gentleman , but I submit to my lot . 
I am willing to sell my talents and my labor for money . 
If I can once get in at Runn Reed's , I am sure they will appreciate me , and consider it a lucky day on which they engaged me . 
If you want me to go to the mayor's house with you , I will , said Katy , who did not clearly comprehend Simon's wishes . 
Well , I think I will not go myself , replied Simon . 
Why not ? I do not like to place myself in a humiliating posture before great men . 
If I were mayor of Boston , I should like to do him the favor which I ask for myself . 
When I am You haven't asked him , Master Simon . 
In a word , Katy , I want you to ask him for me . 
You will do me a great favor . 
I will , replied Katy , promptly . 
You can state the case , and inform him who I am , and what I am that you know me to be honest and faithful . 
You can tell him , too , that I am a gentlemanly person , of pleasing address . 
But I can't remember all that , interposed Katy . 
Tell him what you can recollect , then . 
He is an easy , good natured man , and will give you the testimonial at once . 
Suppose you write a paper , just such as you want , Master Simon . 
Then he can copy it . 
Well I will do that . 
I have left a blank space for his honor's signature , continued Master Simon , when he had read the modest document . 
What do you think of it , Katy ? It is very fine . 
What a great scholar you must be ! I should think you'd write a book . 
Perhaps I may one of these days . 
I will go right up to the mayor's house now , said Katy , as she bade him good afternoon . 
Before she went , she returned home and nicely enclosed six sticks of candy in white paper as a present for Freddie , the mayor's little son . 
On her way up to Park Street she opened Simon's paper , and read it . 
She reached the mayor's house , and as it was his time to be at home , she was conducted to the library . 
Ah , Katy , I am glad to see you , said he , taking her hand . 
I have brought this candy for Master Freddie . 
You are very good , and I suppose you are so proud that I must not offer to pay you for it . 
If you please , don't , sir , replied Katy , unconsciously taking Master Simon's testimonial from her pocket . 
I don't want you to pay me in money , but you may pay me in another way , if you please . 
May I ? What have you in your hand ? A paper , sir . 
You remember Master Simon Sneed ? No , I don't . 
The young man at Sands Co . 
O , yes the young gentleman that uses so many long words . 
He has left his place , and wants to get another . 
He has left it ? Why was that ? He asked for more wages . 
He has found another place , which he can have if he can get a testimonial . 
Let him ask Sands Co . 
They won't give him one , because they are so angry with him for leaving them . 
Does he , indeed , laughed the mayor . 
He said , as you are his friend , you would not object to giving him one . 
What have you in your hand , Katy ? Has he written one to save me the trouble ? laughed the mayor . 
I asked him to do so . 
You can copy it off , if you please , sir . 
The mayor took the testimonial and proceeded to read it . 
Katy had already concluded from his manner that the business was not all correct , and she wished herself out of the scrape . 
He finished the reading , and then burst into a violent fit of laughter . 
Your friend is very modest , Katy my friend Mr. Simon Sneed . 
I hope I haven't done anything wrong , sir ? stammered Katy . 
No , Katy you have been imposed upon by a silly young man . 
Did he think I would recommend him , when I know nothing about him ? He is a conceited puppy , and , in my opinion , a worthless fellow . 
One of these days he will be an honor and an ornament' to the workhouse , if he does business in this manner . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Katy , frightened at the remarks of the mayor . 
Now , Katy , we will go to the store of the Messrs . 
, and find out about this young man . 
I will meet you there at half past four . 
Freddie thinks ever so much of you now , and in his behalf I thank you for the candy . 
Katy did not know exactly what to make of her position but at the time fixed , she was at the store of Sands Co . 
, where the mayor soon joined her . 
Now , Katy , you shall hear what his employers say of Master Simon , said he and she followed him into the store . 
The mayor stated his business , and inquired concerning the character of Simon . 
He is honest , and did his work very well , replied Mr. Sands . 
Katy was pleased to hear this , and the mayor confessed his surprise . 
But he was an intolerable nuisance about the store , continued Mr. Sands . 
With only a small amount of modesty , he would have done very well as it was , he was the biggest man in our employ . 
Our customers were disgusted with him , and we had been thinking of getting rid of him for a long time . 
When he asked for more wages , impudently declaring he would leave if we did not accede to his demand , we discharged him . 
In a word , I wouldn't have him round the store at any price . 
As I supposed , replied the mayor , as he showed Mr. Sands the recommendation Simon had written . 
This sounds just like him . 
Katy pitied poor Simon now that she understood him , and she went home determined to tell him all that had passed between the mayor and herself . 
KATY GETS A LETTER FROM LIVERPOOL . 
Master Simon Sneed sat at the window when Katy returned , and she had to tell him all about it . 
She pitied him , poor fellow , and she hoped the lesson would do him good . 
She did not like to tell him so many unpleasant things , for they would wound his pride . 
Well , Katy , what did my friend the mayor say ? asked Simon , as he joined her on the sidewalk . 
I am afraid you will not call him your friend after this , replied Katy . 
Didn't he give you the paper ? He did not . 
I didn't think that of him . 
He said he did not know you . 
But I showed him your paper , in which you had written down what you thought of yourself . 
Well , what did he say to that ? asked Simon , eagerly . 
I thought he would split his fat sides laughing . 
He didn't seem to believe a word of it . 
He didn't ? I am surprised at that . 
He said you were a conceited puppy . 
I always took the mayor for a sensible fellow I see I have been mistaken . 
He didn't like it because you sent me to him upon such an errand . 
He said you had imposed upon me . 
Go on , Katy I may expect anything after what you have said , replied Simon , with all the coolness and indifference he could command . 
He said he believed you were a worthless fellow . 
Then he told me to meet him at the store of the Messrs . 
, and he would inquire about you . 
I hope you called the mayor's attention to it , interrupted Master Simon . 
What else did he say ? He said you were a nuisance Observe how far his prejudices carried him . 
That man believed , if I stayed in the store , that I should supplant him and his partner . 
You see how far he carried his spite . 
But he said all the good he could of you Simon , said Katy . 
He said you were honest and did your work well . 
Can a nuisance be honest , and do work well ? Hath not a Jew eyes ? queried Mr. Simon , with dramatic fervor . 
He didn't say anything about Jews . 
I was quoting Shakspeare , the immortal bard of Avon . 
He said his customers were disgusted with you . 
You talked so big and thought so much of yourself , he would not have you in the store at any price . 
But I should think that Runn Reed would be glad to have you if you can carry so much trade with you . 
They cannot know till I have had a chance to show them what I can do . 
I hope you will soon have such a chance . 
There is one thing about it when I do , Sands Co . 
will see the mistake they have made . 
I think the ladies that visit their store will miss a familiar face . 
They used to insist upon my waiting upon them , though it was not exactly in the line of my duty to sell goods . 
Often was I called away from the bundle department to attend them . 
No one seemed to suit them but me . 
Why , it was only the day before I left that an elegant , aristocratic lady from Beacon Street made me go clear home with her . 
Why , what for ? To carry her bundle but that was all a pretense . 
Did she invite you to tea , Master Simon ? asked Katy , who could hardly help laughing in his face . 
No , but she kept me quarter of an hour at the door . 
You think she was smitten ? laughed Katy . 
I have an opinion , replied Simon , sagely . 
There are a good many fine ladies will miss my face . 
Katy didn't think any fine lady could be much charmed with that thin , hatchet face and she realized now that Master Simon was a great heap of vanity . 
She never thought before that he could be so silly . 
I must go now , said Katy . 
If you don't find anything you like better , you can sell candy , you know . 
Katy ! exclaimed Simon , sternly . 
I am poor and proud , Master Simon I am too proud to be dependent , or do anything mean and wicked but I am not too proud to sell candy . 
I am , replied Simon , with dignity . 
Then yours is a foolish pride , replied Katy , with a smile to soften the hard words and she walked away toward her own house . 
Katy had to work very hard that evening , in making candy for her assistants to sell , and it was nine o'clock before she was ready to go to bed . 
The next morning , all the girls who had engaged to come , appeared with their trays , and were supplied with candy . 
Katy instructed them very modestly in the art of selling taking upon herself no airs , and assuming no superiority . 
Ann Grippen came with them , and seemed to be very much pleased with her new occupation . 
At noon they all returned , though only two of them had sold out their two dozen sticks . 
Katy gave them further instructions in regard to the best places to sell candy , and when they came home at night , all but one had disposed of their stock . 
The experiment , therefore was regarded as a successful one . 
The next day several other girls , who had heard of Katy's plan , came to the house , and wanted to be engaged . 
The little merchant could not supply them , but promised , if they would come the next day , to furnish them with a stock . 
Even now , the quantity manufactured required the services of Mrs. Colvin for three hours , and this day she engaged her to come immediately after dinner . 
I need not detail the manner in which Katy's trade kept increasing . 
In a fortnight she had more than a dozen girls employed in selling candy . 
She was actually making a wholesale business of it , and no longer traveled about the streets herself . 
One day she received a call from Michael , Mrs. Gordon's man , requesting her attendance in Temple Street . 
She obeyed the summons but when she met Mrs. Gordon and Grace , she was alarmed to see how coldly and reproachfully they looked upon her . 
I have heard a very bad story about you , Katy , said Mrs. Gordon . 
About me ? gasped she . 
Yes and I was very sorry to hear it . 
What was it , ma'am ? I hope I haven't done anything to lose your good will . 
I am afraid you have . 
I don't believe she did it , mother , said Grace . 
She is too good to do any such thing . 
What is it ? Do tell me . 
I have been told that a little girl , who sells candy , has been playing tricks upon passers by in the streets that she tells lies and deceives them . 
I never did such a thing ! protested Katy , her cheeks covered with the blush of indignation . 
Mrs. Gordon explained the deception , and spoke in very severe terms of it . 
The trick had been played off on a friend of hers , who had told of it the evening before . 
When was it , ma'am ? asked Katy . 
I was in school then . 
Besides , I haven't sold any candy in the street for more than three weeks . 
I knew it wasn't she ! exclaimed Grace triumphantly . 
I was very unwilling to believe it , added Mrs. Gordon but the description seemed to point you out as the little deceiver . 
I wouldn't do such a thing , ma'am . 
If you inquire you will find that I have been in school every day this week . 
I believe you , Katy . 
Who played this trick ? said she to herself when she got into the street . 
If I can only find out , I will discharge her . 
She will bring the business into contempt . 
Of course no one would own it , and the only way she could find out was by watching them . 
It must be stopped , for , besides being too honest to allow such deception , Katy saw that it would spoil the trade . 
When she got home , she found a letter which the penny post had brought , directed to her in large schoolboy hand . 
It is from Tommy , exclaimed she , eagerly seizing the letter and retiring to a corner to read it . 
You and Tommy are great friends , said her mother . 
Katy broke the seal , and as this letter contained some very important information , my young readers may look over her shoulder while she reads it . 
It was as follows Liverpool , Nov . 
Dear Friend I take my pen in hand to let you know that I am well , and I hope these few lines will find you enjoying the same blessing . 
I arrived to Liverpool safe and sound , and when I got home , I will tell you all about it . 
Just as we got in to the dock , I kept thinking about what you told me . 
They won't let us have any fires on board ship in the docks so we all board ashore . 
I asked the man where we stopped if he knew such a merchant as Matthew Guthrie . 
He did not know him , and never heard of him . 
Then I went round among the big merchants , and asked about your grandfather . 
I asked a good many before I found one who knew him , and he said your grandfather had been dead ten years . 
I asked him where the family was . 
He said Mr. Guthrie had only two daughters that one of them had run away with her father's clerk , and the other was married and gone to America . 
He said her husband belonged to Baltimore . 
This was all he knew about it , and all I could find out . 
We shall sail home in about three weeks . 
I thought you would like to know so I wrote this letter to send by the steamer . 
Drop in and see my mother , and tell her I am well , and had a tiptop voyage over . 
No more at present from Your affectionate friend , THOMAS HOWARD . 
Katy read the letter twice over , and then gave it to her mother , after explaining that she had told Tommy her story , and requested him to inquire about her grandfather . 
Mrs. Redburn was too much affected by the news from her early home to find fault with Katy for what she had done . 
ANN GRIPPEN PLAYS TRICKS UPON TRAVELERS . 
After she had delivered their candy , she put on her things and followed the girls down to State Street , where they separated . 
Ann went up Court Street , and Katy decided that she needed watching , and so she followed her . 
It was a very tedious afternoon to the little wholesale merchant , but the dignity of the trade depended upon her efforts in seeking the offender . 
Ann entered various shops , and seemed to be having very good luck with her stock . 
At last she appeared to grow tired of her labors , and turned into an alley . 
Katy wondered what she was going to do there , for it was certainly no place to sell candy . 
Presently she heard Ann crying with all her might and crying so very naturally that she could hardly persuade herself that it was not real . 
Katy was indignant when she saw so much valuable merchandise thus ruthlessly mutilated , and the sale of it spoiled . 
She was disposed to present herself to the artful girl , and soundly lecture her for the deceit and wickedness but she wanted to see how the game was played . 
Boo , hoo , hoo ! sobbed Ann Grippen , apparently suffering all the pangs of a broken heart , which could not possibly be repaired . 
What is the matter , little girl ? asked a benevolent lady , attracted by the distress of Ann . 
Boo , hoo , hoo ! cried Ann , unable to speak on account of the torrents of wo that overwhelmed her . 
Don't cry , little girl , and tell me what the matter is , continued the kind lady . 
Boo , hoo , hoo ! I fell down and broke all my candy , sobbed Ann . 
Poor child ! exclaimed the sympathizing lady . 
My father'll beat me because I didn't sell it , added Ann . 
He is a cruel man . 
Are you sure he will punish you ? Yes , ma'am , groaned Ann . 
He'll whip me almost to death if I don't bring home half a dollar . 
You can tell him you fell down and broke the candy , suggested the lady . 
He won't believe me he'll say I sold the candy and spent the money . 
You can show him the pieces . 
Boo , hoo , hoo ! Then he'll say I broke it on purpose , because I was too lazy to sell it and then he'll kill me I know he will . 
I will go and see him , and tell him about the accident . 
Where do you live ? Down North Square . 
He ain't to home now , replied Ann , who was not quite prepared for this method of treating the subject . 
Poor child ! I pity you , sighed the lady . 
O , dear me ! cried Ann , exerting herself to the utmost to deepen the impression she had made . 
How much do you want to make up the value of your candy ? Half a dollar . 
There it is , poor child ! If it will save you from abuse , you are welcome to it . 
It may save my life , replied Ann , as she took the half dollar and put it in her pocket . 
Katy was curious to know what her unworthy assistant would do next , and she followed her down Hanover Street , and saw her stop before the American House . 
What is the matter with that girl ? asked a gentleman , who presently appeared at the door , addressing another who was just behind him . 
It is the broken candy dodge , replied the second gentleman . 
That trick has been played off a dozen times within a week . 
What does it mean ? asked the first . 
The second explained the trick , precisely as Katy had just witnessed it in Court Street . 
Now , don't say a word , he continued . 
I have a counterfeit half dollar in my pocket , and you shall see how it is done . 
How abominably wicked she is , exclaimed Katy , as she followed her up the street . 
But I will soon spoil all her fun , and cut off her profits . 
I will teach her that honesty is the best policy . 
It was easier for Katy to resolve what to do than it was to do it for the wicked girl could easily get her stock through another person . 
As she walked up the street , Ann lightened her load by eating the pieces of broken candy , upon which she seemed to feed with hearty relish . 
Katy could hear enough of their conversation , as she followed them , to ascertain that they were talking about the tricks Ann had practiced . 
In the court they seated themselves on a door stone , and as they talked and laughed about the deceit , they ate the pieces of candy . 
There , said Ann , I have made a dollar and ten cents this afternoon . 
You don't catch me walking all over the city for twenty four cents , when I don't get but eight of that . 
I ain't so smart as you , modestly replied Julia Morgan , the other girl . 
You'll learn , said Ann , as she took out her money and exhibited the two half dollars . 
I don't think people would believe me , if I should try that game . 
I think I shall , for I've about used up the broken candy game . 
What other ? I have one , replied Ann , prudently declining to divulge her secret and when I've tried it , I'll tell you all about it . 
Why don't you try it now ? I would if my candy wasn't broken . 
I will let you have mine . 
I will when I've done with it . 
No , you don't , laughed Julia , who justly inferred that if Ann would cheat one person , she would another . 
But Ann was so much interested in the experiment that she decided to give the fourteen cents , and took the candy . 
Now you go away , said Ann to her companion , as she placed herself on the steps of the Merchants Bank . 
I haven't sold out , sobbed Ann . 
What if you haven't ? Why need you cry about it ? asked the stranger . 
My mother will kill me if I go home without half a dollar . 
She is a cruel woman , then . 
Boo , hoo , hoo ! She'll beat me to death ! O , dear me ! I only got ten cents . 
Why don't you fly round and sell your candy ? said the gentleman . 
I can't now , the folks have all gone , and it's almost dark . 
Don't give it to her , said Katy , stepping out of the lane by the side of the bank . 
She has deceived you , sir . 
Deceived me , has she ? added the stranger as he glanced at Katy . 
She has got more than a dollar in her pocket now . 
Don't you believe her , sobbed Ann , still prudently keeping up the appearance of grief . 
How do you know she has deceived me ? asked the stranger , not a little piqued , as he thought how readily he had credited the girl's story . 
Because I saw her play a trick just like this twice before this afternoon . 
She has two half dollars in her pocket now , though one of them is counterfeit . 
What do you mean by that , Katy Redburn ? demanded Ann , angrily , and now forgetting her woe and her tears . 
You speak very positively , said the gentleman to Katy and if what you say is true , something should be done about it . 
She is telling lies ! exclaimed Ann , much excited . 
We can soon determine , for here comes a policeman , and I will refer the matter to him . 
But she made a bad mistake , for , not seeing in what direction the officer was approaching , she ran into the very jaws of the lion . 
Stop her ! shouted the gentleman . 
The policeman laid a rude hand upon her shoulder , and marched her back to the bank . 
In a few words the gentleman stated what had happened , and requested the officer to search her , and thus decide whether Katy told the truth or not . 
He readily consented , and on turning out Ann's pocket , produced the two half dollars , one of which the gentleman decided was a counterfeit coin . 
How could you know this was a counterfeit ? he asked of Katy . 
I shall have to take you to the lock up , my little joker , said the policeman . 
O , dear me ! cried Ann , and this time she was in earnest . 
Please don't do that ! said Katy , who had not foreseen this consequence of the game . 
I must it is downright swindling . 
Please don't she has a father and mother and I dare say they will feel very bad about it . 
I promise you she shall never do it again , pleaded Katy . 
I must do my duty . 
This candy trick has been played a good many times , and has become a nuisance . 
I must lock her up . 
Save me , Katy , save me ! begged Ann terrified at the thought of being put in a prison or some dreadful place . 
Why do you wish to save her ? interposed the gentleman . 
Because her mother will feel so bad and she will lay it all to me . 
Katy told him all about herself and about Ann , and he was so much interested in her that he joined in pleading for Ann's release . 
Ann heard her in silence and with humility , and the little moralist hoped the event would result in good to her . 
THE SUN SETS , AND THE NIGHT COMES ON . 
My young readers may have supposed that Katy and her mother had gathered a great deal of money in the candy trade . 
It was not so , for as the business increased , and Katy's labors as a saleswoman were withdrawn , the expenses increased , and the profits were proportionally less . 
It is true they lived very well , much better than people in their circumstances ought to have lived . 
Therefore , notwithstanding their prosperity , they had saved but a small sum from the proceeds of the year's business . 
Both Katy and her mother , while they were gathering the treasures of this world , were also laying up treasures in heaven , where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt . 
Want had taught them its hard lessons , and they had come out of the fiery furnace of affliction the wiser and the better for the severe ordeal . 
The mother's foolish pride had been rebuked , the daughter's true pride had been encouraged . 
They had learned that faith and patience are real supports in the hour of trial . 
She had chosen the good way , as Ann Grippen had chosen the evil way . 
I do not mean to say her character was formed , or that having chosen to be good , she could not afterwards be evil . 
As a child she had done the duties of the full grown woman , and she had done them well . 
She had been faithful to herself . 
Providence kindly ordains that the child shall serve a long apprenticeship before it is called upon to think and act for itself . 
Katy had anticipated the period of maturity , and with the untried soul of a child , had been compelled to grapple with its duties and its temptations . 
As her opportunities to be good and do good were increased , so was her liability to do wrong . 
She had her faults , great , grave faults , but she was truly endeavoring to overcome them . 
Tommy had returned from his voyage to Liverpool , and joyous was the meeting between Katy and her sailor friend . 
It took him all the evenings for a week to tell the story of his voyage , to which Mrs. Redburn and her daughter listened with much satisfaction . 
He remained at home two months , and then departed on a voyage to the East Indies . 
In the spring he obtained a situation in a small retail store where there was not a very wide field for the exercise of his splendid abilities . 
He had been idle all winter , and when he lamented his misfortunes to Katy , she always asked why he did not sell candy . 
He was above being a mechanic , and he would never soil his hands with dirty work . 
Katy began to think he was really a fool . 
She could scarcely think him poor and proud he was only poor and foolish . 
At the close of Katy's first year in trade , a great misfortune befell her in the loss of Mrs. Colvin , her able assistant in the manufacturing department of the business . 
would not let her refuse it . 
The good woman was scarcely less affected , and made Katy and her mother promise an early visit to her farm . 
Katy tried to secure another woman for this labor , but could not find a person who would serve her in this capacity . 
After a vain search , Mrs. Redburn thought she was able to do the work herself , for her health seemed to be pretty well established . 
Katy would not consent that she should do it alone , but agreed to divide the labor between them . 
This toil weighed heavily on Katy's rather feeble constitution but all her mother could say would not induce her to abandon the work . 
For a month they got along tolerably well , and , perhaps , no evil consequences would have followed this hard labor , if everything else had gone well with Katy . 
The girls who sold the candy had for some time caused her considerable trouble and anxiety . 
Very often they lost their money , or pretended to do so , and three or four of them had resorted to Ann Grippen's plan of playing trick upon travelers . 
These things annoyed her very much , and she cast about her for a remedy . 
One day , three girls , each of whom had been supplied with half a dollar's worth of candy , did not appear to account for the proceeds . 
Here was a loss of a dollar in one day . 
Such things as these are the common trials of business but Katy who was so scrupulously honest and just herself , was severely tried by them . 
It was not the loss of the money only , but the dishonesty of the girls that annoyed her . 
What shall be done , mother ? said she , anxiously , when the loss was understood to be actual . 
I can't find these girls . 
I don't even know their names . 
Probably , if you did find them , you could not obtain any satisfaction . 
I went to see one girl's mother the other day , you know , and she drove me out of her house , and called me vile names . 
I was thinking of a plan , continued Mrs. Redburn , though I don't know as it would work well . 
Anything would work better than this being constantly cheated for it is really worse for the girls than it is for us . 
I have often felt that those who cheat us are the real sufferers . 
I would a good deal rather be cheated than cheat myself . 
You are right , Katy and that is a Christian view of the subject . 
I suppose we are in duty bound to keep these girls as honest as we can . 
What is your plan , mother ? asked Katy . 
We will sell them the candy , instead of employing them to sell it for us . 
But they won't pay us . 
Let them pay in advance . 
We will sell them the candy at eight cents a dozen . 
Any girl who wants two dozen sticks , must bring sixteen cents . 
I don't believe we can find any customers . 
For a time , probably , the sales will be less . 
Very well , mother , we will try it for I think it would be better to keep them honest , even if we don't sell more than half so much . 
Most of them were unable to comply with the terms , and begged hard to be trusted one day more . 
Katy was firm , for she saw that they would be more likely to be dishonest that day , to revenge themselves for the working of the new system . 
The girls were not all dishonest , or even a majority of them , but the plan must be applied to all . 
Most of them went home , therefore , and shortly returned with money enough to buy one or two dozen sticks . 
As Mrs. Redburn had predicted , the effect of the adoption of the new plan was unfavorable for a few days . 
The obstinate ones would not buy , hoping to make the wholesale dealer go back to the old plan . 
Thus the business went on very prosperously though Mrs. Redburn and Katy were obliged to work very hard so hard that the former began to experience a return of her old complaint . 
The affectionate daughter was frightened when she first mentioned the fact , and begged her not to work any more . 
What shall I do , Katy ? asked she , with a smile . 
Let me make the candy , replied Katy . 
No , Katy , you are not . 
I am afraid you are injuring yourself now . 
I am sure I am not . 
But I can't bear to think of your being sick again . 
We must look out for our health , Katy that ought to be the first of our earthly considerations . 
We ought , indeed , mother so , if you please , I shall not let you pull any more candy . 
Shall I save my own health at the expense of yours ? I shall get along very well . 
You are not very strong I have reproached myself a great many times for letting you do so much as you have . 
I have felt the pain for a fortnight , and though I greatly fear I shall have a return of my complaint , I cannot let you do all this work . 
We are neither of us fit to perform such hard labor and both of us must be relieved from it . 
I shall go out to morrow , and make a business of finding a person to do this work for us . 
Mrs. Redburn did try , but she tried in vain . 
It was odd , queer strange work , as the women called it , and they didn't want to do anything of the kind . 
It was in this manner that she had been taken at the commencement of her former long sickness , and to Katy the future looked dark and gloomy . 
But she did not give up . 
She applied herself , with all her energies , to the restoration of her mother and when she was partially conscious , she attempted to conduct her to the bed . 
The poor woman's strength was all gone , and Katy was obliged to call in Mrs. Howard to assist her . 
But the physician's art seemed powerless to soothe her . 
All night long the devoted daughter , like an angel of mercy , hovered around the bed , and did all he could in vain attempts to ease the sufferer's pain . 
Poor Katy ! The sun of prosperity had set , and the night of adversity was coming on . 
KATY STRUGGLES BRAVELY THROUGH A SERIES OF TRIALS . 
The morning sun rose clear and bright , casting a flood of light into the chamber of the sick mother , watched over by the beloved child . 
It was Christmas , and all over the Christian world arose paeans of praise for the birth of the Saviour . 
The sufferer was conscious of the fact , and a sweet smile played upon her lips , as she thought of Jesus that he had lived and died for her . 
Katy , said Mrs. Redburn , in a faint whisper . 
I am here , mother , replied she , bending over her and endeavoring to anticipate her unspoken desire . 
Is the hymn book on the table ? Here it is , mother . 
Won't you read me a hymn ? What shall I read ? asked Katy , who could with difficulty keep back the flood of tears that rose up from her heart . 
Come , said Jesus' sacred voice . 
Katy opened the book to the beautiful hymn commencing with this line , and in a voice broken by the emotion she could not wholly control , she read it through . 
The smile that played on her mother's face showed how deep and pure was the consolation she derived from the touching poetry . 
She could smile while racking pains tortured her frame , while her frail body seemed hardly to retain its hold upon mortality . 
How blessed the hope that pours its heavenly balm into the wounds of the sufferer ! Poor Katy was painfully impressed by the appearance and conduct of her mother . 
She had never before seen her so calm and resigned to those dreadful sufferings . 
She had heard her complain and murmur at her hard lot , and wonder why she should be thus sorely afflicted . 
She feared that some appalling event , which she dared not define and call by its name , was about to happen . 
She dared not think of the future , and she wondered that her mother could be so calm while she endured so much . 
Katy , said Mrs. Redburn , after the long silence that followed the reading of the hymn , I feel very weak and ill . 
You are burning up with fever ! exclaimed Katy , as she clasped the hand , and felt the burning , throbbing brow of her mother . 
I am but do not be alarmed , Katy . 
Can you be very calm ? I will try . 
For I feel very sick , but I am very happy . 
I can almost believe that the triumph of faith has already begun in my soul . 
The world looks very dim to me . 
Nay , mother , don't say so . 
I only mean that as heaven seems nearer , my hold upon earth is less strong . 
O mother ! sobbed Katy , unable any longer to restrain the expression of her emotion . 
Do not weep , my child I may be mistaken yet I feel as though God was about to end my sufferings on earth , and I am willing to go . 
O , no , mother ! It cannot be ! exclaimed Katy , gazing earnestly , through her tearful eyes , upon the pale but flushed cheek of the patient sufferer . 
I only wish to prepare you for the worst . 
I may get well and for your sake , I have prayed that I may . 
And , Katy , I have never before felt prepared to leave this world , full of trial and sorrow as it has been for me . 
Whatever of woe , and want , and disappointment it has been my lot to confront , has been a blessing in disguise . 
I feel like a new creature . 
I feel reconciled to live or die , as God ordains . 
Do not look on the dark side , mother , sobbed Katy . 
Nay , child , I am looking on the bright side , returned Mrs. Redburn , faintly Everything looks bright to me now . 
Life looks bright , and I feel that I could be happy for many years with you , for you have been a good daughter . 
Death looks bright , for it is the portal of the temple eternal in the heavens , where is joy unspeakable . 
I am too weak to talk more , Katy you may read me a chapter from the New Testament . 
The devoted daughter obeyed this request , and she had scarcely finished the chapter before the girls came for their candy . 
Katy , scarcely conscious what she was doing for her heart was with her mother , supplied each girl with her stock of candy , and received the money for it . 
You need not come to morrow , she said to them , as they were departing . 
Not come ! exclaimed several . 
What shall we do for candy ? We cannot make any now my mother is very sick . 
I get my living by selling candy , said one of them . 
I shan't have anything to pay my board if I can't sell candy . 
Poor Mary ! I am sorry for you . 
Katy knew her history , and felt very sad as she thought of her being deprived of the means of support . 
I don't know what I shall do , sighed Mary . 
I have to take care of my mother now , and shall not have time to make candy , said Katy . 
Do you mean to give up for good ? asked one of them . 
This question suggested some painful reflections to Katy . 
If they stopped making candy , she and her mother , as well as orphan Mary , would be deprived of the means of support . 
She trembled as she thought of the future , even when she looked forward only a few weeks . 
There was not more than ten dollars in the house , for they had but a short time before paid for their winter's coal , and at considerable expense largely replenished their wardrobes . 
The rent would be due in a week , and it would require more than half they had to pay it . 
Katy was appalled as she thought of the low state of their purse , and dreaded lest some fearful calamity might again overtake them . 
It was plain to her that she could not give up her business , even for a week , without the danger of being again reduced to actual want . 
She therefore reversed her decision , and told the girls they might come as usual the next day . 
Then she lamented that they had not dispensed with many articles of luxury while they had plenty of money , and saved more of it for such a sad time as the present . 
But it was of no use to repine she had only to make the best of her situation . 
Amid all these discouragements came a bright ray of sunshine the brightest that could possibly have shone on the pathway of the weeping daughter . 
Early in the forenoon came the physician who carefully examined his patient , speaking cheerfully and kindly to her all the while . 
The sufferer watched his expression very narrowly , as he bent over her and questioned her in regard to her pains . 
Presently she sent Katy to get her some drink , not because she wanted it , but to procure her absence for a short time . 
Do you think I shall get well ? asked Mrs. Redburn , as soon as the door closed behind Katy . 
A person who is very sick , is of course , always in danger , which may be more or less imminent , replied the doctor , with professional indirectness . 
I beg of you , doctor , do not conceal from me my true situation . 
I cannot foresee the result , my good woman . 
Do you think there is any hope for me ? Certainly there is . 
Tell me , I implore you , what you think of my case , pleaded the sufferer , in feeble tones . 
I felt this morning that my end was very near . 
O , no it is not so bad as that . 
I should say you had as many as five chances in ten to be on your feet in a fortnight . 
Do you think so ? I do not regard your case as a critical one . 
I wish you had told me so last night . 
It would have saved my poor child a very bitter pang . 
A physician does not hold the issues of life and death he can only assist nature , as the patient may by a cheerful view of his case . 
This is not your old complaint you have taken cold , and have considerable fever but I think it is a very hopeful case . 
The return of Katy interrupted the conversation but the doctor's opinion was immediately imparted to her , and it sent a thrill of joy to her heart . 
I was low spirited this morning , Katy , said Mrs. Redburn , when the physician had gone . 
I really felt as though my end was rapidly approaching . 
I am sorry I mentioned my thoughts to you . 
It was all for the best , I suppose , replied Katy . 
But Mrs. Redburn was very sick and even now the disease might have a fatal termination . 
The best of care would be required to restore her to health , and Katy was very anxious . 
Her mother was still suffering the most acute pain . 
The medicine , when obtained , to some extent relieved the sufferer's pain . 
As her presence was not required in the chamber , Katy went down stairs to what she called the candy room . 
She had an hour or two to spare , and she put on the kettle with the intention of making a part of the next day's candy . 
At noon she had made half the quantity required . 
Mrs. Howard was then obliged to go home , and attend to her own family , for she had two children besides Tommy , who had not yet returned from the East Indies . 
Mrs. Redburn was very restless during the afternoon , and could not be left alone for more than a short time at once . 
Mrs. Sneed , however , dropped in , and consented to remain for two hours , which enabled Katy to make the rest of the candy . 
By this time the poor girl was completely worn out . 
Her resolute will , even , could no longer impart its strength to the body . 
Her mother worried sadly about her , and finally induced her to lie down on the bed by her side , on condition that she should be awakened in an hour . 
In this manner she obtained a few hours' sleep during the night but these severe labors were a fearful task to be imposed upon a mere child . 
Mrs. Howard's son was still very sick , so that she was unable to render much assistance . 
The rest of the neighbors , though kindly disposed , had their own families to care for , and could do very little for others . 
With what slight aid her friends could afford , Katy struggled through a week , when Dr . 
Flynch appeared , and demanded the rent . 
There was but little more than money enough left to pay it , but Katy would not ask him for any indulgence , and paid him in full . 
In a few days more the purse was empty . 
Katy's most dreaded hour had come . 
She had no money , and almost every day some new thing was required for her mother . 
But this time she had friends , and she determined to use them , as all true friends wish to be used in the day of sorrow and trial . 
After considerable debate with herself , she decided to apply to Mrs. Gordon for a loan of twenty dollars . 
KATY RESORTS TO A LOAN . 
Katy was not at all pleased with the mission which her duty seemed to impose upon her . 
Again she felt the crushing weight of poverty , and pride rose up to throw obstacles in her path . 
She stood some time at Mrs. Gordon's door before she had the resolution to ring the bell . 
What right have I to be so proud ? said she , grasping the bell handle . 
I must get this money , or my mother may suffer . 
Good morning , to you , Katy . 
Are you nervous this morning ? said he . 
I am not very nervous . 
I thought you would pull down the bell , he added , good naturedly . 
I didn't mean to , Michael I hope you will excuse me if I did any harm . 
Not a bit of harm but you're looking as sober as a deacon . 
What ails you , Katy ? I feel very sad , Michael for my mother is very sick , and I don't know as she will ever get well . 
Indeed ? I'm sorry to hear that of her and Michael , whatever he felt , looked very much concerned about Mrs. Redburn's health . 
Is Mrs. Gordon at home ? She isn't . 
Is Miss Grace ? Neither of them they went to Baltimore ten days ago but I am expecting them back every day . 
You want to see her very much ? asked Michael . 
Can I be of any service to you ? No , Michael . 
Perhaps I can , Katy . 
No , I'm much obliged to you . 
If it's anything in the house you want , I can get it for you . 
No , I must see Mrs. Gordon . 
If it's any nice preserve or jelly you want just say the word , and I'll bring it to you at once . 
I do not want anything of that kind . 
Do you think Mrs. Gordon will return by to morrow ? I thought she would be here yesterday , and she may come to night . 
Very well I will , perhaps , call again to morrow , and she turned to leave . 
I'll tell Mrs. Gordon you came . 
Stop a minute , Katy . 
Won't you tell me what you want ? I would rather not , Michael but I will come again to morrow . 
See here , Katy maybe you're short of money . 
If you are , I have a matter of three hundred dollars in the Savings Bank and you may be sure you shall have every cent of it if you want it . 
I thank you , Michael you are very kind , but I think I would rather see Mrs. Gordon . 
I have a matter of five or six dollars in my pocket now and it that'll be of any service to you , take it and welcome . 
A few dollars would be all that she needed before the return of Mrs. Gordon and yet she did not feel like accepting it . 
Michael , you are so good , that I will tell you my story , said she , conquering her repugnance . 
In a few words she explained to him her situation , though her rebellious pride caused her to paint the picture in somewhat brighter colors than the truth would justify . 
She stated her intention to borrow twenty dollars of Mrs. Gordon , and offer her the watch as security , at the same time exhibiting the cherished treasure . 
Indeed I will , Katy ! exclaimed he , promptly pulling out his wallet . 
And if you will come at this time to morrow , you shall have the whole twenty dollars . 
There's six dollars take it , Katy , and my blessing with it . 
Only three dollars , Michael , replied Katy , firmly . 
Michael insisted , but all his persuasion would not induce her to accept more than the sum she had mentioned , and he was reluctantly compelled to yield the point . 
Here is the watch , Michael you shall keep that till I pay you . 
Is it me ! exclaimed he , springing to his feet , with an expression very like indignation on his countenance . 
Sure , you don't think I'd take the watch . 
Why not you as well as Mrs. Gordon ? asked Katy . 
She didn't take it , replied Michael triumphantly . 
You couldn't make her take it , if you try a month . 
Don't I know Mrs. Gordon ? But please to take it I should feel much better if you would . 
Bad luck to me if I do ! I wouldn't take it to save my neck from the gallows . 
Where's my Irish heart ? Did I leave it at home , or did I bring it with me to America ? If you will not take it , Michael I won't . 
If you won't , I will say no more about it , replied Katy , as she returned the watch to her pocket . 
You have got a very kind heart , and I shall never forget you as long as I live . 
Katy , after glancing at the portrait of the roguish lady that hung in the room , took leave of Michael , and hastened home . 
On her way , she could not banish the generous servant from her mind . 
Where have you been , Katy ? asked Mrs. Redburn , as she entered the sick chamber , and Mrs. Sneed hastened home . 
I have been to Mrs. Gordon . 
What for ? Katy did not like to tell . 
She knew it would make her mother feel very unhappy to know that she had borrowed money of Mrs. Gordon's servant . 
Oh , I went up to see her , replied Katy . 
No matter , if you don't like to tell me , faintly replied Mrs. Redburn . 
I will tell you , mother , answered Katy , stung by the gentle rebuke contained in her mother's words . 
I suppose our money is all gone , sighed the sick woman . 
No , mother see here ! I have three dollars , and Katy pulled out her porte monnaie , anxious to save her even a moment of uneasiness . 
But in taking out the money she exhibited the watch also , which at once excited Mrs. Redburn's curiosity . 
What have you been doing with that , Katy ? she asked . 
Ah , I fear I was right . 
And she refused ? No she was not at home . 
But your money is not all gone ? Katy wanted to say it was not , but her conscience would not let her practise deception . 
She had the three dollars which she had just borrowed of Michael , and that was not all gone . 
Perhaps it was for her mother's good to deceive her but she had been taught to feel that she had no right to do evil that good might follow . 
It was all gone , but I borrowed three dollars , she replied , after a little hesitation . 
Of whom ? Of Michael . 
Who's he ? Mrs. Gordon's man . 
O Katy ! How could you do so ? sighed Mrs. Redburn . 
I couldn't help it , mother . 
He would make me take it and she gave all the particulars of her interview with Michael and reviewed the considerations which had induced her to accept the loan . 
Perhaps you are right , Katy . 
My pride would not have let me borrow of a servant but it is wicked for me to cherish such a pride . 
I try very hard to banish it . 
Don't talk any more now , mother . 
We are too poor to be too proud to accept a favor of one who is in a humble station . 
I don't know what will become of us , said Mrs. Redburn , as she turned her head away to hide the tears that flooded her eyes . 
Katy took up the Bible that lay by the bedside , and turning to the twenty third psalm , she read , The Lord is my Shepherd I shall not want . 
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures he leadeth me beside the still waters . 
Go on , Katy those words are real comfort , said Mrs. Redburn , drying her tears . 
I know it is wicked for me to repine . 
The sufferer rested much better than usual that night , and Katy was permitted to sleep the greater part of the time a boon which her exhausted frame very much needed . 
Katy could not leave then , for she had no one to stay with her mother but Mrs. Sneed could come in an hour . 
Michael hastened home with the intelligence that Mrs. Redburn was better , and Katy soon followed him . 
GORDON FEELS FAINT , AND KATY ENTERS A NEW SPHERE . 
On her arrival at Temple Street , Katy was promptly admitted by Michael , and shown in the sitting room , where Mrs. Gordon and Grace were waiting for her . 
You are very kind , ma'am . 
Flynch call upon you at the first of the month ? Yes , ma'am and we paid the rent as usual , replied Katy . 
I am sorry you did so , Katy you should have told him you were not in a condition to pay the rent . 
I couldn't tell him so , he is so cold and cruel . 
I think you misjudge him , for he has a really kind heart , and would not have distressed you for all the world . 
Besides , I told him he need not collect your rent any time when you did not feel ready to pay it . 
I hope you will excuse me , ma'am , but I haven't liked him since the trouble we had a year ago , when he accused my dear mother of telling a lie . 
I forgive him , ma'am but I can't help thinking he is a very wicked man , answered Katy , with considerable emphasis . 
I hope not so bad as that for I am sure , if you had told him it was not convenient for you to pay the rent , he would not have insisted . 
But you want some assistance Katy ? Yes , ma'am that is , I want to borrow some money , replied Katy , blushing deeply . 
That's just like you , interposed Grace , laughing . 
I suppose you will want to give your note this time . 
I don't care about giving a note , but I mean to pay the money back again , every cent of it . 
And the interest too , I suppose ? Yes , said Katy , though she had not a very clear idea of the value of money , as an article of merchandise . 
Don't distress her , Grace you forget that her mother is very sick , and she cannot feel like listening to your pleasantries , said Mrs. Gordon . 
Forgive me , Katy , replied Grace , tenderly . 
Katy burst into tears , though she could not exactly tell why . 
She was overcome with emotion as the beautiful young lady took her hand , and looked so sorrowfully in her face . 
Don t cry , Katy I am sorry I said a word , pleaded Grace . 
I would not have hurt your feelings for all the world . 
You did not hurt my feelings you are so kind to me that I could not help crying . 
I suppose I am very silly . 
No , you are not , Katy now dry up your tears , and tell us all about it , added Mrs. Gordon , in soothing tones . 
How long has your mother been sick ? Almost two weeks . 
What ails her ? She has got a fever but she is much better to day . 
The doctor says she hasn't got it very bad but she has been very sick , I think . 
Who takes care of her ? I do , ma'am . 
You ! She must need a great deal of attention . 
But who takes care of her at night ? I do , ma'am . 
I have been up a great deal every night . 
Poor child ! It is enough to wear you out . 
I wouldn't mind it at all , if I had nothing else to trouble me . 
What other troubles have you ? I can't make any candy now , and haven't made any for nearly a fortnight so that we have no money coming in . 
We spent nearly all we had in buying our winter clothing and fuel . 
It worries me very much , for we had plenty of money before mother was taken sick . 
I hope you haven't wanted for anything . 
No , ma'am for when my purse was empty , I came up here , only yesterday , to borrow some of you , if you would please to lend it me . 
Certainly , I will , my child . 
I am very glad you came . 
Michael would make me tell what I wanted , and then he let me have three dollars , and offered to let me have as much as I wanted . 
I didn't know as you would like it if I borrowed money of your servant . 
You did just right and I am glad that Michael has a kind heart . 
Now , Katy , that is too bad ! exclaimed Grace , catching her by the hand , while a tear started from her eye . 
You know I didn't mean that . 
I know you didn't but I don't know much about such things , and thought likely it was right for us to pay interest , if we borrowed money . 
We will say no more about that , interrupted Mrs. Gordon . 
I will let you have the money with the greatest pleasure , for I know you will make good use of it . 
And you must promise me that you will not distress yourself to pay it again , continued the kind lady , as she took out her purse . 
I will not distress myself , but I will pay it as soon as I can . 
You must not be too proud . 
No , ma'am but just proud enough . 
Yes , that's it , replied Mrs. Gordon , smiling . 
Pride is a very good thing in its place . 
It keeps people from being mean and wicked sometimes . 
That's true pride , added Katy . 
Yes for there is a false pride , which makes people very silly and vain which keeps them from doing their duty very often . 
You have none of this kind of pride . 
Your friend Simon Sneed , whom the mayor spoke to me about , affords us a very good example of the folly of cherishing false pride . 
Where is Simon now ? He keeps a store in Washington Street . 
He is a salesman now , and I don't think he is so foolish as he was . 
Perhaps the lesson he learned did him good . 
But I am keeping you away from your mother , Katy . 
Who stays with her while you are away ? Mrs. Sneed Simon's mother . 
Then she is a good woman . 
And Simon is very kind he has done a great many things for me , and I hope I shall be able to do something for him one of these days . 
Think well of your friends , though others speak ill of them , said Grace . 
Ah , there comes the carriage . 
I am going home with you , Katy , to see your mother . 
You are very kind , Miss Grace . 
Here is the money , added Mrs. Gordon , handing her a little roll of bills . 
Thank you , ma'am , replied Katy , as she placed the money in her porte monnaie . 
But Here she came to a full stop , and her face was as crimson as a blush rose , but she took out the silver watch , and approached Mrs. Gordon . 
What were you going to say , Katy ? I brought this watch up , stammered she . 
If you want anything else , Katy , don't hesitate to mention it for I will not do anything to mortify your pride , even if it is unreasonable , said Mrs. Gordon . 
I understand you perfectly the twenty dollars is not a gift , but a loan . 
Yes , ma'am but if we should never be able to pay it , then it would be a gift . 
My dear child , I do not want any security . 
Your word is just as good as your bond . 
But I would rather you would take it . 
My mother is prouder than I am , for she wasn't always as poor as she is now . 
Katy suddenly clapped her hand over her mouth , when she recollected that this was a forbidden topic . 
Some time you may tell me all about your mother and I will call and see her to morrow , and help you take care of her . 
Please to take the watch . 
If you very much desire it , I shall do so , though I cannot take it as security . 
Is this the watch you carried to the pawnbroker ? said Mrs. Gordon as she took the treasure . 
It belonged to my father . 
Mercy , what's this ! exclaimed she , starting back , and staggering towards her chair . 
What is the matter , mother ? cried Grace , running to her side . 
Are you ill ? No , Grace that inscription ! replied Mrs. Gordon , faintly , for she seemed very deeply moved , and on the point of swooning . 
Bring me a glass of water . 
There was no water in the room , but Michael was in the entry , and was dispatched to procure it . 
What does , it mean , mother ? I do not see anything very strange about that . 
I have seen this watch before , she replied , stopping to think . 
Where did your mother get this watch , Katy ? she asked , as it occurred to her that she might be arriving at a conclusion too suddenly . 
Mercy ! gasped Mrs. Gordon , almost overcome by her emotions . 
What is the matter , mother ? What has all this to do with you ? asked Grace , anxiously . 
Come here , Katy , my child , continued Mrs. Gordon , as she drew the little candy merchant to her side , and warmly embraced her . 
Your mother , Katy , is my sister , I have scarcely a doubt . 
Why , mother ! Is it possible ? exclaimed Grace . 
Mrs. Redburn , whose name we have often heard mentioned without thinking it might be the wife of John Redburn , my father's clerk , is my sister . 
I had given her up , and have regarded her as dead for more than ten years . 
But , Grace , get my things , and I will go to her at once . 
Is that your portrait , ma'am ? asked Katy , pointing to the picture of the mischievous lady . 
No , child that is your mother's portrait . 
It was taken when she was only sixteen years old . 
She was a gay , wild girl then . 
I suppose she is sadly changed now . 
The thought completely overcame Mrs. Gordon , and throwing herself upon a sofa , she wept like a child . 
She thought of her sister suffering from poverty and want , while she had been rolling in opulence and plenty . 
Grace tried to comfort her , but it was some time before she was in a condition to enter the carriage which was waiting at the door . 
What an adventure , mother ! exclaimed Grace , as she seated herself by the side of Katy and it was evident she had a vein of the romantic in her composition . 
Do not talk to me , Grace . 
My heart is too full for words . 
But I may talk to Katy may I not ? Yes . 
Well , cousin Katy , laughed Grace I shall call you cousin , though you are not really my cousin . 
Not your cousin ? said Katy , a shade of disappointment crossing her animated features . 
No for Mrs. Gordon is not really my mother only my stepmother but she is just as good as a real mother , for I never knew any other . 
Dear me ! how strange all this is ! And you will go up and live with us in Temple Street , and I can't leave my mother , interrupted Katy . 
You mother shall go , too . 
She is too sick now . 
Grace continued to talk as fast as she could , laying out ever so many plans for the future , till the carriage reached Colvin Court . 
There , in the midst of her sister's poverty , she did a sister's offices . 
Mr. Guthrie , the father of both , died two years after the flight of Margaret Mrs. Redburn when of course there was a large property to be divided . 
Diligent search was made for Margaret in America but her husband had declared to some person in Liverpool that he had an engagement in Montreal . 
This place was thoroughly canvassed , but without success . 
No trace of the runaways could be discovered . 
Agents were sent to various parts of America , and no tidings of Margaret had ever reached them . 
About two year after her father's death , Jane Mrs. Gordon had married a very wealthy gentleman from Baltimore . 
He was then a widower with one child Grace Gordon . 
She had come to America with him , and resided in Baltimore till his death , a period of only two years . 
Then , having never liked to live in that city , she had removed to Boston , where she had a few friends . 
She had invested her money and resided there , very happily situated , and with no desire to return to her native land . 
Mrs. Gordon used to declare it was strange she had never thought that Mrs. Redburn might be her sister but it was declared that stranger things than that had happened . 
Katy continued to go to school with great regularity , and became an excellent scholar . 
Mrs. Redburn was soon completely restored to health . 
She had a fortune to manage now , and when Dr . 
Flynch proposed to collect her rents and take charge of her affairs , she respectfully declined the offer . 
KATY GOES TO CHURCH , AND HAS A BIRTHDAY PARTY . 
Ten years is a long time long enough to change the child into a woman , the little candy merchant into a fine lady . 
I suppose , therefore , that my young friends will need to be introduced to Miss Redburn . 
But Katy is irresistible if she is not pretty . 
She still looks as pleasant as a morning in June , and smiles sweetly when any one speaks to her and when she speaks to any one . 
She is a little older than when we saw her last , but she is the same Grace . 
She enters the room , kisses Katy with as much zeal as though she had not seen her for months , though they had met the day before . 
She had scarcely saluted her cousin before a little fat man of six came tumbling into the room , for he had not been able to keep up with his mother . 
Not now , Tommy would you believe it , reader ? that little boy's name is Thomas Howard Parker not now , Tommy . 
I came to tell you , Katy , that the King of the Billows has been telegraphed . 
Has she ? exclaimed Katy , a deep blush suffusing her cheek . 
Yes and you must go right down to the wharf , or we shall not be in season to see Captain Howard , who is coming up in a pilot boat . 
Miss Redburn hastened to put on her things , and she and Mrs. Parker seated themselves in the carriage that waited them . 
He is frequently quoted as an example of what patient perseverance will accomplish for , with very little aid from friends , he has worked his way from the forecastle into the cabin . 
He is a self educated man , and has the reputation of being a thorough sailor and a perfect gentleman . 
There are a great many persons in the Gordon mansion , as many as two hundred , I should think . 
Of course , I cannot stop to introduce all of them , but there are a few who deserve this favor . 
Mr. Sneed , I am delighted to see you , said Mrs. Howard , as a very tall and very slim gentleman , elegantly dressed , approached . 
You do me honor , madam . 
It is the superlative felicity of my sublunary existence to congratulate you on this auspicious occasion , replied Mr. Sneed , as he gently pressed the gloved hand of the lady . 
That sounds just like Master Simon Sneed , only very much intensified . 
Simon's father and mother say a pleasant word to the bride , and pass on . 
And here comes a great fat woman , whose tongue flies like the shuttle in a loom . 
Well , it is the captain's mother . 
Since her son has been prosperous , she has had an easy time of it , and has grown very corpulent . 
Who do you think has come , Katy ? puffed Mrs. Howard . 
Who ? Mrs. Colvin , that was ! Mrs. McCarty , that is . 
Mrs. Howard , I congratulate you , said a fat man , who was puffing and blowing at the heat of the room . 
It was an ex mayor and after he had said a few pleasant words , he passed on to make room for a hundred more who were waiting to speak to the bride . 
That was a very pleasant party but as we are opposed to crowded rooms and late hours , we may as well retire . 
And now my young friend , adieu . 
