MEMOIRS OF EXTRAORDINARY POPULAR DELUSIONS BY CHARLES MACKAY AUTHOR OF THE THAMES AND ITS TRIBUTARIES , THE HOPE OF THE WORLD , ETC . 
Il est bon de connaitre les delires de l'esprit humain . 
Chaque people a ses folies plus ou moins grossieres . 
MILLOT VOL I. LONDON RICHARD BENTLEY , NEW BURLINGTON STREET . 
PUBLISHER IN ORDINARY TO HER MAJESTY . 
At another time , the many became crazed on the subject of the Philosopher's Stone , and committed follies till then unheard of in the pursuit . 
It was once thought a venial offence in very many countries of Europe to destroy an enemy by slow poison . 
Persons who would have revolted at the idea of stabbing a man to the heart , drugged his pottage without scruple . 
Ladies of gentle birth and manners caught the contagion of murder , until poisoning , under their auspices , became quite fashionable . 
Money , again , has often been a cause of the delusion of multitudes . 
Sober nations have all at once become desperate gamblers , and risked almost their existence upon the turn of a piece of paper . 
To trace the history of the most prominent of these delusions is the object of the present pages . 
In the present state of civilization , society has often shown itself very prone to run a career of folly from the last mentioned cases . 
This infatuation has seized upon whole nations in a most extraordinary manner . 
France , with her Mississippi madness , set the first great example , and was very soon imitated by England with her South Sea Bubble . 
At an earlier period , Holland made herself still more ridiculous in the eyes of the world , by the frenzy which came over her people for the love of Tulips . 
Melancholy as all these delusions were in their ultimate results , their history is most amusing . 
A more ludicrous and yet painful spectacle , than that which Holland presented in the years and , or France in and , can hardly be imagined . 
Taking them in the order of their importance , we shall commence our history with John Law and the famous Mississippi scheme of the years above mentioned . 
Historians are divided in opinion as to whether they should designate him a knave or a madman . 
Both epithets were unsparingly applied to him in his lifetime , and while the unhappy consequences of his projects were still deeply felt . 
He was thoroughly acquainted with the philosophy and true principles of credit . 
Down he went over the sharp rocks , and the waters with him . 
Just so it was with Law and the French people . 
He was the boatman and they were the waters . 
John Law was born at Edinburgh in the year . 
His father was the younger son of an ancient family in Fife , and carried on the business of a goldsmith and banker . 
He amassed considerable wealth in his trade , sufficient to enable him to gratify the wish , so common among his countrymen , of adding a territorial designation to his name . 
He had always manifested great love for the study of numbers , and his proficiency in the mathematics was considered extraordinary in one of his tender years . 
At this time he began to neglect his business , and becoming vain of his person , indulged in considerable extravagance of attire . 
He was a great favourite with the ladies , by whom he was called Beau Law , while the other sex , despising his foppery , nicknamed him Jessamy John . 
He was now very young , very vain , good looking , tolerably rich , and quite uncontrolled . 
It is no wonder that , on his arrival in the capital , he should launch out into extravagance . 
He soon became a regular frequenter of the gaming houses , and by pursuing a certain plan , based upon some abstruse calculation of chances , he contrived to gain considerable sums . 
All the gamblers envied him his luck , and many made it a point to watch his play , and stake their money on the same chances . 
In affairs of gallantry he was equally fortunate ladies of the first rank smiled graciously upon the handsome Scotchman the young , the rich , the witty , and the obliging . 
But all these successes only paved the way for reverses . 
After he had been for nine years exposed to the dangerous attractions of the gay life he was leading , he became an irrecoverable gambler . 
As his love of play increased in violence , it diminished in prudence . 
Great losses were only to be repaired by still greater ventures , and one unhappy day he lost more than he could repay without mortgaging his family estate . 
To that step he was driven at last . 
At the same time his gallantry brought him into trouble . 
Law accepted , and had the ill fortune to shoot his antagonist dead upon the spot . 
He was arrested the same day , and brought to trial for murder by the relatives of Mr. Wilson . 
He was afterwards found guilty , and sentenced to death . 
The sentence was commuted to a fine , upon the ground that the offence only amounted to manslaughter . 
As this was rather a caricature than a description of him , it has been supposed that it was drawn up with a view to favour his escape . 
He succeeded in reaching the Continent , where he travelled for three years , and devoted much of his attention to the monetary and banking affairs of the countries through which he passed . 
He stayed a few months in Amsterdam , and speculated to some extent in the funds . 
His mornings were devoted to the study of finance and the principles of trade , and his evenings to the gaming house . 
It is generally believed that he returned to Edinburgh in the year . 
It is certain that he published in that city his Proposals and Reasons for constituting a Council of Trade . 
This pamphlet did not excite much attention . 
For fourteen years he continued to roam about , in Flanders , Holland , Germany , Hungary , Italy , and France . 
He soon became intimately acquainted with the extent of the trade and resources of each , and daily more confirmed in his opinion that no country could prosper without a paper currency . 
During the whole of this time he appears to have chiefly supported himself by successful play . 
At every gambling house of note in the capitals of Europe , he was known and appreciated as one better skilled in the intricacies of chance than any other man of the day . 
During his residence in Paris he rendered himself obnoxious to D'Argenson , the lieutenant general of the police , by whom he was ordered to quit the capital . 
Shortly before the death of Louis XIV , or , as some say , in , Law proposed a scheme of finance to Desmarets , the Comptroller . 
Louis is reported to have inquired whether the projector were a Catholic , and , on being answered in the negative , to have declined having anything to do with him . 
There is no doubt that Law proposed his scheme to Desmarets , and that Louis refused to hear of it . 
The reason given for the refusal is quite consistent with the character of that bigoted and tyrannical monarch . 
It was after this repulse that he visited Italy . 
His mind being still occupied with schemes of finance , he proposed to Victor Amadeus , Duke of Savoy , to establish his land bank in that country . 
The Duke replied that his dominions were too circumscribed for the execution of so great a project , and that he was by far too poor a potentate to be ruined . 
Law now found himself in a more favourable position . 
The tide in his affairs had come , which , taken at the flood , was to waft him on to fortune . 
Hardly was that monarch laid in his grave ere the popular hatred , suppressed so long , burst forth against his memory . 
His statues were pelted and disfigured his effigies torn down , amid the execrations of the populace , and his name rendered synonymous with selfishness and oppression . 
The glory of his arms was forgotten , and nothing was remembered but his reverses , his extravagance , and his cruelty . 
The finances of the country were in a state of the utmost disorder . 
A profuse and corrupt monarch , whose profuseness and corruption were imitated by almost every functionary , from the highest to the lowest grade , had brought France to the verge of ruin . 
The national debt amounted to millions of livres , the revenue to millions , and the expenditure to millions per annum leaving only three millions to pay the interest upon millions . 
The first care of the Regent was to discover a remedy for an evil of such magnitude , and a council was early summoned to take the matter into consideration . 
Simon was of opinion that nothing could save the country from revolution but a remedy at once bold and dangerous . 
He advised the Regent to convoke the States General , and declare a national bankruptcy . 
Simon with all his influence . 
He represented the expedient as alike dishonest and ruinous . 
The Regent was of the same opinion , and this desperate remedy fell to the ground . 
The measures ultimately adopted , though they promised fair , only aggravated the evil . 
The first , and most dishonest measure , was of no advantage to the state . 
By this contrivance the treasury gained seventy two millions of livres , and all the commercial operations of the country were disordered . 
A trifling diminution of the taxes silenced the clamours of the people , and for the slight present advantage the great prospective evil was forgotten . 
A chamber of justice was next instituted , to inquire into the malversations of the loan contractors and the farmers of the revenues . 
Tax collectors are never very popular in any country , but those of France at this period deserved all the odium with which they were loaded . 
As soon as these farmers general , with all their hosts of subordinate agents , called maltotiers From maltote , an oppressive tax . 
, were called to account for their misdeeds , the most extravagant joy took possession of the nation . 
The Chamber of Justice , instituted chiefly for this purpose , was endowed with very extensive powers . 
Informers were encouraged to give evidence against the offenders by the promise of one fifth part of the fines and confiscations . 
A tenth of all concealed effects belonging to the guilty was promised to such as should furnish the means of discovering them . 
The promulgation of the edict constituting this court caused a degree of consternation among those principally concerned which can only be accounted for on the supposition that their peculation had been enormous . 
But they met with no sympathy . 
The proceedings against them justified their terror . 
The Bastile was soon unable to contain the prisoners that were sent to it , and the gaols all over the country teemed with guilty or suspected persons . 
Some were condemned to the pillory , others to the gallies , and the least guilty to fine and imprisonment . 
One only , Samuel Bernard , a rich banker , and farmer general of a province remote from the capital , was sentenced to death . 
His bribe was refused , and he suffered the penalty of death . 
Others , perhaps more guilty , were more fortunate . 
Confiscation , owing to the concealment of their treasures by the delinquents , often produced less money than a fine . 
The severity of the government relaxed , and fines , under the denomination of taxes , were indiscriminately levied upon all offenders . 
But so corrupt was every department of the administration , that the country benefited but little by the sums which thus flowed into the treasury . 
Courtiers , and courtiers' wives and mistresses , came in for the chief share of the spoils . 
One contractor had been taxed in proportion to his wealth and guilt , at the sum of twelve millions of livres . 
Vous etes trop tard , mon ami , replied the financier I have already made a bargain with your wife for fifty thousand . 
This anecdote is related by M. de la Hode , in his Life of Philippe of Orleans . 
It would have looked more authentic if he had given the names of the dishonest contractor and the still more dishonest minister . 
But M. de la Hode's book is liable to the same objection as most of the French memoirs of that and of subsequent periods . 
It is sufficient with most of them that an anecdote be ben trovato the veto is but matter of secondary consideration . 
About a hundred and eighty millions of livres were levied in this manner , of which eighty were applied in payment of the debts contracted by the government . 
The remainder found its way into the pockets of the courtiers . 
They did not see the justice of robbing one set of rogues to fatten another . 
In a few months all the more guilty had been brought to punishment , and the chamber of justice looked for victims in humbler walks of life . 
Charges of fraud and extortion were brought against tradesmen of good character , in consequence of the great inducements held out to common informers . 
They were compelled to lay open their affairs before this tribunal in order to establish their innocence . 
The voice of complaint resounded from every side , and at the expiration of a year the government found it advisable to discontinue further proceedings . 
The chamber of justice was suppressed , and a general amnesty granted to all against whom no charges had yet been preferred . 
In the midst of this financial confusion Law appeared upon the scene . 
No man felt more deeply than the Regent the deplorable state of the country , but no man could be more averse from putting his shoulders manfully to the wheel . 
He disliked business he signed official documents without proper examination , and trusted to others what he should have undertaken himself . 
When Law presented himself at court , he was most cordially received . 
He offered two memorials to the Regent , in which he set forth the evils that had befallen France , owing to an insufficient currency , at different times depreciated . 
He further proposed that this bank should be administered in the King's name , but subject to the control of commissioners , to be named by the States General . 
While these memorials were under consideration , Law translated into French his essay on money and trade , and used every means to extend through the nation his renown as a financier . 
He soon became talked of . 
The confidants of the Regent spread abroad his praise , and every one expected great things of Monsieur Lass . 
The French pronounced his name in this manner to avoid the ungallic sound , aw . 
The capital was fixed at six millions of livres , in twelve thousand shares of five hundred livres each , purchasable one fourth in specie and the remainder in billets d'etat . 
It was not thought expedient to grant him the whole of the privileges prayed for in his memorials until experience should have shown their safety and advantage . 
Law was now on the high road to fortune . 
The study of thirty years was brought to guide him in the management of his bank . 
He made all his notes payable at sight , and in the coin current at the time they were issued . 
This last was a master stroke of policy , and immediately rendered his notes more valuable than the precious metals . 
The latter were constantly liable to depreciation by the unwise tampering of the government . 
A thousand livres of silver might be worth their nominal value one day and be reduced one sixth the next , but a note of Law's bank retained its original value . 
He publicly declared at the same time that a banker deserved death if he made issues without having sufficient security to answer all demands . 
The consequence was , that his notes advanced rapidly in public estimation , and were received at one per cent . 
It was not long before the trade of the country felt the benefit . 
In the course of a year Law's notes rose to fifteen per cent . 
The comparison was too great in favour of Law not to attract the attention of the whole kingdom , and his credit extended itself day by day . 
Branches of his bank were almost simultaneously established at Lyons , Rochelle , Tours , Amiens , and Orleans . 
Upon this fundamental error he afterwards acted . 
In the mean time , Law commenced the famous project which has handed his name down to posterity . 
Letters patent were issued , incorporating the company , in August . 
It was now that the frenzy of speculating began to seize upon the nation . 
Law's bank had effected so much good , that any promises for the future which he thought proper to make were readily believed . 
The Regent every day conferred new privileges upon the fortunate projector . 
The bank obtained the monopoly of the sale of tobacco the sole right of refinage of gold and silver , and was finally erected into the Royal Bank of France . 
As soon as the bank , from a private , became a public institution , the Regent caused a fabrication of notes to the amount of one thousand millions of livres . 
This was the first departure from sound principles , and one for which Law is not justly blameable . 
While the affairs of the bank were under his control , the issues had never exceeded sixty millions . 
He discovered it afterwards to his cost , but in the mean time suffered himself to be impelled by the Regent into courses which his own reason must have disapproved . 
The Parliament were from the first jealous of his influence as a foreigner , and had , besides , their misgivings as to the safety of his projects . 
As his influence extended , their animosity increased . 
The first measure of the new minister caused a further depreciation of the coin . 
The Parliament saw at once the impolicy and danger of such a system , and made repeated remonstrances to the Regent . 
The Regent summoned a lit de justice , and annulled the decree . 
The Parliament resisted , and issued another . 
The Parliament was ultimately overawed by the arrest of their president and two of the counsellors , who were sent to distant prisons . 
The Company , in consequence of this great increase of their business , assumed , as more appropriate , the title of Company of the Indies , and created fifty thousand new shares . 
The prospects now held out by Law were most magnificent . 
The public enthusiasm , which had been so long rising , could not resist a vision so splendid . 
At least three hundred thousand applications were made for the fifty thousand new shares , and Law's house in the Rue de Quincampoix was beset from morning to night by the eager applicants . 
Dukes , marquises , counts , with their duchesses , marchionesses , and countesses , waited in the streets for hours every day before Mr. Law's door to know the result . 
For this purpose , the sum of fifteen hundred millions of livres was necessary . 
Such was the eagerness of the nation , that thrice the sum would have been subscribed if the government had authorised it . 
Law was now at the zenith of his prosperity , and the people were rapidly approaching the zenith of their infatuation . 
The highest and the lowest classes were alike filled with a vision of boundless wealth . 
There was not a person of note among the aristocracy , with the exception of the Duke of St . 
Simon and Marshal Villars , who was not engaged in buying or selling stock . 
People of every age and sex , and condition in life , speculated in the rise and fall of the Mississippi bonds . 
Houses in it , worth , in ordinary times , a thousand livres of yearly rent , yielded as much as twelve or sixteen thousand . 
A cobbler , who had a stall in it , gained about two hundred livres a day by letting it out , and furnishing writing materials to brokers and their clients . 
These again drew all the thieves and immoral characters of Paris to the spot , and constant riots and disturbances took place . 
At nightfall , it was often found necessary to send a troop of soldiers to clear the street . 
Law , finding the inconvenience of his residence , removed to the Place Vendome , whither the crowd of agioteurs followed him . 
That spacious square soon became as thronged as the Rue de Quincampoix from morning to night it presented the appearance of a fair . 
They contained some fine statues and several fountains , and were altogether laid out with much taste . 
In the midst among the trees , about five hundred small tents and pavilions were erected , for the convenience of the stock jobbers . 
The Prince de Carignan made enormous profits while the delusion lasted . 
The honest old soldier , Marshal Villars , was so vexed to see the folly which had smitten his countrymen , that he never could speak with temper on the subject . 
This was not a very wise proceeding on his part . 
Hisses and shouts of laughter resounded from every side , and jokes without number were aimed at him . 
There being at last strong symptoms that something more tangible was flying through the air in the direction of his head , Marshal was glad to drive on . 
He never again repeated the experiment . 
During this time , Law , the new Plutus , had become all at once the most important personage of the state . 
The ante chambers of the Regent were forsaken by the courtiers . 
Law was so pestered that he was unable to see one tenth part of the applicants , and every manoeuvre that ingenuity could suggest was employed to gain access to him . 
Enormous fees were paid to his servants , if they would merely announce their names . 
Ladies of rank employed the blandishments of their smiles for the same object but many of them came day after day for a fortnight before they could obtain an audience . 
The most ludicrous stratagems were employed to have an opportunity of speaking to him . 
The coachman promised obedience , and for three days the lady was driven incessantly through the town , praying inwardly for the opportunity to be overturned . 
Law smiled , and entered the lady in his books as the purchaser of a quantity of India stock . 
Many other anecdotes are related , which even , though they may be a little exaggerated , are nevertheless worth preserving , as showing the spirit of that singular period . 
It is related in the Letters of Madame Charlotte Elizabeth de Baviere , Duchess of Orleans , vol . 
M. de Chirac , a celebrated physician , had bought stock at an unlucky period , and was very anxious to sell out . 
Stock , however continued to fall for two or three days , much to his alarm . 
His mind was filled with the subject , when he was suddenly called upon to attend a lady , who imagined herself unwell . 
He arrived , was shown up stairs , and felt the lady's pulse . 
It falls ! it falls ! good God ! it falls continually ! said he , musingly , while the lady looked up in his face , all anxiety for his opinion . 
My pulse ! my pulse ! said the lady I must be dying . 
Calm your apprehensions , my dear Madam , said M. de Chirac I was speaking of the stocks . 
The truth is , I have been a great loser , and my mind is so disturbed , I hardly know what I have been saying . 
The price of shares sometimes rose ten or twenty per cent . 
in the course of a few hours , and many persons in the humbler walks of life , who had risen poor in the morning , went to bed in affluence . 
The servant went , and , on his arrival in the Jardin de Soissons , found that in the interval the price had risen to ten thousand livres . 
Law's coachman in a very short time made money enough to set up a carriage of his own , and requested permission to leave his service . 
Law , who esteemed the man , begged of him as a favour , that he would endeavour , before he went , to find a substitute as good as himself . 
The coachman consented , and in the evening brought two of his former comrades , telling Mr. Law to choose between them , and he would take the other . 
Cookmaids and footmen were now and then as lucky , and , in the full blown pride of their easily acquired wealth , made the most ridiculous mistakes . 
But the folly and meanness of the higher ranks of society were still more disgusting . 
One instance alone , related by the Duke de St . 
Simon , will show the unworthy avarice which infected the whole of society . 
Simon expresses it , he had amassed mountains of gold . 
As he became rich , he grew ashamed of the lowness of his birth , and anxious above all things to be allied to nobility . 
The Marquis was himself in his thirty third year . 
This scandalous bargain was duly signed and sealed , the stockjobber furthermore agreeing to settle upon his daughter , on the marriage day , a fortune of several millions . 
The Duke of Brancas , the head of the family , was present throughout the negotiation , and shared in all the profits . 
It would appear , however , that the noble family never had the honesty to return the hundred thousand crowns . 
Amid events like these , which , humiliating though they be , partake largely of the ludicrous , others occurred of a more serious nature . 
Robberies in the streets were of daily occurrence , in consequence of the immense sums , in paper , which people carried about with them . 
The unsuspecting broker was punctual to his appointment so were the Count d'Horn and his two associates , whom he introduced as his particular friends . 
After a few moments' conversation , the Count d'Horn suddenly sprang upon his victim , and stabbed him three times in the breast with a poniard . 
But the broker did not fall without a struggle , and his cries brought the people of the cabaret to his assistance . 
This crime , committed in open day , and in so public a place as a cabaret , filled Paris with consternation . 
The trial of the assassins commenced on the following day , and the evidence being so clear , they were both found guilty and condemned to be broken alive on the wheel . 
The noble relatives of the Count d'Horn absolutely blocked up the ante chambers of the Regent , praying for mercy on the misguided youth , and alleging that he was insane . 
Day after day they renewed their entreaties , but always with the same result . 
At last they thought that if they could interest the Duke de St . 
Simon in their layout , a man for whom the Regent felt sincere esteem , they might succeed in their object . 
For this reason he thought the punishment of the guilty Count might be transmuted into beheading , which was considered all over Europe as much less infamous . 
The relatives of D'Horn were now reduced to the last extremity . 
The Count d'Horn turned away his head , and refused to take it . 
The other assassin , Lestang , was never apprehended . 
But the number of robberies and assassinations did not diminish . 
The pernicious love of gambling diffused itself through society , and bore all public , and nearly all private , virtue before it . 
For a time , while confidence lasted , an impetus was given to trade , which could not fail to be beneficial . 
In Paris , especially , the good results were felt . 
Strangers flocked into the capital from every part , bent , not only upon making money , but on spending it . 
Provisions shared the general advance bread , meat , and vegetables were sold at prices greater than had ever before been known while the wages of labour rose in exactly the same proportion . 
The artisan , who formerly gained fifteen sous per diem , now gained sixty . 
Law himself , the magician whose wand had wrought so surprising a change , shared , of course , in the general prosperity . 
His wife and daughter were courted by the highest nobility , and their alliance sought by the heirs of ducal and princely houses . 
He bought two splendid estates in different parts of France , and entered into a negotiation with the family of the Duke de Sully for the purchase of the Marquisate of Rosny . 
His religion being an obstacle to his advancement , the Regent promised , if he would publicly conform to the Catholic faith , to make him comptroller general of the finances . 
Roch , upon which occasion he made it a present of the sum of five hundred thousand livres . 
His charities , always magnificent , were not always so ostentatious . 
He gave away great sums privately , and no tale of real distress ever reached his ears in vain . 
At this time , he was by far the most influential person of the state . 
The Duke of Orleans had so much confidence in his sagacity , and the success of his plans , that he always consulted him upon every matter of moment . 
He was by no means unduly elevated by his prosperity , but remained the same simple , affable , sensible man that he had shown himself in adversity . 
If upon any occasion he showed any symptoms of haughtiness , it was to the cringing nobles , who lavished their adulation upon him till it became fulsome . 
He often took pleasure in seeing how long he could make them dance attendance upon him for a single favour . 
To such of his own countrymen as by chance visited Paris , and sought an interview with him , he was , on the contrary , all politeness and attention . 
It was debated for a length of time in the Parliament of Paris whether he had not , in his quality of spice merchant , forfeited his rank in the peerage . 
It was decided in the negative . 
A caricature of him was made , dressed as a street porter , carrying a large bale of spices on his back , with the inscription , Admirez La Force . 
, de Chaulnes , and d'Antin the Marechal d'Estrees , the Princes de Rohan , de Poix , and de Leon . 
The Duke de Bourbon , son of Louis XIV by Madame de Montespan , was peculiarly fortunate in his speculations in Mississippi paper . 
He bought a large extent of country in Picardy , and became possessed of nearly all the valuable lands lying between the Oise and the Somme . 
When fortunes such as these were gained , it is no wonder that Law should have been almost worshipped by the mercurial population . 
Never was monarch more flattered than he was . 
All the small poets and litterateurs of the day poured floods of adulation upon him . 
So great a crowd followed his carriage whenever he went abroad , that the Regent sent him a troop of horse as his permanent escort , to clear the streets before him . 
It was remarked at this time , that Paris had never before been so full of objects of elegance and luxury . 
Statues , pictures , and tapestries were imported in great quantities from foreign countries , and found a ready market . 
Jewellery of the most costly description was brought to Paris as the most favourable mart . 
Among the rest , the famous diamond , bought by the Regent , and called by his name , and which long adorned the crown of France . 
The Regent was continually importuned about it but all in vain , until the Duke de St . 
Simon , who , with all his ability , was something of a twaddler , undertook the weighty business . 
His entreaties , being seconded by Law , the good natured Regent gave his consent , leaving to Law's ingenuity to find the means to pay for it . 
The owner took security for the payment of the sum of two millions of livres within a stated period , receiving , in the mean time , the interest of five per cent . 
upon that amount , and being allowed , besides , all the valuable clippings of the gem . 
Simon , in his Memoirs , relates , with no little complacency , his share in this transaction . 
Thus the system continued to flourish till the commencement of the year . 
The warnings of the Parliament , that too great a creation of paper money would , sooner or later , bring the country to bankruptcy , were disregarded . 
The Regent , who knew nothing whatever of the philosophy of finance , thought that a system which had produced such good effects could never be carried to excess . 
If five hundred millions of paper had been of such advantage , five hundred millions additional would be of still greater advantage . 
This was the grand error of the Regent , and which Law did not attempt to dispel . 
The extraordinary avidity of the people kept up the delusion and the higher the price of Indian and Mississippi stock , the more billets de banque were issued to keep pace with it . 
So with Law and his paper system . 
No sooner did the breath of popular mistrust blow steadily upon it , than it fell to ruins , and none could raise it up again . 
The first slight alarm that was occasioned was early in . 
Law complained to the Regent , and urged on his attention the mischief that would be done , if such an example found many imitators . 
The Prince was forced to obey the despotic mandate . 
Happily for Law's credit , De Conti was an unpopular man everybody condemned his meanness and cupidity , and agreed that Law had been hardly treated . 
It is strange , however , that so narrow an escape should not have made both Law and the Regent more anxious to restrict their issues . 
Others were soon found who imitated , from motives of distrust , the example which had been set by De Conti in revenge . 
The more acute stockjobbers imagined justly that prices could not continue to rise for ever . 
They also bought as much as they could conveniently carry of plate and expensive jewellery , and sent it secretly away to England or to Holland . 
He then disguised himself in the dirty smock frock , or blouse , of a peasant , and drove his precious load in safety into Belgium . 
From thence he soon found means to transport it to Amsterdam . 
Hitherto no difficulty had been experienced by any class in procuring specie for their wants . 
But this system could not long be carried on without causing a scarcity . 
The voice of complaint was heard on every side , and inquiries being instituted , the cause was soon discovered . 
The edict was published accordingly but , failing of its intended effect , was followed by another , in which the depreciation was increased to ten per cent . 
The payments of the bank were at the same time restricted to one hundred livres in gold , and ten in silver . 
All these measures were nugatory to restore confidence in the paper , though the restriction of cash payments within limits so extremely narrow kept up the credit of the Bank . 
Notwithstanding every effort to the contrary , the precious metals continued to be conveyed to England and Holland . 
The little coin that was left in the country was carefully treasured , or hidden until the scarcity became so great , that the operations of trade could no longer be carried on . 
In this emergency , Law hazarded the bold experiment of forbidding the use of specie altogether . 
of coin in his possession , under pain of a heavy fine , and confiscation of the sums found . 
The whole country sent up a cry of distress at this unheard of tyranny . 
The most odious persecution daily took place . 
The privacy of families was violated by the intrusion of informers and their agents . 
The most virtuous and honest were denounced for the crime of having been seen with a louis d'or in their possession . 
It was sufficient for an informer to say that he suspected any person of concealing money in his house , and immediately a search warrant was granted . 
Every epithet that popular hatred could suggest was showered upon the Regent and the unhappy Law . 
Coin , to any amount above five hundred livres , was an illegal tender , and nobody would take paper if he could help it . 
No one knew to day what his notes would be worth to morrow . 
Never , says Duclos , in his Secret Memoirs of the Regency , was seen a more capricious government never was a more frantic tyranny exercised by hands less firm . 
It would appear that , at one time , a movement of the people was organised . 
Seditious writings were posted up against the walls , and were sent , in hand bills , to the houses of the most conspicuous people . 
One of them , given in the Memoires de la Regence , was to the following effect Sir and Madam , This is to give you notice that a St . 
Bartholomew's Day will be enacted again on Saturday and Sunday , if affairs do not alter . 
You are desired not to stir out , nor you , nor your servants . 
God preserve you from the flames ! Give notice to your neighbours . 
Dated Saturday , May th , . 
A last effort was therefore tried to restore the public confidence in the Mississippi project . 
For this purpose , a general conscription of all the poor wretches in Paris was made by order of government . 
They were paraded day after day through the streets with their pikes and shovels , and then sent off in small detachments to the out ports to be shipped for America . 
Two thirds of them never reached their destination , but dispersed themselves over the country , sold their tools for what they could get , and returned to their old course of life . 
In less than three weeks afterwards , one half of them were to be found again in Paris . 
The manoeuvre , however , caused a trifling advance in Mississippi stock . 
Many persons of superabundant gullibility believed that operations had begun in earnest in the new Golconda , and that gold and silver ingots would again be found in France . 
In a constitutional monarchy some surer means would have been found for the restoration of public credit . 
The arbitrary will of the Regent , which endeavoured to extricate the country , only plunged it deeper into the mire . 
But the alarm once sounded , no art could make the people feel the slightest confidence in paper which was not exchangeable into metal . 
When such was the general feeling , the superabundant issues of paper but increased the evil , by rendering still more enormous the disparity between the amount of specie and notes in circulation . 
Coin , which it was the object of the Regent to depreciate , rose in value on every fresh attempt to diminish it . 
In February , it was judged advisable that the Royal Bank should be incorporated with the Company of the Indies . 
An edict to that effect was published and registered by the Parliament . 
The state remained the guarantee for the notes of the bank , and no more were to be issued without an order in council . 
, and all the ministers were present . 
It was then computed that the total amount of notes in circulation was millions of livres , while the coin in the country was not quite equal to half that amount . 
It was evident to the majority of the council that some plan must be adopted to equalise the currency . 
Law is said to have opposed both these projects , but failing in suggesting any other , it was agreed that the notes should be depreciated one half . 
the bank stopped payment in specie . 
Law and D'Argenson were both dismissed from the ministry . 
The weak , vacillating , and cowardly Regent threw the blame of all the mischief upon Law , who , upon presenting himself at the Palais Royal , was refused admitance . 
At nightfall , however , he was sent for , and admitted into the palace by a secret door , Duclos , Memoires Secrets de la Regence . 
when the Regent endeavoured to console him , and made all manner of excuses for the severity with which in public he had been compelled to treat him . 
But such was the hatred against Law that the experiment had well nigh proved fatal to him . 
On the following day , his wife and daughter were also assailed by the mob as they were returning in their carriage from the races . 
When the Regent was informed of these occurrences he sent Law a strong detachment of Swiss guards , who were stationed night and day in the court of his residence . 
The Chancellor , D'Aguesseau , who had been dismissed in for his opposition to the projects of Law , was now recalled to aid in the restoration of credit . 
The Regent acknowledged too late , that he had treated with unjustifiable harshness and mistrust one of the ablest , and perhaps the sole honest public man of that corrupt period . 
Every one was permitted to have as much specie as he pleased . 
The bank notes withdrawn were publicly burned in front of the Hotel de Ville . 
These measures were productive of considerable advantage . 
All the population of Paris hastened to the bank , to get coin for their small notes and silver becoming scarce , they were paid in copper . 
The crowds around the bank were so great , that hardly a day passed that some one was not pressed to death . 
The crowd became incensed , and flung stones through the railings upon the soldiers . 
The latter , incensed in their turn , threatened to fire upon the people . 
At that instant one of them was hit by a stone , and , taking up his piece , he fired into the crowd . 
One man fell dead immediately , and another was severely wounded . 
Eight days afterwards the concourse of people was so tremendous , that fifteen persons were squeezed to death at the doors of the bank . 
The mob immediately set upon him , and , thinking that Law was in the carriage , broke it to pieces . 
The imprudent coachman narrowly escaped with his life . 
The Parliament was sitting at the time of this uproar , and the President took upon himself to go out and see what was the matter . 
On his return he informed the councillors , that Law's carriage had been broken by the mob . 
With this end in view , it was proposed that the exclusive privilege of all maritime commerce should be secured to it , and an edict to that effect was published . 
But it was unfortunately forgotten that by such a measure all the merchants of the country would be ruined . 
The idea of such an immense privilege was generally scouted by the nation , and petition on petition was presented to the Parliament , that they would refuse to register the decree . 
They refused accordingly , and the Regent , remarking that they did nothing but fan the flame of sedition , exiled them to Blois . 
At the intercession of D'Aguesseau , the place of banishment was changed to Pontoise , and thither accordingly the councillors repaired , determined to set the Regent at defiance . 
They made every arrangement for rendering their temporary exile as agreeable as possible . 
The President gave the most elegant suppers , to which he invited all the gayest and wittiest company of Paris . 
Every night there was a concert and ball for the ladies . 
Of all the nations in the world the French are the most renowned for singing over their grievances . 
Of that country it has been remarked with some truth , that its whole history may be traced in its songs . 
Many of these songs were far from decent and one of them in particular counselled the application of all his notes to the most ignoble use to which paper can be applied . 
The application of the chorus is happy enough Aussitot que Lass arriva Dans notre bonne ville , Monsieur le Regent publia Que Lass serait utile Pour retablir la nation . 
La faridondaine ! la faridondon . 
It was thus described by its author The 'Goddess of Shares , in her triumphal car , driven by the Goddess of Folly . 
Upon the ground are the merchandise , day books and ledgers of legitimate commerce , crushed under the chariot of Folly . 
Over the first door are the words , Hopital des Foux , over the second , Hopital des Malades , and over the third , Hopital des Gueux . 
While this excitement lasted , Law took good care not to expose himself unguarded in the streets . 
An amusing anecdote is recorded of the detestation in which he was held by the people , and the ill treatment he would have met , had he fallen into their hands . 
A gentleman , of the name of Boursel , was passing in his carriage down the Rue St . 
Antoine , when his further progress was stayed by a hackneycoach that had blocked up the road . 
M. Boursel's servant called impatiently to the hackneycoachman to get out of the way , and , on his refusal , struck him a blow on the face . 
A crowd was soon drawn together by the disturbance , and M. Boursel got out of the carriage to restore order . 
The twenty five millions secured on the municipal revenues of the city of Paris , bearing so low an interest as two and a half per cent . 
, were not very popular among the large holders of Mississippi stock . 
In October following another edict was passed , depriving these notes of all value whatever after the month of November next ensuing . 
This was the deathblow to the whole system , which had now got into the hands of its enemies . 
All those suspected of illegal profits at the time the public delusion was at its height , were sought out and amerced in heavy fines . 
Against such few as escaped , the punishment of death was recorded , while the most arbitrary proceedings were instituted against those who remained . 
Law himself , in a moment of despair , determined to leave a country where his life was no longer secure . 
He at first only demanded permission to retire from Paris to one of his country seats a permission which the Regent cheerfully granted . 
The latter was much affected at the unhappy turn affairs had taken , but his faith continued unmoved in the truth and efficacy of Law's financial system . 
He at the same time offered him any sum of money he might require . 
Law respectfully declined the money , and set out for Brussels in a postchaise belonging to Madame de Prie , the mistress of the Duke of Bourbon , escorted by six horse guards . 
No opinion , however , could be more erroneous . 
He invested all his gains in the purchase of landed property in France a sure proof of his own belief in the stability of his schemes . 
He had hoarded no plate or jewellery , and sent no money , like the dishonest jobbers , to foreign countries . 
This fact alone ought to rescue his memory from the charge of knavery , so often and so unjustly brought against him . 
As soon as his departure was known , all his estates and his valuable library were confiscated . 
Great discontent existed among the people that Law had been suffered to escape . 
The mob and the Parliament would have been pleased to have seen him hanged . 
seeing that the thing had been irrevocably done , had screened Law , by antedating the decrees of the council , which authorised the augmentation . 
The securities of the latter were ordered to be destroyed , while those of the first four classes were subjected to a most rigid and jealous scrutiny . 
The result of the labours of the visa was a report , in which they counselled the reduction of the interest upon these securities to fifty six millions of livres . 
The first two were sentenced to be beheaded , and the latter to be hanged but their punishment was afterwards commuted into imprisonment for life in the Bastile . 
Numerous other acts of dishonesty were discovered , and punished by fine and imprisonment . 
D'Argenson shared with Law and the Regent the unpopularity which had alighted upon all those concerned in the Mississippi madness . 
He thought it better , however , to withdraw from Paris , and live for a time a life of seclusion at his country seat . 
But he was not formed for retirement , and becoming moody and discontented , he aggravated a disease under which he had long laboured , and died in less than a twelvemonth . 
The populace of of Paris so detested him , that they carried their hatred even to his grave . 
As his funeral procession passed to the church of St . 
As regards Law , he for some time entertained a hope that he should be recalled to France , to aid in establishing its credit upon a firmer basis . 
He was more than once obliged to pawn his diamond , the sole remnant of his vast wealth , but successful play generally enabled him to redeem it . 
He was brought over in the admiral's ship , a circumstance which gave occasion for a short debate in the House of Lords . 
He gave notice of a motion on the subject but it was allowed to drop , no other member of the House having the slightest participation in his lordship's fears . 
Law remained for about four years in England , and then proceeded to Venice , where he died in , in very embarrassed circumstances . 
The following epitaph was written at the time Ci git cet Ecossais celebre , Ce calculateur sans egal , Qui , par les regles de l'algebre , A mis la France a l'Hopital . 
He was liberated after fifteen months , and became the founder of a family , which is still known in France under the title of Marquises of Lauriston . 
The minister took great credit to himself for his share in this transaction , and the scheme was always called by his flatterers the Earl of Oxford's masterpiece . 
Even at this early period of its history , the most visionary ideas were formed by the company and the public of the immense riches of the eastern coast of South America . 
Philip V of Spain , however , never had any intention of admitting the English to a free trade in the ports of Spanish America . 
The latter permission was only granted upon the hard condition , that the King of Spain should enjoy one fourth of the profits , and a tax of five per cent . 
The first voyage of the annual ship was not made till the year , and in the following year the trade was suppressed by the rupture with Spain . 
The two great monetary corporations , the South Sea Company and the Bank of England , made proposals to Parliament on the th of May ensuing . 
The South Sea Company prayed that their capital stock of ten millions might be increased to twelve , by subscription or otherwise , and offered to accept five per cent . 
instead of six upon the whole amount . 
The Bank made proposals equally advantageous . 
The House debated for some time , and finally three acts were passed , called the South Sea Act , the Bank Act , and the General Fund Act . 
The General Fund Act recited the various deficiencies , which were to be made good by the aids derived from the foregoing sources . 
The name of the South Sea Company was thus continually before the public . 
Though their trade with the South American States produced little or no augmentation of their revenues , they continued to flourish as a monetary corporation . 
Their stock was in high request , and the directors , buoyed up with success , began to think of new means for extending their influence . 
The Mississippi scheme of John Law , which so dazzled and captivated the French people , inspired them with an idea that they could carry on the same game in England . 
The anticipated failure of his plans did not divert them from their intention . 
Visions of boundless wealth floated before the fascinated eyes of the people in the two most celebrated countries of Europe . 
The English commenced their career of extravagance somewhat later than the French but as soon as the delirium seized them , they were determined not to be outdone . 
The further consideration of the matter was accordingly postponed for five days . 
In the mean time , a plan was drawn up by the Governors of the Bank . 
The principal change was a stipulation that the government might redeem these debts at the expiration of four years , instead of seven , as at first suggested . 
The Bank resolved not to be outbidden in this singular auction , and the Governors also reconsidered their first proposal , and sent in a new one . 
Thus , each corporation having made two proposals , the House began to deliberate . 
Mr. Robert Walpole was the chief speaker in favour of the Bank , and Mr. Aislabie , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the principal advocate on behalf of the South Sea Company . 
It was resolved , on the nd of February , that the proposals of the latter were most advantageous to the country . 
They were accordingly received , and leave was given to bring in a bill to that effect . 
Exchange Alley was in a fever of excitement . 
Mr. Walpole was almost the only statesman in the House who spoke out boldly against it . 
He warned them , in eloquent and solemn language , of the evils that would ensue . 
It countenanced , he said , the dangerous practice of stockjobbing , and would divert the genius of the nation from trade and industry . 
It would hold out a dangerous lure to decoy the unwary to their ruin , by making them part with the earnings of their labour for a prospect of imaginary wealth . 
If it failed , which he was convinced it would , the result would bring general discontent and ruin upon the country . 
All his eloquence was in vain . 
He was looked upon as a false prophet , or compared to the hoarse raven , croaking omens of evil . 
The bill was two months in its progress through the House of Commons . 
The most extravagant rumours were in circulation . 
For cotton and woollen goods , with which we could supply them in abundance , the dwellers in Mexico were to empty their golden mines . 
The company of merchants trading to the South Seas would be the richest the world ever saw , and every hundred pounds invested in it would produce hundreds per annum to the stockholder . 
In the House of Lords the bill was hurried through all its stages with unexampled rapidity . 
Several peers spoke warmly against the scheme but their warnings fell upon dull , cold ears . 
A speculating frenzy had seized them as well as the plebeians . 
Lord North and Grey said the bill was unjust in its nature , and might prove fatal in its consequences , being calculated to enrich the few and impoverish the many . 
Earl Cowper followed on the same side , and compared the bill to the famous horse of the siege of Troy . 
Like that , it was ushered in and received with great pomp and acclamations of joy , but bore within it treachery and destruction . 
The Earl of Sunderland endeavoured to answer all objections and , on the question being put , there appeared only seventeen peers against , and eighty three in favour of the project . 
The very same day on which it passed the Lords , it received the Royal assent , and became the law of the land . 
It seemed at that time as if the whole nation had turned stockjobbers . 
Exchange Alley was every day blocked up by crowds , and Cornhill was impassable for the number of carriages . 
Everybody came to purchase stock . 
Every fool aspired to be a knave . 
In the words of a ballad , published at the time , and sung about the streets , A South Sea Ballad or , Merry Remarks upon Exchange Alley Bubbles . 
To a new tune , called The Grand Elixir or , the Philosopher's Stone Discovered . 
Then stars and garters did appear Among the meaner rabble To buy and sell , to see and hear , The Jews and Gentiles squabble . 
The greatest ladies thither came , And plied in chariots daily , Or pawned their jewels for a sum To venture in the Alley . 
The inordinate thirst of gain that had afflicted all ranks of society , was not to be slaked even in the South Sea . 
Other schemes , of the most extravagant kind , were started . 
Contrary to all expectation , South Sea stock fell when the bill received the Royal assent . 
On the th of April the shares were quoted at three hundred and ten , and . 
on the following day , at two hundred and ninety . 
Immediately their busy emissaries were set to work . 
Every person interested in the success of the project endeavoured to draw a knot of listeners around him , to whom he expatiated on the treasures of the South American seas . 
Exchange Alley was crowded with attentive groups . 
One rumour alone , asserted with the utmost confidence , had an immediate effect upon the stock . 
Instead of one annual ship trading to those ports , and allowing the King of Spain twenty five per cent . 
out of the profits , the Company might build and charter as many ships as they pleased , and pay no per centage whatever to any foreign potentate . 
Visions of ingots danced before their eyes , and stock rose rapidly . 
Such was the concourse of persons , of all ranks , that this first subscription was found to amount to above two millions of original stock . 
It was to be paid at five payments , of pounds each for every pounds . 
In a few days the stock advanced to three hundred and forty , and the subscriptions were sold for double the price of the first payment . 
To raise the stock still higher , it was declared , in a general court of directors , on the st of April , that the midsummer dividend should be ten per cent . 
, and that all subscriptions should be entitled to the same . 
In the mean time , innumerable joint stock companies started up everywhere . 
They soon received the name of Bubbles , the most appropriate that imagination could devise . 
The populace are often most happy in the nicknames they employ . 
None could be more apt than that of Bubbles . 
Some of them lasted for a week , or a fortnight , and were no more heard of , while others could not even live out that short span of existence . 
Every evening produced new schemes , and every morning new projects . 
The highest of the aristocracy were as eager in this hot pursuit of gain as the most plodding jobber in Cornhill . 
The Prince of Wales became governor of one company , and is said to have cleared , pounds by his speculations . 
Coxe's Walpole , Correspondence between Mr. Secretary Craggs and Earl Stanhope . 
The Duke of Bridgewater started a scheme for the improvement of London and Westminster , and the Duke of Chandos another . 
There were nearly a hundred different projects , each more extravagant and deceptive than the other . 
Some of these schemes were plausible enough , and , had they been undertaken at a time when the public mind was unexcited , might have been pursued with advantage to all concerned . 
But they were established merely with the view of raising the shares in the market . 
The projectors took the first opportunity of a rise to sell out , and next morning the scheme was at an end . 
The shares of this company were rapidly subscribed for . 
Were not the fact stated by scores of credible witnesses , it would be impossible to believe that any person could have been duped by such a project . 
Each subscriber , paying his deposit , would be entitled to pounds per annum per share . 
Next morning , at nine o'clock , this great man opened an office in Cornhill . 
He was thus , in five hours , the winner of , pounds . 
He was philosopher enough to be contented with his venture , and set off the same evening for the Continent . 
He was never heard of again . 
Another fraud that was very successful , was that of the Globe Permits , as they were called . 
These permits sold for as much as sixty guineas in the Alley . 
So great was the confusion of the crowd in the alley , that shares in the same bubble were known to have been sold at the same instant ten per cent . 
higher at one end of the alley than at the other . 
Sensible men beheld the extraordinary infatuation of the people with sorrow and alarm . 
There were some , both in and out of Parliament , who foresaw clearly the ruin that was impending . 
Mr. Walpole did not cease his gloomy forebodings . 
His fears were shared by all the thinking few , and impressed most forcibly upon the government . 
Notwithstanding this proclamation , roguish speculators still carried them on , and the deluded people still encouraged them . 
Present , their Excellencies the Lords Justices in Council . 
Petition of several persons , praying letters patent for carrying on a fishing trade , by the name of the Grand Fishery of Great Britain . 
Petition of the Company of the Royal Fishery of England , praying letters patent for such further powers as will effectually contribute to carry on the said fishery . 
Petition of George James , on behalf of himself and divers persons of distinction concerned in a national fishery praying letters patent of incorporation to enable them to carry on the same . 
Petition of several merchants , traders , and others , whose names are thereunto subscribed , praying to be incorporated for reviving and carrying on a whale fishery to Greenland and elsewhere . 
Another petition for a Greenland trade . 
Petition of several merchants , gentlemen , and citizens , praying to be incorporated . 
for buying and building of ships to let or freight . 
Petition of Samuel Antrim and others , praying for letters patent for sowing hemp and flax . 
Petition of Edward Jones , a dealer in timber , on behalf of himself and others , praying to be incorporated for the importation of timber from Germany . 
Petition of several merchants of London , praying a charter of incorporation for carrying on a salt work . 
The following Bubble Companies were by the same order declared to be illegal , and abolished accordingly . 
For the importation of Swedish iron . 
For supplying London with sea coal . 
For building and rebuilding houses throughout all England . 
For carrying on and improving the British alum works . 
For effectually settling the island of Blanco and Sal Tartagus . 
For supplying the town of Deal with fresh water . 
For the importation of Flanders lace . 
For improvement of lands in Great Britain . 
For encouraging the breed of horses in England , and improving of glebe and church lands , and for repairing and rebuilding parsonage and vicarage houses . 
For making of iron and steel in Great Britain . 
For improving the land in the county of Flint . 
For purchasing lands to build on . 
For erecting salt works in Holy Island . 
For buying and selling estates , and lending money on mortgage . 
For carrying on an undertaking of great advantage , but nobody to know what it is . 
For paving the streets of London . 
For furnishing funerals to any part of Great Britain . 
For buying and selling lands and lending money at interest . 
For carrying on the Royal Fishery of Great Britain . 
For assuring of seamen's wages . 
For erecting loan offices for the assistance and encouragement of the industrious . 
For purchasing and improving leasable lands . 
For importing pitch and tar , and other naval stores , from North Britain and America . 
For the clothing , felt , and pantile trade . 
For purchasing and improving a manor and royalty in Essex . 
For exporting the woollen manufacture , and importing copper , brass , and iron . 
For erecting mills and purchasing lead mines . 
For improving the art of making soap . 
For a settlement on the island of Santa Cruz . 
For sinking pits and smelting lead ore in Derbyshire . 
For making glass bottles and other glass . 
For a wheel for perpetual motion . 
For insuring and increasing children's fortunes . 
For entering and loading goods at the custom house , and for negotiating business for merchants . 
For carrying on a woollen manufacture in the north of England . 
For importing walnut trees from Virginia . 
For making Manchester stuffs of thread and cotton . 
For making Joppa and Castile soap . 
For improving the wrought iron and steel manufactures of this kingdom . 
For dealing in lace , Hollands , cambrics , lawns , c . 
For trading in and improving certain commodities of the produce of this kingdom , c . 
For supplying the London markets with cattle . 
For making looking glasses , coach glasses , c . 
For working the tin and lead mines in Cornwall and Derbyshire . 
For making pasteboard and packing paper . 
For importing of oils and other materials used in the woollen manufacture . 
For improving and increasing the silk manufactures . 
For lending money on stock , annuities , tallies , c . 
For paying pensions to widows and others , at a small discount . 
For a grand American fishery . 
For purchasing and improving the fenny lands in Lincolnshire . 
For improving the paper manufacture of Great Britain . 
For drying malt by hot air . 
For carrying on a trade in the river Oronooko . 
For the more effectual making of baize , in Colchester and other parts of Great Britain . 
For buying of naval stores , supplying the victualling , and paying the wages of the workmen . 
For employing poor artificers , and furnishing merchants and others with watches . 
For improvement of tillage and the breed of cattle . 
Another for the improvement of our breed of horses . 
Another for a horse insurance . 
For carrying on the corn trade of Great Britain . 
For insuring to all masters and mistresses the losses they may sustain by servants . 
For erecting houses or hospitals , for taking in and maintaining illegitimate children . 
For bleaching coarse sugars , without the use of fire or loss of substance . 
For building turnpikes and wharfs in Great Britain . 
For insuring from thefts and robberies . 
For extracting silver from lead . 
For making China and Delft ware . 
For importing tobacco , and exporting it again to Sweden and the north of Europe . 
For making iron with pit coal . 
For furnishing the cities of London and Westminster with hay and straw . 
For a sail and packing cloth manufactory in Ireland . 
For buying and fitting out ships to suppress pirates . 
For the importation of timber from Wales . 
For the transmutation of quicksilver into a malleable fine metal . 
Besides these bubbles , many others sprang up daily , in spite of the condemnation of the Government and the ridicule of the still sane portion of the public . 
The print shops teemed with caricatures , and the newspapers with epigrams and satires , upon the prevalent folly . 
One of the most famous bubbles was Puckle's Machine Company , for discharging round and square cannon balls and bullets , and making a total revolution in the art of war . 
Its pretensions to public favour were thus summed up , on the eight of spades A rare invention to destroy the crowd Of fools at home , instead of fools abroad . 
Fear not , my friends , this terrible machine , They're only wounded who have shares therein . 
And in a similar style every card of the pack exposed some knavish scheme , and ridiculed the persons who were its dupes . 
It is time , however , to return to the great South Sea gulf , that swallowed the fortunes of so many thousands of the avaricious and the credulous . 
During the whole of the month of May the stock continued to rise , and on the th it was quoted at five hundred and fifty . 
In four days after this it took a prodigious leap , rising suddenly from five hundred and fifty to eight hundred and ninety . 
It was now the general opinion that the stock could rise no higher , and many persons took that opportunity of selling out , with a view of realising their profits . 
Many noblemen and persons in the train of the King , and about to accompany him to Hanover , were also anxious to sell out . 
The directors were alarmed , and gave their agents orders to buy . 
Towards evening confidence was restored , and the stock advanced to seven hundred and fifty . 
It continued at this price , with some slight fluctuation , until the company closed their books on the nd of June . 
It would be needless and uninteresting to detail the various arts employed by the directors to keep up the price of stock . 
It will be sufficient to state that it finally rose to one thousand per cent . 
It was quoted at this price in the commencement of August . 
The bubble was then full blown , and began to quiver and shake , preparatory to its bursting . 
Many of the government annuitants expressed dissatisfaction against the directors . 
They accused them of partiality in making out the lists for shares in each subscription . 
Further uneasiness was occasioned by its being generally known that Sir John Blunt , the chairman , and some others , had sold out . 
During the whole of the month of August the stock fell , and on the nd of September it was quoted at seven hundred only . 
The state of things now became alarming . 
By nine o'clock in the morning , the room was filled to suffocation Cheapside was blocked up by a crowd unable to gain admittance , and the greatest excitement prevailed . 
The directors and their friends mustered in great . 
Sir John Fellowes , the sub governor , was called to the chair . 
They had done more than the crown , the pulpit , or the bench could do . 
They had reconciled all parties in one common interest they had laid asleep , if not wholly extinguished , all the domestic jars and animosities of the nation . 
By the rise of their stock , monied men had vastly increased their fortunes country gentlemen had seen the value of their lands doubled and trebled in their hands . 
They had at the same time done good to the Church , not a few of the reverend clergy having got great sums by the project . 
In short , they had enriched the whole nation , and he hoped they had not forgotten themselves . 
Several resolutions were passed at this meeting , but they had no effect upon the public . 
Upon the very same evening the stock fell to six hundred and forty , and on the morrow to five hundred and forty . 
Day after day it continued to fall , until it was as low as four hundred . 
I made no doubt but they would do so when they found it to their advantage . 
They have stretched credit so far beyond what it would bear , that specie proves insufficient to support it . 
Thousands of families will be reduced to beggary . 
By several gentlemen lately come to town , I perceive the very name of a South Sea man grows abominable in every country . 
A great many goldsmiths are already run off , and more will daily . 
I question whether one third , nay , one fourth , of them can stand it . 
could not circulate two hundred millions , beyond which our paper credit extended . 
That , therefore , whenever that should become doubtful , be the cause what it would , our noble state machine must inevitably fall to the ground . 
On the th of September , at the earnest solicitation of Mr. Secretary Craggs , several conferences were held between the directors of the South Sea and the directors of the Bank . 
, in that disastrous year , had a present from young Craggs of some South Sea stock , and once supposed himself to be master of twenty thousand pounds . 
His friends persuaded him to sell his share , but he dreamed of dignity and splendour , and could not bear to obstruct his own fortune . 
This counsel was rejected the profit and principal were lost , and Gay sunk under the calamity so low that his life became in danger . 
Johnson's Lives of the Poets . 
The ministry were seriously alarmed at the aspect of affairs . 
The directors could not appear in the streets without being insulted dangerous riots were every moment apprehended . 
Despatches were sent off to the King at Hanover , praying his immediate return . 
But the universal voice of the nation called upon it to come to the rescue . 
Every person of note in commercial politics was called in to advise in the emergency . 
A rough draft of a contract drawn up by Mr. Walpole was ultimately adopted as the basis of further negotiations , and the public alarm abated a little . 
One of the speakers , a Mr. Pulteney , said it was most surprising to see the extraordinary panic which had seized upon the people . 
Men were running to and fro in alarm and terror , their imaginations filled with some great calamity , the form and dimensions of which nobody knew . 
Black it stood as night Fierce as ten furies terrible as hell . 
Thus both parties were at liberty to act as they might judge best for the public interest . 
Books were opened at the Bank for a subscription of three millions for the support of public credit , on the usual terms of pounds per cent . 
In spite of all that could be done to prevent it , the South Sea Company's stock fell rapidly . 
The Sword blade Company , who had hitherto been the chief cashiers of the South Sea Company , stopped payment . 
, and the Bank had a little breathing time . 
They bore up against the storm but their former rivals , the South Sea Company , were wrecked upon it . 
Their stock fell to one hundred and fifty , and gradually , after various fluctuations , to one hundred and thirty five . 
In the hey day of its blood , during the progress of this dangerous delusion , the manners of the nation became sensibly corrupted . 
It is a deeply interesting study to investigate all the evils that were the result . 
Nations , like individuals , cannot become desperate gamblers with impunity . 
Punishment is sure to overtake them sooner or later . 
On the contrary , and Smollett might have discovered it , if he had been in the humour the subject is capable of inspiring as much interest as even a novelist can desire . 
During the progress of this famous bubble , England presented a singular spectacle . 
The public mind was in a state of unwholesome fermentation . 
Men were no longer satisfied with the slow but sure profits of cautious industry . 
The hope of boundless wealth for the morrow made them heedless and extravagant for to day . 
A luxury , till then unheard of , was introduced , bringing in its train a corresponding laxity of morals . 
The haughtiness of some of these cyphering cits , as they were termed by Sir Richard Steele , was remembered against them in the day of their adversity . 
In the Parliamentary inquiry , many of the directors suffered more for their insolence than for their peculation . 
The state of matters all over the country was so alarming , that George I shortened his intended stay in Hanover , and returned in all haste to England . 
He arrived on the th of November , and Parliament was summoned to meet on the th of December . 
Nobody seemed to imagine that the nation itself was as culpable as the South Sea Company . 
These things were never mentioned . 
The people were a simple , honest , hard working people , ruined by a gang of robbers , who were to be hanged , drawn , and quartered without mercy . 
This was the almost unanimous feeling of the country . 
The two Houses of Parliament were not more reasonable . 
Before the guilt of the South Sea directors was known , punishment was the only cry . 
In the debate on the answer to the address , several speakers indulged in the most violent invectives against the directors of the South Sea project . 
The Lord Molesworth was particularly vehement . 
They adjudged the guilty wretch to be sown in a sack , and thrown alive into the Tyber . 
Other members spoke with as much want of temper and discretion . 
Mr. Walpole was more moderate . 
He recommended that their first care should be to restore public credit . 
If the city of London were on fire , all wise men would aid in extinguishing the flames , and preventing the spread of the conflagration before they inquired after the incendiaries . 
Public credit had received a dangerous wound , and lay bleeding , and they ought to apply a speedy remedy to it . 
It was time enough to punish the assassin afterwards . 
The directors were ordered to lay before the House a full account of all their proceedings . 
The plan was favourably received by the House . 
After some few objections , it was ordered that proposals should be received from the two great corporations . 
They were both unwilling to lend their aid , and the plan met with a warm but fruitless opposition at the general courts summoned for the purpose of deliberating upon it . 
All the most influential members of the House supported the bill . 
He said , he was glad to see a British House of Commons resuming its pristine vigour and spirit , and acting with so much unanimity for the public good . 
Loud cries of order immediately arose on every side . 
In the midst of the uproar Lord Molesworth got up , and expressed his wonder at the boldness of Mr. Craggs in challenging the whole House of Commons . 
The cries of order again resounded from every side the members arose simultaneously everybody seemed to be vociferating at once . 
The Speaker in vain called order . 
The confusion lasted several minutes , during which Lord Molesworth and Mr. Craggs were almost the only members who kept their seats . 
At last the call for Mr. Craggs became so violent that he thought proper to submit to the universal feeling of the House , and explain his unparliamentary expression . 
He said , that by giving satisfaction to the impugners of his conduct in that House , he did not mean that he would fight , but that he would explain his conduct . 
Ultimately , a Secret Committee of thirteen was appointed , with power to send for persons , papers , and records . 
The Lords were as zealous and as hasty as the Commons . 
The Bishop of Rochester said the scheme had been like a pestilence . 
The nation had been plundered in a most shameful and flagrant manner , and he would go as far as anybody in the punishment of the offenders . 
Lord Stanhope said , that every farthing possessed by the criminals , whether directors or not directors , ought to be confiscated , to make good the public losses . 
During all this time the public excitement was extreme . 
We learn , front Coxe's Walpole , that the very name of a South Sea director was thought to be synonymous . 
with every species of fraud and villany . 
When this account was delivered , it appeared that large quantities of stock had been transferred to the use of Mr. Aislabie . 
Five of the South Sea directors , ineluding Mr. Edward Gibbon , the grandfather of the celebrated historian , were ordered into the custody of the black rod . 
Mr. Aislabie resigned his office as Chancellor of the Exchequer , and absented himself from Parliament until the formal inquiry into his individual guilt was brought under the consideration of the Legislature . 
He embarked in disguise , in a small boat on the river , and proceeding to a vessel hired for the purpose , was safely conveyed to Calais . 
The ink was hardly dry upon these addresses before they were carried to the King by Mr. Methuen , deputed by the House for that purpose . 
The same evening a royal proclamation was issued , offering a reward of two thousand pounds for the apprehension of Knight . 
The Commons ordered the doors of the House to be locked , and the keys to be placed upon the table . 
A motion to this effect having been made , was carried unanimously . 
Sir Theodore Janssen and Mr. Sawbridge answered to their names , and endeavoured to exculpate themselves . 
The House heard them patiently , and then ordered them to withdraw . 
It was then ordered that , for their offence , they should be expelled the House , and taken into the custody of the sergeant at arms . 
Sir Robert Chaplin and Mr. Eyles , attending in their places four days afterwards , were also expelled the House . 
The King at once agreed , and messengers were despatched to all parts of the Continent the same night . 
Among the directors taken into custody , was Sir John Blunt , the man whom popular opinion has generally accused of having been the original author and father of the scheme . 
He constantly declaimed against the luxury and corruption of the age , the partiality of parliaments , and the misery of party spirit . 
He was particularly eloquent against avarice in great and noble persons . 
He was originally a scrivener , and afterwards became , not only a director , but the most active manager of the South Sea Company . 
Whether it was during his career in this capacity that he first began to declaim against the avarice of the great , we are not informed . 
He was brought up in custody to the bar of the House of Lords , and underwent a long examination . 
He refused to answer several important questions . 
This declaration , in itself an indirect proof of guilt , occasioned some commotion in the House . 
He again declined to answer . 
He was anxious , he said , to treat the House with all possible respect , but he thought it hard to be compelled to accuse himself . 
After several ineffectual attempts to refresh his memory , he was directed to withdraw . 
A violent discussion ensued between the friends and opponents of the ministry . 
It was asserted that the administration were no strangers to the convenient taciturnity of Sir John Blunt . 
The Duke of Wharton made a reflection upon the Earl Stanhope , which the latter warmly resented . 
He spoke under great excitement , and with such vehemence as to cause a sudden determination of blood to the head . 
He felt himself so ill that he was obliged to leave the House and retire to his chamber . 
He was cupped immediately , and also let blood on the following morning , but with slight relief . 
The fatal result was not anticipated . 
Towards evening he became drowsy , and turning himself on his face , expired . 
The sudden death of this statesman caused great grief to the nation . 
George I was exceedingly affected , and shut himself up for some hours in his closet , inconsolable for his loss . 
Repeated applications were made to the court of Austria to deliver him up , but in vain . 
Knight threw himself upon the protection of the states of Brabant , and demanded to be tried in that country . 
It was a privilege granted to the states of Brabant by one of the articles of the Joyeuse Entree , that every criminal apprehended in that country should be tried in that country . 
The states insisted on their privilege , and refused to deliver Knight to the British authorities . 
The latter did not cease their solicitations but in the mean time , Knight escaped from the citadel . 
On the th of February the Committee of Secrecy made their first report to the House . 
In some of the books produced before them , false and fictitious entries had been made in others , there were entries of money , with blanks for the name of the stockholders . 
There were frequent erasures and alterations , and in some of the books leaves were torn out . 
They also found that some books of great importance had been destroyed altogether , and that some had been taken away or secreted . 
At the very entrance into their inquiry , they had observed that the matters referred to them were of great variety and extent . 
This stock was all fictitious , and had been disposed of with a view to promote the passing of the bill . 
It was noted as sold at various days , and at various prices , from to per cent . 
The governor , sub governor , and several directors were brought before them , and examined rigidly . 
, the difference by the advanced price was to be made good to them . 
, pounds to the Swordblade Company , pounds . 
, but that his name had been partly erased from their books , and altered to Stangape . 
Aislabie , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , had made profits still more abominable . 
He had an account with the same firm , who were also South Sea directors , to the amount of , pounds . 
He had , besides , advised the Company to make their second subscription one million and a half , instead of a million , by their own authority , and without any warrant . 
The third subscription had been conducted in a manner as disgraceful . 
Mr. Aislabie's name was down for , pounds Mr. Craggs , senior , for , pounds the Earl of Sunderland's for , pounds and Mr. Stanhope for , pounds . 
This report was succeeded by six others , less important . 
At the end of the last , the committee declared that the absence of Knight , who had been principally intrusted , prevented them from carrying on their inquiries . 
The first report was ordered to be printed , and taken into consideration on the next day but one succeeding . 
Their practices were declared to be corrupt , infamous , and dangerous and a bill was ordered to be brought in for the relief of the unhappy sufferers . 
Mr. Charles Stanhope was the first person brought to account for his share in these transactions . 
As to the stock that had been bought for him by Turner , Caswall , and Co . 
he knew nothing about it . 
Whatever had been done in that matter was done without his authority , and he could not be responsible for it . 
He was , however , acquitted by a majority of three only . 
The greatest exertions were made to screen him . 
Many weak headed country gentlemen were led astray by his persuasions , and the result was as already stated . 
The acquittal caused the greatest discontent throughout the country . 
Mr. Aislabie , whose high office and deep responsibilities should have kept him honest , even had native principle been insufficient , was very justly regarded as perhaps the greatest criminal of all . 
His case was entered into on the day succeeding the acquittal of Mr. Starthope . 
Great excitement prevailed , and the lobbies and avenues of the house were beset by crowds , impatient to know the result . 
The debate lasted the whole day . 
Mr. Aislabie found few friends his guilt was so apparent and so heinous that nobody had courage to stand up in his favour . 
This verdict caused the greatest joy . 
Though it was delivered at half past twelve at night , it soon spread over the city . 
Several persons illuminated their houses in token of their joy . 
On the following day , when Mr. Aislabie was conveyed to the Tower , the mob assembled on Tower hill with the intention of hooting and pelting him . 
Not succeeding in this , they kindled a large bonfire , and danced around it in the exuberance of their delight . 
Several bonfires were made in other places London presented the appearance of a holiday , and people congratulated one another as if they had just escaped from some great calamity . 
The rage upon the acquittal of Mr. Stanhope had grown to such a height that none could tell where it would have ended , had Mr. Aislabie met with the like indulgence . 
To increase the public satisfaction , Sir George Caswall , of the firm of Turner , Caswall , Co . 
was expelled the House on the following day , and ordered to refund the sum of , pounds . 
That part of the report of the Committee of Secrecy which related to the Earl of Sunderland was next taken into consideration . 
Every effort was made to clear his Lordship from the imputation . 
All the friends of the ministry rallied around the Earl , it being generally reported that a verdict of guilty against him would bring a Tory ministry into power . 
He was eventually acquitted , by a majority of against but the country was convinced of his guilt . 
The greatest indignation was everywhere expressed , and menacing mobs again assembled in London . 
Happily no disturbances took place . 
This was the day on which Mr. Craggs , the elder , expired . 
The morrow had been appointed for the consideration of his case . 
It was very generally believed that he had poisoned himself . 
The dread of further exposure increased his trouble of mind , and ultimately brought on an apoplectic fit , in which he expired . 
He left a fortune of a million and a half , which was afterwards confiscated for the benefit of the sufferers by the unhappy delusion he had been so mainly instrumental in raising . 
One by one the case of every director of the Company was taken into consideration . 
Sir John Lambert , pounds out of , pounds . 
Others , less deeply involved , were treated with greater liberality . 
If only on the principle of audi alteram partem , his opinion is entitled to consideration . 
But his fortune was overwhelmed in the shipwreck of the year twenty , and the labours of thirty years were blasted in a single day . 
Of the use or abuse of the South Sea scheme , of the guilt or innocence of my grandfather and his brother directors , I am neither a competent nor a disinterested judge . 
Yet the equity of modern times must condemn the violent and arbitrary proceedings , which would have disgraced the cause of justice , and rendered injustice still more odious . 
The Legislature restrained the persons of the directors , imposed an exorbitant security for their appearance , and marked their character with a previous note of ignominy . 
They were compelled to deliver , upon oath , the strict value of their estates , and were disabled from making any transfer or alienation of any part of their property . 
Against a bill of pains and penalties , it is the common right of every subject to be heard by his counsel at the bar . 
They prayed to be heard . 
Their prayer was refused , and their oppressors , who required no evidence , would listen to no defence . 
Injury was aggravated by insult , and insult was embittered by pleasantry . 
Allowances of pounds or shilling were facetiously moved . 
A vague report that a director had formerly been concerned in another project , by which some unknown persons had lost their money , was admitted as a proof of his actual guilt . 
All were condemned , absent and unheard , in arbitrary fines and forfeitures , which swept away the greatest part of their substance . 
Such bold oppression can scarcely be shielded by the omnipotence of Parliament . 
My grandfather could not expect to be treated with more lenity than his companions . 
His Tory principles and connexions rendered him obnoxious to the ruling powers . 
His name was reported in a suspicious secret . 
His well known abilities could not plead the excuse of ignorance or error . 
The total estimate , which he delivered on oath to the House of Commons , amounted to , pounds shillings pence , exclusive of antecedent settlements . 
Two different allowances of , pounds and of , pounds were moved for Mr. Gibbon but , on the question being put , it was carried without a division for the smaller sum . 
The labours of sixteen years were amply rewarded and I have reason to believe that the second structure was not much inferior to the first . 
The next consideration of the Legislature , after the punishment of the directors , was to restore public credit . 
The scheme of Walpole had been found insufficient , and had fallen into disrepute . 
A computation was made of the whole capital stock of the South Sea Company at the end of the year . 
It was found to amount to thirty seven millions eight hundred thousand pounds , of which the stock allotted to all the proprietors only amounted to twenty four millions five hundred thousand pounds . 
The remainder of thirteen millions three hundred thousand pounds belonged to the Company in their corporate capacity , and was the profit they had made by the national delusion . 
Upwards of eight millions of this were taken from the Company , and divided among the proprietors and subscribers generally , making a dividend of about pounds shillings pence per cent . 
This was a great relief . 
of the sums so borrowed . 
But it was a long time before public credit was thoroughly restored . 
She has never since attempted so high a flight . 
In times of great commercial prosperity there has been a tendency to over speculation on several occasions since then . 
The success of one project generally produces others of a similar kind . 
Popular imitativeness will always , in a trading nation , seize hold of such successes , and drag a community too anxious for profits into an abyss from which extrication is difficult . 
Bubble companies , of a kind similar to those engendered by the South Sea project , lived their little day in the famous year of the panic , . 
On that occasion , as in , knavery gathered a rich harvest from cupidity , but both suffered when the day of reckoning came . 
The schemes of the year threatened , at one time , results as disastrous but they were happily averted before it was too late . 
From the bitter experience of that period , posterity may learn how dangerous it is to let speculation riot unrestrained , and to hope for enormous profits from inadequate causes . 
Degrading as were the circumstances , there is wisdom to be gained from the lesson which they teach . 
Quis furor o cives ! Lucan . 
The tulip , so named , it is said , from a Turkish word , signifying a turban , was introduced into western Europe about the middle of the sixteenth century . 
The bulbs were sent to this gentleman by a friend at Constantinople , where the flower had long been a favourite . 
In the course of ten or eleven years after this period , tulips were much sought after by the wealthy , especially in Holland and Germany . 
Rich people at Amsterdam sent for the bulbs direct to Constantinople , and paid the most extravagant prices for them . 
The first roots planted in England were brought from Vienna in . 
Until the year the tulip annually increased in reputation , until it was deemed a proof of bad taste in any man of fortune to be without a collection of them . 
Many learned men , including Pompeius de Angelis and the celebrated Lipsius of Leyden , the author of the treatise De Constantia , were passionately fond of tulips . 
Cowley , it is true , is loud in its praise . 
This , though not very poetical , is the description of a poet . 
Beckmann , in his History of Inventions , paints it with more fidelity , and in prose more pleasing than Cowley's poetry . 
He says , There are few plants which acquire , through accident , weakness , or disease , so many variegations as the tulip . 
When uncultivated , and in its natural state , it is almost of one colour , has large leaves , and an extraordinarily long stem . 
When it has been weakened by cultivation , it becomes more agreeable in the eyes of the florist . 
The petals are then paler , smaller , and more diversified in hue and the leaves acquire a softer green colour . 
Many persons grow insensibly attached to that which gives them a great deal of trouble , as a mother often loves her sick and ever ailing child better than her more healthy offspring . 
Upon the same principle we must account for the unmerited encomia lavished upon these fragile blossoms . 
As the mania increased , prices augmented , until , in the year , many persons were known to invest a fortune of , florins in the purchase of forty roots . 
It then became necessary to sell them by their weight in perits , a small weight less than a grain . 
The latter was much sought after , and even an inferior bulb might command a price of florins . 
It is related that , at one time , early in , there were only two roots of this description to be had in all Holland , and those not of the best . 
One was in the possession of a dealer in Amsterdam , and the other in Harlaem . 
So anxious were the speculators to obtain them that one person offered the fee simple of twelve acres of building ground for the Harlaem tulip . 
That of Amsterdam was bought for florins , a new carriage , two grey horses , and a complete suit of harness . 
O A silver drinking cup . 
O People who had been absent from Holland , and whose chance it was to return when this folly was at its maximum , were sometimes led into awkward dilemmas by their ignorance . 
There is an amusing instance of the kind related in Blainville's Travels . 
A wealthy merchant , who prided himself not a little on his rare tulips , received upon one occasion a very valuable consignment of merchandise from the Levant . 
Intelligence of its arrival was brought him by a sailor , who presented himself for that purpose at the counting house , among bales of goods of every description . 
The merchant , to reward him for his news , munificently made him a present of a fine red herring for his breakfast . 
He got clear off with his prize , and proceeded to the quay to eat his breakfast . 
Hardly was his back turned when the merchant missed his valuable Semper Augustus , worth three thousand florins , or about pounds sterling . 
The whole establishment was instantly in an uproar search was everywhere made for the precious root , but it was not to be found . 
Great was the merchant's distress of mind . 
The search was renewed , but again without success . 
At last some one thought of the sailor . 
The unhappy merchant sprang into the street at the bare suggestion . 
His alarmed household followed him . 
The sailor , simple soul ! had not thought of concealment . 
He was found quietly sitting on a coil of ropes , masticating the last morsel of his onion . 
The most unfortunate part of the business for him was , that he remained in prison for some months , on a charge of felony , preferred against him by the merchant . 
Another story is told of an English traveller , which is scarcely less ludicrous . 
This gentleman , an amateur botanist , happened to see a tulip root lying in the conservatory of a wealthy Dutchman . 
Being ignorant of its quality , he took out his penknife , and peeled off its coats , with the view of making experiments upon it . 
Hundert tausend duyvel , said the Dutchman it's an Admiral Van der E. yck . 
In spite of his remonstrances , the traveller was led through the streets , followed by a mob of persons . 
Symptoms of gambling now became , for the first time , apparent . 
At first , as in all these gambling mania , confidence was at its height , and everybody gained . 
The tulip jobbers speculated in the rise and fall of the tulip stocks , and made large profits by buying when prices fell , and selling out when they rose . 
Many individuals grew suddenly rich . 
A golden bait hung temptingly out before the people , and , one after the other , they rushed to the tulip marts , like flies around a honeypot . 
The riches of Europe would be concentrated on the shores of the Zuyder Zee , and poverty banished from the favoured clime of Holland . 
Nobles , citizens , farmers , mechanics , seamen , footmen , maidservants , even chimney sweeps and old clotheswomen , dabbled in tulips . 
People of all grades converted their property into cash , and invested it in flowers . 
Houses and lands were offered for sale at ruinously low prices , or assigned in payment of bargains made at the tulip mart . 
Foreigners became smitten with the same frenzy , and money poured into Holland from all directions . 
The operations of the trade became so extensive and so intricate , that it was found necessary to draw up a code of laws for the guidance of the dealers . 
Notaries and clerks were also appointed , who devoted themselves exclusively to the interests of the trade . 
The designation of public notary was hardly known in some towns , that of tulip notary usurping its place . 
At last , however , the more prudent began to see that this folly could not last for ever . 
Rich people no longer bought the flowers to keep them in their gardens , but to sell them again at cent . 
It was seen that somebody must lose fearfully in the end . 
As this conviction spread , prices fell , and never rose again . 
Confidence was destroyed , and a universal panic seized upon the dealers . 
A had agreed to purchase ten Sempers Augustines from B , at four thousand florins each , at six weeks after the signing of the contract . 
Defaulters were announced day after day in all the towns of Holland . 
The cry of distress resounded everywhere , and each man accused his neighbour . 
The few who had contrived to enrich themselves hid their wealth from the knowledge of their fellow citizens , and invested it in the English or other funds . 
Many who , for a brief season , had emerged from the humbler walks of life , were cast back into their original obscurity . 
Substantial merchants were reduced almost to beggary , and many a representative of a noble line saw the fortunes of his house ruined beyond redemption . 
When the first alarm subsided , the tulip holders in the several towns held public meetings to devise what measures were best to be taken to restore public credit . 
It was generally agreed , that deputies should be sent from all parts to Amsterdam , to consult with the government upon some remedy for the evil . 
The Government at first refused to interfere , but advised the tulip holders to agree to some plan among themselves . 
The language of complaint and reproach was in everybody's mouth , and all the meetings were of the most stormy character . 
This decision gave no satisfaction . 
The vendors who had their tulips on hand were , of course , discontented , and those who had pledged themselves to purchase , thought themselves hardly treated . 
Tulips which had , at one time , been worth six thousand florins , were now to be procured for five hundred so that the composition of ten per cent . 
was one hundred florins more than the actual value . 
Actions for breach of contract were threatened in all the courts of the country but the latter refused to take cognizance of gambling transactions . 
Expectation was on the stretch for its decision , but it never came . 
This was exactly the plan recommended by the deputies , and which was already shown to be of no avail . 
There was no court in Holland which would enforce payment . 
The question was raised in Amsterdam , but the judges unanimously refused to interfere , on the ground that debts contracted in gambling were no debts in law . 
To find a remedy was beyond the power of the government . 
The example of the Dutch was imitated to some extent in England . 
In the year tulips were publicly sold in the Exchange of London , and the jobbers exerted themselves to the utmost to raise them to the fictitious value they had acquired in Amsterdam . 
In Paris also the jobbers strove to create a tulipomania . 
In both cities they only partially succeeded . 
The Dutch are still notorious for their partiality to them , and continue to pay higher prices for them than any other people . 
As the rich Englishman boasts of his fine race horses or his old pictures , so does the wealthy Dutchman vaunt him of his tulips . 
In England , in our day , strange as it may appear , a tulip will produce more money than an oak . 
If one could be found , rara in tetris , and black as the black swan alluded to by Juvenal , its price would equal that of a dozen acres of standing corn . 
These prices appear to have been the minimum . 
In the year , a common price was fifteen guineas for a single bulb . 
In , so foolish were the fanciers , that a bulb of the species called the Miss Fanny Kemble was sold by public auction in London for seventy five pounds . 
Still more astonishing was the price of a tulip in the possession of a gardener in the King's Road , Chelsea . 
In so doing , they would hardly be more foolish than the admirers of tulips . 
The common prices for these flowers at the present time vary from five to fifteen guineas , according to the rarity of the species . 
The love for relics is one which will never be eradicated as long as feeling and affection are denizens of the heart . 
It is a love which is most easily excited in the best and kindliest natures , and which few are callous enough to scoff at . 
They are home relics , whose sacred worth is intelligible to all spoils rescued from the devouring grave , which , to the affectionate , are beyond all price . 
Desiring to rescue some slight token from the graves of their predecessors , they have confounded the famous and the infamous , the renowned and the notorious . 
The reliquism of modern times dates its origin from the centuries immediately preceding the Crusades . 
The first pilgrims to the Holy Land brought back to Europe thousands of apocryphal relics , in the purchase of which they had expended all their store . 
The greatest favourite was the wood of the true cross , which , like the oil of the widow , never diminished . 
The Emperor Theodosius made a present of the greater part of it to St . 
Ambrose , Bishop of Milan , by whom it was studded with precious stones , and deposited in the principal church of that city . 
It was carried away by the Huns , by whom it was burnt , after they had extracted the valuable jewels it contained . 
Happy was the sinner who could get a sight of one of them happier he who possessed one ! To obtain them the greatest dangers were cheerfully braved . 
They were thought to preserve from all evils , and to cure the most inveterate diseases . 
Annual pilgrimages were made to the shrines that contained them , and considerable revenues collected from the devotees . 
Next in renown were those precious relics , the tears of the Saviour . 
By whom and in what manner they were preserved , the pilgrims did not often inquire . 
Their genuineness was vouched by the Christians of the Holy Land , and that was sufficient . 
Tears of the Virgin Mary , and tears of St . 
Peter , were also to be had , carefully enclosed in little caskets , which the pious might wear in their bosoms . 
After the tears the next most precious relics were drops of the blood of Jesus and the martyrs . 
Hair and toe nails were also in great repute , and were sold at extravagant prices . 
Thousands of pilgrims annually visited Palestine in the eleventh and twelfth centuries , to purchase pretended relics for the home market . 
The majority of them had no other means of subsistence than the profits thus obtained . 
Some of them are still shown in the cathedral of Aix la Chapelle . 
The pious come from a distance of a hundred German miles to feast their eyes upon them . 
How it came there , and by whom it was preserved , has never been explained . 
Voltaire , Siecle de Louis XIV . 
They are said to be the steps which Jesus ascended and descended when brought into the presence of the Roman governor . 
They are held in the greatest veneration at Rome it is sacrilegious to walk upon them . 
The knees of the faithful must alone touch them in ascending or descending , and that only after they have reverentially kissed them . 
Europe still swarms with these religious relics . 
There is hardly a Roman Catholic church in Spain , Portugal , Italy , France , or Belgium , without one or more of them . 
Even the poorly endowed churches of the villages boast the possession of miraculous thigh bones of the innumerable saints of the Romish calendar . 
Aix la Chapelle is proud of the veritable chasse , or thigh bone of Charlemagne , which cures lameness . 
Halle has a thighbone of the Virgin Mary Spain has seven or eight , all said to be undoubted relics . 
Brussels at one time preserved , and perhaps does now , the teeth of St . 
The faithful , who suffered from the tooth ache , had only to pray , look at them , and be cured . 
Some of these holy bones have been buried in different parts of the Continent . 
After a certain lapse of time , water is said to ooze from them , which soon forms a spring , and cures all the diseases of the faithful . 
At a church in Halle , there is a famous thigh bone , which cures barrenness in women . 
Of this bone , which is under the special superintendence of the Virgin , a pleasant story is related by the incredulous . 
There resided at Ghent a couple who were blessed with all the riches of this world , but whose happiness was sore troubled by the want of children . 
Great was the grief of the lady , who was both beautiful and loving , and many her lamentations to her husband . 
The latter , annoyed by her unceasing sorrow , advised her to make a pilgrimage to the celebrated chasse of the Virgin . 
She went , was absent a week , and returned with a face all radiant with joy and pleasure . 
Her lamentations ceased , and , in nine months afterwards , she brought forth a son . 
But , oh ! the instability of human joys ! The babe , so long desired and so greatly beloved , survived but a few months . 
Two years passed over the heads of the disconsolate couple , and no second child appeared to cheer their fire side . 
A third year passed away with the same result , and the lady once more began to weep . 
Cheer up , my love , said her husband , and go to the holy chasse , at Halle perhaps the Virgin will again listen to your prayers . 
The lady took courage at the thought , wiped away her tears , and proceeded on the morrow towards Halle . 
She was absent only three days , and returned home sad , weeping , and sorrow stricken . 
Women came from Essex , Kent , Suffolk , Sussex , and all the surrounding counties , to collect the mould at the foot of his gallows . 
A hair of his beard was believed to preserve from evil spirits , and a piece of his clothes from aches and pains . 
In more modern days , a similar avidity was shown to obtain a relic of the luckless Masaniello , the fisherman of Naples . 
His headless trunk was dragged through the mire for several hours , and cast at night fall into the city ditch . 
On the morrow the tide of popular feeling turned once more in his favour . 
Almost as extraordinary was the frenzy manifested by the populace of Paris on the execution of the atrocious Marchioness de Brinvilliers . 
There were grounds for the popular wonder in the case of Masaniello , who was unstained with personal crimes . 
But the career of Madame de Brinvilliers was of a nature to excite no other feelings than disgust and abhorrence . 
She was convicted of poisoning several persons , and sentenced to be burned in the Place de Greve , and to have her ashes scattered to the winds . 
On the day of her execution , the populace , struck by her gracefulness and beauty , inveighed against the severity of her sentence . 
Their pity soon increased to admiration , and , ere evening , she was considered a saint . 
Her ashes were industriously collected , even the charred wood , which had aided to consume her , was eagerly purchased by the populace . 
Her ashes were thought to preserve from witchcraft . 
In England many persons have a singular love for the relics of thieves and murderers , or other great criminals . 
The ropes with which they have been hanged are very often bought by collectors at a guinea per foot . 
Great sums were paid for the rope which hanged Dr . 
Dodd , and for those more recently which did justice upon Mr. Fauntleroy for forgery , and on Thurtell for the murder of Mr. Weare . 
The murder of Maria Marten , by Corder , in the year , excited the greatest interest all over the country . 
People came from Wales and Scotland , and even from Ireland , to visit the barn where the body of the murdered woman was buried . 
Every one of them was anxious to carry away some memorial of his visit . 
Pieces of the barn door , tiles from the roof , and , above all , the clothes of the poor victim , were eagerly sought after . 
A lock of her hair was sold for two guineas , and the purchaser thought himself fortunate in getting it so cheaply . 
In earlier times , a singular superstition was attached to the hand of a criminal who had suffered execution . 
It was thought that by merely rubbing the dead hand on the body , the patient afflicted with the king's evil would be instantly cured . 
The executioner at Newgate , sixty or seventy years ago , derived no inconsiderable revenue from this foolish practice . 
The possession of the hand was thought to be of still greater efficacy in the cure of diseases and the prevention of misfortunes . 
In the time of Charles II as much as ten guineas was thought a small price for one of these disgusting relics . 
When the maniac , Thom , or Courtenay , was shot , in the spring of , the relic hunters were immediately in motion to obtain a memento of so extraordinary an individual . 
His long , black beard and hair , which were cut off by the surgeons , fell into the hands of his disciples , by whom they are treasured with the utmost reverence . 
A lock of his hair commands a great price , not only amongst his followers , but among the more wealthy inhabitants of Canterbury and its neighbourhood . 
The tree against which he fell when he was shot , has already been stripped of all its bark by the curious , and bids fair to be entirely demolished within a twelvemonth . 
A letter , with his signature to it , is paid for in gold coins and his favourite horse promises to become as celebrated as his master . 
If a strict watch had not been kept over his grave for months , the body would have been disinterred , and the bones carried away as memorials . 
Among the Chinese no relics are more valued than the boots which have been worn by an upright magistrate . 
In Davis's interesting Description of the Empire of China , we are informed , that whenever a judge of unusual integrity resigns his situation , the people all congregate to do him honour . 
Among the most favourite relics of modern times , in Europe , are Shakspeare's mulberry tree , Napoleon's willow , and the table at Waterloo , on which the Emperor wrote his despatches . 
Snuffboxes of Shakspeare's mulberry tree , are comparatively rare , though there are doubtless more of them in the market than were ever made of the wood planted by the great bard . 
Many a piece of alien wood passes under this name . 
The same may be said of Napoleon's table at Waterloo . 
The original has long since been destroyed , and a round dozen of counterfeits along with it . 
Many preserve the simple stick of wood others have them cut into brooches and every variety of ornament but by far the greater number prefer them as snuff boxes . 
In France they are made into bonbonnieres , and are much esteemed by the many thousands whose cheeks still glow , and whose eyes still sparkle at the name of Napoleon . 
Bullets from the field of Waterloo , and buttons from the coats of the soldiers who fell in the fight , are still favourite relics in Europe . 
But the same ingenuity which found new tables after the old one was destroyed , has cast new bullets for the curious . 
Let all lovers of genuine relics look well to their money before they part with it to the ciceroni that swarm in the village of Waterloo . 
Few travellers stop at the lonely isle of St . 
Helena , without cutting a twig from the willow that droops over the grave of Napoleon . 
Many of them have since been planted in different parts of Europe , and have grown into trees as large as their parent . 
Relic hunters , who are unable to procure a twig of the original , are content with one from these . 
Several of them are growing in the neighbourhood of London , more prized by their cultivators than any other tree in their gardens . 
But in relics , as in everything else , there is the use and the abuse . 
The undoubted relics of great men , or great events , will always possess attractions for the thinking and refined . 
As epidemic terror of the end of the world has several times spread over the nations . 
The most remarkable was that which seized Christendom about the middle of the tenth century . 
The delusion appears to have been discouraged by the church , but it nevertheless spread rapidly among the people . 
See Gibbon and Voltaire for further notice of this subject . 
The scene of the last judgment was expected to be at Jerusalem . 
In the year , the number of pilgrims proceeding eastward , to await the coming of the Lord in that city , was so great that they were compared to a desolating army . 
Most of them sold their goods and possessions before they quitted Europe , and lived upon the proceeds in the Holy Land . 
Buildings of every sort were suffered to fall into ruins . 
It was thought useless to repair them , when the end of the world was so near . 
Many noble edifices were deliberately pulled down . 
Even churches , usually so well maintained , shared the general neglect . 
During the thousandth year the number of pilgrims increased . 
Most of them were smitten with terror as with a plague . 
Every phenomenon of nature filled them with alarm . 
A thunder storm sent them all upon their knees in mid march . 
It was the opinion that thunder was the voice of God , announcing the day of judgment . 
Numbers expected the earth to open , and give up its dead at the sound . 
Every meteor in the sky seen at Jerusalem brought the whole Christian population into the streets to weep and pray . 
Pomme Epique , par Lucien Buonaparte . 
Fanatic preachers kept up the flame of terror . 
Every shooting star furnished occasion for a sermon , in which the sublimity of the approaching judgment was the principal topic . 
The appearance of comets has been often thought to foretell the speedy dissolution of this world . 
Part of this belief still exists but the comet is no longer looked upon as the sign , but the agent of destruction . 
The danger of our globe was gravely discussed . 
Many persons refrained from undertaking or concluding any business during that year , in consequence solely of their apprehension that this terrible comet would dash us and our world to atoms . 
During seasons of great pestilence men have often believed the prophecies of crazed fanatics , that the end of the world was come . 
Credulity is always greatest in times of calamity . 
Prophecies of all sorts are rife on such occasions , and are readily believed , whether for good or evil . 
During the great plague , which ravaged all Europe , between the years and , it was generally considered that the end of the world was at hand . 
No little consternation was created in London in by the prophecy of the famous Whiston , that the world would be destroyed in that year , on the th of October . 
A satirical account of this folly is given in Swift's Miscellanies , vol . 
entitled , A True and Faithful Narrative of what passed in London on a Rumour of the Day of Judgment . 
An authentic narrative of this delusion would be interesting but this solemn witticism of Pope and Gay is not to be depended upon . 
Islington , Highgate , Hampstead , Harrow , and Blackheath , were crowded with panic stricken fugitives , who paid exorbitant prices for accommodation to the housekeepers of these secure retreats . 
Paul's totter , and the towers of Westminster Abbey rock in the wind and fall amid a cloud of dust . 
Bell lost all credit in a short time , and was looked upon even by the most credulous as a mere madman . 
He tried some other prophecies , but nobody was deceived by them and , in a few months afterwards , he was confined in a lunatic asylum . 
A panic terror of the end of the world seized the good people of Leeds and its neighbourhood in the year . 
It arose from the following circumstances . 
A hen , in a village close by , laid eggs , on which were inscribed , in legible characters , the words Christ is coming . 
Great numbers visited the spot , and examined these wondrous eggs , convinced that the day of judgment was near at hand . 
But a plain tale soon put them down , and quenched their religion entirely . 
Some gentlemen , hearing of the matter , went one fine morning , and caught the poor hen in the act of laying one of her miraculous eggs . 
They soon ascertained beyond doubt that the egg had been inscribed with some corrosive ink , and cruelly forced up again into the bird's body . 
At this explanation , those who had prayed , now laughed , and the world wagged as merrily as of yore . 
It is singular enough that the plague was foretold a year before it broke out . 
A large comet appearing in , the opinions of astrologers were divided with regard to it . 
The fulfilment of their prediction brought them into great repute while the plague was raging . 
Other prophecies were current , which were asserted to have been delivered hundreds of years previously . 
They had a most pernicious effect upon the mind of the vulgar , as they induced a belief in fatalism . 
By taking away the hope of recovery that greatest balm in every malady they increased threefold the ravages of the disease . 
One singular prediction almost drove the unhappy people mad . 
An ancient couplet , preserved for ages by tradition , foretold , that in the year the devil would poison all Milan . 
The whole population were speedily in movement to remark the strange appearance , and the greatest alarm spread rapidly . 
Every means was taken to discover the perpetrators , but in vain . 
At last the ancient prophecy was remembered , and prayers were offered up in all the churches that the machinations of the Evil One might be defeated . 
In the mean time the plague increased fearfully . 
Distrust and alarm took possession of every mind . 
Everything was believed to have been poisoned by the devil the waters of the wells , the standing corn in the fields , and the fruit upon the trees . 
It was believed that all objects of touch were poisoned the walls of the houses , the pavement of the streets , and the very handles of the doors . 
The populace were raised to a pitch of ungovernable fury . 
An old man , upwards of eighty years of age , a daily frequenter of the church of St . 
Antonio , was seen , on rising from his knees , to wipe with the skirt of his cloak the stool on which he was about to sit down . 
A cry was raised immediately that he was besmearing the seat with poison . 
Many other victims were sacrificed to the popular fury . 
One Mora , who appears to have been half a chemist and half a barber , was accused of being in league with the devil to poison Milan . 
His house was surrounded , and a number of chemical preparations were found . 
The poor man asserted , that they were intended as preservatives against infection but some physicians , to whom they were submitted , declared they were poison . 
Mora was put to the rack , where he for a long time asserted his innocence . 
He named several persons as his accomplices , who were apprehended and put to a similar torture . 
They were all found guilty , and executed . 
Mora's house was rased to the ground , and a column erected on the spot , with an inscription to commemorate his guilt . 
While the public mind was filled with these marvellous occurrences , the plague continued to increase . 
The crowds that were brought together to witness the executions , spread the infection among one another . 
But the fury of their passions , and the extent of their credulity , kept pace with the violence of the plague every wonderful and preposterous story was believed . 
One , in particular , occupied them to the exclusion , for a long time , of every other . 
The Devil himself had been seen . 
He had taken a house in Milan , in which he prepared his poisonous unguents , and furnished them to his emissaries for distribution . 
One man had brooded over such tales till he became firmly convinced that the wild flights of his own fancy were realities . 
He stationed himself in the market place of Milan , and related the following story to the crowds that gathered round him . 
The chariot was followed by a numerous train of domestics in dark liveries , mounted on dark coloured steeds . 
The look of the stranger was so sublime that he was awed , and trembled with fear when he gazed upon him . 
His complexion was much darker than that of any man he had ever seen , and the atmosphere around him was hot and suffocating . 
He perceived immediately that he was a being of another world . 
The stranger , seeing his trepidation , asked him blandly , yet majestically , to mount beside him . 
He had no power to refuse , and before he was well aware that he had moved , he found himself in the chariot . 
Onwards they went , with the rapidity of the wind , the stranger speaking no word , until they stopped before a door in the high street of Milan . 
There was a crowd of people in the street , but , to his great surprise , no one seemed to notice the extraordinary equipage and its numerous train . 
From this he concluded that they were invisible . 
The house at which they stopped appeared to be a shop , but the interior was like a vast half ruined palace . 
He went with his mysterious guide through several large and dimly lighted rooms . 
In one of them , surrounded by huge pillars of marble , a senate of ghosts was assembled , debating on the progress of the plague . 
At the rear of the mansion was a wild , uncultivated plot of ground , in the midst of which arose a black rock . 
tie now knew him to be the Devil , and in that moment of temptation , prayed to God to give him strength to resist . 
His prayer was heard he refused the bribe . 
He repeated this strange tale day after day , without any variation , and all the populace were firm believers in its truth . 
Repeated search was made to discover the mysterious house , but all in vain . 
The number of persons who confessed that they were employed by the Devil to distribute poison is almost incredible . 
An epidemic frenzy was abroad , which seemed to be as contagious as the plague . 
Imagination was as disordered as the body , and day after day persons came voluntarily forward to accuse themselves . 
They generally had the marks of disease upon them , and some died in the act of confession . 
During the great plague of London , in , the people listened with similar avidity to the predictions of quacks and fanatics . 
Defoe says , that at that time the people were more addicted to prophecies and astronomical conjurations , dreams , and old wives' tales than ever they were before or since . 
Almanacs , and their predictions , frightened them terribly . 
Even the year before the plague broke out , they were greatly alarmed by the comet which then appeared , and anticipated that famine , pestilence , or fire would follow . 
Enthusiasts , while yet the disease had made but little progress , ran about the streets , predicting that in a few days London would be destroyed . 
A still more singular instance of the faith in predictions occurred in London in the year . 
The city swarmed at that time with fortune tellers and astrologers , who were consulted daily by people of every class in society on the secrets of futurity . 
The prophecy met implicit belief . 
It was reiterated with the utmost confidence month after month , until so much alarm was excited that many families packed up their goods , and removed into Kent and Essex . 
As the time drew nigh , the number of these emigrants increased . 
In January , droves of workmen might be seen , followed by their wives and children , trudging on foot to the villages within fifteen or twenty miles , to await the catastrophe . 
People of a higher class were also to be seen , in waggons and other vehicles , bound on a similar errand . 
Bolton , the prior of St . 
Bartholomew's , was so alarmed that he erected , at very great expense , a sort of fortress at Harrow on the Hill , which he stocked with provisions for two months . 
At last the morn , big with the fate of London , appeared in the east . 
The wondering crowds were astir at an early hour to watch the rising of the waters . 
But the majority were too much alarmed to trust to this , and thought themselves safer ten or twenty miles off . 
The Thames , unmindful of the foolish crowds upon its banks , flowed on quietly as of yore . 
The tide ebbed at its usual hour , flowed to its usual height , and then ebbed again , just as if twenty astrologers had not pledged their words to the contrary . 
Blank were their faces as evening approached , and as blank grew the faces of the citizens to think that they had made such fools of themselves . 
At last night set in , and the obstinate river would not lift its waters to sweep away even one house out of the ten thousand . 
Still , however , the people were afraid to go to sleep . 
Many hundreds remained up till dawn of the next day , lest the deluge should come upon them like a thief in the night . 
On the morrow , it was seriously discussed whether it would not be advisable to duck the false prophets in the river . 
Luckily for them , they thought of an expedient which allayed the popular fury . 
of a little figure , they had fixed the date of this awful inundation a whole century too early . 
The stars were right after all , and they , erring mortals , were wrong . 
The present generation of cockneys was safe , and London 'would be washed away , not in , but in . 
At this announcement , Bolton , the prior , dismantled his fortress , and the weary emigrants came back . 
An eye witness of the great fire of London , in an account preserved among the Harleian MSS . 
in the British Museum , and recently published in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Antiquaries , relates another instance of the credulity of the Londoners . 
Mother Shipton , in one of her prophecies , had said that London would be reduced to ashes , and they refused to make any efforts to prevent it . 
Hundreds of persons , who might have rendered valuable assistance , and saved whole parishes from devastation , folded their arms and looked on . 
As many more gave themselves up , with the less compunction , to plunder a city which they could not save . 
The prophecies of Mother Shipton are still believed in many of the rural districts of England . 
In cottages and servants' halls her reputation is great and she rules , the most popular of British prophets , among all the uneducated , or half educated , portions of the community . 
Never a day passed , says her traditionary biography , wherein she did not relate something remarkable , and that required the most serious consideration . 
People flocked to her from far and near , her fame was so great . 
She also foretold the accession of James I , adding that , with him , From the cold North , Every evil should come forth . 
That fiery year as soon as o'er , Peace shall then be as before Plenty shall everywhere be found , And men with swords shall plough the ground . 
But the most famous of all her prophecies is one relating to London . 
Thousands of persons still shudder to think of the woes that are to burst over this unhappy realm , when London and Highgate are joined by one continuous line of houses . 
Revolutions the fall of mighty monarchs , and the shedding of much blood are to signalise that event . 
The very angels , afflicted by our woes , are to turn aside their heads , and weep for hapless Britain . 
But great as is the fame of Mother Shipton , she ranks but second in the list of British prophets . 
Merlin , the mighty Merlin , stands alone in his high pre eminence the first and greatest . 
As old Drayton sings , in his Poly olbion Of Merlin and his skill what region doth not hear ? The world shall still be full of Merlin every year . 
A thousand lingering years his prophecies have run , And scarcely shall have end till time itself be done . 
Spenser , in his divine poem , has given us a powerfid description of this renowned seer . 
who had in magic more insight Than ever him before , or after , living wight . 
In these verses the poet has preserved the popular belief with regard to Merlin , who is generally supposed to have been a contemporary of Vortigern . 
Opinion is divided as to whether he were a real personage , or a mere impersonation , formed by the poetic fancy of a credulous people . 
In a Life of Merlin , with his Prophecies and Predictions . 
interpreted and made good by our English Annals , by Thomas Heywood , published in the reign of Charles I , we find several of these pretended prophecies . 
They seem , however , to have been all written by Heywood himself . 
They are in terms too plain and positive to allow any one to doubt for a moment of their having been composed ex post facto . 
But while abroad these great acts shall be done All things at home shall to disorder run . 
Cooped up and caged then shall the Lion be , But , after sufferance , ransomed and set free . 
The sapient Thomas Heywood gravely goes on to inform us , that all these things actually came to pass . 
Upon Richard III he is equally luminous . 
Master Heywood closes Merlin's prophecies at his own day , and does not give even a glimpse of what was to befall England after his decease . 
As this did not happen , Heywood , . 
This is not unlike the subterfuge of Peter of Pontefract , who had prophesied the death and deposition of King John , and who was hanged by that monarch for his pains . 
A very graphic and amusing account of this pretended prophet is given by Grafton , in his Chronicles of England . 
There is so much homely vigour about the style of the old annalist , that it would be a pity to give the story in other words than his own . 
Chronicles of England , by Richard Grafton London , , p . 
, that neither he nor any of his stock or lineage should reigne after that day . 
The king hering of this , laughed much at it , and made but a scoff thereat . 
'Tush ! saith he , 'it is but an ideot knave , and such an one as lacketh his right wittes . 
So that every daye newe slanders were laide upon the King , and not one of them true . 
King John was labouring under a sentence of excommunication at the time . 
He had not else done it so sodeinely . 
But he was most lowly deceived , as all they are and shall be that put their trust in such dark drowsye dreames of hipocrites . 
The King therefore commanded that he should be hanged up , and his sonne also with him , lest any more false prophets should arise of that race . 
He says , that Peter , who was not only a prophet , but a bard , predicted divers of King John's disasters , which fell out accordingly . 
On being taxed for a lying prophet in having predicted that the King would be deposed before . 
Heywood thought this explanation to be perfectly satisfactory , and the prophet's faith for ever established . 
But to return to Merlin . 
The judge of the district , hearing of so marvellous an occurrence , summoned both mother and child to appear before him and they went accordingly the same day . 
His worship clapped his hands in astonishment , and took the prudent resolution of not molesting so awful a child , or its mother either . 
Early tradition attributes the building of Stonehenge to the power of Merlin . 
At Abergwylly , near Caermarthen , is still shown the cave of the prophet and the scene of his incantations . 
How beautiful is the description of it given by Spenser in his Faerie Queene . 
The cause , they say , is this . 
The popular accounts of this man say , that he was born of poor parents , not far from Vale Royal , on the edge of the forest of Delamere . 
He was brought up to the plough , but was so ignorant and stupid , that nothing could be made of him . 
Everybody thought him irretrievably insane , and paid no attention to the strange , unconnected discourses which he held . 
Many of his prophecies are believed to have been lost in this manner . 
But they were not always destined to be wasted upon dull and inattentive ears . 
An incident occurred which brought him into notice , and established his fame as a prophet of the first calibre . 
It was not long before the fame of the new prophet reached the ears of the King , who expressed a wish to see and converse with him . 
A messenger was accordingly despatched to bring him to court but long before he reached Cheshire , Nixon knew and dreaded the honours that awaited him . 
On his arrival King Henry appeared to be troubled exceedingly at the loss of a valuable diamond , and asked Nixon if he could inform him where it was to be found . 
Henry had hidden the diamond himself , with a view to test the prophet's skill . 
Great , therefore , was his surprise when Nixon answered him in the words of the old proverb , Those who hide can find . 
From that time forth the King implicitly believed that he had the gift of prophecy , and ordered all his words to be taken down . 
Henry would not suffer it , but gave strict orders to all his officers and cooks to give him as much to eat as he wanted . 
He lived so well , that for some time he seemed to be thriving like a nobleman's steward , and growing as fat as an alderman . 
One day the king went out hunting , when Nixon ran to the palace gate , and entreated on his knees that he might not be left behind to be starved . 
The King laughed , and , calling an officer , told him to take especial care of the prophet during his absence , and rode away to the forest . 
After his departure , the servants of the palace began to jeer at and insult Nixon , whom they imagined to be much better treated than he deserved . 
But it so happened that a messenger arrived from the King to this officer , requiring his immediate presence at Winchester , on a matter of life and death . 
So great was his haste to obey the King's command , that he mounted on the horse behind the messenger , and rode off , without bestowing a thought upon poor Nixon . 
Crows shall drink the blood of many nobles , And the North shall rise against the South . 
The third , relative to the invasion of England by a nation with snow on their helmets , is supposed by the old women to foretell most clearly the coming war with Russia . 
As to the last , there are not a few in the town mentioned who devoutly believe that such will be its fate . 
The anti climax would be too palpable , and they and their doings must be left uncommemorated . 
POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR GREAT THIEVES . 
Where shall we find such another set of practical philosophers who , to a man , are above the fear of death ? Wat . 
Sound men and true ! Robin . 
Of tried courage and indefatigable industry ! Ned . 
Who is there here that would not die for his friend ? Harry . 
Who is there here that would betray him for his interest ? Mat . 
Show me a gang of courtiers that could say as much ! Dialogue of thieves in the Beggars' Opera . 
Perhaps both these causes combine to invest their career with charms in the popular eye . 
Those travellers who have made national manners and characteristics their peculiar study , have often observed and remarked upon this feeling . 
Tales of their address , their cunning , or their generosity , were in the mouths of everybody , and a noted thief was a kind of hero in high repute . 
Among these traditional thieves the most noted in England , or perhaps in any country , is Robin Hood , a name which popular affection has encircled with a peculiar halo . 
His charity to the poor , and his gallantry and respect for women , have made him the pre eminent thief of all the world . 
He was one day told a story with which the relator was he the highest degree delighted . 
Another story , told by one of Turpin's admirers , was of a robbery he had committed upon a Mr. C. near Cambridge . 
The promise being given , they both parted very courteously . 
They afterwards met at Newmarket , and renewed their acquaintance . 
Turpin offered to bet with him on some favourite horse , and Mr. C. accepted the wager with as good a grace as he could have done from the best gentleman in England . 
The narrator of this anecdote was quite proud that England was the birthplace of such a highwayman . 
This achievement , more than once repeated , has encircled his felon brow with the wreath of immortality , and made him quite a pattern thief among the populace . 
He was no more than twenty three years of age at the time of his execution , and he died much pitied by the crowd . 
His adventures were the sole topics of conversation for months the print shops were filled with his effigies , and a fine painting of him was made by Sir Richard Thornhill . 
The following complimentary verses to the artist appeared in the British Journal of November th , . 
All the scenes were painted from nature , including the public house that the robber frequented in Claremarket , and the condemned cell from which he had made his escape in Newgate . 
Poets too often , are not fully appreciated till they have been dead a hundred years , and thieves , it would appear , share the disadvantage . 
Jack , the romantic , is the hero of three goodly volumes , and the delight of the circulating libraries and the theatres have been smitten with the universal enthusiasm . 
Jonathan Wild , whose name has been immortalised by Fielding , was no favourite with the people . 
He had none of the virtues which , combined with crimes , make up the character of the great thief . 
He was a pitiful fellow , who informed against his comrades , and was afraid of death . 
This meanness was not to be forgiven by the crowd , and they pelted him with dirt and stones on his way to Tyburn , and expressed their contempt by every possible means . 
The death of Claude Duval would appear to have been no less triumphant . 
Claude was a gentlemanly thief . 
In fact , he was the pink of politeness , and his gallantry to the fair sex was proverbial . 
When he was caught at last , pent in stone walls and chains and iron grates , their grief was in proportion to his rare merits and his great fame . 
Among the noted thieves of France , there is none to compare with the famous Aimerigot Tetenoire , who flourished in the reign of Charles VI . 
This fellow was at the head of four or five hundred men , and possessed two very strong castles in Limousin and Auvergne . 
There was a good deal of the feudal baron about him , although he possessed no revenues but such as the road afforded him . 
At his death he left a singular will . 
I give and bequeath , said the robber , one thousand five hundred francs to St . 
George's Chapel , for such repairs as it may need . 
To my sweet girl who so tenderly loved me , I give two thousand five hundred and the surplus I give to my companions . 
I hope they will all live as brothers , and divide it amicably among them . 
Let them scramble for what it contains , and the Devil seize the hindmost . 
The people of Auvergne still recount with admiration the daring feats of this brigand . 
Of later years , the French thieves have been such unmitigated scoundrels as to have left but little room for popular admiration . 
He was born at Paris , towards the end of the seventeenth century , and broken alive on the wheel in November . 
In our own day the French have been more fortunate in a robber Vidocq bids fair to rival the fame of Turpin and Jack Sheppard . 
Charity from such a source is so unexpected , that the people dote upon them for it . 
And the fellow spoke truth . 
In Lombardy , the people cherish the memory of two notorious robbers , who flourished about two centuries ago under the Spanish government . 
Schinderhannes , the robber of the Rhine , is a great favourite on the banks of the river which he so long kept in awe . 
Many amusing stories are related by the peasantry of the scurvy tricks he played off upon rich Jews , or too presuming officers of justice of his princely generosity , and undaunted courage . 
There is another robber hero , of whose character and exploits the people of Germany speak admiringly . 
Mausch Nadel was captain of a considerable band that infested the Rhine , Switzerland , Alsatia , and Lorraine during the years , , and . 
Like Jack Sheppard , he endeared himself to the populace by his most hazardous escape from prison . 
He was captured again in , tried at Mayence , and sentenced to death . 
He was a tall , strong , handsome man , and his fate , villain as he was , excited much sympathy all over Germany . 
The ladies especially were loud in their regret that nothing could be done to save a hero so good looking , and of adventures so romantic , from the knife of the headsman . 
Mr. Macfarlane , in speaking of Italian banditti , remarks , that the abuses of the Catholic religion , with its confessions and absolutions , have tended to promote crime of this description . 
But , he adds , more truly , that priests and monks have not done half the mischief which has been perpetrated by ballad mongers and story tellers . 
If he had said play wrights also , the list would have been complete . 
So numerous were the banditti at this time , that the Duke found no difficulty in raising an army of . 
them , to aid him in his endeavours to seize on the throne of Naples . 
He thus describes them See also Foreign Quarterly Review , vol . 
They were three thousand five hundred men , of whom the oldest came short of five and forty years , and the youngest was above twenty . 
The Beggars' Opera , in our own country , is another instance of the admiration that thieves excite upon the stage . 
This piece was received with greater applause than was ever known . 
It made its progress into Wales , Scotland , and Ireland , where it was performed twenty four days successively . 
The ladies carried about with them the favourite songs of it in fans , and houses were furnished with it in screens . 
The fame of it was not confined to the author only . 
The person who acted Polly , till then obscure , became all at once the favourite of the town Lavinia Fenton , afterwards Duchess of Bolton . 
her pictures were engraved and sold in great numbers her life written , books of letters and verses to her published , and pamphlets made even of her sayings and jests . 
Furthermore , it drove out of England , for that season , the Italian Opera , which had carried all before it for ten years . 
We have another instance of the same result much nearer our own times . 
Schiller's Rauber , that wonderful play , written by a green youth , perverted the taste and imagination of all the young men in Germany . 
, speaking of this play , says it was the first he ever read , and such was the effect it produced on him , that it stunned him , like a blow . 
Lord Byron , with his soliloquising , high souled thieves , has , in a slight degree , perverted the taste of the greenhorns and incipient rhymesters of his country . 
As yet , however , they have shown more good sense than their fellows of Germany , and have not taken to the woods or the highways . 
Much as they admire Conrad the Corsair , they will not go to sea , and hoist the black flag in emulation of him . 
But it is the play wright who does most harm and Byron has fewer sins of this nature to answer for than Gay or Schiller , and the modern dramatizers of Jack Sheppard . 
There the footpad , the burglar , and the highwayman are portrayed in unnatural colours , and give pleasant lessons in crime to their delighted listeners . 
There the deepest tragedy and the broadest farce are represented in the career of the murderer and the thief , and are applauded in proportion to their depth and their breadth . 
With the mere reader the case is widely different and most people have a partiality for knowing the adventures of noted rogues . 
Even in fiction they are delightful witness the eventful story of Gil Blas de Santillane , and of that great rascal Don Guzman d'Alfarache . 
Here there is no fear of imitation . 
The probability , however , seems to be , that the charmers will charm in vain , charm they ever so wisely . 
INFLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION ON THE HAIR AND BEARD . 
Speak with respect and honour Both of the beard and the beard's owner . 
HUDIBRAS , The famous declaration of St . 
Paul , that long hair was a shame unto a man has been made the pretext for many singular enactments , both of civil and ecclesiastical governments . 
The fashion of the hair and the cut of the beard were state questions in France and England from the establishment of Christianity until the fifteenth century . 
We find , too , that in much earlier times men were not permitted to do as they liked with their own hair . 
At one time , long hair was the symbol of sovereignty in Europe . 
We learn from Gregory of Tours that , among the successors of Clovis , it was the exclusive privilege of the royal family to have their hair long , and curled . 
The nobles , equal to kings in power , would not show any inferiority in this respect , and wore not only their hair , but their beards , of an enormous length . 
Even the serfs had set all regulation at defiance , and allowed their locks and beards to grow . 
At the time of the invasion of England by William the Conqueror , the Normans wore their hair very short . 
Harold , in his progress towards Hastings , sent forward spies to view the strength and number of the enemy . 
They reported , amongst other things , on their return , that the host did almost seem to be priests , because they had all their face and both their lips shaven . 
The fashion among the English at the time was to wear the hair long upon the head and the upper lip , but to shave the chin . 
This fashion was exceedingly displeasing to the clergy , and prevailed to a considerable extent in France and Germany . 
William of Malmesbury relates , that the famous St . 
Wulstan , Bishop of Worcester , was peculiarly indignant whenever he saw a man with long hair . 
He declaimed against the practice as one highly immoral , criminal , and beastly . 
Henry I and his nobles wore their hair in long ringlets down their backs and shoulders , and became a scandalum magnatum in the eyes of the godly . 
One Serlo , the King's chaplain , was so grieved in spirit at the impiety of his master , that he preached a sermon from the well known text of St . 
Henry himself was observed to weep . 
Several of the principal courtiers consented to do the like , and , for a short time , long hair appeared to be going out of fashion . 
But his pertinacity was far from pleasing to the King , who had finally made up his mind to wear ringlets . 
Still the cause had other advocates , and every pulpit in the land resounded with anathemas against that disobedient and long haired generation . 
But all was of no avail . 
At last accident turned the tide of fashion . 
He started in affright , and actually found that he had a great quantity of hair in his mouth . 
Sorely stricken in conscience , and looking upon the dream as a warning from Heaven , he set about the work of reformation , and cut off his luxuriant tresses the same night . 
Men appeared almost as decent as St . 
Wulstan himself could have wished , the dream of a dandy having proved more efficacious than the entreaties of a saint . 
But , as Stowe informs us , scarcely was one year past , when all that thought themselves courtiers fell into the former vice , and contended with women in their long haires . 
It is said , that he was much troubled at this time by disagreeable visions . 
In France , the thunders of the Vatican with regard to long curly hair were hardly more respected than in England . 
however , was more obedient than his brother king , and cropped himself as closely as a monk , to the great sorrow of all the gallants of his court . 
From this cause , a coldness arose between them . 
During the absence of Richard Coeur de Lion , his English subjects not only cut their hair close , but shaved their faces . 
William Fitzosbert , or Long beard , the great demagogue of that day , reintroduced among the people who claimed to be of Saxon origin the fashion of long hair . 
He did this with the view of making them as unlike as possible to the citizens and the Normans . 
He wore his own beard hanging down to his waist , from whence the name by which he is best known to posterity . 
The Church never showed itself so great an enemy to the beard as to long hair on the head . 
It generally allowed fashion to take its own course , both with regard to the chin and the upper lip . 
This epigram , which was stuck on the church door of St . 
Peter Stangate , ran as follows Long beards heartlesse , Painted hoods witlesse , Gray coats gracelesse , Make England thriftlesse . 
When the Emperor Charles V. ascended the throne of Spain , he had no beard . 
It was not to be expected that the obsequious parasites who always surround a monarch , could presume to look more virile than their master . 
Sober people in general saw this revolution with sorrow and alarm , and thought that every manly virtue would be banished with the beard . 
It became at the time a common saying , Desde que no hay barba , no hay mas alma . 
We have no longer souls since we have lost our beards . 
In France , also , the beard fell into disrepute after the death of Henry IV , from the mere reason that his successor was too young to have one . 
Some of the more immediate friends of the great Bearnais , and his minister Sully among the rest , refused to part with their beards , notwithstanding the jeers of the new generation . 
A man's locks were the symbol of his creed , both in politics and religion . 
The more abundant the hair , the more scant the faith and the balder the head , the more sincere the piety . 
By this time , fashion had condemned the beard in every other country in Europe , and with a voice more potent than Popes or Emperors , had banished it from civilized society . 
But this only made the Russians cling more fondly to their ancient ornament , as a mark to distinguish them from foreigners , whom they hated . 
Peter , however resolved that they should be shaven . 
The priests and the serfs were put on a lower footing , and allowed to retain theirs upon payment of a copeck every time they passed the gate of a city . 
Great discontent existed in consequence , but the dreadful fate of the Strelitzes was too recent to be forgotten , and thousands who had the will had not the courage to revolt . 
For many years , a very considerable revenue was collected from this source . 
The collectors gave in receipt for its payment a small copper coin , struck expressly for the purpose , and called the borodovaia , or the bearded . 
On the reverse , it bore the date of the year . 
Every man who chose to wear a beard was obliged to produce this receipt on his entry into a town . 
Those who were refractory , and refused to pay the tax , were thrown into prison . 
Since that day , the rulers of modern Europe have endeavoured to persuade , rather than to force , in all matters pertaining to fashion . 
Folly has taken a new start , and cultivates the moustachio . 
Even upon this point governments will not let men alone . 
Religion as yet has not meddled with it but perhaps it will and politics already influence it considerably . 
The last folly of this kind is still more recent . 
The King of Bavaria , a rhymester of some celebrity , has taken a good many poetical licences in his time . 
His licence in this matter appears neither poetical nor reasonable . 
It is to be hoped that he will not take it into his royal head to make his subjects shave theirs nothing but that is wanting to complete their degradation . 
DUELS AND ORDEALS There was an ancient sage philosopher , Who swore the world , as he could prove , Was mad of fighting . 
From its decision there was no appeal . 
God was supposed to nerve the arm of the combatant whose cause was just , and to grant him the victory over his opponent . 
As Montesquieu well remarks , Esprit des Loix , liv . 
this belief was not unnatural among a people just emerging from barbarism . 
He , therefore , who showed himself most valiant in the encounter , was absolved by public opinion from any crime with which he might be charged . 
With this view , governments commenced by restricting within the narrowest possible limits the cases in which it was lawful to prove or deny guilt by the single combat . 
By the law of Gondebaldus , King of the Burgundians , passed in the year , the proof by combat was allowed in all legal proceedings , in lieu of swearing . 
None were exempt from these trials , but women , the sick and the maimed , and persons under fifteen or above sixty years of age . 
Ecclesiastics were allowed to produce champions in their stead . 
This practice , in the course of time , extended to all trials of civil and criminal cases , which had to be decided by battle . 
The clergy , whose dominion was an intellectual one , never approved of a system of jurisprudence which tended so much to bring all things under the rule of the strongest arm . 
It will be seen hereafter that this clause only encouraged the practice which it was intended to prevent . 
But it was the blasphemous error of these early ages to expect that the Almighty , whenever he was called upon , would work a miracle in favour of a person unjustly accused . 
The priesthood , in condemning the duel , did not condemn the principle on which it was founded . 
They still encouraged the popular belief of Divine interference in all the disputes or differences that might arise among nations or individuals . 
It was the very same principle that regulated the ordeals , which , with all their influence , they supported against the duel . 
By the former , the power of deciding the guilt or innocence was vested wholly in their hands , while , by the latter , they enjoyed no power or privilege at all . 
It is not to be wondered at , that for this reason , if for no other , they should have endeavoured to settle all differences by the peaceful mode . 
The germs of knowledge and civilization lay within the bounds of their order for they were the representatives of the intellectual , as the nobility were of the physical power of man . 
He was also obliged to find twelve persons , of acknowledged probity , who should take oath at the same time , that they believed him innocent . 
This mode of trial led to very great abuses , especially in cases of disputed inheritance , where the hardest swearer was certain of the victory . 
This abuse was one of the principal causes which led to the preference given to the trial by battle . 
The priests previously prepared two sticks exactly like one another , upon one of which was carved a figure of the cross . 
They were both wrapped up with great care and many ceremonies , in a quantity of fine wool , and laid upon the altar , or on the relics of the saints . 
A priest then approached the altar , and took up one of the sticks , and the assistants unswathed it reverently . 
If it was marked with the cross , the accused person was innocent if unmarked , he was guilty . 
It would be unjust to assert , that the judgments thus delivered were , in all cases , erroneous and it would be absurd to believe that they were left altogether to chance . 
By the fire ordeal the power of deciding was just as unequivocally left in their hands . 
One mode of ordeal was to place red hot ploughshares on the ground at certain distances , and then , blindfolding the accused person , make him walk barefooted over them . 
If he stepped regularly in the vacant spaces , avoiding the fire , he was adjudged innocent if he burned himself , he was declared guilty . 
As none but the clergy interfered with the arrangement of the ploughshares , they could always calculate beforehand the result of the ordeal . 
To find a person guilty , they had only to place them at irregular distances , and the accused was sure to tread upon one of them . 
This ordeal was called the Judicium Dei , and sometimes the Vulgaris Purgatio , and might also be tried by several other methods . 
One was to hold in the hand , unhurt , a piece of red hot iron , of the weight of one , two , or three pounds . 
Another mode was to plunge the naked arm into a caldron of boiling water . 
The priests then enveloped it in several folds of linen and flannel , and kept the patient confined within the church , and under their exclusive care , for three days . 
If , at the end of that time , the arm appeared without a scar , the innocence of the accused person was firmly established . 
Very similar to this is the fire ordeal of the modern Hindoos , . 
which is thus described in Forbes's Oriental Memoirs , vol . 
In the English districts the covering was always sealed with the Company's arms , and the prisoner placed under an European guard . 
During this part of the ceremony , the attendant Brahmins supplicate the Deity . 
On receiving their benediction , the accused plunges his hand into the boiling fluid , and takes out the coin . 
The arm is afterwards again Sealed up until the time appointed for a re examination . 
The seal is then broken if no blemish appears , the prisoner is declared innocent if the contrary , he suffers the punishment due to his crime . 
On this trial the accused thus addresses the element before plunging his hand into the boiling oil Thou , O fire ! pervadest all things . 
As regards the water ordeal , the same trouble was not taken . 
It was a trial only for the poor and humble , and , whether they sank or swam , was thought of very little consequence . 
In either case society was rid of them . 
But of all the ordeals , that which the clergy reserved for themselves was the one least likely to cause any member of their corps to be declared guilty . 
The most culpable monster in existence came off clear when tried by this method . 
It was called the Corsned , and was thus performed . 
There is no instance upon record of a priest having been choked in this manner . 
An ordeal very like this is still practised in India . 
Consecrated rice is the article chosen , instead of bread and cheese . 
Instances are not rare in which , through the force of imagination , guilty persons are not able to swallow a single grain . 
The same thing , no doubt , would have happened with the bread and cheese of the Roman church , if it had been applied to any others but ecclesiastics . 
The latter had too much wisdom to be caught in a trap of their own setting . 
When , under Pope Gregory VII , it was debated whether the Gregorian chant should be introduced into Castile , instead of the Musarabic , given by St . 
Isidore , of Seville , to the churches of that kingdom , very much ill feeling was excited . 
The churches refused to receive the novelty , and it was proposed that the affair should be decided by a battle between two champions , one chosen from each side . 
The clergy would not consent to a mode of settlement which they considered impious , but had no objection to try the merits of each chant by the fire ordeal . 
Every one present thought that the saints had decided in favour of Pope Gregory . 
After a slight interval , the fire was extinguished but , wonderful to relate ! the other book of St . 
Isidore was found covered with ashes , but not injured in the slightest degree . 
The flames had not even warmed it . 
In fact , the nobility , from a very early period , began to look with jealous eyes upon them . 
To these causes may be added another , which was , perhaps , more potent than either , in raising the credit of the judicial combat at the expense of the ordeal . 
In the mean time , the Crusades had brought the institution of chivalry to the full height of perfection . 
The chivalric spirit soon achieved the downfall of the ordeal system , and established the judicial combat on a basis too firm to be shaken . 
Among all the errors bequeathed to us by a barbarous age , it has proved the most pertinacious . 
Esprit des Loix , livre xxviii . 
No greater exemplification of it could be given , than the wise and religious rules of the absurd and blasphemous trial by battle . 
In the ages that intervened between the Crusades and the new era that was opened out by the invention of gunpowder and printing , a more rational system of legislation took root . 
The inhabitants of cities , engaged in the pursuits of trade and industry , were content to acquiesce in the decisions of their judges and magistrates whenever any differences arose among them . 
Unlike the class above them , their habits and manners did not lead them to seek the battle field on every slight occasion . 
Even the martial knights and nobles , quarrelsome as they were , began to see that the trial by battle would lose its dignity and splendour if too frequently resorted to . 
Governments also shared this opinion , and on several occasions restricted the cases in which it was legal to proceed to this extremity . 
In France , before the time of Louis IX , duels were permitted only in cases of Lese Majesty , Rape , Incendiarism , Assassination , and Burglary . 
Louis IX , by taking off all restriction , made them legal in civil eases . 
Knighthood was allowed to be the best judge of its own honour , and might defend or avenge it as often as occasion arose . 
Among the earliest duels upon record , is a very singular one that took place in the reign of Louis II . 
Ingelgerius , Count of Gastinois , was one morning discovered by his Countess dead in bed at her side . 
Memoires de Brantome touchant les Duels . 
He tenderly loved his godmother , and offered to do battle in her cause against any and every opponent . 
When the lists were prepared , the Countess duly acknowledged her champion , and the combatants commenced the onset . 
Gontran rode so fiercely at his antagonist , and hit him on the shield with such impetuosity , that he lost his own balance and rolled to the ground . 
The innocence of the Countess was then proclaimed with great rejoicings and she kissed her godson , and wept over his neck with joy , in the presence of all the assembly . 
The Earl of Essex accepted the challenge , and the lists were prepared near Reading . 
An immense concourse of persons assembled to witness the battle . 
Essex at first fought stoutly , but , losing his temper and self command , he gave an advantage to his opponent , which soon decided the struggle . 
He was unhorsed , and so severely wounded , that all present thought he was dead . 
At the solicitation of his relatives , the monks of the Abbey of Reading were allowed to remove the body for interment , and Montfort was declared the victor . 
Essex , however , was not dead , but stunned only , and , under the care of the monks , recovered in a few weeks from his bodily injuries . 
The wounds of his mind were not so easily healed . 
Though a loyal and brave subject , the whole realm believed him a traitor and a coward because he had been vanquished . 
Du Chastelet relates a singular duel that was proposed in Spain . 
Histoire de Messire Bertrand du Guesclin , livre i . 
The same author relates , that under Otho I a question arose among jurisconsults , viz . 
whether grandchildren , who had lost their father , should share equally with their uncles in the property of their grandfather , at the death of the latter . 
The difficulty of this question was found so insurmountable , that none of the lawyers of that day could resolve it . 
It was at last decreed , that it should be decided by single combat . 
Two champions were accordingly chosen one for , and the other against , the claims of the little ones . 
Upon pretexts , just as frivolous as these , duels continued to be fought in most of the countries of Europe during the whole of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries . 
The Duke of Lancaster , to whom Troussel applied for permission to fight the great Frenchman , forbade the battle , as not warranted by the circumstances . 
Troussel nevertheless burned with a fierce desire to cross his weapon with Du Guesclin , and sought every occasion to pick a quarrel with him . 
Having so good a will for it , of course he found a way . 
A relative of his had been taken prisoner by the Constable , in whose hands he remained till he was able to pay his ransom . 
The Marshal made all necessary arrangements , upon condition that he who was beaten should pay a hundred florins of gold to feast the nobles and gentlemen who were witnesses of the encounter . 
Upon these representations , Troussel , ashamed of himself , sent notice to Du Guesclin that he was willing to postpone the duel until such time as he should be perfectly recovered . 
Troussel carried this haughty message to the Duke of Lancaster , who immediately gave permission for the battle . 
On the day appointed , the two combatants appeared in the lists , in the presence of several thousand spectators . 
Four English and as many French squires fought for some time with pointless lances , when the French , gaining the advantage , the sports were declared at an end . 
In the time of Charles VI , about the beginning of the fifteenth century , a famous duel was ordered by the Parliament of Paris . 
The Sieur de Carrouges being absent in the Holy Land , his lady was violated by the Sieur Legris . 
The lady's asseverations of innocence were held to be no evidence by the Parliament , and the duel was commanded with all the ceremonies . 
On the day appointed , says Brantome , Memoires de Brantome touchant les Duels . 
After a short struggle , the Sieur de Carrouges overthrew his enemy , and made him confess both the rape and the slander . 
This memorable combat was fought in the year . 
La Chataigneraie betrayed the base secret to the Dauphin , the Dauphin to the King , the King to his courtiers , and the courtiers to all their acquaintance . 
A case like this could not be met or rebutted by any legal proof , and the royal council ordered that it should be decided by single combat . 
Francis replied , that he lied qu'il en avait menti par la gorge , and that he was ready to meet him in single combat whenever and wherever he pleased . 
and forbade them both , under pain of his high displeasure , to proceed any further in the matter . 
But Francis died in the following year , and the Dauphin , now Henry II , who was himself compromised , resolved that the combat should take place . 
The lists were prepared in the court yard of the chateau of St . 
Germain en Laye , and the th of July was appointed for the encounter . 
The cartels of the combatants , which are preserved in the Memoires de Castelnau , were as follow Cartel of Francois de Vivonne , Lord of La Chataigneraie . 
I , therefore , entreat you , Sire , most humbly , that you be pleased to grant us a fair field , that we may fight this battle to the death . 
The preparations were conducted on a scale of the greatest magnificence , the King having intimated his intention of being present . 
De Jarnac was not so confident , though perhaps more desperate . 
They then attacked each other , sword in hand . 
La Chataigneraie was a strong , robust man , and over confident De Jarnac was nimble , supple , and prepared for the worst . 
In this crouching posture he aimed two blows at the left thigh of La Chataigneraie , who had left it uncovered , that the motion of his leg might not be impeded . 
Each blow was successful , and , amid the astonishment of all the spectators , and to the great regret of the King , La Chataigneraie rolled over upon the sand . 
He seized his dagger , and made a last effort to strike De Jarnac but he was unable to support himself , and fell powerless into the arms of the assistants . 
He tore off the bandages which the surgeons applied , and expired two days afterwards . 
Ever since that time , any sly and unforeseen attack has been called by the French a coup de Jarnac . 
Some writers have asserted , and among others , Mezeraie , that he issued a royal edict forbidding them . 
This has been doubted by others , and , as there appears no registry of the edict in any of the courts , it seems most probable that it was never issued . 
The disputants were Fendille and D'Aguerre , two gentlemen of the household , who , quarrelling in the King's chamber , had proceeded from words to blows . 
The council , being informed of the matter , decreed that it could only be decided in the lists . 
Marshal de la Marque , with the King's permission , appointed the city of Sedan as the place of combat . 
D'Aguerre appeared in the field attended by Francois de Vendome , Count de Chartres , while Fendille was accompanied by the Duke de Nevers . 
, who brought Dire swords into this peaceful world . 
On the very first encounter he was thrown from his horse , and , confessing on the ground all that his victor required of him , slunk away ignominiously from the arena . 
One is tempted to look upon the death of Henry II as a judgment upon him for his perjury in the matter of duelling . 
In a grand tournament instituted on the occasion of the marriage of his daughter , he broke several lances in encounters with some of the bravest knights of the time . 
Ambitious of still further renown , he would not rest satisfied until he had also engaged the young Count de Montgomeri . 
He received a wound in the eye from the lance of this antagonist , and died from its effects shortly afterwards , in the forty first year of his age . 
In the succeeding reigns of Francis II , Charles IX , and Henry III , the practice of duelling increased to an alarming extent . 
The Parliament of Paris endeavoured , as far as in its power lay , to discourage the practice . 
When Henry III was assassinated at St . 
Another youth , of a fiery temper and tried courage , named Marolles , took him at his word , and the day and place of the combat were forthwith appointed . 
Truth to say , he did so at the very first onset , and the unhappy L'isle Marivaut expired without a groan . 
He thought it tended to foster a warlike spirit among his people . 
It is no wonder that when such were known to be the King's disposition , his edicts attracted but small attention . 
Henry , being so warmly pressed by his friend and minister , called together an extraordinary council in the gallery of the palace of Fontainebleau , to take the matter into consideration . 
Sully complacently remarks , that none of the counsllors gave the King any great reason to felicitate them on their erudition . 
In fact , they all remained silent . 
I pray you , and indeed I command , that you tell us what you think and what you know . 
Le Pere Matthias , tome ii . 
But so strong a hold had the education and prejudice of his age upon the mind of the King , that though his reason condemned , his sympathies approved the duel . 
Notwithstanding this threatened severity , the number of duels did not diminish , and the wise Sully had still to lament the prevalence of an evil which menaced society with utter disorganization . 
The Abbe Millot says of this period , that the duel madness made the most terrible ravages . 
Men had actually a frenzy for combatting . 
Caprice and vanity , as well as the excitement of passion , imposed the necessity of fighting . 
Friends were obliged to enter into the quarrels of their friends , or be themselves called out for their refusal , and revenge became hereditary in many families . 
It was reckoned that in twenty years eight thousand letters of pardon had been issued to persons who had killed others in single combat . 
Elemens de l'Histoire de France , vol . 
Other writers confirm this statement . 
It was not at all necessary to quarrel with this assassin to be forced to fight a duel with him . 
M. de Valencay , who was afterwards elevated to the rank of a cardinal , ranked very high in the estimation of De Bouteville and his gang . 
This quarrel was only appeased on the promise of De Bouteville that , in his next encounter , he would not fail to avail himself of his services . 
For that purpose he went out the same day , and picked a quarrel with the Marquis des Portes . 
The subject indeed was painfully forced upon him by his enemies . 
An opportunity was soon found . 
Themines , accosting the Marquis de Richelieu , complained , in an insulting tone , that the Bishop of Lucon had broken his faith . 
The Marquis resented both the manner and matter of his speech , and readily accepted a challenge . 
They met in the Rue d'Angouleme , and the unfortunate Richelieu was stabbed to the heart , and instantly expired . 
From that moment the Bishop became the steady foe of the practice of duelling . 
Reason and the impulse of brotherly love alike combined to make him detest it , and when his power in France was firmly established , he set vigorously about repressing it . 
In his Testament Politique , he has collected his thoughts upon the subject , in the chapter entitled Des moyens d'arreter les Duels . 
In spite of the edicts that he published , the members of the nobility persisted in fighting upon the most trivial and absurd pretences . 
At last Richelieu made a terrible example . 
The infamous De Bouteville challenged and fought the Marquis de Beuoron and , although the duel itself was not fatal to either , its consequences were fatal to both . 
High as they were , Richelieu resolved that the law should reach them , and they were both tried , found guilty , and beheaded . 
Thus did society get rid of one of the most bloodthirsty scoundrels that ever polluted it . 
In two noblemen fought a duel , in which they were both killed . 
The officers of justice had notice of the breach of the law , and arrived at the scene of combat before the friends of the parties had time to remove the bodies . 
Mercure de France , vol . 
This severity sobered the frenzy of the nation for a time but it was soon forgotten . 
He had , with all his acuteness , miscalculated the spirit of duelling . 
It was not death that a duellist feared it was shame , and the contempt of his fellows . 
Richelieu never thought of this . 
Sully says , that in his time the Germans were also much addicted to duelling . 
There were three places where it was legal to fight Witzburg , in Franconia , and Uspach and Halle , in Swabia . 
Thither , of course , vast numbers repaired , and murdered each other under sanction of the law . 
At an earlier period , in Germany , it was held highly disgraceful to refuse to fight . 
He who fell in a duel was buried with great pomp and splendour . 
In the year , just after Louis XIV had attained his majority , a desperate duel was fought between the Dukes de Beaufort and De Nemours , each attended by four gentlemen . 
Although brothers in law , they had long been enemies , and their constant dissensions had introduced much disorganization among the troops which they severally commanded . 
Each had long sought an opportunity for combat , which at last arose on a misunderstanding relative to the places they were to occupy at the council board . 
They fought with pistols , and , at the first discharge , the Duke de Nemours was shot through the body , and almost instantly expired . 
This combat , being with swords , lasted longer than the first , and was more exciting to the six remaining gentlemen who stayed to witness it . 
The result was fatal to Hericourt , who fell pierced to the heart by the sword of De Villars . 
Anything more savage than this can hardly be imagined . 
Voltaire says such duels were frequent , and the compiler of the Dictionnaire d'Anecdotes informs us , that the number of seconds was not fixed . 
As many as ten , or twelve , or twenty , were not unfrequent , and they often fought together after their principals were disabled . 
The Count de Bussy Rabutin relates an instance of this in his Memoirs . 
a drunkard ? Bussy replied , that he really did not know , for he saw the Count very seldom . 
Oh ! he is your uncle ! replied Bruc and , as I cannot have satisfaction from him , because he lives so far off in the country , I apply to you . 
Horsewhip him , then , for his falsehood , returned De Bussy . 
They agreed , however , to fight on a future occasion , and with all regular forms of the duello . 
When such quarrels as these were looked upon as mere matters of course , the state of society must have been indeed awful . 
Louis XIV very early saw the evil , and as early determined to remedy it . 
By this celebrated ordinance a supreme court of honour was established , composed of the Marshals of France . 
They were bound , on taking the office , to give to every one who brought a well founded complaint before them , such reparation as would satisfy the justice of the case . 
He who accepted a challenge , was subject to the same punishment . 
Any person who actually fought , was to be held guilty of murder , even though death did not ensue , and was to be punished accordingly . 
Persons in the higher ranks of life were to be beheaded , and those of the middle class hanged upon a gallows , and their bodies refused Christian burial . 
At the same time that Louis published this severe edict , he exacted a promise from his principal nobility that they would never engage in a duel on any pretence whatever . 
He never swerved from his resolution to pursue all duellists with the utmost rigour , and many were executed in various parts of the country . 
A slight abatement of the evil was the consequence , and in the course of a few years one duel was not fought where twelve had been fought previously . 
A medal was struck to commemorate the circumstance , by the express command of the King . 
A singular law formerly existed in Malta with regard to duelling . 
By this law it was permitted , but only upon condition that the parties should fight in one particular street . 
If they presumed to settle their quarrel elsewhere , they were held guilty of murder , and punished accordingly . 
The priests alone were the great peacemakers . 
In England the private duel was also practised to a scandalous extent , towards the end of the sixteenth and beginning of the seventeenth centuries . 
The judicial combat now began to be more rare , but several instances of it are mentioned in history . 
The plaintiff accepted the challenge , and the Court having no power to stay the proceedings , agreed to the champions who were to fight in lieu of the principals . 
The Queen commanded the parties to compromise but it being represented to Her Majesty that they were justified by law in the course they were pursuing , she allowed them to proceed . 
The champions were ready for the encounter , and the plaintiff and defendant were publicly called to come forward and acknowledge them . 
The defendant answered to his name , and recognised his champion with the due formalities , but the plaintiff did not appear . 
The Queen appears to have disapproved personally of this mode of settling a disputed claim , but her judges and legal advisers made no attempt to alter the barbarous law . 
The practice of private duelling excited more indignation , from its being of every day occurrence . 
He began by considering the nature and greatness of the mischief of duelling . 
It troubleth peace it disfurnisheth war it bringeth calamity upon private men , peril upon the state , and contempt upon the law . 
Hereunto may be added , that men have almost lost the true notion and understanding of fortitude and valour . 
Nay , it is weakness and disesteem of a man's self to put a man's life upon such liedger performances . 
A man's life is not to be trifled with it is to be offered up and sacrificed to honourable services , public merits , good causes , and noble adventures . 
It is in expense of blood as it is in expense of money . 
It is no liberality to make a profusion of money upon every vain occasion , neither is it fortitude to make effusion of blood , except the cause of it be worth . 
See Life and Character of Lord Bacon , by Thomas Martin , Barrister at law . 
The most remarkable event connected with duelling in this reign was that between Lord Sanquir , a Scotch nobleman , and one Turner , a fencing master . 
In a trial of skill between them , his lordship's eye was accidentally thrust out by the point of Turner's sword . 
Turner expressed great regret at the circumstance , and Lord Sanquir bore his loss with as much philosophy as he was master of , and forgave his antagonist . 
Three years afterwards , Lord Sanquir was at Paris , where he was a constant visitor at the court of Henry IV . 
One day , in the course of conversation , the affable monarch inquired how he had lost his eye . 
Sanquir , who prided himself on being the most expert swordsman of the age , blushed as he replied that it was inflicted by the sword of a fencing master . 
He therefore hired two bravos , who set upon the fencing master , and murdered him in his own house at Whitefriars . 
The assassins were taken and executed , and a reward of one thousand pounds offered for the apprehension of their employer . 
The most powerful intercessions were employed in his favour , but James , to his credit , was deaf to them all . 
See History of the House and Clan of Mackay . 
The management of the affair was delegated to the Marischal Court of Westminster , and the Earl of Lindsay was created Lord Constable of England for the purpose . 
Shortly before the day appointed , Ramsay confessed in substance all that Lord Reay had laid to his charge , upon which Charles I put a stop to the proceedings . 
But in England , about this period , sterner disputes arose among men than those mere individual matters which generate duels . 
The men of the Commonwealth encouraged no practice of the kind , and the subdued aristocracy carried their habits and prejudices elsewhere , and fought their duels at foreign courts . 
Charles II , on his restoration , also issued a proclamation upon the subject . 
In his reign an infamous duel was fought infamous , not only from its own circumstances , but from the lenity that was shown to the principal offenders . 
The worthless Duke of Buckingham , having debauched the Countess of Shrewsbury , was challenged by her husband to mortal combat , in January . 
Charles II endeavoured to prevent the duel , not from any regard to public morality , but from fear for the life of his favourite . 
He gave commands to the Duke of Albemarle to confine Buckingham to his house , or take some other measures to prevent him flora fighting . 
Albemarle neglected the order , thinking that the King himself might prevent the combat by some surer means . 
The meeting took place at Barn Elms , the injured Shrewsbury being attended by Sir John Talbot , his relative , and Lord Bernard Howard , son of the Earl of Arundel . 
Buckingham was accompanied by two of his dependants , Captain Holmes and Sir John Jenkins . 
According to the barbarous custom of the age , not only the principals , but the seconds , engaged each other . 
Jenkins was pierced to the heart , and left dead upon the field , and Sir John Talbot severely wounded in both arms . 
Great influence was exerted to save the guilty parties from punishment , and the master , as base as the favourite , made little difficulty in granting a free pardon to all concerned . 
In a royal proclamation issued shortly afterwards , Charles II formally pardoned the murderers , but declared his intention never to extend , in future , any mercy to such offenders . 
It would be hard after this to say who was the most infamous , the King , the favourite , or the courtezan . 
In the reign of Queen Anne , repeated complaints were made of the prevalence of duelling . 
Addison , Swift , Steele , and other writers , employed their powerful pens in reprobation of it . 
, and and Tatler , Nos . 
, , , , , and and Guardian , No. . 
His comedy of The Conscious Lovers contains an admirable exposure of the abuse of the word honour , which led men into an error so lamentable . 
Swift , writing upon the subject , remarked that he could see no harm in rogues and fools shooting each other . 
A coward has often fought a coward has often conquered , but a coward never forgave . 
It was read a first time that day , and ordered for a second reading in the ensuing week . 
About the same time the attention of the Upper House of Parliament was also drawn to the subject in the most painful manner . 
The first affair , which happily terminated without a meeting , was between the Duke of Marlborough and the Earl Pawlet . 
The latter , and fatal encounter , was between the Duke of Hamilton and Lord Mohun . 
Every one felt that the remark was aimed at the Duke of Marlborough , but he remained silent , though evidently suffering in mind . 
Earl Pawlet did not affect to misunderstand the hint , but asked him in plain terms whether he brought a challenge from the Duke . 
would accompany the Duke of Marlborough . 
He then took his leave , and Earl Pawlet returned home and told his lady that he was going out to fight a duel with the Duke of Marlborough . 
He also caused Earl Pawlet's house to be guarded by two sentinels and having taken these precautions , informed the Queen of the whole affair . 
Her Majesty sent at once for the Duke , expressed her abhorrence of the custom of duelling , and required his word of honour that he would proceed no further . 
The Duke pledged his word accordingly , and the affair terminated . 
The lamentable duel between the Duke of Hamilton and Lord Mohun took place in November , and sprang from the following circumstances . 
A lawsuit had been pending for eleven years between these two noblemen , and they looked upon each other in consequence with a certain degree of coldness . 
The Duke accepted the challenge , and the day after the morrow , which was Sunday , the th of November , at seven in the morning , was appointed for the meeting . 
At that hour they assembled in Hyde Park , the Duke being attended by his relative , Colonel Hamilton , and the Lord Mohun by General Macartney . 
They jumped over a ditch into a place called the Nursery , and prepared for the combat . 
The Duke of Hamilton , turning to General Macartney , said , Sir , you are the cause of this , let the event be what it will . 
Lord Mohun did not wish that the seconds should engage , but the Duke insisted that Macartney should have a share in the dance . 
All being ready , the two principals took up their positions , and fought with swords so desperately that , after a short time , they both fell down , mortally wounded . 
The Lord Mohun expired upon the spot , and the Duke of Hamilton in the arms of his servants as they were carrying him to his coach . 
This unhappy termination caused the greatest excitement , not only in the metropolis , but all over the country . 
, and asserted openly , that the quarrel was concocted between him and General Macartney to rob the country of the services of the Duke of Hamilton by murdering him . 
It was also asserted , that the wound of which the Duke died was not inflicted by Lord Mohun , but by Macartney and every means was used to propagate this belief . 
Upon this deposition a royal proclamation was immediately issued , offering a reward of pounds for the apprehension of Macartney , to which the Duchess of Hamilton afterwards added a reward of pounds . 
Upon the further examination of Colonel Hamilton , it was found that reliance could not be placed on all his statements , and that he contradicted himself in several important particulars . 
He was arraigned at the Old Bailey for the murder of Lord Mohun , the whole political circles of London being in a fever of excitement for the result . 
All the Tory party prayed for his acquittal , and a Tory mob surrounded the doors and all the avenues leading to the court of justice for many hours before the trial began . 
The examination of witnesses lasted seven hours . 
The criminal still persisted in accusing General Macartney of the murder of the Duke of Hamilton , but , in other respects , say the newspapers of the day , prevaricated foully . 
He was found guilty of manslaughter . 
Post Boy , December l th , . 
General Macartney surrendered about the same time , and was tried for murder in the Court of King's Bench . 
He was , however , found guilty of manslaughter only . 
A bill to that effect was brought forward , but thrown out on the second reading , to the very great regret of all the sensible portion of the community . 
A famous duel was fought in between Lord Byron and Mr. Chaworth . 
The dispute arose at a club dinner , and was relative to which of the two had the largest quantity of game on his estates . 
Infuriated by wine and passion , they retired instantly into an adjoining room , and fought with swords across a table , by the feeble glimmer of a tallow candle . 
Mr. Chaworth , who was the more expert swordsman of the two , received a mortal wound , and shortly afterwards expired . 
This was a very bad example for the country , and duelling of course fell into no disrepute after such a verdict . 
In France , more severity was exercised . 
The servant of Duchelas officiated as second , and was arraigned with his master for the murder of the captain . 
They were both found guilty . 
Duchelas was broken alive on the wheel , and the servant condemned to the galleys for life . 
A barbarous and fiercely contested duel was fought in November , between two foreign adventurers , at Bath , named Count Rice and the Vicomte du Barri . 
Du Barri said he was perfectly well aware of their meaning , and that Rice might interpret them just as he pleased . 
A challenge was immediately given and accepted . 
They then prepared for the encounter , each being armed with two pistols and a sword . 
The ground having been marked out by the seconds , Du Barri fired first , and wounded his opponent in the thigh . 
Count Rice then levelled his pistol , and shot Du Barri mortally in the breast . 
So angry were the combatants , that they refused to desist both stepped back a few paces , and then rushing forward , discharged their second pistols at each other . 
Neither shot took effect , and both throwing away their pistols , prepared to finish the sanguinary struggle by the sword . 
His opponent had but just time to answer , that he granted it , when the unfortunate Du Barri turned upon the grass , and expired with a heavy groan . 
The survivor of this savage conflict was then removed to his lodgings , where he lay for some weeks in a dangerous state . 
The coroner's jury , in the mean while , sat upon the body of Du Barri , and disgraced themselves by returning a verdict of manslaughter only . 
Count Rice , upon his recovery , was indicted for the murder notwithstanding this verdict . 
These considerations appear to have weighed with the jury , and this fierce duellist was again found guilty of manslaughter only , and escaped with a merely nominal punishment . 
A duel , less remarkable from its circumstances , but more so from the rank of the parties , took place in . 
The combatants on this occasion were the Duke of York and Colonel Lenox , the nephew and heir of the Duke of Richmond . 
Colonel Lenox went up to the Duke on parade , and asked him publicly whether he had made such an assertion . 
The Duke of York , without answering his question , coldly ordered him to his post . 
Colonel Lenox desired nothing better than satisfaction that is to say , to run the chance of shooting the Duke through the body , or being himself shot . 
He accordingly challenged his Royal Highness , and they met on Wimbledon Common . 
Colonel Lenox fired first , and the ball whizzed past the head of his opponent , so near to it as to graze his projecting curl . 
The Duke refused to return the fire , and the seconds interfering , the affair terminated . 
Colonel Lenox was very shortly afterwards engaged in another duel arising out of this . 
They met on the Uxbridge Road , but no damage was done to either party . 
The Irish were for a long time renowned for their love of duelling . 
The slightest offence which it is possible to imagine that one man could offer to another , was sufficient to provoke a challenge . 
Hot words ensued on this slight occasion , and the result was a challenge from Campbell to Boyd . 
They retired into the mess room shortly afterwards , and each stationed himself at a corner , the distance obliquely being but seven paces . 
Here , without friends or seconds being present , they fired at each other , and Captain Boyd fell mortally wounded between the fourth and fifth ribs . 
A surgeon who came in shortly , found him sitting in a chair , vomiting and suffering great agony . 
He was led into another room , Major Campbell following , in great distress and perturbation of mind . 
He shortly afterwards expired , and Major Campbell made his escape from Ireland , and lived for some months with his family under an assumed name , in the neighbourhood of Chelsea . 
He was , however , apprehended , and brought to trial at Armagh , in August . 
The jury returned a verdict of wilful murder against him , but recommended him to mercy on the ground that the duel had been a fair one . 
He was condemned to die on the Monday following , but was afterwards respited for a few days longer . 
In the mean time the greatest exertions were made in his behalf . 
His unfortunate wife went upon her knees before the Prince of Wales , to move him to use his influence with the King , in favour of her unhappy husband . 
The law was therefore allowed to take its course , and the victim of a false spirit of honour died the death of a felon . 
The most inveterate duellists of the present day are the students in the Universities of Germany . 
They fight on the most frivolous pretences , and settle with swords and pistols the schoolboy disputes which in other countries are arranged by the more harmless medium of the fisticuffs . 
It was at one time the custom among these savage youths to prefer the sword combat , for the facility it gave them of cutting off the noses of their opponents . 
But it would be wearisome to enter into the minute detail of all the duels of modern times . 
put myself under the necessity of taking . 
No other could have blamed him for refusing to fight a duel . 
The list of duels that have sprung from the most degrading causes might be stretched out to an almost indefinite extent . 
Sterne's father fought a duel about a goose and the great Raleigh about a tavern bill . 
The young man immediately begged his pardon . 
The dog of Montgomery attacked a dog belonging to Macnamara , and each master interfering in behalf of his own animal , high words ensued . 
The result was the giving and accepting a challenge to mortal combat . 
The parties met on the following day , when Montgomery was shot dead , and his antagonist severely wounded . 
In the duel between Best and Lord Camelford , two pistols were used which were considered to be the best in England . 
One of them was thought slightly superior to the other , and it was agreed that the belligerents should toss up a piece of money to decide the choice of weapons . 
Best gained it , and , at the first discharge , Lord Camelford fell , mortally wounded . 
As he had sowed , so did he reap and the violent man met an appropriate death . 
It now only remains to notice the means that have been taken to stay the prevalence of this madness of false honour in the various countries of the civilized world . 
The efforts of the governments of France and England have already been mentioned , and their want of success is but too well known . 
The same efforts have been attended with the same results elsewhere . 
This was the case in Prussia under the great Frederick , of whose aversion to duelling a popular anecdote is recorded . 
The latter received strict orders , when one of the belligerents fell , to shoot the other immediately . 
It is added , that the known determination of the King effectually put a stop to the practice . 
The Emperor Joseph II of Austria was as firm as Frederick , although the measures he adopted were not so singular . 
Captain W. is an old soldier , who will adjust every dispute with the sword and pistol , and who has received the challenge of the young Count with unbecoming warmth . 
I will suffer no duelling in my army . 
I despise the principles of those who attempt to justify the practice , and who would run each other through the body in cold blood . 
I consider such a man as no better than a Roman gladiator . 
Order a court martial to try the two officers . 
Investigate the subject of their dispute with that impartiality which I demand from every judge and he that is guilty , let him be a sacrifice to his fate and the laws . 
There are still men who know how to unite the character of a hero with that of a good subject and he only can be so who respects the laws . 
Vide the Letters of Joseph II to distinguished Princes and Statesmen , published for the first time in England in The Pamphleteer for . 
They were originally published in Germany a few years previously , and throw a great light upon the character of that monarch and the events of his reign . 
In the United States of America the code varies considerably . 
In Vermont the punishment is total disqualification for office , deprivation of the rights of citizenship , and a fine in fatal cases , the same punishment as that of murderers . 
He may be further imprisoned for a year , at the option of the magistrate . 
In Connecticut the punishment is total disqualification for office or employ , and a fine , varying from one hundred to a thousand dollars . 
The King of Naples issued an ordinance against duelling in , in which the punishment of death is decreed against all concerned in a fatal duel . 
Bearers of challenges may also be punished with fine and imprisonment . 
It might be imagined that enactments so severe all over the civilized world would finally eradicate a custom , the prevalence of which every wise and good man must deplore . 
Female influence , too , which is so powerful in leading men either to good or to evil , takes , in this case , the evil part . 
Public opinion , said the repentant orator , is practically the paramount law of the land . 
Every other law , both human and divine , ceases to be observed yea , withers and perishes in contact with it . 
The court established by Louis XIV might be taken as a model . 
To hang them as murderers would be of no avail for to such men death would have few terrors . 
Shame alone would bring them to reason . 
The world would then know his true character as long as he lived . 
This law , which should allow no commutation of the punishment , under any circumstances , would lend strength and authority to the court of honour . 
THE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS AND THE DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE . 
Tell us all about them , replied his mother , for I long to hear your adventures . 
Well , then , said John , as we were sailing over the Line , what do you think we saw ? I can't imagine , replied his mother . 
True as death ? said John and we saw still more wonderful things than that . 
Let us hear them , said his mother , shaking her head again and tell the truth , John , if you can . 
Well , inquired his mother , seeing that he paused in his story . 
Well , well , said his mother , lifting up her hands in admiration now , that's very possible , and I think the captain was a very sensible man . 
Every age and country has produced them . 
They have been found in high places , and have sat down among the learned of the earth . 
The reasons that thus lead mankind to believe the marvellously false , and to disbelieve the marvellously true , may be easily gathered . 
We all pay an involuntary homage to antiquity a blind homage , as Bacon calls it in his Novum Organum , which tends greatly to the obstruction of truth . 
To the great majority of mortal eyes , Time sanctifies everything that he does not destroy . 
The mere fact of anything being spared by the great foe makes it a favourite with us , who are sure to fall his victims . 
To call a prejudice time hallowed , is to open a way for it into hearts where it never before penetrated . 
Some peculiar custom may disgrace the people amongst whom it flourishes yet men of a little wisdom refuse to aid in its extirpation , merely because it is old . 
Thus it is with human belief , and thus it is we bring shame upon our own intellect . 
Upon a similar principle the monks of the inquisition believed that the devil appeared visibly among men , that St . 
Godwin , in his Lives of the Necromancers , gives the following version of this legend . 
Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay entertained the project of enclosing England with a wall , so as to render it inaccessible to any invader . 
They accordingly raised the devil , as the person best able to inform them how this was to be done . 
The devil advised them to make a brazen head , with all the internal structure and organs of a human head . 
The construction would cost them much time , and they must wait with patience till the faculty of speech descended upon it . 
Finally , however , it would become an oracle , and , if the question were propounded to it , would teach them the solution of their problem . 
The friars spent seven years in bringing the subject to perfection , and waited day after day in expectation that it would utter articulate sounds . 
The head uttered sounds , but such as the clown judged unworthy of notice . 
Time is ! it said . 
No notice was taken , and a long pause ensued . 
Time was ! a similar pause , and no notice . 
Time is passed ! The moment these words were uttered , a tremendous storm ensued , with thunder and lightning , and the head was shivered into a thousand pieces . 
Thus the experiment of Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay came to nothing . 
When Harvey first proved the circulation of the blood , every tongue was let loose against him . 
The thing was too obviously an imposition , and an attempt to deceive that public who believed that a king's touch had power to cure the scrofula . 
That a dead criminal's hand , rubbed against a wen , would cure it , was reasonable enough but that the blood flowed through the veins was beyond all probability . 
In our own day , a similar fate awaited the beneficent discovery of Dr . 
Many of the poorer people actually dreaded that their children would grow hairy and horned as cattle , if they suffered them to be vaccinated . 
The Jesuit , Father Labat , the shrewd and learned traveller in South America , relates an experiment which he made upon the credulity of some native Peruvians . 
Holding a powerful lens in his hand , and concentrating the rays of the sun upon the naked arm of an admiring savage , he soon made him roar with pain . 
All the tribe looked on , first with wonder , and then with indignation and wonder both combined . 
Very similar was the conduct of that inquiring Brahmin , which is related by Forbes in his Oriental Memoirs . 
All the knowledge that did not run counter to this belief , he sought after with avidity , and bade fair to become the wisest of his race . 
The English philosopher expected that his Hindoo friend would be enraptured at the vast field of knowledge thus suddenly opened out to him , but he was deceived . 
The Brahmin from that time became an altered man thoughtful , gloomy , reserved , and discontented . 
I am miserable , and must continue to be so , until I enter on another stage of existence . 
They were charged with sapping the foundations of religion , and of propping atheism by the aid of a pretended science . 
The very same principle which leads to the rejection of the true , leads to the encouragement of the false . 
Thus we may account for the success which has attended great impostors , at times when the truth , though not half so wondrous as their impositions , has been disregarded . 
The man who wishes to cheat the people , must needs found his operations upon some prejudice or belief that already exists . 
Thus the philosophic pretenders who told fortunes by the stars cured all diseases by one nostrum , and preserved from evil by charms and amulets , ran with the current of popular belief . 
POPULAR FOLLIES IN GREAT CITIES La faridondaine la faridondon , Vive la faridondaine ! BERANGER . 
The miseries of us poor earthdwellers gain no alleviation from the sympathy of those who merely hunt them out to be pathetic over them . 
The weeping philosopher too often impairs his eyesight by his woe , and becomes unable from his tears to see the remedies for the evils which he deplores . 
Not one utters this phrase without producing a laugh from all within hearing . 
This odd word took the fancy of the multitude in an extraordinary degree , and very soon acquired an almost boundless meaning . 
When vulgar wit wished to mark its incredulity and raise a laugh at the same time , there was no resource so sure as this popular piece of slang . 
Every alehouse resounded with Quoz every street corner was noisy with it , and every wall for miles around was chalked with it . 
What a shocking bad hat ! was the phrase that was next in vogue . 
No sooner had it become universal , than thousands of idle but sharp eyes were on the watch for the passenger whose hat showed any signs , however slight , of ancient service . 
Immediately the cry arose , and , like the what whoop of the Indians , was repeated by a hundred discordant throats . 
He was a wise man who , finding himself under these circumstances the observed of all observers , bore his honours meekly . 
He who showed symptoms of ill feeling at the imputations cast upon his hat , only brought upon himself redoubled notice . 
The mob soon perceive whether a man is irritable , and , if of their own class , they love to make sport of him . 
There had been a hotly contested election for the borough of Southwark , and one of the candidates was an eminent hatter . 
This gentleman , in canvassing the electors , adopted a somewhat professional mode of conciliating their good will , and of bribing them without letting them perceive that they were bribed . 
From Southwark the phrase spread over all London , and reigned , for a time , the supreme slang of the season . 
In the course of time the latter word alone became the favourite , and was uttered with a peculiar drawl upon the first syllable , and a sharp turn upon the last . 
This lasted for two or three months , and Walker ! walked off the stage , never more to be revived for the entertainment of that or any future generation . 
The next phrase was a most preposterous one . 
Who invented it , how it arose , or where it was first heard , are alike unknown . 
Nothing about it is certain , but that for months it was the slang par excellence of the Londoners , and afforded them a vast gratification . 
The sober part of the community were as much puzzled by this unaccountable saying as the vulgar were delighted with it . 
The wise thought it very foolish , but the many thought it very funny , and the idle amused themselves by chalking it upon walls , or scribbling it upon monuments . 
But , all that's bright must fade , even in slang . 
The people grew tired of their hobby , and There he goes with his eye out ! was heard no more in its accustomed haunts . 
What tended to impede its progress was , that it could not be well applied to the older portions of society . 
It consequently ran but a brief career , and then sank into oblivion . 
Its successor enjoyed a more extended fame , and laid its foundations so deep , that years and changing fashions have not sufficed to eradicate it . 
This phrase was Flare up ! and it is , even now , a colloquialism in common use . 
It took its rise in the time of the Reform riots , when Bristol was nearly half burned by the infuriated populace . 
The flames were said to have flared up in the devoted city . 
To put one's self into a passion to stroll out on a nocturnal frolic , and alarm a neighbourhood , or to create a disturbance in any shape , was to flare up . 
So great a favourite was the word , that people loved to repeat it for its very sound . 
Even in the dead hours of the night , the ears of those who watched late , or who could not sleep , were saluted with the same sound . 
The drunkard reeling home showed that he was still a man and a citizen , by calling flare up in the pauses of his hiccough . 
The people grew at last weary of the monotony , and flare up became vulgar even among them . 
Gradually it was left to little boys who did not know the world , and in process of time sank altogether into neglect . 
It is now heard no more as a piece of popular slang but the words are still used to signify any sudden outburst either of fire , disturbance , or ill nature . 
Apprentice lads and shopmen in their Sunday clothes held the words in abhorrence , and looked fierce when they were applied to them . 
Altogether the phrase had a very salutary effect , and in a thousand instances showed young Vanity , that it was not half so pretty and engaging as it thought itself . 
What rendered it so provoking was the doubt it implied as to the capability of self guidance possessed by the individual to whom it was addressed . 
Hence the great wrath of those who verged on manhood , but had not reached it , whenever they were made the subject of it . 
The man pleaded ignorance that his customer was a Lord , but offended justice fined him for his mistake . 
When this phrase had numbered its appointed days , it died away , like its predecessors , and Who are you ? reigned in its stead . 
This new favourite , like a mushroom , seems to have sprung up in a night , or , like a frog in Cheapside , to have come down in a sudden shower . 
The phrase was uttered quickly , and with a sharp sound upon the first and last words , leaving the middle one little more than an aspiration . 
Like all its compeers which had been extensively popular , it was applicable to almost every variety of circumstance . 
The lovers of a plain answer to a plain question did not like it at all . 
Insolence made use of it to give offence ignorance , to avoid exposing itself and waggery , to create laughter . 
An authoritative disputant was not unfrequently put down , and presumption of every kind checked by the same query . 
Another circumstance , of a similar kind , gave an additional fillip to the phrase , and infused new life and vigour into it , just as it was dying away . 
The scene occurred in the chief criminal court of the kingdom . 
And where are your witnesses ? inquired the learned judge who presided . 
Please you , my Lord , I knows the prisoner at the bar , and a more honester feller never breathed , said a rough voice in the gallery . 
The officers of the court looked aghast , and the strangers tittered with ill suppressed laughter . 
Who are you ? said the Judge , looking suddenly up , but with imperturbable gravity . 
The court was convulsed the titter broke out into a laugh , and it was several minutes before silence and decorum could be restored . 
When the Ushers recovered their self possession , they made diligent search for the profane transgressor but he was not to be found . 
Nobody knew him nobody had seen him . 
After a while the business of the court again proceeded . 
So thought many of the prisoners , if we may infer it from the fact , that the learned judge suddenly acquired an immense increase of popularity . 
The praise of his wit was in every mouth , and Who are you ? renewed its lease , and remained in possession of public favour for another term in consequence . 
But it must not be supposed that there were no interregni between the dominion of one slang phrase and another . 
They did not arise in one long line of unbroken succession , but shared with song the possession of popular favour . 
About twenty years ago London resounded with one chorus , with the love of which everybody seemed to be smitten . 
Girls and boys , young men and old , maidens and wives , and widows , were all alike musical . 
Cherry ripe ! Cherry ripe ! was the universal cry of all the idle in the town . 
This plague lasted for a twelvemonth , until the very name of cherries became an abomination in the land . 
At last the excitement wore itself away , and the tide of favour set in a new direction . 
Verbal wit had amused the multitude long enough , and they became more practical in their recreation . 
If one man wished to insult or annoy another , he had only to make use of this cabalistic sign in his face , and his object was accomplished . 
There is some remnant of this absurd custom to be seen to this day but it is thought low , even among the vulgar . 
About six years ago , London became again most preposterously musical . 
No wonder , he might have said , that this people is invincible upon the ocean . 
Such would , doubtless , have been his impression if he had taken the evidence only of his ears . 
The migratory minstrels of Savoy caught the strain , and pealed it down the long vistas of quiet streets , till their innermost and snuggest apartments re echoed with the sound . 
Men were obliged to endure this crying evil for full six months , wearied to desperation , and made sea sick on the dry land . 
The singer sang his verses in appropriate costume , with grotesque gesticulations , and a sudden whirl of his body at the close of each verse . 
These are the whimseys of the mass the harmless follies by which they unconsciously endeavour to lighten the load of care which presses upon their existence . 
And these things bred a great combustion in the town . 
Wagstaffe's Apparition of Mother Haggis . 
But we will begin with the beginning , and trace the O. P. mania from its source . 
On the night of the th of September , , the old theatre of Covent Garden was totally destroyed by fire . 
With so much celerity were the works carried on that , in nine months more , the edifice was completed , both without and within . 
The opening night was announced for the th of September , within two days of a twelvemonth since the destruction of the original building . 
But the undertaking had proved more expensive than the Committee anticipated . 
To render the pit entrance more commodious , it had been deemed advisable to remove a low public house that stood in the way . 
This turned out a matter of no little difficulty , for the proprietor was a man well skilled in driving a hard bargain . 
The more eager the Committee showed themselves to come to terms with him for his miserable pot house , the more grasping he became in his demands for compensation . 
They were ultimately obliged to pay him an exorbitant sum . 
This announcement created the greatest dissatisfaction . 
The boxes might have borne the oppression , but the dignity of the pit was wounded . 
A war cry was raised immediately . 
The newspapers assiduously kept up the excitement , and represented , day after day , to the managers the impolicy of the proposed advance . 
The bitter politics of the time were disregarded , and Kemble and Covent Garden became as great sources of interest as Napoleon and France . 
But great as was the indignation of the lovers of the drama at that time , no one could have anticipated the extraordinary lengths to which opposition would be carried . 
First Night , September th . 
The performances announced were the tragedy of Macbeth and the afterpiece of The Quaker . 
with persons who had gone for no other purpose than to make a disturbance . 
They soon discovered another grievance to add to the list . 
Here they were stowed into boxes which , from their size and shape , received the contemptuous , and not inappropriate designation of pigeon holes . 
The riot now began in earnest not a word of the address was audible , from the stamping and groaning of the people in the pit . 
This continued , almost without intermission , through the five acts of the tragedy . 
This ill judged proceeding made the matter worse . 
The men of the pit were exasperated by the indignity , and strained their lungs to express how deeply they felt it . 
Thus remained the war till long after midnight , when the belligerents withdrew from sheer exhaustion . 
With the latter , the play was not the thing , and Macheath and Polly sang in The Beggar's Opera in vain . 
The actors and the public appeared to have changed sides the audience acted , and the actors listened . 
A new feature of this night's proceedings was the introduction of placards . 
Several were displayed from the pit and boxes , inscribed in large letters with the words , Old prices . 
Confusion now became worse and worse confounded . 
The appearance of several gentlemen in the morning at the bar of the Bow Street police office , to answer for their riotous conduct , had been indignantly commented upon during the day . 
All augured ill for the quiet of the night . 
The performances announced were Richard the Third and The Poor Soldier , but the popularity of the tragedy could not obtain it a hearing . 
The pitites seemed to be drawn into closer union by the attacks made upon them , and to act more in concert than on the previous nights . 
The placards were , also , more numerous not only the pit , but the boxes and galleries exhibited them . 
Among the most conspicuous , was one inscribed , John Bull against John Kemble . 
Who'll win ? Another bore King George for ever ! but no King Kemble . 
This last was a double barrelled one , expressing both dramatic and political discontent , and was received with loud cheers by the pitites . 
The tragedy and afterpiece were concluded full two hours before their regular time and the cries for Mr. Kemble became so loud , that the manager thought proper to obey the summons . 
Amid all these scenes of uproar he preserved his equanimity , and was never once betrayed into any expression of petulance or anger . 
With some difficulty he obtained a hearing . 
He entered into a detail of the affairs of the theatre , assuring the audience at the same time of the solicitude of the proprietors to accommodate themselves to the public wish . 
A gentleman then rose in the boxes and requested a hearing . 
He obtained it without difficulty . 
The speaker , whose name was understood to be Leigh , then requested a cheer for the actors , to show that no disrespect was intended them . 
The cheer was given immediately . 
A barrister of the name of Smythe then rose to crave another hearing for Mr. Kemble . 
The manager stood forth again , calm , unmoved , and severe . 
Ladies and gentlemen , said he , I wait here to know your wishes . 
Hereat the shouts of applause again rose , till the building rang . 
Still serene amid the storm , the manager endeavoured to enter into explanations . 
The men of the pit would hear nothing of the sort . 
They wanted entire and absolute acquiescence . 
Less would not satisfy them and , as Mr. Kemble only wished to explain , they would not hear a word . 
He finally withdrew amid a noise to which Babel must have been comparatively silent . 
The rioters were more obstinate than ever . 
The noises were increased by the addition of whistles , bugle horns , and watchmen's rattles , sniffling , snorting , and clattering from all parts of the house . 
Human lungs were taxed to the uttermost , and the stamping on the floor raised such a dust as to render all objects but dimly visible . 
In placards , too , there was greater variety . 
The loose wits of the town had all day been straining their ingenuity to invent new ones . 
It is a proof of weakness which masses of people at once perceive , and never fail to take advantage of . 
Thus , when the managers unwisely resolved to fight the mob with their own weapons , it only increased the opposition it was intended to allay . 
A dozen pugilists , commanded by a notorious boxer of the day , were introduced into the pit , to use the argumentum ad hominem to the rioters . 
Continual scuffles ensued but the invincible resolution of the playgoers would not allow them to quail it rather aroused them to renewed opposition , and a determination never to submit or yield . 
It also strengthened their cause , by affording them further ground of complaint against the managers . 
The latter , indeed , afforded some sport . 
The title was too apt to the occasion to escape notice , and shouts of Who wins ? who wins ? displaced for a time the accustomed cry of old prices . 
Mr. Kemble was again called forward but when he came , the full tide of discord ran so strongly against him that , being totally unable to stem it , he withdrew . 
At last the audience were tired out , and the theatre was closed before eleven o'clock . 
The play was Coleman's amusing comedy of John Bull . 
There was no diminution of the uproar . 
Every note on the diapason of discord was run through . 
The prize fighters , or hitites as they were called , mustered in considerable numbers , and the battles between them and the pitites were fierce and many . 
It was now , for the first time , that the letters O. P. came into general use as an abbreviation of the accustomed watchword of old prices . 
Several placards were thus inscribed and , as brevity is so desirable in shouting , the mob adopted the emendation . 
As usual , the manager was called for . 
After some delay he came forward , and was listened to with considerable patience . 
By their decision as to the possibility of carrying on the theatre at the old prices , he would consent to be governed , and he hoped the public would do the same . 
This reasonable proposition was scouted immediately . 
Not even the high and reputable names he had mentioned were thought to afford any guarantee for impartiality . 
They wanted full acquiescence , and nothing less . 
Thus the conference broke off , and the manager retired amid a storm of hisses . 
An Irish gentleman , named O'Reilly , then stood up in one of the boxes . 
With true Irish gallantry , he came to the rescue of an ill used lady . 
He said he was disgusted at the attacks made upon Madame Catalani , the finest singer in the world , and a lady inestimable in private life . 
It was unjust , unmanly , and un English to make the innocent suffer for the guilty and he hoped this blot would be no longer allowed to stain a fair cause . 
As to the quarrel with the manager , he recommended them to persevere . 
The gallant Hibernian soon became a favourite , and sat down amid loud cheers . 
No signs of a cessation of hostilities on the one side , or of a return to the old prices on the other . 
The playgoers seemed to grow more united as the managers grew more obstinate . 
Notwithstanding the remonstrance of Mr. O'Reilly on the previous night , numerous placards reflecting upon Madame Catalani were exhibited . 
One was inscribed with the following doggrel Seventeen thousand a year goes pat , To Kemble , his sister , and Madame Cat . 
John Kemble be damn'd , We will not be cramm'd . 
Squire Kemble Begins to tremble . 
The curtain fell as early as nine o'clock , when there being loud calls for Mr. Kemble , he stood forward . 
He announced that Madame Catalani , against whom so unjustifiable a prejudice had been excited , had thrown up her engagement rather than stand in the way of any accommodation of existing differences . 
This announcement was received with great applause . 
Mr. Kemble then went on to vindicate himself and co proprietors from the charge of despising public opinion . 
No assertion , he assured them , could be more unjust . 
This speech was received with cheering , but interrupted at the close by some individuals , who objected to any committee of the manager's nomination . 
This led to a renewal of the uproar , and it was some time before silence could be obtained . 
Immediately every person in the pit stood up , and a long shout of triumph resounded through the house , which was heard at the extremity of Bow Street . 
The committee ultimately chosen differed from that first named , Alderman Sir Charles Price , Bart . 
and Mr. Silvester , the Recorder of London , being substituted for Sir Francis Baring and Sir Vicary Gibbs . 
In a few days they had examined the multitudinous documents of the theatre , and agreed to a report which was published in all the newspapers , and otherwise distributed . 
They stated the average profits of the six preceding years at and per cent , being only and per cent . 
beyond the legal interest of money , to recompense the proprietors for all their care and enterprise . 
Under the new prices they would receive and per cent . 
profit but if they returned to the old prices , they would suffer a loss of fifteen shillings per cent . 
Under these circumstances , they could do no other than recommend the proprietors to continue the new prices . 
This report gave no satisfaction . 
It certainly convinced the reasonable , but they , unfortunately , were in a minority of one to ten . 
The managers , disregarding the outcry that it excited , advertised the recommencement of the performances for Wednesday the th of October following . 
They endeavoured to pack the house with their friends , but the sturdy O. P. men were on the alert , and congregated in the pit in great numbers . 
The play was The Beggar's Opera , but , as on former occasions , it was wholly inaudible . 
Once more the manager essayed the difficult task of convincing madness by appealing to reason . 
Loud cheers greeted this speech every eye was turned towards the boxes , and the few ladies in them immediately withdrew . 
At the same moment , some inveterate pitite hoisted a large placard , on which was inscribed , We lads of the pit Will never submit . 
These appeared to give the managers more annoyance than all the rest , and the prize fighters made vigorous attacks upon the holders of them . 
Several persons were , on this night , and indeed nearly every night , taken into custody , and locked up in the watchhouse . 
On their appearance the following morning , they were generally held to bail in considerable sums to keep the peace . 
This proceeding greatly augmented the animosity of the pit . 
It would be useless to detail the scenes of confusion which followed night after night . 
For about three weeks the war continued with unabated fury . 
Its characteristics were nearly always the same . 
Invention was racked to discover new noises , and it was thought a happy idea when one fellow got into the gallery with a dustman's bell , and rang it furiously . 
Dogs were also brought into the boxes , to add their sweet voices to the general uproar . 
So strong did the popular enthusiasm run in favour of the row , that well dressed ladies appeared in the boxes with the letters O. P. on their bonnets . 
O. P. toothpicks were also in fashion and gentlemen and ladies carried O. P. handkerchiefs , which they waved triumphantly whenever the row was unusually deafening . 
The latter suggested the idea of O. P. flags , which were occasionally unfurled from the gallery to the length of a dozen feet . 
Sometimes the first part of the night's performances were listened to with comparative patience , a majority of the manager's friends being in possession of the house . 
But as soon as the half price commenced , the row began again in all its pristine glory . 
At the fall of the curtain it soon became customary to sing God save the King , the whole of the O. P. 's joining in loyal chorus . 
Sometimes this was followed by Rule Britannia and , on two or three occasions , by a parody of the national anthem , which excited great laughter . 
A verse may not be uninteresting as a specimen . 
An idea seemed about this time to break in upon them , that notwithstanding the annoyance they caused the manager , they were aiding to fill his coffers . 
This was hinted at in some of the newspapers , and the consequence was , that many stayed away to punish him , if possible , under the silent system . 
But this did not last long . 
The love of mischief was as great an incentive to many of them as enmity to the new prices . 
Accidental circumstances also contributed to disturb the temporary calm . 
At the Westminster quarter sessions , on the th of October , bills of indictment were preferred against forty one persons for creating a disturbance and interrupting the performances of the theatre . 
The grand jury ignored twenty seven of the bills , left two undecided , and found true bills against twelve . 
The latter exercised their right of traverse till the ensuing sessions . 
The preferment of these bills had the effect of re awakening the subsiding excitement . 
Another circumstance about the same time gave a still greater impetus to it , and furnished the rioters with a chief , round whom they were eager to rally . 
Mr. Clifford , a barrister , appeared in the pit on the night of the st of October , with the letters O. P. on his hat . 
This was exactly what Clifford wanted . 
The result was made known in the theatre a few minutes afterwards , where Mr. Clifford , on his appearance victorious , was received with reiterated huzzas . 
On his leaving the house , he was greeted by a mob of five or six hundred persons , who had congregated outside to do him honour as he passed . 
From that night the riots may be said to have recommenced , and Clifford and O. P. became the rallying cry of the party . 
In the course of the few succeeding weeks , during which the riots continued with undiminished fury , O. P. medals were struck , and worn in great numbers in the theatre . 
A few of the ultra zealous even wore them in the streets . 
An action was accordingly brought against him and other defendants in the Court of King's Bench . 
The rule was granted , and an early day fixed for the trial . 
It was during this year that the national Jubilee was celebrated , in honour of tile fiftieth year of the reign of George III . 
When the riots had reached their fiftieth night , the O. P. s also determined to have a jubilee . 
Pending the criminal prosecution against himself , Mr. Clifford brought an action for false imprisonment against Brandon . 
The cause was fixed for trial in the Court of Common Pleas , on the th of December , before Lord Chief Justice Mansfield . 
From an early hour in the morning all the avenues leading to the court were thronged with an eager multitude all London was in anxiety for the resuit . 
So dense was the crowd , that counsel found the greatest difficulty in making their way into court . 
Mr. Sergeant Best was retained on the part of the plaintiff , and Mr. Sergeant Shepherd for the defence . 
The defendant put two pleas upon the record first , that he was not guilty , and secondly , that he was justified . 
Even if he had joined in the noises , which he had not , his so doing would not subject him to the penalties for rioting . 
Several witnesses were then called to prove the capture of Mr. Clifford , the hearing of the case before the magistrate at Bow Street , and his ultimate dismissal . 
The Lord Chief Justice summed up , with an evident bias in favour of the defendant . 
He said an undue apprehension of the rights of an audience had got abroad . 
Even supposing the object of the rioters to be fair and legal , they were not authorized to carry it by unfair means . 
The jury retired to consider their verdict . 
The crowd without and within the court awaited the result in feverish suspense . 
Half an hour elapsed , when the jury returned with a verdict for the plaintiff Damages , five pounds . 
The satisfaction of the spectators was evident upon their countenances , that of the judge expressed the contrary feeling . 
This vague answer did not satisfy his Lordship , and he repeated his question . 
He could not , however , obtain a more satisfactory reply . 
The country would be lost , he said , and the government overturned , if such a spirit were encouraged it was impossible it could end in good . 
Time , the destroyer and fulfiller of predictions , has proved that his Lordship was a false prophet . 
The harmless O. P. war has been productive of no such dire results . 
It was to be expected that after this triumph , the war in the pit would rage with redoubled acrimony . 
A riot beginning at half price would not satisfy the excited feelings of the O. P. s on the night of such a victory . 
One of them , which met this fate , was inscribed , Success to O. P. ! A British jury for ever ! It was soon replaced by another of a similar purport . 
It is needless to detail the uproar that ensued the jumping , the fighting , the roaring , and the howling . 
For nine nights more the same system was continued but the end was at hand . 
On the th a grand dinner was given at the Crown and Anchor tavern , to celebrate the victory of Mr. Clifford . 
The reprobators of managerial insolence , as they called themselves , attended in considerable numbers and Mr. Clifford was voted to the chair . 
The cloth had been removed , and a few speeches made , when the company were surprised by a message that their arch enemy himself solicited the honour of an audience . 
It was some time ere they could believe that Mr. Kemble had ventured to such a place . 
After some parley the manager was admitted , and a conference was held . 
A treaty was ultimately signed and sealed , which put an end to the long contested wars of O. P. , and restored peace to the drama . 
All this time the disturbance proceeded at the theatre with its usual spirit . 
It was now the sixty sixth night of its continuance , and the rioters were still untired still determined to resist to the last . 
This announcement was received with deafening cheers . 
As soon as the first burst of enthusiasm was over , the O. P. s became anxious for a confirmation of the intelligence , and commenced a loud call for Mr. Kemble . 
He had not then returned from the Crown and Anchor but of this the pitites were not aware , and for nearly half an hour they kept up a most excruciating din . 
At length the great actor made his appearance , in his walking dress , with his cane in hand , as he had left the tavern . 
It was a long time before he could obtain silence . 
apologized in the most respectful terms for appearing before them in such unbecoming costume , which was caused solely by his ignorance that he should have to appear before them that night . 
After an ineffectual attempt to address them again upon this point , Mr. Kemble made respectful and repeated obeisances , and withdrew . 
The uproar was increased threefold by his presence , and , amid cries of We won't hear him ! Where's his master ? he was obliged to retire . 
Amid this uproar the curtain finally fell , and the O. P. dance was danced for the last time within the walls of Covent Garden . 
On the following night it was announced that Brandon had resigned his situation . 
This turned the tide of popular ill will . 
The performances were The Wheel of Fortune , and an afterpiece . 
The noises ceased entirely , and the symbols of opposition disappeared . 
The audience , hushed into attention , gave vent to no sounds but those of admiration for the genius of the actor . 
It was a triumphant scene for Mr. Kemble after his long annoyances . 
He had achieved a double victory . 
The popular favour not only turned towards him it embraced everybody connected with the theatre , except the poor victim , Brandon . 
Most of the favourite actors were called before the curtain to make their bow , and receive the acclamations of the pit . 
Thus ended the famous wars of O. P. , which , for a period of nearly three months , had kept the metropolis in an uproar . 
THE THUGS , or PHANSIGARS . 
Orribili favelle parole di dolor . 
In the year , a gang of Thugs , laden with the plunder of murdered travellers , was accidentally discovered . 
The inquiries then set on foot revealed to the astonished Government a system of iniquity unparalleled in the history of man . 
Subsequent investigation extended the knowledge and by throwing light upon the peculiar habits of the murderers , explained the reason why their crimes had remained so long undiscovered . 
In the following pages will be found an epitome of all the information which has reached Europe concerning them , derived principally from Dr . 
The followers of this sect are called Thugs , or T'hugs , and their profession Thuggee . 
In the south of India they are called Phansigars the former word signifying a deceiver and the latter , a strangler . 
They are both singularly appropriate . 
These gangs generally contain from ten to forty Thugs , and sometimes as many as two hundred . 
Each strangler is provided with a noose , to despatch the unfortunate victim , as the Thugs make it a point never to cause death by any other means . 
When the gangs are very large , they divide into smaller bodies and each taking a different route , they arrive at the same general place of rendezvous to divide the spoil . 
They sometimes travel in the disguise of respectable traders sometimes as sepoys or native soldiers and at others , as government officers . 
If they chance to fall in with an unprotected wayfarer , his fate is certain . 
But solitary travellers are not the prey they are anxious to seek . 
A wealthy caravan of forty or fifty individuals has not unfrequently been destroyed by them not one soul being permitted to escape . 
Each individual of the gang has his peculiar duty allotted to him . 
If they can , they enter into conversation with them , pretend to be travelling to the same place , and propose , for mutual security , to travel with them . 
This intelligence is duly communicated to the remainder of the gang . 
place usually chosen for the murder is some lonely part of the road in the vicinity of a jungle , and the time , just before dusk . 
At given signals , understood only by themselves , the scouts of the party station themselves in the front , in the rear , and on each side , to guard against surprise . 
At another signal the noose is twisted , drawn tightly by a strong hand at each extremity , and the traveller , in a few seconds , hurried into eternity . 
Ten , twelve , twenty , and in some instances , sixty persons have been thus despatched at the same moment . 
Their next care is to dispose of the bodies . 
So cautious are they to prevent detection , that they usually break all the joints to hasten decomposition . 
When obliged to bury the body in a frequented district , they kindle a fire over the grave to obliterate the traces of the newly turned earth . 
The stranglers , in the mean time , journey quietly with their victims , conversing with them in the most friendly manner . 
Towards nightfall they approach the spot selected for their murder the signal is given , and they fall into the graves that have been ready for them since day break . 
The only one left alive of all that numerous party , was an infant four years old , who was afterwards initiated into all the mysteries of Thuggee . 
But this only happens when they fall in with a victim unexpectedly . 
In murders which they have planned previously , the finding of a place of sepulture is never left to hazard . 
Travellers who have the misfortune to lodge in the same choultry or hostelry , as the Thugs , are often murdered during the night . 
It is either against their creed to destroy a sleeper , or they find a difficulty in placing the noose round the neck of a person in a recumbent position . 
When this is the case , the slumberer is suddenly aroused by the alarm of a snake or a scorpion . 
He starts to his feet , and finds the fatal sash around his neck . 
In addition to these Thugs who frequent the highways , there are others , who infest the rivers , and are called Pungoos . 
They do not differ in creed , but only in a few of their customs , from their brethren on shore . 
The boatmen , who are also Thugs , are not different in appearance from the ordinary boatmen on the river . 
The artifices used to entice victims on board are precisely similar to those employed by the highway Thugs . 
They send out their inveiglers to scrape acquaintance with travellers , and find out the direction in which they are journeying . 
They always pretend to be bound for the same place , and vaunt the superior accommodation of the boat by which they are going . 
This is a signal from the Thugs on the look out that the coast is clear . 
In an instant the fatal noose is ready , and the travellers are no more . 
The bodies are then thrown , warm and palpitating , into the river , from a hole in the side of the boat , contrived expressly for the purpose . 
A river Thug , who was apprehended , turned approver , to save his own life , and gave the following evidence relative to the practices of his fraternity We embarked at Rajmahul . 
were placed in the stern , the Thugs on our left , and the travellers on our right . 
We came up with a gentleman's pinnace and two baggage boats , and were obliged to stop , and let them go on . 
The travellers seemed anxious but were quieted by being told that the men at the rope were tired , and must take some refreshment . 
They pulled out something , and began to eat and when the pinnace had got on a good way , they resumed their work , and our boat proceeded . 
That such atrocities as these should have been carried on for nearly two centuries without exciting the attention of the British Government , seems incredible . 
But our wonder will be diminished when we reflect upon the extreme caution of the Thugs , and the ordinary dangers of travelling in India . 
The Thugs never murder a man near his own home , and they never dispose of their booty near the scene of the murder . 
They have no clue to the assassins , and very often impute to the wild beasts of the jungles the slaughter committed by that wilder beast , man . 
There are several gradations through which every member of the fraternity must regularly pass before he arrives at the high office of a Bhurtote , or strangler . 
He is first employed as a scout then as a sexton then as a Shumseea , or holder of hands , and lastly as a Bhurtote . 
This knot is called the goor khat , or holy knot , and no man who has not been properly ordained is allowed to tie it . 
The aspirant receives it reverently in his right hand from his Gooroo , and stands over the sleeping victim , with a Shumseea , or holder of hands , at his side . 
The relationship between the Gooroo and his disciple is accounted the most holy that can be formed , and subsists to the latest period of life . 
A Thug may betray his father , but never his Gooroo . 
Dark and forbidding as is the picture already drawn , it will become still darker and more repulsive , when we consider the motives which prompt these men to systematic murder . 
He was sent into the world to be a slayer of men , and he religiously works out his destiny . 
The following is the wild and startling legend upon which the Thugs found the divine origin of their sect . 
They believe that , in the earliest ages of the world , a gigantic demon infested the earth , and devoured mankind as soon as they were created . 
Nerving herself for the encounter , she armed herself with an immense sword and , meeting with the demon , she ran him through the body . 
His blood flowed in torrents as he fell dead at her feet but from every drop there sprang up another monster , as rapacious and as terrible as the first . 
Again the goddess upraised her massive sword , and hewed down the hellish brood by hundreds but the more she slew , the more numerous they became . 
The perspiration rolled down her arms in large drops , and she was compelled to think of some other mode of exterminating them . 
In this emergency , she created two men out of the perspiration of her body , to whom she confided the holy task of delivering the earth from the monsters . 
To each of the men she gave a handkerchief , and showed them how to kill without shedding blood . 
When there were no more to slay , the two men sought the great goddess , in order to return the handkerchiefs . 
These were the two first Thugs , and from them the whole race have descended . 
To the early Thugs the goddess was more direct in her favours , than she has been to their successors . 
At first , she undertook to bury the bodies of all the men they slew and plundered , upon the condition that they should never look back to see what she was doing . 
Half of the still palpitating remains was dangling over her lips . 
She was so highly displeased that she condemned the Thugs , from that time forward , to bury their victims themselves . 
Another account states that the goddess was merely tossing the body in the air and that , being naked , her anger was aggravated by the gaze of mortal eyes upon her charms . 
She has not since appeared to human eyes . 
The pickaxe is looked upon with the utmost veneration by the tribe . 
A short account of the process of making it , and the rites performed , may be interesting , as showing still further their gloomy superstition . 
In the first place , it is necessary to fix upon a lucky day . 
The chief Thug then instructs a smith to forge the holy instrument no other eye is permitted to see the operation . 
The smith must engage in no other occupation until it is completed , and the chief Thug never quits his side during the process . 
When the instrument is formed , it becomes necessary to consecrate it to the especial service of Bhawnee . 
A learned Thug then sits down and turning his face to the west , receives the pickaxe in a brass dish . 
After muttering some incantation , he throws it into a pit already prepared for it , where it is washed in clear water . 
It is then taken out , and washed again three times the first time in sugar and water , the second in sour milk , and the third in spirits . 
It is then dried , and marked from the head to the point with seven red spots . 
This is the first part of the ceremony the second consists in its purification by fire . 
The pickaxe is again placed upon the brass dish , along with a cocoa nut , some sugar , cloves , white sandal wood , and other articles . 
It now remains to be ascertained whether the goddess is favourable to her followers . 
For this purpose , the cocoa nut is taken from the dish and placed upon the ground . 
But if the sign be favourable , the axe is tied carefully in a white cloth and turned towards the west , all the spectators prostrating themselves before it . 
It is then buried in the earth , with its point turned in the direction the gang wishes to take on their approaching expedition . 
During an expedition , it is entrusted to the most prudent and exemplary Thug of the party it is his care to hold it fast . 
So great is the reverence in which they hold the sacred axe , that a Thug will never break an oath that he has taken upon it . 
The Thugs are diligent observers of signs and omens . 
No expedition is ever undertaken before the auspices are solemnly taken . 
In ordinary cases of murder , other men seldom escaped punishment , while they and their families had , for ten generations , thrived , although they had murdered hundreds of people . 
'This , said the Thug , could never have been the case had we not attended to omens , and had not omens been intended for us . 
Every Thug present concurred with him from his soul . 
From the time that the omens were favourable , the Thugs considered all the travellers they met as victims thrown into their hands by their divinity to be killed . 
The Thugs were the mere instruments in the hands of Bhawanee to destroy them . 
If we did not kill them , said Sahib , the goddess would never again be propitious to us , and we and our families would be involved in misery and want . 
If we see or hear a bad omen , it is the order of the goddess not to kill the travellers we are in pursuit of , and we dare not disobey . 
As soon as an expedition has been planned , the goddess is consulted . 
All the Thugs present solemnly repeat the prayer after their leader , and wait in silence for the omen . 
Any evil omens that are perceived after this ceremony may be averted by sacrifices but any evil omens before , would at once put an end to the expedition . 
In like manner it is unlucky to sneeze , to meet a woman with an empty pail , a couple of jackals , or a hare . 
The crossing of their path by the latter is considered peculiarly inauspicious . 
Bhawanee would be wroth with her children and causing them to perish in the jungle , would send the hares to drink water out of their skulls . 
The good omens are quite as numerous as the evil . 
It promises a fortunate expedition , if , on the first day , they pass through a village where there is a fair . 
It is also deemed fortunate , if they hear wailing for the dead in any village but their own . 
To meet a woman with a pitcher full of water upon her head , bodes a prosperous journey and a safe return . 
The omen is still more favourable if she be in a state of pregnancy . 
This practice , however , is not general . 
After every murder a solemn sacrifice , called the Tuponee , is performed by all the gang . 
The goor , or consecrated sugar , is placed upon a large cloth or blanket , which is spread upon the grass . 
Beside it is deposited the sacred pickaxe , and a piece of silver for an offering . 
The Jemadar , or chief of the party , together with all the oldest and most prudent Thugs , take their places upon the cloth , and turn their faces to the west . 
Those inferior Thugs who cannot find room upon the privileged cloth , sit round as close to it as possible . 
All the Thugs repeat the prayer after him . 
He then sprinkles water upon the pickaxe , and puts a little of the goor upon the head of every one who has obtained a seat beside him on the cloth . 
A short pause ensues , when the signal for strangling is given , as if a murder were actually about to be committed , and each Thug eats his goor in solemn silence . 
So powerful is the impression made upon their imagination by this ceremony , that it almost drives them frantic with enthusiasm . 
Let any man once taste of that goor , and he will be a Thug , though he know all the trades and have all the wealth in the world . 
I never was in want of food my mother's family was opulent , and her relations high in office . 
My father made me taste of that fatal goor , when I was yet a mere boy and if I were to live a thousand years I should never be . 
able to follow any other trade . 
The possession of wealth , station in society , and the esteem of his fellows , could not keep this man from murder . 
Even severity seems thrown away upon the followers of this brutalizing creed . 
To their neglect of the warnings of the goddess they attribute all the reverses which have of late years befallen their sect . 
It is expressly forbidden , in the creed of the old Thugs , to murder women or cripples . 
The modern Thugs have become unscrupulous upon this point , murdering women , and even children , with unrelenting barbarity . 
Captain Sleeman reports several conversations upon this subject , which he held at different times with Thugs , who had been taken prisoners , or who had turned approvers . 
Lalmun , another Thug , in reply to a similar question , said , Most of our misfortunes have come upon us for the murder of women . 
We all knew that they would come upon us some day , for this and other great sins . 
We were often admonished , but we did not take warning and we deserve our fates . 
All kinds of men have been made Thugs , and all classes of people murdered , without distinction and little attention has been paid to omens . 
She can inflict no severer punishment , and therefore gives herself no further concern about her degenerate children . 
Another branch of the Thug abomination has more recently been discovered by the indefatigable Captain Sleeman . 
The followers of this sect are called MEGPUNNAS , and they murder travellers , not to rob them of their wealth , but of their children , whom they afterwards sell into slavery . 
They entertain the same religious opinions as the Thugs , and have carried on their hideous practices , and entertained their dismal superstition , for about a dozen years with impunity . 
The original Thugs never or rarely travel with their wives but the Megpunnas invariably take their families with them , the women and children being used to inveigle the victims . 
Poor travellers are always chosen by the Megpunnas as the objects of their murderous traffic . 
The women take care of the children . 
These murders are perpetrated perhaps five hundred miles from the homes of the unfortunate victims and the children thus obtained , deprived of all their relatives , are never inquired after . 
Even should any of their kin be alive , they are too far off and too poor to institute inquiries . 
He was considered so holy a man , that the Thugs and Megpunnas considered it an extreme felicity to gaze upon and touch him . 
The Megpunna , says the tradition , stretched forth his hand to heaven , prayed , and the fire ceased immediately . 
There now only remain to be considered the exertions that have been made to remove from the face of India this purulent and disgusting sore . 
From to , both included , there were committed to prison , in the various Presidencies , persons accused of this crime . 
Of these , were hanged transported imprisoned for life imprisoned for shorter periods held to bail and only acquitted . 
Of the remainder , died in prison , before they were brought to trial , escaped , and turned approvers . 
He mentioned the place of rendezvous , for the following February , of some well organized gangs , who were to proceed into Guzerat and Candeish . 
Captain Sleeman appeared to doubt his information but accompanied the Thug to a mango grove , two stages from Sangir , on the road to Seronage . 
The sward had grown over all the spots , and not the slightest traces were to be seen that it had ever been disturbed . 
Under the sod of Captain Sleeman's tent were found the bodies of the first party , consisting of a pundit and his six attendants , murdered in . 
The workmen dug five feet without discovering the bodies but they were at length found a little beyond that depth , exactly as the Thug had described them . 
They were arrested in the February following , at the place of rendezvous pointed out by the approver , and most of them condemned and executed . 
So far we learn from Captain Sleeman , who only brought down his tables to the close of the year . 
A writer in the Foreign Quarterly Review furnishes an additional list of persons , committed to prison in , for being concerned in the murder and robbery of individuals . 
Not one of the whole number was acquitted . 
Great as is this amount of criminals who have been brought to justice , it is to be feared that many years must elapse before an evil so deeply rooted can be eradicated . 
The difficulty is increased by the utter hopelessness of reformation as regards the survivors . 
L ND N PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY Bangor House , Shoe Lane . 
