He lived with his father and mother in a cottage built on a mountain , and he worked with his father inside the mountain . 
A mountain is a strange and awful thing . 
In old times , without knowing so much of their strangeness and awfulness as we do , people were yet more afraid of mountains . 
But then somehow they had not come to see how beautiful they are as well as awful , and they hated them and what people hate they must fear . 
Now that we have learned to look at them with admiration , perhaps we do not feel quite awe enough of them . 
To me they are beautiful terrors . 
I will try to tell you what they are . 
They are portions of the heart of the earth that have escaped from the dungeon down below , and rushed up and out . 
And as our hearts keep us alive , so that great lump of heat keeps the earth alive it is a huge power of buried sunlight that is what it is . 
Think , too , of the change in their own substance no longer molten and soft , heaving and glowing , but hard and shining and cold . 
Then there are caverns full of water , numbingly cold , fiercely hot hotter than any boiling water . 
Curdie and his father were of these their business was to bring to light hidden things they sought silver in the rock and found it , and carried it out . 
Of the many other precious things in their mountain they knew little or nothing . 
Silver ore was what they were sent to find , and in darkness and danger they found it . 
Nothing that could be got from the heart of the earth could have been put to better purposes than the silver the king's miners got for him . 
About a year before this story began , a series of very remarkable events had just ended . 
I will narrate as much of them as will serve to show the tops of the roots of my tree . 
So the king took a kind farewell of them all and rode away , with his daughter on his horse before him . 
A gloom fell upon the mountain and the miners when she was gone , and Curdie did not whistle for a whole week . 
As for his verses , there was no occasion to make any now . 
But whoever is diligent will soon be cheerful , and though the miners missed the household of the castle , they yet managed to get on without them . 
Peter and his wife , however , were troubled with the fancy that they had stood in the way of their boy's good fortune . 
it would have been such a fine thing for him and them , too , they thought , if he had ridden with the good king's train . 
We must accept righteous sacrifices as well as make them . 
That personage was the great great grandmother of the princess , of whom the princess had often talked , but whom neither Curdie nor his mother had ever seen . 
Since that time neither had seen or heard anything that could be supposed connected with her . 
Strangely enough , however , nobody had seen her go away . 
if she was such an old lady , she could hardly be supposed to have set out alone and on foot when all the house was asleep . 
Still , away she must have gone , for , of course , if she was so powerful , she would always be about the princess to take care of her . 
There were no others to whom he could have talked about it . 
At the same time I do not think he was ever so stupid as to imagine that this was a sign of superior faculty and strength of mind . 
Still , he was becoming more and more a miner , and less and less a man of the upper world where the wind blew . 
On his way to and from the mine he took less and less notice of bees and butterflies , moths and dragonflies , the flowers and the brooks and the clouds . 
He was gradually changing into a commonplace man . 
There is this difference between the growth of some human beings and that of others in the one case it is a continuous dying , in the other a continuous resurrection . 
Curdie was not in a very good way , then , at that time . 
The boy should enclose and keep , as his life , the old child at the heart of him , and never let it go . 
He must still , to be a right man , be his mother's darling , and more , his father's pride , and more . 
The child is not meant to die , but to be forever fresh born . 
Curdie had made himself a bow and some arrows , and was teaching himself to shoot with them . 
One evening in the early summer , as he was walking home from the mine with them in his hand , a light flashed across his eyes . 
He looked , and there was a snow white pigeon settling on a rock in front of him , in the red light of the level sun . 
It was indeed a lovely being , and Curdie thought how happy it must be flitting through the air with a flash a live bolt of light . 
With a gush of pride at his skill , and pleasure at his success , he ran to pick up his prey . 
I must say for him he picked it up gently perhaps it was the beginning of his repentance . 
Then they closed , but to open again presently , with the same questions in them . 
And as they closed and opened , their look was fixed on his . 
It did not once flutter or try to get away it only throbbed and bled and looked at him . 
Curdie's heart began to grow very large in his bosom . 
A good many discoveries of a similar kind have to be made by most of us . 
Once more it opened its eyes then closed them again , and its throbbing ceased . 
Curdie gave a sob its last look reminded him of the princess he did not know why . 
Was the whole world going to make a work about a pigeon a white pigeon ? The sun went down . 
Great clouds gathered over the west , and shortened the twilight . 
The wind gave a howl , and then lay down again . 
He thought it was thunder . 
It was a rock that fell inside the mountain . 
A goat ran past him down the hill , followed by a dog sent to fetch him home . 
He thought they were goblin creatures , and trembled . 
He used to despise them . 
And still he held the dead pigeon tenderly in his hand . 
It grew darker and darker . 
An evil something began to move in his heart . 
'What a fool I am ! he said to himself . 
Then he grew angry , and was just going to throw the bird from him and whistle , when a brightness shone all round him . 
He lifted his eyes , and saw a great globe of light like silver at the hottest heat he had once seen silver run from the furnace . 
'It's not dead ! cried Curdie , almost with a shriek . 
The same instant he was running full speed toward the castle , never letting his heels down , lest he should shake the poor , wounded bird . 
CHAPTER The Mistress of the Silver Moon When Curdie reached the castle , and ran into the little garden in front of it , there stood the door wide open . 
So the front door was left open for him , and in he walked . 
But where to go next he could not tell . 
It was not quite dark a dull , shineless twilight filled the place . 
All he knew was that he must go up , and that proved enough for the present , for there he saw the great staircase rising before him . 
When he reached the top of it , he knew there must be more stairs yet , for he could not be near the top of the tower . 
Indeed by the situation of the stairs , he must be a good way from the tower itself . 
He knew its outside perfectly , and now his business was to get his notion of the inside right with the outside . 
So he shut his eyes and made a picture of the outside of it in his mind . 
On his way , however , he came to another stair , and up that he went , of course , watching still at every turn how the tower must lie . 
But at present Curdie had nothing to do with today or tomorrow his business was with the bird , and the tower where dwelt the grand old princess to whom it belonged . 
So he kept on his way , still eastward , and came to yet another passage , which brought him to a door . 
He was afraid to open it without first knocking . 
He knocked , but heard no answer . 
And it was a long climb , but he reached the top at last a little landing , with a door in front and one on each side . 
Which should he knock at ? As he hesitated , he heard the noise of a spinning wheel . 
He knew it at once , because his mother's spinning wheel had been his governess long ago , and still taught him things . 
But suddenly came the thought of the poor bird , which had been lying motionless in his hand all the time , and that woke him up , and at once he knocked . 
'Come in , Curdie , said a voice . 
It was getting rather awful . 
The heart that had never much heeded an army of goblins trembled at the soft word of invitation . 
But then there was the red spotted white thing in his hand ! He dared not hesitate , though . 
He stood and stared at it , forgetting to shut the door . 
'Why don't you come in , Curdie ? said the voice . 
'Did you never see moonlight before ? 'Never without a moon , answered Curdie , in a trembling tone , but gathering courage . 
'Certainly not , returned the voice , which was thin and quavering 'I never saw moonlight without a moon . 
'But there's no moon outside , said Curdie . 
'Ah ! but you're inside now , said the voice . 
The answer did not satisfy Curdie but the voice went on . 
'There are more moons than you know of , Curdie . 
Where there is one sun there are many moons and of many sorts . 
Come in and look out of my window , and you will soon satisfy yourself that there is a moon looking in at it . 
The gentleness of the voice made Curdie remember his manners . 
He shut the door , and drew a step or two nearer to the moonlight . 
All the time the sound of the spinning had been going on and on , and Curdie now caught sight of the wheel . 
Oh , it was such a thin , delicate thing reminding him of a spider's web in a hedge . 
It stood in the middle of the moonlight , and it seemed as if the moonlight had nearly melted it away . 
A step nearer , he saw , with a start , two little hands at work with it . 
Her grey hair mixed with the moonlight so that he could not tell where the one began and the other ended . 
But that moment the little lady leaned forward into the moonlight , and Curdie caught a glimpse of her eyes , and all the laugh went out of him . 
'What do you come here for , Curdie ? she said , as gently as before . 
Then Curdie remembered that he stood there as a culprit , and worst of all , as one who had his confession yet to make . 
There was no time to hesitate over it . 
'Oh , ma'am ! See here , he said , and advanced a step or two , holding out the pigeon . 
'What have you got there ? she asked . 
Again Curdie advanced a few steps , and held out his hand with the pigeon , that she might see what it was , into the moonlight . 
The moment the rays fell upon it the pigeon gave a faint flutter . 
The old lady put out her old hands and took it , and held it to her bosom , and rocked it , murmuring over it as if it were a sick baby . 
When Curdie saw how distressed she was he grew sorrier still , and said 'I didn't mean to do any harm , ma'am . 
I didn't think of its being yours . 
'Ah , Curdie ! If it weren't mine , what would become of it now ? she returned . 
'You say you didn't mean any harm did you mean any good , Curdie ? 'No , answered Curdie . 
'Remember , then , that whoever does not mean good is always in danger of harm . 
Therefore I say for you that when you shot that arrow you did not know what a pigeon is . 
Now that you do know , you are sorry . 
It is very dangerous to do things you don't know about . 
'There you are much mistaken , said the old quavering voice . 
'How little you must have thought ! Why , you don't seem even to know the good of the things you are constantly doing . 
I don't mean you are good for doing them . 
It is a good thing to eat your breakfast , but you don't fancy it's very good of you to do it . 
The thing is good , not you . 
'There are a great many more good things than bad things to do . 
Now tell me what bad thing you have done today besides this sore hurt to my little white friend . 
While she talked Curdie had sunk into a sort of reverie , in which he hardly knew whether it was the old lady or his own heart that spoke . 
And when she asked him that question , he was at first much inclined to consider himself a very good fellow on the whole . 
'I really don't think I did anything else that was very bad all day , he said to himself . 
But at the same time he could not honestly feel that he was worth standing up for . 
'Thank you , ma'am , for spinning it into me with your wheel . 
When I killed your bird I did not know I was doing wrong , just because I was always doing wrong , and the wrong had soaked all through me . 
'I was doing the wrong of never wanting or trying to be better . 
And now I see that I have been letting things go as they would for a long time . 
Whatever came into my head I did , and whatever didn't come into my head I didn't do . 
I never sent anything away , and never looked out for anything to come . 
I haven't been attending to my mother or my father either . 
And now I think of it , I know I have often seen them looking troubled , and I have never asked them what was the matter . 
And now I see , too , that I did not ask because I suspected it had something to do with me and my behaviour , and didn't want to hear the truth . 
And I know I have been grumbling at my work , and doing a hundred other things that are wrong . 
'You have got it , Curdie , said the old lady , in a voice that sounded almost as if she had been crying . 
'When people don't care to be better they must be doing everything wrong . 
I am so glad you shot my bird ! 'Ma'am ! exclaimed Curdie . 
Now that you are sorry , my poor bird will be better . 
Look up , my dovey . 
The pigeon gave a flutter , and spread out one of its red spotted wings across the old woman's bosom . 
'I will mend the little angel , she said , 'and in a week or two it will be flying again . 
So you may ease your heart about the pigeon . 
'Oh , thank you ! Thank you ! cried Curdie . 
'I don't know how to thank you . 
'Then I will tell you . 
There is only one way I care for . 
Do better , and grow better , and be better . 
And never kill anything without a good reason for it . 
'Ma'am , I will go and fetch my bow and arrows , and you shall burn them yourself . 
'I have no fire that would burn your bow and arrows , Curdie . 
'Then I promise you to burn them all under my mother's porridge pot tomorrow morning . 
'No , no , Curdie . 
Keep them , and practice with them every day , and grow a good shot . 
There are plenty of bad things that want killing , and a day will come when they will prove useful . 
But I must see first whether you will do as I tell you . 
'That I will ! said Curdie . 
'What is it , ma'am ? 'Only something not to do , answered the old lady 'if you should hear anyone speak about me , never to laugh or make fun of me . 
'Oh , ma'am ! exclaimed Curdie , shocked that she should think such a request needful . 
'Stop , stop , she went on . 
'People hereabout sometimes tell very odd and in fact ridiculous stories of an old woman who watches what is going on , and occasionally interferes . 
They mean me , though what they say is often great nonsense . 
Now that would not be the case would it , Curdie ? 'No , indeed , ma'am . 
The old woman smiled very oddly . 
'Yes , you've seen me , she said . 
'But mind , she continued , 'I don't want you to say anything only to hold your tongue , and not seem to side with them . 
'That will be easy , 'said Curdie , 'now that I've seen you with my very own eyes , ma'am . 
'Not so easy as you think , perhaps , said the old lady , with another curious smile . 
'I want to be your friend , she added after a little pause , 'but I don't quite know yet whether you will let me . 
'Indeed I will , ma'am , said Curdie . 
'That is for me to find out , she rejoined , with yet another strange smile . 
I am greatly pleased with you for bringing me my pigeon , doing your best to set right what you had set wrong . 
Every trace of the decrepitude and witheredness she showed as she hovered like a film about her wheel , had vanished . 
Her hair was very white , but it hung about her head in great plenty , and shone like silver in the moonlight . 
'Oh , now I can never forget you ! cried Curdie . 
'I see now what you really are ! 'Did I not tell you the truth when I sat at my wheel ? said the old lady . 
'Yes , ma'am , answered Curdie . 
'I can do no more than tell you the truth now , she rejoined . 
'It is a bad thing indeed to forget one who has told us the truth . 
Curdie obeyed , and took a few steps toward the door . 
'Please , ma'am what am I to call you ? he was going to say but when he turned to speak , he saw nobody . 
Whether she was there or not he could not tell , however , for the moonlight had vanished , and the room was utterly dark . 
A great fear , such as he had never before known , came upon him , and almost overwhelmed him . 
He groped his way to the door , and crawled down the stair in doubt and anxiety as to how he should find his way out of the house in the dark . 
And the stair seemed ever so much longer than when he came up . 
He soon discovered the way out of the garden , with which he had some acquaintance already , and in a few minutes was climbing the mountain with a solemn and cheerful heart . 
It was rather dark , but he knew the way well . 
Some dark shadows passed him he did not even care to think what they were , but let them run . 
When he reached home , he found his father and mother waiting supper for him . 
There was a change upon Curdie , and father and mother felt there must be something to account for it , and therefore were pretty sure he had something to tell them . 
For when a child's heart is all right , it is not likely he will want to keep anything from his parents . 
But the story of the evening was too solemn for Curdie to come out with all at once . 
He must wait until they had had their porridge , and the affairs of this world were over for the day . 
It was perhaps the loveliest of all hours in the year . 
It is a way the night has sometimes , and there is a reason for it . 
What a world had slipped in between the mouth of the mine and his mother's cottage ! Neither of them said a word until he had ended . 
'Now what am I to make of it , Mother ? it's so strange ! he said , and stopped . 
'it seems so to me , answered Peter , with a smile which only the night saw , but his wife felt in the tone of his words . 
'Then will you tell Curdie ? said she . 
'You can talk best , Joan , said he . 
'You tell him , and I will listen and learn how to say what I think , he added . 
'I , said Curdie , 'don't know what to think . 
'it does not matter so much , said his mother . 
'If only you know what to make of a thing , you'll know soon enough what to think of it . 
It is a very strange story , but you see the question is not about believing it , for Curdie knows what came to him . 
According to your eyes , that was all there was in the great , old , musty garret . 
But now you have had a glimpse of the old princess herself ! 'Yes , Mother , I did see her or if I didn't said Curdie very thoughtfully then began again . 
She was taller and stronger than you , Mother , ever so much ! at least , she looked so . 
'And most certainly was so , Curdie , if she looked so , said Mrs Peterson . 
I only think how wonderful and lovely it all is . 
It seems just as full of reason as it is of wonder . 
'Still , said Curdie , looking a little ashamed , 'I might have dreamed my duty . 
'Then dream often , my son for there must then be more truth in your dreams than in your waking thoughts . 
But however any of these things may be , this one point remains certain there can be no harm in doing as she told you . 
And , indeed , until you are sure there is no such person , you are bound to do it , for you promised . 
'True , Father ! Yes , Mother , I'll do it , said Curdie . 
Then they went to bed , and sleep , which is the night of the soul , next took them in its arms and made them well . 
Their wives and mothers and grandmothers were their chief authorities . 
At length they came to speak of a certain strange being they called Old Mother Wotherwop . 
Some said their wives had seen her . 
It appeared as they talked that not one had seen her more than once . 
Some of their mothers and grandmothers , however , had seen her also , and they all had told them tales about her when they were children . 
And whoever for months after drank of that well was sure to be ill . 
To this , one of them , however , added that he remembered his mother saying that whoever in bad health drank of the well was sure to get better . 
Peter ventured the question whether she might not as likely be an angel that took the form of an old woman , as an old woman that took the form of an angel . 
But nobody except Curdie , who was holding his peace with all his might , saw any sense in the question . 
They answered , because she was bad . 
He asked why they believed her to be bad , and they answered , because she did bad things . 
When he asked how they knew that , they said , because she was a bad creature . 
Even if they didn't know it , they said , a woman like that was so much more likely to be bad than good . 
She dragged him into a bog , and tumbled him up and down in it till he was nearly dead . 
'I suppose that was her way of teaching him what a good thing water was , said Peter but the man , who liked strong drink , did not see the joke . 
'They do say , said another , 'that she has lived in the old house over there ever since the little princess left it . 
They say too that the housekeeper knows all about it , and is hand and glove with the old witch . 
I don't doubt they have many a nice airing together on broomsticks . 
But I don't doubt either it's all nonsense , and there's no such person at all . 
'When our cow died , said another , 'she was seen going round and round the cowhouse the same night . 
To be sure she left a fine calf behind her I mean the cow did , not the witch . 
I wonder she didn't kill that , too , for she'll be a far finer cow than ever her mother was . 
When they saw my wife they all scampered off as fast as they could run , and where the witch was sitting there was nothing to be seen but a withered bracken bush . 
I made no doubt myself she was putting them up to it . 
And so they went on with one foolish tale after another , while Peter put in a word now and then , and Curdie diligently held his peace . 
'Because you're not saying anything . 
'Does it follow then that , as you are saying so much , you're not thinking at all ? said Curdie . 
'But would she like it any better if it were true ? said the same man . 
'If she is What they say I don't know but I never knew a man that wouldn't go in a rage to be called the very thing he was . 
They all burst into a loud laugh . 
'Hear the parson ! they cried . 
Thus they all mocked and jeered at him , but he did his best to keep his temper and go quietly on with his work . 
He got as close to his father as he could , however , for that helped him to bear it . 
As soon as they were tired of laughing and mocking , Curdie was friendly with them , and long before their midday meal all between them was as it had been . 
They had just risen and were turning to the right , when a gleam caught their eyes , and made them look along the whole gallery . 
Far up they saw a pale green light , whence issuing they could not tell , about halfway between floor and roof of the passage . 
It shed hardly any light around it , although in itself it was so bright as to sting the eyes that beheld it . 
They went up the old gallery to find out what it could be . 
To their surprise they found , however , that , after going some distance , they were no nearer to it , so far as they could judge , than when they started . 
It did not seem to move , and yet they moving did not approach it . 
Still they persevered , for it was far too wonderful a thing to lose sight of , so long as they could keep it . 
At length they drew near the hollow where the water lay , and still were no nearer the light . 
And Curdie felt a great awe swell up in his heart , for he thought he had seen those eyes before . 
'I see you know me , Curdie , said a voice . 
'if your eyes are you , ma'am , then I know you , said Curdie . 
'But I never saw your face before . 
'Yes , you have seen it , Curdie , said the voice . 
it looked as if it were pouring down from her head , and , like the water of the Dustbrook , vanishing in a golden vapour ere it reached the floor . 
It came flowing from under the edge of a coronet of gold , set with alternated pearls and emeralds . 
In front of the crown was a great emerald , which looked somehow as if out of it had come the light they had followed . 
She looked about five and twenty years old . 
By this time all around them had grown light , and now first they could see where they were . 
They stood in a great splendid cavern , which Curdie recognized as that in which the goblins held their state assemblies . 
Turning from the first glance at the circuadjacent splendour , it dwindled into nothing as he looked again at the lady . 
Nothing flashed or glowed or shone about her , and yet it was with a prevision of the truth that he said , 'I was here once before , ma'am . 
'I know that , Curdie , she replied . 
'The place was full of torches , and the walls gleamed , but nothing as they do now , and there is no light in the place . 
'You want to know where the light comes from ? she said , smiling . 
'Then see I will go out of the cavern . 
Do not be afraid , but watch . 
CHAPTER What Is in a Name ? For a time that seemed to them long , the two men stood waiting , while still the Mother of Light did not return . 
And still she who with her absence darkened their air did not return . 
They grew weary , and sat down on the rocky floor , for wait they would indeed , wait they must . 
Each set his lamp by his knee , and watched it die . 
Slowly it sank , dulled , looked lazy and stupid . 
But ever as it sank and dulled , the image in his mind of the Lady of Light grew stronger and clearer . 
Together the two lamps panted and shuddered . 
First one , then the other went out , leaving for a moment a great , red , evil smelling snuff . 
Then all was the blackness of darkness up to their very hearts and everywhere around them . 
Was it ? No. Far away it looked miles away shone one minute faint point of green light where , who could tell ? They only knew that it shone . 
it grew larger , and seemed to draw nearer , until at last , as they watched with speechless delight and expectation , it seemed once more within reach of an outstretched hand . 
The moment they saw the speck in the vast distance they had risen and stood on their feet . 
When it came nearer they bowed their heads . 
Yet now they looked with fearless eyes , for the woman that was old yet young was a joy to see , and filled their hearts with reverent delight . 
She turned first to Peter . 
'I have known you long , she said . 
'I have met you going to and from the mine , and seen you working in it for the last forty years . 
'I am poor as well as rich , said she . 
'I , too , work for my bread , and I show myself no favour when I pay myself my own wages . 
I am always about , as the miners said the other night when they talked of me as Old Mother Wotherwop . 
The lovely lady laughed , and her laugh was a lightning of delight in their souls . 
'Yes , she went on , 'you have got to thank me that you are so poor , Peter . 
I have seen to that , and it has done well for both you and me , my friend . 
Things come to the poor that can't get in at the door of the rich . 
Their money somehow blocks it up . 
You must not mistake , however , and imagine it a virtue it is but a privilege , and one also that , like other privileges , may be terribly misused . 
Had you been rich , my Peter , you would not have been so good as some rich men I know . 
And now I am going to tell you what no one knows but myself you , Peter , and your wife both have the blood of the royal family in your veins . 
I have been trying to cultivate your family tree , every branch of which is known to me , and I expect Curdie to turn out a blossom on it . 
Therefore I have been training him for a work that must soon be done . 
I was near losing him , and had to send my pigeon . 
Had he not shot it , that would have been better but he repented , and that shall be as good in the end . 
She turned to Curdie and smiled . 
'Ma'am , said Curdie , 'may I ask questions ? 'Why not , Curdie ? 'Because I have been told , ma'am , that nobody must ask the king questions . 
'The king never made that law , she answered , with some displeasure . 
'You may ask me as many as you please that is , so long as they are sensible . 
Only I may take a few thousand years to answer some of them . 
Of all things time is the cheapest . 
What it means is true . 
The lady stooped toward a large green stone bedded in the rock of the floor , and looking like a well of grassy light in it . 
She laid hold of it with her fingers , broke it out , and gave it to Peter . 
Twenty men could not have done that . 
And your fingers are white and smooth as any lady's in the land . 
I don't know what to make of it . 
'I could give you twenty names more to call me , Curdie , and not one of them would be a false one . 
What does it matter how many names if the person is one ? 'Ah ! But it is not names only , ma'am . 
Look at what you were like last night , and what I see you now ! 'Shapes are only dresses , Curdie , and dresses are only names . 
That which is inside is the same all the time . 
'But then how can all the shapes speak the truth ? 'it would want thousands more to speak the truth , Curdie and then they could not . 
But there is a point I must not let you mistake about . 
It is one thing the shape I choose to put on , and quite another the shape that foolish talk and nursery tale may please to put upon me . 
Also , it is one thing what you or your father may think about me , and quite another what a foolish or bad man may see in me . 
I should be all the same , but his evil eyes would see me as I was not . 
'I think I understand , said Curdie . 
'Peter , said the lady , turning then to him , 'you will have to give up Curdie for a little while . 
'So long as he loves us , ma'am , that will not matter much . 
'Ah ! you are right there , my friend , said the beautiful princess . 
And as she said it she put out her hand , and took the hard , horny hand of the miner in it , and held it for a moment lovingly . 
'I need say no more , she added , 'for we understand each other you and I , Peter . 
The tears came into Peter's eyes . 
He bowed his head in thankfulness , and his heart was much too full to speak . 
Then the great old , young , beautiful princess turned to Curdie . 
'Now , Curdie , are you ready ? she said . 
'Yes , ma'am , answered Curdie . 
'You do not know what for . 
'You could not have given me a better answer , or done more to prepare yourself , Curdie , she returned , with one of her radiant smiles . 
'Do you think you will know me again ? 'I think so . 
You must know me in quite another way from that . 
It would not be the least use to you or me either if I were to make you know me in that way . 
It would be but to know the sign of Me not to know me myself . 
Much good that would do you , Curdie ! No you must do what you can to know me , and if you do , you will . 
You shall see me again in very different circumstances from these , and , I will tell you so much , it may be in a very different shape . 
But come now , I will lead you out of this cavern my good Joan will be getting too anxious about you . 
As she spoke she turned and led the way from the cavern , which , as if a door had been closed , sank into absolute blackness behind them . 
Out they came into the cool , blessed night . 
It was very late , and only starlight . 
To their surprise , three paces away they saw , seated upon a stone , an old country woman , in a cloak which they took for black . 
When they came close up to it , they saw it was red . 
'Good evening ! said Peter . 
'Good evening ! returned the old woman , in a voice as old as herself . 
But Curdie took off his cap and said 'I am your servant , Princess . 
The old woman replied 'Come to me in the dove tower tomorrow night , Curdie alone . 
'I will , ma'am , said Curdie . 
So they parted , and father and son went home to wife and mother two persons in one rich , happy woman . 
CHAPTER Curdie's Mission The next night Curdie went home from the mine a little earlier than usual , to make himself tidy before going to the dove tower . 
The princess had not appointed an exact time for him to be there he would go as near the time he had gone first as he could . 
On his way to the bottom of the hill , he met his father coming up . 
The sun was then down , and the warm first of the twilight filled the evening . 
He came rather wearily up the hill the road , he thought , must have grown steeper in parts since he was Curdie's age . 
It is greed and laziness and selfishness , not hunger or weariness or cold , that take the dignity out of a man , and make him look mean . 
'Ah , Curdie ! There you are ! he said , seeing his son come bounding along as if it were morning with him and not evening . 
'You look tired , Father , said Curdie . 
I'm not so young as you . 
'Nor so old as the princess , said Curdie . 
'Tell me this , said Peter , 'why do people talk about going downhill when they begin to get old ? It seems to me that then first they begin to go uphill . 
'Nobody can tell when that will be , returned Peter . 
'We're so ready to think we're just at the top when it lies miles away . 
'I think she will , for she knows there is nobody more to be trusted than my father and mother , said Curdie , with pride . 
There he met an unexpected obstruction in the open door stood the housekeeper , and she seemed to broaden herself out until she almost filled the doorway . 
'You forget , ma'am , that it is the king's house . 
'That is all the same . 
'Insolent fellow ! exclaimed the housekeeper . 
'Don't you see by my dress that I am in the king's service ? 'And am I not one of his miners ? 'Ah ! that goes for nothing . 
I am one of his household . 
You are an out of doors labourer . 
I carry the keys at my girdle . 
See ! 'But you must not call one a nobody to whom the king has spoken , said Curdie . 
Curdie came a pace nearer . 
Ere one of them could answer , however , she gave a great shriek and turned and fled , leaving the door wide open . 
Its eyes were flaming with anger , but it seemed to be at the housekeeper , for it came cowering and creeping up and laid its head on the ground at Curdie's feet . 
Without halt or hindrance , though the passages were nearly dark , he reached the door of the princess's workroom , and knocked . 
'Come in , said the voice of the princess . 
Curdie opened the door but , to his astonishment , saw no room there . 
'I would at once , ma'am , said Curdie , 'if I were sure I was standing at your door . 
'Why should you doubt it , Curdie ? 'Because I see neither walls nor floor , only darkness and the great sky . 
'That is all right , Curdie . 
Curdie stepped forward at once . 
So he stepped straight in I will not say without a little tremble at the thought of finding no floor beneath his foot . 
But that which had need of the floor found it , and his foot was satisfied . 
No sooner was he in than he saw that the great revolving wheel in the sky was the princess's spinning wheel , near the other end of the room , turning very fast . 
And Curdie listened and listened . 
'What is it saying ? asked the voice . 
'It is singing , answered Curdie . 
'What is it singing ? Curdie tried to make out , but thought he could not for no sooner had he got hold of something than it vanished again . 
Yet he listened , and listened , entranced with delight . 
'Thank you , Curdie , said the voice . 
'Ma'am , said Curdie , 'I did try hard for a while , but I could not make anything of it . 
But for the voice that sang through it all , about that I have no words to tell . 
It would make you weep if I were able to tell you what that was like , it was so beautiful and true and lovely . 
The ocean in music rolls , And gems are turning to eyes , And the trees are gathering souls For the day when the sleepers shall rise . 
The weepers are learning to smile , And laughter to glean the sighs Burn and bury the care and guile , For the day when the sleepers shall rise . 
And her laugh was sweeter than song and wheel sweeter than running brook and silver bell sweeter than joy itself , for the heart of the laugh was love . 
It was some time before Curdie could take his eyes from the marvel of her loveliness . 
The smell of the roses filled the air , and the heat of the flames of them glowed upon his face . 
'It needs only trust and obedience , answered the lady . 
'I dare not say anything , ma'am . 
If you think me fit , command me . 
'it will hurt you terribly , Curdie , but that will be all no real hurt but much good will come to you from it . 
Curdie made no answer but stood gazing with parted lips in the lady's face . 
'Go and thrust both your hands into that fire , she said quickly , almost hurriedly . 
Curdie dared not stop to think . 
It was much too terrible to think about . 
He rushed to the fire , and thrust both of his hands right into the middle of the heap of flaming roses , and his arms halfway up to the elbows . 
And it did hurt ! But he did not draw them back . 
He held the pain as if it were a thing that would kill him if he let it go as indeed it would have done . 
He was in terrible fear lest it should conquer him . 
At last it ceased altogether , and Curdie thought his hands must be burned to cinders if not ashes , for he did not feel them at all . 
The princess told him to take them out and look at them . 
He did so , and found that all that was gone of them was the rough , hard skin they were white and smooth like the princess's . 
'Come to me , she said . 
He obeyed and saw , to his surprise , that her face looked as if she had been weeping . 
'Oh , Princess ! What is the matter ? he cried . 
'Did I make a noise and vex you ? 'No , Curdie , she answered 'but it was very bad . 
'Did you feel it too then ? 'Of course I did . 
But now it is over , and all is well . 
'No , Curdie , answered the princess , shaking her head , for she was not pleased with the answer . 
'It would be a poor way of making your hands fit for the king's court to take off them signs of his service . 
There is a far greater difference on them than that . 
Do you feel none ? 'No , ma'am . 
'You will , though , by and by , when the time comes . 
But perhaps even then you might not know what had been given you , therefore I will tell you . 
Have you ever heard what some philosophers say that men were all animals once ? 'No , ma'am . 
'it is of no consequence . 
People knew it once , but it is long since they forgot it . 
'I am not surprised to hear it , ma'am , when I think of some of our miners . 
'Ah ! But you must beware , Curdie , how you say of this man or that man that he is travelling beastward . 
There are not nearly so many going that way as at first sight you might think . 
I did not say you can never know . 
Neither can their best friends , or their worst enemies indeed , see any difference in their hands , for they see only the living gloves of them . 
But there are not a few who feel a vague something repulsive in the hand of a man who is growing a beast . 
According , then , to your knowledge of that beast will be your knowledge of the man you have to do with . 
'How dreadful ! Said Curdie . 
'I must mind what I am about . 
'Yes , indeed , Curdie . 
'But may not one sometimes make a mistake without being able to help it ? 'Yes . 
But so long as he is not after his own ends , he will never make a serious mistake . 
To such a person there is in general no insult like the truth . 
He cannot endure it , not because he is growing a beast , but because he is ceasing to be a man . 
'Why then , ma'am , shouldn't she have it ? The princess held her peace . 
'Come here , Lina , she said after a long pause . 
She had a very short body , and very long legs made like an elephant's , so that in lying down she kneeled with both pairs . 
Her tail , which dragged on the floor behind her , was twice as long and quite as thick as her body . 
Her head was something between that of a polar bear and a snake . 
Her eyes were dark green , with a yellow light in them . 
Her under teeth came up like a fringe of icicles , only very white , outside of her upper lip . 
Her throat looked as if the hair had been plucked off . 
it showed a skin white and smooth . 
'Give Curdie a paw , Lina , said the princess . 
The creature rose , and , lifting a long foreleg , held up a great doglike paw to Curdie . 
She was watching him with evident satisfaction . 
'Ma'am , here is a child's hand ! said Curdie . 
'Your gift does more for you than it promised . 
It is yet better to perceive a hidden good than a hidden evil . 
'I am not going to answer any more questions this evening , interrupted the princess . 
'You have not half got to the bottom of the answers I have already given you . 
That paw in your hand now might almost teach you the whole science of natural history the heavenly sort , I mean . 
'I will think , said Curdie . 
'They shall see that I believe it all this time , said Curdie . 
'Tell them that tomorrow morning you must set out for the court not like a great man , but just as poor as you are . 
They had better not speak about it . 
Tell them also that it will be a long time before they hear of you again , but they must not lose heart . 
As often as he gets at all anxious about you , he must take it and lay it in the fire , and leave it there when he goes to bed . 
'Yes , ma'am , said Curdie . 
'Please , am I to go now ? 'Yes , answered the princess , and held out her hand to him . 
Curdie took it , trembling with joy . 
It was a very beautiful hand not small , very smooth , but not very soft and just the same to his fire taught touch that it was to his eyes . 
He would have stood there all night holding it if she had not gently withdrawn it . 
'I will provide you a servant , she said , 'for your journey and to wait upon you afterward . 
I go without a notion whether I am to walk this way or that , or what I am to do when I get I don't know where . 
You must learn to use far less direct directions than that . 
You must not be like a dull servant that needs to be told again and again before he will understand . 
You have orders enough to start with , and you will find , as you go on , and as you need to know , what you have to do . 
But I warn you that perhaps it will not look the least like what you may have been fancying I should require of you . 
I have one idea of you and your work , and you have another . 
I do not blame you for that you cannot help it yet but you must be ready to let my idea , which sets you working , set your idea right . 
The young miner bowed his head low , patted the strange head that lay at the princess's feet , and turned away . 
CHAPTER Hands Curdie went home , pondering much , and told everything to his father and mother . 
As the old princess had said , it was now their turn to find what they heard hard to believe . 
For he had nothing conclusive to show in proof of what he told them . 
His father could not see any difference upon his hands , but then it was night , he said , and their poor little lamp was not enough for his old eyes . 
'Here , Curdie , said his mother , 'try my hand , and see what beast's paw lies inside it . 
'No , Mother , answered Curdie , half beseeching , half indignant , 'I will not insult my new gift by making pretence to try it . 
There is no hand within yours but the hand of a true woman , my mother . 
'I should like you just to take hold of my hand though , said his mother . 
'You are my son , and may know all the bad there is in me . 
Then at once Curdie took her hand in his . 
And when he had it , he kept it , stroking it gently with his other hand . 
'Mother , he said at length , 'your hand feels just like that of the princess . 
Mine is such an ugly hand I should be ashamed to show it to any but one that loved me . 
'Go away , you flatterer , said his mother , with a smile that showed how she prized the love that lay beneath what she took for its hyperbole . 
The praise even which one cannot accept is sweet from a true mouth . 
'If that is all your new gift can do , it won't make a warlock of you , she added . 
'Mother , it tells me nothing but the truth , insisted Curdie , 'however unlike the truth it may seem . 
it wants no gift to tell what anybody's outside hands are like . 
But by it I know your inside hands are like the princess's . 
'And I am sure the boy speaks true , said Peter . 
'He only says about your hand what I have known ever so long about yourself , Joan . 
And I can tell you more , Curdie . 
I will try to tell you what I mean , Curdie . 
Wife , the boy is in the right about your hand . 
'Now , Father , let me feel yours , said Curdie , daring a little more . 
'No , no , my boy , answered Peter . 
'I don't want to hear anything about my hand or my head or my heart . 
I am what I am , and I hope growing better , and that's enough . 
No , you shan't feel my hand . 
You must go to bed , for you must start with the sun . 
As the princess had said he was to go like the poor man he was , Curdie came down in the morning from his little loft dressed in his working clothes . 
Then his father gave him a stick he had cut for him in the wood , and he bade them good bye rather hurriedly , for he was afraid of breaking down . 
As he went out he caught up his mattock and took it with him . 
It had on the one side a pointed curve of strong steel for loosening the earth and the ore , and on the other a steel hammer for breaking the stones and rocks . 
just as he crossed the threshold the sun showed the first segment of his disc above the horizon . 
Not until he had reached the king's house was it any use to turn northwards . 
On and on he fared , and came in a few hours to a country where there were no mountains more only hills , with great stretches of desolate heath . 
'There's a monkey running away from the mines ! they cried . 
Sometimes their parents came out and encouraged them . 
'He doesn't want to find gold for the king any longer the lazybones ! they would say . 
'He'll be well taxed down here though , and he won't like that either . 
But it was little to Curdie that men who did not know what he was about should not approve of his proceedings . 
He gave them a merry answer now and then , and held diligently on his way . 
Once a child fell as he turned to run away after throwing a stone at him . 
He picked him up , kissed him , and carried him to his mother . 
The woman had run out in terror when she saw the strange miner about , as she thought , to take vengeance on her boy . 
When he put him in her arms , she blessed him , and Curdie went on his way rejoicing . 
It was very old and distorted . 
There was not another tree for miles all around . 
Curdie had been so eager to get on that he had eaten nothing since his breakfast . 
But he had had plenty of water , for Many little streams had crossed his path . 
He now opened the wallet his mother had given him , and began to eat his supper . 
A few clouds had gathered about the west , but there was not a single cloud anywhere else to be seen . 
Now Curdie did not know that this was a part of the country very hard to get through . 
Nobody lived there , though many had tried to build in it . 
Some rushed out of it . 
Those who stayed longest went raving mad , and died a terrible death . 
Such as walked straight on , and did not spend a night there , got through well and were nothing the worse . 
But those who slept even a single night in it were sure to meet with something they could never forget , and which often left a mark everybody could read . 
And while Curdie ate there came a change . 
It seemed to come from the deathbed of the sun , dying in fever and ague . 
But just before it reached him , down from its four long legs it dropped flat on the ground , and came crawling towards him , wagging a huge tail as it came . 
CHAPTER Lina IT was Lina . 
All at once Curdie recognized her the frightful creature he had seen at the princess's . 
He dropped his pickaxes and held out his hand . 
She crept nearer and nearer , and laid her chin in his palm , and he patted her ugly head . 
Then she crept away behind the tree , and lay down , panting hard . 
Curdie did not much like the idea of her being behind him . 
Horrible as she was to look at , she seemed to his mind more horrible when he was not looking at her . 
But he remembered the child's hand , and never thought of driving her away . 
Now and then he gave a glance behind him , and there she lay flat , with her eyes closed and her terrible teeth gleaming between her two huge forepaws . 
After his supper and his long day's journey it was no wonder Curdie should now be sleepy . 
Since the sun set the air had been warm and pleasant . 
He lay down under the tree , closed his eyes , and thought to sleep . 
He found himself mistaken , however . 
But although he could not sleep , he was yet aware of resting delightfully . 
Presently he heard a sweet sound of singing somewhere , such as he had never heard before a singing as of curious birds far off , which drew nearer and nearer . 
At length he heard their wings , and , opening his eyes , saw a number of very large birds , as it seemed , alighting around him , still singing . 
It was strange to hear song from the throats of such big birds . 
And still singing , with large and round but not the less birdlike voices , they began to weave a strange dance about him , moving their wings in time with their legs . 
But the dance seemed somehow to be troubled and broken , and to return upon itself in an eddy , in place of sweeping smoothly on . 
Now curdie liked the birds , and did not altogether like Lina . 
But neither , nor both together , made a reason for driving away the princess's creature . 
Doubtless she had been the goblins' creature , but the last time he saw her was in the king's house and the dove tower , and at the old princess's feet . 
So he left her to do as she would , and the dance of the birds continued only a semicircle , troubled at the edges , and returning upon itself . 
But their song and their motions , nevertheless , and the waving of their wings , began at length to make him very sleepy . 
All the time he had kept doubting whether they could really be birds , and the sleepier he got , the more he imagined them something else , but he suspected no harm . 
Suddenly , just as he was sinking beneath the waves of slumber , he awoke in fierce pain . 
The birds were upon him all over him and had begun to tear him with beaks and claws . 
He had but time , however , to feel that he could not move under their weight , when they set up a hideous screaming , and scattered like a cloud . 
Lina was among them , snapping and striking with her paws , while her tail knocked them over and over . 
He got up and tried to follow , but could see nothing , and after wandering about hither and thither for some time , found himself again beside the hawthorn . 
He feared greatly that the birds had been too much for Lina , and had torn her to pieces . 
In a little while , however , she came limping back , and lay down in her old place . 
Curdie also lay down , but , from the pain of his wounds , there was no sleep for him . 
When the light came he found his clothes a good deal torn and his skin as well , but gladly wondered why the wicked birds had not at once attacked his eyes . 
Then he turned , looking for Lina . 
She rose and crept to him . 
And those worst wounds she could not reach to lick . 
'Poor Lina ! said Curdie , 'you got all those helping me . 
She wagged her tail , and made it clear she understood him . 
Then it flashed upon Curdie's mind that perhaps this was the companion the princess had promised him . 
For the princess did so many things differently from what anybody looked for ! Lina was no beauty certainly , but already , the first night , she had saved his life . 
'Come along , Lina , he said , 'we want water . 
She put her nose to the earth , and after snuffing for a moment , darted off in a straight line . 
The ground was so uneven , that after losing sight of her many times , at last he seemed to have lost her altogether . 
In a few minutes , however , he came upon her waiting for him . 
Instantly she darted off again . 
After he had lost and found her again many times , he found her the last time lying beside a great stone . 
As soon as he came up she began scratching at it with her paws . 
When he had raised it an inch or two , she shoved in first her nose and then her teeth , and lifted with all the might of her neck . 
When at length between them they got it up , there was a beautiful little well . 
He filled his cap with the clearest and sweetest water , and drank . 
Then he gave to Lina , and she drank plentifully . 
Next he washed her wounds very carefully . 
And as he did so , he noted how much the bareness of her neck added to the strange repulsiveness of her appearance . 
He found there was just enough , and the hair so similar in colour to Lina's , that no one could suspect it of having grown somewhere else . 
He took his knife , ripped up the seams of the wallet , and began trying the skin to her neck . 
As his mother had taken care to provide him with needles and thread , he soon had a nice gorget ready for her . 
He laced it on with one of his boot laces , which its long hair covered . 
Poor Lina looked much better in it . 
Nor could any one have called it a piece of finery . 
If ever green eyes with a yellow light in them looked grateful , hers did . 
As they had no longer any bag to carry them in , Curdie and Lina now ate what was left of the provisions . 
Then they set out again upon their journey . 
For seven days it lasted . 
What or how much he could not tell , but clearly she had gathered something from his words . 
CHAPTER More Creatures One day from morning till night they had been passing through a forest . 
As soon as the sun was down Curdie began to be aware that there were more in it than themselves . 
First he saw only the swift rush of a figure across the trees at some distance . 
Then he saw another and then another at shorter intervals . 
Then he saw others both farther off and nearer . 
Presently what seemed a quarrel arose between them , and stranger noises followed , mingled with growling . 
She instantly walked on , and the creature got up and followed her . 
They had not gone far before another strange animal appeared , approaching Lina , when precisely the same thing was repeated , the vanquished animal rising and following with the former . 
To describe them were a hopeless task . 
I knew a boy who used to make animals out of heather roots . 
Wherever he could find four legs , he was pretty sure to find a head and a tail . 
His beasts were a most comic menagerie , and right fruitful of laughter . 
But they were not so grotesque and extravagant as Lina and her followers . 
One of them , for instance , was like a boa constrictor walking on four little stumpy legs near its tail . 
About the same distance from its head were two little wings , which it was forever fluttering as if trying to fly with them . 
Curdie thought it fancied it did fly with them , when it was merely plodding on busily with its four little stumps . 
In this mad fashion it shot ahead , and , a few minutes after , toddled in again among the rest , walking peacefully and somewhat painfully on its few fours . 
From the time it takes to describe one of them it will be readily seen that it would hardly do to attempt a description of each of the forty nine . 
On the contrary , the marvellous vagaries of shape they manifested amused him greatly , and shortened the journey much . 
On they marched solemnly , almost in silence , for either with feet or voice the creatures seldom made any noise . 
By the time they reached the outside of the wood it was morning twilight . 
Into the open trooped the strange torrent of deformity , each one following Lina . 
Suddenly she stopped , turned towards them , and said something which they understood , although to Curdie's ear the sounds she made seemed to have no articulation . 
Instantly they all turned , and vanished in the forest , and Lina alone came trotting lithely and clumsily after her master . 
CHAPTER The Baker's Wife They were now passing through a lovely country of hill and dale and rushing stream . 
The hills were abrupt , with broken chasms for watercourses , and deep little valleys full of trees . 
They came at last to a broad , beautiful river , up which they must go to arrive at the city of Gwyntystorm , where the king had his court . 
As they went the valley narrowed , and then the river , but still it was wide enough for large boats . 
After this , while the river kept its size , the banks narrowed , until there was only room for a road between the river and the great Cliffs that overhung it . 
But the fortifications had long been neglected , for the whole country was now under one king , and all men said there was no more need for weapons or walls . 
The city was prosperous and rich , and if everybody was not comfortable , everybody else said he ought to be . 
When Curdie got up opposite the mighty rock , which sparkled all over with crystals , he found a narrow bridge , defended by gates and portcullis and towers with loopholes . 
Curdie thought it a pity , if only for their old story , that they should be thus neglected . 
But everybody in the city regarded these signs of decay as the best proof of the prosperity of the place . 
Commerce and self interest , they said , had got the better of violence , and the troubles of the past were whelmed in the riches that flowed in at their open gates . 
Indeed , the general theme of discourse when they met was , how much wiser they were than their fathers . 
Curdie crossed the river , and began to ascend the winding road that led up to the city . 
They met a good many idlers , and all stared at them . 
It was no wonder they should stare , but there was an unfriendliness in their looks which Curdie did not like . 
No one , however , offered them any molestation Lina did not invite liberties . 
After a long ascent , they reached the principal gate of the city and entered . 
The street was very steep , ascending toward the palace , which rose in great strength above all the houses . 
But as he ran he stumbled and fell heavily . 
Curdie hastened to help him up , and found he had bruised his forehead badly . 
'Was it your head or your feet that ought to bear the blame of your fall ? asked Curdie . 
'Why , you booby of a miner ! My feet , of course , answered the baker . 
'Nay , then , said Curdie , 'the king can't be to blame . 
'Oh , I see ! said the baker . 
'You're laying a trap for me . 
Of course , if you come to that , it was my head that ought to have looked after my feet . 
But it is the king's part to look after us all , and have his streets smooth . 
'Well , I don't see , said Curdie , 'why the king should take care of the baker , when the baker's head won't take care of the baker's feet . 
'Who are you to make game of the king's baker ? cried the man in a rage . 
Blow after blow he struck until he had levelled it with the street . 
But out flew the barber upon him in a rage . 
'What do you break my window for , you rascal , with your pickaxe ? 'I am very sorry , said Curdie . 
'It must have been a bit of stone that flew from my mattock . 
I couldn't help it , you know . 
'Couldn't help it ! A fine story ! What do you go breaking the rock for the very rock upon which the city stands ? 'Look at your friend's forehead , said Curdie . 
'See what a lump he has got on it with falling over that same stone . 
'What's that to my window ? cried the barber . 
'His forehead can mend itself my poor window can't . 
'But he's the king's baker , said Curdie , more and more surprised at the man's anger . 
'What's that to me ? This is a free city . 
Every man here takes care of himself , and the king takes care of us all . 
I'll have the price of my window out of you , or the exchequer shall pay for it . 
He stooped , picked up a piece of the stone he had just broken , and put it in his pocket . 
'I suppose you are going to break another of my windows with that stone ! said the barber . 
'Oh no , said Curdie . 
'I didn't mean to break your window , and I certainly won't break another . 
'Give me that stone , said the barber . 
Curdie gave it him , and the barber threw it over the city wall . 
'I thought you wanted the stone , said Curdie . 
'No , you fool ! answered the barber . 
'What should I want with a stone ? Curdie stooped and picked up another . 
'Give me that stone , said the barber . 
'You have just told me YOU don't want a stone , and I do . 
The barber took Curdie by the collar . 
'Come , now ! You pay me for that window . 
'How much ? asked Curdie . 
The barber said , 'A crown . 
But the baker , annoyed at the heartlessness of the barber , in thinking more of his broken window than the bump on his friend's forehead , interfered . 
'No , no , he said to Curdie 'don't you pay any such sum . 
A little pane like that cost only a quarter . 
'Well , to be certain , said Curdie , 'I'll give a half . 
For he doubted the baker as well as the barber . 
'Perhaps one day , if he finds he has asked too much , he will bring me the difference . 
'Ha ! ha ! laughed the barber . 
'A fool and his money are soon parted . 
But as he took the coin from Curdie's hand he grasped it in affected reconciliation and real satisfaction . 
In Curdie's , his was the cold smooth leathery palm of a monkey . 
'I'm glad that stone is gone , anyhow , said the baker . 
'It was the bane of my life . 
I had no idea how easy it was to remove it . 
Give me your pickaxes young miner , and I will show you how a baker can make the stones fly . 
He caught the tool out of Curdie's hand , and flew at one of the foundation stones of the gateway . 
But he jarred his arm terribly , scarcely chipped the stone , dropped the mattock with a cry of pain , and ran into his own shop . 
Curdie picked up his implement , and , looking after the baker , saw bread in the window , and followed him in . 
Curdie requested to know the price of a certain good sized loaf . 
Now the baker's wife had been watching what had passed since first her husband ran out of the shop , and she liked the look of Curdie . 
Also she was more honest than her husband . 
Casting a glance to the back door , she replied 'That is not the best bread . 
I will sell you a loaf of what we bake for ourselves . 
And when she had spoken she laid a finger on her lips . 
'Take care of yourself in this place , MY son , she added . 
'They do not love strangers . 
I was once a stranger here , and I know what I say . 
Then fancying she heard her husband , 'That is a strange animal you have , she said , in a louder voice . 
'She is no beauty , but she is very good , and we love each other . 
Don't we , Lina ? Lina looked up and whined . 
Curdie threw her the half of his loaf , which she ate , while her master and the baker's wife talked a little . 
Then the baker's wife gave them some water , and Curdie having paid for his loaf , he and Lina went up the street together . 
CHAPTER The Dogs of Gwyntystorm The steep street led them straight up to a large market place with butchers' shops , about which were many dogs . 
The moment they caught sight of Lina , one and all they came rushing down upon her , giving her no chance of explaining herself . 
When Curdie saw the dogs coming he heaved up his mattock over his shoulder , and was ready , if they would have it so . 
Seeing him thus prepared to defend his follower , a great ugly bulldog flew at him . 
With the first blow Curdie struck him through the brain and the brute fell dead at his feet . 
But he could not at once recover his weapon , which stuck in the skull of his foe , and a huge mastiff , seeing him thus hampered , flew at him next . 
Now Lina , who had shown herself so brave upon the road thither , had grown shy upon entering the city , and kept always at Curdie's heel . 
But it was her turn now . 
The moment she saw her master in danger she seemed to go mad with rage . 
They were the best dogs in the market , after the judgement of the butchers of Gwyntystorm . 
Down came their masters , knives in hand . 
The butchers , not liking the look of either of them or of the dogs at their feet , drew back , and began to remonstrate in the manner of outraged men . 
'Stranger , said the first , 'that bulldog is mine . 
'Take him , then , said Curdie , indignant . 
'You've killed him ! 'Yes else he would have killed me . 
'That's no business of mine . 
'That makes it the more mine , then . 
'This sort of thing won't do , you know , said the other butcher . 
'That's true , said Curdie . 
'That's my mastiff , said the butcher . 
'And as he ought to be , said Curdie . 
'Your brute shall be burned alive for it , said the butcher . 
'Not yet , answered Curdie . 
'We have done no wrong . 
We were walking quietly up your street when your dogs flew at us . 
If you don't teach your dogs how to treat strangers , you must take the consequences . 
'They treat them quite properly , said the butcher . 
'What right has any one to bring an abomination like that into our city ? The horror is enough to make an idiot of every child in the place . 
'We are both subjects of the king , and my poor animal can't help her looks . 
Thereupon the butchers brandished their long knives and advanced , keeping their eyes upon Lina . 
'Don't be afraid , Lina , cried Curdie . 
'I'll kill one you kill the other . 
Lina gave a howl that might have terrified an army , and crouched ready to spring . 
The butchers turned and ran . 
By this time a great crowd had gathered behind the butchers , and in it a number of boys returning from school who began to stone the strangers . 
It was a way they had with man or beast they did not expect to make anything by . 
One of the stones struck Lina she caught it in her teeth and crunched it so that it fell in gravel from her mouth . 
Some of the foremost of the crowd saw this , and it terrified them . 
They drew back the rest took fright from their retreat the panic spread and at last the crowd scattered in all directions . 
They ran , and cried out , and said the devil and his dam were come to Gwyntystorm . 
So Curdie and Lina were left standing unmolested in the market place . 
But all the upper windows within sight of them were crowded with heads watching them where they stood lonely in the deserted market place . 
Curdie looked carefully all round , but could not see one open door . 
But the people in the house , instead of opening the door , threw things at him from the windows . 
They would not listen to a word he said , but sent him back to Lina with the blood running down his face . 
'Lina , he said , 'the people keep their gates open , but their houses and their hearts shut . 
In this house lived a poor old woman , with a grandchild . 
The little one came straight to him , and held up her mouth to be kissed . 
Then she took him by the hand , and drew him toward the house , and Curdie yielded to the silent invitation . 
But when Lina rose to follow , the child shrank from her , frightened a little . 
Curdie took her up , and holding her on one arm , patted Lina with the other hand . 
At the door stood the grandmother to receive them . 
She caught the child to her bosom with delight at her courage , welcomed Curdie , and showed no dread of Lina . 
Many were the significant nods exchanged , and many a one said to another that the devil and the witch were old friends . 
She was not like her fellow townspeople , for that they were strangers recommended them to her . 
The baker and the barber had joined one of these groups , and were busily wagging their tongues against Curdie and his horrible beast . 
'He can't be honest , said the barber 'for he paid me double the worth of the pane he broke in my window . 
And then he told them how Curdie broke his window by breaking a stone in the street with his hammer . 
There the baker struck in . 
Little Barbara sat upon Curdie's knee , and he told her stories about the mines and his adventures in them . 
But he never mentioned the king or the princess , for all that story was hard to believe . 
And he told her about his mother and father , and how good they were . 
And Derba sat and listened . 
At last little Barbara fell asleep in Curdie's arms , and her grandmother carried her to bed . 
It was a poor little house , and Derba gave up her own room to Curdie because he was honest and talked wisely . 
Curdie saw how it was , and begged her to allow him to lie on the floor , but she would not hear of it . 
In the night he was waked by Lina pulling at him . 
As soon as he spoke to her she ceased , and Curdie , listening , thought he heard someone trying to get in . 
Certainly , considering how she had frightened them all in the day , it was not likely any one would attack Lina at night . 
By and by the noises ceased , and Curdie went back to his bed , and slept undisturbed . 
In the morning , however , Derba came to him in great agitation , and said they had fastened up the door , so that she could not get out . 
Poor Derba looked anxiously in Curdie's face . 
'They are much mistaken , he said , 'if they fancy they could keep Lina and a miner in any house in Gwyntystorm even if they built up doors and windows . 
With that he shouldered his mattock . 
But Derba begged him not to make a hole in her house just yet . 
She had plenty for breakfast , she said , and before it was time for dinner they would know what the people meant by it . 
The summons was preceded and followed by flourish of trumpet , and was read with every formality by the city marshal himself . 
The moment he ended , Lina ran into the little passage , and stood opposite the door . 
'I surrender , cried Curdie . 
'Then tie up your brute , and give her here . 
'No , no , cried Curdie through the door . 
'I surrender but I'm not going to do your hangman's work . 
If you want MY dog , you must take her . 
'Then we shall set the house on fire , and burn witch and all . 
'It will go hard with us but we shall kill a few dozen of you first , cried Curdie . 
'We're not the least afraid of you . 
With that Curdie turned to Derba , and said 'Don't be frightened . 
I have a strong feeling that all will be well . 
Surely no trouble will come to you for being good to strangers . 
'But the poor dog ! said Derba . 
'The dog will probably give you reason to think a little more of her ere long , he answered . 
'But now , he went on , 'I fear I must hurt your house a little . 
I have great confidence , however , that I shall be able to make up to you for it one day . 
'Never mind the house , if only you can get safe off , she answered . 
'I don't think they will hurt this precious lamb , she added , clasping little Barbara to her bosom . 
'For myself , it is all one I am ready for anything . 
'it is but a little hole for Lina I want to make , said Curdie . 
'She can creep through a much smaller one than you would think . 
Again he took his mattock , and went to the back wall . 
'They won't burn the house , he said to himself . 
'There is too good a one on each side of it . 
The tumult had kept increasing every moment , and the city marshal had been shouting , but Curdie had not listened to him . 
When now they heard the blows of his mattock , there went up a great cry , and the people taunted the soldiers that they were afraid of a dog and his miner . 
The soldiers therefore made a rush at the door , and cut its fastenings . 
The moment she was gone , Curdie advanced and gave himself up . 
The soldiers were so filled with fear , shame , and chagrin , that they were ready to kill him on the spot . 
Partly for derision , partly to hurt him , they laid his mattock against his back , and tied his arms to it . 
They led him up a very steep street , and up another still , all the crowd following . 
The king's palace castle rose towering above them but they stopped before they reached it , at a low browed door in a great , dull , heavy looking building . 
The city marshal opened it with a key which hung at his girdle , and ordered Curdie to enter . 
The place within was dark as night , and while he was feeling his way with his feet , the marshal gave him a rough push . 
He fell , and rolled once or twice over , unable to help himself because his hands were tied behind him . 
But indeed he had very few to collect , for all he had to do , so far as he could see , was to wait for what would come next . 
Neither had he much power to collect them , for he was a good deal shaken . 
He got one hand disengaged , and then the other and presently stood free , with his good mattock once more in right serviceable relation to his arms and legs . 
CHAPTER The Mattock While The magistrate reinvigorated his selfishness with a greedy breakfast , Curdie found doing nothing in the dark rather tiresome work . 
it was useless attempting to think what he should do next , seeing the circumstances in which he was presently to find himself were altogether unknown to him . 
But he was at length startled from his waking dream by a swell in the noise outside . 
All the time there had been a few of the more idle of the inhabitants about the door , but they had been rather quiet . 
Now , however , the sounds of feet and voices began to grow , and grew so rapidly that it was plain a multitude was gathering . 
But at length , in the waves of the human noises rose a bigger wave , and by the running and shouting and outcry , Curdie learned that the magistrate was approaching . 
In a moment the air was filled with hideous howling , cries of unspeakable dismay , and the multitudinous noise of running feet . 
The next moment , in at the door of the vault bounded Lina , her two green eyes flaming yellow as sunflowers , and seeming to light up the dungeon . 
With one spring she threw herself at Curdie's feet , and laid her head upon them panting . 
For a few moments Lina lay panting hard it is breathless work leaping and roaring both at once , and that in a way to scatter thousands of people . 
The light revealed a vault without any window or other opening than the door . 
It was very old and much neglected . 
A single minute served for the survey , so little was there to note . 
Meantime , down in the angle between the back wall and the base of the heap Lina was scratching furiously with all the eighteen great strong claws of her mighty feet . 
There was none in all its long history it never had had one . 
Those who heard them fancied he was trying to get out , and laughed spitefully . 
As soon as he had done , he extinguished his candle , and went down to Lina . 
She had reached the hard rock which formed the floor of the dungeon , and was now clearing away the earth a little wider . 
Presently she looked up in his face and whined , as much as to say , 'My paws are not hard enough to get any farther . 
'Then get out of my way , Lina , said Curdie , and mind you keep your eyes shining , for fear I should hit you . 
So saying , he heaved his mattock , and assailed with the hammer end of it the spot she had cleared . 
The rock was very hard , but when it did break it broke in good sized pieces . 
Now with hammer , now with pick , he worked till he was weary , then rested , and then set to again . 
He could not tell how the day went , as he had no light but the lamping of Lina's eyes . 
The darkness hampered him greatly , for he would not let Lina come close enough to give him all the light she could , lest he should strike her . 
A piece of rock had fallen out of the floor , and dropped into water beneath . 
Already Lina , who had been lying a few yards off all the time he worked , was on her feet and peering through the hole . 
Curdie got down on his hands and knees , and looked . 
If they could but reach it , they might get out but even if it was deep enough , the height was very dangerous . 
The first thing , whatever might follow , was to make the hole larger . 
It was comparatively easy to break away the sides of it , and in the course of another hour he had it large enough to get through . 
And now he must reconnoitre . 
This done , he took the rope in his hands , and , beginning to descend , found himself in a narrow cleft widening into a cave . 
He dropped himself a little below its level , gave the rope a swing by pushing his feet against the side of the cleft , and so penduled himself into it . 
It proved a passage , level for some distance , then sloping gently up . 
He advanced carefully , feeling his way as he went . 
At length he was stopped by a door a small door , studded with iron . 
But the wood was in places so much decayed that some of the bolts had dropped out , and he felt sure of being able to open it . 
He returned , therefore , to fetch Lina and his mattock . 
Arrived at the cleft , his strong miner arms bore him swiftly up along the rope and through the hole into the dungeon . 
When she came opposite the passage , with a slight push of her tail she shot herself into it , and let go the rope , which Curdie drew up . 
Then he lighted his candle and searching in the rubbish found a bit of iron to take the place of his pickaxe across the hole . 
Then he searched again in the rubbish , and found half an old shutter . 
This he propped up leaning a little over the hole , with a bit of stick , and heaped against the back of it a quantity of the loosened earth . 
Next he tied his mattock to the end of the rope , dropped it , and let it hang . 
A few motions of hand over hand , and he swung himself and his mattock into the passage beside Lina . 
There he secured the end of the rope , and they went on together to the door . 
CHAPTER The Wine Cellar He lighted his candle and examined it . 
He took his knife again , made the hole bigger , and stood back . 
In she shot her small head and long neck , seized the bolt with her teeth , and dragged it , grating and complaining , back . 
A push then opened the door . 
it was at the foot of a short flight of steps . 
Presently , however , they fell on a great thing it was a wine cask . 
He was just setting out to explore the place thoroughly , when he heard steps coming down a stair . 
He stood still , not knowing whether the door would open an inch from his nose or twenty yards behind his back . 
He heard the key turn in the lock , and a stream of light shot in , ruining the darkness , about fifteen yards away on his right . 
A man carrying a candle in one hand and a large silver flagon in the other , entered , and came toward him . 
The light revealed a row of huge wine casks , that stretched away into the darkness of the other end of the long vault . 
Curdie retreated into the recess of the stair , and peeping round the corner of it , watched him , thinking what he could do to prevent him from locking them in . 
He came on and on , until curdie feared he would pass the recess and see them . 
He set down his light on the top of it , removed what seemed a large vent peg , and poured into the cask a quantity of something from the flagon . 
Last of all , he filled the flagon from the cask he had first visited , replaced then the vent peg , took up his candle , and turned toward the door . 
'There is something wrong here ! thought Curdie . 
'Speak to him , Lina , he whispered . 
The sudden howl she gave made Curdie himself start and tremble for a moment . 
But just as Curdie expected to see him fall dead he recovered himself , and flew to the door , through which he darted , leaving it open behind him . 
in a few minutes he heard the sound of many feet and voices . 
Through the hole in it he could see a little , and hear all . 
He did his best to defend himself , appealing to the evidence of their own senses that he was as sober as they were . 
They replied that a fright was no less a fright that the cause was imaginary , and a dream no less a dream that the fright had waked him from it . 
He said if he had dropped the key , the key was to be found , and they must help him to find it . 
They told him they wouldn't move a peg for him . 
He declared , with much language , he would have them all turned out of the king's service . 
They said they would swear he was drunk . 
And so positive were they about it , that at last the butler himself began to think whether it was possible they could be in the right . 
For he knew that sometimes when he had been drunk he fancied things had taken place which he found afterward could not have happened . 
in any case nobody wanted to find the key for him nothing could please them better than that the door of the wine cellar should never more be locked . 
By degrees the hubbub died away , and they departed , not even pulling to the door , for there was neither handle nor latch to it . 
As soon as they were gone , Curdie returned , knowing now that they were in the wine cellar of the palace , as indeed , he had suspected . 
Finding a pool of wine in a hollow of the floor , Lina lapped it up eagerly she had had no breakfast , and was now very thirsty as well as hungry . 
Her master was in a similar plight , for he had but just begun to eat when the magistrate arrived with the soldiers . 
He would go at once and reconnoitre . 
So he crept up the stair that led from the cellar . 
At the top was a door , opening on a long passage dimly lighted by a lamp . 
He told Lina to lie down upon the stair while he went on . 
Some also in the same livery were lounging about the fire . 
The one interesting thing at the moment , however , was the plentiful supper with which the table was spread . 
That he might lose no time by indecision , he selected a large pie upon which to pounce instantaneously . 
Curdie never made up his mind and then hesitated . 
He darted in , seized the pie , and bore it swiftly and noiselessly to the cellar stair . 
CHAPTER The King's Kitchen Back to the cellar Curdie and Lina sped with their booty , where , seated on the steps , Curdie lighted his bit of candle for a moment . 
A very little bit it was now , but they did not waste much of it in examination of the pie that they effected by a more summary process . 
Curdie thought it the nicest food he had ever tasted , and between them they soon ate it up . 
He was careful it should be from the cask of which he had seen the butler drink . 
Then they sat down again upon the steps , and waited until the house should be quiet . 
For he was there to do something , and if it did not come to him in the cellar , he must go to meet it in other places . 
When at length he thought he might venture , he shouldered his mattock and crept up the stair . 
The lamp was out in the passage , but he could not miss his way to the servants' hall . 
Trusting to Lina's quickness in concealing herself , he took her with him . 
When they reached the hall they found it quiet and nearly dark . 
The last of the great fire was glowing red , but giving little light . 
Presently , one after another , he came upon seven men fast asleep , most of them upon tables , one in a chair , and one on the floor . 
They seemed , from their shape and colour , to have eaten and drunk so much that they might be burned alive without wakening . 
'A nice set of people to be about a king ! thought Curdie to himself , and turned again to his candle hunt . 
He did at last find two or three little pieces , and stowed them away in his pockets . 
They now left the hall by another door , and entered a short passage , which led them to the huge kitchen , vaulted and black with smoke . 
There , too , the fire was still burning , so that he was able to see a little of the state of things in this quarter also . 
The place was dirty and disorderly . 
In another corner lay a page , and Curdie noted how like his dress was to his own . 
in the cinders before the hearth were huddled three dogs and five cats , all fast asleep , while the rats were running about the floor . 
Curdie's heart ached to think of the lovely child princess living over such a sty . 
The mine was a paradise to a palace with such servants in it . 
Leaving the kitchen , he got into the region of the sculleries . 
There horrible smells were wandering about , like evil spirits that come forth with the darkness . 
He lighted a candle but only to see ugly sights . 
Everywhere was filth and disorder . 
Mangy turnspit dogs were lying about , and grey rats were gnawing at refuse in the sinks . 
It was like a hideous dream . 
He felt as if he should never get out of it , and longed for one glimpse of his mother's poor little kitchen , so clean and bright and airy . 
Turning from it at last in miserable disgust , he almost ran back through the kitchen , re entered the hall , and crossed it to another door . 
It opened upon a wider passage leading to an arch in a stately corridor , all its length lighted by lamps in niches . 
At the end of it was a large and beautiful hall , with great pillars . 
There sat three men in the royal livery , fast asleep , each in a great armchair , with his feet on a huge footstool . 
They looked like fools dreaming themselves kings and Lina looked as if she longed to throttle them . 
At one side of the hall was the grand staircase , and they went up . 
They wandered about a good while , again and again finding themselves where they had been before . 
Gradually , however , Curdie was gaining some idea of the place . 
By and by Lina began to look frightened , and as they went on Curdie saw that she looked more and more frightened . 
At last , in a gorgeously painted gallery , he saw a curtain of crimson , and on the curtain a royal crown wrought in silks and stones . 
'Only , said his father , in assenting to the theory , 'he must really want to do right , and not merely fancy he does . 
He must want it with his heart and will , and not with his rag of a tongue . 
So he gently lifted the corner of the curtain , and there behind it was a half open door . 
He entered , and the moment he was in , Lina stretched herself along the threshold between the curtain and the door . 
CHAPTER The King's Chamber He found himself in a large room , dimly lighted by a silver lamp that hung from the ceiling . 
Far at the other end was a great bed , surrounded with dark heavy curtains . 
He went softly toward it , his heart beating fast . 
It was a dreadful thing to be alone in the king's chamber at the dead of night . 
To gain courage he had to remind himself of the beautiful princess who had sent him . 
But when he was about halfway to the bed , a figure appeared from the farther side of it , and came towards him , with a hand raised warningly . 
The light was dim , and he could distinguish little more than the outline of a young girl . 
But though the form he saw was much taller than the princess he remembered , he never doubted it was she . 
As she came she lowered the hand she had lifted , and laid the forefinger of it upon her lips . 
Nearer and nearer , quite near , close up to him she came , then stopped , and stood a moment looking at him . 
'You are Curdie , she said . 
'And you are the Princess Irene , he returned . 
'Then we know each other still , she said , with a sad smile of pleasure . 
'That I will , answered Curdie . 
He did not say , 'If I can' for he knew that what he was sent to do , that he could do . 
She held out her hand . 
'I am not the little princess any more . 
I have grown up since I saw you last , Mr Miner . 
The smile which accompanied the words had in it a strange mixture of playfulness and sadness . 
'So I see , Miss Princess , returned Curdie 'and therefore , being more of a princess , you are the more my princess . 
Here I am , sent by your great great grandmother , to be your servant . 
There ! he's waking now . 
She darted off to the side of the bed she had come from . 
Curdie stood where he was . 
I am a king , and I will be a king . 
I hate you and despise you , and you shall not torture me ! 'Never mind them , Father dear , said the princess . 
'I am here , and they shan't touch you . 
They dare not , you know , so long as you defy them . 
'Here it is all safe . 
I am watching it for you . 
Curdie drew near the bed on the other side . 
There lay the grand old king he looked grand still , and twenty years older . 
He saw neither his daughter nor his crown it was the voice of the one and the touch of the other that comforted him . 
He kept murmuring what seemed words , but was unintelligible to Curdie , although , to judge from the look of Irene's face , she learned and concluded from it . 
By degrees his voice sank away and the murmuring ceased , although still his lips moved . 
Stranger sight still was Lina lying along the threshold only nobody saw her just then . 
A moment more and the king's lips ceased to move . 
His breathing had grown regular and quiet . 
The princess gave a sigh of relief , and came round to Curdie . 
'We can talk a little now , she said , leading him toward the middle of the room . 
'My father will sleep now till the doctor wakes him to give him his medicine . 
It is not really medicine , though , but wine . 
Nothing but that , the doctor says , could have kept him so long alive . 
He always comes in the middle of the night to give it him with his own hands . 
But it makes me cry to see him wake up when so nicely asleep . 
'What sort of man is your doctor ? asked Curdie . 
'Oh , such a dear , good , kind gentleman ! replied the princess . 
'He speaks so softly , and is so sorry for his dear king ! He will be here presently , and you shall see for yourself . 
You will like him very much . 
'Has your king father been long ill ? asked Curdie . 
'A whole year now , she replied . 
'Did you not know ? That's how your mother never got the red petticoat my father promised her . 
The lord chancellor told me that not only Gwyntystorm but the whole land was mourning over the illness of the good man . 
And now it dawned upon him also that he had never heard the least expression of love to him . 
But just for the time he thought it better to say nothing on either point . 
'Does the king wander like this every night ? he asked . 
'Every night , answered Irene , shaking her head mournfully . 
'That is why I never go to bed at night . 
He is better during the day a little , and then I sleep in the dressing room there , to be with him in a moment if he should call me . 
'Don't you know then ? returned Irene , in wonder . 
'How was it you came ? Ah ! You said my grandmother sent you . 
But I thought you knew that he wanted you . 
And again she opened wide her blue stars . 
'Not I , said Curdie , also bewildered , but very glad . 
'He used to be constantly saying he was not so ill then as he is now that he wished he had you about him . 
'And I never to know it ! said Curdie , with displeasure . 
My father gave a great sigh , and said he feared the goblins had got you , after all , and your father and mother were dead of grief . 
And he has never mentioned you since , except when wandering . 
Where were you , Curdie , that they couldn't find you ? 'We will talk about that another time , when we are not expecting the doctor , said Curdie . 
As he spoke , his eyes fell upon something shining on the table under the lamp . 
His heart gave a great throb , and he went nearer . 
Yes , there could be no doubt it was the same flagon that the butler had filled in the wine cellar . 
'It looks worse and worse ! 'he said to himself , and went back to Irene , where she stood half dreaming . 
'When will the doctor be here ? he asked once more this time hurriedly . 
The question was answered not by the princess , but by something which that instant tumbled heavily into the room . 
Curdie flew toward it in vague terror about Lina . 
On the floor lay a little round man , puffing and blowing , and uttering incoherent language . 
Curdie thought of his mattock , and ran and laid it aside . 
'if he slept on the floor he would be late for breakfast , said Curdie to himself , and held out his hand to help him . 
But when he took hold of it , Curdie very nearly let him fall again , for what he held was not even a foot it was the belly of a creeping thing . 
He managed , however , to hold both his peace and his grasp , and pulled the doctor roughly on his legs such as they were . 
'Your Royal Highness has rather a thick mat at the door , said the doctor , patting his palms together . 
'I hope my awkwardness may not have startled His Majesty . 
While he talked Curdie went to the door Lina was not there . 
The doctor approached the bed . 
'And how has my beloved king slept tonight ? he asked . 
'No better , answered Irene , with a mournful shake of her head . 
'Ah , that is very well ! returned the doctor , his fall seeming to have muddled either his words or his meaning . 
'When we give him his wine , he will be better still . 
Curdie darted at the flagon , and lifted it high , as if he had expected to find it full , but had found it empty . 
'That stupid butler ! I heard them say he was drunk ! he cried in a loud whisper , and was gliding from the room . 
'Come here with that flagon , you ! Page ! cried the doctor . 
Curdie came a few steps toward him with the flagon dangling from his hand , heedless of the gushes that fell noiseless on the thick carpet . 
'The wine for His Majesty's use is in the third cask from the corner . 
'Fly , then , said the doctor , looking satisfied . 
Curdie stopped outside the curtain and blew an audible breath no more up came Lina noiseless as a shadow . 
He showed her the flagon . 
'The cellar , Lina go , he said . 
She galloped away on her soft feet , and Curdie had indeed to fly to keep up with her . 
Not once did she make even a dubious turn . 
From the king's gorgeous chamber to the cold cellar they shot . 
The little doctor took it , poured out a full glass , smelt , but did not taste it , and set it down . 
Then he leaned over the bed , shouted in the king's ear , blew upon his eyes , and pinched his arm Curdie thought he saw him run something bright into it . 
At last the king half woke . 
The doctor seized the glass , raised his head , poured the wine down his throat , and let his head fall back on the pillow again . 
Tenderly wiping his beard , and bidding the princess good night in paternal tones , he then took his leave . 
Curdie would gladly have driven his pick into his head , but that was not in his commission , and he let him go . 
The little round man looked very carefully to his feet as he crossed the threshold . 
'That attentive fellow of a page has removed the mat , he said to himself , as he walked along the corridor . 
CHAPTER Counterplotting Curdie was already sufficiently enlightened as to how things were going , to see that he must have the princess of one mind with him , and they must work together . 
Doubtless His Majesty's councillors desired to alienate the hearts of his subjects from their sovereign . 
Could this have been managed without the princess , Curdie would have preferred leaving her in ignorance of the horrors from which he sought to deliver her . 
He feared also the danger of her knowledge betraying itself to the evil eyes about her but it must be risked and she had always been a wise child . 
And he could not doubt that the old princess had sent him expressly to frustrate their plans . 
While he stood thinking thus with himself , the princess was earnestly watching the king , with looks of childish love and womanly tenderness that went to Curdie's heart . 
Curdie came near , and softly called her . 
'I can't leave Papa just yet , she returned , in a low voice . 
'I will wait , said Curdie 'but I want very much to say something . 
In a few minutes she came to him where he stood under the lamp . 
'Well , Curdie , what is it ? she said . 
'Princess , he replied , 'I want to tell you that I have found why your grandmother sent me . 
'Come this way , then , she answered , 'where I can see the face of my king . 
Then he told her what he had discovered of the state of things generally in Gwyntystorm , and especially what he had heard and seen in the palace that night . 
'You frighten me dreadfully , said Irene , trembling . 
'You must be brave for your king's sake , said Curdie . 
'Indeed I will , she replied , and turned a long loving look upon the beautiful face of her father . 
That round body he shows is but the case of a serpent . 
Perhaps the creature lies there , as in its nest , coiled round and round inside . 
'Horrible indeed but we must not try to get rid of horrible things by refusing to look at them , and saying they are not there . 
Is not your beautiful father sleeping better since he had the wine ? 'Yes . 
'Does he always sleep better after having it ? She reflected an instant . 
'No always worse till tonight , she answered . 
'Then remember that was the wine I got him not what the butler drew . 
Nothing that passes through any hand in the house except yours or mine must henceforth , till he is well , reach His Majesty's lips . 
'But how , dear Curdie ? said the princess , almost crying . 
'That we must contrive , answered Curdie . 
'I know how to take care of the wine but for his food now we must think . 
'He takes hardly any , said the princess , with a pathetic shake of her little head which Curdie had almost learned to look for . 
'The more need , he replied , 'there should be no poison in it . 
'As soon as he has honest food he will begin to grow better . 
And you must be just as careful with yourself , Princess , Curdie went on , 'for you don't know when they may begin to poison you , too . 
'There's no fear of me don't talk about me , said Irene . 
'The good food ! How are we to get it , Curdie ? That is the whole question . 
'I am thinking hard , answered Curdie . 
'I would go with you , but I dare not leave my father . 
Alas ! He scarcely ever takes more than a mouthful . 
'Bread at least he shall have , said Curdie 'and that , with the honest wine , will do as well as anything , I do believe . 
I will go at once and look for some . 
But I want you to see Lina first , and know her , lest , coming upon her by accident at any time , you should be frightened . 
'I should like much to see her , said the princess . 
Warning her not to be startled by her ugliness , he went to the door and called her . 
She entered , creeping with downcast head , and dragging her tail over the floor behind her . 
Curdie watched the princess as the frightful creature came nearer and nearer . 
One shudder went from head to foot , and next instant she stepped to meet her . 
Lina dropped flat on the floor , and covered her face with her two big paws . 
It went to the heart of the princess in a moment she was on her knees beside her , stroking her ugly head , and patting her all over . 
'Good dog ! Dear ugly dog ! she said . 
'I believe , said Curdie , 'from what your grandmother told me , that Lina is a woman , and that she was naughty , but is now growing good . 
'Shall I take her with me or leave her ? asked Curdie . 
'Leave her , poor dear , said Irene , and Curdie , knowing the way now , went without her . 
So he returned and told her that as soon as it was light he would go into the city for some , and asked her for a handkerchief to tie it in . 
He also asked her to tell the king that he was in the house . 
His hope lay in the fact that bakers everywhere go to work early . 
But it was yet much too early . 
So he persuaded the princess to lie down , promising to call her if the king should stir . 
CHAPTER The Loaf His Majesty slept very quietly . 
The dawn had grown almost day , and still Curdie lingered , unwilling to disturb the princess . 
At last , however , he called her , and she was in the room in a moment . 
She had slept , she said , and felt quite fresh . 
Delighted to find her father still asleep , and so peacefully , she pushed her chair close to the bed , and sat down with her hands in her lap . 
Curdie got his mattock from where he had hidden it behind a great mirror , and went to the cellar , followed by Lina . 
They took some breakfast with them as they passed through the hall , and as soon as they had eaten it went out the back way . 
At the mouth of the passage Curdie seized the rope , drew himself up , pushed away the shutter , and entered the dungeon . 
Then he swung the end of the rope to Lina , and she caught it in her teeth . 
When her master said , 'Now , Lina ! she gave a great spring , and he ran away with the end of the rope as fast as ever he could . 
And such a spring had she made , that by the time he had to bear her weight she was within a few feet of the hole . 
The instant she got a paw through , she was all through . 
Apparently their enemies were waiting till hunger should have cowed them , for there was no sign of any attempt having been made to open the door . 
He could hardly believe it was not yet a whole day since he had been thrown in there with his hands tied at his back . 
As to the dogs , ever since the death of their two companions , a shadow that looked like a mattock was enough to make them scamper . 
As soon as he reached the archway of the city gate he turned to reconnoitre the baker's shop , and perceiving no sign of movement , waited there watching for the first . 
After about an hour , the door opened , and the baker's man appeared with a pail in his hand . 
He went to a pump that stood in the street , and having filled his pail returned with it into the shop . 
Curdie stole after him , found the door on the latch , opened it very gently , peeped in , saw nobody , and entered . 
He therefore merely pushed the door close and left it . 
Then once more carefully arranging the earth behind the shutter , so that it should again fall with it , he returned to the cellar . 
And now he had to convey the loaf to the princess . 
If he could venture to take it himself , well if not , he would send Lina . 
He crept to the door of the servants' hall , and found the sleepers beginning to stir . 
'Oh , hang your losses ! answered his companion 'you'll soon pick up twice as much about the house , if you but keep your eyes open . 
She untied it with joy , and Lina stole away , silent as she had come . 
The king ate and drank , enjoyed the bread and the wine much , and instantly fell asleep again . 
It was hours before the lazy people brought their breakfast . 
When it came , Irene crumbled a little about , threw some into the fireplace , and managed to make the tray look just as usual . 
in the meantime , down below in the cellar , Curdie was lying in the hollow between the upper sides of two of the great casks , the warmest place he could find . 
She lay at his feet , across the two casks , and did her best so to arrange her huge tail that it should be a warm coverlid for her master . 
The king said he would see the lord chamberlain , and the doctor went . 
Then Irene gave him more bread and wine , and the king ate and drank , and smiled a feeble smile , the first real one she had seen for many a day . 
He said he felt much better , and would soon be able to take matters into his own hands again . 
He had a strange miserable feeling , he said , that things were going terribly wrong , although he could not tell how . 
Her great great grandmother had sent him , she said . 
The king looked strangely upon her , but the strange look passed into a smile clearer than the first , and irene's heart throbbed with delight . 
CHAPTER The Lord Chamberlain At noon the lord chamberlain appeared . 
With a long , low bow , and paper in hand , he stepped softly into the room . 
He was a lean , long , yellow man , with a small head , bald over the top , and tufted at the back and about the ears . 
He had a very thin , prominent , hooked nose , and a quantity of loose skin under his chin and about the throat , which came craning up out of his neckcloth . 
His eyes were very small , sharp , and glittering , and looked black as jet . 
He had hardly enough of a mouth to make a smile with . 
His left hand held the paper , and the long , skinny fingers of his right a pen just dipped in ink . 
He requested the lord chamberlain therefore to read it . 
His Lordship commenced at once but the difficulties he seemed to encounter , and the fits of stammering that seized him , roused the king's suspicion tenfold . 
'I trouble His Lordship too much , he said to her 'you can read print well , my child let me hear how you can read writing . 
Your Majesty can scarcely with justice expect the very organs of her speech to prove capable of compassing words so long , and to her so unintelligible . 
'I think much of my little princess and her capabilities , returned the king , more and more aroused . 
'Pray , my lord , permit her to try . 
'Consider , Your Majesty the thing would be altogether without precedent . 
it would be to make sport of statecraft , said the lord chamberlain . 
'So this morning we shall read no further . 
I am indeed ill able for business of such weight . 
'Not today , my lord , replied the king . 
'It is of the greatest importance , Your Majesty , softly insisted the other . 
'I descried no such importance in it , said the king . 
'Your Majesty heard but a part . 
'And I can hear no more today . 
I have the very highest opinion of your judgement , my lord , answered the king 'that is , with respect to means we might differ as to ends . 
The lord chamberlain made yet further attempts at persuasion but they grew feebler and feebler , and he was at last compelled to retire without having gained his object . 
The princess was in high delight . 
The lord chamberlain sent in a rage for Dr Kelman . 
The princess bearing her part , the loaf was eaten up and the flagon emptied before night . 
The butler took the flagon away , and brought it back filled to the brim , but both were thirsty and hungry when Curdie came again . 
Meantime he and Lina , watching and waking alternately , had plenty of sleep . 
Also , when the butler came to fill the flagon , they restrained themselves , for the villain's fate was not yet ready for him . 
He was drawing the wicked wine at the moment , and did not see him , else he would doubtless have run too . 
it was hard to bear chiefly from the attractions of a splendid loaf , just fresh out of the oven , which he longed to secure for the king and princess . 
At length his chance did arrive he pounced upon the loaf and carried it away , and soon after got hold of a pie . 
This time , however , both loaf and pie were missed . 
He declared he had provided both . 
One of themselves , he said , must have carried them away for some friend outside the palace . 
Then a housemaid , who had not long been one of them , said she had seen someone like a page running in the direction of the cellar with something in his hands . 
Instantly all turned upon the pages , accusing them , one after another . 
All denied , but nobody believed one of them Where there is no truth there can be no faith . 
To the cellar they all set out to look for the missing pie and loaf . 
Lina heard them coming , as well she might , for they were talking and quarrelling loud , and gave her master warning . 
They snatched up everything , and got all signs of their presence out at the back door before the servants entered . 
When they found nothing , they all turned on the chambermaid , and accused her , not only of lying against the pages , but of having taken the things herself . 
That , however , would be small gain so long as the treacherous officers of state continued in it . 
They must be first dealt with . 
A thought came to him , and the longer he looked at it the better he liked it . 
As soon as the servants were gone , quarrelling and accusing all the way , they returned and finished their supper . 
Until they had the king safe through the worst part of the night , however , nothing could be done . 
They had now merely to go on waiting where they were till the household should be asleep . 
This waiting and waiting was much the hardest thing Curdie had to do in the whole affair . 
He took his mattock and , going again into the long passage , lighted a candle end and proceeded to examine the rock on all sides . 
But this was not merely to pass the time he had a reason for it . 
If such stone existed here in any plenty , he could soon make the king rich and independent of his ill conditioned subjects . 
Every piece he broke was spotted with particles and little lumps of a lovely greenish yellow and that was gold . 
Hitherto he had worked only in silver , but he had read , and heard talk , and knew , therefore , about gold . 
It was a great delight to him to use his mattock once more . 
The time went quickly , and when he left the passage to go to the king's chamber , he had already a good heap of fragments behind the broken door . 
CHAPTER Dr Kelman As soon as he had reason to hope the way was clear , Curdie ventured softly into the hall , with Lina behind him . 
There was no one asleep on the bench or floor , but by the fading fire sat a girl weeping . 
It was the same who had seen him carrying off the food , and had been so hardly used for saying so . 
She opened her eyes when he appeared , but did not seem frightened at him . 
'I know why you weep , said Curdie , 'and I am sorry for you . 
'It is hard not to be believed just because one speaks the truth , said the girl , 'but that seems reason enough with some people . 
He showed her the loaf . 
'If you can trust , as well as speak the truth , I will trust you . 
Can you trust me ? She looked at him steadily for a moment . 
'I can , she answered . 
'One thing more , said Curdie 'have you courage as well as truth ? 'I think so . 
'Look my dog in the face and don't cry out . 
The girl looked at her , and laid her hand on Lina's head . 
'Now I know you are a true woman , said curdie . 
'I am come to set things right in this house . 
Not one of the servants knows I am here . 
'Most likely but will you give them the chance ? 'I will . 
'Then I will be your friend . 
Wait here till I come again . 
She looked him once more in the face , and sat down . 
When he reached the royal chamber , he found His Majesty awake , and very anxiously expecting him . 
He received him with the utmost kindness , and at once , as it were , put himself in his hands by telling him all he knew concerning the state he was in . 
His voice was feeble , but his eye was clear , although now and then his words and thoughts seemed to wander . 
Curdie could not be certain that the cause of their not being intelligible to him did not lie in himself . 
The king told him that for some years , ever since his queen's death , he had been losing heart over the wickedness of his people . 
He had tried hard to make them good , but they got worse and worse . 
The main cause of his illness was the despondency with which the degeneration of his people affected him . 
He could not sleep , and had terrible dreams while , to his unspeakable shame and distress , he doubted almost everybody . 
The whole country was discontented , he heard , and there were signs of gathering storm outside as well as inside his borders . 
Thus the poor king went wandering in a maze of sorrows , some of which were purely imaginary , while others were truer than he understood . 
He knew it to be poison , he said , somehow , although it tasted like wine . 
Here he stopped , faint with the unusual exertion of talking . 
Curdie seized the flagon , and ran to the wine cellar . 
In the servants' hall the girl still sat by the fire , waiting for him . 
As he returned he told her to follow him , and left her at the chamber door until he should rejoin her . 
'So ! said the king . 
'I will not go to sleep , said the king . 
'That would be as bad as taking the poison , said Curdie . 
'No , no , sire you must show your confidence by leaving all the watching to me , and doing all the sleeping Your Majesty can . 
The king smiled a contented smile , turned on his side , and was presently fast asleep . 
Then Curdie persuaded the princess also to go to sleep , and telling Lina to watch , went to the housemaid . 
He asked her if she could inform him which of the council slept in the palace , and show him their rooms . 
She knew every one of them , she said , and took him the round of all their doors , telling him which slept in each room . 
He then dismissed her , and returning to the king's chamber , seated himself behind a curtain at the head of the bed , on the side farthest from the king . 
He told Lina to get under the bed , and make no noise . 
About one o'clock the doctor came stealing in . 
He looked round for the princess , and seeing no one , smiled with satisfaction as he approached the wine where it stood under the lamp . 
Having partly filled a glass , he took from his pocket a small phial , and filled up the glass from it . 
The light fell upon his face from above , and Curdie saw the snake in it plainly visible . 
He had never beheld such an evil countenance the man hated the king , and delighted in doing him wrong . 
With the glass in his hand , he drew near the bed , set it down , and began his usual rude rousing of His Majesty . 
'Take him by the leg , Lina . 
She darted noiselessly upon him . 
He tumbled on the floor with a yell . 
'Drag him out , Lina , said Curdie . 
Lina took him by the collar , and dragged him out . 
Her master followed her to direct her , and they left the doctor lying across the lord chamberlain's door , where he gave another horrible yell , and fainted . 
But when Curdie told him all was well , he lay down again as quietly as a child comforted by his mother from a troubled dream . 
Curdie went to the door to watch . 
The doctor's yells had aroused many , but not one had yet ventured to appear . 
Bells were rung violently , but none were answered and in a minute or two Curdie had what he was watching for . 
The door of the lord chamberlain's room opened , and , pale with hideous terror , His Lordship peeped out . 
Seeing no one , he advanced to step into the corridor , and tumbled over the doctor . 
Curdie ran up , and held out his hand . 
He received in it the claw of a bird of prey vulture or eagle , he could not tell which . 
Curdie left him , but slipped into the King's chamber , closed and locked the door , and left the rascals to look after each other . 
Ere long he heard hurrying footsteps , and for a few minutes there was a great muffled tumult of scuffling feet , low voices and deep groanings then all was still again . 
Irene slept through the whole so confidently did she rest , knowing Curdie was in her father's room watching over him . 
CHAPTER The Prophecy Curdie sat and watched every motion of the sleeping king . 
All the night , to his ear , the palace lay as quiet as a nursery of healthful children . 
At sunrise he called the princess . 
'How has His Majesty slept ? were her first words as she entered the room . 
'Quite quietly , answered Curdie 'that is , since the doctor was got rid of . 
'How did you manage that ? inquired Irene and Curdie had to tell all about it . 
'How terrible ! she said . 
'Did it not startle the king dreadfully ? 'it did rather . 
I found him getting out of bed , sword in hand . 
'The brave old man ! cried the princess . 
'Not so old ! said Curdie , 'as you will soon see . 
'But where is the crown ? cried Irene , in sudden terror . 
'I stroked his hands , answered Curdie , 'and took the crown from them and ever since he has slept quietly , and again and again smiled in his sleep . 
'I have never seen him do that , said the princess . 
'But what have you done with the crown , Curdie ? 'Look , said Curdie , moving away from the bedside . 
Irene followed him and there , in the middle of the floor , she saw a strange sight . 
Irene gazed , and looked up with a smile . 
'But what if the thief were to come , and she not to wake ? she said . 
'Shall I try her ? And as she spoke she stooped toward the crown . 
'No , no , no ! cried Curdie , terrified . 
'She would frighten you out of your wits . 
I would do it to show you , but she would wake your father . 
You have no conception with what a roar she would spring at my throat . 
But you shall see how lightly she wakes the moment I speak to her . 
Lina ! She was on her feet the same instant , with her great tail sticking out straight behind her , just as it had been lying . 
'Good dog ! said the princess , and patted her head . 
Lina wagged her tail solemnly , like the boom of an anchored sloop . 
Irene took the crown , and laid it where the king would see it when he woke . 
'Now , Princess , said Curdie , 'I must leave you for a few minutes . 
You must bolt the door , please , and not open it to any one . 
Away to the cellar he went with Lina , taking care , as they passed through the servants' hall , to get her a good breakfast . 
In about one minute she had eaten what he gave her , and looked up in his face it was not more she wanted , but work . 
As he reached the door of the king's chamber , Lina was flying out of the gate of Gwyntystorm as fast as her mighty legs could carry her . 
'What's come to the wench ? growled the menservants one to another , when the chambermaid appeared among them the next morning . 
There was something in her face which they could not understand , and did not like . 
'Are we all dirt ? they said . 
'What are you thinking about ? Have you seen yourself in the glass this morning , miss ? She made no answer . 
'Do you want to be treated as you deserve , or will you speak , you hussy ? said the first woman cook . 
'I would fain know what right you have to put on a face like that ! 'You won't believe me , said the girl . 
What is it ? 'I must tell you , whether you believe me or not , she said . 
'It is this , then if you do not repent of your bad ways , you are all going to be punished all turned out of the palace together . 
'A mighty punishment ! said the butler . 
'Right , indeed ! cried the butler but that moment the thought came back to him of the roar he had heard in the cellar , and he turned pale and was silent . 
The steward took it up next . 
'You have but to look into your books or your heart . 
'Can you tell me , then , what I have to repent of ? said the groom of the chambers . 
'That you know best yourself , said the girl once more . 
Then arose a great hubbub for by this time all the servants in the house were gathered about her , and all talked together , in towering indignation . 
'Thieving , indeed ! cried one . 
'And who wouldn't drink when he had a chance ? Or who would repent it , except that the drink was gone ? Tell me that , Miss Innocence . 
'Lying ! said a great , coarse footman . 
'You invite your fate , she said quietly . 
And now Curdie set himself to interest and amuse the king , and prevent him from thinking too much , in order that he might the sooner think the better . 
At last , with the mission given him by the wonderful princess and his consequent adventures , Curdie brought up the whole tale to the present moment . 
Then a silence fell , and Irene and Curdie thought the king was asleep . 
But he was far from it he was thinking about many things . 
What he meant they could not quite understand , but they saw plainly that already he was better . 
'Put away my crown , he said . 
'I am tired of seeing it , and have no more any fear of its safety . 
They put it away together , withdrew from the bedside , and left him in peace . 
He feared , in some shape or other , a more determined assault . 
Towards night the king fell asleep . 
Curdie thought more and more uneasily of the moment when he must again leave them for a little while . 
Deeper and deeper fell the shadows . 
No one came to light the lamp . 
The princess drew her chair close to Curdie she would rather it were not so dark , she said . 
She was afraid of something she could not tell what nor could she give any reason for her fear but that all was so dreadfully still . 
There was more risk of his own presence being discovered , no doubt , but things were now drawing to a crisis , and it must be run . 
To his surprise he found it locked , and the key was gone . 
There was no time for deliberation . 
He felt where the lock was , and dealt it a tremendous blow with his mattock . 
It needed but a second to dash the door open . 
Someone laid a hand on his arm . 
'Who is it ? said Curdie . 
'I told you they wouldn't believe me , sir , said the housemaid . 
'I have been here all day . 
He took her hand , and said , 'You are a good , brave girl . 
Now come with me , lest your enemies imprison you again . 
Swiftly he swung himself up into the dungeon . 
Lina had done her part . 
The place was swarming with creatures animal forms wilder and more grotesque than ever ramped in nightmare dream . 
Close by the hole , waiting his coming , her green eyes piercing the gulf below , Lina had but just laid herself down when he appeared . 
All about the vault and up the slope of the rubbish heap lay and stood and squatted the forty nine whose friendship Lina had conquered in the wood . 
They all came crowding about Curdie . 
He must get them into the cellar as quickly as ever he could . 
But when he looked at the size of some of them , he feared it would be a long business to enlarge the hole sufficiently to let them through . 
At it he rushed , hitting vigorously at the edge with his mattock . 
In a few minutes the opening was large enough for the biggest creature among them to get through it . 
Next came the difficulty of letting them down some were quite light , but the half of them were too heavy for the rope , not to say for his arms . 
The creatures themselves seemed to be puzzling where or how they were to go . 
One after another of them came up , looked down through the hole , and drew back . 
Curdie thought if he let Lina down , perhaps that would suggest something possibly they did not see the opening on the other side . 
He did so , and Lina stood lighting up the entrance of the passage with her gleaming eyes . 
At last it came to the turn of the serpent with the long body , the four short legs behind , and the little wings before . 
No sooner had he poked his head through than he poked it farther through and farther , and farther yet , until there was little more than his legs left in the dungeon . 
By that time he had got his head and neck well into the passage beside Lina . 
Then his legs gave a great waddle and spring , and he tumbled himself , far as there was betwixt them , heels over head into the passage . 
It was plain to Curdie , from the universal hardness among them , that they must all , at one time or another , have been creatures of the mines . 
He saw at once what this one was after . 
The beast had planted his feet firmly upon the floor of the passage , and stretched his long body up and across the chasm to serve as a bridge for the rest . 
But he thought some of the creatures would try the legserpent's teeth . 
one by one the oddities followed , and slid down in safety . 
When they seemed to be all landed , he counted them there were but forty eight . 
He had made his journey by rolling as swiftly as the fleetest of them could run . 
The back of the legserpent not being flat , he could not quite trust himself to roll straight and not drop into the gulf . 
He ran first to the cellar to warn the girl not to be frightened at the avengers of wickedness . 
Then he called to Lina to bring in her friends . 
One after another they came trooping in , till the cellar seemed full of them . 
The housemaid regarded them without fear . 
'Sir , she said , 'there is one of the pages I don't take to be a bad fellow . 
'Then keep him near you , said Curdie . 
'Take me that way , said Curdie . 
By many ups and downs and windings and turnings she brought him to a dimly lighted room , where lay an elderly man asleep . 
His arm was outside the coverlid , and Curdie gave his hand a hurried grasp as he went by . 
His heart beat for joy , for he had found a good , honest , human hand . 
'I suppose that is why he is ill , he said to himself . 
It was now close upon suppertime , and when the girl stopped at the door of the king's chamber , he told her to go and give the servants one warning more . 
'Say the messenger sent you , he said . 
'I will be with you very soon . 
The king was still asleep . 
CHAPTER The Vengeance By the time the girl reached the servants' hall they were seated at supper . 
A loud , confused exclamation arose when she entered . 
No one made room for her all stared with unfriendly eyes . 
A page , who entered the next minute by another door , came to her side . 
'Where do you come from , hussy ? shouted the butler , and knocked his fist on the table with a loud clang . 
He had gone to fetch wine , had found the stair door broken open and the cellar door locked , and had turned and fled . 
Among his fellows , however , he had now regained what courage could be called his . 
'From the cellar , she replied . 
'The messenger broke open the door , and sent me to you again . 
'The messenger ! Pooh ! What messenger ? 'The same who sent me before to tell you to repent . 
'What ! Will you go fooling it still ? Haven't you had enough of it ? cried the butler in a rage , and starting to his feet , drew near threateningly . 
'I must do as I am told , said the girl . 
'Then why don't you do as I tell you , and hold your tongue ? said the butler . 
'Oh , ho ! cried the butler , and pointed his fat finger at him . 
'Don't say I threaten you , Mr Butler , expostulated the girl from behind the page . 
'The messenger said I was to tell you again , and give you one chance more . 
'Did the messenger mention me in particular ? asked the butler , looking the page unsteadily in the face . 
'No , sir , answered the girl . 
'I thought not ! I should like to hear him ! 'Then hear him now , said Curdie , who that moment entered at the opposite corner of the hall . 
'I speak of the butler in particular when I say that I know more evil of him than of any of the rest . 
He will not let either his own conscience or my messenger speak to him I therefore now speak myself . 
I proclaim him a villain , and a traitor to His Majesty the king . 
True , they saw by his mattock over his shoulder that he was nothing but a miner boy , yet for a moment the truth told notwithstanding . 
Then a great roaring laugh burst from the biggest of the footmen as he came shouldering his way through the crowd toward Curdie . 
He broke prison , and here he is preaching ! As he spoke , he stretched out his great hand to lay hold of him . 
Curdie caught it in his left hand , and heaved his mattock with the other . 
His arm dropped by his side , he gave a roar , and drew back . 
His fellows came crowding upon Curdie . 
None moved but the page , who went toward him skirting the wall . 
When they caught sight of him , the crowd broke into a hiss of derision . 
Through the crowd , which scattered right and left before them , they came down upon Curdie . 
She went straight at the butler . 
He was down in a moment , and she on the top of him , wagging her tail over him like a lioness . 
'Don't kill him , Lina , said Curdie . 
'Oh , Mr Miner ! cried the butler . 
'Put your foot on his mouth , Lina , said Curdie . 
'The truth Fear tells is not much better than her lies . 
And now some of the culprits were stealing to the doors nearest them . 
Curdie whispered to the two creatures next him . 
Meantime Curdie had , with a second sharp blow from the hammer of his mattock , disabled the cook , so that he yielded the spit with a groan . 
He now turned to the avengers . 
'Go at them , he said . 
The whole nine and forty obeyed at once , each for himself , and after his own fashion . 
A scene of confusion and terror followed . 
The crowd scattered like a dance of flies . 
The creatures had been instructed not to hurt much , but to hunt incessantly , until everyone had rushed from the house . 
The women shrieked , and ran hither and thither through the hall , pursued each by her own horror , and snapped at by every other in passing . 
if one threw herself down in hysterical despair , she was instantly poked or clawed or nibbled up again . 
The tapir had the big footman in charge the fellow stood stock still , and let the beast come up to him , then put out his finger and playfully patted his nose . 
The tapir gave the nose a little twist , and the finger lay on the floor . 
Then indeed did the footman run . 
Not a beast went after , until , one by one , they were every one gone from the hall , and the whole crew in the kitchen . 
There they were beginning to congratulate themselves that all was over , when in came the creatures trooping after them , and the second act of their terror and pain began . 
Nor was it long before the last of them had fled from the kitchen to the sculleries . 
But thither also they were followed , and there again they were hunted about . 
At last they got the door into a back yard open , and rushed out . 
Then first they knew that the wind was howling and the rain falling in sheets . 
But there was no rest for them even there . 
The door was flung to behind them , and they heard it locked and bolted and barred against them . 
CHAPTER More Vengeance As soon as they were gone , Curdie brought the creatures back to the servants' hall , and told them to eat up everything on the table . 
A very few moments served to make everything eatable vanish , and then Curdie requested them to clean house , and the page who stood by to assist them . 
Every one set about it except Ballbody he could do nothing at cleaning , for the more he rolled , the more he spread the dirt . 
Curdie meantime was with the king , telling him all he had done . 
Having promised His Majesty and Her Royal Highness a good breakfast , Curdie now went to finish the business . 
The courtiers must be dealt with . 
A few who were the worst , and the leaders of the rest , must be made examples of the others should be driven to the street . 
He found the chiefs of the conspiracy holding a final consultation in the smaller room off the hall . 
Everything settled , they agreed to retire , and have a few hours' quiet sleep first all but the secretary , who was to sit up and call them at the proper moment . 
Curdie allowed them half an hour to get to bed , and then set about completing his purgation of the palace . 
First he called Lina , and opened the door of the room where the secretary sat . 
She crept in , and laid herself down against it . 
When the secretary , rising to stretch his legs , caught sight of her eyes , he stood frozen with terror . 
She made neither motion nor sound . 
Gathering courage , and taking the thing for a spectral illusion , he made a step forward . 
She showed her other teeth , with a growl neither more than audible nor less than horrible . 
The secretary sank fainting into a chair . 
He was not a brave man , and besides , his conscience had gone over to the enemy , and was sitting against the door by Lina . 
To the lord chamberlain's door next , Curdie conducted the legserpent , and let him in . 
Now His Lordship had had a bedstead made for himself , sweetly fashioned of rods of silver gilt upon it the legserpent found him asleep , and under it he crept . 
This done , he set up his head , looking down with curved neck right over His Lordship's , and began to hiss in his face . 
Presently he persuaded himself that it was only a horrid nightmare , and began to struggle with all his strength to throw it off . 
At last he undid himself entirely , and crept from the bed . 
Once more , thinking his enemy was gone , he began to shout for help . 
But the instant he opened his mouth his keeper darted at him and bit him , and after three or four such essays , he lay still . 
The master of the horse Curdie gave in charge to the tapir . 
When the soldier saw him enter for he was not yet asleep he sprang from his bed , and flew at him with his sword . 
The attorney general had not gone to bed , but sat in a chair asleep before a great mirror . 
He had been trying the effect of a diamond star which he had that morning taken from the jewel room . 
In the glass he saw himself wound about with slavery infinite . 
On a footstool a yard off sat the spider glaring at him . 
Clubhead had mounted guard over the butler , where he lay tied hand and foot under the third cask . 
From that cask he had seen the wine run into a great bath , and therein he expected to be drowned . 
The doctor , with his crushed leg , needed no one to guard him . 
And now Curdie proceeded to the expulsion of the rest . 
Great men or underlings , he treated them all alike . 
From room to room over the house he went , and sleeping or waking took the man by the hand . 
Such was the state to which a year of wicked rule had reduced the moral condition of the court , that in it all he found but three with human hands . 
The possessors of these he allowed to dress themselves and depart in peace . 
When they perceived his mission , and how he was backed , they yielded . 
Then commenced a general hunt , to clear the house of the vermin . 
Out of their beds in their night clothing , out of their rooms , gorgeous chambers or garret nooks , the creatures hunted them . 
Not one was allowed to escape . 
Tumult and noise there was little , for fear was too deadly for outcry . 
The lord chancellor was only too glad to share a mattress with a stableboy , and steal his bare feet under his jacket . 
In the morning Curdie appeared , and the outcasts were in terror , thinking he had come after them again . 
But he took no notice of them his object was to request Derba to go to the palace the king required her services . 
She need take no trouble about her cottage , he said the palace was henceforward her home she was the king's chatelaine over men and maidens of his household . 
And this very morning she must cook His Majesty a nice breakfast . 
CHAPTER The Preacher Various reports went undulating through the city as to the nature of what had taken place in the palace . 
The people gathered , and stared at the house , eyeing it as if it had sprung up in the night . 
But it looked sedate enough , remaining closed and silent , like a house that was dead . 
They saw no one come out or go in . 
Smoke arose from a chimney or two there was hardly another sign of life . 
He was considered a very eloquent man , but I can offer only a few of the larger bones of his sermon . 
This was the first duty of Man . 
If every one would but obey this law , number one , then would every one be perfectly cared for one being always equal to one . 
Horror froze the sermon pump . 
At the back of it he dropped him into the dust hole among the remnants of a library whose age had destroyed its value in the eyes of the chapter . 
They found him burrowing in it , a lunatic henceforth whose madness presented the peculiar feature , that in its paroxysms he jabbered sense . 
Bone freezing horror pervaded Gwyntystorm . 
A grand exorcism was therefore indispensable . 
Upon it they proceeded to act , and strengthened themselves on all sides . 
The action of the king's bodyguard remained for a time uncertain . 
But when at length its officers were satisfied that both the master of the horse and their colonel were missing , they placed themselves under the orders of the first priest . 
At once they formed themselves into a regiment , and put their dogs in training for attack . 
incessant was the talk , innumerable were the suggestions , and great was the deliberation . 
This over , the leaders retired to arrange an attack upon the palace . 
But that night events occurred which , proving the failure of their first , induced the abandonment of their second , intent . 
Certain of the prowling order of the community , whose numbers had of late been steadily on the increase , reported frightful things . 
Demons of indescribable ugliness had been espied careering through the midnight streets and courts . 
A well known receiver of stolen goods had had his shop broken open , and when he came down in the morning had found everything in ruin on the pavement . 
The wooden image of justice over the door of the city marshal had had the arm that held the sword bitten off . 
Having poured it over him , they put him again into his bed , where he soon learned how a mummy must feel in its cerements . 
And thus things went on for some days . 
CHAPTER Barbara In the meantime , with Derba to minister to his wants , with Curdie to protect him , and Irene to nurse him , the king was getting rapidly stronger . 
Good food was what he most wanted and of that , at least of certain kinds of it , there was plentiful store in the palace . 
With such changes it was no wonder if his heart grew lighter as well as his brain clearer . 
But still evil dreams came and troubled him , the lingering result of the wicked medicines the doctor had given him . 
Every night , sometimes twice or thrice , he would wake up in terror , and it would be minutes ere he could come to himself . 
The consequence was that he was always worse in the morning , and had loss to make up during the day . 
While he slept , Irene or Curdie , one or the other , must still be always by his side . 
Fearing something might be wrong , and noting the king's sleep more quiet than usual , he ran to see . 
He found the child in the middle of the floor , weeping bitterly , and Derba slumbering peacefully in bed . 
The instant she saw him the night lost thing ceased her crying , smiled , and stretched out her arms to him . 
Unwilling to wake the old woman , who had been working hard all day , he took the child , and carried her with him . 
She clung to him so , pressing her tear wet radiant face against his , that her little arms threatened to choke him . 
When he re entered the chamber , he found the king sitting up in bed , fighting the phantoms of some hideous dream . 
Generally upon such occasions , although he saw his watcher , he could not dissociate him from the dream , and went raving on . 
He stretched out his arms to her , the child stretched out hers to him , and in five minutes they were both asleep , each in the other's embrace . 
The colonel of the guard also was growing better . 
Curdie went often to see him . 
He was very anxious about his regiment . 
The colonel agreed , and Curdie went not without his mattock , because of the dogs . 
The handwriting itself of their colonel was insufficient , counteracted by the fresh reports daily current , to destroy the lie . 
The major regarded the letter as a trap for the next officer in command , and sent his orderly to arrest the messenger . 
But Curdie had had the wisdom not to wait for an answer . 
CHAPTER Peter At the cottage in the mountain everything for a time went on just as before . 
'Why , that's never the emerald ! said Joan . 
'Run , run , Peter ! cried his wife . 
'Run and tell the old princess . 
it may not be too late . 
The boy must be lying at death's door . 
Without a word Peter caught up his mattock , darted from the cottage , and was at the bottom of the hill in less time than he usually took to get halfway . 
The door of the king's house stood open he rushed in and up the stair . 
But after wandering about in vain for an hour , opening door after door , and finding no way farther up , the heart of the old man had well nigh failed him . 
Empty rooms , empty rooms ! desertion and desolation everywhere . 
At last he did come upon the door to the tower stair . 
Arrived at the top , he found three doors , and , one after the other , knocked at them all . 
But there was neither voice nor hearing . 
Urged by his faith and his dread , slowly , hesitatingly , he opened one . 
It revealed a bare garret room , nothing in it but one chair and one spinning wheel . 
He opened the third door , and a rush like the tide of a living sea invaded his ears . 
The place felt like a tomb . 
There seemed no breath of life left in it . 
Despair laid hold upon him he rushed down thundering with heavy feet . 
What help lay in a miner's mattock , a man's arm , a father's heart , he would bear to his boy . 
Joan sat up all night waiting his return , hoping and hoping . 
The mountain was very still , and the sky was clear but all night long the miner sped northward , and the heart of his wife was troubled . 
None dared approach its gates , and seldom one issued from them . 
All the dwellers in the city were united in enmity to the palace . 
It swarmed with evil spirits , they said , whereas the evil spirits were in the city , unsuspected . 
But that same night , as soon as it was dark , Lina came to her master , and let him understand she wanted to go out . 
He unlocked a little private postern for her , left it so that she could push it open when she returned , and told the crocodile to stretch himself across it inside . 
Before midnight she came back with a young deer . 
Every night Lina went out hunting , and every morning Legserpent went out fishing , and both invalids and household had plenty to eat . 
As to news , the page , in plain clothes , would now and then venture out into the market place , and gather some . 
One night he came back with the report that the army of the king of Borsagrass had crossed the border . 
Two days after , he brought the news that the enemy was now but twenty miles from Gwyntystorm . 
The colonel of the guard rose , and began furbishing his armour but gave it over to the page , and staggered across to the barracks , which were in the next street . 
The sentry took him for a ghost or worse , ran into the guardroom , bolted the door , and stopped his ears . 
The poor colonel , who was yet hardly able to stand , crawled back despairing . 
If he died , he died for the right , and there was a right end of it . 
He had no preparations to make , except a good sleep . 
There , with an old mantle of the king's thrown over him , he was soon fast asleep . 
Somewhere about the middle of the night , he woke suddenly , started to his feet , and rubbed his eyes . 
He could not tell what had waked him . 
In the midst of the roses lay the king , moaning , but motionless . 
Then Curdie , no longer dazzled , saw and knew the old princess . 
The room was lighted with the splendour of her face , of her blue eyes , of her sapphire crown . 
Her golden hair went streaming out from her through the air till it went off in mist and light . 
She was large and strong as a Titaness . 
The miner boy turned silent away , and laid himself down again in the corridor . 
An absolute joy filled his heart , his bosom , his head , his whole body . 
All was safe all was well . 
With the helve of his mattock tight in his grasp , he sank into a dreamless sleep . 
CHAPTER The King's Army He woke like a giant refreshed with wine . 
He went up to the bed . 
The king opened his eyes , and the soul of perfect health shone out of them . 
Nor was Curdie amazed in his delight . 
'Is it not time to rise , Curdie ? said the king . 
'It is , Your Majesty . 
Today we must be doing , answered Curdie . 
'What must we be doing today , Curdie ? 'Fighting , sire . 
'Then fetch me my armour that of plated steel , in the chest there . 
You will find the underclothing with it . 
As he spoke , he reached out his hand for his sword , which hung in the bed before him , drew it , and examined the blade . 
'A little rusty ! he said , 'but the edge is there . 
We shall polish it ourselves today not on the wheel . 
Curdie , my son , I wake from a troubled dream . 
A glorious torture has ended it , and I live . 
I know now well how things are , but you shall explain them to me as I get on my armour . 
No , I need no bath . 
Call the colonel of the guard . 
In complete steel the old man stepped into the chamber . 
He knew it not , but the old princess had passed through his room in the night . 
'Where then are our soldiers ? 'Why , there and here , answered the king , pointing to the colonel first , and then to himself . 
'Where else , man ? The enemy will be upon us ere sunset , if we be not upon him ere noon . 
What other thing was in your brave brain when you donned your armour , friend ? 'Your Majesty's orders , sire , answered Sir Bronzebeard . 
The king smiled and turned to Curdie . 
'And what was in yours , Curdie , for your first word was of battle ? 'See , Your Majesty , answered Curdie 'I have polished my mattock . 
If Your Majesty had not taken the command , I would have met the enemy at the head of my beasts , and died in comfort , or done better . 
'Brave boy ! said the king . 
'He who takes his life in his hand is the only soldier . 
You shall head your beasts today . 
Sir Bronzebeard , will you die with me if need be ? 'Seven times , my king , said the colonel . 
'Then shall we win this battle ! said the king . 
'Curdie , go and bind securely the six , that we lose not their guards . 
Can you find me a horse , think you , Sir Bronzebeard ? Alas ! they told me my white charger was dead . 
'I will go and fright the varletry with my presence , and secure , I trust , a horse for Your Majesty , and one for myself . 
'Pardon me , sire , said Curdie 'a miner can fight best on foot . 
I might smite my horse dead under me with a missed blow . 
And besides that , I must be near to my beasts . 
'As you will , said the king . 
'Three horses then , Sir Bronzebeard . 
The colonel departed , doubting sorely in his heart how to accoutre and lead from the barrack stables three horses , in the teeth of his revolted regiment . 
In the hall he met the housemaid . 
'Can you lead a horse ? he asked . 
'Are you willing to die for the king ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Can you do as you are bid ? 'I can keep on trying , sir . 
Were I not a man I would be a woman such as you . 
When they entered the barrack yard , the soldiers scattered like autumn leaves before a blast of winter . 
Having found him , he returned to saddle first the king's . 
But the maid had already the saddle upon him , and so girt that the colonel could thrust no finger tip between girth and skin . 
He left her to finish what she had so well begun , and went and made ready his own . 
He then chose for the princess a great red horse , twenty years old , which he knew to possess every equine virtue . 
This and his own he led to the palace , and the maid led the king's . 
The king and Curdie stood in the court , the king in full armour of silvered steel , with a circlet of rubies and diamonds round his helmet . 
He almost leaped for joy when he saw his great white charger come in , gentle as a child to the hand of the housemaid . 
But when the horse saw his master in his armour , he reared and bounded in jubilation , yet did not break from the hand that held him . 
Then out came the princess attired and ready , with a hunting knife her father had given her by her side . 
They brought her mother's saddle , splendent with gems and gold , set it on the great red horse , and lifted her to it . 
But the saddle was so big , and the horse so tall , that the child found no comfort in them . 
'Please , King Papa , she said , 'can I not have my white pony ? 'I did not think of him , little one , said the king . 
'Where is he ? 'In the stable , answered the maid . 
'I found him half starved , the only horse within the gates , the day after the servants were driven out . 
He has been well fed since . 
'Go and fetch him , said the king . 
As the maid appeared with the pony , from a side door came Lina and the forty nine , following Curdie . 
'I will go with Curdie and the Uglies , cried the princess and as soon as she was mounted she got into the middle of the pack . 
So out they set , the strangest force that ever went against an enemy . 
Then first Curdie saw that the housemaid , whom they had all forgotten , was following , mounted on the great red horse , and seated in the royal saddle . 
And now on the heels of the king's army rushed out the women and children also , to gather flowers and branches , wherewith to welcome their conquerors . 
CHAPTER The Battle He commanded the page to blow his trumpet and , in the strength of the moment , the youth uttered a right warlike defiance . 
The butchers came on first for the guards had slackened their saddle girths brandishing their knives , and talking to their dogs . 
Curdie and the page , with Lina and her pack , bounded to meet them . 
Curdie struck down the foremost with his mattock . 
The page , finding his sword too much for him , threw it away and seized the butcher's knife , which as he rose he plunged into the foremost dog . 
Lina rushed raging and gnashing among them . 
When they were all down , then indeed she flashed among the dogs . 
Meantime the king and the colonel had spurred toward the advancing guard . 
The king clove the major through skull and collar bone , and the colonel stabbed the captain in the throat . 
Then a fierce combat commenced two against many . 
But the butchers and their dogs quickly disposed of , up came Curdie and his beasts . 
The horses of the guard , struck with terror , turned in spite of the spur , and fled in confusion . 
Thereupon the forces of Borsagrass , which could see little of the affair , but correctly imagined a small determined body in front of them , hastened to the attack . 
A dense cloud came over the sun , and sank rapidly toward the earth . 
Down swooped the birds upon the invaders right in the face of man and horse they flew with swift beating wings , blinding eyes and confounding brain . 
Horses reared and plunged and wheeled . 
All was at once in confusion . 
The men made frantic efforts to seize their tormentors , but not one could they touch and they outdoubled them in numbers . 
Between every wild clutch came a peck of beak and a buffet of pinion in the face . 
So mingled the feathered multitude in the grim game of war . 
It was a storm in which the wind was birds , and the sea men . 
And ever as each bird arrived at the rear of the enemy , it turned , ascended , and sped to the front to charge again . 
The moment the battle began , the princess's pony took fright , and turned and fled . 
But the maid wheeled her horse across the road and stopped him and they waited together the result of the battle . 
Strange also it seemed that the maid should be constantly waving her arm toward the battle . 
The moment a pigeon had rounded her head , it went off straight as bolt from bow , and with trebled velocity . 
But of these strange things , others besides the princess had taken note . 
His rider shot over his head and lay stunned . 
Had not the great red horse reared and wheeled , he would have fallen beneath that of the general . 
With lifted sabre , one of his attendant officers rode at the miner . 
But a mass of pigeons darted in the faces of him and his horse , and the next moment he lay beside his commander . 
The rest of them turned and fled , pursued by the birds . 
'Ah , friend Peter ! said the maid 'thou hast come as I told thee ! Welcome and thanks ! By this time the battle was over . 
The enemy stormed back upon their own camp , with the beasts roaring in the midst of them , and the king and his army , now reinforced by one , pursuing . 
But presently the king drew rein . 
'Call off your hounds , Curdie , and let the pigeons do the rest , he shouted , and turned to see what had become of the princess . 
Homeward they rushed the road they had come , straight for the borders , many dropping from pure fatigue , and lying where they fell . 
And still the pigeons were in their necks as they ran . 
At length to the eyes of the king and his army nothing was visible save a dust cloud below , and a bird cloud above . 
Before night the bird cloud came back , flying high over Gwyntystorm . 
Sinking swiftly , it disappeared among the ancient roofs of the palace . 
CHAPTER Judgement The king and his army returned , bringing with them one prisoner only , the lord chancellor . 
Curdie had dragged him from under a fallen tent , not by the hand of a man , but by the foot of a mule . 
When they entered the city , it was still as the grave . 
The citizens had fled home . 
'We must submit , they cried , 'or the king and his demons will destroy us . 
The king rode through the streets in silence , ill pleased with his people . 
Bury your dead , and bring home your wounded . 
Then he turned him gloomily to the palace . 
They found Derba returned before them , and already busy preparing them food . 
The king put up his charger with his own hands , rubbed him down , and fed him . 
By this time the people were crowding back into the city , bearing their dead and wounded . 
And there was lamentation in Gwyntystorm , for no one could comfort himself , and no one had any to comfort him . 
The nation was victorious , but the people were conquered . 
The king stood in the centre of the market place , upon the steps of the ancient cross . 
He had laid aside his helmet and put on his crown , but he stood all armed beside , with his sword in his hand . 
He called the people to him , and , for all the terror of the beasts , they dared not disobey him . 
Those , even , who were carrying their wounded laid them down , and drew near trembling . 
Then the king said to Curdie and the page 'Set the evil men before me . 
Now shall ye be ruled with a rod of iron , that ye may learn what freedom is , and love it and seek it . 
These wretches I will send where they shall mislead you no longer . 
He made a sign to Curdie , who immediately brought up the legserpent . 
To the body of the animal they bound the lord chamberlain , speechless with horror . 
The butler began to shriek and pray , but they bound him on the back of Clubhead . 
One after another , upon the largest of the creatures they bound the whole seven , each through the unveiling terror looking the villain he was . 
Then said the king 'I thank you , my good beasts and I hope to visit you ere long . 
Take these evil men with you , and go to your place . 
Like a whirlwind they were in the crowd , scattering it like dust . 
Like hounds they rushed from the city , their burdens howling and raving . 
What became of them I have never heard . 
Then the king turned once more to the people and said , 'Go to your houses' nor vouchsafed them another word . 
They crept home like chidden hounds . 
The king returned to the palace . 
He made the colonel a duke , and the page a knight , and Peter he appointed general of all his mines . 
But to Curdie he said 'You are my own boy , Curdie . 
My child cannot choose but love you , and when you are grown up if you both will you shall marry each other , and be king and queen when I am gone . 
Till then be the king's Curdie . 
Irene held out her arms to Curdie . 
He raised her in his , and she kissed him . 
'And my Curdie too ! she said . 
Thereafter the people called him Prince Conrad but the king always called him either just Curdie , or my miner boy . 
They sat down to supper , and Derba and the knight and the housemaid waited , and Barbara sat at the king's left hand . 
And Curdie started , and sprang from his seat , and dropped on his knees , and burst into tears . 
Her face was radiant with joy , the joy overshadowed by a faint mist as of unfulfilment . 
The king rose and kneeled on one knee before her . 
All kneeled in like homage . 
Then the king would have yielded her his royal chair . 
But she made them all sit down , and with her own hands placed at the table seats for Derba and the page . 
Then in ruby crown and royal purple she served them all . 
CHAPTER The End The king sent Curdie out into his dominions to search for men and women that had human hands . 
And many such he found , honest and true , and brought them to his master . 
So a new and upright court was formed , and strength returned to the nation . 
But the exchequer was almost empty , for the evil men had squandered everything , and the king hated taxes unwillingly paid . 
Then came Curdie and said to the king that the city stood upon gold . 
The same day on which he found his boy , Peter set out to go home . 
When he told the good news to Joan , his wife , she rose from her chair and said , 'Let us go . 
And they left the cottage , and repaired to Gwyntystorm . 
And on a mountain above the city they built themselves a warm house for their old age , high in the clear air . 
Queen Irene that was the right name of the old princess was thereafter seldom long absent from the palace . 
Curdie thought that perhaps her business might be with others there as well . 
All the uppermost rooms in the palace were left to her use , and when any one was in need of her help , up thither he must go . 
But even when she was there , he did not always succeed in finding her . 
She , however , always knew that such a one had been looking for her . 
Curdie went to find her one day . 
The queen was casting roses , more and more roses , upon the fire . 
At last she turned and said , 'Now Lina ! and Lina dashed burrowing into the fire . 
There went up a black smoke and a dust , and Lina was never more seen in the palace . 
Irene and Curdie were married . 
The old king died , and they were king and queen . 
As long as they lived Gwyntystorm was a better city , and good people grew in it . 
But they had no children , and when they died the people chose a king . 
Rapidly they sank toward their old wickedness . 
But still the king went on mining , and coining gold by the pailful , until the people were worse even than in the old time . 
And from the girth of an oak of a thousand years , they chipped them down to that of a fir tree of fifty . 
One day at noon , when life was at its highest , the whole city fell with a roaring crash . 
The cries of men and the shrieks of women went up with its dust , and then there was a great silence . 
Where the mighty rock once towered , crowded with homes and crowned with a palace , now rushes and raves a stone obstructed rapid of the river . 
All around spreads a wilderness of wild deer , and the very name of Gwyntystorm had ceased from the lips of men . 
