THE PRINCESS AND THE GOBLIN GEORGE MACDONALD CONTENTS . 
Why the Princess Has a Story About Her . 
The Princess and We Shall See Who . 
What the Nurse Thought of It . 
The Princess Lets Well Alone . 
The Hall of the Goblin Palace . 
A Short Chapter About Curdie . 
The Old Lady and Curdie . 
Irene Behaves Like a Princess . 
The Goblins in the King's House . 
The King and the Kiss . 
The Last Chapter CHAPTER Why the Princess Has a Story About Her There was once a little princess whose father was king over a great country full of mountains and valleys . 
His palace was built upon one of the mountains , and was very grand and beautiful . 
The princess was a sweet little creature , and at the time my story begins was about eight years old , I think , but she got older very fast . 
Her face was fair and pretty , with eyes like two bits of night sky , each with a star dissolved in the blue . 
Those eyes you would have thought must have known they came from there , so often were they turned up in that direction . 
The ceiling of her nursery was blue , with stars in it , as like the sky as they could make it . 
But I doubt if ever she saw the real sky with the stars in it , for a reason which I had better mention at once . 
In the course of digging , the miners came upon many of these natural caverns . 
A few of them had far off openings out on the side of a mountain , or into a ravine . 
Now in these subterranean caverns lived a strange race of beings , called by some gnomes , by some kobolds , by some goblins . 
There was a legend current in the country that at one time they lived above ground , and were very like other people . 
It was only in the least frequented and most difficult parts of the mountains that they were said to gather even at night in the open air . 
They were now , not ordinarily ugly , but either absolutely hideous , or ludicrously grotesque both in face and form . 
There was no invention , they said , of the most lawless imagination expressed by pen or pencil , that could surpass the extravagance of their appearance . 
But I suspect those who said so had mistaken some of their animal companions for the goblins themselves of which more by and by . 
The goblins themselves were not so far removed from the human as such a description would imply . 
And as they grew misshapen in body they had grown in knowledge and cleverness , and now were able to do things no mortal could see the possibility of . 
It will now be pretty evident why the little princess had never seen the sky at night . 
CHAPTER The Princess Loses Herself I have said the Princess Irene was about eight years old when my story begins . 
And this is how it begins . 
She got very tired , so tired that even her toys could no longer amuse her . 
You would wonder at that if I had time to describe to you one half of the toys she had . 
But then , you wouldn't have the toys themselves , and that makes all the difference you can't get tired of a thing before you have it . 
It was a picture , though , worth seeing the princess sitting in the nursery with the sky ceiling over her head , at a great table covered with her toys . 
If the artist would like to draw this , I should advise him not to meddle with the toys . 
I am afraid of attempting to describe them , and I think he had better not try to draw them . 
He can do a thousand things I can't , but I don't think he could draw those toys . 
The next moment after you see her sitting there , her nurse goes out of the room . 
Even that is a change , and the princess wakes up a little , and looks about her . 
She had once before been up six steps , and that was sufficient reason , in such a day , for trying to find out what was at the top of it . 
Up and up she ran such a long way it seemed to her ! until she came to the top of the third flight . 
There she found the landing was the end of a long passage . 
It was full of doors on each side . 
There were so many that she did not care to open any , but ran on to the end , where she turned into another passage , also full of doors . 
When she had turned twice more , and still saw doors and only doors about her , she began to get frightened . 
It was so silent ! And all those doors must hide rooms with nobody in them ! That was dreadful . 
Also the rain made a great trampling noise on the roof . 
She turned and started at full speed , her little footsteps echoing through the sounds of the rain back for the stairs and her safe nursery . 
So she thought , but she had lost herself long ago . 
It doesn't follow that she was lost , because she had lost herself , though . 
She ran for some distance , turned several times , and then began to be afraid . 
Very soon she was sure that she had lost the way back . 
Rooms everywhere , and no stair ! Her little heart beat as fast as her little feet ran , and a lump of tears was growing in her throat . 
But she was too eager and perhaps too frightened to cry for some time . 
At last her hope failed her . 
Nothing but passages and doors everywhere ! She threw herself on the floor , and burst into a wailing cry broken by sobs . 
She did not cry long , however , for she was as brave as could be expected of a princess of her age . 
After a good cry , she got up , and brushed the dust from her frock . 
This she did , but without success . 
She went over the same ground again an again without knowing it , for the passages and doors were all alike . 
At last , in a corner , through a half open door , she did see a stair . 
But alas ! it went the wrong way instead of going down , it went up . 
Frightened as she was , however , she could not help wishing to see where yet further the stair could lead . 
It was very narrow , and so steep that she went on like a four legged creature on her hands and feet . 
She stood for a moment , without an idea in her little head what to do next . 
But as she stood , she began to hear a curious humming sound . 
Could it be the rain ? No. It was much more gentle , and even monotonous than the sound of the rain , which now she scarcely heard . 
The low sweet humming sound went on , sometimes stopping for a little while and then beginning again . 
Where could it come from ? She laid her ear first to one of the doors to hearken if it was there then to another . 
When she laid her ear against the third door , there could be no doubt where it came from it must be from something in that room . 
What could it be ? She was rather afraid , but her curiosity was stronger than her fear , and she opened the door very gently and peeped in . 
What do you think she saw ? A very old lady who sat spinning . 
I will tell you more . 
Her hair was combed back from her forehead and face , and hung loose far down and all over her back . 
That is not much like an old lady is it ? Ah ! but it was white almost as snow . 
And although her face was so smooth , her eyes looked so wise that you could not have helped seeing she must be old . 
The princess , though she could not have told you why , did think her very old indeed quite fifty , she said to herself . 
But she was rather older than that , as you shall hear . 
I am glad to see you . 
She did as she was told , stepped inside the door at once , and shut it gently behind her . 
'Come to me , my dear , said the old lady . 
And again the princess did as she was told . 
'Why , what have you been doing with your eyes , child ? asked the old lady . 
'Crying , answered the princess . 
'Why , child ? 'Because I couldn't find my way down again . 
'But you could find your way up . 
'Not at first not for a long time . 
'But your face is streaked like the back of a zebra . 
Hadn't you a handkerchief to wipe your eyes with ? 'No . 
'Then why didn't you come to me to wipe them for you ? 'Please , I didn't know you were here . 
'There's a good child ! said the old lady . 
She was dressed in black velvet with thick white heavy looking lace about it and on the black dress her hair shone like silver . 
There was hardly any more furniture in the room than there might have been in that of the poorest old woman who made her bread by her spinning . 
There was no carpet on the floor no table anywhere nothing but the spinning wheel and the chair beside it . 
'That's my name ! cried the princess . 
I let you have mine . 
I haven't got your name . 
'How can that be ? asked the princess , bewildered . 
'I've always had my name . 
'Your papa , the king , asked me if I had any objection to your having it and , of course , I hadn't . 
I let you have it with pleasure . 
'It was very kind of you to give me your name and such a pretty one , said the princess . 
'Oh , not so very kind ! said the old lady . 
'A name is one of those things one can give away and keep all the same . 
I have a good many such things . 
Wouldn't you like to know who I am , child ? 'Yes , that I should very much . 
'I'm your great great grandmother , said the lady . 
'What's that ? asked the princess . 
'I'm your father's mother's father's mother . 
'Oh , dear ! I can't understand that , said the princess . 
I didn't expect you would . 
But that's no reason why I shouldn't say it . 
'Oh , no ! answered the princess . 
'I will explain it all to you when you are older , the lady went on . 
'But you will be able to understand this much now I came here to take care of you . 
'What a long time ! said the princess . 
'I don't remember it at all . 
'But I never saw you before . 
But you shall see me again . 
'Do you live in this room always ? 'I don't sleep in it . 
I sleep on the opposite side of the landing . 
I sit here most of the day . 
My nursery is much prettier . 
You must be a queen too , if you are my great big grand mother . 
'Yes , I am a queen . 
'Where is your crown , then ? 'In my bedroom . 
'I should like to see it . 
'You shall some day not today . 
'I wonder why nursie never told me . 
'But somebody knows that you are in the house ? 'No nobody . 
'How do you get your dinner , then ? 'I keep poultry of a sort . 
'Where do you keep them ? 'I will show you . 
'And who makes the chicken broth for you ? 'I never kill any of MY chickens . 
'What did you have for breakfast this morning ? asked the lady . 
'Oh ! I had bread and milk , and an egg I dare say you eat their eggs . 
'Is that what makes your hair so white ? 'No , my dear . 
Are you fifty ? 'Yes more than that . 
'Are you a hundred ? 'Yes more than that . 
I am too old for you to guess . 
Come and see my chickens . 
Again she stopped her spinning . 
She rose , took the princess by the hand , led her out of the room , and opened the door opposite the stair . 
She clapped her hands with delight , and up rose such a flapping of wings that she in her turn was startled . 
'You've frightened my poultry , said the old lady , smiling . 
'And they've frightened me , said the princess , smiling too . 
'But what very nice poultry ! Are the eggs nice ? 'Yes , very nice . 
If they couldn't fly , I couldn't eat their eggs . 
The birds came in at the other side , and she took out the eggs on this side . 
She closed it again quickly , lest the young ones should be frightened . 
'Oh , what a nice way ! cried the princess . 
'Will you give me an egg to eat ? I'm rather hungry . 
'I will some day , but now you must go back , or nursie will be miserable about you . 
I dare say she's looking for you everywhere . 
'Except here , answered the princess . 
'Oh , how surprised she will be when I tell her about my great big grand grand mother ! 'Yes , that she will ! said the old lady with a curious smile . 
'Mind you tell her all about it exactly . 
About this spinning of hers I will tell you more another time . 
Guess what she was spinning . 
CHAPTER What the Nurse Thought of It 'Why , where can you have been , princess ? asked the nurse , taking her in her arms . 
'It's very unkind of you to hide away so long . 
I began to be afraid Here she checked herself . 
'What were you afraid of , nursie ? asked the princess . 
'Never mind , she answered . 
'Perhaps I will tell you another day . 
Now tell me where you have been . 
'I've been up a long way to see my very great , huge , old grandmother , said the princess . 
'What do you mean by that ? asked the nurse , who thought she was making fun . 
'I mean that I've been a long way up and up to see My GREAT grandmother . 
Ah , nursie , you don't know what a beautiful mother of grandmothers I've got upstairs . 
She is such an old lady , with such lovely white hair as white as my silver cup . 
Now , when I think of it , I think her hair must be silver . 
'What nonsense you are talking , princess ! said the nurse . 
'I'm not talking nonsense , returned Irene , rather offended . 
'I will tell you all about her . 
She's much taller than you , and much prettier . 
'Oh , I dare say ! remarked the nurse . 
'And she lives upon pigeons' eggs . 
'Most likely , said the nurse . 
'And she sits in an empty room , spin spinning all day long . 
'Not a doubt of it , said the nurse . 
'And she keeps her crown in her bedroom . 
'Of course quite the proper place to keep her crown in . 
She wears it in bed , I'll be bound . 
And I don't think she does . 
That wouldn't be comfortable would it ? I don't think my papa wears his crown for a night cap . 
Does he , nursie ? 'I never asked him . 
I dare say he does . 
'And she's been there ever since I came here ever so many years . 
'Anybody could have told you that , said the nurse , who did not believe a word Irene was saying . 
'Why didn't you tell me , then ? 'There was no necessity . 
You could make it all up for yourself . 
'You don't believe me , then ! exclaimed the princess , astonished and angry , as she well might be . 
'Did you expect me to believe you , princess ? asked the nurse coldly . 
The princess burst into tears . 
'But it's quite true , I tell you . 
'You've dreamt it , then , child . 
'No , I didn't dream it . 
I went upstairs , and I lost myself , and if I hadn't found the beautiful lady , I should never have found myself . 
'Oh , I dare say ! 'Well , you just come up with me , and see if I'm not telling the truth . 
'Indeed I have other work to do . 
It's your dinnertime , and I won't have any more such nonsense . 
The princess wiped her eyes , and her face grew so hot that they were soon quite dry . 
She sat down to her dinner , but ate next to nothing . 
Not to be believed does not at all agree with princesses for a real princess cannot tell a lie . 
So all the afternoon she did not speak a word . 
Only when the nurse spoke to her , she answered her , for a real princess is never rude even when she does well to be offended . 
She thought her crossness was the cause of the princess's unhappiness , and had no idea that she was really and deeply hurt at not being believed . 
When bedtime came , she undressed and laid her down , but the child , instead of holding up her little mouth to be kissed , turned away from her and lay still . 
Then nursie's heart gave way altogether , and she began to cry . 
At the sound of her first sob the princess turned again , and held her face to kiss her as usual . 
But the nurse had her handkerchief to her eyes , and did not see the movement . 
'Nursie , said the princess , 'why won't you believe me ? 'Because I can't believe you , said the nurse , getting angry again . 
'Ah ! then , you can't help it , said Irene , 'and I will not be vexed with you any more . 
I will give you a kiss and go to sleep . 
'You little angel ! cried the nurse , and caught her out of bed , and walked about the room with her in her arms , kissing and hugging her . 
'You will let me take you to see my dear old great big grandmother , won't you ? said the princess , as she laid her down again . 
'And you won't say I'm ugly , any more will you , princess ? 'Nursie , I never said you were ugly . 
What can you mean ? 'Well , if you didn't say it , you meant it . 
'Indeed , I never did . 
'You said I wasn't so pretty as that 'As my beautiful grandmother yes , I did say that and I say it again , for it's quite true . 
'Then I do think you are unkind ! said the nurse , and put her handkerchief to her eyes again . 
'Nursie , dear , everybody can't be as beautiful as every other body , you know . 
You are very nice looking , but if you had been as beautiful as my grandmother 'Bother your grandmother ! said the nurse . 
'Nurse , that's very rude . 
You are not fit to be spoken to till you can behave better . 
The princess turned away once more , and again the nurse was ashamed of herself . 
'I'm sure I beg your pardon , princess , she said , though still in an offended tone . 
But the princess let the tone pass , and heeded only the words . 
'You won't say it again , I am sure , she answered , once more turning towards her nurse . 
CHAPTER The Princess Lets Well Alone When she woke the next morning , the first thing she heard was the rain still falling . 
Indeed , this day was so like the last that it would have been difficult to tell where was the use of It . 
So the princess resolved to take the first opportunity of running up alone and asking whether she might bring her nurse . 
She believed the fact that she could not otherwise convince her she was telling the truth would have much weight with her grandmother . 
The princess and her nurse were the best of friends all dressing time , and the princess in consequence ate an enormous little breakfast . 
'We'll get you a pigeon's egg , and you shall judge for yourself , said the nurse . 
Of course she could refuse to take her , but then she would believe her less than ever . 
So she soon gave her a chance , and , the very first that offered , Irene was off and up the stairs again . 
The princess ran through passage after passage , and could not find the stair of the tower . 
My own suspicion is that she had not gone up high enough , and was searching on the second instead of the third floor . 
When she turned to go back , she failed equally in her search after the stair . 
She was lost once more . 
Something made it even worse to bear this time , and it was no wonder that she cried again . 
Suddenly it occurred to her that it was after having cried before that she had found her grandmother's stair . 
She got up at once , wiped her eyes , and started upon a fresh quest . 
There , to her surprise , she found herself in the kitchen . 
Although she was not allowed to go there alone , her nurse had often taken her , and she was a great favourite with the servants . 
So there was a general rush at her the moment she appeared , for every one wanted to have her and the report of where she was soon reached the nurse's ears . 
She came at once to fetch her but she never suspected how she had got there , and the princess kept her own counsel . 
Her failure to find the old lady not only disappointed her , but made her very thoughtful . 
Sometimes she came almost to the nurse's opinion that she had dreamed all about her but that fancy never lasted very long . 
She wondered much whether she should ever see her again , and thought it very sad not to have been able to find her when she particularly wanted her . 
She resolved to say nothing more to her nurse on the subject , seeing it was so little in her power to prove her words . 
CHAPTER The Little Miner The next day the great cloud still hung over the mountain , and the rain poured like water from a full sponge . 
The princess was very fond of being out of doors , and she nearly cried when she saw that the weather was no better . 
Look how bright he is ! Do get my hat , and let us go out for a walk . 
Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! how happy I am ! Lootie was very glad to please the princess . 
The clouds were rolling away in broken pieces , like great , overwoolly sheep , whose wool the sun had bleached till it was almost too white for the eyes to bear . 
Between them the sky shone with a deeper and purer blue , because of the rain . 
The trees on the roadside were hung all over with drops , which sparkled in the sun like jewels . 
But Irene was in raptures with the great brown streams tumbling down everywhere and Lootie shared in her delight , for she too had been confined to the house for three days . 
At length she observed that the sun was getting low , and said it was time to be going back . 
Suddenly the shadow of a great mountain peak came up from behind , and shot in front of them . 
When the nurse saw it , she started and shook , and catching hold of the princess's hand turned and began to run down the hill . 
'What's all the haste , nursie ? asked Irene , running alongside of her . 
'We must not be out a moment longer . 
'But we can't help being out a good many moments longer . 
They were much too far from home . 
It was no wonder she ran . 
But Irene was not in the least frightened , not knowing anything to be frightened at . 
She kept on chattering as well as she could , but it was not easy . 
'Lootie ! Lootie ! why do you run so fast ? It shakes my teeth when I talk . 
'Then don't talk , said Lootie . 
'But the princess went on talking . 
She was always saying 'Look , look , Lootie ! but Lootie paid no more heed to anything she said , only ran on . 
'Look , look , Lootie ! Don't you see that funny man peeping over the rock ? Lootie only ran the faster . 
They had to pass the rock , and when they came nearer , the princess saw it was only a lump of the rock itself that she had taken for a man . 
'Look , look , Lootie ! There's such a curious creature at the foot of that old tree . 
Look at it , Lootie ! It's making faces at us , I do think . 
Lootie gave a stifled cry , and ran faster still so fast that Irene's little legs could not keep up with her , and she fell with a crash . 
It was a hard downhill road , and she had been running very fast so it was no wonder she began to cry . 
This put the nurse nearly beside herself but all she could do was to run on , the moment she got the princess on her feet again . 
'Who's that laughing at me ? said the princess , trying to keep in her sobs , and running too fast for her grazed knees . 
'Nobody , child , said the nurse , almost angrily . 
'Nursie ! Lootie ! I can't run any more . 
Do let us walk a bit . 
'What am I to do ? said the nurse . 
'Here , I will carry you . 
She caught her up but found her much too heavy to run with , and had to set her down again . 
Then she looked wildly about her , gave a great cry , and said 'We've taken the wrong turning somewhere , and I don't know where we are . 
We are lost , lost ! The terror she was in had quite bewildered her . 
It was true enough they had lost the way . 
They had been running down into a little valley in which there was no house to be seen . 
Before , however , she had time to grow thoroughly alarmed like her , she heard the sound of whistling , and that revived her . 
Presently she saw a boy coming up the road from the valley to meet them . 
He was the whistler but before they met his whistling changed to singing . 
Ten , eleven , twelve Loosely hold the helve . 
We're the merry miner boys , Make the goblins hold their noise . 
'I wish YOU would hold your noise , said the nurse rudely , for the very word GOBLIN at such a time and in such a place made her tremble . 
It would bring the goblins upon them to a certainty , she thought , to defy them in that way . 
But whether the boy heard her or not , he did not stop his singing . 
'Thirteen , fourteen , fifteen This is worth the siftin' Sixteen , seventeen , eighteen There's the match , and lay't in . 
Nineteen , twenty Goblins in a plenty . 
'Do be quiet , cried the nurse , in a whispered shriek . 
But the boy , who was now close at hand , still went on . 
'There ! that'll do for them . 
They can't bear singing , and they can't stand that song . 
They can't sing themselves , for they have no more voice than a crow and they don't like other people to sing . 
The boy was dressed in a miner's dress , with a curious cap on his head . 
He was a very nice looking boy , with eyes as dark as the mines in which he worked and as sparkling as the crystals in their rocks . 
He was about twelve years old . 
'I saw them , he went on , 'as I came up and I'm very glad I did . 
I knew they were after somebody , but I couldn't see who it was . 
They won't touch you so long as I'm with you . 
'Why , who are you ? asked the nurse , offended at the freedom with which he spoke to them . 
'Who's Peter ? 'Peter the miner . 
'I'm his son , though . 
'And why should the goblins mind you , pray ? 'Because I don't mind them . 
'What difference does that make ? 'If you're not afraid of them , they're afraid of you . 
I'm not afraid of them . 
But it's all that's wanted up here , that is . 
It's a different thing down there . 
They won't always mind that song even , down there . 
'Don't go frightening the princess , said the nurse . 
'The princess ! repeated the little miner , taking off his curious cap . 
'I beg your pardon but you oughtn't to be out so late . 
Everybody knows that's against the law . 
'Yes , indeed it is ! said the nurse , beginning to cry again . 
'And I shall have to suffer for it . 
'What does that matter ? said the boy . 
'It must be your fault . 
It is the princess who will suffer for it . 
I hope they didn't hear you call her the princess . 
If they did , they're sure to know her again they're awfully sharp . 
'Lootie ! Lootie ! cried the princess . 
'Don't go on like that , said the nurse to the boy , almost fiercely . 
'How could I help it ? I lost my way . 
'You shouldn't have been out so late . 
You wouldn't have lost your way if you hadn't been frightened , said the boy . 
I'll soon set you right again . 
'No , thank you , said Irene . 
'I can walk very well , though I can't run so fast as nursie . 
If you will give me one hand , Lootie will give me another , and then I shall get on famously . 
They soon had her between them , holding a hand of each . 
'Now let's run , said the nurse . 
'No , no ! said the little miner . 
'That's the worst thing you can do . 
If you hadn't run before , you would not have lost your way . 
And if you run now , they will be after you in a moment . 
'I don't want to run , said Irene . 
'You don't think of me , said the nurse . 
'Yes , I do , Lootie . 
The boy says they won't touch us if we don't run . 
'Yes , but if they know at the house that I've kept you out so late I shall be turned away , and that would break my heart . 
'Turned away , Lootie ! Who would turn you away ? 'Your papa , child . 
'But I'll tell him it was all my fault . 
And you know it was , Lootie . 
'Then I'll cry , and go down on my knees to him , and beg him not to take away my own dear Lootie . 
The nurse was comforted at hearing this , and said no more . 
They went on , walking pretty fast , but taking care not to run a step . 
'I want to talk to you , said Irene to the little miner 'but it's so awkward ! I don't know your name . 
'My name's Curdie , little princess . 
'What a funny name ! Curdie ! What more ? 'Curdie Peterson . 
What's your name , please ? 'Irene . 
'What more ? 'I don't know what more . 
What more is my name , Lootie ? 'Princesses haven't got more than one name . 
'Oh , then , Curdie , you must call me just Irene and no more . 
'No , indeed , said the nurse indignantly . 
'He shall do no such thing . 
'What shall he call me , then , Lootie ? 'Your Royal Highness . 
'My Royal Highness ! What's that ? No , no , Lootie . 
I won't be called names . 
You told me once yourself it's only rude children that call names and I'm sure Curdie wouldn't be rude . 
Curdie , my name's Irene . 
'Well , Irene , said Curdie , with a glance at the nurse which showed he enjoyed teasing her 'it is very kind of you to let me call you anything . 
I like your name very much . 
He expected the nurse to interfere again but he soon saw that she was too frightened to speak . 
She was staring at something a few yards before them in the middle of the path , where it narrowed between rocks so that only one could pass at a time . 
'It is very much kinder of you to go out of your way to take us home , said Irene . 
'I'm not going out of my way yet , said Curdie . 
'It's on the other side of those rocks the path turns off to my father's . 
'You wouldn't think of leaving us till we're safe home , I'm sure , gasped the nurse . 
'Of course not , said Curdie . 
'You dear , good , kind Curdie ! I'll give you a kiss when we get home , said the princess . 
The nurse gave her a great pull by the hand she held . 
But at that instant the something in the middle of the way , which had looked like a great lump of earth brought down by the rain , began to move . 
One after another it shot out four long things , like two arms and two legs , but it was now too dark to tell what they were . 
The nurse began to tremble from head to foot . 
It gave a great spring , and ran straight up one of the rocks like a huge spider . 
Curdie turned back laughing , and took Irene's hand again . 
She grasped his very tight , but said nothing till they had passed the rocks . 
A few yards more and she found herself on a part of the road she knew , and was able to speak again . 
'Do you know , Curdie , I don't quite like your song it sounds to me rather rude , she said . 
'Well , perhaps it is , answered Curdie . 
'I never thought of that it's a way we have . 
We do it because they don't like it . 
'Who don't like it ? 'The cobs , as we call them . 
'Don't ! said the nurse . 
'Why not ? said Curdie . 
'Oh ! if you ask me that way , of course , I won't though I don't a bit know why . 
Look ! there are the lights of your great house down below . 
You'll be at home in five minutes now . 
They reached home in safety . 
Nobody had missed them , or even known they had gone out and they arrived at the door belonging to their part of the house without anyone seeing them . 
'Lootie ! Lootie ! I promised a kiss , cried Irene . 
'A princess mustn't give kisses . 
It's not at all proper , said Lootie . 
'But I promised , said the princess . 
'There's no occasion he's only a miner boy . 
'He's a good boy , and a brave boy , and he has been very kind to us . 
Lootie ! Lootie ! I promised . 
'Then you shouldn't have promised . 
'Lootie , I promised him a kiss . 
'Your Royal Highness , said Lootie , suddenly grown very respectful , 'must come in directly . 
'Nurse , a princess must not break her word , said Irene , drawing herself up and standing stock still . 
Lootie did not know which the king might count the worst to let the princess be out after sunset , or to let her kiss a miner boy . 
She did not know that , being a gentleman , as many kings have been , he would have counted neither of them the worse . 
However much he might have disliked his daughter to kiss the miner boy , he would not have had her break her word for all the goblins in creation . 
But here Curdie came again to the rescue . 
'Never mind , Princess Irene , he said . 
'You mustn't kiss me tonight . 
But you shan't break your word . 
I will come another time . 
You may be sure I will . 
'Oh , thank you , Curdie ! said the princess , and stopped crying . 
'Good night , Irene good night , Lootie , said Curdie , and turned and was out of sight in a moment . 
'I should like to see him ! muttered the nurse , as she carried the princess to the nursery . 
'You will see him , said Irene . 
'You may be sure Curdie will keep his word . 
He's sure to come again . 
'I should like to see him ! repeated the nurse , and said no more . 
She did not want to open a new cause of strife with the princess by saying more plainly what she meant . 
Glad enough that she had succeeded both in getting home unseen , and in keeping the princess from kissing the miner's boy , she resolved to watch her far better in future . 
Her carelessness had already doubled the danger she was in . 
Formerly the goblins were her only fear now she had to protect her charge from Curdie as well . 
CHAPTER The Mines Curdie went home whistling . 
He saw no more of the goblins , and was soon fast asleep in his bed . 
He woke in the middle of the night , and thought he heard curious noises outside . 
He sat up and listened then got up , and , opening the door very quietly , went out . 
When he peeped round the corner , he saw , under his own window , a group of stumpy creatures , whom he at once recognized by their shape . 
Hardly , however , had he begun his 'One , two , three ! when they broke asunder , scurried away , and were out of sight . 
He returned laughing , got into bed again , and was fast asleep in a moment . 
By the time he was dressed , however , he was thinking of something quite different , for he did not value the enmity of the goblins in the least . 
As soon as they had had breakfast , he set off with his father for the mine . 
They entered the hill by a natural opening under a huge rock , where a little stream rushed out . 
They followed its course for a few yards , when the passage took a turn , and sloped steeply into the heart of the hill . 
This was of various kinds , for the mountain was very rich in the better sorts of metals . 
But you could not tell night from day down there , except from feeling tired and sleepy for no light of the sun ever came into those gloomy regions . 
They worked only at night , for the miners' night was the goblins' day . 
As I have indicated already , the chief defence against them was verse , for they hated verse of every kind , and some kinds they could not endure at all . 
I suspect they could not make any themselves , and that was why they disliked it so much . 
When he told his father , he made no objection , for he had great confidence in his boy's courage and resources . 
'I'm sorry for that , father , said Curdie . 
'Oh , it's not much . 
You'll be sure to take care of yourself , won't you ? 'Yes , father I will . 
I'll keep a sharp look out , I promise you . 
Curdie was the only one who remained in the mine . 
About six o'clock the rest went away , everyone bidding him good night , and telling him to take care of himself for he was a great favourite with them all . 
'Don't forget your rhymes , said one . 
'No , no , 'answered Curdie . 
'It's no matter if he does , said another , 'for he'll only have to make a new one . 
'Yes but he mightn't be able to make it fast enough , said another 'and while it was cooking in his head , they might take a mean advantage and set upon him . 
'I'll do my best , said Curdie . 
'We all know that , they returned , and left him . 
CHAPTER The Goblins For some time Curdie worked away briskly , throwing all the ore he had disengaged on one side behind him , to be ready for carrying out in the morning . 
He heard a good deal of goblin tapping , but it all sounded far away in the hill , and he paid it little heed . 
Then he leaned back for five minutes' rest before beginning his work again , and laid his head against the rock . 
He had not kept the position for one minute before he heard something which made him sharpen his ears . 
It sounded like a voice inside the rock . 
After a while he heard it again . 
It was a goblin voice there could be no doubt about that and this time he could make out the words . 
'Hadn't we better be moving ? 'it said . 
A rougher and deeper voice replied 'There's no hurry . 
That wretched little mole won't be through tonight , if he work ever so hard . 
He's not by any means at the thinnest place . 
'But you still think the lode does come through into our house ? said the first voice . 
'Yes , but a good bit farther on than he has got to yet . 
You see it back there a long way . 
Still , perhaps , in case of accident it would be as well to be getting out of this . 
Helfer , you'll take the great chest . 
That's your business , you know . 
'Yes , dad , said a third voice . 
'But you must help me to get it on my back . 
It's awfully heavy , you know . 
'Well , it isn't just a bag of smoke , I admit . 
But you're as strong as a mountain , Helfer . 
'You say so , dad . 
I think myself I'm all right . 
But I could carry ten times as much if it wasn't for my feet . 
'That is your weak point , I confess , my boy . 
'Ain't it yours too , father ? 'Well , to be honest , it's a goblin weakness . 
Why they come so soft , I declare I haven't an idea . 
'Specially when your head's so hard , you know , father . 
The goblin's glory is his head . 
'Well , you see , it's not the fashion . 
The king never wears shoes . 
'Yes but that's for distinction . 
She is the hardest in forbidding them to the rest of the women . 
'I'm sure I wouldn't wear them no , not for that I wouldn't ! said the first voice , which was evidently that of the mother of the family . 
'I can't think why either of them should . 
'Didn't I tell you the first was from upstairs ? said the other . 
'That was the only silly thing I ever knew His Majesty guilty of . 
Why should he marry an outlandish woman like that one of our natural enemies too ? 'I suppose he fell in love with her . 
'Pooh ! pooh ! He's just as happy now with one of his own people . 
'Did she die very soon ? They didn't tease her to death , did they ? 'Oh , dear , no ! The king worshipped her very footmarks . 
'What made her die , then ? Didn't the air agree with her ? 'She died when the young prince was born . 
'How silly of her ! We never do that . 
It must have been because she wore shoes . 
'Why do they wear shoes up there ? 'Ah , now that's a sensible question , and I will answer it . 
But in order to do so , I must first tell you a secret . 
I once saw the queen's feet . 
'Without her shoes ? 'Yes without her shoes . 
'No ! Did you ? How was it ? 'Never you mind how it was . 
She didn't know I saw them . 
And what do you think ! they had toes ! 'Toes ! What's that ? 'You may well ask ! I should never have known if I had not seen the queen's feet . 
That is just why she wore them . 
That is why all the men , and women too , upstairs wear shoes . 
They can't bear the sight of their own feet without them . 
'Ah ! now I understand . 
If ever you wish for shoes again , Helfer , I'll hit your feet I will . 
'No , no , mother pray don't . 
'But with such a big box on my head A horrid scream followed , which Curdie interpreted as in reply to a blow from his mother upon the feet of her eldest goblin . 
'Well , I never knew so much before ! remarked a fourth voice . 
'Your knowledge is not universal quite yet , said the father . 
'You were only fifty last month . 
Mind you see to the bed and bedding . 
As soon as we've finished our supper , we'll be up and going . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'What are you laughing at , husband ? 'I'm laughing to think what a mess the miners will find themselves in somewhere before this day ten years . 
'Why , what do you mean ? 'Oh , nothing . 
'Oh , yes , you do mean something . 
You always do mean something . 
'It's more than you do , then , wife . 
'That may be but it's not more than I find out , you know . 
'Ha ! ha ! You're a sharp one . 
What a mother you've got , Helfer ! 'Yes , father . 
'Well , I suppose I must tell you . 
They're all at the palace consulting about it tonight and as soon as we've got away from this thin place I'm going there to hear what night they fix upon . 
I should like to see that young ruffian there on the other side , struggling in the agonies of He dropped his voice so low that Curdie could hear only a growl . 
'But what shall we do when you are at the palace ? she asked . 
'I will see you safe in the new house I've been digging for you for the last two months . 
Podge , you mind the table and chairs . 
I commit them to your care . 
The table has seven legs each chair three . 
I shall require them all at your hands . 
After this arose a confused conversation about the various household goods and their transport and Curdie heard nothing more that was of any importance . 
He now knew at least one of the reasons for the constant sound of the goblin hammers and pickaxes at night . 
They were making new houses for themselves , to which they might retreat when the miners should threaten to break into their dwellings . 
But he had learned two things of far greater importance . 
Indeed , he had not been able even to satisfy himself as to whether they had no fingers , although that also was commonly said to be the fact . 
But what was of importance was the fact concerning the softness of the goblin feet , which he foresaw might be useful to all miners . 
What he had to do in the meantime , however , was to discover , if possible , the special evil design the goblins had now in their heads . 
He judged , and rightly , that it must lie in a farther part of the mountain , between which and the mine there was as yet no communication . 
There must be one nearly completed , however for it could be but a thin partition which now separated them . 
He therefore began to feel the wall With his hands , and soon found that some of the stones were loose enough to be drawn out with little noise . 
Laying hold of a large one with both his hands , he drew it gently out , and let it down softly . 
'What was that noise ? said the goblin father . 
Curdie blew out his light , lest it should shine through . 
'It must be that one miner that stayed behind the rest , said the mother . 
'No he's been gone a good while . 
I haven't heard a blow for an hour . 
Besides , it wasn't like that . 
'Then I suppose it must have been a stone carried down the brook inside . 
It will have more room by and by . 
It went in a good way , and then came in contact with something soft . 
He had but a moment to feel it over , it was so quickly withdrawn it was one of the toeless goblin feet . 
The owner of it gave a cry of fright . 
'What's the matter , Helfer ? asked his mother . 
'A beast came out of the wall and licked my foot . 
'Nonsense ! There are no wild beasts in our country , said his father . 
'But it was , father . 
Will you malign your native realms and reduce them to a level with the country upstairs ? That is swarming with wild beasts of every description . 
'But I did feel it , father . 
'I tell you to hold your tongue . 
Curdie suppressed his laughter , and lay still as a mouse but no stiller , for every moment he kept nibbling away with his fingers at the edges of the hole . 
He was slowly making it bigger , for here the rock had been very much shattered with the blasting . 
At length he heard once more what the father goblin was saying . 
'Now , then , he said , 'get your bundles on your backs . 
Here , Helfer , I'll help you up with your chest . 
'I wish it was my chest , father . 
'Your turn will come in good time enough ! Make haste . 
I must go to the meeting at the palace tonight . 
When that's over , we can come back and clear out the last of the things before our enemies return in the morning . 
Now light your torches , and come along . 
Curdie could hardly keep himself from calling through to know whether they made the fire to light their torches by . 
But a moment's reflection showed him that they would have said they did , inasmuch as they struck two stones together , and the fire came . 
CHAPTER The Hall of the Goblin Palace A sound of many soft feet followed , but soon ceased . 
Then Curdie flew at the hole like a tiger , and tore and pulled . 
The sides gave way , and it was soon large enough for him to crawl through . 
The goblins had talked of coming back for the rest of their household gear he saw nothing that would have made him suspect a family had taken shelter there for a single night . 
But the troop in front of him was toiling under heavy burdens . 
He darted after them like a greyhound . 
When he reached the corner and looked cautiously round , he saw them again at some distance down another long passage . 
None of the galleries he saw that night bore signs of the work of man or of goblin either . 
Stalactites , far older than the mines , hung from their roofs and their floors were rough with boulders and large round stones , showing that there water must have once run . 
He waited again at this corner till they had disappeared round the next , and so followed them a long way through one passage after another . 
The passages grew more and more lofty , and were more and more covered in the roof with shining stalactites . 
It was a strange enough procession which he followed . 
But the strangest part of it was the household animals which crowded amongst the feet of the goblins . 
It was true they had no wild animals down there at least they did not know of any but they had a wonderful number of tame ones . 
I must , however , reserve any contributions towards the natural history of these for a later position in my story . 
They were as yet too breathless to speak , else he would have had warning of their arrest . 
He started back , however , before anyone saw him , and retreating a good way , stood watching till the father should come out to go to the palace . 
Before very long , both he and his son Helfer appeared and kept on in the same direction as before , while Curdie followed them again with renewed precaution . 
After advancing a good way farther , he thought he heard a single voice . 
It sounded clearer and clearer as he went on , until at last he could almost distinguish the words . 
In a moment or two , keeping after the goblins round another corner , he once more started back this time in amazement . 
He was at the entrance of a magnificent cavern , of an oval shape , once probably a huge natural reservoir of water , now the great palace hall of the goblins . 
But he had no idea how immense the place was until his eyes had got accustomed to it , which was not for a good many minutes . 
The walls themselves were , in many parts , of gloriously shining substances , some of them gorgeously coloured besides , which powerfully contrasted with the shadows . 
Upon this sat the king and his court the king on a throne hollowed out of a huge block of green copper ore , and his court upon lower seats around it . 
The king had been making them a speech , and the applause which followed it was what Curdie had heard . 
One of the court was now addressing the multitude . 
'May it please Your Majesty cried a voice close by the door , which Curdie recognized as that of the goblin he had followed . 
'Who is he that interrupts the Chancellor ? cried another from near the throne . 
'Glump , answered several voices . 
'He is our trusty subject , said the king himself , in a slow and stately voice 'let him come forward and speak . 
In all probability , before another day is past , the enemy will have broken through into my house the partition between being even now not more than a foot in thickness . 
'Not quite so much , thought Curdie to himself . 
This discovery will , I trust , add considerably to the otherwise immense forces at His Majesty's disposal . 
Then the Chancellor rose and resumed . 
The failure of the former will render the latter imperative . 
After he had left behind him the glow that issued from the door of Glump's new abode , he was utterly without guide , so far as his eyes were concerned . 
He was most anxious to get back through the hole before the goblins should return to fetch the remains of their furniture . 
He hurried on , feeling his way along the walls of rock . 
Morning would bring no light into these regions and towards him least of all , who was known as a special rhymester and persecutor , could goblins be expected to exercise courtesy . 
It was of no use to turn back , for he had not the least idea where he had begun to go wrong . 
Mechanically , however , he kept feeling about the walls that hemmed him in . 
His hand came upon a place where a tiny stream of water was running down the face of the rock . 
'What a stupid I am ! he said to himself . 
In a moment he had thrown himself on the floor , and wriggled backwards through the hole . 
The floor on the other side was several feet lower , which made it easier to get back . 
It was all he could do to lift the largest stone he had taken out of the hole , but he did manage to shove it in again . 
He sat down on the ore heap and thought . 
Water was always the chief danger to which the miners were exposed . 
They met with a little choke damp sometimes , but never with the explosive firedamp so common in coal mines . 
Hence they were careful as soon as they saw any appearance of water . 
He then thought it better , as he might have occasion to be up a good many nights after this , to go home and have some sleep . 
Both father and son then went to bed and slept soundly until the morning . 
CHAPTER The Princess's King Papa The weather continued fine for weeks , and the little princess went out every day . 
So long a period of fine weather had indeed never been known upon that mountain . 
If it had not been for such odd behaviour Irene would by this time have almost forgotten the goblins . 
She never forgot Curdie , but him she remembered for his own sake , and indeed would have remembered him if only because a princess never forgets her debts until they are paid . 
One splendid sunshiny day , about an hour after noon , Irene , who was playing on a lawn in the garden , heard the distant blast of a bugle . 
She jumped up with a cry of joy , for she knew by that particular blast that her father was on his way to see her . 
This part of the garden lay on the slope of the hill and allowed a full view of the country below . 
So she shaded her eyes with her hand and looked far away to catch the first glimpse of shining armour . 
In a few moments a little troop came glittering round the shoulder of a hill . 
On and on they came until she could clearly distinguish the king . 
He rode a white horse and was taller than any of the men with him . 
He wore a narrow circle of gold set with jewels around his helmet , and as he came still nearer Irene could discern the flashing of the stones in the sun . 
By this time the people of the house were all gathered at the gate , but Irene stood alone in front of them . 
When the horsemen pulled up she ran to the side of the white horse and held up her arms . 
The king stopped and took her hands . 
In an instant she was on the saddle and clasped in his great strong arms . 
I wish I could describe the king so that you could see him in your mind . 
He had gentle , blue eyes , but a nose that made him look like an eagle . 
'I should like you to take me to see my great old grandmother . 
The king only gazed at his little princess with a look which she could not understand . 
'She's got her crown in her bedroom , she went on 'but I've not been in there yet . 
You know she's there , don't you ? 'No , said the king , very quietly . 
'Then it must all be a dream , said Irene . 
'I half thought it was but I couldn't be sure . 
Now I am sure of it . 
Besides , I couldn't find her the next time I went up . 
At that moment a snow white pigeon flew in at an open window and settled upon Irene's head . 
She broke into a merry laugh , cowered a little , and put up her hands to her head , saying 'Dear dovey , don't peck me . 
You'll pull out my hair with your long claws if you don't mind . 
The king laid his hand on his princess's head , held it back a little , gazed in her face , smiled half a smile , and sighed half a sigh . 
'Come , my child we'll have a walk in the garden together , he said . 
'You won't come up and see my huge , great , beautiful grandmother , then , king papa ? said the princess . 
'Not this time , said the king very gently . 
'She has not invited me , you know , and great old ladies like her do not choose to be visited without leave asked and given . 
The garden was a very lovely place . 
Being upon a Mountainside there were parts in it where the rocks came through in great masses , and all immediately about them remained quite wild . 
Tufts of heather grew upon them , and other hardy mountain plants and flowers , while near them would be lovely roses and lilies and all pleasant garden flowers . 
This mingling of the wild mountain with the civilized garden was very quaint , and it was impossible for any number of gardeners to make such a garden look formal and stiff . 
Against one of these rocks was a garden seat , shadowed from the afternoon sun by the overhanging of the rock itself . 
At length the king said 'You were out late one evening , Irene . 
It was my fault and Lootie was very sorry . 
'I must talk to Lootie about it , said the king . 
'Don't speak loud to her , please , papa , said Irene . 
'She's been so afraid of being late ever since ! Indeed she has not been naughty . 
It was only a mistake for once . 
'Once might be too often , murmured the king to himself , as he stroked his child's head . 
I can't tell you how he had come to know . 
I am sure Curdie had not told him . 
Someone about the palace must have seen them , after all . 
He sat for a good while thinking . 
Then he rose and , leaving Irene where she was , went into the house and sent for Lootie , with whom he had a talk that made her cry . 
It was clear he was not quite comfortable about the princess . 
CHAPTER The Old Lady's Bedroom Nothing more happened worth telling for some time . 
The autumn came and went by . 
There were no more flowers in the garden . 
The wind blew strong , and howled among the rocks . 
The rain fell , and drenched the few yellow and red leaves that could not get off the bare branches . 
But the princess could not see much of them , for she went to bed early . 
The winter drew on , and she found things growing dreary . 
Still at times she found it very dreary , and often and often wished that her huge great grandmother had not been a dream . 
One morning the nurse left her with the housekeeper for a while . 
To amuse her she turned out the contents of an old cabinet upon the table . 
This alarmed the housekeeper greatly . 
The nurse was fetched the doctor was sent for her hand was poulticed , and long before her usual time she was put to bed . 
The pain still continued , and although she fell asleep and dreamed a good many dreams , there was the pain always in every dream . 
At last it woke her UP . 
The moon was shining brightly into the room . 
The poultice had fallen off her hand and it was burning hot . 
She fancied if she could hold it into the moonlight that would cool it . 
So she got out of bed , without waking the nurse who lay at the other end of the room , and went to the window . 
When she looked out she saw one of the men at arms walking in the garden with the moonlight glancing on his armour . 
So she resolved to go to the window of another room , and call him from there . 
It was so much nicer to have somebody to talk to than to lie awake in bed with the burning pain in her hand . 
She opened the door very gently and went through the nursery , which did not look into the garden , to go to the other window . 
Some little girls would have been afraid to find themselves thus alone in the middle of the night , but Irene was a princess . 
'If she is a dream , she said to herself , 'then I am the likelier to find her , if I am dreaming . 
So up and up she went , stair after stair , until she Came to the many rooms all just as she had seen them before . 
But , as if she had known every step of the way , she walked straight to the door at the foot of the narrow stair that led to the tower . 
'What if I should realreality really find my beautiful old grandmother up there ! she said to herself as she crept up the steep steps . 
When she reached the top she stood a moment listening in the dark , for there was no moon there . 
Yes ! it was ! it was the hum of the spinning wheel ! What a diligent grandmother to work both day and night ! She tapped gently at the door . 
'Come in , Irene , 'said the sweet voice . 
The princess opened the door and entered . 
'Come in , Irene , she said again . 
'Can you tell me what I am spinning ? 'She speaks , thought Irene , 'just as if she had seen me five minutes ago , or yesterday at the farthest . 
No , she answered 'I don't know what you are spinning . 
Please , I thought you were a dream . 
Why couldn't I find you before , great great grandmother ? 'That you are hardly old enough to understand . 
But you would have found me sooner if you hadn't come to think I was a dream . 
I will give you one reason though why you couldn't find me . 
I didn't want you to find me . 
'Why , please ? 'Because I did not want Lootie to know I was here . 
'But you told me to tell Lootie . 
But I knew Lootie would not believe you . 
If she were to see me sitting spinning here , she wouldn't believe me , either . 
'Why ? 'Because she couldn't . 
She would rub her eyes , and go away and say she felt queer , and forget half of it and more , and then say it had been all a dream . 
'Just like me , said Irene , feeling very much ashamed of herself . 
'Yes , a good deal like you , but not just like you for you've come again and Lootie wouldn't have come again . 
She would have said , No , no she had had enough of such nonsense . 
'Is it naughty of Lootie , then ? 'It would be naughty of you . 
I've never done anything for Lootie . 
'And you did wash my face and hands for me , said Irene , beginning to cry . 
The old lady smiled a sweet smile and said 'I'm not vexed with you , my child nor with Lootie either . 
But I don't want you to say anything more to Lootie about me . 
If she should ask you , you must just be silent . 
But I do not think she will ask you . 
All the time they talked the old lady kept on spinning . 
'You haven't told me yet what I am spinning , she said . 
It was indeed very pretty stuff . 
And the thread the old lady drew out from it was so fine that Irene could hardly see it . 
'I am spinning this for you , my child . 
'For me ! What am I to do with it , please ? 'I will tell you by and by . 
But first I will tell you what it is . 
It is spider web of a particular kind . 
My pigeons bring it me from over the great sea . 
There is only one forest where the spiders live who make this particular kind the finest and strongest of any . 
I have nearly finished my present job . 
What is on the rock now will be enough . 
I have a week's work there yet , though , she added , looking at the bunch . 
'Do you work all day and all night , too , great great great great grandmother ? said the princess , thinking to be very polite with so many greats . 
'I am not quite so great as all that , she answered , smiling almost merrily . 
'If you call me grandmother , that will do . 
No , I don't work every night only moonlit nights , and then no longer than the moon shines upon my wheel . 
I shan't work much longer tonight . 
'And what will you do next , grandmother ? 'Go to bed . 
Would you like to see my bedroom ? 'Yes , that I should . 
'Then I think I won't work any longer tonight . 
I shall be in good time . 
The old lady rose , and left her wheel standing just as it was . 
You see there was no good in putting it away , for where there was not any furniture there was no danger of being untidy . 
Then she took Irene by the hand , but it was her bad hand and Irene gave a little cry of pain . 
But she only said 'Give me your other hand' and , having led her out upon the little dark landing , opened the door on the opposite side of it . 
What was Irene's surprise to see the loveliest room she had ever seen in her life ! It was large and lofty , and dome shaped . 
A large oval bed stood in the middle , with a coverlid of rose colour , and velvet curtains all round it of a lovely pale blue . 
The walls were also blue spangled all over with what looked like stars of silver . 
The old lady left her and , going to a strange looking cabinet , opened it and took out a curious silver casket . 
Then she sat down on a low chair and , calling Irene , made her kneel before her while she looked at her hand . 
Having examined it , she opened the casket , and took from it a little ointment . 
The sweetest odour filled the room like that of roses and lilies as she rubbed the ointment gently all over the hot swollen hand . 
Her touch was so pleasant and cool that it seemed to drive away the pain and heat wherever it came . 
'Oh , grandmother ! it is so nice ! said Irene . 
Then the old lady went to a chest of drawers , and took out a large handkerchief of gossamer like cambric , which she tied round her hand . 
'I don't think I can let you go away tonight , she said . 
'Would you like to sleep with me ? 'Oh , yes , yes , dear grandmother , said Irene , and would have clapped her hands , forgetting that she could not . 
'You won't be afraid , then , to go to bed with such an old woman ? 'No . 
You are so beautiful , grandmother . 
'But I am very old . 
'And I suppose I am very young . 
Then she got a large silver basin , and having poured some water into it made Irene sit on the chair , and washed her feet . 
This done , she was ready for bed . 
And oh , what a delicious bed it was into which her grandmother laid her ! She hardly could have told she was lying upon anything she felt nothing but the softness . 
The old lady having undressed herself lay down beside her . 
'Why don't you put out your moon ? asked the princess . 
'That never goes out , night or day , she answered . 
'In the darkest night , if any of my pigeons are out on a message , they always see my moon and know where to fly to . 
'But if somebody besides the pigeons were to see it somebody about the house , I mean they would come to look what it was and find you . 
'The better for them , then , said the old lady . 
'But it does not happen above five times in a hundred years that anyone does see it . 
The greater part of those who do take it for a meteor , wink their eyes , and forget it again . 
Besides , nobody could find the room except I pleased . 
'I hope it will never go out , said the princess . 
But it is time we both went to sleep . 
Shall I take you in my arms ? The little princess nestled close up to the old lady , who took her in both her arms and held her close to her bosom . 
'Oh , dear ! this is so nice ! said the princess . 
'I didn't know anything in the world could be so comfortable . 
I should like to lie here for ever . 
'You may if you will , said the old lady . 
'But I must put you to one trial not a very hard one , I hope . 
This night week you must come back to me . 
If you don't , I do not know when you may find me again , and you Will soon want me very much . 
'Oh ! please , don't let me forget . 
The only question is whether you will believe I am anywhere whether you will believe I am anything but a dream . 
You may be sure I will do all I can to help you to come . 
But it will rest with yourself , after all . 
On the night of next Friday , you must come to me . 
'I will try , said the princess . 
'Then good night , said the old lady , and kissed the forehead which lay in her bosom . 
But , after all , no dream could be more lovely than what she had left behind when she fell asleep . 
In the morning she found herself in her own bed . 
There was no handkerchief or anything else on her hand , only a sweet odour lingered about it . 
The swelling had all gone down the prick of the brooch had vanished in fact , her hand was perfectly well . 
CHAPTER A Short Chapter About Curdie Curdie spent many nights in the mine . 
His father and he had taken Mrs. Peterson into the secret , for they knew mother could hold her tongue , which was more than could be said of all the miners' wives . 
But Curdie did not tell her that every night he spent in the mine , part of it went in earning a new red petticoat for her . 
Mrs. Peterson was such a nice good mother ! All mothers are nice and good more or less , but Mrs. Peterson was nice and good all more and no less . 
I doubt if the princess was very much happier even in the arms of her huge great grandmother than Peter and Curdie were in the arms of Mrs. Peterson . 
Not that she and Curdie ever thought of how much they worked for each other that would have spoiled everything . 
After that , he would set out on a reconnoitring expedition . 
What were they about ? It could not well be the inundation , seeing that had in the meantime been postponed to something else . 
Then what was it ? He lurked and watched , every now and then in the greatest risk of being detected , but without success . 
He had again and again to retreat in haste , a proceeding rendered the more difficult that he had to gather up his string as he returned upon its course . 
'I follow the thread , she would answer 'just as you do in the mine . 
But still he had made no discovery as to what the goblin miners were about . 
They were of one sort creatures but so grotesque and misshapen as to be more like a child's drawings upon his slate than anything natural . 
They saw them only at night , while on guard about the house . 
It rushed into the garden . 
They laughed at him until he was driven to hold his tongue , and said he must have taken too long a pull at the ale jug . 
But before two nights were over he had one to side with him , for he , too , had seen something strange , only quite different from that reported by the other . 
The description the second man gave of the creature he had seen was yet more grotesque and unlikely . 
They were both laughed at by the rest but night after night another came over to their side , until at last there was only one left to laugh at all his companions . 
My readers will suspect what these were but I will now give them full information concerning them . 
But in the course of time all had undergone even greater changes than had passed upon their owners . 
But what increased the gruesomeness tenfold was that , from constant domestic , or indeed rather family association with the goblins , their countenances had grown in grotesque resemblance to the human . 
I shall now explain how it was that just then these animals began to show themselves about the king's country house . 
The goblins , as Curdie had discovered , were mining on at work both day and night , in divisions , urging the scheme after which he lay in wait . 
Perhaps indeed they gave in consequence too little attention to the house . 
But Irene took care to betray nothing , whatever efforts Lootie might make to get at her thoughts . 
And Lootie had to say to herself 'What an odd child she is ! and give it up . 
At length the longed for Friday arrived , and lest Lootie should be moved to watch her , Irene endeavoured to keep herself as quiet as possible . 
In the afternoon she asked for her doll's house , and went on arranging and rearranging the various rooms and their inhabitants for a whole hour . 
Then she gave a sigh and threw herself back in her chair . 
One of the dolls would not sit , and another would not stand , and they were all very tiresome . 
Indeed , there was one would not even lie down , which was too bad . 
But it was now getting dark , and the darker it got the more excited Irene became , and the more she felt it necessary to be composed . 
'I see you want your tea , princess , said the nurse 'I will go and get it . 
The room feels close I will open the window a little . 
The evening is mild it won't hurt you . 
The next instant something leaped into the room . 
It was like a cat , with legs as long as a horse's , Irene said , but its body no bigger and its legs no thicker than those of a cat . 
She was too frightened to cry out , but not too frightened to jump from her chair and run from the room . 
No one happening to see her , on she ran , unable to think for fear , and ready to run anywhere to elude the awful creature with the stilt legs . 
Not daring to look behind her , she rushed straight out of the gate and up the mountain . 
At last she could run no longer , and fell , unable even to scream , by the roadside , where she lay for some time half dead with terror . 
But finding nothing lay hold of her , and her breath beginning to come back , she ventured at length to get half up and peer anxiously about her . 
It was now so dark she could see nothing . 
Not a single star was out . 
She could not even tell in what direction the house lay , and between her and home she fancied the dreadful creature lying ready to pounce upon her . 
She saw now that she ought to have run up the stairs at once . 
It was well she did not scream for , although very few of the goblins had come out for weeks , a stray idler or two might have heard her . 
She sat down upon a stone , and nobody but one who had done something wrong could have been more miserable . 
She had quite forgotten her promise to visit her grandmother . 
A raindrop fell on her face . 
She looked up , and for a moment her terror was lost in astonishment . 
But a great silver globe was hanging in the air and as she gazed at the lovely thing , her courage revived . 
Speedily , yet softly , she walked down the hill , hoping to pass the watching creature unseen . 
Dark as it was , there was little danger now of choosing the wrong road . 
The same instant , however , she caught the light of the windows , and knew exactly where she was . 
It was too dark to run , but she made what haste she could , and reached the gate in safety . 
But by this time she was knocking at the old lady's door . 
CHAPTER Woven and Then Spun 'Come in , Irene , said the silvery voice of her grandmother . 
The princess opened the door and peeped in . 
But the room was quite dark and there was no sound of the spinning wheel . 
She grew frightened once more , thinking that , although the room was there , the old lady might be a dream after all . 
Before she had time to think another thought , she heard her voice again , saying as before 'Come in , Irene . 
From the sound , she understood at once that she was not in the room beside her . 
Perhaps she was in her bedroom . 
She turned across the passage , feeling her way to the other door . 
When her hand fell on the lock , again the old lady spoke 'Shut the other door behind you , Irene . 
I always close the door of my workroom when I go to my chamber . 
Irene wondered to hear her voice so plainly through the door having shut the other , she opened it and went in . 
'I've lighted a fire for you , Irene you're cold and wet , said her grandmother . 
And when she came nearer , she found that the smell of roses with which the room was filled came from the fire roses on the hearth . 
And ever as she looked , the hair seemed pouring down from her head and vanishing in a golden mist ere it reached the floor . 
It flowed from under the edge of a circle of shining silver , set with alternated pearls and opals . 
On her dress was no ornament whatever , neither was there a ring on her hand , or a necklace or carcanet about her neck . 
But her slippers glimmered with the light of the Milky Way , for they were covered with seed pearls and opals in one mass . 
Her face was that of a woman of three and twenty . 
The princess was so bewildered with astonishment and admiration that she could hardly thank her , and drew nigh with timidity , feeling dirty and uncomfortable . 
The lady was seated on a low chair by the side of the fire , with hands outstretched to take her , but the princess hung back with a troubled smile . 
'Why , what's the matter ? asked her grandmother . 
'You haven't been doing anything wrong I know that by your face , though it is rather miserable . 
What's the matter , my dear ? And she still held out her arms . 
'Dear grandmother , said Irene , 'I'm not so sure that I haven't done something wrong . 
'You were taken by surprise , my child , and you are not so likely to do it again . 
It is when people do wrong things wilfully that they are the more likely to do them again . 
And still she held out her arms . 
'But , grandmother , you're so beautiful and grand with your crown on and I am so dirty with mud and rain ! I should quite spoil your beautiful blue dress . 
'Oh , grandmother ! You'll make yourself such a mess ! cried Irene , clinging to her . 
'You darling ! do you think I care more for my dress than for my little girl ? Besides look here . 
As she spoke she set her down , and Irene saw to her dismay that the lovely dress was covered with the mud of her fall on the mountain road . 
'There ! said her grandmother , 'you won't mind coming to me now ? But Irene again hung back , eying the flaming rose which the lady held in her hand . 
'You're not afraid of the rose are you ? she said , about to throw it on the hearth again . 
'Oh ! don't , please ! cried Irene . 
'Won't you hold it to my frock and my hands and my face ? And I'm afraid my feet and my knees want it too . 
'No , answered her grandmother , smiling a little sadly , as she threw the rose from her 'it is too hot for you yet . 
It would set your frock in a flame . 
Besides , I don't want to make you clean tonight . 
I should like to wash you , but they would not believe you then . 
Do you see that bath behind you ? The princess looked , and saw a large oval tub of silver , shining brilliantly in the light of the wonderful lamp . 
'Go and look into it , said the lady . 
Irene went , and came back very silent with her eyes shining . 
'What did you see ? asked her grandmother . 
'The sky , and the moon and the stars , she answered . 
'It looked as if there was no bottom to it . 
The lady smiled a pleased satisfied smile , and was silent also for a few moments . 
Then she said 'Any time you want a bath , come to me . 
I know YOU have a bath every morning , but sometimes you want one at night , too . 
'Thank you , grandmother I will I will indeed , answered Irene , and was again silent for some moments thinking . 
'Then how was it ? I don't see a window all round . 
'When I please I can make the lamp shine through the walls shine so strong that it melts them away from before the sight , and shows itself as you saw it . 
But , as I told you , it is not everybody can see it . 
'How is it that I can , then ? I'm sure I don't know . 
'It is a gift born with you . 
And one day I hope everybody will have it . 
'But how do you make it shine through the walls ? 'Ah ! that you would not understand if I were to try ever so much to make you not yet not yet . 
But , added the lady , rising , 'you must sit in my chair while I get you the present I have been preparing for you . 
I told you my spinning was for you . 
It is finished now , and I am going to fetch it . 
I have been keeping it warm under one of my brooding pigeons . 
Irene sat down in the low chair , and her grandmother left her , shutting the door behind her . 
The child sat gazing , now at the rose fire , now at the starry walls , now at the silver light and a great quietness grew in her heart . 
If all the long legged cats in the world had come rushing at her then she would not have been afraid of them for a moment . 
How this was she could not tell she only knew there was no fear in her , and everything was so right and safe that it could not get in . 
She had been gazing at the lovely lamp for some minutes fixedly turning her eyes , she found the wall had vanished , for she was looking out on the dark cloudy night . 
But though she heard the wind blowing , none of it blew upon her . 
In a moment more the clouds themselves parted , or rather vanished like the wall , and she looked straight into the starry herds , flashing gloriously in the dark blue . 
It was but for a moment . 
'There , Irene there is my work for you ! she said , holding out the ball to the princess . 
She took it in her hand , and looked at it all over . 
It sparkled a little , and shone here and there , but not much . 
It was of a sort of grey whiteness , something like spun glass . 
'Is this all your spinning , grandmother ? she asked . 
'All since you came to the house . 
There is more there than you think . 
She came back with a small ring in her hand . 
Then she took the ball from Irene's , and did something with the ring Irene could not tell what . 
'Give me your hand , she said . 
Irene held up her right hand . 
'Yes , that is the hand I want , said the lady , and put the ring on the forefinger of it . 
'What a beautiful ring ! said Irene . 
'What is the stone called ? 'It is a fire opal . 
'Please , am I to keep it ? 'Always . 
The stone in your ring is of the same sort only not so good . 
It has only red , but mine have all colours , you see . 
I will take such care of it ! But she added , hesitating . 
'But what ? asked her grandmother . 
'What am I to say when Lootie asks me where I got it ? 'You will ask her where you got it , answered the lady smiling . 
'I don't see how I can do that . 
'Of course I will , if you say so . 
But , you know , I can't pretend not to know . 
But don't trouble yourself about it . 
You will see when the time comes . 
So saying , the lady turned , and threw the little ball into the rose fire . 
'Oh , grandmother ! exclaimed Irene 'I thought you had spun it for me . 
'So I did , my child . 
'No it's burnt in the fire ! The lady put her hand in the fire , brought out the ball , glimmering as before , and held it towards her . 
Irene stretched out her hand to take it , but the lady turned and , going to her cabinet , opened a drawer , and laid the ball in it . 
'Have I done anything to vex you , grandmother ? said Irene pitifully . 
But you must understand that no one ever gives anything to another properly and really without keeping it . 
'Oh ! I'm not to take it with me ! You are going to keep it for me ! 'You are to take it with you . 
I've fastened the end of it to the ring on your finger . 
Irene looked at the ring . 
'I can't see it there , grandmother , she said . 
'Feel a little way from the ring towards the cabinet , said the lady . 
'Oh ! I do feel it ! exclaimed the princess . 
'But I can't see it , she added , looking close to her outstretched hand . 
The thread is too fine for you to see it . 
You can only feel it . 
Now you can fancy how much spinning that took , although it does seem such a little ball . 
'But what use can I make of it , if it lies in your cabinet ? 'That is what I will explain to you . 
It would be of no use to you it wouldn't be yours at all if it did not lie in my cabinet . 
Then you must lay your finger , the same that wore the ring , upon the thread , and follow the thread wherever it leads you . 
'Oh , how delightful ! It will lead me to you , grandmother , I know ! 'Yes . 
But , remember , it may seem to you a very roundabout way indeed , and you must not doubt the thread . 
Of one thing you may be sure , that while you hold it , I hold it too . 
'It is very wonderful ! said Irene thoughtfully . 
The lady laid her hand on her shoulder , and said 'Sit down again , Irene . 
Nothing pleases me better than to see anyone sit in my chair . 
I am only too glad to stand so long as anyone will sit in it . 
'How kind of you ! said the princess , and sat down again . 
'It makes me happy , said the lady . 
I am afraid it is time for you to go . 
'Mightn't I stay and sleep with you tonight , grandmother ? 'No , not tonight . 
'I'm so glad , grandmother , you didn't say Go home , for this is my home . 
Mayn't I call this my home ? 'You may , my child . 
And I trust you will always think it your home . 
I must take you back without anyone seeing you . 
'Please , I want to ask you one question more , said Irene . 
And I thought you would like to see your old grandmother in her best . 
'Why do you call yourself old ? You're not old , grandmother . 
'I am very old indeed . 
The right old age means strength and beauty and mirth and courage and clear eyes and strong painless limbs . 
I am older than you are able to think , and 'And look at you , grandmother ! cried Irene , jumping up and flinging her arms about her neck . 
'I won't be so silly again , I promise you . 
At least I'm rather afraid to promise but if I am , I promise to be sorry for it I do . 
I wish I were as old as you , grandmother . 
I don't think you are ever afraid of anything . 
'Not for long , at least , my child . 
Perhaps by the time I am two thousand years of age , I shall , indeed , never be afraid of anything . 
But I confess I have sometimes been afraid about my children sometimes about you , Irene . 
'Oh , I'm so sorry , grandmother ! Tonight , I suppose , you mean . 
'Yes a little tonight but a good deal when you had all but made up your mind that I was a dream , and no real great great grandmother . 
You must not suppose I am blaming you for that . 
I dare say you could not help it . 
'I don't know , grandmother , said the princess , beginning to cry . 
'I can't always do myself as I should like . 
And I don't always try . 
The lady stooped , lifted her in her arms , and sat down with her in her chair , holding her close to her bosom . 
In a few minutes the princess had sobbed herself to sleep . 
How long she slept I do not know . 
When she came to herself she was sitting in her own high chair at the nursery table , with her doll's house before her . 
CHAPTER The Ring The same moment her nurse came into the room , sobbing . 
When she saw her sitting there she started back with a loud cry of amazement and joy . 
Then running to her , she caught her in her arms and covered her with kisses . 
'Not quite from the top , thought Irene to herself and she might have added , 'not quite to the bottom' , perhaps , if she had known all . 
But the one she would not , and the other she could not say . 
But she said nothing of her grandmother or her lamp . 
'And there we've been searching for you all over the house for more than an hour and a half ! exclaimed the nurse . 
'I wouldn't run up the mountain , anyhow , returned Lootie . 
'Not if you had time to think about it . 
But when those creatures came at you that night on the mountain , you were so frightened yourself that you lost your way home . 
This put a stop to Lootie's reproaches . 
Without another word she went and got some fresh tea and bread and butter for the princess . 
Before she returned , the whole household , headed by the housekeeper , burst into the nursery to exult over their darling . 
The gentlemen at arms followed , and were ready enough to believe all she told them about the long legged cat . 
In their own hearts they blamed themselves for not having kept better watch . 
The men at arms redoubled their vigilance , and for some time there was no further cause of alarm . 
When the princess woke the next morning , her nurse was bending over her . 
'How your ring does glow this morning , princess ! just like a fiery rose ! she said . 
'Does it , Lootie ? returned Irene . 
'Who gave me the ring , Lootie ? I know I've had it a long time , but where did I get it ? I don't remember . 
'I will ask my king papa the next time he comes , said Irene . 
Hence you see it was his care of the people that kept him from seeing his princess so often as he would have liked . 
Once more Irene heard the bugle blast , and once more she was at the gate to meet her father as he rode up on his great white horse . 
After they had been alone for a little while , she thought of what she had resolved to ask him . 
'Please , king papa , she said , 'Will you tell me where I got this pretty ring ? I can't remember . 
The king looked at it . 
A strange beautiful smile spread like sunshine over his face , and an answering smile , but at the same time a questioning one , spread like moonlight over Irene's . 
'It was your queen mamma's once , he said . 
'And why isn't it hers now ? asked Irene . 
'She does not want it now , said the king , looking grave . 
'Why doesn't she want it now ? 'Because she's gone where all those rings are made . 
'And when shall I see her ? asked the princess . 
'Not for some time yet , answered the king , and the tears came into his eyes . 
When he went away he left other six gentlemen behind him , that there might be six of them always on guard . 
And now , in the lovely spring weather , Irene was out on the mountain the greater part of the day . 
In the warmer hollows there were lovely primroses , and not so many that she ever got tired of them . 
She treated the plants on which they grew like birds' nests every fresh flower was like a new little bird to her . 
She would pay visits to all the flower nests she knew , remembering each by itself . 
It was a favourite amusement with her . 
There were many flowers up and down , and she loved them all , but the primroses were her favourites . 
'They're not too shy , and they're not a bit forward , she would say to Lootie . 
There were goats too about , over the mountain , and when the little kids came she was as pleased with them as with the flowers . 
The goats belonged to the miners mostly a few of them to Curdie's mother but there were a good many wild ones that seemed to belong to nobody . 
These the goblins counted theirs , and it was upon them partly that they lived . 
CHAPTER Curdie's Clue Curdie was as watchful as ever , but was almost getting tired of his ill success . 
The goblins , hearing no more noise in that quarter , had ceased to apprehend an immediate invasion , and kept no watch . 
It was not long , however , before he began to feel bewildered . 
He had to use great caution to pass unseen they lay so close together . 
But what could he do ? It was of no use to sit down and wait for the morning the morning made no difference here . 
It was dark , and always dark and if his string failed him he was helpless . 
He might even arrive within a yard of the mine and never know it . 
He knew by the size of the ball that he was getting pretty near the last of it , when he began to feel a tugging and pulling at it . 
What could it mean ? Turning a sharp corner , he thought he heard strange sounds . 
Before he could recover his feet , he had caught some great scratches on his face and several severe bites on his legs and arms . 
It was clear that the cobs' creatures had found his axe , had between them carried it off , and had so led him he knew not where . 
But for all his thinking he could not tell what he ought to do , until suddenly he became aware of a glimmer of light in the distance . 
Without a moment's hesitation he set out for it , as fast as the unknown and rugged way would permit . 
Yet again turning a corner , led by the dim light , he spied something quite new in his experience of the underground regions a small irregular shape of something shining . 
To this opening he managed to scramble up , and then he saw a strange sight . 
Below sat a little group of goblins around a fire , the smoke of which vanished in the darkness far aloft . 
Nor had Curdie looked long before he recognized the king himself , and found that he had made his way into the inner apartment of the royal family . 
He had never had such a good chance of hearing something . 
He crept through the hole as softly as he could , scrambled a good way down the wall towards them without attracting attention , and then sat down and listened . 
The king , evidently the queen , and probably the crown prince and the Prime Minister were talking together . 
He was sure of the queen by her shoes , for as she warmed her feet at the fire , he saw them quite plainly . 
'That will be fun ! said the one he took for the crown prince . 
It was the first whole sentence he heard . 
'I don't see why you should think it such a grand affair ! said his stepmother , tossing her head backward . 
'You must remember , my spouse , interposed His Majesty , as if making excuse for his son , 'he has got the same blood in him . 
His mother 'Don't talk to me of his mother ! You positively encourage his unnatural fancies . 
Whatever belongs to that mother ought to be cut out of him . 
'You forget yourself , my dear ! said the king . 
'I don't , said the queen , 'nor you either . 
If you expect me to approve of such coarse tastes , you will find yourself mistaken . 
I don't wear shoes for nothing . 
'You must acknowledge , however , the king said , with a little groan , 'that this at least is no whim of Harelip's , but a matter of State policy . 
You are well aware that his gratification comes purely from the pleasure of sacrificing himself to the public good . 
Does it not , Harelip ? 'Yes , father of course it does . 
Only it will be nice to make her cry . 
I'll have the skin taken off between her toes , and tie them up till they grow together . 
Then her feet will be like other people's , and there will be no occasion for her to wear shoes . 
'Do you mean to insinuate I've got toes , you unnatural wretch ? cried the queen and she moved angrily towards Harelip . 
The councillor , however , who was betwixt them , leaned forward so as to prevent her touching him , but only as if to address the prince . 
'Your Royal Highness , he said , 'possibly requires to be reminded that you have got three toes yourself one on one foot , two on the other . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! shouted the queen triumphantly . 
The councillor , encouraged by this mark of favour , went on . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! laughed the queen louder than before , and the king and the minister joined in the laugh . 
Harelip growled , and for a few moments the others continued to express their enjoyment of his discomfiture . 
The queen was the only one Curdie could see with any distinctness . 
She sat sideways to him , and the light of the fire shone full upon her face . 
He could not consider her handsome . 
The goblins jumped from their seats in more anger than consternation , for they had never yet seen anything to be afraid of in the palace . 
But when they saw Curdie with his pick in his hand their rage was mingled with fear , for they took him for the first of an invasion of miners . 
'I lost my way and did not know where I was wandering to . 
'How did you get in ? 'By a hole in the mountain . 
'But you are a miner ! Look at your pickaxe ! Curdie did look at it , answering 'I came upon it lying on the ground a little way from here . 
I tumbled over some wild beasts who were playing with it . 
And Curdie showed him how he was scratched and bitten . 
'You will oblige me by walking out of my dominions at once , he said , well knowing what a mockery lay in the words . 
'With pleasure , if Your Majesty will give me a guide , said Curdie . 
'I will give you a thousand , said the king with a scoffing air of magnificent liberality . 
'One will be quite sufficient , said Curdie . 
But the king uttered a strange shout , half halloo , half roar , and in rushed goblins till the cave was swarming . 
They began to gather about him in a way he did not relish , and he retreated towards the wall . 
'Stand back , said Curdie , grasping his pickaxe tighter by his knee . 
They only grinned and pressed closer . 
Curdie bethought himself and began to rhyme . 
Then Curdie heaved up his axe . 
Hard as the heads of all goblins are , he thought he must feel that . 
And so he did , no doubt but he only gave a horrible cry , and sprung at Curdie's throat . 
Curdie , however , drew back in time , and just at that critical moment remembered the vulnerable part of the goblin body . 
He made a sudden rush at the king and stamped with all his might on His Majesty's feet . 
The king gave a most unkingly howl and almost fell into the fire . 
Curdie then rushed into the crowd , stamping right and left . 
She trusted in her shoes they were of granite hollowed like French sabots . 
But she instantly returned it with very different effect , causing him frightful pain , and almost disabling him . 
She dashed him into a hole in the wall , with a force that almost stunned him . 
The last had not ceased when he grew very faint , for his head had been badly cut , and at last insensible . 
When he came to himself there was perfect silence about him , and utter darkness , but for the merest glimmer in one tiny spot . 
He could not move it a hairbreadth , for they had piled a great heap of stones against it . 
He sat down and tried to think , but soon fell fast asleep . 
CHAPTER Goblin Counsels He must have slept a long time , for when he awoke he felt wonderfully restored indeed almost well and very hungry . 
There were voices in the outer cave . 
Once more , then , it was night for the goblins slept during the day and went about their affairs during the night . 
Curdie listened , and soon found that they were talking of himself . 
'How long will it take ? asked Harelip . 
'Not many days , I should think , answered the king . 
'They are poor feeble creatures , those sun people , and want to be always eating . 
Yes I judge a week of starvation will do for him . 
We should never have done it . 
She seemed in far better humour than the night before . 
'I was about to say , she resumed , 'that it does seem a pity to waste so much fresh meat . 
'What are you thinking of , my love ? said the king . 
'The very notion of starving him implies that we are not going to give him any meat , either salt or fresh . 
'I'm not such a stupid as that comes to , returned Her Majesty . 
'What I mean is that by the time he is starved there will hardly be a picking upon his bones . 
The king gave a great laugh . 
'Well , my spouse , you may have him when you like , he said . 
'I don't fancy him for my part . 
I am pretty sure he is tough eating . 
'That would be to honour instead of punish his insolence , returned the queen . 
'But why should our poor creatures be deprived of so much nourishment ? Our little dogs and cats and pigs and small bears would enjoy him very much . 
'You are the best of housekeepers , my lovely queen ! said her husband . 
'Let it be so by all means . 
Let us have our people in , and get him out and kill him at once . 
The mischief he might have brought upon us , now that he had penetrated so far as our most retired citadel , is incalculable . 
Or rather let us tie him hand and foot , and have the pleasure of seeing him torn to pieces by full torchlight in the great hall . 
'Better and better ! cried the queen and the prince together , both of them clapping their hands . 
And the prince made an ugly noise with his hare lip , just as if he had intended to be one at the feast . 
'But , added the queen , bethinking herself , 'he is so troublesome . 
For poor creatures as they are , there is something about those sun people that is very troublesome . 
I cannot imagine how it is that with such superior strength and skill and understanding as ours , we permit them to exist at all . 
But we might use it as a sort of outhouse , you know . 
Even our creatures' eyes might get used to it , and if they did grow blind that would be of no consequence , provided they grew fat as well . 
'It is worth thinking of , said the king 'and I don't know why you should be the first to suggest it , except that you have a positive genius for conquest . 
'Once there was a goblin Living in a hole Busy he was cobblin' A shoe without a sole . 
'By came a birdie Goblin , what do you do ? Cobble at a sturdie Upper leather shoe . 
What's the good o' that , Sir ? Said the little bird . 
Why it's very Pat , Sir Plain without a word . 
'Do now , or I'll break your head . 
'Break away , shouted Curdie , and began singing again 'Once there was a goblin , Living in a hole 'I really cannot bear it , said the queen . 
'If I could only get at his horrid toes with my slippers again ! 'I think we had better go to bed , said the king . 
'It's not time to go to bed , said the queen . 
'I would if I was you , said Curdie . 
'Impertinent wretch ! said the queen , with the utmost scorn in her voice . 
'An impossible if , said His Majesty with dignity . 
'Quite , returned Curdie , and began singing again 'Go to bed , Goblin , do . 
Help the queen Take off her shoe . 
'If you do , It will disclose A horrid set Of sprouting toes . 
'What a lie ! roared the queen in a rage . 
'By the way , that reminds me , said the king , 'that for as long as we have been married , I have never seen your feet , queen . 
I think you might take off your shoes when you go to bed ! They positively hurt me sometimes . 
'I will do as I like , retorted the queen sulkily . 
'You ought to do as your own hubby wishes you , said the king . 
'I will not , said the queen . 
'Then I insist upon it , said the king . 
Apparently His Majesty approached the queen for the purpose of following the advice given by Curdie , for the latter heard a scuffle , and then a great roar from the king . 
'Will you be quiet , then ? said the queen wickedly . 
'Yes , yes , queen . 
I only meant to coax you . 
'Hands off ! cried the queen triumphantly . 
You may come when you like . 
But as long as I am queen I will sleep in my shoes . 
It is my royal privilege . 
Harelip , go to bed . 
'I'm going , said Harelip sleepily . 
'So am I , said the king . 
'Come along , then , said the queen 'and mind you are good , or I'll 'Oh , no , no , no ! screamed the king in the most supplicating of tones . 
Curdie heard only a muttered reply in the distance and then the cave was quite still . 
They had left the fire burning , and the light came through brighter than before . 
Curdie thought it was time to try again if anything could be done . 
But he found he could not get even a finger through the chink between the slab and the rock . 
He gave a great rush with his shoulder against the slab , but it yielded no more than if it had been part of the rock . 
All he could do was to sit down and think again . 
Meantime , until they should come again at night , there was nothing for him to do but forge new rhymes , now his only weapons . 
CHAPTER Irene's Clue That same morning early , the princess woke in a terrible fright . 
There was a hideous noise in her room creatures snarling and hissing and rocketing about as if they were fighting . 
The moment she came to herself , she remembered something she had never thought of again what her grandmother told her to do when she was frightened . 
She immediately took off her ring and put it under her pillow . 
As she did so she fancied she felt a finger and thumb take it gently from under her palm . 
'It must be my grandmother ! she said to herself , and the thought gave her such courage that she stopped to put on her dainty little slippers before running from the room . 
While doing this she caught sight of a long cloak of sky blue , thrown over the back of a chair by the bedside . 
She had never seen it before but it was evidently waiting for her . 
When she reached the door she found it went down and ran along the floor , so that she had almost to crawl in order to keep a hold of it . 
Then , to her surprise , and somewhat to her dismay , she found that instead of leading her towards the stair it turned in quite the opposite direction . 
It led her through certain narrow passages towards the kitchen , turning aside ere she reached it , and guiding her to a door which communicated with a small back yard . 
Some of the maids were already up , and this door was standing open . 
Across the yard the thread still ran along the ground , until it brought her to a door in the wall which opened upon the Mountainside . 
When she had passed through , the thread rose to about half her height , and she could hold it with ease as she walked . 
It led her straight up the mountain . 
The cause of her alarm was less frightful than she supposed . 
How the nurse came to sleep through it was a mystery , but I suspect the old lady had something to do with it . 
It was a clear warm morning . 
The wind blew deliciously over the Mountainside . 
Here and there she saw a late primrose but she did not stop to call upon them . 
The sky was mottled with small clouds . 
The sun was not yet up , but some of their fluffy edges had caught his light , and hung out orange and gold coloured fringes upon the air . 
The dew lay in round drops upon the leaves , and hung like tiny diamond ear rings from the blades of grass about her path . 
'How lovely that bit of gossamer is ! thought the princess , looking at a long undulating line that shone at some distance from her up the hill . 
It was not the time for gossamers though and Irene soon discovered that it was her own thread she saw shining on before her in the light of the morning . 
After leading her up a good distance , the thread turned to the left , and down the path upon which she and Lootie had met Curdie . 
But she never thought of that , for now in the morning light , with its far outlook over the country , no path could have been more open and airy and cheerful . 
By and by she came to a little stream that jabbered and prattled down the hill , and up the side of the stream went both path and thread . 
But still on went the thread , and on went the princess . 
A shudder ran through her from head to foot when she found that the thread was actually taking her into the hole out of which the stream ran . 
It ran out babbling joyously , but she had to go in . 
Right into the hole she went , which was high enough to let her walk without stooping . 
For a little way there was a brown glimmer , but at the first turn it all but ceased , and before she had gone many paces she was in total darkness . 
Then she began to be frightened indeed . 
And she became more and more sure that the thread could not have gone there of itself , and that her grandmother must have sent it . 
Sometimes she heard the noise of water , a dull gurgling inside the rock . 
By and by she heard the sounds of blows , which came nearer and nearer but again they grew duller , and almost died away . 
In a hundred directions she turned , obedient to the guiding thread . 
Here the thread began to rise . 
It rose as high as her head and higher still . 
But presently she came to a huge heap of stones , piled in a slope against the wall of the cavern . 
For one terrible moment she felt as if her grandmother had forsaken her . 
She threw herself upon the heap , and began to cry . 
It was well she did not know what creatures , one of them with stone shoes on her feet , were lying in the next cave . 
But neither did she know who was on the other side of the slab . 
At length the thought struck her that at least she could follow the thread backwards , and thus get out of the mountain , and home . 
She rose at once , and found the thread . 
But the instant she tried to feel it backwards , it vanished from her touch . 
Forwards , it led her hand up to the heap of stones backwards it seemed nowhere . 
Neither could she see it as before in the light of the fire . 
She burst into a wailing cry , and again threw herself down on the stones . 
CHAPTER The Escape As the princess lay and sobbed she kept feeling the thread mechanically , following it with her finger many times up to the stones in which it disappeared . 
By and by she began , still mechanically , to poke her finger in after it between the stones as far as she could . 
All at once it came into her head that she might remove some of the stones and see where the thread went next . 
Almost laughing at herself for never having thought of this before , she jumped to her feet . 
After clearing them away a little , she found that the thread turned and went straight downwards . 
Hence , as the heap sloped a good deal , growing of course wider towards its base , she had to throw away a multitude of stones to follow the thread . 
She had got about half way down when she started , and nearly fell with fright . 
Close to her ears as it seemed , a voice broke out singing 'Jabber , bother , smash ! You'll have it all in a crash . 
Jabber , smash , bother ! You'll have the worst of the pother . 
But he had uttered enough to let Irene know who he was . 
'It's Curdie ! she cried joyfully . 
'Hush ! hush ! came Curdie's voice again from somewhere . 
'Why , you were singing loud ! said Irene . 
But they know I am here , and they don't know you are . 
Who are you ? 'I'm Irene , answered the princess . 
'I know who you are quite well . 
'Why , how ever did you come here , Irene ? 'My great great grandmother sent me and I think I've found out why . 
You can't get out , I suppose ? 'No , I can't . 
What are you doing ? 'Clearing away a huge heap of stones . 
'There's a princess ! exclaimed Curdie , in a tone of delight , but still speaking in little more than a whisper . 
'I can't think how you got here , though . 
'my grandmother sent me after her thread . 
'I don't know what you mean , said Curdie 'but so you're there , it doesn't much matter . 
'Oh , yes , it does ! returned Irene . 
'I should never have been here but for her . 
'You can tell me all about it when we get out , then . 
There's no time to lose now , 'said Curdie . 
And Irene went to work , as fresh as when she began . 
'There's such a lot of stones ! she said . 
'It will take me a long time to get them all away . 
'How far on have you got ? asked Curdie . 
'I've got about the half away , but the other half is ever so much bigger . 
'I don't think you will have to move the lower half . 
Do you see a slab laid up against the wall ? Irene looked , and felt about with her hands , and soon perceived the outlines of the slab . 
'Yes , she answered , 'I do . 
'Then , I think , rejoined Curdie , 'when you have cleared the slab about half way down , or a bit more , I shall be able to push it over . 
'I must follow my thread , returned Irene , 'whatever I do . 
'What do you mean ? 'exclaimed Curdie . 
'You will see when you get out , answered the princess , and went on harder than ever . 
But she was soon satisfied that what Curdie wanted done and what the thread wanted done were one and the same thing . 
'Stand quite clear of it , then , said Curdie , 'and let me know when you are ready . 
Irene got off the heap , and stood on one side of it . 
'Now , Curdie ! she cried . 
Curdie gave a great rush with his shoulder against it . 
Out tumbled the slab on the heap , and out crept Curdie over the top of it . 
'You've saved my life , Irene ! he whispered . 
'Oh , Curdie ! I'm so glad ! Let's get out of this horrid place as fast as we can . 
'That's easier said than done , returned he . 
'Oh , no , it's quite easy , said Irene . 
'We have only to follow my thread . 
I am sure that it's going to take us out now . 
She had already begun to follow it over the fallen slab into the hole , while Curdie was searching the floor of the cavern for his pickaxe . 
'Here it is ! he cried . 
'No , it is not , he added , in a disappointed tone . 
'What can it be , then ? I declare it's a torch . 
That is jolly ! It's better almost than my pickaxe . 
Much better if it weren't for those stone shoes ! he went on , as he lighted the torch by blowing the last embers of the expiring fire . 
'Where are you going there ? he cried . 
'That's not the way out . 
That's where I couldn't get out . 
'I know that , whispered Irene . 
'But this is the way my thread goes , and I must follow it . 
'What nonsense the child talks ! said Curdie to himself . 
'I must follow her , though , and see that she comes to no harm . 
She will soon find she can't get out that way , and then she will come with me . 
So he crept over the slab once more into the hole with his torch in his hand . 
But when he looked about in it , he could see her nowhere . 
The princess must have crept in there . 
He got on his knees and one hand , holding the torch with the other , and crept after her . 
'I knew you couldn't go wrong in that narrow hole , but now you must keep by me , for here is a great wide place , she said . 
'I can't understand it , said Curdie , half to himself , half to Irene . 
'Never mind , she returned . 
'Wait till we get out . 
Curdie , utterly astonished that she had already got so far , and by a path he had known nothing of , thought it better to let her do as she pleased . 
So she's just as likely to find her way as I am , and as she insists on taking the lead , I must follow . 
We can't be much worse off than we are , anyhow . 
Curdie went on after her , flashing his torch about , and trying to see something of what lay around them . 
Suddenly he started back a pace as the light fell upon something close by which Irene was passing . 
He lowered his torch instantly lest the light should awake them . 
As he did so it flashed upon his pickaxe , lying by the side of the queen , whose hand lay close by the handle of it . 
'Stop one moment , he whispered . 
'Hold my torch , and don't let the light on their faces . 
Curdie drew his pickaxe carefully away , and as he did so spied one of her feet , projecting from under the skins . 
The great clumsy granite shoe , exposed thus to his hand , was a temptation not to be resisted . 
He laid hold of it , and , with cautious efforts , drew it off . 
The moment he succeeded , he saw to his astonishment that what he had sung in ignorance , to annoy the queen , was actually true she had six horrible toes . 
But as he pulled at the second shoe the queen gave a growl and sat up in bed . 
The same instant the king awoke also and sat up beside her . 
'Run , Irene ! cried Curdie , for though he was not now in the least afraid for himself , he was for the princess . 
He darted to her side , forgetting neither the queen's shoe nor his pickaxe , and caught hold of her hand , as she sped fearlessly where her thread guided her . 
They heard the queen give a great bellow but they had a good start , for it would be some time before they could get torches lighted to pursue them . 
just as they thought they saw a gleam behind them , the thread brought them to a very narrow opening , through which Irene crept easily , and Curdie with difficulty . 
'Now , 'said Curdie 'I think we shall be safe . 
'Of course we shall , returned Irene . 
'Why do you think so ? 'asked Curdie . 
'Because my grandmother is taking care of us . 
'That's all nonsense , said Curdie . 
'I don't know what you mean . 
'Then if you don't know what I mean , what right have you to call it nonsense ? asked the princess , a little offended . 
'I beg your pardon , Irene , said Curdie 'I did not mean to vex you . 
'Of course not , returned the princess . 
'But why do you think we shall be safe ? 'Because the king and queen are far too stout to get through that hole . 
'There might be ways round , said the princess . 
'To be sure there might we are not out of it yet , acknowledged Curdie . 
'But what do you mean by the king and queen ? asked the princess . 
'I should never call such creatures as those a king and a queen . 
'Their own people do , though , answered Curdie . 
When he had finished , he begged Irene to tell him how it was that she had come to his rescue . 
So Irene too had to tell a long story , which she did in rather a roundabout manner , interrupted by many questions concerning things she had not explained . 
'But how ever did Lootie come to let you go into the mountains alone ? 'he asked . 
'Lootie knows nothing about it . 
I left her fast asleep at least I think so . 
I hope my grandmother won't let her get into trouble , for it wasn't her fault at all , as my grandmother very well knows . 
'But how did you find your way to me ? persisted Curdie . 
'I told you already , answered Irene 'by keeping my finger upon my grandmother's thread , as I am doing now . 
'You don't mean you've got the thread there ? 'Of course I do . 
I have told you so ten times already . 
I have hardly except when I was removing the stones taken my finger off it . 
There ! she added , guiding Curdie's hand to the thread , 'you feel it yourself don't you ? 'I feel nothing at all , replied Curdie . 
'Then what can be the matter with your finger ? I feel it perfectly . 
Curdie was too polite to say he did not believe there was any thread there at all . 
What he did say was 'Well , I can make nothing of it . 
'I can , though , and you must be glad of that , for it will do for both of us . 
'We're not out yet , said Curdie . 
'We soon shall be , returned Irene confidently . 
'It goes into the ground now , Curdie , she said , stopping . 
He had been listening to another sound , which his practised ear had caught long ago , and which also had been growing louder . 
It was the noise the goblin miners made at their work , and they seemed to be at no great distance now . 
Irene heard it the moment she stopped . 
'What is that noise ? she asked . 
'Do you know , Curdie ? 'Yes . 
It is the goblins digging and burrowing , he answered . 
'And you don't know what they do it for ? 'No I haven't the least idea . 
Would you like to see them ? he asked , wishing to have another try after their secret . 
'If my thread took me there , I shouldn't much mind but I don't want to see them , and I can't leave my thread . 
It leads me down into the hole , and we had better go at once . 
Shall I go in first ? said Curdie . 
You can't feel the thread , she answered , stepping down through a narrow break in the floor of the cavern . 
'Oh ! she cried , 'I am in the water . 
It is running strong but it is not deep , and there is just room to walk . 
He tried , but the hole was too small for him to get in . 
'Go on a little bit he said , shouldering his pickaxe . 
In a few moments he had cleared a larger opening and followed her . 
They went on , down and down with the running water , Curdie getting more and more afraid it was leading them to some terrible gulf in the heart of the mountain . 
In one or two places he had to break away the rock to make room before even Irene could get through at least without hurting herself . 
But at length they spied a glimmer of light , and in a minute more they were almost blinded by the full sunlight , into which they emerged . 
They had come out by the channel of the little stream . 
She danced and clapped her hands with delight . 
'There ! don't you see it shining on before us ? she added . 
'I don't see anything , persisted Curdie . 
'Then you must believe without seeing , said the princess 'for you can't deny it has brought us out of the mountain . 
'I can't deny we are out of the mountain , and I should be very ungrateful indeed to deny that you had brought me out of it . 
'I couldn't have done it but for the thread , persisted Irene . 
'That's the part I don't understand . 
'well , come along , and Lootie will get you something to eat . 
I am sure you must want it very much . 
'Very well , Curdie but you can't get out without coming this way , and I will take you through the house , for that is nearest . 
They met no one by the way , for , indeed , as before , the people were here and there and everywhere searching for the princess . 
When they got in Irene found that the thread , as she had half expected , went up the old staircase , and a new thought struck her . 
She turned to Curdie and said 'My grandmother wants me . 
Do come up with me and see her . 
Then you will know that I have been telling you the truth . 
Do come to please me , Curdie . 
I can't bear you should think what I say is not true . 
'I never doubted you believed what you said , returned Curdie . 
'I only thought you had some fancy in your head that was not correct . 
'But do come , dear Curdie . 
The little miner could not withstand this appeal , and though he felt shy in what seemed to him a huge grand house , he yielded , and followed her up the stair . 
'Come in , answered the sweet voice of her grandmother , and Irene opened the door and entered , followed by Curdie . 
'You darling ! cried the lady , who was seated by a fire of red roses mingled with white . 
'I've been waiting for you , and indeed getting a little anxious about you , and beginning to think whether I had not better go and fetch you myself . 
As she spoke she took the little princess in her arms and placed her upon her lap . 
She was dressed in white now , and looking if possible more lovely than ever . 
'I've brought Curdie , grandmother . 
He wouldn't believe what I told him and so I've brought him . 
He is a good boy , Curdie , and a brave boy . 
Aren't you glad you've got him out ? 'Yes , grandmother . 
But it wasn't very good of him not to believe me when I was telling him the truth . 
'People must believe what they can , and those who believe more must not be hard upon those who believe less . 
I doubt if you would have believed it all yourself if you hadn't seen some of it . 
'Ah ! yes , grandmother , I dare say . 
I'm sure you are right . 
'I don't know that , replied her grandmother . 
'Won't you , Curdie ? said Irene , looking round at him as she asked the question . 
He was standing in the middle of the floor , staring , and looking strangely bewildered . 
This she thought came of his astonishment at the beauty of the lady . 
'Make a bow to my grandmother , Curdie , she said . 
'I don't see any grandmother , answered Curdie rather gruffly . 
'Don't see my grandmother , when I'm sitting in her lap ? exclaimed the princess . 
'No , I don't , reiterated Curdie , in an offended tone . 
'Don't you see the lovely fire of roses white ones amongst them this time ? asked Irene , almost as bewildered as he . 
'No , I don't , answered Curdie , almost sulkily . 
'Then what do you see ? asked Irene , who perceived at once that for her not to believe him was at least as bad as for him not to believe her . 
I think you had better drop it , princess , and go down to the nursery , like a good girl . 
'But don't you hear my grandmother talking to me ? asked Irene , almost crying . 
I hear the cooing of a lot of pigeons . 
If you won't come down , I will go without you . 
I think that will be better anyhow , for I'm sure nobody who met us would believe a word we said to them . 
They would think we made it all up . 
I don't expect anybody but my own father and mother to believe me . 
They know I wouldn't tell a story . 
'And yet you won't believe me , Curdie ? expostulated the princess , now fairly crying with vexation and sorrow at the gulf between her and Curdie . 
I can't , and I can't help it , said Curdie , turning to leave the room . 
'What SHALL I do , grandmother ? sobbed the princess , turning her face round upon the lady's bosom , and shaking with suppressed sobs . 
'You must give him time , said her grandmother 'and you must be content not to be believed for a while . 
It is very hard to bear but I have had to bear it , and shall have to bear it many a time yet . 
I will take care of what Curdie thinks of you in the end . 
You must let him go now . 
'You're not coming , are you ? asked Curdie . 
'No , Curdie my grandmother says I must let you go . 
Turn to the right when you get to the bottom of all the stairs , and that will take you to the hall where the great door is . 
'Oh ! I don't doubt I can find my way without you , princess , or your old grannie's thread either , said Curdie quite rudely . 
'Oh , Curdie ! Curdie ! 'I wish I had gone home at once . 
I'm very much obliged to you , Irene , for getting me out of that hole , but I wish you hadn't made a fool of me afterwards . 
He said this as he opened the door , which he left open , and , without another word , went down the stair . 
Irene listened with dismay to his departing footsteps . 
Then turning again to the lady 'What does it all mean , grandmother ? she sobbed , and burst into fresh tears . 
'It means , my love , that I did not mean to show myself . 
Curdie is not yet able to believe some things . 
Seeing is not believing it is only seeing . 
You remember I told you that if Lootie were to see me , she would rub her eyes , forget the half she saw , and call the other half nonsense . 
'Yes but I should have thought Curdie 'You are right . 
Curdie is much farther on than Lootie , and you will see what will come of it . 
But in the meantime you must be content , I say , to be misunderstood for a while . 
We are all very anxious to be understood , and it is very hard not to be . 
But there is one thing much more necessary . 
'What is that , grandmother ? 'To understand other people . 
I must be fair for if I'm not fair to other people , I'm not worth being understood myself . 
So as Curdie can't help it , I will not be vexed with him , but just wait . 
'There's my own dear child , said her grandmother , and pressed her close to her bosom . 
'Why weren't you in your workroom when we came up , grandmother ? asked Irene , after a few moments' silence . 
'If I had been there , Curdie would have seen me well enough . 
But why should I be there rather than in this beautiful room ? 'I thought you would be spinning . 
'I've nobody to spin for just at present . 
I never spin without knowing for whom I am spinning . 
Putting in her hand , she drew it out again and held up the shining ball between her finger and thumb . 
'I've got it now , you see , she said , coming back to the princess , 'all ready for you when you want it . 
Going to her cabinet , she laid it in the same drawer as before . 
'And here is your ring , she added , taking it from the little finger of her left hand and putting it on the forefinger of Irene's right hand . 
'Oh , thank you , grandmother ! I feel so safe now ! 'You are very tired , my child , the lady went on . 
'Your hands are hurt with the stones , and I have counted nine bruises on you . 
just look what you are like . 
And she held up to her a little mirror which she had brought from the cabinet . 
The princess burst into a merry laugh at the sight . 
The lady laughed too , and lifting her again upon her knee , took off her cloak and night gown . 
Then she carried her to the side of the room . 
Her hands closed involuntarily on the beautiful arms that held her , and that was all . 
The lady pressed her once more to her bosom , saying 'Do not be afraid , my child . 
'No , grandmother , answered the princess , with a little gasp and the next instant she sank in the clear cool water . 
When she opened her eyes , she saw nothing but a strange lovely blue over and beneath and all about her . 
The lady , and the beautiful room , had vanished from her sight , and she seemed utterly alone . 
But instead of being afraid , she felt more than happy perfectly blissful . 
Nor could she remember a single line after it was gone . 
It vanished , like the poetry in a dream , as fast as it came . 
How long she lay in the water she did not know . 
It seemed a long time not from weariness but from pleasure . 
But at last she felt the beautiful hands lay hold of her , and through the gurgling water she was lifted out into the lovely room . 
The lady carried her to the fire , and sat down with her in her lap , and dried her tenderly with the softest towel . 
It was so different from Lootie's drying . 
When the lady had done , she stooped to the fire , and drew from it her night gown , as white as snow . 
'How delicious ! exclaimed the princess . 
'It smells of all the roses in the world , I think . 
When she stood up on the floor she felt as if she had been made over again . 
Every bruise and all weariness were gone , and her hands were soft and whole as ever . 
'Now I am going to put you to bed for a good sleep , said her grandmother . 
'But what will Lootie be thinking ? And what am I to say to her when she asks me where I have been ? 'Don't trouble yourself about it . 
You will find it all come right , said her grandmother , and laid her into the blue bed , under the rosy counterpane . 
'There is just one thing more , said Irene . 
'I am a little anxious about Curdie . 
As I brought him into the house , I ought to have seen him safe on his way home . 
'I took care of all that , answered the lady . 
'I told you to let him go , and therefore I was bound to look after him . 
Nobody saw him , and he is now eating a good dinner in his mother's cottage far up in the mountain . 
'Then I will go to sleep , said Irene , and in a few minutes she was fast asleep . 
When his meal was ready , she left him to eat it , and hurried to the mine to let his father know he was safe . 
When she came back , she found him fast asleep upon her bed nor did he wake until his father came home in the evening . 
'Now , Curdie , his mother said , as they sat at supper , 'tell us the whole story from beginning to end , just as it all happened . 
Curdie obeyed , and told everything to the point where they came out upon the lawn in the garden of the king's house . 
'And what happened after that ? asked his mother . 
'You haven't told us all . 
You ought to be very happy at having got away from those demons , and instead of that I never saw you so gloomy . 
There must be something more . 
Besides , you do not speak of that lovely child as I should like to hear you . 
She saved your life at the risk of her own , and yet somehow you don't seem to think much of it . 
'She talked such nonsense' answered Curdie , 'and told me a pack of things that weren't a bit true and I can't get over it . 
'What were they ? asked his father . 
'Your mother may be able to throw some light upon them . 
Then Curdie made a clean breast of it , and told them everything . 
They all sat silent for some time , pondering the strange tale . 
At last Curdie's mother spoke . 
'You confess , my boy , she said , 'there is something about the whole affair you do not understand ? 'Yes , of course , mother , he answered . 
'Then you have no right to say what she told you was not true . 
'It's no explanation at all , mother and I can't believe it . 
'That may be only because you do not understand it . 
If you did , you would probably find it was an explanation , and believe it thoroughly . 
I don't blame you for not being able to believe it , but I do blame you for fancying such a child would try to deceive you . 
Why should she ? Depend upon it , she told you all she knew . 
Until you had found a better way of accounting for it all , you might at least have been more sparing of your judgement . 
'That is what something inside me has been saying all the time , said Curdie , hanging down his head . 
'But what do you make of the grandmother ? That is what I can't get over . 
You would have thought she really meant and believed that she saw every one of the things she talked about . 
And not one of them there ! It was too bad , I say . 
'Perhaps some people can see things other people can't see , Curdie , said his mother very gravely . 
'Do tell me , mother . 
Perhaps it will help me to think better of the princess . 
'That's why I am tempted to tell you , replied his mother . 
There were strange stories told concerning them all good stories but strange , very strange . 
What they were I cannot tell , for I only remember the faces of my grandmother and my mother as they talked together about them . 
There was wonder and awe not fear in their eyes , and they whispered , and never spoke aloud . 
But what I saw myself was this Your father was going to work in the mine one night , and I had been down with his supper . 
It was soon after we were married , and not very long before you were born . 
It was pretty dark , and in some parts of the road where the rocks overhung nearly quite dark . 
One of them blocked up the path , and they all began tormenting and teasing me in a way it makes me shudder to think of even now . 
'If I had only been with you ! cried father and son in a breath . 
The mother gave a funny little smile , and went on . 
'They had some of their horrible creatures with them too , and I must confess I was dreadfully frightened . 
They had torn my clothes very much , and I was afraid they were going to tear myself to pieces , when suddenly a great white soft light shone upon me . 
The cobs dropped persecuting me , and looked dazed , and I thought they were going to run away , but presently they began again . 
The same moment , however , down the path from the globe of light came a bird , shining like silver in the sun . 
It gave a few rapid flaps first , and then , with its wings straight out , shot , sliding down the slope of the light . 
It looked to me just like a white pigeon . 
But I had no more trouble with the cobs that night or ever after . 
'How strange ! exclaimed Curdie . 
'Yes , it was strange but I can't help believing it , whether you do or not , said his mother . 
'It's exactly as your mother told it to me the very next morning , said his father . 
'You don't think I'm doubting my own mother ? cried Curdie . 
'There are other people in the world quite as well worth believing as your own mother , said his mother . 
'I don't know that she's so much the fitter to be believed that she happens to be your mother , Mr. Curdie . 
There are mothers far more likely to tell lies than the little girl I saw talking to the primroses a few weeks ago . 
If she were to lie I should begin to doubt my own word . 
'But princesses have told lies as well as other people , said Curdie . 
'Yes , but not princesses like that child . 
She's a good girl , I am certain , and that's more than being a princess . 
Depend upon it you will have to be sorry for behaving so to her , Curdie . 
You ought at least to have held your tongue . 
'I am sorry now , answered Curdie . 
'You ought to go and tell her so , then . 
'I don't see how I could manage that . 
They wouldn't let a miner boy like me have a word with her alone and I couldn't tell her before that nurse of hers . 
She'd be asking ever so many questions , and I don't know how many the little princess would like me to answer . 
She told me that Lootie didn't know anything about her coming to get me out of the mountain . 
I am certain she would have prevented her somehow if she had known it . 
But I may have a chance before long , and meantime I must try to do something for her . 
I think , father , I have got on the track at last . 
'Have you , indeed , my boy ? said Peter . 
'I am sure you deserve some success you have worked very hard for it . 
'Impossible , my boy , without a chart , or at least a compass , returned his father . 
'Well , I think I have nearly discovered in what direction the cobs are mining . 
If I am right , I know something else that I can put to it , and then one and one will make three . 
'They very often do , Curdie , as we miners ought to be very well aware . 
Now tell us , my boy , what the two things are , and see whether we can guess at the same third as you . 
'I don't see what that has to do with the princess , interposed his mother . 
'I will soon let you see that , mother . 
Perhaps you may think me foolish , but until I am sure there , is nothing in my present fancy , I am more determined than ever to go on with my observations . 
just as we came to the channel by which we got out , I heard the miners at work somewhere near I think down below us . 
But I never could tell in what direction they were going . 
I will take a light with me 'Oh , Curdie , cried his mother , 'then they will see you . 
'I'm no more afraid of them now than I was before , rejoined Curdie , 'now that I've got this precious shoe . 
They can't make another such in a hurry , and one bare foot will do for my purpose . 
Woman as she may be , I won't spare her next time . 
But I shall be careful with my light , for I don't want them to see me . 
I won't stick it in my hat . 
'Go on , then , and tell us what you mean to do . 
'I mean to take a bit of paper with me and a pencil , and go in at the mouth of the stream by which we came out . 
If it should prove to be nearly parallel with the stream , I shall know it is towards the king's house they are working . 
'And what if you should ? How much wiser will you be then ? 'Wait a minute , mother dear . 
'I see what you are driving at now , said his mother . 
'Yes but they think so much of themselves ! said his mother . 
The bantam is the proudest cock in my little yard . 
'And I fancy , said Curdie , 'if they once got her , they would tell the king they would kill her except he consented to the marriage . 
'They might say so , said his father , 'but they wouldn't kill her they would keep her alive for the sake of the hold it gave them over our king . 
Whatever he did to them , they would threaten to do the same to the princess . 
'And they are bad enough to torment her just for their own amusement I know that , said his mother . 
'Anyhow , I will keep a watch on them , and see what they are up to , said Curdie . 
'It's too horrible to think of . 
I daren't let myself do it . 
But they shan't have her at least if I can help it . 
I saw a place where I can climb over the wall of the garden quite easily . 
'You must mind and keep out of the way of the men on the watch , said his mother . 
I don't want them to know anything about it . 
They would spoil it all . 
The cobs would only try some other plan they are such obstinate creatures ! I shall take good care , mother . 
They won't kill and eat me either , if they should come upon me . 
So you needn't mind them . 
His mother got him what he had asked for , and Curdie set out . 
Close beside the door by which the princess left the garden for the mountain stood a great rock , and by climbing it Curdie got over the wall . 
He tied his clue to a stone just inside the channel of the stream , and took his pickaxe with him . 
He had not gone far before he encountered a horrid creature coming towards the mouth . 
The spot was too narrow for two of almost any size or shape , and besides Curdie had no wish to let the creature pass . 
Having dragged him out , he made haste to get in again before another should stop up the way . 
I need not follow him farther in this night's adventures . 
'Are those horrid creatures gone ? asked the princess , remembering first what had terrified her in the morning . 
'You naughty , naughty little princess ! cried Lootie . 
'I didn't do that , Lootie , said Irene , very quietly . 
'Don't tell stories ! cried her nurse quite rudely . 
'I shall tell you nothing at all , said Irene . 
'That's just as bad , said the nurse . 
'Just as bad to say nothing at all as to tell stories ? exclaimed the princess . 
'I will ask my papa about that . 
And I don't think he will like you to say so . 
'Tell me directly what you mean by it ! screamed the nurse , half wild with anger at the princess and fright at the possible consequences to herself . 
'You are very rude , princess , said the nurse . 
'You are so rude , Lootie , that I will not speak to you again till you are sorry . 
Why should I , when I know you will not believe me ? returned the princess . 
'You are the most provoking child ! cried her nurse . 
'You deserve to be well punished for your wicked behaviour . 
Every one stared at these words . 
Up to this moment they had all regarded her as little more than a baby . 
But the housekeeper was afraid of the nurse , and sought to patch matters up , saying 'I am sure , princess , nursie did not mean to be rude to you . 
'I do not think my papa would wish me to have a nurse who spoke to me as Lootie does . 
If she thinks I tell lies , she had better either say so to my papa , or go away . 
The crowd of servants made eager way for him , and he bowed low before the little princess's bed . 
'I shall send my servant at once , on the fastest horse in the stable , to tell your king papa that Your Royal Highness desires his presence . 
When you have chosen one of these under servants to wait upon you , I shall order the room to be cleared . 
'Thank you very much , Sir Walter , said the princess , and her eye glanced towards a rosy cheeked girl who had lately come to the house as a scullery maid . 
'I think , Sir Walter , said the princess , 'I will keep Lootie . 
But I put myself under your care and you need not trouble my king papa until I speak to you again . 
Lootie , will you please to dress me . 
CHAPTER Curdie Comes to Grief Everything was for some time quiet above ground . 
The king was still away in a distant part of his dominions . 
The men at arms kept watching about the house . 
Curdie kept watching in the mountain , and the goblins kept burrowing deeper into the earth . 
As long as they went deeper there was , Curdie judged , no immediate danger . 
At the same time she was considerably altered for the better in her behaviour to the princess . 
She could not help seeing that she was no longer a mere child , but wiser than her age would account for . 
All this time Curdie had to be sorry , without a chance of confessing , that he had behaved so unkindly to the princess . 
This perhaps made him the more diligent in his endeavours to serve her . 
His mother and he often talked on the subject , and she comforted him , and told him she was sure he would some day have the opportunity he so much desired . 
So you see there is some ground for supposing that Curdie was not a miner only , but a prince as well . 
Many such instances have been known in the world's history . 
All at once , one night , coming to a slope of very hard rock , they began to ascend along the inclined plane of its surface . 
For several following nights he continued to haunt the garden and listen , but with no success . 
He instantly squatted in the hope of eluding further notice . 
But when he heard the sound of running feet , he jumped up to take the chance of escape by flight . 
He fell , however , with a keen shoot of pain , for the bolt of a crossbow had wounded his leg , and the blood was now streaming from it . 
He was instantly laid Hold of by two or three of the men at arms . 
It was useless to struggle , and he submitted in silence . 
'It's a boy ! cried several of them together , in a tone of amazement . 
'I thought it was one of those demons . 
What are you about here ? 'Going to have a little rough usage , apparently , said Curdie , laughing , as the men shook him . 
'Impertinence will do you no good . 
You have no business here in the king's grounds , and if you don't give a true account of yourself , you shall fare as a thief . 
'Why , what else could he be ? said one . 
'He might have been after a lost kid , you know , suggested another . 
'I see no good in trying to excuse him . 
He has no business here , anyhow . 
'Let me go away , then , if you please , said Curdie . 
'But we don't please not except you give a good account of yourself . 
'I don't feel quite sure whether I can trust you , said Curdie . 
'We are the king's own men at arms , said the captain courteously , for he was taken with Curdie's appearance and courage . 
'Well , I will tell you all about it if you will promise to listen to me and not do anything rash . 
'I call that cool ! said one of the party , laughing . 
'He will tell us what mischief he was about , if we promise to do as pleases him . 
'I was about no mischief , said Curdie . 
But ere he could say more he turned faint , and fell senseless on the grass . 
Then first they discovered that the bolt they had shot , taking him for one of the goblin creatures , had wounded him . 
They carried him into the house and laid him down in the hall . 
The report spread that they had caught a robber , and the servants crowded in to see the villain . 
Amongst the rest came the nurse . 
The moment she saw him she exclaimed with indignation 'I declare it's the same young rascal of a miner that was rude to me and the princess on the mountain . 
He actually wanted to kiss the princess . 
When he heard this , the captain , although he had considerable doubt of its truth , resolved to keep Curdie a prisoner until they could search into the affair . 
He passed a troubled night , and in the morning they found him talking wildly . 
In the evening he came to himself , but felt very weak , and his leg was exceedingly painful . 
Wondering where he was , and seeing one of the men at arms in the room , he began to question him and soon recalled the events of the preceding night . 
They did for him what they could , and promised everything he wanted , but with no intention of fulfilment . 
CHAPTER The Goblin Miners That same night several of the servants were having a chat together before going to bed . 
'What can that noise be ? said one of the housemaids , who had been listening for a moment or two . 
'I've heard it the last two nights , said the cook . 
'If there were any about the place , I should have taken it for rats , but my Tom keeps them far enough . 
'I've heard , though , said the scullery maid , 'that rats move about in great companies sometimes . 
There may be an army of them invading us . 
I've heard the noises yesterday and today too . 
'It'll be grand fun , then , for my Tom and Mrs Housekeeper's Bob , said the cook . 
'They'll be friends for once in their lives , and fight on the same side . 
I'll engage Tom and Bob together will put to flight any number of rats . 
'It seems to me , said the nurse , 'that the noises are much too loud for that . 
I have heard them all day , and my princess has asked me several times what they could be . 
Sometimes they sound like distant thunder , and sometimes like the noises you hear in the mountain from those horrid miners underneath . 
'I shouldn't wonder , said the cook , 'if it was the miners after all . 
They may have come on some hole in the mountain through which the noises reach to us . 
They are always boring and blasting and breaking , you know . 
As he spoke , there came a great rolling rumble beneath them , and the house quivered . 
They all started up in affright , and rushing to the hall found the gentlemen at arms in consternation also . 
He had not believed Curdie . 
If he had , he would at once have thought of what he had said , and would have taken precautions . 
As they heard nothing more , they concluded that Sir Walter was right , and that the danger was over for perhaps another hundred years . 
By scooping this away they came out in the king's wine cellar . 
The queen went stumping along in one shoe of stone and one of skin . 
This could not have been pleasant , and my readers may wonder that , with such skilful workmen about her , she had not yet replaced the shoe carried off by Curdie . 
I presume he insisted on her being content with skin shoes , and allowed her to wear the remaining granite one on the present occasion only because she was going out to war . 
CHAPTER The Goblins in the King's House When Curdie fell asleep he began at once to dream . 
And now he thought he was lying wide awake where they had laid him , when suddenly he heard a great thundering sound . 
'The cobs are coming ! he said . 
'Now then , I will ! he said . 
'Here goes ! I am up now ! But yet again he found himself snug in bed . 
Twenty times he tried , and twenty times he failed for in fact he was not awake , only dreaming that he was . 
At length in an agony of despair , fancying he heard the goblins all over the house , he gave a great cry . 
Then there came , as he thought , a hand upon the lock of his door . 
It opened , and , looking up , he saw a lady with white hair , carrying a silver box in her hand , enter the room . 
At the last wave of her hands everything vanished , he felt himself sinking into the profoundest slumber , and remembered nothing more until he awoke in earnest . 
The setting moon was throwing a feeble light through the casement , and the house was full of uproar . 
There was soft heavy multitudinous stamping , a clashing and clanging of weapons , the voices of men and the cries of women , mixed with a hideous bellowing , which sounded victorious . 
When he reached the ground floor he found the whole place swarming . 
All the goblins of the mountain seemed gathered there . 
Away scattered the goblins in every direction into closets , up stairs , into chimneys , up on rafters , and down to the cellars . 
The last of the men at arms , the captain himself , was on the floor , buried beneath a wallowing crowd of goblins . 
Curdie burst in dancing and gyrating and stamping and singing like a small incarnate whirlwind . 
And now Curdie approached the group which , in trusting in the queen and her shoe , kept their guard over the prostrate captain . 
Her heart was quaking , however , and she kept moving about her skin shod foot with nervous apprehension . 
Meanwhile the rest rushed on the king and the bodyguard , sent them flying , and lifted the prostrate captain , who was all but pressed to death . 
It was some moments before he recovered breath and consciousness . 
'Where's the princess ? cried Curdie , again and again . 
No one knew , and off they all rushed in search of her . 
Through every room in the house they went , but nowhere was she to be found . 
Neither was one of the servants to be seen . 
The noise grew as his sharp ears guided him to a stair and so to the wine cellar . 
It was full of goblins , whom the butler was supplying with wine as fast as he could draw it . 
While the queen and her party had encountered the men at arms , Harelip with another company had gone off to search the house . 
They captured every one they met , and when they could find no more , they hurried away to carry them safe to the caverns below . 
Amongst them was the terror stricken face of Lootie but nowhere could he see the princess . 
'Stamp on their feet stamp on their feet ! he shouted , and in a moment the goblins were disappearing through the hole in the floor like rats and mice . 
They could not vanish so fast , however , but that many more goblin feet had to go limping back over the underground ways of the mountain that morning . 
Presently , however , they were reinforced from above by the king and his party , with the redoubtable queen at their head . 
Finding Curdie again busy amongst her unfortunate subjects , she rushed at him once more with the rage of despair , and this time gave him a bad bruise on the foot . 
But the queen was more wary as well as more agile than hitherto . 
The rest meantime , finding their adversary thus matched for the moment , paused in their headlong hurry , and turned to the shivering group of women in the corner . 
She gave a great shriek , and Curdie heard her , and saw the plight she was in . 
The prince had two defenceless feet , and on both of them Curdie stamped just as he reached the hole . 
He dropped his burden and rolled shrieking into the earth . 
But the same moment in rushed the captain and his men , and ran at them stamping furiously . 
They dared not encounter such an onset . 
Away they scurried , the queen foremost . 
Having thus rescued the servants , they set about searching the house once more . 
None of them could give the least information concerning the princess . 
Lootie was almost silly with terror , and , although scarcely able to walk would not leave Curdie's side for a single moment . 
She was as submissive and obedient as if he had been the king . 
He found the bedclothes tossed about , and most of them on the floor , while the princess's garments were scattered all over the room , which was in the greatest confusion . 
It was only too evident that the goblins had been there , and Curdie had no longer any doubt that she had been carried off at the very first of the inroad . 
It was the slightest touch , and when he looked he could see nothing . 
Feeling and peering about in the grey of the dawn , his fingers came upon a tight thread . 
He looked again , and narrowly , but still could see nothing . 
It flashed upon him that this must be the princess's thread . 
But he hurried on in the hope of overtaking her first . 
There it vanished from his fingers , and he could not find it , search as he might . 
The door was on the latch , and he entered . 
There sat his mother by the fire , and in her arms lay the princess , fast asleep . 
'Hush , Curdie ! said his mother . 
All at once she opened her eyes and fixed them on him . 
'Oh , Curdie ! you're come ! she said quietly . 
'I thought you would ! Curdie rose and stood before her with downcast eyes . 
'Irene , he said , 'I am very sorry I did not believe you . 
'Oh , never mind , Curdie ! answered the princess . 
'You couldn't , you know . 
You do believe me now , don't you ? 'I can't help it now . 
I ought to have helped it before . 
'Then you've come from my house , have you ? 'Yes , I have . 
'I didn't know you were there . 
'I've been there two or three days , I believe . 
'And I never knew it ! Then perhaps you can tell me why my grandmother has brought me here ? I can't think . 
I supposed you were in trouble again , and I had to get you out . 
'Then you didn't see the cobs ? 'asked Curdie . 
'No I haven't been into the mountain , I told you , Curdie . 
'But the cobs have been into your house all over it and into your bedroom , making such a row ! 'What did they want there ? It was very rude of them . 
'They wanted you to carry you off into the mountain with them , for a wife to their prince Harelip . 
'Oh , how dreadful' cried the princess , shuddering . 
'But you needn't be afraid , you know . 
Your grandmother takes care of you . 
'Ah ! you do believe in my grandmother , then ? I'm so glad ! She made me think you would some day . 
All at once Curdie remembered his dream , and was silent , thinking . 
'But how did you come to be in my house , and me not know it ? asked the princess . 
'Poor Curdie ! to lie there hurt and ill , and me never to know it ! exclaimed the princess , stroking his rough hand . 
'I would have come and nursed you , if they had told me . 
'I didn't see you were lame , said his mother . 
I was sure my grandmother had been to see you . 
Don't you smell the roses ? It was my grandmother healed your leg , and sent you to help me . 
'No , Princess Irene , said Curdie 'I wasn't good enough to be allowed to help you I didn't believe you . 
Your grandmother took care of you without me . 
'She sent you to help my people , anyhow . 
I wish my king papa would come . 
I do want so to tell him how good you have been ! 'But , said the mother , 'we are forgetting how frightened your people must be . 
You must take the princess home at once , Curdie or at least go and tell them where she is . 
Do let me have some breakfast first . 
They ought to have listened to me , and then they wouldn't have been taken by surprise as they were . 
'That is true , Curdie but it is not for you to blame them much . 
You remember ? 'Yes , mother , I do . 
Only I must really have something to eat . 
'You shall , my boy as fast as I can get it , said his mother , rising and setting the princess on her chair . 
But before his breakfast was ready , Curdie jumped up so suddenly as to startle both his companions . 
'Mother , mother ! he cried , 'I was forgetting . 
You must take the princess home yourself . 
I must go and wake my father . 
Without a word of explanation , he rushed to the place where his father was sleeping . 
Having thoroughly roused him with what he told him he darted out of the cottage . 
CHAPTER Masonwork He had all at once remembered the resolution of the goblins to carry out their second plan upon the failure of the first . 
No doubt they were already busy , and the mine was therefore in the greatest danger of being flooded and rendered useless not to speak of the lives of the miners . 
When he reached the mouth of the mine , after rousing all the miners within reach , he found his father and a good many more just entering . 
They all hurried to the gang by which he had found a way into the goblin country . 
There the foresight of Peter had already collected a great many blocks of stone , with cement , ready for building up the weak place well enough known to the goblins . 
Before the hour when they usually dropped work , they were satisfied the mine was secure . 
They had heard goblin hammers and pickaxes busy all the time , and at length fancied they heard sounds of water they had never heard before . 
But that was otherwise accounted for when they left the mine , for they stepped out into a tremendous storm which was raging all over the mountain . 
The thunder was bellowing , and the lightning lancing out of a huge black cloud which lay above it and hung down its edges of thick mist over its sides . 
The lightning was breaking out of the mountain , too , and flashing up into the cloud . 
From the state of the brooks , now swollen into raging torrents , it was evident that the storm had been storming all day . 
The wind was blowing as if it would blow him off the mountain , but , anxious about his mother and the princess , Curdie darted up through the thick of the tempest . 
Even if they had not set out before the storm came on , he did not judge them safe , for in such a storm even their poor little house was in danger . 
It was with great difficulty that he forced his way through one of them , and up to the door . 
The clay floor was one mass of mud , and the whole place looked wretched . 
But the faces of the mother and the princess shone as if their troubles only made them the merrier . 
Curdie burst out laughing at the sight of them . 
'I never had such fun ! said the princess , her eyes twinkling and her pretty teeth shining . 
'How nice it must be to live in a cottage on the mountain ! 'It all depends on what kind your inside house is , said the mother . 
'I know what you mean , said Irene . 
'That's the kind of thing my grandmother says . 
'They will be dreadfully frightened about you , said Peter to the princess , 'but we cannot help it . 
We must wait till the morning . 
With Curdie's help , the fire was lighted at last , and the mother set about making their supper and after supper they all told the princess stories till she grew sleepy . 
Then Curdie's mother laid her in Curdie's bed , which was in a tiny little garret room . 
CHAPTER The King an the Kiss The next morning the sun rose so bright that Irene said the rain had washed his face and let the light out clean . 
The torrents were still roaring down the side of the mountain , but they were so much smaller as not to be dangerous in the daylight . 
After an early breakfast , Peter went to his work and Curdie and his mother set out to take the princess home . 
Irene clung round his neck and he ran with her like a deer . 
When he entered the gate into the court , there sat the king on his horse , with all the people of the house about him , weeping and hanging their heads . 
The king was not weeping , but his face was white as a dead man's , and he looked as if the life had gone out of him . 
He went straight up to the king , where he sat on his horse . 
'Papa ! papa ! the princess cried , stretching out her arms to him 'here I am ! The king started . 
The colour rushed to his face . 
He gave an inarticulate cry . 
Curdie held up the princess , and the king bent down and took her from his arms . 
As he clasped her to his bosom , the big tears went dropping down his cheeks and his beard . 
The princess greeted them all as she nestled in her father's bosom , and the king did not set her down until she had told them all the story . 
And still as she told what Curdie had done , Sir Walter and others added to what she told , even Lootie joining in the praises of his courage and energy . 
Curdie held his peace , looking quietly up in the king's face . 
And his mother stood on the outskirts of the crowd listening with delight , for her son's deeds were pleasant in her ears , until the princess caught sight of her . 
'And there is his mother , king papa ! she said . 
She is such a nice mother , and has been so kind to me ! They all parted asunder as the king made a sign to her to come forward . 
She obeyed , and he gave her his hand , but could not speak . 
'And now , king papa , the princess went on , 'I must tell you another thing . 
One night long ago Curdie drove the goblins away and brought Lootie and me safe from the mountain . 
And I promised him a kiss when we got home , but Lootie wouldn't let me give it him . 
I don't want you to scold Lootie , but I want you to tell her that a princess must do as she promises . 
'Indeed she must , my child except it be wrong , said the king . 
'There , give Curdie a kiss . 
And as he spoke he held her towards him . 
Thereupon the eyes of the king and his guests turned thitherward also . 
The next moment , through the open doorway came the princess Irene . 
The king took her on his knee , and she said in his ear 'King papa , do you hear that noise ? 'I hear nothing , said the king . 
'Listen , she said , holding up her forefinger . 
The king listened , and a great stillness fell upon the company . 
Each man , seeing that the king listened , listened also , and the harper sat with his harp between his arms , and his finger silent upon the strings . 
'I do hear a noise , said the king at length 'a noise as of distant thunder . 
It is coming nearer and nearer . 
What can it be ? They all heard it now , and each seemed ready to start to his feet as he listened . 
Yet all sat perfectly still . 
The noise came rapidly nearer . 
'What can it be ? said the king again . 
'I think it must be another storm coming over the mountain , said Sir Walter . 
I have no time to explain , for that might make it too late for some of us . 
He had faith in Curdie , and rose instantly , with Irene in his arms . 
'Every man and woman follow me , he said , and strode out into the darkness . 
But they got safe out of the gate and up the mountain , while the torrent went roaring down the road into the valley beneath . 
Then he explained what the miners had done to prevent it . 
What was then to be done ? The house appeared in danger of falling , and every moment the torrent was increasing . 
'We must set out at once , said the king . 
'But how to get at the horses ! 'Shall I see if we can manage that ? said Curdie . 
'Do , said the king . 
Curdie gathered the men at arms , and took them over the garden wall , and so to the stables . 
They found their horses in terror the water was rising fast around them , and it was quite time they were got out . 
But there was no way to get them out , except by riding them through the stream , which was now pouring from the lower windows as well as the door . 
'Look , look , Curdie ! cried Irene , the moment that , having dismounted , he led the horse up to the king . 
Curdie did look , and saw , high in the air , somewhere about the top of the king's house , a great globe of light shining like the purest silver . 
'Oh ! he cried in some consternation , 'that is your grandmother's lamp ! We must get her out . 
I will go an find her . 
The house may fall , you know . 
'My grandmother is in no danger , said Irene , smiling . 
'Here , Curdie , take the princess while I get on my horse , said the king . 
Curdie took the princess again , and both turned their eyes to the globe of light . 
The light and the pigeon vanished together . 
'Now , Curdie ! said the princess , as he lifted her to her father's arms , 'you see my grandmother knows all about it , and isn't frightened . 
I believe she could walk through that water and it wouldn't wet her a bit . 
'But , my child , said the king , 'you will be cold if you haven't Something more on . 
Run , Curdie , my boy , and fetch anything you can lay your hands on , to keep the princess warm . 
We have a long ride before us . 
Curdie was gone in a moment , and soon returned with a great rich fur , and the news that dead goblins were tossing about in the current through the house . 
They had been caught in their own snare instead of the mine they had flooded their own country , whence they were now swept up drowned . 
Irene shuddered , but the king held her close to his bosom . 
Then he turned to Sir Walter , and said 'Bring Curdie's father and mother here . 
'I wish , said the king , when they stood before him , 'to take your son with me . 
He shall enter my bodyguard at once , and wait further promotion . 
Peter and his wife , overcome , only murmured almost inaudible thanks . 
'Please , Your Majesty , he said , 'I cannot leave my father and mother . 
'That's right , Curdie ! cried the princess . 
'I wouldn't if I was you . 
The king looked at the princess and then at Curdie with a glow of satisfaction on his countenance . 
'I too think you are right , Curdie , he said , 'and I will not ask you again . 
But I shall have a chance of doing something for you some time . 
'Your Majesty has already allowed me to serve you , said Curdie . 
'But , Curdie , said his mother , 'why shouldn't you go with the king ? We can get on very well without you . 
'But I can't get on very well without you , said Curdie . 
'The king is very kind , but I could not be half the use to him that I am to you . 
Please , Your Majesty , if you wouldn't mind giving my mother a red petticoat ! I should have got her one long ago , but for the goblins . 
'As soon as we get home , said the king , 'Irene and I will search out the warmest one to be found , and send it by one of the gentlemen . 
'Yes , that we will , Curdie ! said the princess . 
'And next summer we'll come back and see you wear it , Curdie's mother , she added . 
'Shan't we , king papa ? 'Yes , my love I hope so , said the king . 
Then turning to the miners , he said 'Will you do the best you can for my servants tonight ? I hope they will be able to return to the house tomorrow . 
The miners with one voice promised their hospitality . 
CHAPTER The Last Chapter All the rest went up the mountain , and separated in groups to the homes of the miners . 
Curdie and his father and mother took Lootie with them . 
And the whole way a light , of which all but Lootie understood the origin , shone upon their path . 
But when they looked round they could see nothing of the silvery globe . 
For days and days the water continued to rush from the doors and windows of the king's house , and a few goblin bodies were swept out into the road . 
Curdie saw that something must be done . 
He spoke to his father and the rest of the miners , and they at once proceeded to make another outlet for the waters . 
They built it securely up , and then went back to their labours in the mine . 
A good many of the goblins with their creatures escaped from the inundation out upon the mountain . 
But most of them soon left that part of the country , and most of those who remained grew milder in character , and indeed became very much like the Scotch brownies . 
Their skulls became softer as well as their hearts , and their feet grew harder , and by degrees they became friendly with the inhabitants of the mountain and even with the miners . 
But the latter were merciless to any of the cobs' creatures that came in their way , until at length they all but disappeared . 
The rest of the history of The Princess and Curdie must be kept for another volume . 
