Prince Otto by Robert Louis Stevenson , edition . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
the masterpiece he was to make of 'Prince Otto' ! Well , we will not give in that we are finally beaten . 
I try to be of Braddock's mind . 
Pray you , take him in . 
there are gathered together some of the waifs of our company at Oakland a house for all its outlandish Gaelic name and distant station where you are well beloved . 
R. L. S. Skerryvore , Bournemouth . 
BOOK I PRINCE ERRANT CHAPTER I IN WHICH THE PRINCE DEPARTS ON AN ADVENTURE You shall seek in vain upon the map of Europe for the bygone state of Grunewald . 
Less fortunate than Poland , she left not a regret behind her and the very memory of her boundaries has faded . 
It was a patch of hilly country covered with thick wood . 
Many streams took their beginning in the glens of Grunewald , turning mills for the inhabitants . 
North and east the foothills of Grunewald sank with varying profile into a vast plain . 
On these sides many small states bordered with the principality , Gerolstein , an extinct grand duchy , among the number . 
That these intermarriages had in some degree mitigated the rough , manly stock of the first Grunewalds , was an opinion widely held within the borders of the principality . 
The precise year of grace in which this tale begins shall be left to the conjecture of the reader . 
At this point the borders of Grunewald descend somewhat steeply , here and there breaking into crags and this shaggy and trackless country stands in a bold contrast to the cultivated plain below . 
It was traversed at that period by two roads alone one , the imperial highway , bound to Brandenau in Gerolstein , descended the slope obliquely and by the easiest gradients . 
The other ran like a fillet across the very forehead of the hills , dipping into savage gorges , and wetted by the spray of tiny waterfalls . 
They covered their eyes , for the sun was in their faces . 
The glory of its going down was somewhat pale . 
And hard by , like an open gash , the imperial high road ran straight sun ward , an artery of travel . 
The hour , the season , and the scene , all were in delicate accordance . 
The air was full of birds of passage , steering westward and northward over Grunewald , an army of specks to the up looking eye . 
And below , the great practicable road was bound for the same quarter . 
But to the two horsemen on the knoll this spiritual ditty was unheard . 
They were , indeed , in some concern of mind , scanning every fold of the subjacent forest , and betraying both anger and dismay in their impatient gestures . 
Why , for twopence I would hunt him with the dogs ! 'Mayhap , he's gone home , said Kuno , but without conviction . 
'Home ! sneered the other . 
'I give him twelve days to get home . 
What's that ? No , nothing no , I tell you , on my word , I set more store by a good gelding or an English dog . 
That for your Otto ! 'He's not my Otto , growled Kuno . 
'Then I don't know whose he is , was the retort . 
'You would put your hand in the fire for him to morrow , said Kuno , facing round . 
'Me ! cried the huntsman . 
'I would see him hanged ! I'm a Grunewald patriot enrolled , and have my medal , too and I would help a prince ! I'm for liberty and Gondremark . 
'Well , it's all one , said Kuno . 
'If anybody said what you said , you would have his blood , and you know it . 
'You have him on the brain , retorted his companion . 
'There he goes ! he cried , the next moment . 
'In ten minutes he'll be over the border into Gerolstein , said Kuno . 
'Well , if he founders that mare , I'll never forgive him , added the other , gathering his reins . 
And as they turned down from the knoll to rejoin their comrades , the sun dipped and disappeared , and the woods fell instantly into the gravity and greyness of the early night . 
It was past eight at night before his toil was rewarded and he issued at last out of the forest on the firm white high road . 
It lay downhill before him , with a sweeping eastward trend , faintly bright between the thickets and Otto paused and gazed upon it . 
A very tall , old , white headed man came , shading a candle , at the summons . 
'You will pardon me , said Otto . 
'I am a traveller and have entirely lost my way . 
'Sir , said the old man , in a very stately , shaky manner , 'you are at the River Farm , and I am Killian Gottesheim , at your disposal . 
And I most heartily thank you , replied Otto , bowing in his turn . 
'Fritz , said the old man , turning towards the interior , 'lead round this gentleman's horse and you , sir , condescend to enter . 
Otto entered a chamber occupying the greater part of the ground floor of the building . 
It was homely , elegant , and quaint . 
'You have perhaps ridden far , sir ? he inquired . 
'I have , as you say , ridden far , replied Otto 'and , as you have seen , I was prepared to do justice to your daughters cookery . 
'Possibly , sir , from the direction of Brandenau ? continued Killian . 
'Business leads you to Mittwalden ? was the next question . 
'Mere curiosity , said Otto . 
'I have never yet visited the principality of Grunewald . 
'A pleasant state , sir , piped the old man , nodding , 'a very pleasant state , and a fine race , both pines and people . 
We reckon ourselves part Grunewalders here , lying so near the borders and the river there is all good Grunewald water , every drop of it . 
Yes , sir , a fine state . 
'Tis twenty years now since I crossed the marshes , for we grow home keepers in old age but I mind it as if it was yesterday . 
'I suppose you see nothing of the Prince ? inquired Otto . 
'No , said the young man , speaking for the first time , 'nor want to . 
'Why so ? is he so much disliked ? asked Otto . 
'Not what you might call disliked , replied the old gentleman , 'but despised , sir . 
'Indeed , said the Prince , somewhat faintly . 
'Yes , sir , despised , nodded Killian , filling a long pipe , 'and , to my way of thinking , justly despised . 
'Yet these are all innocent , said Otto . 
'What would you have him do make war ? 'No , sir , replied the old man . 
So it is , if a man works hearty in the order of nature , he gets bread and he receives comfort , and whatever he touches breeds . 
'I believe with you , sir , Otto said 'and yet the parallel is inexact . 
For the farmer's life is natural and simple but the prince's is both artificial and complicated . 
It is easy to do right in the one , and exceedingly difficult not to do wrong in the other . 
And perhaps , if all the kings in Europe were to confine themselves to innocent amusement , the subjects would be the better off . 
'Ay , said the young man Fritz , 'you are in the right of it there . 
That was a true word spoken . 
And I see you are like me , a good patriot and an enemy to princes . 
Otto was somewhat abashed at this deduction , and he made haste to change his ground . 
'But , said he , 'you surprise me by what you say of this Prince Otto . 
I have heard him , I must own , more favourably painted . 
I was told he was , in his heart , a good fellow , and the enemy of no one but himself . 
'And so he is , sir , said the girl , 'a very handsome , pleasant prince and we know some who would shed their blood for him . 
'O ! Kuno ! said Fritz . 
'An ignoramus ! 'Ay , Kuno , to be sure , quavered the old farmer . 
'Well , since this gentleman is a stranger to these parts , and curious about the Prince , I do believe that story might divert him . 
This Kuno , you must know , sir , is one of the hunt servants , and a most ignorant , intemperate man a right Grunewalder , as we say in Gerolstein . 
'Ay , said Otto , 'it has been a long peace a peace of centuries . 
'Centuries , as you say , returned Killian 'the more the pity that it should not be for ever . 
'He broke his bridle arm , cried Fritz 'and some say his nose . 
Serve him right , say I ! Man to man , which is the better at that ? 'And then ? asked Otto . 
'O , then Kuno carried him home and they were the best of friends from that day forth . 
I don't say it's a discreditable story , you observe , continued Mr. Gottesheim 'but it's droll , and that's the fact . 
A man should think before he strikes for , as my nephew says , man to man was the old valuation . 
'Now , if you were to ask me , said Otto , 'I should perhaps surprise you . 
I think it was the Prince that conquered . 
'And , sir , you would be right , replied Killian seriously . 
'In the eyes of God , I do not question but you would be right but men , sir , look at these things differently , and they laugh . 
'They made a song of it , observed Fritz . 
'How does it go ? Ta tum ta ra . 
'Well , interrupted Otto , who had no great anxiety to hear the song , 'the Prince is young he may yet mend . 
'Not so young , by your leave , cried Fritz . 
'Thirty six , corrected Mr. Gottesheim . 
Otto passed his hand among his locks . 
At that moment he was far from happy , and even the tedious evenings at Mittwalden Palace began to smile upon him by comparison . 
'O , six and thirty ! he protested . 
'A man is not yet old at six and thirty . 
I am that age myself . 
'I should have taken you for more , sir , piped the old farmer . 
'Ah , well , the Prince is married , cried Fritz , with a coarse burst of laughter . 
'That seems to entertain you , sir , said Otto . 
'Ay , said the young boor . 
'Did you not know that ? I thought all Europe knew it ! And he added a pantomime of a nature to explain his accusation to the dullest . 
They live , sir , in idleness and what most commonly follows it corruption . 
The Princess has a lover a Baron , as he calls himself , from East Prussia and the Prince is so little of a man , sir , that he holds the candle . 
There will follow upon this some manifest judgment which , though I am old , I may survive to see . 
As for the Prince , if he would take and strangle his wife , I would forgive him yet . 
'Nay , Fritz , said the old man , 'that would be to add iniquity to evil . 
For you perceive , sir , he continued , once more addressing himself to the unfortunate Prince , 'this Otto has himself to thank for these disorders . 
He has his young wife and his principality , and he has sworn to cherish both . 
'Sworn at the altar ! echoed Fritz . 
'So they say , sir those that watch their ongoings , say to war , asseverated Killian . 
He takes the money and leaves the work why , then plainly he's a thief . 
A cuckold he was before , and a fool by birth . 
Better me that ! cried Fritz , and snapped his fingers . 
'And now , sir , you will see a little , continued the farmer , 'why we think so poorly of this Prince Otto . 
I would we had his like in Gerolstein . 
'He is a bad man , said the old farmer , shaking his head 'and there was never good begun by the breach of God's commandments . 
But so far I will go with you he is a man that works for what he has . 
'I tell you he's the hope of Grunewald , cried Fritz . 
'He doesn't suit some of your high and dry , old , ancient ideas but he's a downright modern man a man of the new lights and the progress of the age . 
I've heard them say it in a speech . 
I was at a meeting once at Brandenau , and the Mittwalden delegates spoke up for fifteen thousand . 
Fifteen thousand , all brigaded , and each man with a medal round his neck to rally by . 
'Ay , sir , you see what it leads to wild talk to day , and wilder doings to morrow , said the old man . 
'For there is one thing certain that this Gondremark has one foot in the Court backstairs , and the other in the Masons' lodges . 
He gives himself out , sir , for what nowadays they call a patriot a man from East Prussia ! 'Give himself out ! cried Fritz . 
'He is ! He is to lay by his title as soon as the Republic is declared I heard it in a speech . 
'Lay by Baron to take up President ? returned Killian . 
'King Log , King Stork . 
But you'll live longer than I , and you will see the fruits of it . 
'Father , whispered Ottilia , pulling at the speaker's coat , 'surely the gentleman is ill . 
'I beg your pardon , cried the farmer , rewaking to hospitable thoughts 'can I offer you anything ? 'I thank you . 
I am very weary , answered Otto . 
'I have presumed upon my strength . 
If you would show me to a bed , I should be grateful . 
'Ottilia , a candle ! said the old man . 
'Indeed , sir , you look paley . 
A little cordial water ? No ? Then follow me , I beseech you , and I will bring you to the stranger's bed . 
See , sir , and here he opened a door and ushered Otto into a little white washed sleeping room , 'here you are in port . 
It is small , but it is airy , and the sheets are clean and kept in lavender . 
The window , too , looks out above the river , and there's no music like a little river's . 
over and over again , and yet does not weary of it like men fiddlers . 
It takes the mind out of doors and though we should be grateful for good houses , there is , after all , no house like God's out of doors . 
And lastly , sir , it quiets a man down like saying his prayers . 
So here , sir , I take my kind leave of you until to morrow and it is my prayerful wish that you may slumber like a prince . 
And the old man , with the twentieth courteous inclination , left his guest alone . 
A trellised path led down into the valley of the brook , and he turned to follow it . 
The stream was a break neck , boiling Highland river . 
Hard by the farm , it leaped a little precipice in a thick grey mare's tail of twisted filaments , and then lay and worked and bubbled in a lynn . 
Into the middle of this quaking pool a rock protruded , shelving to a cape and thither Otto scrambled and sat down to ponder . 
Otto , who was weary with tossing and beset with horrid phantoms of remorse and jealousy , instantly fell dead in love with that sun chequered , echoing corner . 
Holding his feet , he stared out of a drowsy trance , wondering , admiring , musing , losing his way among uncertain thoughts . 
There is nothing that so apes the external bearing of free will as that unconscious bustle , obscurely following liquid laws , with which a river contends among obstructions . 
It seems the very play of man and destiny , and as Otto pored on these recurrent changes , he grew , by equal steps , the sleepier and the more profound . 
Eddy and Prince were alike jostled in their purpose , alike anchored by intangible influences in one corner of the world . 
Eddy and Prince were alike useless , starkly useless , in the cosmology of men . 
Eddy and Prince Prince and Eddy . 
It is probable he had been some while asleep when a voice recalled him from oblivion . 
'Sir , it was saying and looking round , he saw Mr. Killian's daughter , terrified by her boldness and making bashful signals from the shore . 
She was a plain , honest lass , healthy and happy and good , and with that sort of beauty that comes of happiness and health . 
But her confusion lent her for the moment an additional charm . 
'Good morning , said Otto , rising and moving towards her . 
'I arose early and was in a dream . 
'My dear , said Otto , both amused and gratified , 'you do not understand . 
It is I who am in the wrong for I had no business to conceal my name and lead on these gentleman to speak of me . 
And it is I who have to beg of you that you will keep my secret and not betray the discourtesy of which I was guilty . 
As for any fear of me , your friends are safe in Gerolstein and even in my own territory , you must be well aware I have no power . 
O , sir , she said , curtsying , 'I would not say that the huntsmen would all die for you . 
'Happy Prince ! said Otto . 
'But although you are too courteous to avow the knowledge , you have had many opportunities of learning that I am a vain show . 
Only last night we heard it very clearly stated . 
You see the shadow flitting on this hard rock ? Prince Otto , I am afraid , is but the moving shadow , and the name of the rock is Gondremark . 
Ah ! if your friends had fallen foul of Gondremark ! But happily the younger of the two admires him . 
And as for the old gentleman your father , he is a wise man and an excellent talker , and I would take a long wager he is honest . 
'O , for honest , your Highness , that he is ! exclaimed the girl . 
'And Fritz is as honest as he . 
And as for all they said , it was just talk and nonsense . 
When countryfolk get gossiping , they go on , I do assure you , for the fun they don't as much as think of what they say . 
If you went to the next farm , it's my belief you would hear as much against my father . 
'Nay , nay , said Otto , 'there you go too fast . 
For all that was said against Prince Otto 'O , it was shameful ! cried the girl . 
'Not shameful true , returned Otto . 
I am all they said of me all that and worse . 
'I never ! cried 'Ottilia . 
'Is that how you do ? Well , you would never be a soldier . 
Now if any one accuses me , I get up and give it them . 
O , I defend myself . 
I wouldn't take a fault at another person's hands , no , not if I had it on my forehead . 
And that's what you must do , if you mean to live it out . 
But , indeed , I never heard such nonsense . 
I should think you was ashamed of yourself ! You're bald , then , I suppose ? 'O no , said Otto , fairly laughing . 
'There I acquit myself not bald ! 'Well , and good ? pursued the girl . 
'Come now , you know you are good , and I'll make you say so . 
Your Highness , I beg your humble pardon . 
But there's no disrespect intended . 
And anyhow , you know you are . 
'Why , now , what am I to say ? replied Otto . 
'You are a cook , and excellently well you do it I embrace the chance of thanking you for the ragout . 
Well now , have you not seen good food so bedevilled by unskilful cookery that no one could be brought to eat the pudding ? That is me , my dear . 
I am full of good ingredients , but the dish is worthless . 
I am I give it you in one word sugar in the salad . 
'Well , I don't care , you're good , reiterated Ottilia , a little flushed by having failed to understand . 
And , O Lord , I declare I hope your Highness will forgive me , the girl added . 
'I can't keep it in my mind . 
'No more can I , cried Otto . 
'That is just what they complain of ! They made a loverly looking couple only the heavy pouring of that horse tail of water made them raise their voices above lovers' pitch . 
But to a jealous onlooker from above , their mirth and close proximity might easily give umbrage and a rough voice out of a tuft of brambles began calling on Ottilia by name . 
She changed colour at that . 
'It is Fritz , she said . 
Otto returned to his rock promontory but his humour had in the meantime changed . 
The sun now shone more fairly on the pool and over its brown , welling surface , the blue of heaven and the golden green of the spring foliage danced in fleeting arabesque . 
The eddies laughed and brightened with essential colour . 
And the beauty of the dell began to rankle in the Prince's mind it was so near to his own borders , yet without . 
'I hope , sir , that you have slept well under my plain roof , said the old farmer . 
'I am admiring this sweet spot that you are privileged to dwell in , replied Otto , evading the inquiry . 
You should see my wheat in the ten acre field . 
There is not a farm in Grunewald , no , nor many in Gerolstein , to match the River Farm . 
'And the stream has fish ? asked Otto . 
'A fishpond , said the farmer . 
'Ay , it is a pleasant bit . 
Thirty to forty is , as one may say , their seed time . 
And this is a damp cold corner for the early morning and an empty stomach . 
If I might humbly advise you , sir , I would be moving . 
'With all my heart , said Otto gravely . 
'And so you have lived your life here ? he added , as they turned to go . 
'Here I was born , replied the farmer , 'and here I wish I could say I was to die . 
But fortune , sir , fortune turns the wheel . 
They say she is blind , but we will hope she only sees a little farther on . 
My grandfather and my father and I , we have all tilled these acres , my furrow following theirs . 
All the three names are on the garden bench , two Killians and one Johann . 
Yes , sir , good men have prepared themselves for the great change in my old garden . 
Well do I mind my father , in a woollen night cap , the good soul , going round and round to see the last of it . 
'Killian , said he , 'do you see the smoke of my tobacco ? Why , said he , 'that is man's life . 
But here we have no continuing city and as for the eternal , it's a comfortable thought that we have other merits than our own . 
And yet you would hardly think how sore it goes against the grain with me , to die in a strange bed . 
'And must you do so ? For what reason ? Otto asked . 
'The reason ? The place is to be sold three thousand crowns , replied Mr. Gottesheim . 
'Had it been a third of that , I may say without boasting that , what with my credit and my savings , I could have met the sum . 
But at three thousand , unless I have singular good fortune and the new proprietor continues me in office , there is nothing left me but to budge . 
Otto's fancy for the place redoubled at the news , and became joined with other feelings . 
Every man loves in his soul to play the part of the stage deity . 
And to step down to the aid of the old farmer , who had so roughly handled him in talk , was the ideal of a Fair Revenge . 
Otto's thoughts brightened at the prospect , and he began to regard himself with a renewed respect . 
'I can find you , I believe , a purchaser , he said , 'and one who would continue to avail himself of your skill . 
'Can you , sir , indeed ? said the old man . 
'If you will have the papers drawn , you may even burthen the purchase with your interest , said Otto . 
'Let it be assured to you through life . 
'Your friend , sir , insinuated Killian , 'would not , perhaps , care to make the interest reversible ? Fritz is a good lad . 
'Fritz is young , said the Prince dryly 'he must earn consideration , not inherit . 
It would be a care spared to assure yourself of Fritz . 
And I believe he might be tempted by a permanency . 
'The young man has unsettled views , returned Otto . 
'Possibly the purchaser began Killian . 
A little spot of anger burned in Otto's cheek . 
'I am the purchaser , he said . 
'It was what I might have guessed , replied the farmer , bowing with an aged , obsequious dignity . 
'You have made an old man very happy and I may say , indeed , that I have entertained an angel unawares . 
'We all have our frailties . 
'Truly , sir , said Mr. Gottesheim , with unction . 
'Transome , he answered , 'is my name . 
I am an English traveller . 
It is , to day , Tuesday . 
On Thursday , before noon , the money shall be ready . 
Let us meet , if you please , in Mittwalden , at the Morning Star . 
'I am , in all things lawful , your servant to command , replied the farmer . 
'An Englishman ! You are a great race of travellers . 
And has your lordship some experience of land ? 'I have had some interest of the kind before , returned the Prince 'not in Gerolstein , indeed . 
But fortune , as you say , turns the wheel , and I desire to be beforehand with her revolutions . 
'Very right , sir , I am sure , said Mr. Killian . 
They had been strolling with deliberation but they were now drawing near to the farmhouse , mounting by the trellised pathway to the level of the meadow . 
A little before them , the sound of voices had been some while audible , and now grew louder and more distinct with every step of their advance . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Gottesheim , and made as if he would turn aside . 
But Otto went straight towards the lovers , in whose dissension he believed himself to have a share . 
And , indeed , as soon as he had seen the Prince , Fritz had stood tragic , as if awaiting and defying his approach . 
'O , here you are ! he cried , as soon as they were near enough for easy speech . 
'You are a man at least , and must reply . 
'We keep company , she and I. I love her , and she is by way of loving me but all shall be above board , I would have her to know . 
I have a good pride of my own . 
'Why , I perceive I must explain to you what love is , said Otto . 
It is very possible that you are proud but she , too , may have some self esteem I do not speak for myself . 
And perhaps , if your own doings were so curiously examined , you might find it inconvenient to reply . 
'These are all set offs , said the young man . 
'You know very well that a man is a man , and a woman only a woman . 
That holds good all over , up and down . 
I ask you a question , I ask it again , and here I stand . 
He drew a mark and toed it . 
'When you have studied liberal doctrines somewhat deeper , said the Prince , 'you will perhaps change your note . 
You are a man of false weights and measures , my young friend . 
You have one scale for women , another for men one for princes , and one for farmer folk . 
On the prince who neglects his wife you can be most severe . 
But what of the lover who insults his mistress ? You use the name of love . 
I should think this lady might very fairly ask to be delivered from love of such a nature . 
For if I , a stranger , had been one tenth part so gross and so discourteous , you would most righteously have broke my head . 
It would have been in your part , as lover , to protect her from such insolence . 
Protect her first , then , from yourself . 
'Ay , quoth Mr. Gottesheim , who had been looking on with his hands behind his tall old back , 'ay , that's Scripture truth . 
Fritz was staggered , not only by the Prince's imperturbable superiority of manner , but by a glimmering consciousness that he himself was in the wrong . 
The appeal to liberal doctrines had , besides , unmanned him . 
'Well , said he , 'if I was rude , I'll own to it . 
I meant no ill , and did nothing out of my just rights but I am above all these old vulgar notions too and if I spoke sharp , I'll ask her pardon . 
'Freely granted , Fritz , said Ottilia . 
'But all this doesn't answer me , cried Fritz . 
'I ask what you two spoke about . 
She says she promised not to tell well , then , I mean to know . 
Civility is civility , but I'll be no man's gull . 
I have , since I arose this morning , agreed to buy the farm . 
So far I will go to satisfy a curiosity which I condemn . 
'O , well , if there was business , that's another matter , returned Fritz . 
'Though it beats me why you could not tell . 
But , of course , if the gentleman is to buy the farm , I suppose there would naturally be an end . 
'To be sure , said Mr. Gottesheim , with a strong accent of conviction . 
But Ottilia was much braver . 
'There now ! she cried in triumph . 
'What did I tell you ? I told you I was fighting your battles . 
Now you see ! Think shame of your suspicious temper ! You should go down upon your bended knees both to that gentleman and me . 
CHAPTER IV IN WHICH THE PRINCE COLLECTS OPINIONS BY THE WAY A LITTLE before noon Otto , by a triumph of manoeuvring , effected his escape . 
He was quit in this way of the ponderous gratitude of Mr. Killian , and of the confidential gratitude of poor Ottilia but of Fritz he was not quit so readily . 
'Are you not , he asked , 'what they call a socialist ? 'Why , no , returned Otto , 'not precisely what they call so . 
Why do you ask ? 'I will tell you why , said the young man . 
'I saw from the first that you were a red progressional , and nothing but the fear of old Killian kept you back . 
And there , sir , you were right old men are always cowards . 
'Indeed , cried Otto , 'I never said a word of such a thing . 
'Not you ! cried Fritz . 
'Never a word to compromise ! You was sowing seed ground bait , our president calls it . 
O yes , I am a secret society man , and here is my medal . 
'And so now you see you may trust me , added Fritz , 'I am none of your alehouse talkers I am a convinced revolutionary . 
And he looked meltingly upon Otto . 
'I see , replied the Prince 'that is very gratifying . 
Well , sir , the great thing for the good of one's country is , first of all , to be a good man . 
For my part , although you are right in thinking that I have to do with politics , I am unfit by intellect and temper for a leading role . 
I was intended , I fear , for a subaltern . 
Yet we have all something to command , Mr. Fritz , if it be only our own temper and a man about to marry must look closely to himself . 
The husband's , like the prince's , is a very artificial standing and it is hard to be kind in either . 
'You must not be too zealous . 
And in the meantime , if I were you , I would say nothing on the subject . 
'O , trust me , sir , for that , cried Fritz , as he pocketed a crown . 
'And you've let nothing out for I suspected I might say I knew it from the first . 
And mind you , when a guide is required , he added , 'I know all the forest paths . 
Otto rode away , chuckling . 
And , to harmonise all , the road and the April air were both delightful to his soul . 
Up and down , and to and fro , ever mounting through the wooded foothills , the broad white high road wound onward into Grunewald . 
The road lay all the way apart from towns and villages , which it left on either hand . 
But the highway was an international undertaking and with its face set for distant cities , scorned the little life of Grunewald . 
Hence it was exceeding solitary . 
Near the frontier Otto met a detachment of his own troops marching in the hot dust and he was recognised and somewhat feebly cheered as he rode by . 
But from that time forth and for a long while he was alone with the great woods . 
He looked east and west for any comforter and presently he was aware of a cross road coming steeply down hill , and a horseman cautiously descending . 
A human voice or presence , like a spring in the desert , was now welcome in itself , and Otto drew bridle to await the coming of this stranger . 
At the same time he gave a beery yaw in the saddle . 
It was clear his bottle was no longer full . 
'Do you ride towards Mittwalden ? asked the Prince . 
'As far as the cross road to Tannenbrunn , the man replied . 
'Will you bear company ? 'With pleasure . 
I have even waited for you on the chance , answered Otto . 
By this time they were close alongside and the man , with the countryfolk instinct , turned his cloudy vision first of all on his companion's mount . 
'The devil ! he cried . 
'You ride a bonny mare , friend ! And then , his curiosity being satisfied about the essential , he turned his attention to that merely secondary matter , his companion's face . 
'The Prince ! he cried , saluting , with another yaw that came near dismounting him . 
'I beg your pardon , your Highness , not to have recognised you at once . 
The Prince was vexed out of his self possession . 
'Since you know me , he said , 'it is unnecessary we should ride together . 
I will precede you , if you please . 
And he was about to set spur to the grey mare , when the half drunken fellow , reaching over , laid his hand upon the rein . 
'Hark you , he said , 'prince or no prince , that is not how one man should conduct himself with another . 
What ! You'll ride with me incog . 
A horrid confusion came over Otto . 
He perceived that he had acted rudely , grossly presuming on his station . 
And perhaps a little shiver of physical alarm mingled with his remorse , for the fellow was very powerful and not more than half in the possession of his senses . 
'You think I would lie , do you ? cried the man with the bottle , purpling deeper . 
'I know you would , returned Otto , entering entirely into his self possession . 
'You would not even show me the medal you wear about your neck . 
For he had caught a glimpse of a green ribbon at the fellow's throat . 
The change was instantaneous the red face became mottled with yellow a thick fingered , tottering hand made a clutch at the tell tale ribbon . 
'Medal ! the man cried , wonderfully sobered . 
'Pardon me , said the Prince . 
'I will even tell you what that medal bears a Phoenix burning , with the word LIBERTAS . 
The medallist remaining speechless , 'You are a pretty fellow , continued Otto , smiling , 'to complain of incivility from the man whom you conspire to murder . 
'Murder ! protested the man . 
'Nay , never that nothing criminal for me ! 'You are strangely misinformed , said Otto . 
'Conspiracy itself is criminal , and ensures the pain of death . 
Nay , sir , death it is I will guarantee my accuracy . 
Not that you need be so deplorably affected , for I am no officer . 
But those who mingle with politics should look at both sides of the medal . 
began the knight of the bottle . 
'Nonsense ! you are a Republican , cried Otto 'what have you to do with highnesses ? But let us continue to ride forward . 
Since you so much desire it , I cannot find it in my heart to deprive you of my company . 
And for that matter , I have a question to address to you . 
Come , then show me your majority , and I will instantly resign . 
I am one of the worst princes in Europe will they improve on that ? 'Far be it from me . 
'See , now , if you will not defend my government ! cried Otto . 
'If I were you , I would leave conspiracies . 
You are as little fit to be a conspirator as I to be a king . 
'One thing I will say out , said the man . 
'It is not so much you that we complain of , it's your lady . 
A morning drunkard is the last man to sit in judgment even upon the worst of princes . 
'I have had a drop , but I had not been drinking , the man replied , triumphing in a sound distinction . 
'And if I had , what then ? Nobody hangs by me . 
But my mill is standing idle , and I blame it on your wife . 
Am I alone in that ? Go round and ask . 
Where are the mills ? Where are the young men that should be working ? Where is the currency ? All paralysed . 
No , sir , it is not equal for I suffer for your faults I pay for them , by George , out of a poor man's pocket . 
And what have you to do with mine ? Drunk or sober , I can see my country going to hell , and I can see whose fault it is . 
And the miller reined up and , clumsily enough , saluted . 
'You will observe , I have not asked your name , said Otto . 
'I wish you a good ride , and he rode on hard . 
But let him ride as he pleased , this interview with the miller was a chokepear , which he could not swallow . 
He had begun by receiving a reproof in manners , and ended by sustaining a defeat in logic , both from a man whom he despised . 
All his old thoughts returned with fresher venom . 
And by three in the afternoon , coming to the cross roads for Beckstein , Otto decided to turn aside and dine there leisurely . 
Nothing at least could be worse than to go on as he was going . 
In the inn at Beckstein he remarked , immediately upon his entrance , an intelligent young gentleman dining , with a book in front of him . 
He had his own place laid close to the reader , and with a proper apology , broke ground by asking what he read . 
'I am acquainted , said Otto , 'with the Herr Doctor , though not yet with his work . 
'Two privileges that I must envy you , replied the young man politely 'an honour in hand , a pleasure in the bush . 
'The Herr Doctor is a man much respected , I believe , for his attainments ? asked the Prince . 
'He is , sir , a remarkable instance of the force of intellect , replied the reader . 
'I have the gratification of addressing a student perhaps an author ? Otto suggested . 
The young man somewhat flushed . 
'I have some claim to both distinctions , sir , as you suppose , said he 'there is my card . 
I am the licentiate Roederer , author of several works on the theory and practice of politics . 
'You immensely interest me , said the Prince 'the more so as I gather that here in Grunewald we are on the brink of revolution . 
I am a convinced authoritarian . 
I share none of those illusory , Utopian fancies with which empirics blind themselves and exasperate the ignorant . 
The day of these ideas is , believe me , past , or at least passing . 
'When I look about me began Otto . 
'When you look about you , interrupted the licentiate , 'you behold the ignorant . 
But in the laboratory of opinion , beside the studious lamp , we begin already to discard these figments . 
We begin to return to nature's order , to what I might call , if I were to borrow from the language of therapeutics , the expectant treatment of abuses . 
But I would look for a remedy not to brute convulsions , but to the natural supervenience of a more able sovereign . 
I should amuse you , perhaps , added the licentiate , with a smile , 'I think I should amuse you if I were to explain my notion of a prince . 
We who have studied in the closet , no longer , in this age , propose ourselves for active service . 
The paths , we have perceived , are incompatible . 
I would not have a student on the throne , though I would have one near by for an adviser . 
I have been observing you since your first entrance . 
Well , sir , were I a subject of Grunewald I should pray heaven to set upon the seat of government just such another as yourself . 
'The devil you would ! exclaimed the Prince . 
The licentiate Roederer laughed most heartily . 
'I thought I should astonish you , he said . 
'These are not the ideas of the masses . 
'They are not , I can assure you , Otto said . 
'Or rather , distinguished the licentiate , 'not to day . 
The time will come , however , when these ideas shall prevail . 
'You will permit me , sir , to doubt it , said Otto . 
'Modesty is always admirable , chuckled the theorist . 
At this rate the hours sped pleasantly for Otto . 
But the licentiate unfortunately slept that night at Beckstein , where he was , being dainty in the saddle and given to half stages . 
The night had already fallen when they took the saddle . 
Otto thus combined society and solitude , hearkening now to their chattering and empty talk , now to the voices of the encircling forest . 
The starlit dark , the faint wood airs , the clank of the horse shoes making broken music , accorded together and attuned his mind . 
And he was still in a most equal temper when the party reached the top of that long hill that overlooks Mittwalden . 
Although he knew not Otto , one of the wood merchants was a native of the state . 
'There , said he , pointing to the palace with his whip , 'there is Jezebel's inn . 
'What , do you call it that ? cried another , laughing . 
Her Serene Highness Amalia Seraphina , Princess of Grunewald , was the heroine , Gondremark the hero of this ballad . 
Shame hissed in Otto's ears . 
He reined up short and sat stunned in the saddle and the singers continued to descend the hill without him . 
Hard by him on his right a road struck towards the palace , and he followed it through the thick shadows and branching alleys of the park . 
Ten minutes brought him to the upper end of his own home garden , where the small stables opened , over a bridge , upon the park . 
The yard clock was striking the hour of ten so was the big bell in the palace bell tower and , farther off , the belfries of the town . 
About the stable all else was silent but the stamping of stalled horses and the rattle of halters . 
He crossed the bridge , and , going up to a window , knocked six or seven heavy blows in a particular cadence , and , as he did so , smiled . 
Presently a wicket was opened in the gate , and a man's head appeared in the dim starlight . 
'Nothing to night , said a voice . 
'Bring a lantern , said the Prince . 
'Dear heart a' mercy ! cried the groom . 
'Who's that ? 'It is I , the Prince , replied Otto . 
'Bring a lantern , take in the mare , and let me through into the garden . 
The man remained silent for a while , his head still projecting through the wicket . 
'His Highness ! he said at last . 
'And why did your Highness knock so strange ? 'It is a superstition in Mittwalden , answered Otto , 'that it cheapens corn . 
With a sound like a sob the groom fled . 
He was very white when he returned , even by the light of the lantern and his hand trembled as he undid the fastenings and took the mare . 
'Your Highness , he began at last , 'for God's sake . 
And there he paused , oppressed with guilt . 
'For God's sake , what ? asked Otto cheerfully . 
'For God's sake let us have cheaper corn , say I. Good night ! And he strode off into the garden , leaving the groom petrified once more . 
The garden descended by a succession of stone terraces to the level of the fish pond . 
On the far side the ground rose again , and was crowned by the confused roofs and gables of the palace . 
The modern pillared front , the ball room , the great library , the princely apartments , the busy and illuminated quarters of that great house , all faced the town . 
The garden side was much older and here it was almost dark only a few windows quietly lighted at various elevations . 
The great square tower rose , thinning by stages like a telescope and on the top of all the flag hung motionless . 
The garden , as it now lay in the dusk and glimmer of the starshine , breathed of April violets . 
Under night's cavern arch the shrubs obscurely bustled . 
Through the plotted terraces and down the marble stairs the Prince rapidly descended , fleeing before uncomfortable thoughts . 
But , alas ! from these there is no city of refuge . 
And now , when he was about midway of the descent , distant strains of music began to fall upon his ear from the ball room , where the court was dancing . 
They reached him faint and broken , but they touched the keys of memory and through and above them Otto heard the ranting melody of the wood merchants' song . 
Mere blackness seized upon his mind . 
Such a prince , such a husband , such a man , as this Otto had become ! And he sped the faster onward . 
The parade of watch was more than usual but curiosity was dead in Otto's mind , and he only chafed at the interruption . 
The porter of the back postern admitted him , and started to behold him so disordered . 
Thence , hasting by private stairs and passages , he came at length unseen to his own chamber , tore off his clothes , and threw himself upon his bed in the dark . 
The music of the ball room still continued to a very lively measure and still , behind that , he heard in spirit the chorus of the merchants clanking down the hill . 
He was a man of about forty , flaxen haired , with refined features a little worn , and bright eyes somewhat faded . 
Early to bed and early to rise , his life was devoted to two things erudition and Rhine wine . 
An ancient friendship existed latent between him and Otto they rarely met , but when they did it was to take up at once the thread of their suspended intimacy . 
Gotthold , the virgin priest of knowledge , had envied his cousin , for half a day , when he was married he had never envied him his throne . 
Reading was not a popular diversion at the court of Grunewald and that great , pleasant , sunshiny gallery of books and statues was , in practice , Gotthold's private cabinet . 
On this particular Wednesday morning , however , he had not been long about his manuscript when a door opened and the Prince stepped into the apartment . 
'Good morning , Gotthold , said Otto , dropping in a chair . 
'Good morning , Otto , returned the librarian . 
'You are an early bird . 
Is this an accident , or do you begin reforming ? 'It is about time , I fancy , answered the Prince . 
'I cannot imagine , said the Doctor . 
'I am too sceptical to be an ethical adviser and as for good resolutions , I believed in them when I was young . 
They are the colours of hope's rainbow . 
'If you come to think of it , said Otto , 'I am not a popular sovereign . 
And with a look he changed his statement to a question . 
'Popular ? Well , there I would distinguish , answered Gotthold , leaning back and joining the tips of his fingers . 
As a prince well , you are in the wrong trade . 
It is perhaps philosophical to recognise it as you do . 
'Perhaps philosophical ? repeated Otto . 
I would not be dogmatic , answered Gotthold . 
'Perhaps philosophical , and certainly not virtuous , Otto resumed . 
'Not of a Roman virtue , chuckled the recluse . 
Otto drew his chair nearer to the table , leaned upon it with his elbow , and looked his cousin squarely in the face . 
'In short , he asked , 'not manly ? 'Well , Gotthold hesitated , 'not manly , if you will . 
And then , with a laugh , 'I did not know that you gave yourself out to be manly , he added . 
'It was one of the points that I inclined to like about you inclined , I believe , to admire . 
Without compromise you were yourself a pretty sight . 
I have always said it none so void of all pretence as Otto . 
'Pretence and effort both ! cried Otto . 
'A dead dog in a canal is more alive . 
And besides , dear child , you would not try . 
'Nay , Gotthold , I am not to be put by , said Otto . 
'Well , can I not try ? continued Otto . 
'Am I not bound to try ? And with the advice and help of such a man as you 'Me ! cried the librarian . 
'Now , God forbid ! Otto , though he was in no very smiling humour , could not forbear to smile . 
'Roederer ! an ignorant puppy ! cried the librarian . 
'You are ungrateful , said Otto . 
'He is one of your professed admirers . 
'Is he ? cried Gotthold , obviously impressed . 
'Come , that is a good account of the young man . 
I must read his stuff again . 
It is the rather to his credit , as our views are opposite . 
The east and west are not more opposite . 
Can I have converted him ? But no the incident belongs to Fairyland . 
'You are not then , asked the Prince , 'an authoritarian ? 'I ? God bless me , no ! said Gotthold . 
'I am a red , dear child . 
'That brings me then to my next point , and by a natural transition . 
'Ay , said Gotthold , 'or else stay where he is . 
That way , I tell you , madness lies . 
The speaker rose from his chair and then sat down again . 
It is because you could , that I have always secretly admired you . 
Cling to that trade believe me , it is the right one . 
Be happy , be idle , be airy . 
To the devil with all casuistry ! and leave the state to Gondremark , as heretofore . 
He does it well enough , they say and his vanity enjoys the situation . 
'Gotthold , cried Otto , 'what is this to me ? Useless is not the question I cannot rest at uselessness I must be useful or I must be noxious one or other . 
'I did , said Otto sombrely , 'but now I do not . 
And then , Gotthold , there is Seraphina . 
She is loathed in this country that I brought her to and suffered her to spoil . 
'And by whom ? By this Gondremark , to whom you counsel me to leave my country , cried the Prince . 
'Rare advice ! The course that I have been following all these years , to come at last to this . 
'Well , come , you are not very cheering as to my conduct as the Prince have I even done my duty as a husband ? Otto asked . 
'Nay , nay , said Gotthold , earnestly and eagerly , 'this is another chapter . 
I am an old celibate , an old monk . 
I cannot advise you in your marriage . 
'Nor do I require advice , said Otto , rising . 
'All of this must cease . 
And he began to walk to and fro with his hands behind his back . 
'Well , Otto , may God guide you ! said Gotthold , after a considerable silence . 
'From what does all this spring ? said the Prince , stopping in his walk . 
I have a sense of humour , forsooth ! I must know better than my Maker . 
And it was the same thing in my marriage , he added more hoarsely . 
'I did not believe this girl could care for me I must not intrude I must preserve the foppery of my indifference . 
What an impotent picture ! 'Ay , we have the same blood , moralised Gotthold . 
'You are drawing , with fine strokes , the character of the born sceptic . 
'Sceptic ? coward ! cried Otto . 
But at the smallest contrariety , his trembling hands and disconnected gestures betrayed the weakness at the root . 
'O ! he gasped , recovering , 'Your Highness ! I beg ten thousand pardons . 
But your Highness at such an hour in the library ! a circumstance so unusual as your Highness's presence was a thing I could not be expected to foresee . 
'There is no harm done , Herr Cancellarius , said Otto . 
'I came upon the errand of a moment some papers I left over night with the Herr Doctor , said the Chancellor of Grunewald . 
'Herr Doctor , if you will kindly give me them , I will intrude no longer . 
Gotthold unlocked a drawer and handed a bundle of manuscript to the old gentleman , who prepared , with fitting salutations , to take his departure . 
'Herr Greisengesang , since we have met , said Otto , 'let us talk . 
'I am honoured by his Highness's commands , replied the Chancellor . 
'All has been quiet since I left ? asked the Prince , resuming his seat . 
'The usual business , your Highness , answered Greisengesang 'punctual trifles huge , indeed , if neglected , but trifles when discharged . 
Your Highness is most zealously obeyed . 
'Obeyed , Herr Cancellarius ? returned the Prince . 
'And when have I obliged you with an order ? Replaced , let us rather say . 
But to touch upon these trifles instance me a few . 
'The routine of government , from which your Highness has so wisely dissociated his leisure . 
'We will leave my leisure , sir , said Otto . 
'The routine of business was proceeded with , replied the official , now visibly twittering . 
'It is very strange , Herr Cancellarius , that you should so persistently avoid my questions , said the Prince . 
'You tempt me to suppose a purpose in your dulness . 
I have asked you whether all was quiet do me the pleasure to reply . 
'Perfectly O , perfectly quiet , jerked the ancient puppet , with every signal of untruth . 
'I make a note of these words , said the Prince gravely . 
'You assure me , your sovereign , that since the date of my departure nothing has occurred of which you owe me an account . 
'I take your Highness , I take the Herr Doctor to witness , cried Greisengesang , 'that I have had no such expression . 
'Halt ! said the Prince and then , after a pause 'Herr Greisengesang , you are an old man , and you served my father before you served me , he added . 
'It consists neither with your dignity nor mine that you should babble excuses and stumble possibly upon untruths . 
Collect your thoughts and then categorically inform me of all you have been charged to hide . 
Gotthold , stooping very low over his desk , appeared to have resumed his labours but his shoulders heaved with subterranean merriment . 
The Prince waited , drawing his handkerchief quietly through his fingers . 
'I will not criticise your attitude , replied the Prince . 
I will thus dismiss the matters on which you waive immediate inquiry . 
But you have certain papers actually in your hand . 
Come , Herr Greisengesang , there is at least one point for which you have authority . 
'On that ? cried the old gentleman . 
'O , that is a trifle a matter , your Highness , of police a detail of a purely administrative order . 
These are simply a selection of the papers seized upon the English traveller . 
'In what sense ? Explain yourself . 
'Sir John Crabtree , interposed Gotthold , looking up , 'was arrested yesterday evening . 
'It this so , Herr Cancellarius ? demanded Otto sternly . 
'It was judged right , your Highness , protested Greisengesang . 
'The decree was in due form , invested with your Highness's authority by procuration . 
I am but an agent I had no status to prevent the measure . 
'This man , my guest , has been arrested , said the Prince . 
'On what grounds , sir ? With what colour of pretence ? The Chancellor stammered . 
'Your Highness will perhaps find the reason in these documents , said Gotthold , pointing with the tail of his pen . 
Otto thanked his cousin with a look . 
'Give them to me , he said , addressing the Chancellor . 
But that gentleman visibly hesitated to obey . 
'Baron von Gondremark , he said , 'has made the affair his own . 
I am in this case a mere messenger and as such , I am not clothed with any capacity to communicate the documents I carry . 
Herr Doctor , I am convinced you will not fail to bear me out . 
'I have heard a great deal of nonsense , said Gotthold , 'and most of it from you but this beats all . 
'Come , sir , said Otto , rising , 'the papers . 
Herr Greisengesang instantly gave way . 
'With your Highness's permission , he said , 'and laying at his feet my most submiss apologies , I will now hasten to attend his further orders in the Chancery . 
'Herr Cancellarius , do you see this chair ? said Otto . 
'There is where you shall attend my further orders . 
O , now , no more ! he cried , with a gesture , as the old man opened his lips . 
'You have sufficiently marked your zeal to your employer and I begin to weary of a moderation you abuse . 
The Chancellor moved to the appointed chair and took his seat in silence . 
'And now , said Otto , opening the roll , 'what is all this ? it looks like the manuscript of a book . 
'It is , said Gotthold , 'the manuscript of a book of travels . 
'You have read it , Doctor Hohenstockwitz ? asked the Prince . 
'Nay , I but saw the title page , replied Gotthold . 
'But the roll was given to me open , and I heard no word of any secrecy . 
Otto dealt the Chancellor an angry glance . 
'I see , he went on . 
'The papers of an author seized at this date of the world's history , in a state so petty and so ignorant as Grunewald , here is indeed an ignominious folly . 
Sir , to the Chancellor , 'I marvel to find you in so scurvy an employment . 
And what have we to do with books ? The Herr Doctor might perhaps be asked for his advice but we have no INDEX EXPURGATORIUS in Grunewald . 
Had we but that , we should be the most absolute parody and farce upon this tawdry earth . 
It ran thus MEMOIRS OF A VISIT TO THE VARIOUS COURTS OF EUROPE , BY SIR JOHN CRABTREE , BARONET . 
Below was a list of chapters , each bearing the name of one of the European Courts and among these the nineteenth and the last upon the list was dedicated to Grunewald . 
'Ah ! The Court of Grunewald ! said Otto , 'that should be droll reading . 
And his curiosity itched for it . 
'A methodical dog , this English Baronet , said Gotthold . 
'Each chapter written and finished on the spot . 
I shall look for his work when it appears . 
'It would be odd , now , just to glance at it , said Otto , wavering . 
Gotthold's brow darkened , and he looked out of window . 
But though the Prince understood the reproof , his weakness prevailed . 
'I will , he said , with an uneasy laugh , 'I will , I think , just glance at it . 
So saying , he resumed his seat and spread the traveller's manuscript upon the table . 
why I should have chosen Grunewald out of so many other states equally petty , formal , dull , and corrupt . 
Accident , indeed , decided , and not I but I have seen no reason to regret my visit . 
The spectacle of this small society macerating in its own abuses was not perhaps instructive , but I have found it exceedingly diverting . 
The reigning Prince , Otto Johann Friedrich , a young man of imperfect education , questionable valour , and no scintilla of capacity , has fallen into entire public contempt . 
He has a worthless smattering of many subjects , but a grasp of none . 
'I soon weary of a pursuit , he said to me , laughing it would almost appear as if he took a pride in his incapacity and lack of moral courage . 
His one manly taste is for the chase . 
In sum , he is but a plexus of weaknesses the singing chambermaid of the stage , tricked out in man's apparel , and mounted on a circus horse . 
The last Merovingians may have looked not otherwise . 
She is much younger than the Prince , a girl of two and twenty , sick with vanity , superficially clever , and fundamentally a fool . 
Her manners , her conversation , which she interlards with French , her very tastes and ambitions , are alike assumed and the assumption is ungracefully apparent Hoyden playing Cleopatra . 
I should judge her to be incapable of truth . 
On the throne , however , and in the hands of a man like Gondremark , she may become the authoress of serious public evils . 
Gondremark , the true ruler of this unfortunate country , is a more complex study . 
His position in Grunewald , to which he is a foreigner , is eminently false and that he should maintain it as he does , a very miracle of impudence and dexterity . 
His speech , his face , his policy , are all double heads and tails . 
Which of the two extremes may be his actual design he were a bold man who should offer to decide . 
Certainly at least the scheme is entertained in the court of Mittwalden nor do I myself regard it as entirely desperate . 
To any such movement my sympathies were early acquired , and I would not willingly let fall a word that might embarrass or retard the revolution . 
that his power of resistance to the Princess is limited , and at each fresh stretch of authority persuades them , with specious reasons , to postpone the hour of insurrection . 
he salved over the decree enforcing military service , under the plea that to be well drilled and exercised in arms was even a necessary preparation for revolt . 
I went from one to another in the Liberal camp , and all were in the same story , all had been drilled and schooled and fitted out with vacuous argument . 
I know not which of the two I should admire the more the simplicity of the multitude or the audacity of the adventurer . 
But such are the subtleties , such the quibbling reasons , with which he blinds and leads this people . 
I have the privilege of slightly knowing him . 
His hue and temperament are plentifully bilious he has a saturnine eye his cheek is of a dark blue where he has been shaven . 
Essentially he is to be numbered among the man haters , a convinced contemner of his fellows . 
Yet he is himself of a commonplace ambition and greedy of applause . 
All this , however , without grace , pleasantry , or charm , heavily set forth , with a dull countenance . 
In our numerous conversations , although he has always heard me with deference , I have been conscious throughout of a sort of ponderous finessing hard to tolerate . 
He produces none of the effect of a gentleman devoid not merely of pleasantry , but of all attention or communicative warmth of bearing . 
Gondremark has thus some of the clumsier characters of the self made man , combined with an inordinate , almost a besotted , pride of intellect and birth . 
Heavy , bilious , selfish , inornate , he sits upon this court and country like an incubus . 
But it is probable that he preserves softer gifts for necessary purposes . 
Hence there has probably sprung up the idle legend that in private life he is a gross romping voluptuary . 
Nothing , at least , can well be more surprising than the terms of his connection with the Princess . 
I do not here refer to the complete sacrifice of every rag of her reputation for to many women these extremities are in themselves attractive . 
I had thought , at first , that she was but a hired accomplice , a mere blind or buffer for the more important sinner . 
A few hours' acquaintance with Madame von Rosen for ever dispelled the illusion . 
She is one rather to make than to prevent a scandal , and she values none of those bribes money , honours , or employment with which the situation might be gilded . 
Indeed , as a person frankly bad , she pleased me , in the court of Grunewald , like a piece of nature . 
The power of this man over the Princess is , therefore , without bounds . 
This is one of the mysteries of the human heart . 
CHAPTER III THE PRINCE AND THE ENGLISH TRAVELLER So far Otto read , with waxing indignation and here his fury overflowed . 
He tossed the roll upon the table and stood up . 
'This man , he said , 'is a devil . 
'The disposition of the guards is a matter distinct from my functions . 
Otto turned upon the old man fiercely , but ere he had time to speak , Gotthold touched him on the arm . 
He swallowed his wrath with a great effort . 
'It is well , he said , taking the roll . 
'Follow me to the Flag Tower . 
The Chancellor gathered himself together , and the two set forward . 
A sentinel at the foot of the tower stairs presented arms another paced the first landing and a third was stationed before the door of the extemporised prison . 
'We guard this mud bag like a jewel , Otto sneered . 
The Gamiani apartment was so called from an Italian doctor who had imposed on the credulity of a former prince . 
, and the windows were heavily barred . 
Sir John was finishing his toilet a man of fifty , hard , uncompromising , able , with the eye and teeth of physical courage . 
He was unmoved by the irruption , and bowed with a sort of sneering ease . 
'To what am I to attribute the honour of this visit ? he asked . 
'You have eaten my bread , replied Otto , 'you have taken my hand , you have been received under my roof . 
'Your Highness has read my papers ? said the Baronet . 
But the sketch is most imperfect . 
I shall now have much to add . 
I can say that the Prince , whom I had accused of idleness , is zealous in the department of police , taking upon himself those duties that are most distasteful . 
I shall be able to relate the burlesque incident of my arrest , and the singular interview with which you honour me at present . 
For I hardly fancy the future empire of Grunewald is yet ripe to go to war with England . 
I conceive I am a little more than quits . 
I owe you no explanation yours has been the wrong . 
You , if you have studied my writing with intelligence , owe me a large debt of gratitude . 
And to conclude , as I have not yet finished my toilet , I imagine the courtesy of a turnkey to a prisoner would induce you to withdraw . 
There was some paper on the table , and Otto , sitting down , wrote a passport in the name of Sir John Crabtree . 
'Affix the seal , Herr Cancellarius , he said , in his most princely manner , as he rose . 
Greisengesang produced a red portfolio , and affixed the seal in the unpoetic guise of an adhesive stamp nor did his perturbed and clumsy movements at all lessen the comedy of the performance . 
Sir John looked on with a malign enjoyment and Otto chafed , regretting , when too late , the unnecessary royalty of his command and gesture . 
But at length the Chancellor had finished his piece of prestidigitation , and , without waiting for an order , had countersigned the passport . 
Thus regularised , he returned it to Otto with a bow . 
Sir John departs this morning for Vienna . 
The Chancellor took his elaborate departure . 
'Here , sir , is your passport , said Otto , turning to the Baronet . 
'I regret it from my heart that you have met inhospitable usage . 
'Well , there will be no English war , returned Sir John . 
'Nay , sir , said Otto , 'you surely owe me your civility . 
Matters are now changed , and we stand again upon the footing of two gentlemen . 
It was not I who ordered your arrest I returned late last night from hunting and as you cannot blame me for your imprisonment , you may even thank me for your freedom . 
'And yet you read my papers , said the traveller shrewdly . 
'There , sir , I was wrong , returned Otto 'and for that I ask your pardon . 
You can scarce refuse it , for your own dignity , to one who is a plexus of weaknesses . 
Nor was the fault entirely mine . 
Had the papers been innocent , it would have been at most an indiscretion . 
Your own guilt is the sting of my offence . 
Sir John regarded Otto with an approving twinkle then he bowed , but still in silence . 
'Well , sir , as you are now at your entire disposal , I have a favour to beg of your indulgence , continued the Prince . 
'I have to request that you will walk with me alone into the garden so soon as your convenience permits . 
'I thank you , sir , said Otto . 
Nor did Otto pause till they had reached the highest terrace of the garden . 
Here was a gate into the park , and hard by , under a tuft of laurel , a marble garden seat . 
I pray you to be seated , sir , said Otto . 
Sir John complied without a word and for some seconds Otto walked to and fro before him , plunged in angry thought . 
The birds were all singing for a wager . 
'Sir , said the Prince at length , turning towards the Englishman , 'you are to me , except by the conventions of society , a perfect stranger . 
Of your character and wishes I am ignorant . 
I have never wittingly disobliged you . 
There is a difference in station , which I desire to waive . 
I would , if you still think me entitled to so much consideration I would be regarded simply as a gentleman . 
I opened your roll and what did I find what did I find about my wife Lies ! he broke out . 
You say , sir , in that paper in your hand , that I am a bad fencer I have to request from you a lesson in the art . 
'You will observe , said Sir John , 'that what you ask is impossible . 
'And if I struck you ? cried the Prince , with a sudden menacing flash . 
'It would be a cowardly blow , returned the Baronet , unmoved , 'for it would make no change . 
I cannot draw upon a reigning sovereign . 
'And it is this man , to whom you dare not offer satisfaction , that you choose to insult ! cried Otto . 
'Pardon me , said the traveller , 'you are unjust . 
It is because you are a reigning sovereign that I cannot fight with you and it is for the same reason that I have a right to criticise your action and your wife . 
You are in everything a public creature you belong to the public , body and bone . 
You have with you the law , the muskets of the army , and the eyes of spies . 
We , on our side , have but one weapon truth . 
'Truth ! echoed the Prince , with a gesture . 
'Your Highness , said Sir John at last , 'you must not expect grapes from a thistle . 
I am old and a cynic . 
Nobody cares a rush for me and on the whole , after the present interview , I scarce know anybody that I like better than yourself . 
You see , I have changed my mind , and have the uncommon virtue to avow the change . 
'Sir , said Otto , 'is the eye not jaundiced ? 'Nay , cried the traveller , 'very likely . 
I am one who goes sniffing I am no poet . 
I believe in a better future for the world or , at all accounts , I do most potently disbelieve in the present . 
Rotten eggs is the burthen of my song . 
But indeed , your Highness , when I meet with any merit , I do not think that I am slow to recognise it . 
'And now , sir , added Otto , 'there is the Pheasant House close behind it you will find my carriage , which I pray you to accept . 
God speed you to Vienna ! 'In the impetuosity of youth , replied Sir John , 'your Highness has overlooked one circumstance . 
'Well , sir , said Otto , smiling , 'you are your own master you may go or stay . 
But I warn you , your friend may prove less powerful than your enemies . 
'There is a deal in position , returned the traveller , gravely nodding . 
Who knows ? You may be yet the better man . 
'Do you indeed believe so ? cried the Prince . 
'You put life into my heart ! 'I will give up sketching portraits , said the Baronet . 
'I am a blind owl I had misread you strangely . 
And yet remember this a sprint is one thing , and to run all day another . 
For I still mistrust your constitution the short nose , the hair and eyes of several complexions no , they are diagnostic and I must end , I see , as I began . 
'I am still a singing chambermaid ? said Otto . 
'Nay , your Highness , I pray you to forget what I had written , said Sir John 'I am not like Pilate and the chapter is no more . 
Bury it , if you love me . 
CHAPTER IV WHILE THE PRINCE IS IN THE ANTE ROOM . 
GREATLY comforted by the exploits of the morning , the Prince turned towards the Princess's ante room , bent on a more difficult enterprise . 
The curtains rose before him , the usher called his name , and he entered the room with an exaggeration of his usual mincing and airy dignity . 
Had this been the sum of his duties , he had been an admirable monarch . 
Lady after lady was impartially honoured by his attention . 
'Madam , he said to one , 'how does this happen ? I find you daily more adorable . 
'And your Highness daily browner , replied the lady . 
'We began equal O , there I will be bold we have both beautiful complexions . 
But while I study mine , your Highness tans himself . 
'A perfect negro , madam and what so fitly being beauty's slave ? said Otto . 
'Madame Grafinski , when is our next play ? I have just heard that I am a bad actor . 
'O CIEL ! cried Madame Grafinski . 
'Who could venture ? What a bear ! 'An excellent man , I can assure you , returned Otto . 
'O , never ! O , is it possible ! fluted the lady . 
'Your Highness plays like an angel . 
'You must be right , madam who could speak falsely and yet look so charming ? said the Prince . 
'But this gentleman , it seems , would have preferred me playing like an actor . 
A sort of hum , a falsetto , feminine cooing , greeted the tiny sally and Otto expanded like a peacock . 
This warm atmosphere of women and flattery and idle chatter pleased him to the marrow . 
'Madame von Eisenthal , your coiffure is delicious , he remarked . 
'Every one was saying so , said one . 
'If I have pleased Prince Charming ? And Madame von Eisenthal swept him a deep curtsy with a killing glance of adoration . 
'It is new ? he asked . 
'Mint new , replied the lady , 'for your Highness's return . 
I felt young this morning it was a premonition . 
But why , Prince , do you ever leave us ? 'For the pleasure of the return , said Otto . 
'I am like a dog I must bury my bone , and then come back to great upon it . 
'O , a bone ! Fie , what a comparison ! You have brought back the manners of the wood , returned the lady . 
'Madam , it is what the dog has dearest , said the Prince . 
'But I observe Madame von Rosen . 
And Otto , leaving the group to which he had been piping , stepped towards the embrasure of a window where a lady stood . 
The Countess von Rosen had hitherto been silent , and a thought depressed , but on the approach of Otto she began to brighten . 
She met Otto with the dart of tender gaiety . 
'You have come to me at last , Prince Cruel , she said . 
'Butterfly ! Well , and am I not to kiss your hand ? she added . 
'Madam , it is I who must kiss yours . 
And Otto bowed and kissed it . 
'You deny me every indulgence , she said , smiling . 
'And now what news in Court ? inquired the Prince . 
'I come to you for my gazette . 
'Ditch water ! she replied . 
But yet I do myself and your unfortunate enchanted palace some injustice . 
Here is the last O positively ! And she told him the story from behind her fan , with many glances , many cunning strokes of the narrator's art . 
The others had drawn away , for it was understood that Madame von Rosen was in favour with the Prince . 
None the less , however , did the Countess lower her voice at times to within a semitone of whispering and the pair leaned together over the narrative . 
'Do you know , said Otto , laughing , 'you are the only entertaining woman on this earth ! 'O , you have found out so much , she cried . 
'Yes , madam , I grow wiser with advancing years , he returned . 
'Do you name the traitors ? I do not believe in years the calendar is a delusion . 
'You must be right , madam , replied the Prince . 
'For six years that we have been good friends , I have observed you to grow younger . 
O ! a very solemn moment . 
Do you know what I shall do when the mirror answers , Now ? 'I cannot guess , said he . 
'No more can I , returned the Countess . 
'There is such a choice ! Suicide , gambling , a nunnery , a volume of memoirs , or politics the last , I am afraid . 
'It is a dull trade , said Otto . 
'Nay , she replied , 'it is a trade I rather like . 
It is , after all , first cousin to gossip , which no one can deny to be amusing . 
I am the alchemist that makes the transmutation . 
'Let us change the subject , said Otto . 
'I was about to propose it , she replied , 'or rather to pursue the politics . 
Do you know ? this war is popular popular to the length of cheering Princess Seraphina . 
'And you put up with it ? she cried . 
'I have no pretensions to morality and I confess I have always abominated the lamb , and nourished a romantic feeling for the wolf . 
O , be done with lambiness ! Let us see there is a prince , for I am weary of the distaff . 
'Madam , said Otto , 'I thought you were of that faction . 
'I should be of yours , MON PRINCE , if you had one , she retorted . 
'Is it true that you have no ambition ? There was a man once in England whom they call the kingmaker . 
Do you know , she added , 'I fancy I could make a prince ? 'Some day , madam , said Otto , 'I may ask you to help make a farmer . 
'Is that a riddle ? asked the Countess . 
'It is , replied the Prince , 'and a very good one too . 
I will ask you another , she returned . 
'Where is Gondremark ? 'The Prime Minister ? In the prime ministry , no doubt , said Otto . 
'Precisely , said the Countess and she pointed with her fan to the door of the Princess's apartments . 
'You and I , MON PRINCE , are in the ante room . 
You think me unkind , she added . 
'Try me and you will see . 
Set me a task , put me a question there is no enormity I am not capable of doing to oblige you , and no secret that I am not ready to betray . 
'Nay , madam , but I respect my friend too much , he answered , kissing her hand . 
'I would rather remain ignorant of all . 
We fraternise like foemen soldiers at the outposts , but let each be true to his own army . 
'Ahasuerus reaches you the sceptre more , he will obey you in all points . 
I should have been a dog to come to whistling . 
And so the Prince departed , and fluttered round Grafinski and von Eisenthal . 
But the Countess knew the use of her offensive weapons , and had left a pleasant arrow in the Prince's heart . 
That Gondremark was jealous here was an agreeable revenge ! And Madame von Rosen , as the occasion of the jealousy , appeared to him in a new light . 
GONDREMARK IS IN MY LADY'S CHAMBER THE Countess von Rosen spoke the truth . 
The great Prime Minister of Grunewald was already closeted with Seraphina . 
The toilet was over and the Princess , tastefully arrayed , sat face to face with a tall mirror . 
Sir John's description was unkindly true , true in terms and yet a libel , a misogynistic masterpiece . 
And artful , in a sense , she was . 
It is a common girl's ambition . 
Such was perhaps that lady of the glove , who sent her lover to the lions . 
But the snare is laid alike for male and female , and the world most artfully contrived . 
Near her , in a low chair , Gondremark had arranged his limbs into a cat like attitude , high shouldered , stooping , and submiss . 
The formidable blue jowl of the man , and the dull bilious eye , set perhaps a higher value on his evident desire to please . 
His face was marked by capacity , temper , and a kind of bold , piratical dishonesty which it would be calumnious to call deceit . 
His manners , as he smiled upon the Princess , were over fine , yet hardly elegant . 
'Possibly , said the Baron , 'I should now proceed to take my leave . 
I must not keep my sovereign in the ante room . 
Let us come at once to a decision . 
'It cannot , cannot be put off ? she asked . 
'It is impossible , answered Gondremark . 
'Your Highness sees it for herself . 
In the earlier stages , we might imitate the serpent but for the ultimatum , there is no choice but to be bold like lions . 
Had the Prince chosen to remain away , it had been better but we have gone too far forward to delay . 
'What can have brought him ? she cried . 
'To day of all days ? 'The marplot , madam , has the instinct of his nature , returned Gondremark . 
'But you exaggerate the peril . 
Think , madam , how far we have prospered , and against what odds ! Shall a Featherhead ? but no ! And he blew upon his fingers lightly with a laugh . 
'Featherhead , she replied , 'is still the Prince of Grunewald . 
'On your sufferance only , and so long as you shall please to be indulgent , said the Baron . 
'There are rights of nature power to the powerful is the law . 
If he shall think to cross your destiny well , you have heard of the brazen and the earthen pot . 
'Do you call me pot ? You are ungallant , Baron , laughed the Princess . 
'Before we are done with your glory , I shall have called you by many different titles , he replied . 
The girl flushed with pleasure . 
'But Frederic is still the Prince , MONSIEUR LE FLATTEUR , she said . 
'You do not propose a revolution ? you of all men ? 'Dear madam , when it is already made ! he cried . 
'The Prince reigns indeed in the almanac but my Princess reigns and rules . 
And he looked at her with a fond admiration that made the heart of Seraphina swell . 
Looking on her huge slave , she drank the intoxicating joys of power . 
May I name it ? may I be so irreverent ? It is in herself her heart is soft . 
'Her courage is faint , Baron , said the Princess . 
'Suppose we have judged ill , suppose we were defeated ? 'Defeated , madam ? returned the Baron , with a touch of ill humour . 
It is as simple as a sum . 
There can be no resistance . 
'It is no great exploit , she said . 
'Is that what you call glory ? It is like beating a child . 
'The courage , madam , is diplomatic , he replied . 
It is there , madam , that I shall have to depend upon your counsels , he added , almost gloomily . 
'If I had not seen you at work , if I did not know the fertility of your mind , I own I should tremble for the consequence . 
But it is in this field that men must recognise their inability . 
All the great negotiators , when they have not been women , have had women at their elbows . 
These singular views of history , strictly AD USUM SERAPHINAE , did not weave their usual soothing spell over the Princess . 
I would put a good name upon a virtue you will not overdo it they are not so enchanting in themselves . 
'Well , but let me see , she said . 
'I wish to understand your courage . 
Why we asked leave , like children ! Our grannie in Berlin , our uncle in Vienna , the whole family , have patted us on the head and sent us forward . 
Courage ? I wonder when I hear you ! 'My Princess is unlike herself , returned the Baron . 
'She has forgotten where the peril lies . 
Had we to count upon your troops , although I share your Highness's expectations of the conduct of Alvenau , we cannot forget that he has not been proved in chief command . 
But where negotiation is concerned , the conduct lies with us and with your help , I laugh at danger . 
'It may be so , said Seraphina , sighing . 
'It is elsewhere that I see danger . 
But why should I say all this ? It is what my Princess pointed out to me herself it was by these reasons that she converted me to this adventure . 
'I think , Herr von Gondremark , said Seraphina , somewhat tartly , 'you often attribute your own sagacity to your Princess . 
For a second Gondremark staggered under the shrewdness of the attack the next , he had perfectly recovered . 
'Do I ? he said . 
I have observed a similar tendency in your Highness . 
It was so openly spoken , and appeared so just , that Seraphina breathed again . 
Her vanity had been alarmed , and the greatness of the relief improved her spirits . 
'Well , she said , 'all this is little to the purpose . 
We are keeping Frederic without , and I am still ignorant of our line of battle . 
Come , co admiral , let us consult . 
How am I to receive him now ? And what are we to do if he should appear at the council ? 'Now , he answered . 
'I shall leave him to my Princess for just now ! I have seen her at work . 
Send him off to his theatricals ! But in all gentleness , he added . 
'Would it , for instance , would it displease my sovereign to affect a headache ? 'Never ! said she . 
'The woman who can manage , like the man who can fight , must never shrink from an encounter . 
The knight must not disgrace his weapons . 
'Then let me pray my BELLE DAME SANS MERCI , he returned , 'to affect the only virtue that she lacks . 
Be pitiful to the poor young man affect an interest in his hunting be weary of politics find in his society , as it were , a grateful repose from dry considerations . 
Does my Princess authorise the line of battle ? 'Well , that is a trifle , answered Seraphina . 
'The council there is the point . 
'The council ? cried Gondremark . 
And he rose and proceeded to flutter about the room , counterfeiting Otto both in voice and gesture not unhappily . 
What are these papers about ? O , I see . 
I wager none of you remarked that wig . 
I know nothing about that . 
Dear me , are there as many as all that ? Well , you can sign them you have the procuration . 
You see , Herr Cancellarius , I knew your wig . 
And so , concluded Gondremark , resuming his own voice , 'our sovereign , by the particular grace of God , enlightens and supports his privy councillors . 
But when the Baron turned to Seraphina for approval , he found her frozen . 
'You are pleased to be witty , Herr von Gondremark , she said , 'and have perhaps forgotten where you are . 
But these rehearsals are apt to be misleading . 
Your master , the Prince of Grunewald , is sometimes more exacting . 
Gondremark cursed her in his soul . 
Of all injured vanities , that of the reproved buffoon is the most savage and when grave issues are involved , these petty stabs become unbearable . 
But Gondremark was a man of iron he showed nothing he did not even , like the common trickster , retreat because he had presumed , but held to his point bravely . 
'Madam , he said , 'if , as you say , he prove exacting , we must take the bull by the horns . 
'We shall see , she said , and she arranged her skirt like one about to rise . 
Temper , scorn , disgust , all the more acrid feelings , became her like jewels and she now looked her best . 
'Pray God they quarrel , thought Gondremark . 
'The damned minx may fail me yet , unless they quarrel . 
It is time to let him in . 
Zz fight , dogs ! Consequent on these reflections , he bent a stiff knee and chivalrously kissed the Princess's hand . 
'My Princess , he said , 'must now dismiss her servant . 
I have much to arrange against the hour of council . 
'Go , she said , and rose . 
And as Gondremark tripped out of a private door , she touched a bell , and gave the order to admit the Prince . 
Her usual fear of Otto as a marplot in her great designs was now swallowed up in a passing distrust of the designs themselves . 
For Gondremark , besides , she had conceived an angry horror . 
In her heart she did not like the Baron . 
Behind his impudent servility , behind the devotion which , with indelicate delicacy , he still forced on her attention , she divined the grossness of his nature . 
So a man may be proud of having tamed a bear , and yet sicken at his captive's odour . 
And above all , she had certain jealous intimations that the man was false and the deception double . 
True , she falsely trifled with his love but he , perhaps , was only trifling with her vanity . 
The insolence of his late mimicry , and the odium of her own position as she sat and watched it , lay besides like a load upon her conscience . 
She met Otto almost with a sense of guilt , and yet she welcomed him as a deliverer from ugly things . 
But the wheels of an interview are at the mercy of a thousand ruts and even at Otto's entrance , the first jolt occurred . 
Struggling with this twinge , it was somewhat sharply that he dismissed the attendant who had brought him in . 
'You make yourself at home , CHEZ MOI , she said , a little ruffled both by his tone of command and by the glance he had thrown upon the chair . 
'Madam , replied Otto , 'I am here so seldom that I have almost the rights of a stranger . 
'You choose your own associates , Frederic , she said . 
'I am here to speak of it , he returned . 
'It is now four years since we were married and these four years , Seraphina , have not perhaps been happy either for you or for me . 
I am well aware I was unsuitable to be your husband . 
I was not young , I had no ambition , I was a trifler and you despised me , I dare not say unjustly . 
But to do justice on both sides , you must bear in mind how I have acted . 
And indeed , one thing is true , that it is easy , too easy , to leave things undone . 
But Seraphina , I begin to learn it is not always wise . 
In that relation also there were duties , and these duties I have not performed . 
To claim the advantage of superior age is to give sure offence . 
'Duty ! laughed Seraphina , 'and on your lips , Frederic ! You make me laugh . 
What fancy is this ? Go , flirt with the maids and be a prince in Dresden china , as you look . 
Enjoy yourself , MON ENFANT , and leave duty and the state to us . 
The plural grated on the Prince . 
'I have enjoyed myself too much , he said , 'since enjoyment is the word . 
And yet there were much to say upon the other side . 
You must suppose me desperately fond of hunting . 
But indeed there were days when I found a great deal of interest in what it was courtesy to call my government . 
But when I remember the beginning , it is bare courtesy to speak in sorrow . 
Be just , madam you would think me strangely uncivil to recall these days without the decency of a regret . 
Be yet a little juster , and own , if only in complaisance , that you yourself regret that past . 
'I have nothing to regret , said the Princess . 
I thought you were so happy . 
'Happy and happy , there are so many hundred ways , said Otto . 
Happy , yes I am happy if you like but I will tell you frankly , I was happier when I brought you home . 
'Well , said the Princess , not without constraint , 'it seems you changed your mind . 
'Not I , returned Otto , 'I never changed . 
There were nine , nine red roses you gave me a kiss for each , and I told myself that every rose and every kiss should stand for a year of love . 
Well , in eighteen months there was an end . 
But do you fancy , Seraphina , that my heart has altered ? 'I am sure I cannot tell , she said , like an automaton . 
'It has not , the Prince continued . 
'There is nothing ridiculous , even from a husband , in a love that owns itself unhappy and that asks no more . 
'How very poetical ! she said , with a little choking laugh , unknown relentings , unfamiliar softnesses , moving within her . 
'What would you be at ? she added , hardening her voice . 
'I would be at this , he answered 'and hard it is to say . 
I would be at this Seraphina , I am your husband after all , and a poor fool that loves you . 
Understand , he cried almost fiercely , 'I am no suppliant husband what your love refuses I would scorn to receive from your pity . 
I do not ask , I would not take it . 
And for jealousy , what ground have I ? A dog in the manger jealousy is a thing the dogs may laugh at . 
What do you in return ? I find , Seraphina , that you have been too thoughtless . 
But between persons such as we are , in our conspicuous station , particular care and a particular courtesy are owing . 
Scandal is perhaps not easy to avoid but it is hard to bear . 
'Scandal ! she cried , with a deep breath . 
'Scandal ! It is for this you have been driving ! 'I have tried to tell you how I feel , he replied . 
'I have told you that I love you love you in vain a bitter thing for a husband I have laid myself open that I might speak without offence . 
And now that I have begun , I will go on and finish . 
'I demand it , she said . 
'What is this about ? Otto flushed crimson . 
'I have to say what I would fain not , he answered . 
'I counsel you to see less of Gondremark . 
'Of Gondremark ? And why ? she asked . 
'You are the first to bring me word of it , said she . 
'You have perhaps cause , he replied . 
'Perhaps I am the only one among your friends 'O , leave my friends alone , she interrupted . 
'My friends are of a different stamp . 
You have come to me here and made a parade of sentiment . 
When have I last seen you ? I have governed your kingdom for you in the meanwhile , and there I got no help . 
Scandal is the atmosphere in which we live , we princes it is what a prince should know . 
You play an odious part . 
Do you believe this rumour ? 'Madam , should I be here ? said Otto . 
'It is what I want to know ! she cried , the tempest of her scorn increasing . 
'Suppose you did I say , suppose you did believe it ? 'I should make it my business to suppose the contrary , he answered . 
O , you are made of baseness ! said she . 
'Madam , he cried , roused at last , 'enough of this . 
You wilfully misunderstand my attitude you outwear my patience . 
In the name of your parents , in my own name , I summon you to be more circumspect . 
'Is this a request , MONSIEUR MON MARI ? she demanded . 
'Madam , if I chose , I might command , said Otto . 
'You might , sir , as the law stands , make me prisoner , returned Seraphina . 
'Short of that you will gain nothing . 
'You will continue as before ? he asked . 
'Precisely as before , said she . 
'As soon as this comedy is over , I shall request the Freiherr von Gondremark to visit me . 
Do you understand ? she added , rising . 
'For my part , I have done . 
'I will then ask the favour of your hand , madam , said Otto , palpitating in every pulse with anger . 
'I have to request that you will visit in my society another part of my poor house . 
And reassure yourself it will not take long and it is the last obligation that you shall have the chance to lay me under . 
'The last ? she cried . 
'Most joyfully ? She offered her hand , and he took it on each side with an elaborate affectation , each inwardly incandescent . 
The first room was an armoury , hung all about with the weapons of various countries , and looking forth on the front terrace . 
'Have you brought me here to slay me ? she inquired . 
'I have brought you , madam , only to pass on , replied Otto . 
Next they came to a library , where an old chamberlain sat half asleep . 
He rose and bowed before the princely couple , asking for orders . 
'You will attend us here , said Otto . 
He pointed to it without a word she raised her eyebrows in silence and they passed still forward into a matted corridor where four doors opened . 
One led to Otto's bedroom one was the private door to Seraphina's . 
And here , for the first time , Otto left her hand , and stepping forward , shot the bolt . 
'It is long , madam , said he , 'since it was bolted on the other side . 
'One was effectual , returned the Princess . 
'Is this all ? 'Shall I reconduct you ? he asking , bowing . 
'I should prefer , she asked , in ringing tones , 'the conduct of the Freiherr von Gondremark . 
'If the Freiherr von Gondremark is in the palace , he said , 'bid him attend the Princess here . 
And when the official had departed , 'Can I do more to serve you , madam ? the Prince asked . 
I have been much amused , she answered . 
'I have now , continued Otto , 'given you your liberty complete . 
This has been for you a miserable marriage . 
'It has been made light to you it shall be lighter still , continued the Prince . 
'But one thing , madam , you must still continue to bear my father's name , which is now yours . 
I leave it in your hands . 
Let me see you , since you will have no advice of mine , apply the more attention of your own to bear it worthily . 
'Herr von Gondremark is long in coming , she remarked . 
'O Seraphina , Seraphina ! he cried . 
And that was the end of their interview . 
The Princess faced round from the window with a pearly smile nothing but her heightened colour spoke of discomposure . 
Otto was pale , but he was otherwise master of himself . 
'Herr von Gondremark , said he , 'oblige me so far reconduct the Princess to her own apartment . 
The Baron , still all at sea , offered his hand , which was smilingly accepted , and the pair sailed forth through the picture gallery . 
A fiasco so complete and sweeping was laughable , even to himself and he laughed aloud in his wrath . 
Upon this mood there followed the sharpest violence of remorse and to that again , as he recalled his provocation , anger succeeded afresh . 
So he was tossed in spirit now bewailing his inconsequence and lack of temper , now flaming up in white hot indignation and a noble pity for himself . 
He paced his apartment like a leopard . 
There was danger in Otto , for a flash . 
Like a pistol , he could kill at one moment , and the next he might he kicked aside . 
But just then , as he walked the long floors in his alternate humours , tearing his handkerchief between his hands , he was strung to his top note , every nerve attent . 
The pistol , you might say , was charged . 
He disregarded jealousy's inventions , yet they stung . 
In this height of anger , he still preserved his faith in Seraphina's innocence but the thought of her possible misconduct was the bitterest ingredient in his pot of sorrow . 
There came a knock at the door , and the chamberlain brought him a note . 
He took it and ground it in his hand , continuing his march , continuing his bewildered thoughts and some minutes had gone by before the circumstance came clearly to his mind . 
Then he paused and opened it . 
It was a pencil scratch from Gotthold , thus conceived 'The council is privately summoned at once . 
H. If the council was thus called before the hour , and that privately , it was plain they feared his interference . 
Feared here was a sweet thought . 
Well , none should be disappointed the Prince , too long beshadowed by the uxorious lover , should now return and shine . 
CHAPTER VII THE PRINCE DISSOLVES THE COUNCIL IT was as Gotthold wrote . 
The liberation of Sir John , Greisengesang's uneasy narrative , last of all , the scene between Seraphina and the Prince , had decided the conspirators to take a step of bold timidity . 
It was not a large body . 
At the instance of Gondremark , it had undergone a strict purgation , and was now composed exclusively of tools . 
Three secretaries sat at a side table . 
His present appearance was the more ominous , coming when it did . 
Gondremark scowled upon him and the non combatant on his right , intercepting this black look , edged away from one who was so clearly out of favour . 
'The hour presses , your Highness , said the Baron 'may we proceed to business ? 'At once , replied Seraphina . 
'Your Highness will pardon me , said Gotthold 'but you are still , perhaps , unacquainted with the fact that Prince Otto has returned . 
'The Prince will not attend the council , replied Seraphina , with a momentary blush . 
'The despatches , Herr Cancellarius ? There is one for Gerolstein ? A secretary brought a paper . 
'Here , madam , said Greisengesang . 
'Shall I read it ? 'We are all familiar with its terms , replied Gondremark . 
'Your Highness approves ? 'Unhesitatingly , said Seraphina . 
'It may then be held as read , concluded the Baron . 
'Will your Highness sign ? The Princess did so Gondremark , Eisenthal , and one of the non combatants followed suit and the paper was then passed across the table to the librarian . 
He proceeded leisurely to read . 
'We have no time to spare , Herr Doctor , cried the Baron brutally . 
'If you do not choose to sign on the authority of your sovereign , pass it on . 
Or you may leave the table , he added , his temper ripping out . 
'Madame and gentlemen , he said , at last , 'what I hold in my hand is simply a declaration of war . 
'Simply , said Seraphina , flashing defiance . 
'The sovereign of this country is under the same roof with us , continued Gotthold , 'and I insist he shall be summoned . 
It is needless to adduce my reasons you are all ashamed at heart of this projected treachery . 
The council waved like a sea . 
'You insult the Princess , thundered Gondremark . 
'I maintain my protest , replied Gotthold . 
At the height of this confusion the door was thrown open an usher announced , 'Gentlemen , the Prince ! and Otto , with his most excellent bearing , entered the apartment . 
'Gentlemen , said the Prince , pausing . 
They all got to their feet in a moment and this reproof still further demoralised the weaker brethren . 
'I understood , said Seraphina , taking him up , 'that you did not purpose to be present . 
Their eyes met for a second , and Seraphina's fell but her anger only burned the brighter for that private shame . 
'And now , gentlemen , said Otto , taking his chair , 'I pray you to be seated . 
I have been absent there are doubtless some arrears but ere we proceed to business , Herr Grafinski , you will direct four thousand crowns to be sent to me at once . 
Make a note , if you please , he added , as the treasurer still stared in wonder . 
'Four thousand crowns ? asked Seraphina . 
'Pray , for what ? 'Madam , returned Otto , smiling , 'for my own purposes . 
Gondremark spurred up Grafinski underneath the table . 
'If your Highness will indicate the destination . 
'You are not here , sir , to interrogate your Prince , said Otto . 
Grafinski looked for help to his commander and Gondremark came to his aid , in suave and measured tones . 
The resources of the state are at the present moment entirely swallowed up , or , as we hope to prove , wisely invested . 
Our zeal is no less , although our power may be inadequate . 
'How much , Herr Grafinski , have we in the treasury ? asked Otto . 
'Your Highness , protested the treasurer , 'we have immediate need of every crown . 
'I think , sir , you evade me , flashed the Prince and then turning to the side table , 'Mr . 
Secretary , he added , 'bring me , if you please , the treasury docket . 
Herr Grafinski became deadly pale the Chancellor , expecting his own turn , was probably engaged in prayer Gondremark was watching like a ponderous cat . 
'That is exact , your Highness , replied the Baron . 
Essentially , the case is empty . 
We have , already presented , a large note for material of war . 
'Material of war ? exclaimed Otto , with an excellent assumption of surprise . 
'But if my memory serves me right , we settled these accounts in January . 
'There have been further orders , the Baron explained . 
'A new park of artillery has been completed five hundred stand of arms , seven hundred baggage mules the details are in a special memorandum . 
Mr. Secretary Holtz , the memorandum , if you please . 
'One would think , gentlemen , that we were going to war , said Otto . 
'We are , said Seraphina . 
'War ! cried the Prince , 'and , gentlemen , with whom ? The peace of Grunewald has endured for centuries . 
What aggression , what insult , have we suffered ? 'Here , your Highness , said Gotthold , 'is the ultimatum . 
It was in the very article of signature , when your Highness so opportunely entered . 
Otto laid the paper before him as he read , his fingers played tattoo upon the table . 
'Was it proposed , he inquired , 'to send this paper forth without a knowledge of my pleasure ? One of the non combatants , eager to trim , volunteered an answer . 
'The Herr Doctor von Hohenstockwitz had just entered his dissent , he added . 
'Give me the rest of this correspondence , said the Prince . 
It was handed to him , and he read it patiently from end to end , while the councillors sat foolishly enough looking before them on the table . 
The secretaries , in the background , were exchanging glances of delight a row at the council was for them a rare and welcome feature . 
'Gentlemen , said Otto , when he had finished , 'I have read with pain . 
This claim upon Obermunsterol is palpably unjust it has not a tincture , not a show , of justice . 
There is not in all this ground enough for after dinner talk , and you propose to force it as a CASUS BELLI . 
'Certainly , your Highness , returned Gondremark , too wise to defend the indefensible , 'the claim on Obermunsterol is simply a pretext . 
'It is well , said the Prince . 
'Herr Cancellarius , take your pen . 
You have it ? Upon these lines , sir , you will draw up the despatch . 
'If your Highness will allow me , said the Baron , 'your Highness is so imperfectly acquainted with the internal history of this correspondence , that any interference will be merely hurtful . 
Such a paper as your Highness proposes would be to stultify the whole previous policy of Grunewald . 
'The policy of Grunewald ! cried the Prince . 
But the body politic is seriously diseased republicanism , socialism , many disintegrating ideas are abroad circle within circle , a really formidable organisation has grown up about your Highness's throne . 
'I have heard of it , Herr von Gondremark , put in the Prince 'but I have reason to be aware that yours is the more authoritative information . 
'I am honoured by this expression of my Prince's confidence' returned Gondremark , unabashed . 
'It is , therefore , with a single eye to these disorders that our present external policy has been shaped . 
'You are very adroit , Herr von Gondremark , said Otto . 
'You fill me with admiration . 
I had not heretofore done justice to your qualities . 
Seraphina looked up with joy , supposing Otto conquered but Gondremark still waited , armed at every point he knew how very stubborn is the revolt of a weak character . 
'And the territorial army scheme , to which I was persuaded to consent was it secretly directed to the same end ? the Prince asked . 
'I still believe the effect to have been good , replied the Baron 'discipline and mounting guard are excellent sedatives . 
'It was ? asked Otto . 
'Strange ! Upon what fancied grounds ? 'The grounds were indeed fanciful , returned the Baron . 
'I see , said the Prince . 
'His Highness begins to understand ? repeated Gondremark , with the sweetest politeness . 
'May I beg of him to complete the phrase ? 'The history of the revolution , replied Otto dryly . 
The revolution hangs imminent we sit , at this council board , below the sword of Damocles . 
'We must then lay our heads together , said the Prince , 'and devise some honourable means of safety . 
Up to this moment , since the first note of opposition fell from the librarian , Seraphina had uttered about twenty words . 
With a somewhat heightened colour , her eyes generally lowered , her foot sometimes nervously tapping on the floor , she had kept her own counsel and commanded her anger like a hero . 
But at this stage of the engagement she lost control of her impatience . 
'They have been found and prepared before you knew the need for them . 
Sign the despatch , and let us be done with this delay . 
'Madam , I said honourable , returned Otto , bowing . 
'This war is , in my eyes , and by Herr von Gondremark's account , an inadmissible expedient . 
If we have misgoverned here in Grunewald , are the people of Gerolstein to bleed and pay for our mis doings ? Never , madam not while I live . 
'And should you fail ? she asked . 
'Should I fail , I will then meet the blow half way , replied the Prince . 
'On the first open discontent , I shall convoke the States , and , when it pleases them to bid me , abdicate . 
'This is the man for whom we have been labouring ! she cried . 
I took counsel with the wisest I could find , while you were eating and hunting . 
O ! it is intolerable . 
Do not presume upon the rank you cannot worthily uphold . 
I would not issue my commands with so much gusto it is from no merit in yourself they are obeyed . 
At this surprising outburst the whole council sat aghast . 
'Madam , said the Baron , alarmed out of his caution , 'command yourself . 
'Address yourself to me , sir ! cried the Prince . 
'I will not bear these whisperings ! Seraphina burst into tears . 
'Sir , cried the Baron , rising , 'this lady 'Herr von Gondremark , said the Prince , 'one more observation , and I place you under arrest . 
'Your Highness is the master , replied Gondremark , bowing . 
'Bear it in mind more constantly , said Otto . 
'Herr Cancellarius , bring all the papers to my cabinet . 
Gentlemen , the council is dissolved . 
CHAPTER VIII THE PARTY OF WAR TAKES ACTION HALF an hour after , Gondremark was once more closeted with Seraphina . 
'Where is he now ? she asked , on his arrival . 
'Madam , he is with the Chancellor , replied the Baron . 
'Madam , said Gondremark , 'nothing is lost . 
Something , on the other hand , is found . 
So long as he had a right to interfere , the empire that may be was still distant . 
I have not entered on this course without the plain foresight of its dangers and even for this I was prepared . 
'I , born to command ! she said . 
'Do you forget my tears ? 'Madam , they were the tears of Alexander , cried the Baron . 
'It was a thing to see . 
I drank confidence ! I tried to imitate your calm . 
Let us be open let me disclose my heart . 
I have loved two things , not unworthily Grunewald and my sovereign ! Here he kissed her hand . 
'Either I must resign my ministry , leave the land of my adoption and the queen whom I had chosen to obey or He paused again . 
'Alas , Herr von Gondremark , there is no or , said Seraphina . 
'Nay , madam , give me time , he replied . 
I have , madam , I believe , some genius and I have much ambition . 
But the genius is of the serving kind and to offer a career to my ambition , I had to find one born to rule . 
This is the base and essence of our union each had need of the other each recognised , master and servant , lever and fulcrum , the complement of his endowment . 
Marriages , they say , are made in heaven how much more these pure , alborious , intellectual fellowships , born to found empires ! Nor is this all . 
We found each other ripe , filled with great ideas that took shape and clarified with every word . 
We grew together ay , madam , in mind we grew together like twin children . 
'It is true , she cried . 
Yours is the genius your generosity confounds your insight all I could offer you was the position , was this throne , to be a fulcrum . 
But I offered it without reserve I entered at least warmly into all your thoughts you were sure of me sure of my support certain of justice . 
Tell me , tell me again , that I have helped you . 
'Nay , madam , he said , 'you made me . 
In everything you were my inspiration . 
Well , you have your reward with the fall of Brandenau , the throne of your Empire is founded . 
'What thought have you in your mind ? she asked . 
'Is not all ruined ? 'Nay , my Princess , the same thought is in both our minds , he said . 
'Herr von Gondremark , she replied , 'by all that I hold sacred , I have none I do not think at all I am crushed . 
'You are looking at the passionate side of a rich nature , misunderstood and recently insulted , said the Baron . 
'Look into your intellect , and tell me . 
'I find nothing , nothing but tumult , she replied . 
'You find one word branded , madam , returned the Baron Abdication ! 'O ! she cried . 
'The coward ! He leaves me to bear all , and in the hour of trial he stabs me from behind . 
I perceive a glimmering there . 
'I read your fancy , she returned . 
'It is mere madness , midsummer madness . 
Baron , I am more unpopular than he . 
They can excuse , they can love , his weakness but me , they hate . 
'Such is the gratitude of peoples , said the Baron . 
Here , madam , are my plain thoughts . 
The man who in the hour of danger speaks of abdication is , for me , a venomous animal . 
I speak with the bluntness of gravity , madam this is no hour for mincing . 
The coward , in a station of authority , is more dangerous than fire . 
We dwell on a volcano if this man can have his way , Grunewald before a week will have been deluged with innocent blood . 
You know the truth of what I say we have looked unblenching into this ever possible catastrophe . 
To him it is nothing he will abdicate ! Abdicate , just God ! and this unhappy country committed to his charge , and the lives of men and the honour of women . 
His voice appeared to fail him in an instant he had conquered his emotion and resumed 'But you , madam , conceive more worthily of your responsibilities . 
Honour , duty , ay , and the care of our own lives , demand we should proceed . 
She was looking at him , her brow thoughtfully knitted . 
'I feel it , she said . 
'But how ? He has the power . 
'Show me how ! she cried . 
'Suppose I were to place him under some constraint , the revolution would break upon us instantly . 
'It is true , he said . 
'You see more clearly than I do . 
Yet there should , there must be , some way . 
And he waited for his chance . 
'No , she said 'I told you from the first there is no remedy . 
'The thing ! he cried , striking his brow . 
'Fool , not to have thought of it ! Madam , without perhaps knowing it , you have solved our problem . 
'What do you mean ? Speak ! she said . 
He appeared to collect himself and then , with a smile , 'The Prince , he said , 'must go once more a hunting . 
'Ay , if he would ! cried she , 'and stay there ! 'And stay there , echoed the Baron . 
It was so significantly said , that her face changed and the schemer , fearful of the sinister ambiguity of his expressions , hastened to explain . 
'This time he shall go hunting in a carriage , with a good escort of our foreign lancers . 
His destination shall be the Felsenburg it is healthy , the rock is high , the windows are small and barred it might have been built on purpose . 
We shall intrust the captaincy to the Scotsman Gordon he at least will have no scruple . 
Who will miss the sovereign ? He is gone hunting he came home on Tuesday , on Thursday he returned all is usual in that . 
Seraphina sat gloomy , plunged in thought . 
'Yes , she said suddenly , 'and the despatch ? He is now writing it . 
'It cannot pass the council before Friday , replied Gondremark 'and as for any private note , the messengers are all at my disposal . 
They are picked men , madam . 
I am a person of precaution . 
'I share your Highness's repugnance , answered he . 
'But what would you have ? We are defenceless , else . 
'I see it , but this is sudden . 
It is a public crime , she said , nodding at him with a sort of horror . 
'Look but a little deeper , he returned , 'and whose is the crime ? 'His ! she cried . 
'His , before God ! And I hold him liable . 
But still 'It is not as if he would be harmed , submitted Gondremark . 
'I know it , she replied , but it was still unheartily . 
One of the Princess's ladies begged to enter a man , it appeared , had brought a line for the Freiherr von Gondremark . 
For Greisengesang had but one influential motive fear . 
The note ran thus 'At the first council , procuration to be withdrawn . 
So , after three years of exercise , the right of signature was to be stript from Seraphina . 
'Enough , she said 'I will sign the order . 
When shall he leave ? 'It will take me twelve hours to collect my men , and it had best be done at night . 
To morrow midnight , if you please ? answered the Baron . 
'My door is always open to you , Baron . 
As soon as the order is prepared , bring it me to sign . 
'Madam , he said , 'alone of all of us you do not risk your head in this adventure . 
For that reason , and to prevent all hesitation , I venture to propose the order should be in your hand throughout . 
'You are right , she replied . 
He laid a form before her , and she wrote the order in a clear hand , and re read it . 
Suddenly a cruel smile came on her face . 
'I had forgotten his puppet , said she . 
'They will keep each other company . 
And she interlined and initiated the condemnation of Doctor Gotthold . 
'Your Highness has more memory than your servant , said the Baron and then he , in his turn , carefully perused the fateful paper . 
'You will appear in the drawing room , Baron ? she asked . 
'I thought it better , said he , 'to avoid the possibility of a public affront . 
Anything that shook my credit might hamper us in the immediate future . 
'You are right , she said and she held out her hand as to an old friend and equal . 
CHAPTER IX THE PRICE OF THE RIVER FARM IN WHICH VAINGLORY GOES BEFORE A FALL THE pistol had been practically fired . 
Two matters of detail preserved his spirits . 
All afternoon he was hard at it with the Chancellor , reading , dictating , signing , and despatching papers and this kept him in a glow of self approval . 
To a man of Otto's temper , this was death . 
He could not accept the situation . 
And even as he worked , and worked wisely and well , over the hated details of his principality , he was secretly maturing a plan by which to turn the situation . 
It was a scheme as pleasing to the man as it was dishonourable in the prince in which his frivolous nature found and took vengeance for the gravity and burthen of the afternoon . 
He chuckled as he thought of it and Greisengesang heard him with wonder , and attributed his lively spirits to the skirmish of the morning . 
Led by this idea , the antique courtier ventured to compliment his sovereign on his bearing . 
It reminded him , he said , of Otto's father . 
'What ? asked the Prince , whose thoughts were miles away . 
'Your Highness's authority at the board , explained the flatterer . 
'I quelled them all , he thought . 
The Chancellor's career had been based , from the first off put , on entire subserviency he had crawled into honours and employments and his mind was prostitute . 
The instinct of the creature served him well with Otto . 
Of course no names were used and of course the identity of that abstract or ideal man , with whom she was currently contrasted , remained an open secret . 
Otto was all roseate , in and out , with flattery and Tokay and an approving conscience . 
He saw himself in the most attractive colours . 
In this excellent frame he bade adieu to the old gentleman , whose voice had proved so musical , and set forth for the drawing room . 
She stood a good way off below a shining lustre , her back turned . 
The bend of her waist overcame him with physical weakness . 
This was the girl wife who had lain in his arms and whom he had sworn to cherish there was she , who was better than success . 
It was Seraphina who restored him from the blow . 
She swam forward and smiled upon her husband with a sweetness that was insultingly artificial . 
'Frederic , she lisped , 'you are late . 
It was a scene of high comedy , such as is proper to unhappy marriages and her APLOMB disgusted him . 
There was no etiquette at these small drawing rooms . 
People came and went at pleasure . 
The window embrasures became the roost of happy couples at the great chimney the talkers mostly congregated , each full charged with scandal and down at the farther end the gamblers gambled . 
It was towards this point that Otto moved , not ostentatiously , but with a gentle insistence , and scattering attentions as he went . 
There she had speedily joined him . 
'You did well to call me , she said , a little wildly . 
'These cards will be my ruin . 
'Leave them , said Otto . 
'I ! she cried , and laughed 'they are my destiny . 
My only chance was to die of a consumption now I must die in a garret . 
'You are bitter to night , said Otto . 
'I have been losing , she replied . 
'You do not know what greed is . 
'I have come , then , in an evil hour , said he . 
'Ah , you wish a favour ! she cried , brightening beautifully . 
'Madam , said he , 'I am about to found my party , and I come to you for a recruit . 
'Done , said the Countess . 
'I am a man again . 
'I may be wrong , continued Otto , 'but I believe upon my heart you wish me no ill . 
'I wish you so well , she said , 'that I dare not tell it you . 
'Then if I ask my favour ? quoth the Prince . 
'Ask it , MON PRINCE , she answered . 
'Whatever it is , it is granted . 
'I wish you , he returned , 'this very night to make the farmer of our talk . 
'Heaven knows your meaning ! she exclaimed . 
'I know not , neither care there are no bounds to my desire to please you . 
'I will put it in another way , returned Otto . 
'Did you ever steal ? 'Often ! cried the Countess . 
'I have broken all the ten commandments and if there were more to morrow , I should not sleep till I had broken these . 
'This is a case of burglary to say the truth , I thought it would amuse you , said the Prince . 
'I have no practical experience , she replied , 'but O ! the good will ! I have broken a work box in my time , and several hearts , my own included . 
'They refused you the money , she said when he had done . 
'And you accepted the refusal ? Well ! 'They gave their reasons , replied Otto , colouring . 
'They were not such as I could combat and I am driven to dilapidate the funds of my own country by a theft . 
It is not dignified but it is fun . 
'Fun , she said 'yes . 
And then she remained silently plunged in thought for an appreciable time . 
'How much do you require ? she asked at length . 
'Three thousand crowns will do , he answered , 'for I have still some money of my own . 
'Excellent , she said , regaining her levity . 
'I am your true accomplice . 
And where are we to meet ? 'You know the Flying Mercury , he answered , 'in the Park ? Three pathways intersect there they have made a seat and raised the statue . 
The spot is handy and the deity congenial . 
'Child , she said , and tapped him with her fan . 
'But do you know , my Prince , you are an egoist your handy trysting place is miles from me . 
You must give me ample time I cannot , I think , possibly be there before two . 
But as the bell beats two , your helper shall arrive welcome , I trust . 
Stay do you bring any one ? she added . 
'O , it is not for a chaperon I am not a prude ! 'I shall bring a groom of mine , said Otto . 
'I caught him stealing corn . 
'His name ? she asked . 
'I profess I know not . 
I am not yet intimate with my corn stealer , returned the Prince . 
'It was in a professional capacity 'Like me ! Flatterer ! she cried . 
'But oblige me in one thing . 
Do you promise ? 'Madam , in everything you are to command you shall be captain , I am but supercargo , answered Otto . 
'Well , Heaven bring all safe to port ! she said . 
'It is not Friday ! Something in her manner had puzzled Otto , had possibly touched him with suspicion . 
'Is it not strange , he remarked , 'that I should choose my accomplice from the other camp ? 'Fool ! she said . 
'But it is your only wisdom that you know your friends . 
And suddenly , in the vantage of the deep window , she caught up his hand and kissed it with a sort of passion . 
'Now go , she added , 'go at once . 
He went , somewhat staggered , doubting in his heart that he was over bold . 
For in that moment she had flashed upon him like a jewel and even through the strong panoply of a previous love he had been conscious of a shock . 
Next moment he had dismissed the fear . 
Once more the stable was in darkness , once more Otto employed the talismanic knock , and once more the groom appeared and sickened with terror . 
'Good evening , friend , said Otto pleasantly . 
'I want you to bring a corn sack empty this time and to accompany me . 
We shall be gone all night . 
'Your Highness , groaned the man , 'I have the charge of the small stables . 
'Come , said the Prince , 'you are no such martinet in duty . 
And then seeing that the man was shaking from head to foot , Otto laid a hand upon his shoulder . 
'If I meant you harm , he said , 'should I be here ? The fellow became instantly reassured . 
Thence he proceeded alone to where , in a round clearing , a copy of Gian Bologna's Mercury stood tiptoe in the twilight of the stars . 
The night was warm and windless . 
But all around him the young trees stood mystically blurred in the dim shine and in the stock still quietness the upleaping god appeared alive . 
In this dimness and silence of the night , Otto's conscience became suddenly and staringly luminous , like the dial of a city clock . 
He averted the eyes of his mind , but the finger rapidly travelling , pointed to a series of misdeeds that took his breath away . 
What was he doing in that place ? The money had been wrongly squandered , but that was largely by his own neglect . 
And he now proposed to embarrass the finances of this country which he had been too idle to govern . 
And he now proposed to squander the money once again , and this time for a private , if a generous end . 
And the man whom he had reproved for stealing corn he was now to set stealing treasure . 
And then there was Madame von Rosen , upon whom he looked down with some of that ill favoured contempt of the chaste male for the imperfect woman . 
It was uglier than a seduction . 
'You , Countess ! cried the Prince . 
'No , no , she panted , 'the Count von Rosen my young brother . 
Let him get his breath . 
'Call me Count , she returned , 'respect my incognito . 
'Count be it , then , he replied . 
'And let me implore that gallant gentleman to set forth at once on our enterprise . 
'Sit down beside me here , she returned , patting the further corner of the bench . 
'I will follow you in a moment . 
O , I am so tired feel how my heart leaps ! Where is your thief ? 'At his post , replied Otto . 
'Shall I introduce him ? He seems an excellent companion . 
'No , she said , 'do not hurry me yet . 
I must speak to you . 
Not but I adore your thief I adore any one who has the spirit to do wrong . 
I never cared for virtue till I fell in love with my Prince . 
'And even so , it is not for your virtues , she added . 
'And now , he asked , 'if you are anyway rested ? 'Presently , presently . 
Let me breathe , she said , panting a little harder than before . 
'And what has so wearied you ? he asked . 
My dear Count , with what trash have you come laden ? But the shortest method is to see for myself . 
And he put down his hand . 
She stopped him at once . 
'Otto , she said , 'no not that way . 
I will tell , I will make a clean breast . 
I have robbed the treasury single handed . 
There are three thousand two hundred crowns . 
'You ! he said at last . 
'How ? And then drawing himself up , 'O madam , he cried , 'I understand . 
You must indeed think meanly of the Prince . 
'Well , then , it was a lie ! she cried . 
'The money is mine , honestly my own now yours . 
This was an unworthy act that you proposed . 
But I love your honour , and I swore to myself that I should save it in your teeth . 
I beg of you to let me save it' with a sudden lovely change of tone . 
'Otto , I beseech you let me save it . 
Take this dross from your poor friend who loves you ! 'Madam , madam , babbled Otto , in the extreme of misery , 'I cannot I must go . 
And he half rose but she was on the ground before him in an instant , clasping his knees . 
'No , she gasped , 'you shall not go . 
Otto , she cried , as he again feebly tried to put her from him , 'if you leave me alone in this disgrace , I will die here ! He groaned aloud . 
'O , she cried again , 'I see it ! O what a horror ! It is because I am old , because I am no longer beautiful . 
And she burst into a storm of sobs . 
This was the COUP DE GRACE . 
Otto had now to comfort and compose her as he could , and before many words , the money was accepted . 
Between the woman and the weak man such was the inevitable end . 
Madame von Rosen instantly composed her sobs . 
She thanked him with a fluttering voice , and resumed her place upon the bench , at the far end from Otto . 
'Now you see , she said , 'why I bade you keep the thief at distance , and why I came alone . 
'You have avoided a great folly . 
You will be able to meet your good old peasant . 
You have found an excellent investment for a friend's money . 
I know it is depressing to have done exactly right but you need not make a practice of it . 
Forgive yourself this virtue come now , look me in the face and smile ! He did look at her . 
The hair is touched with light the eyes are constellations the face sketched in shadows a sketch , you might say , by passion . 
Otto became consoled for his defeat he began to take an interest . 
'No , he said , 'I am no ingrate . 
'You promised me fun , she returned , with a laugh . 
'I have given you as good . 
We have had a stormy SCENA . 
He laughed in his turn , and the sound of the laughter , in either case , was hardly reassuring . 
'Come , what are you going to give me in exchange , she continued , 'for my excellent declamation ? 'What you will , he said . 
'Whatever I will ? Upon your honour ? Suppose I asked the crown ? She was flashing upon him , beautiful in triumph . 
'Upon my honour , he replied . 
'Shall I ask the crown ? she continued . 
'Nay what should I do with it ? Grunewald is but a petty state my ambition swells above it . 
I shall ask I find I want nothing , she concluded . 
'I will give you something instead . 
I will give you leave to kiss me once . 
Both drew instantly apart , and for an appreciable time sat tongue tied . 
Otto was indistinctly conscious of a peril in the silence , but could find no words to utter . 
Suddenly the Countess seemed to awake . 
'As for your wife she began in a clear and steady voice . 
The word recalled Otto , with a shudder , from his trance . 
'I will hear nothing against my wife , he cried wildly and then , recovering himself and in a kindlier tone , 'I will tell you my one secret , he added . 
'You should have let me finish , she returned , smiling . 
'Do you suppose I did not mention her on purpose ? You know you had lost your head . 
Well , so had I. Come now , do not be abashed by words , she added somewhat sharply . 
'It is the one thing I despise . 
If you are not a fool , you will see that I am building fortresses about your virtue . 
And at any rate , I choose that you shall understand that I am not dying of love for you . 
It is a very smiling business no tragedy for me ! And now here is what I have to say about your wife she is not and she never has been Gondremark's mistress . 
Be sure he would have boasted if she had . 
Good night ! And in a moment she was gone down the alley , and Otto was alone with the bag of money and the flying god . 
CHAPTER X GOTTHOLD'S REVISED OPINION AND THE FALL COMPLETED THE Countess left poor Otto with a caress and buffet simultaneously administered . 
The welcome word about his wife and the virtuous ending of his interview should doubtless have delighted him . 
But for all that , as he shouldered the bag of money and set forward to rejoin his groom , he was conscious of many aching sensibilities . 
To have gone wrong and to have been set right makes but a double trial for man's vanity . 
He was about half way between the fountain and the Flying Mercury before his thoughts began to be clear and he was surprised to find them resentful . 
He paused in a kind of temper , and struck with his hand a little shrub . 
Thence there arose instantly a cloud of awakened sparrows , which as instantly dispersed and disappeared into the thicket . 
He looked at them stupidly , and when they were gone continued staring at the stars . 
By what right ? By none ! he thought but he was still angry . 
He cursed Madame von Rosen and instantly repented . 
Heavy was the money on his shoulders . 
When he reached the fountain , he did , out of ill humour and parade , an unpardonable act . 
He gave the money bodily to the dishonest groom . 
'Keep this for me , he said , 'until I call for it to morrow . 
It is a great sum , and by that you will judge that I have not condemned you . 
And he strode away ruffling , as if he had done something generous . 
It was a desperate stroke to re enter at the point of the bayonet into his self esteem and , like all such , it was fruitless in the end . 
faithful to his trust , and arrived only a few minutes before noon in the guest chamber of the Morning Star . 
Then , indeed , he was beside himself . 
'His Highness ! he cried , 'His Highness ! and repeated the exclamation till his mind had grappled fairly with the facts . 
Then he turned to the witnesses . 
'Gentlemen , he said , 'you dwell in a country highly favoured by God for of all generous gentlemen , I will say it on my conscience , this one is the king . 
I am an old man , and I have seen good and bad , and the year of the great famine but a more excellent gentleman , no , never . 
'We know that , cried the landlord , 'we know that well in Grunewald . 
If we saw more of his Highness we should be the better pleased . 
Then it was the lawyer's turn to pay a compliment . 
'I do not know what Providence may hold in store , he said , 'but this day should be a bright one in the annals of your reign . 
The shouts of armies could not be more eloquent than the emotion on these honest faces . 
And the Brandenau lawyer bowed , skipped , stepped back , and took snuff , with the air of a man who has found and seized an opportunity . 
His conduct at the board of council occurred to him as a fair chapter and this evoked the memory of Gotthold . 
To Gotthold he would go . 
Gotthold was in the library as usual , and laid down his pen , a little angrily , on Otto's entrance . 
'Well , he said , 'here you are . 
'Well , returned Otto , 'we made a revolution , I believe . 
'It is what I fear , returned the Doctor . 
'Fear ? Fear is the burnt child . 
I have learned my strength and the weakness of the others and I now mean to govern . 
Gotthold said nothing , but he looked down and smoothed his chin . 
'You disapprove ? cried Otto . 
'You are a weather cock . 
'On the contrary , replied the Doctor . 
'My observation has confirmed my fears . 
It will not do , Otto , not do . 
'What will not do ? demanded the Prince , with a sickening stab of pain . 
'None of it , answered Gotthold . 
'You are unfitted for a life of action you lack the stamina , the habit , the restraint , the patience . 
Your wife is greatly better , vastly better and though she is in bad hands , displays a very different aptitude . 
She is a woman of affairs you are dear boy , you are yourself . 
I bid you back to your amusements like a smiling dominie , I give you holidays for life . 
Yes , he continued , 'there is a day appointed for all when they shall turn again upon their own philosophy . 
I had a sneaking kindness for your vices as they were negative , they flattered my philosophy and I called them almost virtues . 
Well , Otto , I was wrong I have forsworn my sceptical philosophy and I perceive your faults to be unpardonable . 
You are unfit to be a Prince , unfit to be a husband . 
And I give you my word , I would rather see a man capably doing evil than blundering about good . 
Otto was still silent , in extreme dudgeon . 
Presently the Doctor resumed 'I will take the smaller matter first your conduct to your wife . 
You went , I hear , and had an explanation . 
That may have been right or wrong I know not at least , you had stirred her temper . 
Can she ever forgive that ? a woman a young woman ambitious , conscious of talents beyond yours ? Never , Otto . 
And to sum all , at such a crisis in your married life , you get into a window corner with that ogling dame von Rosen . 
I do not dream that there was any harm but I do say it was an idle disrespect to your wife . 
Why , man , the woman is not decent . 
'Gotthold , said Otto , 'I will hear no evil of the Countess . 
'You will certainly hear no good of her , returned Gotthold 'and if you wish your wife to be the pink of nicety , you should clear your court of demi reputations . 
'The commonplace injustice of a by word , Otto cried . 
She is a demirep what then is Gondremark ? Were she a man 'It would be all one , retorted Gotthold roughly . 
'When I see a man , come to years of wisdom , who speaks in double meanings and is the braggart of his vices , I spit on the other side . 
You , my friend , say I , are not even a gentleman . 
Well , she's not even a lady . 
'She is the best friend I have , and I choose that she shall be respected , Otto said . 
'If she is your friend , so much the worse , replied the Doctor . 
'It will not stop there . 
'Ah ! cried Otto , 'there is the charity of virtue ! All evil in the spotted fruit . 
But I can tell you , sir , that you do Madame von Rosen prodigal injustice . 
'You can tell me ! said the Doctor shrewdly . 
'Have you , tried ? have you been riding the marches ? The blood came into Otto's face . 
'Ah ! cried Gotthold , 'look at your wife and blush ! There's a wife for a man to marry and then lose ! She's a carnation , Otto . 
The soul is in her eyes . 
'You have changed your note for Seraphina , I perceive , said Otto . 
'Changed it ! cried the Doctor , with a flush . 
'Why , when was it different ? But I own I admired her at the council . 
When she sat there silent , tapping with her foot , I admired her as I might a hurricane . 
Yes , I could desire to be that conqueror . 
'Surely you , of all men , know that I love my wife ! 'O , love ! cried Gotthold 'love is a great word it is in all the dictionaries . 
If you had loved , she would have paid you back . 
What does she ask ? A little ardour ! 'It is hard to love for two , replied the Prince . 
'Hard ? Why , there's the touchstone ! O , I know my poets ! cried the Doctor . 
Love is not love that cannot build a home . 
I was then fighting for my country , said the Prince . 
'Ay , and there's the worst of all , returned the Doctor . 
'You could not even see that you were wrong that being where they were , retreat was ruin . 
Why , you supported me ! cried Otto . 
I was a fool like you , replied Gotthold . 
'But now my eyes are open . 
If you go on as you have started , disgrace this fellow Gondremark , and publish the scandal of your divided house , there will befall a most abominable thing in Grunewald . 
A revolution , friend a revolution . 
'You speak strangely for a red , said Otto . 
'A red republican , but not a revolutionary , returned the Doctor . 
It was to buy a farm , quoth Otto sulkily . 
'To buy a farm ! cried Gotthold . 
'Buy a farm ! 'Well , what then ? returned Otto . 
'I have bought it , if you come to that . 
Gotthold fairly bounded on his seat . 
'And how that ? he cried . 
'How ? repeated Otto , startled . 
'Ay , verily , how ! returned the Doctor . 
'How came you by the money ? The Prince's countenance darkened . 
'That is my affair , said he . 
'You see you are ashamed , retorted Gotthold . 
'And so you bought a farm in the hour of our country's need doubtless to be ready for the abdication and I put it that you stole the funds . 
There are not three ways of getting money there are but two to earn and steal . 
A man may be the pitifullest prince he must be a spotless gentleman . 
The Prince had gotten to his feet , as pale as paper . 
Gotthold , he said , 'you drive me beyond bounds . 
Beware , sir , beware ! 'Do you threaten me , friend Otto ? asked the Doctor grimly . 
'That would be a strange conclusion . 
'When have you ever known me use my power in any private animosity ? cried Otto . 
'To any private man your words were an unpardonable insult , but at me you shoot in full security , and I must turn aside to compliment you on your plainness . 
I must do more than pardon , I must admire , because you have faced this this formidable monarch , like a Nathan before David . 
You have uprooted an old kindness , sir , with an unsparing hand . 
You leave me very bare . 
My last bond is broken and though I take Heaven to witness that I sought to do the right , I have this reward to find myself alone . 
You say I am no gentleman yet the sneers have been upon your side and though I can very well perceive where you have lodged your sympathies , I will forbear the taunt . 
'Otto , are you insane ? cried Gotthold , leaping up . 
'Because I ask you how you came by certain moneys , and because you refuse 'Herr von Hohenstockwitz , I have ceased to invite your aid in my affairs , said Otto . 
'I have heard all that I desire , and you have sufficiently trampled on my vanity . 
You have the satisfaction to see your sovereign weep and that person whom you have so often taunted with his happiness reduced to the last pitch of solitude and misery . 
No , I will hear nothing I claim the last word , sir , as your Prince and that last word shall be forgiveness . 
Presently , he took from a cupboard a bottle of Rhine wine and a goblet of the deep Bohemian ruby . 
'He said the truth , too , added the penitent librarian , 'for in my monkish fashion I adore the Princess . 
And then , with a still deepening flush and a certain stealth , although he sat all alone in that great gallery , he toasted Seraphina to the dregs . 
She swept downstairs and out across the garden , a black mantilla thrown over her head , and the long train of her black velvet dress ruthlessly sweeping in the dirt . 
At the other end of that long garden , and back to back with the villa of the Countess , stood the large mansion where the Prime Minister transacted his affairs and pleasures . 
In the midst of this sat the great Baron Gondremark in his shirt sleeves , his business for that day fairly at an end , and the hour arrived for relaxation . 
His expression , his very nature , seemed to have undergone a fundamental change . 
Gondremark at home appeared the very antipode of Gondremark on duty . 
He had an air of massive jollity that well became him grossness and geniality sat upon his features and along with his manners , he had laid aside his sly and sinister expression . 
He lolled there , sunning his bulk before the fire , a noble animal . 
'At last ! The Countess stepped into the room in silence , threw herself on a chair , and crossed her legs . 
'How often do you send for me ? she cried . 
'Speaking of that , said he , 'what in the devil's name were you about ? You were not home till morning . 
'I was giving alms , she said . 
The Baron again laughed loud and long , for in his shirt sleeves he was a very mirthful creature . 
'It is fortunate I am not jealous , he remarked . 
'But you know my way pleasure and liberty go hand in hand . 
I believe what I believe it is not much , but I believe it . 
Have you not read my letter ? 'No , she said 'my head ached . 
'Ah , well ! then I have news indeed ! cried Gondremark . 
I have the order all in Ratafia's hand I carry it on my heart . 
Farewell , Featherhead ! The war goes on , the girl is in my hand I have long been indispensable , but now I shall be sole . 
I have long , he added exultingly , 'long carried this intrigue upon my shoulders , like Samson with the gates of Gaza now I discharge that burthen . 
She had sprung to her feet a little paler . 
'Is this true ? she cried . 
'I tell you a fact , he asseverated . 
'I will never believe it , she said . 
'An order in her own hand ? I will never believe it , Heinrich . 
'I swear to you , said he . 
'O , what do you care for oaths or I either ? What would you swear by ? Wine , women , and song ? It is not binding , she said . 
She had come quite close up to him and laid her hand upon his arm . 
'As for the order no , Heinrich , never ! I will never believe it . 
I will die ere I believe it . 
You have some secret purpose what , I cannot guess but not one word of it is true . 
'Shall I show it you ? he asked . 
'You cannot , she answered . 
'There is no such thing . 
'Incorrigible Sadducee ! he cried . 
'Well , I will convert you you shall see the order . 
He moved to a chair where he had thrown his coat , and then drawing forth and holding out a paper , 'Read , said he . 
She took it greedily , and her eye flashed as she perused it . 
Give me the dagger , said he . 
But she whisked the paper suddenly behind her back and faced him , lowering . 
'No , no , she said . 
'You and I have first a point to settle . 
Do you suppose me blind ? She could never have given that paper but to one man , and that man her lover . 
Here you stand her lover , her accomplice , her master O , I well believe it , for I know your power . 
But what am I ? she cried 'I , whom you deceive ! 'Jealousy ! cried Gondremark . 
'Anna , I would never have believed it ! But I declare to you by all that's credible that I am not her lover . 
I might be , I suppose but I never yet durst risk the declaration . 
And I say , Anna , he added with severity , 'you must break yourself of this new fit , my girl there must be no combustion . 
'All very fine , returned the lady . 
Am I likely to care for such a preciosa ? 'Tis hard that we should have been together for so long , and you should still take me for a troubadour . 
But if there is one thing that I despise and deprecate , it is all such figures in Berlin wool . 
Give me a human woman like myself . 
You are my mate you were made for me you amuse me like the play . 
And what have I to gain that I should pretend to you ? If I do not love you , what use are you to me ? Why , none . 
It is as clear as noonday . 
'Do you love me , Heinrich ? she asked , languishing . 
'Do you truly ? 'I tell you , he cried , 'I love you next after myself . 
I should be all abroad if I had lost you . 
'Well , then , said she , folding up the paper and putting it calmly in her pocket , 'I will believe you , and I join the plot . 
At midnight , did you say ? It is Gordon , I see , that you have charged with it . 
Excellent he will stick at nothing Gondremark watched her suspiciously . 
'Why do you take the paper ? he demanded . 
'No , she returned 'I mean to keep it . 
It is I who must prepare the stroke you cannot manage it without me and to do my best I must possess the paper . 
Where shall I find Gordon ? In his rooms ? She spoke with a rather feverish self possession . 
Once , twice , and thrice . 
'Heinrich , she returned , looking him in the face , 'take care . 
I will put up with no dictation . 
Both looked dangerous and the silence lasted for a measurable interval of time . 
Then she made haste to have the first word and with a laugh that rang clear and honest , 'Do not be a child , she said . 
If your assurances are true , you can have no reason to mistrust me , nor I to play you false . 
The difficulty is to get the Prince out of the palace without scandal . 
His valets are devoted his chamberlain a slave and yet one cry might ruin all . 
'They must be overpowered , he said , following her to the new ground , 'and disappear along with him . 
'And your whole scheme along with them ! she cried . 
'He does not take his servants when he goes a hunting a child could read the truth . 
No , no the plan is idiotic it must be Ratafia's . 
You know the Prince worships me ? 'I know , he said . 
'Witch ! he said , 'there is not your match for devilry in Europe . 
Service ! the thing runs on wheels . 
'Kiss me , then , and let me go . 
I must not miss my Featherhead , she said . 
'Stay , stay , said the Baron 'not so fast . 
I wish , upon my soul , that I could trust you but you are , out and in , so whimsical a devil that I dare not . 
Hang it , Anna , no it's not possible ! 'You doubt me , Heinrich ? she cried . 
'Doubt is not the word , said he . 
'I swear to you , she cried , 'by my salvation . 
'I have no curiosity to hear you swearing , said the Baron . 
'You think that I have no religion ? You suppose me destitute of honour . 
Trust me , or fear me take your choice . 
And she offered him the paper . 
The Baron , in a great contention of mind , stood irresolute , weighing the two dangers . 
Once his hand advanced , then dropped . 
'Well , he said , 'since trust is what you call it . 
'No more , she interrupted , 'Do not spoil your attitude . 
And now since you have behaved like a good sort of fellow in the dark , I will condescend to tell you why . 
And now , she cried , 'your Vivien goes . 
Dub me your knight ! And she held out her arms and smiled upon him radiant . 
'Well , he said , when he had kissed her , 'every man must have his folly I thank God mine is no worse . 
Off with you ! I have given a child a squib . 
CHAPTER XII PROVIDENCE VON ROSEN ACT THE SECOND SHE INFORMS THE PRINCE IT was the first impulse of Madame von Rosen to return to her own villa and revise her toilette . 
Whatever else should come of this adventure , it was her firm design to pay a visit to the Princess . 
And before that woman , so little beloved , the Countess would appear at no disadvantage . 
It was the work of minutes . 
'That will do , she said . 
'Bid my carriage follow me to the palace . 
In half an hour it should be there in waiting . 
The night was beginning to fall and the shops to shine with lamps along the tree beshadowed thorough fares of Otto's capital , when the Countess started on her high emprise . 
She was jocund at heart pleasure and interest had winged her beauty , and she knew it . 
What was she to do ? She held the paper by which all depended . 
The vertigo of omnipotence , the disease of Caesars , shook her reason . 
'O the mad world ! she thought , and laughed aloud in exultation . 
A child , finger in mouth , had paused a little way from where she sat , and stared with cloudy interest upon this laughing lady . 
She called it nearer but the child hung back . 
'If you had a clay bear and a china monkey , asked Von Rosen , 'which would you prefer to break ? 'But I have neither , said the child . 
'Which shall I break ? she wondered and she passed her hand with delight among the careful disarrangement of her locks . 
'Which ? and she consulted heaven with her bright eyes . 
'Do I love both or neither ? A little passionately not at all ? Both or neither both , I believe but at least I will make hay of Ratafia . 
A few withered tracks of sunset , amber and glow worm green , still lingered in the western sky and she paused once again to watch them fading . 
'How does it feel to be deserted ? she thought . 
'Poor dear fool ! The girl deserves that he should see this order . 
Without more delay , she passed into the palace and asked for an audience of Prince Otto . 
The Prince , she was told , was in his own apartment , and desired to be private . 
A man presently returned with word that the Prince tendered his apologies , but could see no one . 
'Then I will write , she said , and scribbled a few lines alleging urgency of life and death . 
'Help me , my Prince , she added 'none but you can help me . 
This time the messenger returned more speedily , and begged the Countess to follow him the Prince was graciously pleased to receive the Frau Grafin von Rosen . 
Otto sat by the fire in his large armoury , weapons faintly glittering all about him in the changeful light . 
His face was disfigured by the marks of weeping he looked sour and sad nor did he rise to greet his visitor , but bowed , and bade the man begone . 
'Madame von Rosen , replied Otto dully , 'you have used strong words . 
You speak of life and death . 
Can you not guess the rest ? And then , as he maintained his silence 'You ! she cried , pointing at him with her finger . 
Tis you they threaten ! Your rascal and mine have laid their heads together and condemned you . 
But they reckoned without you and me . 
We make a PARTIE CARREE , Prince , in love and politics . 
They lead an ace , but we shall trump it . 
Come , partner , shall I draw my card ? 'Madam , he said , 'explain yourself . 
Indeed I fail to comprehend . 
'See , then , said she and handed him the order . 
He took it , looked upon it with a start and then , still without speech , he put his hand before his face . 
She waited for a word in vain . 
After the league of the lions , let us have a conspiracy of mice , and pull this piece of machinery to ground . 
You were brisk enough last night when nothing was at stake and all was frolic . 
Well , here is better sport here is life indeed . 
He got to his feet with some alacrity , and his face , which was a little flushed , bore the marks of resolution . 
'Madame von Rosen , said he , 'I am neither unconscious nor ungrateful this is the true continuation of your friendship but I see that I must disappoint your expectations . 
I have no party , no policy no pride , nor anything to be proud of . 
I would at least avoid a scandal . 
'You go ? of your own will , you go ? she cried . 
'I cannot say so much , perhaps , he answered 'but I go with good alacrity . 
He flicked the order on the table . 
'You may signify my readiness , he added grandly . 
'Ah , she said , 'you are more angry than you own . 
'I , madam ? angry ? he cried . 
'You rave ! I have no cause for anger . 
In every way I have been taught my weakness , my instability , and my unfitness for the world . 
I am a plexus of weaknesses , an impotent Prince , a doubtful gentleman and you yourself , indulgent as you are , have twice reproved my levity . 
And shall I be angry ? I may feel the unkindness , but I have sufficient honesty of mind to see the reasons of this COUP D'ETAT . 
'From whom have you got this ? she cried in wonder . 
'You think you have not behaved well ? My Prince , were you not young and handsome , I should detest you for your virtues . 
You push them to the verge of commonplace . 
And this ingratitude 'Understand me , Madame von Rosen , returned the Prince , flushing a little darker , 'there can be here no talk of gratitude , none of pride . 
You are here , by what circumstance I know not , but doubtless led by your kindness , mixed up in what regards my family alone . 
You have no knowledge what my wife , your sovereign , may have suffered it is not for you no , nor for me to judge . 
I own myself in fault and were it otherwise , a man were a very empty boaster who should talk of love and start before a small humiliation . 
'Heaven knows I think as much of love as any one my life would prove it but I admit no love , at least for a man , that is not equally returned . 
'I think of love more absolutely , madam , though I am certain no more tenderly , than a lady to whom I am indebted for such kindnesses , returned the Prince . 
We are not here to hold a court of troubadours . 
'Still , she replied , 'there is one thing you forget . 
If she conspires with Gondremark against your liberty , she may conspire with him against your honour also . 
'My honour ? he repeated . 
'For a woman , you surprise me . 
I am become a stranger . 
I should have trembled , but still hoped and asked for her forgiveness and yet mine had been a treason in the teeth of love . 
She is free the man has been found wanting . 
'Because she loves you not ? the Countess cried . 
'You know she is incapable of such a feeling . 
'Rather , it was I who was born incapable of inspiring it , said Otto . 
Madame von Rosen broke into sudden laughter . 
'Fool , she cried , 'I am in love with you myself ! 'Ah , madam , you are most compassionate , the Prince retorted , smiling . 
'But this is waste debate . 
Perhaps , to equal you in frankness , I know and embrace my advantage . 
I am not without the spirit of adventure . 
'I own , with a bare face , I am the gainer . 
Go , you take my heart with you , or more of it than I desire I shall not sleep at night for thinking of your misery . 
But do not be afraid I would not spoil you , you are such a fool and hero . 
'Alas ! madam , cried the Prince , 'and your unlucky money ! I did amiss to take it , but you are a wonderful persuader . 
And I thank God , I can still offer you the fair equivalent . 
He took some papers from the chimney . 
You made the loan without formality , obeying your kind heart . 
If I may look for any pleasure in the coming time , it will be to remember that the peasant is secure , and my most generous friend no loser . 
'Do you not understand my odious position ? cried the Countess . 
'Dear Prince , it is upon your fall that I begin my fortune . 
'It was the more like you to tempt me to resistance , returned Otto . 
'But this cannot alter our relations and I must , for the last time , lay my commands upon you in the character of Prince . 
And with his loftiest dignity , he forced the deeds on her acceptance . 
'I hate the very touch of them , she cried . 
There followed upon this a little silence . 
am I to be arrested ? 'Your Highness , when you please ! exclaimed the Countess . 
'Or , if you choose to tear that paper , never ! 'I would rather it were done quickly , said the Prince . 
'I shall take but time to leave a letter for the Princess . 
I offered' she hesitated 'I offered to manage it , intending , my dear friend intending , upon my soul , to be of use to you . 
It will be none the worse for you and to make it quite plain , it will be better for the rest of us . 
'Dear madam , certainly , said Otto . 
'If I am prepared for the chief evil , I shall not quarrel with details . 
Go , then , with my best gratitude and when I have written a few lines of leave taking , I shall immediately hasten to keep tryst . 
To night I shall not meet so dangerous a cavalier , he added , with a smiling gallantry . 
As soon as Madame von Rosen was gone , he made a great call upon his self command . 
He was face to face with a miserable passage where , if it were possible , he desired to carry himself with dignity . 
Here was , at least , a step which he thought blameless here was a way out of his troubles . 
He sat down to write to Seraphina and his anger blazed . 
The tale of his forbearances mounted , in his eyes , to something monstrous still more monstrous , the coldness , egoism , and cruelty that had required and thus requited them . 
The pen which he had taken shook in his hand . 
He was amazed to find his resignation fled , but it was gone beyond his recall . 
He took that private passage which he had trodden so often in less momentous hours . 
The porter let him out and the bountiful , cold air of the night and the pure glory of the stars received him on the threshold . 
He looked round him , breathing deep of earth's plain fragrance he looked up into the great array of heaven , and was quieted . 
stand like a speck under the cool cupola of the night . 
'Well , I forgive her , he said . 
'If it be of any use to her , I forgive . 
And with brisk steps he crossed the garden , issued upon the Park , and came to the Flying Mercury . 
A dark figure moved forward from the shadow of the pedestal . 
'Herr Gordon , I believe ? said Otto . 
'Herr Oberst Gordon , replied that officer . 
'This is rather a ticklish business for a man to be embarked in and to find that all is to go pleasantly is a great relief to me . 
'A most philosophical remark , returned the Colonel . 
'Begad , a very pertinent remark ! it might be Plutarch . 
I am not a drop's blood to your Highness , or indeed to any one in this principality or else I should dislike my orders . 
For a gaoler is only a fellow captive . 
'My pay is , in the meanwhile , doubled . 
'Well , sir , I will not presume to criticise , returned the Prince . 
'And I perceive the carriage . 
Sure enough , at the intersection of two alleys of the Park , a coach and four , conspicuous by its lanterns , stood in waiting . 
And a little way off about a score of lancers were drawn up under the shadow of the trees . 
The Colonel gave her his arm , and the talk between this pair of conspirators ran high and lively . 
The Countess , indeed , was in a whirl of pleasure and excitement her tongue stumbled upon laughter , her eyes shone , the colour that was usually wanting now perfected her face . 
It would have taken little more to bring Gordon to her feet or so , at least , she believed , disdaining the idea . 
Hidden among some lilac bushes , she enjoyed the great decorum of the arrest , and heard the dialogue of the two men die away along the path . 
Soon after , the rolling of a carriage and the beat of hoofs arose in the still air of the night , and passed speedily farther and fainter into silence . 
Madame von Rosen consulted her watch . 
As the Countess von Rosen unqualified , she was sure to be refused but as an emissary of the Baron's , for so she chose to style herself , she gained immediate entry . 
The Princess sat alone at table , making a feint of dining . 
Her cheeks were mottled , her eyes heavy she had neither slept nor eaten even her dress had been neglected . 
In short , she was out of health , out of looks , out of heart , and hag ridden by her conscience . 
The Countess drew a swift comparison , and shone brighter in beauty . 
'You come , madam , DE LA PART DE MONSIEUR LE BARON , drawled the Princess . 
For I am like St . 
Paul , your Highness , and always wish to do the things I should not . 
Well ! to be categorical that is the word ? I took the Prince your order . 
He could not credit his senses . 
Ah , he cried dear Madame von Rosen , it is not possible it cannot be I must hear it from your lips . 
My wife is a poor girl misled , she is only silly , she is not cruel . 
MON PRINCE , said I , a girl and therefore cruel youth kills flies . 
'O , madam , I believe you understand me very well , returned von Rosen . 
'I have not your philosophy . 
'While you sat there dining ! cried the Countess , still nonchalantly seated . 
'You have discharged your errand , was the reply 'I will not detain you . 
'O no , madam , said the Countess , 'with your permission , I have not yet done . 
I have borne much this evening in your service . 
I was made to suffer in your service . 
She unfolded her fan as she spoke . 
Quick as her pulses beat , the fan waved languidly . 
She betrayed her emotion only by the brightness of her eyes and face , and by the almost insolent triumph with which she looked down upon the Princess . 
There were old scores of rivalry between them in more than one field so at least von Rosen felt and now she was to have her hour of victory in them all . 
'You are no servant , Madame von Rosen , of mine , said Seraphina . 
Your conduct is so light so light , she repeated , the fan wavering higher like a butterfly , 'that perhaps you do not truly understand . 
The Countess rolled her fan together , laid it in her lap , and rose to a less languorous position . 
'Indeed , she continued , 'I should be sorry to see any young woman in your situation . 
And she once more unfurled the fan , and approvingly fanned herself . 
'I will no longer permit you to forget yourself , cried Seraphina . 
'I think you are mad . 
'Not mad , returned von Rosen . 
'Sane enough to know you dare not break with me to night , and to profit by the knowledge . 
I left my poor , pretty Prince Charming crying his eyes out for a wooden doll . 
O , you immature fool ! the Countess cried , rising to her feet , and pointing at the Princess the closed fan that now began to tremble in her hand . 
'O wooden doll ! she cried , 'have you a heart , or blood , of any nature ? This is a man , child a man who loves you . 
O , it will not happen twice ! it is not common beautiful and clever women look in vain for it . 
She paused and laughed a little , strangely to hear and look upon . 
'I will tell you one of the things , she said , 'that were to stay unspoken . 
I tell you I am quite frank I put the order in his power and begged him to resist . 
You , who have betrayed your husband , may betray me to Gondremark my Prince would betray no one . 
The Princess spoke with some distress . 
I will condescend to tell you . 
It was with deep regret that I was driven to this step . 
I admire in many ways the Prince I admit his amiability . 
As a private person I should think as you do . 
It is difficult , I know , to make allowances for state considerations . 
Many in my situation would have resented your freedoms . 
I am not' and she looked for a moment rather piteously upon the Countess 'I am not altogether so inhuman as you think . 
'I have learned , madam , although still so young , in a hard school , that my own feelings must everywhere come last . 
'O callow innocence ! exclaimed the other . 
And though I hate all women come , for the common folly , I forgive you . 
O what a French comedy ! You betray , I betray , they betray . 
It is now my cue . 
'I cannot look at it till you have , returned Seraphina , very seriously . 
'There may be matter there not meant for me to see it is a private letter . 
Ratafia has done the deed , her husband is to be packed to prison . 
This puts the minx entirely in my power LE TOUR EST JOUE she will now go steady in harness , or I will know the reason why . 
'Command yourself , madam , said the Countess , watching with some alarm the white face of Seraphina . 
'It is in vain for you to fight with Gondremark he has more strings than mere court favour , and could bring you down to morrow with a word . 
I would not have betrayed him otherwise but Heinrich is a man , and plays with all of you like marionnettes . 
And now at least you see for what you sacrificed my Prince . 
Madam , will you take some wine ? I have been cruel . 
'Not cruel , madam salutary , said Seraphina , with a phantom smile . 
'No , I thank you , I require no attentions . 
The first surprise affected me will you give me time a little ? I must think . 
She took her head between her hands , and contemplated for a while the hurricane confusion of her thoughts . 
'This information reaches me , she said , 'when I have need of it . 
I would not do as you have done , but yet I thank you . 
I have been much deceived in Baron Gondremark . 
'O , madam , leave Gondremark , and think upon the Prince ! cried von Rosen . 
'You speak once more as a private person , said the Princess 'nor do I blame you . 
But my own thoughts are more distracted . 
Give me the ink dish . 
There ! And she wrote hastily , steadying her arm upon the table , for she trembled like a reed . 
The suddenness has shaken me . 
And O , I had forgotten , he has left a letter . 
Suffer me , madam , I will bring it you . 
This is the door , I think ? And she sought to open it . 
'The bolt is pushed , said Seraphina , flushing . 
'O ! O ! cried the Countess . 
A silence fell between them . 
'I will get it for myself , said Seraphina 'and in the meanwhile I beg you to leave me . 
I thank you , I am sure , but I shall be obliged if you will leave me . 
The Countess deeply curtseyed , and withdrew . 
The four corners of her universe had fallen . 
Light and darkness succeeded each other in her brain now she believed , and now she could not . 
She turned , blindly groping for the note . 
The thought recalled to Seraphina the remembrance of the other letter Otto's . 
She rose and went speedily , her brain still wheeling , and burst into the Prince's armoury . 
on her distress , struck Seraphina into childish anger . 
'Go ! she cried and then , when the old man was already half way to the door , 'Stay ! she added . 
'As soon as Baron Gondremark arrives , let him attend me here . 
'It shall be so directed , said the chamberlain . 
she began , and paused . 
'Her Highness , said the chamberlain , 'will , find a letter on the table . 
I had received no orders , or her Highness had been spared this trouble . 
'No , no , no , she cried . 
I desire to be alone . 
And then , when he was gone , she leaped upon the letter . 
Her mind was still obscured like the moon upon a night of clouds and wind , her reason shone and was darkened , and she read the words by flashes . 
'Seraphina , the Prince wrote , 'I will write no syllable of reproach . 
I have seen your order , and I go . 
What else is left me ? I have wasted my love , and have no more . 
This is the last that you will hear of me in love or anger . 
How you have requited him , your own heart more loudly tells you than my words . 
There is a day coming when your vain dreams will roll away like clouds , and you will find yourself alone . 
Then you will remember OTTO . 
She read with a great horror on her mind that day , of which he wrote , was come . 
She was alone she had been false , she had been cruel remorse rolled in upon her and then with a more piercing note , vanity bounded on the stage of consciousness . 
She recalled the scandal she had so royally braved and alas ! she had now no courage to confront it with . 
To be thought the mistress of that man perhaps for that . 
She closed her eyes on agonising vistas . 
Swift as thought she had snatched a bright dagger from the weapons that shone along the wall . 
Ay , she would escape . 
From that world wide theatre of nodding heads and buzzing whisperers , in which she now beheld herself unpitiably martyred , one door stood open . 
At any cost , through any stress of suffering , that greasy laughter should be stifled . 
She closed her eyes , breathed a wordless prayer , and pressed the weapon to her bosom . 
At the astonishing sharpness of the prick , she gave a cry and awoke to a sense of undeserved escape . 
She concealed the dagger in the folds of her skirt and drawing her stature up , she stood firm footed , radiant with anger , waiting for the foe . 
The Baron was announced , and entered . 
He noted both with joy they were means . 
'If I have to play the lover , thought he , for that was his constant preoccupation , 'I believe I can put soul into it . 
Meanwhile , with his usual ponderous grace , he bent before the lady . 
'I propose , she said in a strange voice , not known to her till then , 'that we release the Prince and do not prosecute the war . 
I can only command I am the frowner . 
But you ! And you have the fortitude to command these comely weaknesses , to tread them down at the call of reason . 
'But now , madam 'But now , Herr von Gondremark , the time for these declarations has gone by , she cried . 
'Are you true to me ? are you false ? Look in your heart and answer it is your heart I want to know . 
'It has come , thought Gondremark . 
'You , madam ! he cried , starting back with fear , you would have said , and yet a timid joy . 
'Ah , madam ! he cried , plumping on his knees . 
His words offended her to sickness his appearance , as he grovelled bulkily upon the floor , moved her to such laughter as we laugh in nightmares . 
'O shame ! she cried . 
His vanity , within his iron bosom , bled and raved . 
'Ah , said he , 'the Countess ? Now I perceive the reason of your Highness's disorder . 
The lackey like insolence of the words was driven home by a more insolent manner . 
The next moment , with oaths that she had never heard , he leaped at her in savage passion clutched her as she recoiled and in the very act , stumbled and drooped . 
She had scarce time to fear his murderous onslaught ere he fell before her feet . 
He rose upon one elbow she still staring upon him , white with horror . 
'Anna ! he cried , 'Anna ! Help ! And then his utterance failed him , and he fell back , to all appearance dead . 
Seraphina ran to and fro in the room she wrung her hands and cried aloud within she was all one uproar of terror , and conscious of no articulate wish but to awake . 
At this success a certain calm fell upon her reason . 
She went back and looked upon her victim , the knocking growing louder . 
O yes , he was dead . 
He had called upon von Rosen with his latest breath ah ! who would call on Seraphina ? She had killed him . 
She , whose irresolute hand could scarce prick blood from her own bosom , had found strength to cast down that great colossus at a blow . 
All this while the knocking was growing more uproarious and more unlike the staid career of life in such a palace . 
He or another , somebody must be the first . 
'Is Herr von Greisengesang without ? she called . 
'Your Highness yes ! the old gentleman answered . 
'We have heard cries , a fall . 
Is anything amiss ? 'Nothing , replied Seraphina 'I desire to speak with you . 
She panted between each phrase but her mind was clear . 
Greisengesang clumsily revolved among the wings of the curtain , so that she was clear of it as soon as he . 
'My God ! he cried 'The Baron ! 'I have killed him , she said . 
'O , killed him ! 'Dear me , said the old gentleman , 'this is most unprecedented . 
Lovers' quarrels , he added ruefully , 'redintegratio and then paused . 
'See if he be dead , she said not one word of explanation or defence she had scorned to justify herself before so poor a creature 'See if he be dead' was all . 
With the greatest compunction , the Chancellor drew near and as he did so the wounded Baron rolled his eyes . 
'He lives , cried the old courtier , turning effusively to Seraphina . 
'Madam , he still lives . 
'Help him , then , returned the Princess , standing fixed . 
'Madam , I have no means , protested the Chancellor . 
'Take that , she said , and for the first time directly faced Greisengesang . 
But the Chancellor held up his hands and turned away his head in agony . 
Greisengesang turned in a flutter to the Baron , and attempted some innocent and bungling measures . 
'He still breathes , he kept saying . 
'All is not yet over he is not yet gone . 
'And now , said she 'if that is all you can do , begone and get some porters he must instantly go home . 
'Madam , cried the Chancellor , 'if this most melancholy sight were seen in town O dear , the State would fall ! he piped . 
'There is a litter in the Palace , she replied . 
'It is your part to see him safe . 
I lay commands upon you . 
On your life it stands . 
'I see it , dear Highness , he jerked . 
But how ? what men ? The Prince's servants yes . 
They had a personal affection . 
They will be true , if any . 
'O , not them ! she cried . 
'Take Sabra , my own man . 
'Sabra ! The grand mason ? returned the Chancellor , aghast . 
'If he but saw this , he would sound the tocsin we should all be butchered . 
She measured the depth of her abasement steadily . 
'Take whom you must , she said , 'and bring the litter here . 
Once she was alone she ran to the Baron , and with a sickening heart sought to allay the flux of blood . 
But it was not thus with Seraphina . 
Her victim , as he lay outspread , twitching a little , his big chest unbared , fixed her with his ugliness and her mind flitted for a glimpse to Otto . 
It was the Chancellor , followed by four of Otto's valets and a litter . 
The servants , when they were admitted , stared at the dishevelled Princess and the wounded man speech was denied them , but their thoughts were riddled with profanity . 
Gondremark was bundled in the curtains of the litter were lowered the bearers carried it forth , and the Chancellor followed behind with a white face . 
Seraphina ran to the window . 
Presently the small procession issued from the Palace , crossed the parade , and began to thread the glittering alley the swinging couch with its four porters , the much pondering Chancellor behind . 
She watched them dwindle with strange thoughts her eyes fixed upon the scene , her mind still glancing right and left on the overthrow of her life and hopes . 
There was no one left in whom she might confide none whose hand was friendly , or on whom she dared to reckon for the barest loyalty . 
With the fall of Gondremark , her party , her brief popularity , had fallen . 
So she sat crouched upon the window seat , her brow to the cool pane her dress in tatters , barely shielding her her mind revolving bitter thoughts . 
Meanwhile , consequences were fast mounting and in the deceptive quiet of the night , downfall and red revolt were brewing . 
The litter had passed forth between the iron gates and entered on the streets of the town . 
And now through the midst of that expectant company , the unusual sight of a closed litter was observed approaching , and trotting hard behind it that great dignitary Cancellarius Greisengesang . 
Silence looked on as it went by and as soon as it was passed , the whispering seethed over like a boiling pot . 
The knots were sundered and gradually , one following another , the whole mob began to form into a procession and escort the curtained litter . 
Soon spokesmen , a little bolder than their mates , began to ply the Chancellor with questions . 
Never had he more need of that great art of falsehood , by whose exercise he had so richly lived . 
And yet now he stumbled , the master passion , fear , betraying him . 
He was pressed he became incoherent and then from the jolting litter came a groan . 
This shall atone for many sins . 
He plucked a bearer by the sleeve . 
All is lost , he whispered . 
And the next moment he was babbling for his life among the multitude . 
Five minutes later the wild eyed servant burst into the armoury . 
'All is lost ! he cried . 
'The Chancellor bids you flee . 
And at the same time , looking through the window , Seraphina saw the black rush of the populace begin to invade the lamplit avenue . 
'Thank you , Georg , she said . 
And as the man still lingered , 'I bid you go , she added . 
Down by the private passage , and just some two hours later , Amalia Seraphina , the last Princess , followed Otto Johann Friedrich , the last Prince of Grunewald . 
A bugle sounded at the door of the guard room one gun was fired and then with the yell of hundreds , Mittwalden Palace was carried at a rush . 
But the slope of the ground was upward , and encouraged her and presently she issued on a rocky hill that stood forth above the sea of forest . 
There sat the Princess , beautifully looking upon beauty , in council with these glad advisers . 
She looked towards Mittwalden and above the hill top , which already hid it from her view , a throbbing redness hinted of fire . 
She had but one clear idea to flee and another , obscure and half rejected , although still obeyed to flee in the direction of the Felsenburg . 
She rose , with a start of recollection , and plunged down the slope into the covert . 
The woods received and closed upon her . 
Once more , she wandered and hasted in a blot , uncheered , unpiloted . 
And betweenwhiles , the unfeatured darkness would redouble and the whole ear of night appear to be gloating on her steps . 
And presently the whole wood rocked and began to run along with her . 
The noise of her own mad passage through the silence spread and echoed , and filled the night with terror . 
Panic hunted her Panic from the trees reached forth with clutching branches the darkness was lit up and peopled with strange forms and faces . 
She strangled and fled before her fears . 
And yet in the last fortress , reason , blown upon by these gusts of terror , still shone with a troubled light . 
She knew , yet could not act upon her knowledge she knew that she must stop , and yet she still ran . 
She was already near madness , when she broke suddenly into a narrow clearing . 
At the same time the din grew louder , and she became conscious of vague forms and fields of whiteness . 
And with that the earth gave way she fell and found her feet again with an incredible shock to her senses , and her mind was swallowed up . 
The spray had wet her hair . 
In the face of her proved weakness , to adventure again upon the horror of blackness in the groves were a suicide of life or reason . 
This was the girl's first night under the naked heaven and now that her fears were overpast , she was touched to the soul by its serene amenity and peace . 
Kindly the host of heaven blinked down upon that wandering Princess and the honest brook had no words but to encourage her . 
At last she began to be aware of a wonderful revolution , compared to which the fire of Mittwalden Palace was but the crack and flash of a percussion cap . 
And this slow transfiguration reached her heart , and played upon it , and transpierced it with a serious thrill . 
She looked all about the whole face of nature looked back , brimful of meaning , finger on lip , leaking its glad secret . 
Heaven was almost emptied of stars . 
Such as still lingered shone with a changed and waning brightness , and began to faint in their stations . 
Her heart melted and flowed forth to them in kindness . 
Soon she had struggled to a certain hill top , and saw far before her the silent inflooding of the day . 
Out of the East it welled and whitened the darkness trembled into light and the stars were extinguished like the street lamps of a human city . 
The whiteness brightened into silver , the silver warmed into gold , the gold kindled into pure and living fire and the face of the East was barred with elemental scarlet . 
The day drew its first long breath , steady and chill and for leagues around the woods sighed and shivered . 
And then , at one bound , the sun had floated up and her startled eyes received day's first arrow , and quailed under the buffet . 
On every side , the shadows leaped from their ambush and fell prone . 
The day was come , plain and garish and up the steep and solitary eastern heaven , the sun , victorious over his competitors , continued slowly and royally to mount . 
Seraphina drooped for a little , leaning on a pine , the shrill joy of the woodlands mocking her . 
Some way off among the lower woods , a pillar of smoke was mounting and melting in the gold and blue . 
There , surely enough , were human folk , the hearth surrounders . 
At the thought , she felt a cold and little and lost in that great out of doors . 
The electric shock of the young sun beams and the unhuman beauty of the woods began to irk and daunt her . 
She left day upon the high ground . 
In the lower groves there still lingered the blue early twilight and the seizing freshness of the dew . 
Here Seraphina hastened along forest paths . 
She had lost sight of the pilot smoke , which blew another way , and conducted herself in that great wilderness by the direction of the sun . 
But presently fresh signs bespoke the neighbourhood of man felled trunks , white slivers from the axe , bundles of green boughs , and stacks of firewood . 
These guided her forward until she came forth at last upon the clearing whence the smoke arose . 
At that ambiguous hour , and coming as she did from the great silence of the forest , the man drew back from the Princess as from something elfin . 
'I am cold , she said , 'and weary . 
Let me rest beside your fire . 
The woodman was visibly commoved , but answered nothing . 
'I will pay , she said , and then repented of the words , catching perhaps a spark of terror from his frightened eyes . 
But , as usual , her courage rekindled brighter for the check . 
She put him from the door and entered and he followed her in superstitious wonder . 
The very sight of it composed her she crouched hard by on the earth floor and shivered in the glow , and looked upon the eating blaze with admiration . 
The woodman was still staring at his guest at the wreck of the rich dress , the bare arms , the bedraggled laces and the gems . 
He found no word to utter . 
'Give me food , said she , 'here , by the fire . 
He set down a pitcher of coarse wine , bread , a piece of cheese , and a handful of raw onions . 
But she ate , if not with appetite , with courage and when she had eaten , did not disdain the pitcher . 
In all her life before , she had not tasted of gross food nor drunk after another but a brave woman far more readily accepts a change of circumstances than the bravest man . 
All that while , the woodman continued to observe her furtively , many low thoughts of fear and greed contending in his eyes . 
She read them clearly , and she knew she must begone . 
Presently she arose and offered him a florin . 
'Will that repay you ? she asked . 
But here the man found his tongue . 
'I must have more than that , said he . 
'It is all I have to give you , she returned , and passed him by serenely . 
Yet her heart trembled , for she saw his hand stretched forth as if to arrest her , and his unsteady eyes wandering to his axe . 
A beaten path led westward from the clearing , and she swiftly followed it . 
She did not glance behind her . 
But as soon as the least turning of the path had concealed her from the woodman's eyes , she slipped among the trees and ran till she deemed herself in safety . 
Now she followed wandering wood paths , in the maze of valleys and again , from a hill top , beheld the distant mountains and the great birds circling under the sky . 
She would see afar off a nestling hamlet , and go round to avoid it . 
Below , she traced the course of the foam of mountain torrents . 
At length , when she was well weary , she came upon a wide and shallow pool . 
She crept to the margin and beheld herself with wonder , a hollow and bright eyed phantom , in the ruins of her palace robe . 
The breeze now shook her image now it would be marred with flies and at that she smiled and from the fading circles , her counterpart smiled back to her and looked kind . 
She shook it round her face , and the pool repeated her thus veiled . 
The laugh was returned upon her in a childish echo . 
She looked up and lo ! two children looking on , a small girl and a yet smaller boy , standing , like playthings , by the pool , below a spreading pine . 
Seraphina was not fond of children , and now she was startled to the heart . 
'Who are you ? she cried hoarsely . 
The mites huddled together and drew back and Seraphina's heart reproached her that she should have frightened things so quaint and little , and yet alive with senses . 
She thought upon the birds and looked again at her two visitors so little larger and so far more innocent . 
On their clear faces , as in a pool , she saw the reflection of their fears . 
With gracious purpose she arose . 
'Come , she said , 'do not be afraid of me , and took a step towards them . 
But alas ! at the first moment , the two poor babes in the wood turned and ran helter skelter from the Princess . 
The most desolate pang was struck into the girl's heart . 
Hastily she trod the thoughts out like a burning paper hastily rolled up her locks , and with terror dogging her , and her whole bosom sick with grief , resumed her journey . 
Sleep closed on her , at first with a horror of fainting , but when she ceased to struggle , kindly embracing her . 
So she was taken home for a little , from all her toils and sorrows , to her Father's arms . 
The voice of the wheels was still faint , and it was plain the traveller had far outstripped his carriage . 
He had drawn very near to where the Princess lay asleep , before his eye alighted on her but when it did he started , pocketed his note book , and approached . 
There was a milestone close to where she lay and he sat down on that and coolly studied her . 
She lay upon one side , all curled and sunken , her brow on one bare arm , the other stretched out , limp and dimpled . 
Her young body , like a thing thrown down , had scarce a mark of life . 
Her breathing stirred her not . 
The deadliest fatigue was thus confessed in every language of the sleeping flesh . 
'Upon my word , he thought , 'I did not think the girl could be so pretty . 
'I trust your Highness has slept well , he said , nodding . 
But she only uttered sounds . 
'Compose yourself , said he , giving her certainly a brave example in his own demeanour . 
'My chaise is close at hand and I shall have , I trust , the singular entertainment of abducting a sovereign Princess . 
'Sir John ! she said , at last . 
'At your Highness's disposal , he replied . 
She sprang to her feet . 
I took his news this morning ere I left . 
Doing fairly well , they said , but suffering acutely . 
They could hear his groans in the next room . 
'Sir John , she said eagerly , 'you were generous enough to speak about your carriage . 
Will you , I beseech you , will you take me to the Felsenburg ? I have business there of an extreme importance . 
'I can refuse you nothing , replied the old gentleman , gravely and seriously enough . 
'Whatever , madam , it is in my power to do for you , that shall be done with pleasure . 
As soon as my chaise shall overtake us , it is yours to carry you where you will . 
But , added he , reverting to his former manner , 'I observe you ask me nothing of the Palace . 
'I do not care , she said . 
'I thought I saw it burning . 
'Prodigious ! said the Baronet . 
'You thought ? And can the loss of forty toilettes leave you cold ? Well , madam , I admire your fortitude . 
But in these convulsions the last shall be first , and the first last . 
'Sir John , she said , with an air of perfect honesty , 'I am sure you mean most kindly , but these matters have no interest for me . 
produced fruits and truffled liver , beautiful white bread , and a bottle of delicate wine . 
Indeed his kindness seemed so genuine that Seraphina was moved to gratitude . 
'They told me you wrote cruelly of both of us . 
'Such was the strange path by which we grew acquainted , said Sir John . 
Your husband set me at liberty , gave me a passport , ordered a carriage , and then , with the most boyish spirit , challenged me to fight . 
Knowing the nature of his married life , I thought the dash and loyalty he showed delightful . 
Do not be afraid , says he if I am killed , there is nobody to miss me . 
It appears you subsequently thought of that yourself . 
I explained to him it was impossible that I could fight ! Not if I strike you ? says he . 
Very droll I wish I could have put it in my book . 
However , I was conquered , took the young gentleman to my high favour , and tore up my bits of scandal on the spot . 
That is one of the little favours , madam , that you owe your husband . 
Seraphina sat for some while in silence . 
To Sir John , however , after what he had said , and as her husband's friend , she was prepared to stoop . 
'What do you think of me ? she asked abruptly . 
'I have told you already , said Sir John 'I think you want another glass of my good wine . 
'Come , she said , 'this is unlike you . 
You are not wont to be afraid . 
You say that you admire my husband in his name , be honest . 
'I admire your courage , said the Baronet . 
'Beyond that , as you have guessed , and indeed said , our natures are not sympathetic . 
'You spoke of scandal , pursued Seraphina . 
'Was the scandal great ? 'It was considerable , said Sir John . 
'And you believed it ? she demanded . 
'O , madam , said Sir John , 'the question ! 'Thank you for that answer ! cried Seraphina . 
'We should probably not agree upon a definition , observed Sir John . 
'O ! she cried , 'I have abominably used him I know that it is not that I mean . 
But if you admire my husband , I insist that you shall understand me I can look him in the face without a blush . 
'It may be , madam , said Sir John 'nor have I presumed to think the contrary . 
'You will not believe me ? she cried . 
'But you will not acquit me ! Ah ! she cried , 'HE will he knows me better ! Sir John smiled . 
'You smile at my distress ? asked Seraphina . 
'At your woman's coolness , said Sir John . 
'A man would scarce have had the courage of that cry , which was , for all that , very natural , and I make no doubt quite true . 
But remark , madam since you do me the honour to consult me gravely I have no pity for what you call your distresses . 
You have been completely selfish , and now reap the consequence . 
'I thank you , she said , quivering . 
Will you stop the carriage ? 'No , child , said Sir John , 'not until I see you mistress of yourself . 
There was a long pause , during which the carriage rolled by rock and woodland . 
'And now , she resumed , with perfect steadiness , 'will you consider me composed ? I request you , as a gentleman , to let me out . 
'I think you do unwisely , he replied . 
'Continue , if you please , to use my carriage . 
Sir John pulled the string , alighted , and offered her his hand but she refused the help . 
'There , said the Baronet , pointing to the tower , 'you see the Felsenburg , your goal . 
I wish you a good journey , and regret I cannot be of more assistance . 
He mounted to his place and gave a signal , and the carriage rolled away . 
Seraphina stood by the wayside , gazing before her with blind eyes . 
And now she had matter for concern indeed . 
Her interview with Otto , which she had never yet forgiven him , began to appear before her in a very different light . 
The Colonel followed his prisoner and clapped to the door and at that the four horses broke immediately into a swinging trot . 
'Gentlemen , said the Colonel , after some little while had passed , 'if we are to travel in silence , we might as well be at home . 
Gentlemen , this is my chance don't spoil it for me . 
I have here the pick of the whole court , barring lovely woman I have a great author in the person of the Doctor 'Gotthold ! cried Otto . 
'It appears , said the Doctor bitterly , 'that we must go together . 
Your Highness had not calculated upon that . 
'What do you infer ? cried Otto 'that I had you arrested ? 'The inference is simple , said the Doctor . 
'Colonel Gordon , said the Prince , 'oblige me so far , and set me right with Herr von Hohenstockwitz . 
I reveal to you the secrets of the prison house , he added . 
'Otto , said Gotthold , 'I ask you to pardon my suspicions . 
'Gotthold , said the Prince , 'I am not certain I can grant you that . 
'Your Highness is , I am sure , far too magnanimous to hesitate , said the Colonel . 
'But allow me we speak at home in my religion of the means of grace and I now propose to offer them . 
'TU SPEM REDUCIS how does it go , Doctor ? he asked gaily . 
'I am , in a sense , your host and I am sure you are both far too considerate of my embarrassing position to refuse to do me honour . 
Gentlemen , I drink to the Prince ! 'Colonel , said Otto , 'we have a jovial entertainer . 
I drink to Colonel Gordon . 
Thereupon all three took their wine very pleasantly and even as they did so , the carriage with a lurch turned into the high road and began to make better speed . 
'Otto , said Gotthold , after one of these seasons of quiet , 'I do not ask you to forgive me . 
Were the parts reversed , I could not forgive you . 
'Well , said Otto , 'it is a phrase we use . 
I do forgive you , but your words and your suspicions rankle and not yours alone . 
'Allow me , returned the Colonel . 
'You will permit me to hope that I am addressing Christians ? We are all conscious , I trust , that we are miserable sinners . 
'I disown the consciousness , said Gotthold . 
'Warmed with this good fluid , I deny your thesis . 
'I own you have me you are expert in argument , Heir Oberst , said the Doctor . 
'Begad , sir , I am proud to hear you say so , said the Colonel . 
'I was well grounded indeed at Aberdeen . 
A sound creed and a bad morality , that's the root of wisdom . 
You two gentlemen are too good to be forgiving . 
'The paradox is somewhat forced , said Gotthold . 
'Pardon me , Colonel , said the Prince 'I readily acquit you of any design of offence , but your words bite like satire . 
of my prolonged misconduct ? 'O , pardon me ! cried the Colonel . 
'You have never been expelled from the divinity hall you have never been broke . 
I was broke for a neglect of military duty . 
To tell you the open truth , your Highness , I was the worse of drink it's a thing I never do now , he added , taking out his glass . 
I will talk of not forgiving others , sir , when I have made out to forgive myself , and not before and the date is like to be a long one . 
My father , the Reverend Alexander Gordon , was a good man , and damned hard upon others . 
I am what they call a bad one , and that is just the difference . 
The man who cannot forgive any mortal thing is a green hand in life . 
'And yet I have heard of you , Colonel , as a duellist , said Gotthold . 
'A different thing , sir , replied the soldier . 
And I trust without unchristian feeling . 
Presently after the Colonel fell into a deep sleep and his companions looked upon each other , smiling . 
'An odd fish , said Gotthold . 
'And a strange guardian , said the Prince . 
'Yet what he said was true . 
'Rightly looked upon , mused Gotthold , 'it is ourselves that we cannot forgive , when we refuse forgiveness to our friend . 
Some strand of our own misdoing is involved in every quarrel . 
'Are there not offences that disgrace the pardoner ? asked Otto . 
'Otto , said the Doctor , 'in one word , and a bitter one to say I am a secret tippler . 
Yes , I drink too much . 
The habit has robbed these very books , to which you praise my devotion , of the merits that they should have had . 
It has spoiled my temper . 
'Is it so ? said Otto . 
'Why , then , what are we ? Are the very best 'There is no best in man , said Gotthold . 
'I am not better , it is likely I am not worse , than you or that poor sleeper . 
I was a sham , and now you know me that is all . 
'And yet it has not changed my love , returned Otto softly . 
'Our misdeeds do not change us . 
Gotthold , fill your glass . 
What matters it how bad we are , if others can still love us , and we can still love others ? 'Ay ! replied the Doctor . 
'It is very well said . 
It is the true answer to the pessimist , and the standing miracle of mankind . 
The pair fell into silence , the Doctor tapping on his empty glass . 
The carriage swung forth out of the valleys on that open balcony of high road that runs along the front of Grunewald , looking down on Gerolstein . 
Far below , a white waterfall was shining to the stars from the falling skirts of forest , and beyond that , the night stood naked above the plain . 
On the other hand , the lamp light skimmed the face of the precipices , and the dwarf pine trees twinkled with all their needles , and were gone again into the wake . 
Presently the Felsenburg came plainly in view , some way above them , on a bold projection of the mountain , and planting its bulk against the starry sky . 
'See , Gotthold , said the Prince , 'our destination . 
Gotthold awoke as from a trance . 
She paused in the corridor and reckoned up her doings with an eye to Gondremark . 
The fan was in requisition in an instant but her disquiet was beyond the reach of fanning . 
'The girl has lost her head , she thought and then dismally , 'I have gone too far . 
She instantly decided on secession . 
On the other hand , she examined , by way of pastime , the deeds she had received from Otto and even here saw cause for disappointment . 
In these troublous days she had no taste for landed property , and she was convinced , besides , that Otto had paid dearer than the farm was worth . 
Lastly , the order for the Prince's release fairly burned her meddling fingers . 
Governor Gordon , summoned to the gate , welcomed the omnipotent Countess with his most gallant bearing , though it was wonderful how old he looked in the morning . 
'Ah , Governor , she said , 'we have surprises for you , sir , and nodded at him meaningly . 
'Eh , madam , leave me my prisoners , he said 'and if you will but join the band , begad , I'll be happy for life . 
'You would spoil me , would you not ? she asked . 
'I would try , I would try , returned the Governor , and he offered her his arm . 
She took it , picked up her skirt , and drew him close to her . 
'I have come to see the Prince , she said . 
'Now , infidel ! on business . 
A message from that stupid Gondremark , who keeps me running like a courier . 
Do I look like one , Herr Gordon ? And she planted her eyes in him . 
'You look like an angel , ma'am , returned the Governor , with a great air of finished gallantry . 
'An angel on horseback ! she said . 
'You came , you saw , you conquered , flourished Gordon , in high good humour with his own wit and grace . 
I never saw the like of them but once , in my own country , when I was a young fool at College Thomasina Haig her name was . 
I give you my word of honour , she was as like you as two peas . 
'And so you were merry in the carriage ? asked the Countess , gracefully dissembling a yawn . 
We'll get him mellow again ere bedtime . 
'Well , she whispered , 'let me get my breath . 
Have the door ready to open . 
It was a great dramatic entrance , and to the somewhat doleful prisoner within the sight was sunshine . 
'Ah , madam , he cried , running to her 'you here ! She looked meaningly at Gordon and as soon as the door was closed she fell on Otto's neck . 
'To see you here ! she moaned and clung to him . 
But the Prince stood somewhat stiffly in that enviable situation , and the Countess instantly recovered from her outburst . 
'Poor child , she said , 'poor child ! Sit down beside me here , and tell me all about it . 
My heart really bleeds to see you . 
How does time go ? 'Madam , replied the Prince , sitting down beside her , his gallantry recovered , 'the time will now go all too quickly till you leave . 
But I must ask you for the news . 
I have most bitterly condemned myself for my inertia of last night . 
You wisely counselled me it was my duty to resist . 
You wisely and nobly counselled me I have since thought of it with wonder . 
You have a noble heart . 
'Otto , she said , 'spare me . 
Was it even right , I wonder ? I have duties , too , you poor child and when I see you they all melt all my good resolutions fly away . 
'And mine still come too late , he replied , sighing . 
'I ? What do you mean ? Madam , you have some news for me , he cried . 
'O , O ! said madam dubiously . 
He was at her feet . 
'Do not trifle with my hopes , he pleaded . 
'Tell me , dearest Madame von Rosen , tell me ! You cannot be cruel it is not in your nature . 
Give ? I can give nothing I have nothing I can only plead in mercy . 
'Do not , she said 'it is not fair . 
Otto , you know my weakness . 
'O , madam , he said , 'it is for you to be generous , to have pity . 
He took her hand and pressed it he plied her with caresses and appeals . 
The Countess had a most enjoyable sham siege , and then relented . 
She sprang to her feet , she tore her dress open , and , all warm from her bosom , threw the order on the floor . 
'I forced it from her . 
Use it , and I am ruined ! And she turned away as if to veil the force of her emotions . 
Otto sprang upon the paper , read it , and cried out aloud . 
'O , God bless her ! he said , 'God bless her . 
And he kissed the writing . 
Von Rosen was a singularly good natured woman , but her part was now beyond her . 
'Ingrate ! she cried 'I wrung it from her , I betrayed my trust to get it , and 'tis she you thank ! 'Can you blame me ? said the Prince . 
'I see that , she said . 
'And I ? 'You , Madame von Rosen ? You are my dearest , my kindest , and most generous of friends , he said , approaching her . 
'You would be a perfect friend , if you were not so lovely . 
Come , dear Countess , let me to day repose in you entirely . 
He held out his hand , smiling , and she took it frankly . 
'I vow you have bewitched me , she said and then with a laugh , 'I break my staff ! she added 'and I must pay you my best compliment . 
You made a difficult speech . 
You are as adroit , dear Prince , as I am charming . 
And as she said the word with a great curtsey , she justified it . 
'You hardly keep the bargain , madam , when you make yourself so beautiful , said the Prince , bowing . 
'It was my last arrow , she returned . 
Blank cartridge , O MON PRINCE ! And now I tell you , if you choose to leave this prison , you can , and I am ruined . 
Choose ! 'Madame von Rosen , replied Otto , 'I choose , and I will go . 
My duty points me , duty still neglected by this Featherhead . 
But do not fear to be a loser . 
I propose instead that you should take me with you , a bear in chains , to Baron Gondremark . 
I am become perfectly unscrupulous to save my wife I will do all , all he can ask or fancy . 
He shall be filled were he huge as leviathan and greedy as the grave , I will content him . 
And you , the fairy of our pantomime , shall have the credit . 
'Admirable ! Prince Charming no longer Prince Sorcerer , Prince Solon ! Let us go this moment . 
Stay , she cried , pausing . 
'I beg dear Prince , to give you back these deeds . 
'Twas you who liked the farm I have not seen it and it was you who wished to benefit the peasants . 
And , besides , she added , with a comical change of tone , 'I should prefer the ready money . 
'Here I am , once more a farmer , said Otto , accepting the papers , 'but overwhelmed in debt . 
The Countess touched a bell , and the Governor appeared . 
'Governor , she said , 'I am going to elope with his Highness . 
The result of our talk has been a thorough understanding , and the COUP D'ETAT is over . 
Colonel Gordon adjusted silver spectacles upon his nose . 
'Yes , he said , 'the Princess very right . 
But the warrant , madam , was countersigned . 
'By Heinrich ! said von Rosen . 
'Well , and here am I to represent him . 
'Well , your Highness , resumed the soldier of fortune , 'I must congratulate you upon my loss . 
You have been cut out by beauty , and I am left lamenting . 
The Doctor still remains to me PROBUS , DOCTUS , LEPIDUS , JUCUNDUS a man of books . 
'Ay , there is nothing about poor Gotthold , said the Prince . 
'The Governor's consolation ? Would you leave him bare ? asked von Rosen . 
'Colonel , said Otto , holding out his hand , 'your society was of itself enough . 
I do not merely thank you for your pleasant spirits I have to thank you , besides , for some philosophy , of which I stood in need . 
I am so little of a poet , and was so ill inspired by prison bars , that they have some claim to be at least a curiosity . 
The Colonel's countenance lighted as he took the paper the silver spectacles were hurriedly replaced . 
'Ha ! he said , 'Alexandrines , the tragic metre . 
I shall cherish this , your Highness , like a relic no more suitable offering , although I say it , could be made . 
DIEUX DE L'IMMENSE PLAINE ET DES VASTES FORETS . 
Very good , he said , 'very good indeed ! ET DU GEOLIER LUI MEME APPRENDRE DES LECONS . 
Most handsome , begad ! 'Come , Governor , cried the Countess , 'you can read his poetry when we are gone . 
'I ask your pardon , said the Colonel . 
'To a man of my character and tastes , these verses , this handsome reference most moving , I assure you . 
Can I offer you an escort ? 'No , no , replied the Countess . 
'We go incogniti , as we arrived . 
We ride together the Prince will take my servant's horse . 
Hurry and privacy , Herr Oberst , that is all we seek . 
And she began impatiently to lead the way . 
But Otto had still to bid farewell to Dr . 
They walked at first in silence for Otto's mind was full of the delight of liberty and nature , and still , betweenwhiles , he was preparing his interview with Gondremark . 
But when the first rough promontory of the rock was turned , and the Felsenburg concealed behind its bulk , the lady paused . 
'Here , she said , 'I will dismount poor Karl , and you and I must ply our spurs . 
I love a wild ride with a good companion . 
As she spoke , a carriage came into sight round the corner next below them in the order of the road . 
It came heavily creaking , and a little ahead of it a traveller was soberly walking , note book in hand . 
'It is Sir John , cried Otto , and he hailed him . 
They met at the re entrant angle , where a thin stream sprayed across a boulder and was scattered in rain among the brush and the Baronet saluted the Prince with much punctilio . 
To the Countess , on the other hand , he bowed with a kind of sneering wonder . 
'Is it possible , madam , that you have not heard the news ? he asked . 
'What news ? she cried . 
'Wounded and suffering acutely , said Sir John . 
'His groans There fell from the lady's lips an oath so potent that , in smoother hours , it would have made her hearers jump . 
She ran to her horse , scrambled to the saddle , and , yet half seated , dashed down the road at full gallop . 
The groom , after a pause of wonder , followed her . 
At the fourth corner , a woman trailing slowly up leaped back with a cry and escaped death by a hand's breadth . 
But the Countess wasted neither glance nor thought upon the incident . 
Out and in , about the bluffs of the mountain wall , she fled , loose reined , and still the groom toiled in her pursuit . 
'A most impulsive lady ! said Sir John . 
'Who would have thought she cared for him ? And before the words were uttered , he was struggling in the Prince's grasp . 
'My wife ! the Princess ? What of her ? 'She is down the road , he gasped . 
'I left her twenty minutes back . 
And next moment , the choked author stood alone , and the Prince on foot was racing down the hill behind the Countess . 
Had Sir John been given time to tell him all , had he even known that she was speeding to the Felsenburg , he would have gone to her with ardour . 
Had she stood silent , they had soon been locked in an embrace . 
But she too had prepared herself against the interview , and must spoil the golden hour with protestations . 
'All ! she went on , 'I have ruined all ! But , Otto , in kindness you must hear me not justify , but own , my faults . 
I have been taught so cruelly I have had such time for thought , and see the world so changed . 
I have been blind , stone blind I have let all true good go by me , and lived on shadows . 
But when this dream fell , and I had betrayed you , and thought I had killed She paused . 
'I thought I had killed Gondremark , she said with a deep flush , 'and I found myself alone , as you said . 
The mention of the name of Gondremark pricked the Princes generosity like a spur . 
'Well , he cried , 'and whose fault was it but mine ? It was my duty to be beside you , loved or not . 
But I was a skulker in the grain , and found it easier to desert than to oppose you . 
I could never learn that better part of love , to fight love's battles . 
But yet the love was there . 
Do not mistake me ! he cried , seeing her about to speak , and imposing silence with uplifted hand . 
'My love is changed it is purged of any conjugal pretension it does not ask , does not hope , does not wish for a return in kind . 
You may forget for ever that part in which you found me so distasteful , and accept without embarrassment the affection of a brother . 
'You are too generous , Otto , she said . 
'I know that I have forfeited your love . 
I cannot take this sacrifice . 
You had far better leave me . 
I said but now we were as poor as Job and behold ! not many miles from here I have a house of my own to which I will conduct you . 
Otto the Prince being down , we must try what luck remains to Otto the Hunter . 
Come , Seraphina show that you forgive me , and let us set about this business of escape in the best spirits possible . 
You used to say , my dear , that , except as a husband and a prince , I was a pleasant fellow . 
I am neither now , and you may like my company without remorse . 
Come , then it were idle to be captured . 
Can you still walk ? Forth , then , said he , and he began to lead the way . 
A little below where they stood , a good sized brook passed below the road , which overleapt it in a single arch . 
On one bank of that loquacious water a foot path descended a green dell . 
Like a sponge , the hillside oozed with well water . 
The burn kept growing both in force and volume at every leap it fell with heavier plunges and span more widely in the pool . 
Great had been the labours of that stream , and great and agreeable the changes it had wrought . 
From time to time , when he turned to help her , her face would lighten upon his her eyes , half desperately , woo him . 
He saw , but dared not understand . 
'She does not love me , he told himself , with magnanimity . 
'This is remorse or gratitude I were no gentleman , no , nor yet a man , if I presumed upon these pitiful concessions . 
Gaily the pure water , air's first cousin , fleeted along the rude aqueduct , whose sides and floor it had made green with grasses . 
The path , bearing it close company , threaded a wilderness of briar and wild rose . 
The miller , hearing steps , came forth to his door , and both he and Otto started . 
'Good morning , miller , said the Prince . 
'You were right , it seems , and I was wrong . 
I give you the news , and bid you to Mittwalden . 
My throne has fallen great was the fall of it ! and your good friends of the Phoenix bear the rule . 
The red faced miller looked supreme astonishment . 
'And your Highness ? he gasped . 
'My Highness is running away , replied Otto , 'straight for the frontier . 
'Leaving Grunewald ? cried the man . 
'Your father's son ? It's not to be permitted ! 'Do you arrest us , friend ? asked Otto , smiling . 
'Arrest you ? I ? exclaimed the man . 
'For what does your Highness take me ? Why , sir , I make sure there is not a man in Grunewald would lay hands upon you . 
'O , many , many , said the Prince 'but from you , who were bold with me in my greatness , I should even look for aid in my distress . 
The miller became the colour of beetroot . 
'You may say so indeed , said he . 
'And meanwhile , will you and your lady step into my house . 
The miller once more coloured to the nape . 
He hastened to bring forth wine in a pitcher and three bright crystal tumblers . 
'Your Highness must not suppose , he said , as he filled them , 'that I am an habitual drinker . 
is quite an unusual recreation . 
'I owed that man a reparation , said the Prince 'for when we met I was in the wrong and put a sore affront upon him . 
I judge by myself , perhaps but I begin to think that no one is the better for a humiliation . 
'But some have to be taught so , she replied . 
'Well , well , he said , with a painful embarrassment . 
But let us think of safety . 
My miller is all very good , but I do not pin my faith to him . 
To follow down this stream will bring us , but after innumerable windings , to my house . 
Here , up this glade , there lies a cross cut the world's end for solitude the very deer scarce visit it . 
Are you too tired , or could you pass that way ? 'Choose the path , Otto . 
I will follow you , she said . 
'No , he replied , with a singular imbecility of manner and appearance , 'but I meant the path was rough . 
It lies , all the way , by glade and dingle , and the dingles are both deep and thorny . 
'Lead on , she said . 
A weakness both of the body and mind fell on him like the beginnings of sleep the cords of his activity were relaxed , his eyes clung to her . 
'Let us rest , he said and he made her sit down , and himself sat down beside her on the slope of an inconsiderable mound . 
She sat with her eyes downcast , her slim hand dabbling in grass , like a maid waiting for love's summons . 
The sound of the wind in the forest swelled and sank , and drew near them with a running rush , and died away and away in the distance into fainting whispers . 
Nearer hand , a bird out of the deep covert uttered broken and anxious notes . 
All this seemed but a halting prelude to speech . 
To Otto it seemed as if the whole frame of nature were waiting for his words and yet his pride kept him silent . 
The longer he watched that slender and pale hand plucking at the grasses , the harder and rougher grew the fight between pride and its kindly adversary . 
'Seraphina , he said at last , 'it is right you should know one thing I never . 
He was about to say 'doubted you , but was that true ? And , if true , was it generous to speak of it ? Silence succeeded . 
'I pray you , tell it me , she said 'tell it me , in pity . 
'I mean only this , he resumed , 'that I understand all , and do not blame you . 
I understand how the brave woman must look down on the weak man . 
I think you were wrong in some things but I have tried to understand it , and I do . 
I do not need to forget or to forgive , Seraphina , for I have understood . 
'I know what I have done , she said . 
'I am not so weak that I can be deceived with kind speeches . 
I know what I have been I see myself . 
'It is ourselves we cannot forgive , when we deny forgiveness to another so a friend told me last night . 
On these terms , Seraphina , you see how generously I have forgiven myself . 
But am not I to be forgiven ? Come , then , forgive yourself and me . 
She did not answer in words , but reached out her hand to him quickly . 
He took it and as the smooth fingers settled and nestled in his , love ran to and fro between them in tender and transforming currents . 
He hurried his pleading like the speech of a frightened child . 
'It is not love , he went on 'I do not ask for love my love is enough . 
'Otto ! she said , as if in pain . 
He looked up into her face . 
It was wrung with the very ecstasy of tenderness and anguish on her features , and most of all in her changed eyes , there shone the very light of love . 
This is where we meet , meet for the first time it is so much better to forget and to be born again . 
I have dreamed , in a long dream , that I adored a girl unkind and beautiful in all things my superior , but still cold , like ice . 
And again I dreamed , and thought she changed and melted , glowed and turned to me . 
And I who had no merit but a love , slavish and unerect lay close , and durst not move for fear of waking . 
'Lie close , she said , with a deep thrill of speech . 
So they spake in the spring woods and meanwhile , in Mittwalden Rath haus , the Republic was declared . 
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL POSTSCRIPT TO COMPLETE THE STORY THE reader well informed in modern history will not require details as to the fate of the Republic . 
, by our passing acquaintance the licentiate Roederer . 
But , with due allowance for this bias , the book is able and complete . 
Sir John , who plays but a tooth comb in the orchestra of this historical romance , blows in his own book the big bassoon . 
His character is there drawn at large and the sympathy of Landor has countersigned the admiration of the public . 
At that time , indeed , he was possessed of two blotted scrolls and a fair copy in double . 
But the chapter , as the reader knows , was honestly omitted from the famous 'Memoirs on the various Courts of Europe . 
It has been mine to give it to the public . 
Bibliography still helps us with a further glimpse of our characters . 
, 'Poesies par Frederic et Amelie . 
The modest epigraph 'Le rime n'est pas riche' may be attributed , with a good show of likelihood , to the same collaborator . 
It is strikingly appropriate , and I have found the volume very dreary . 
Those pieces in which I seem to trace the hand of the Princess are particularly dull and conscientious . 
But the booklet had a fair success with that public for which it was designed and I have come across some evidences of a second venture of the same sort , now unprocurable . 
It is in the 'Diary of J. Hogg Cotterill , Esq . 
to 'a Baron and Baroness Gondremark he a man who once made a noise she still beautiful both witty . 
I have a real esteem for this patrician lady . 
