The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Part I. Preservation Of The Greek Empire . 
Numbers , Passage , And Event , Of The Second And Third Crusades . 
Reign Of Saladin In Egypt And Syria . 
Richard The First Of England . 
Pope Innocent The Third And The Fourth And Fifth Crusades . 
The Emperor Frederic The Second . 
Louis The Ninth Of France And The Two Last Crusades . 
Expulsion Of The Latins Or Franks By The Mamelukes . 
Whatever had been his fears and toils in the passage of the first crusade , they were amply recompensed by the subsequent benefits which he derived from the exploits of the Franks . 
His dexterity and vigilance secured their first conquest of Nice and from this threatening station the Turks were compelled to evacuate the neighborhood of Constantinople . 
The churches resumed their splendor the towns were rebuilt and fortified and the desert country was peopled with colonies of Christians , who were gently removed from the more distant and dangerous frontier . 
His embarkation was clandestine and , if we may credit a tale of the princess Anne , he passed the hostile sea closely secreted in a coffin . 
The strength of Durazzo , and prudence of Alexius , the progress of famine and approach of winter , eluded his ambitious hopes and the venal confederates were seduced from his standard . 
Of the coast of Anatolia , they possessed the entire circuit from Trebizond to the Syrian gates . 
Instead of trembling for their capital , the Comnenian princes waged an offensive war against the Turks , and the first crusade prevented the fall of the declining empire . 
Anna Comnena relates her father's conquests in Asia Minor Alexiad , l . 
his Cilician war against Tancred and Bohemond , p . 
the war of Epirus , with tedious prolixity , l . 
the death of Bohemond , l . 
Anna Comnena adds , that , to complete the imitation , he was shut up with a dead cock and condescends to wonder how the Barbarian could endure the confinement and putrefaction . 
This absurd tale is unknown to the Latins . 
Note The Greek writers , in general , Zonaras , p . 
, , and Glycas , p . 
agree in this story with the princess Anne , except in the absurd addition of the dead cock . 
Ducange has already quoted some instances where a similar stratagem had been adopted by Norman princes . 
On this authority Wilker inclines to believe the fact . 
is an original and curious piece , which would require , and might afford , a good map of the principality of Antioch . 
the history of the Seljukians of Iconium , Aleppo , and Damascus , as far as it may be collected from the Greeks , Latins , and Arabians . 
The last are ignorant or regardless of the affairs of Roum . 
Paul found in that place a multitude of Jews and Gentiles . 
In the twelfth century , three great emigrations marched by land from the West for the relief of Palestine . 
The soldiers and pilgrims of Lombardy , France , and Germany were excited by the example and success of the first crusade . 
A grand division of the third crusade was led by the emperor Frederic Barbarossa , who sympathized with his brothers of France and England in the common loss of Jerusalem . 
For this supplement to the first crusade , see Anna Comnena , Alexias , l . 
, and the viiith book of Albert Aquensis . 
) For the second crusade , of Conrad III . 
Scriptores Rerum Francicarum a Duchesne tom . 
For the third crusade , of Frederic Barbarossa , see Nicetas in Isaac Angel . 
and the Anonymus de Expeditione Asiatica Fred . 
In the third crusade , as the French and English preferred the navigation of the Mediterranean , the host of Frederic Barbarossa was less numerous . 
Such extravagant reckonings prove only the astonishment of contemporaries but their astonishment most strongly bears testimony to the existence of an enormous , though indefinite , multitude . 
Anne , who states these later swarms at , horse and , foot , calls them Normans , and places at their head two brothers of Flanders . 
The Greeks were strangely ignorant of the names , families , and possessions of the Latin princes . 
For their adventures and fate , see Wilken , vol . 
, Wichaud , book iv . 
M. William of Tyre , and Matthew Paris , reckon , loricati in each of the armies . 
The imperfect enumeration is mentioned by Cinnamus , and confirmed by Odo de Diogilo apud Ducange ad Cinnamum , with the more precise sum of , . 
exclaim ? Numerum si poscere quaeras , Millia millena militis agmen erat . 
my calculation is borrowed from Godfrey of Viterbo , Arnold of Lubeck , apud eundem , and Bernard Thesaur . 
The original writers are silent . 
I must observe , that , in the second and third crusades , the subjects of Conrad and Frederic are styled by the Greeks and Orientals Alamanni . 
The Lechi and Tzechi of Cinnamus are the Poles and Bohemians and it is for the French that he reserves the ancient appellation of Germans . 
Note He names both M. II . 
The number and character of the strangers was an object of terror to the effeminate Greeks , and the sentiment of fear is nearly allied to that of hatred . 
The second and third crusades were undertaken under the reign of Manuel Comnenus and Isaac Angelus . 
In their intercourse with the monarchs of Germany and France , the pride of the Greeks was exposed to an anxious trial . 
While they viewed with hatred and suspicion the Latin pilgrims the Greek emperors maintained a strict , though secret , alliance with the Turks and Saracens . 
Nicetas was a child at the second crusade , but in the third he commanded against the Franks the important post of Philippopolis . 
Cinnamus is infected with national prejudice and pride . 
History would be pleasant , if we were embarrassed only by such contradictions . 
It is likewise from Nicetas , that we learn the pious and humane sorrow of Frederic . 
Louis afterwards insisted on a meeting in mari ex aequo , not ex equo , according to the laughable readings of some MSS . 
In the Epistles of Innocent III . 
see the views of a pope and a cadhi on this singular toleration . 
Without studying the lessons of experience , or the nature of the war , the king of France advanced through the same country to a similar fate . 
The vanguard , which bore the royal banner and the oriflamme of St . 
Denys , had doubled their march with rash and inconsiderate speed and the rear , which the king commanded in person , no longer found their companions in the evening camp . 
But instead of pursuing his expedition by land , he was rejoiced to shelter the relics of his army in the friendly seaport of Satalia . 
Perhaps they had still more to fear from the veteran genius of Frederic the First , who in his youth had served in Asia under his uncle Conrad . 
Forty campaigns in Germany and Italy had taught Barbarossa to command and his soldiers , even the princes of the empire , were accustomed under his reign to obey . 
During twenty days , every step of his fainting and sickly march was besieged by the innumerable hordes of Turkmans , whose numbers and fury seemed after each defeat to multiply and inflame . 
By a sudden and resolute assault he defeated the guards , and stormed the capital of the sultan , who humbly sued for pardon and peace . 
The road was now open , and Frederic advanced in a career of triumph , till he was unfortunately drowned in a petty torrent of Cilicia . 
The remainder of his Germans was consumed by sickness and desertion and the emperor's son expired with the greatest part of his Swabian vassals at the siege of Acre . 
This was the design of the pilgrims under the archbishop of Milan . 
M. ! Conrad had advanced with part of his army along a central road , between that on the coast and that which led to Iconium . 
He had been betrayed by the Greeks , his army destroyed without a battle . 
Conrad advanced again with Louis as far as Ephesus , and from thence , at the invitation of Manuel , returned to Constantinople . 
It was Louis who , at the passage of the Maeandes , was engaged in a glorious action . 
M. As counts of Vexin , the kings of France were the vassals and advocates of the monastery of St . 
The saint's peculiar banner , which they received from the abbot , was of a square form , and a red or flaming color . 
They descended the heights to a beautiful valley which by beneath them . 
The Turks seized the heights which separated the two divisions of the army . 
The modern historians represent differently the act to which Louis owed his safety , which Gibbon has described by the undignified phrase , he climbed a tree . 
According to Michaud , vol . 
, the king got upon a rock , with his back against a tree according to Wilken , vol . 
, he dragged himself up to the top of the rock by the roots of a tree , and continued to defend himself till nightfall . 
M. The original French histories of the second crusade are the Gesta Ludovici VII . 
published in the ivth volume of Duchesne's collection . 
The same volume contains many original letters of the king , of Suger his minister , c . 
, the best documents of authentic history . 
Terram horroris et salsuginis , terram siccam sterilem , inamoenam . 
The emphatic language of a sufferer . 
Gens innumera , sylvestris , indomita , praedones sine ductore . 
The sultan of Cogni might sincerely rejoice in their defeat . 
the ambiguous conduct of Kilidge Arslan , sultan of Cogni , who hated and feared both Saladin and Frederic . 
But , from the march of the emperor , I rather judge , that his Saleph is the Calycadnus , a stream of less fame , but of a longer course . 
Note It is now called the Girama its course is described in M'Donald Kinneir's Travels . 
M. Marinus Sanutus , A. D. , lays it down as a precept , Quod stolus ecclesiae per terram nullatenus est ducenda . 
The enthusiasm of the first crusade is a natural and simple event , while hope was fresh , danger untried , and enterprise congenial to the spirit of the times . 
A philosophic age has abolished , with too liberal and indiscriminate disdain , the honors of these spiritual heroes . 
It was in the proclamation of the second crusade that he shone as the missionary and prophet of God , who called the nations to the defence of his holy sepulchre . 
At the parliament of Vezelay he spoke before the king and Louis the Seventh , with his nobles , received their crosses from his hand . 
The most authentic information of St . 
Bernard must be drawn from his own writings , published in a correct edition by Pere Mabillon , and reprinted at Venice , , in six volumes in folio . 
He has unaccountably , and to the great perplexity of the reader , placed the preaching of St Bernard after the second crusade to which i led . 
M. Clairvaux , surnamed the valley of Absynth , is situate among the woods near Bar sur Aube in Champagne . 
record a marvellous example of his pious apathy . 
Juxta lacum etiam Lausannensem totius diei itinere pergens , penitus non attendit aut se videre non vidit . 
Cum enim vespere facto de eodem lacu socii colloquerentur , interrogabat eos ubi lacus ille esset , et mirati sunt universi . 
To admire or despise St . 
Bernard as he ought , the reader , like myself , should have before the windows of his library the beauties of that incomparable landscape . 
, ad Francos Orientales Opp . 
The Jews acknowledge the Christian intervention of St . 
See the curious extract from the History of Joseph ben Meir . 
multiplicati sunt super numerum vacuantur urbes et castella et pene jam non inveniunt quem apprehendant septem mulieres unum virum adeo ubique viduae vivis remanent viris . 
We must be careful not to construe pene as a substantive . 
Quis ego sum ut disponam acies , ut egrediar ante facies armatorum , aut quid tam remotum a professione mea , si vires , si peritia , c . 
He speaks with contempt of the hermit Peter , vir quidam , Epist . 
See the testimonies in Vita ima , l . 
The Latins themselves were compelled to own the wisdom and courage , and even the justice and piety , of this implacable adversary . 
In his life and government the holy warrior revived the zeal and simplicity of the first caliphs . 
His favorite sultana sighed for some female object of expense . 
Alas , replied the king , I fear God , and am no more than the treasurer of the Moslems . 
Their property I cannot alienate but I still possess three shops in the city of Hems these you may take and these alone can I bestow . 
His chamber of justice was the terror of the great and the refuge of the poor . 
Abulmahasen apud de Guignes , Hist . 
See his article in the Bibliotheque Orientale of D'Herbelot , and De Guignes , tom . 
Such was his valor , that he was styled the second Alexander and such the extravagant love of his subjects , that they prayed for the sultan a year after his decease . 
Yet Sangiar might have been made prisoner by the Franks , as well as by the Uzes . 
and was a munificent patron of Persian poetry . 
See the Chronology of the Atabeks of Irak and Syria , in De Guignes , tom . 
who uses the Arabic text of Benelathir , Ben Schouna and Abulfeda the Bibliotheque Orientale , under the articles Atabeks and Noureddin , and the Dynasties of Abulpharagius , p . 
describes the loss of Edessa , and the death of Zenghi . 
The corruption of his name into Sanguin , afforded the Latins a comfortable allusion to his sanguinary character and end , fit sanguine sanguinolentus . 
On Noureddin's conquest of Damascus , see extracts from Arabian writers prefixed to the second part of the third volume of Wilken . 
maximus nominis et fidei Christianae persecutor princeps tamen justus , vafer , providus' et secundum gentis suae traditiones religiosus . 
quo non alter erat inter reges vitae ratione magis laudabili , aut quae pluribus justitiae experimentis abundaret . 
The true praise of kings is after their death , and from the mouth of their enemies . 
By the arms of the Turks and Franks , the Fatimites had been deprived of Syria . 
In Egypt the decay of their character and influence was still more essential . 
To this union the forces of Shiracouh were unequal he relinquished the premature conquest and the evacuation of Belbeis or Pelusium was the condition of his safe retreat . 
They prudently declined a contest with the Turks in the midst of a hostile country and Amaury retired into Palestine with the shame and reproach that always adhere to unsuccessful injustice . 
After this deliverance , Shiracouh was invested with a robe of honor , which he soon stained with the blood of the unfortunate Shawer . 
describes the palace of Cairo . 
servum emptitium , seu qui pretio numerato in domini possessionem cedit . 
and it was only the Bahartie Mamalukes that were first introduced into Egypt by his descendants . 
gives the king of Jerusalem no more than knights . 
Both the Franks and the Moslems report the superior numbers of the enemy a difference which may be solved by counting or omitting the unwarlike Egyptians . 
The treaty stipulated that both the Christians and the Arabs should withdraw from Egypt . 
M. ! The Knights Templars , abhorring the perfidious breach of treaty partly , perhaps , out of jealousy of the Hospitallers , refused to join in this enterprise . 
The justice of his divan was accessible to the meanest suppliant against himself and his ministers and it was only for a kingdom that Saladin would deviate from the rule of equity . 
While the descendants of Seljuk and Zenghi held his stirrup and smoothed his garments , he was affable and patient with the meanest of his servants . 
For the Curds , see De Guignes , tom . 
, , the Index Geographicus of Schultens and Tavernier , Voyages , p . 
See the ivth book of the Anabasis of Xenophon . 
The ten thousand suffered more from the arrows of the free Carduchians , than from the splendid weakness of the great king . 
To these we may add , the article of Salaheddin in the Bibliotheque Orientale , and all that may be gleaned from the Dynasties of Abulpharagius . 
Since Abulfeda was himself an Ayoubite , he may share the praise , for imitating , at least tacitly , the modesty of the founder . 
in the Gesta Dei per Francos , p . 
In these Arabic titles , religionis must always be understood Noureddin , lumen r . 
See his life and character in Renaudot , p . 
himself an eye witness , and an honest bigot . 
In many works , particularly Joseph's well in the castle of Cairo , the Sultan and the Patriarch have been confounded by the ignorance of natives and travellers . 
But the powers of Egypt , Syria , and Arabia , were now united by a hero , whom nature and fortune had armed against the Christians . 
All without now bore the most threatening aspect and all was feeble and hollow in the internal state of Jerusalem . 
At length , on every side , the sinking state was encircled and pressed by a hostile line and the truce was violated by the Franks , whose existence it protected . 
Saladin condescended to complain rejoiced in the denial of justice , and at the head of fourscore thousand horse and foot invaded the Holy Land . 
was left in the power of the infidels . 
On the proud or conscientious refusal of the Christian warrior , Saladin struck him on the head with his cimeter , and Reginald was despatched by the guards . 
The kingdom was left without a head and of the two grand masters of the military orders , the one was slain and the other was a prisoner . 
For the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem , see William of Tyre , from the ixth to the xxiid book . 
Jacob a Vitriaco , Hist . 
, and Sanutus Secreta Fidelium Crucis , l . 
Raymond's advice would have prevented the abandonment of a secure camp abounding with water near Sepphoris . 
Raymond did not fly till the battle was irretrievably lost , and then the Saracens seem to have opened their ranks to allow him free passage . 
M. Michaud is still more friendly than Wilken to the memory of Count Raymond , who died suddenly , shortly after the battle of Hittin . 
He quotes a letter written in the name of Saladin by the caliph Alfdel , to show that Raymond was considered by the Mahometans their most dangerous and detested enemy . 
No person of distinction among the Christians escaped , except the count , whom God curse . 
God made him die shortly afterwards , and sent him from the kingdom of death to hell . 
alludes to the practice of Saladin , of never putting to death a prisoner who had tasted his bread and salt . 
inserts two original epistles of a Knight Templar . 
Their sole hope was in the mercy of the conqueror , and to their first suppliant deputation that mercy was sternly denied . 
He consented to accept the city , and to spare the inhabitants . 
Of some writers it is a favorite and invidious theme to compare the humanity of Saladin with the massacre of the first crusade . 
After Jerusalem had been delivered from the presence of the strangers , the sultan made his triumphal entry , his banners waving in the wind , and to the harmony of martial music . 
and Abulfeda are our Moslem witnesses . 
The nations might fear and hope the immediate and final expulsion of the Latins from Syria which was yet delayed above a century after the death of Saladin . 
He was soon assailed by a more formidable tempest . 
The skilful and provident Italians first embarked in the ships of Genoa , Pisa , and Venice . 
They were speedily followed by the most eager pilgrims of France , Normandy , and the Western Isles . 
Their increasing multitudes could no longer be confined within the walls of Tyre , or remain obedient to the voice of Conrad . 
They pitied the misfortunes , and revered the dignity , of Lusignan , who was released from prison , perhaps , to divide the army of the Franks . 
I shall not expatiate on the story of this memorable siege which lasted near two years , and consumed , in a narrow space , the forces of Europe and Asia . 
The vulgar was astonished by the report , that the pope himself , with an innumerable crusade , was advanced as far as Constantinople . 
By the conquest of Acre , the Latin powers acquired a strong town and a convenient harbor but the advantage was most dearly purchased . 
I have followed a moderate and probable representation of the fact by Vertot , who adopts without reluctance a romantic tale the old marquis is actually exposed to the darts of the besieged . 
adds the nations of the East from the Tigris to India , and the swarthy tribes of Moors and Getulians , so that Asia and Africa fought against Europe . 
and this massacre is neither denied nor blamed by the Christian historians . 
He quotes the judgment of Balianus , and the prince of Sidon , and adds , ex illo mundo quasi hominum paucissimi redierunt . 
Among the Christians who died before St . 
Mowbray , De Mandevil , De Fiennes , St . 
John , Scrope , Bigot , Talbot , c . 
In the eyes of the Orientals the French monarch was superior in dignity and power and , in the emperor's absence , the Latins revered him as their temporal chief . 
His exploits were not adequate to his fame . 
A march of one hundred miles from Acre to Ascalon was a great and perpetual battle of eleven days . 
The discovery of his weakness , provoked them to return in the morning and they found him carelessly encamped before the gates with only seventeen knights and three hundred archers . 
Am I writing the history of Orlando or Amadis ? Magnus hic apud eos , interque reges eorum tum virtute tum majestate eminens . 
He does not seem to have known the names either of Philip or Richard . 
A stranger might admire those riches the national historians will tell with what lawless and wasteful oppression they were collected . 
to have employed the assassins to murder both Conrad and Richard . 
It is a melancholy admission , but it must be acknowledged , that such an act would be less inconsistent with the character of the Christian than of the Mahometan king . 
He draws aside a corner of the political curtain . 
without supposing , like Matthew Paris , that he was bribed by Saladin . 
The author of the Itinerary , or the monk of St . 
and on the whole of this war there is a marvellous agreement between the Christian and Mahometan writers , who mutually praise the virtues of their enemies . 
During these hostilities , a languid and tedious negotiation between the Franks and Moslems was started , and continued , and broken , and again resumed , and again broken . 
A personal interview was declined by Saladin , who alleged their mutual ignorance of each other's language and the negotiation was managed with much art and delay by their interpreters and envoys . 
The final agreement was equally disapproved by the zealots of both parties , by the Roman pontiff and the caliph of Bagdad . 
Richard embarked for Europe , to seek a long captivity and a premature grave and the space of a few months concluded the life and glories of Saladin . 
See the progress of negotiation and hostility in Bohadin , who was himself an actor in the treaty . 
Roger Hoveden and Matthew Paris afford likewise many valuable materials and the former describes , with accuracy , the discipline and navigation of the English fleet . 
adopts the foolish notion of the indifference of Saladin , who professed the Koran with his last breath . 
and the tables of M. De Guignes , l'Art de Verifier les Dates , and the Bibliotheque Orientale . 
Under that young and ambitious priest , the successors of St . 
In the council of the Lateran he acted as the ecclesiastical , almost as the temporal , sovereign of the East and West . 
The fourth crusade was diverted from Syria to Constantinople and the conquest of the Greek or Roman empire by the Latins will form the proper and important subject of the next chapter . 
In the fifth , two hundred thousand Franks were landed at the eastern mouth of the Nile . 
The suspicion is not founded , either in nature or in fact . 
has copiously treated of the origin , abuses , and restrictions of these tenths . 
See the Gesta Innocentii III . 
To those who took the cross against Mainfroy , the pope granted plenissimam peccatorum remissionem . 
A high flight for the reason of the xiiith century . 
Frederic the Second , the grandson of Barbarossa , was successively the pupil , the enemy , and the victim of the church . 
For suspending his vow was Frederic excommunicated by Gregory the Ninth for presuming , the next year , to accomplish his vow , he was again excommunicated by the same pope . 
he took the crown from the altar of the holy sepulchre . 
This peace and prosperity , for which they were ungrateful to their benefactor , was terminated by the irruption of the strange and savage hordes of Carizmians . 
The original materials for the crusade of Frederic II . 
may be drawn from Richard de St . 
Poor Muratori knows what to think , but knows not what to say Chino qui il capo , c . 
The clergy artfully confounded the mosque or church of the temple with the holy sepulchre , and their wilful error has deceived both Vertot and Muratori . 
They were in alliance with Eyub , sultan of Syria . 
Twenty eight years after his death , he was canonized at Rome and sixty five miracles were readily found , and solemnly attested , to justify the claim of the royal saint . 
From this intimate knowledge we may learn to suspect the political views of depressing their great vassals , which are so often imputed to the royal authors of the crusades . 
Read , if you can , the Life and Miracles of St . 
but he cautioned Joinville against disputing with infidels . 
most precious for the pure and authentic text , a MS . 
of which has been recently discovered . 
The last edition proves that the history of St . 
Note Compare Wilken , vol . 
But a soldier , who afterwards usurped the sceptre , rallied the flying troops the main body of the Christians was far behind the vanguard and Artois was overpowered and slain . 
He wasted four years within the walls of Acre , unable to visit Jerusalem , and unwilling to return without glory to his native country . 
The last editors have enriched their Joinville with large and curious extracts from the Arabic historians , Macrizi , Abulfeda , c . 
who calls him by the corrupt name of Redefrans . 
has described the rival folly of the French and English who fought and fell at Massoura . 
and a narrative of the exposition of St . 
For the ransom of St . 
, thinks the proposition could not have been made in earnest . 
M. The memory of his defeat excited Louis , after sixteen years of wisdom and repose , to undertake the seventh and last of the crusades . 
Instead of a proselyte , he found a siege the French panted and died on the burning sands St . 
Louis expired in his tent and no sooner had he closed his eyes , than his son and successor gave the signal of the retreat . 
See the expedition in the annals of St . 
Louis , by William de Nangis , p . 
and the Arabic extracts , p . 
, , of the Louvre edition of Joinville . 
A more unjust and absurd constitution cannot be devised than that which condemns the natives of a country to perpetual servitude , under the arbitrary dominion of strangers and slaves . 
Yet such has been the state of Egypt above five hundred years . 
They produce the great charter of their liberties , the treaty of Selim the First with the republic and the Othman emperor still accepts from Egypt a slight acknowledgment of tribute and subjection . 
Among these , the English reader will observe the name of our first Edward , who assumed the cross in the lifetime of his father Henry . 
John of Acre , which is sometimes described by the more classic title of Ptolemais . 
their history from Abulfeda , Macrizi , c . 
Savary , Lettres sur l'Egypte , tom . 
a curious , authentic , and national history . 
Gibbon colors rather highly the success of Edward . 
Wilken is more accurate vol . 
M. See Carte's History of England , vol . 
, and his original authors , Thomas Wikes and Walter Hemingford , in Gale's Collection , tom . 
) They are both ignorant of the princess Eleanor's piety in sucking the poisoned wound , and saving her husband at the risk of her own life . 
! The sultan Bibars was concerned in this attempt at assassination Wilken , vol . 
Ptolemaeus Lucensis is the earliest authority for the devotion of Eleanora . 
, and De Guignes , Hist . 
, from the Arabic historians . 
The city had many sovereigns , and no government . 
The state of Acre is represented in all the chronicles of te times , and most accurately in John Villani , l . 
, in Muratoru Scriptores Rerum Italicarum , tom . 
See the final expulsion of the Franks , in Sanutus , l . 
Abulfeda , Macrizi , c . 
, in De Guignes , tom . 
, and Vertot , tom . 
M. Chapter LX The Fourth Crusade . 
Part I. Schism Of The Greeks And Latins . 
Isaac Angelus Dethroned By His Brother Alexius . 
Origin Of The Fourth Crusade . 
Alliance Of The French And Venetians With The Son Of Isaac . 
Their Naval Expedition To Constantinople . 
The Two Sieges And Final Conquest Of The City By The Latins . 
The restoration of the Western empire by Charlemagne was speedily followed by the separation of the Greek and Latin churches . 
In the course of the present History , the aversion of the Greeks for the Latins has been often visible and conspicuous . 
Such were the crimes which provoked the zeal of the patriarchs of Constantinople and which were justified with equal zeal by the doctors of the Latin church . 
The Oriental patriarch continues to apply the images of thunder , earthquake , hail , wild boar , precursors of Antichrist , c . 
The mysterious subject of the procession of the Holy Ghost is discussed in the historical , theological , and controversial sense , or nonsense , by the Jesuit Petavius . 
Before the shrine of St . 
His language most clearly proves , that neither the filioque , nor the Athanasian creed were received at Rome about the year . 
The Missi of Charlemagne pressed him to declare , that all who rejected the filioque , or at least the doctrine , must be damned . 
With the aid of his court the Greek patriarch was victorious but in the furious contest he deposed in his turn the successor of St . 
Peter , and involved the Latin church in the reproach of heresy and schism . 
By a delusive promise of succor or reward , the popes were tempted to countenance these various proceedings and the synods of Constantinople were ratified by their epistles or legates . 
The darkness and corruption of the tenth century suspended the intercourse , without reconciling the minds , of the two nations . 
The rising majesty of Rome could no longer brook the insolence of a rebel and Michael Cerularius was excommunicated in the heart of Constantinople by the pope's legates . 
Shaking the dust from their feet , they deposited on the altar of St . 
The synod of Constantinople , held in the year , is the viiith of the general councils , the last assembly of the East which is recognized by the Roman church . 
She rejects the synods of Constantinople of the years and , which were , however , equally numerous and noisy but they were favorable to Photius . 
See this anathema in the Councils , tom . 
represents the abhorrence , not only of the church , but of the palace , for Gregory VII . 
, the popes and the Latin communion . 
The style of Cinnamus and Nicetas is still more vehement . 
Of this hostile temper , a large portion may doubtless be ascribed to the difference of language , dress , and manners , which severs and alienates the nations of the globe . 
But these profane causes of national enmity were fortified and inflamed by the venom of religious zeal . 
In the crusade of Louis the Seventh , the Greek clergy washed and purified the altars which had been defiled by the sacrifice of a French priest . 
The companions of Frederic Barbarossa deplore the injuries which they endured , both in word and deed , from the peculiar rancor of the bishops and monks . 
The passage of these mighty armies were rare and perilous events but the crusades introduced a frequent and familiar intercourse between the two nations , which enlarged their knowledge without abating their prejudices . 
The more diligent of the strangers had retreated , on the first alarm , to their vessels , and escaped through the Hellespont from the scene of blood . 
mentions the sermons of the Greek patriarch , quomodo Graecis injunxerat in remissionem peccatorum peregrinos occidere et delere de terra . 
Graeci haereticos nos appellant clerici et monachi dictis et factis persequuntur . 
There may be some exaggeration , but it was as effectual for the action and reaction of hatred . 
who observes of the Venetians , c . 
apud eum tantam Latinus populus repererat gratiam ut neglectis Graeculis suis tanquam viris mollibus et effoeminatis , . 
solis Latinis grandia committeret negotia . 
erga eos profusa liberalitate abundabat . 
ex omni orbe ad eum tanquam ad benefactorem nobiles et ignobiles concurrebant . 
The suspicions of the Greeks would have been confirmed , if they had seen the political epistles of Manuel to Pope Alexander III . 
the first soft and concise , the second loud , copious , and tragical . 
The revolution , which cast him headlong from the throne , saved and exalted Isaac Angelus , who descended by the females from the same Imperial dynasty . 
The successor of a second Nero might have found it an easy task to deserve the esteem and affection of his subjects they sometimes had reason to regret the administration of Andronicus . 
were useless , to mankind and the Greeks , who imputed their calamities to his negligence , denied him the merit of any transient or accidental benefits of the times . 
His poverty was relieved by oppression and the public discontent was inflamed by equal abuses in the collection , and the application , of the revenue . 
In these unworthy hands , of Isaac and his brother , the remains of the Greek empire crumbled into dust . 
and his offices of logothete , or principal secretary , and judge of the veil or palace , could not bribe the impartiality of the historian . 
He wrote , it is true , after the fall and death of his benefactor . 
The ambassador of Isaac was equally versed in the Greek , French , and Arabic languages a rare instance in those times . 
His embassies were received with honor , dismissed without effect , and reported with scandal in the West . 
The honor of the monarchy and the safety of the capital were deeply wounded by the revolt of the Bulgarians and Walachians . 
Demetrius had forever deserted the cause of the Greeks and the conflagration spread from the banks of the Danube to the hills of Macedonia and Thrace . 
By the arms and policy of John or Joannices , the second kingdom of Bulgaria was firmly established . 
Ducange , Familiae , Dalmaticae , p . 
The original correspondence of the Bulgarian king and the Roman pontiff is inscribed in the Gesta Innocent . 
The pope acknowledges his pedigree , a nobili urbis Romae prosapia genitores tui originem traxerunt . 
Possible , but strange ! The Bulgarians were malicious enough to pray for the long life of Isaac Angelus , the surest pledge of their freedom and prosperity . 
Yet their chiefs could involve in the same indiscriminate contempt the family and nation of the emperor . 
In all the Greeks , said Asan to his troops , the same climate , and character , and education , will be productive of the same fruits . 
Behold my lance , continued the warrior , and the long streamers that float in the wind . 
At the moment of the revolution , his son Alexius , whom he educated in the hope of empire , was twelve years of age . 
See the reign of Alexius Angelus , or Comnenus , in the three books of Nicetas , p . 
Bernard in the merit of an orator and a statesman . 
An illiterate priest of the neighborhood of Paris , Fulk of Neuilly , forsook his parochial duty , to assume the more flattering character of a popular and itinerant missionary . 
No sooner did Innocent the Third ascend the chair of St . 
Peter , than he proclaimed in Italy , Germany , and France , the obligation of a new crusade . 
The situation of the principal monarchs was averse to the pious summons . 
The emperor Frederic the Second was a child and his kingdom of Germany was disputed by the rival houses of Brunswick and Swabia , the memorable factions of the Guelphs and Ghibelines . 
, and Villehardouin , No. , with the observations of Ducange , which I always mean to quote with the original text . 
The contemporary life of Pope Innocent III . 
was enrolled in the church of St . 
, from the old Chronicle of Jerusalem , A. D. . 
The name of Villehardouin was taken from a village and castle in the diocese of Troyes , near the River Aube , between Bar and Arcis . 
This office was held by his father and his descendants but Ducange has not hunted it with his usual sagacity . 
I find that , in the year , it was in the family of Conflans but these provincial have been long since eclipsed by the national marshals of France . 
This language , of which I shall produce some specimens , is explained by Vigenere and Ducange , in a version and glossary . 
gives it as the example of a language which has ceased to be French , and is understood only by grammarians . 
His age , and his own expression , moi qui ceste oeuvre dicta . 
that he could neither read nor write . 
Yet Champagne may boast of the two first historians , the noble authors of French prose , Villehardouin and Joinville . 
which I have only seen with the eyes of Ducange . 
On the verge of the two empires , the Venetians exult in the belief of primitive and perpetual independence . 
Against the Latins , their antique freedom has been asserted by the sword , and may be justified by the pen . 
But the bands of this dependence , which was never absolute or rigid , were imperceptibly relaxed by the ambition of Venice and the weakness of Constantinople . 
Obedience was softened into respect , privilege ripened into prerogative , and the freedom of domestic government was fortified by the independence of foreign dominion . 
The twelfth century produced the first rudiments of the wise and jealous aristocracy , which has reduced the doge to a pageant , and the people to a cipher . 
The two critics have a slight bias , the Frenchman adverse , the Italian favorable , to the republic . 
and the report of the ixth establishes the fact of the xth century , which is confirmed by the embassy of Liutprand of Cremona . 
by the softer appellation of subditi , or fideles . 
See the xxvth and xxxth dissertations of the Antiquitates Medii Aevi of Muratori . 
From Anderson's History of Commerce , I understand that the Venetians did not trade to England before the year . 
The Venetians have been slow in writing and publishing their history . 
Their most ancient monuments are , . 
which represents the state and manners of Venice in the year . 
Andrew Dandolo , published for the first time in the xiith tom . 
of Muratori , A. D. . 
is a work of some merit , which I have chiefly used for the constitutional part . 
I have not yet seen this work . 
M. Chapter LX The Fourth Crusade . 
When the six ambassadors of the French pilgrims arrived at Venice , they were hospitably entertained in the palace of St . 
Mark , by the reigning duke his name was Henry Dandolo and he shone in the last period of human life as one of the most illustrious characters of the times . 
It was proposed that the crusaders should assemble at Venice , on the feast of St . 
The terms were hard but the emergency was pressing , and the French barons were not less profuse of money than of blood . 
A general assembly was convened to ratify the treaty the stately chapel and place of St . 
Mark were filled with ten thousand citizens and the noble deputies were taught a new lesson of humbling themselves before the majesty of the people . 
They have enjoined us to fall prostrate at your feet nor will we rise from the ground till you have promised to avenge with us the injuries of Christ . 
Two thousand marks were borrowed of the merchants for the first expenses of the armament . 
See the Observations of Ducange sur Villehardouin , No. . 
But this extraordinary longevity is not observed by the original writers , nor does there exist another example of a hero near a hundred years of age . 
Theophrastus might afford an instance of a writer of ninety nine but instead of Prooem . 
, ) I am much inclined to read with his last editor Fischer , and the first thoughts of Casaubon . 
It is scarcely possible that the powers of the mind and body should support themselves till such a period of life . 
M. See the original treaty in the Chronicle of Andrew Dandolo , p . 
A reader of Villehardouin must observe the frequent tears of the marshal and his brother knights . 
They weep on every occasion of grief , joy , or devotion . 
The execution of the treaty was still opposed by unforeseen difficulties and delays . 
The marshal , on his return to Troyes , was embraced and approved by Thibaut count of Champagne , who had been unanimously chosen general of the confederates . 
But that price far exceeded the wealth of the crusaders who were assembled at Venice . 
Marks , was a generous but inadequate sacrifice and after all their efforts , thirty four thousand marks were still wanting to complete the stipulated sum . 
who celebrates the pilgrimage of his abbot Martin , one of the preaching rivals of Fulk of Neuilly . 
His monastery , of the Cistercian order , was situate in the diocese of Basil Jadera , now Zara , was a Roman colony , which acknowledged Augustus for its parent . 
It is now only two miles round , and contains five or six thousand inhabitants but the fortifications are strong , and it is joined to the main land by a bridge . 
the last of whom , by mistaking Sestertia for Sestertii , values an arch with statues and columns at twelve pounds . 
If , in his time , there were no trees near Zara , the cherry trees were not yet planted which produce our incomparable marasquin . 
collects all the facts and testimonies most adverse to the conquerors of Zara . 
See the whole transaction , and the sentiments of the pope , in the Epistles of Innocent III . 
Montfort protested against the siege . 
See likewise , at length , the history of the interdict issued by the pope . 
These tempting conditions were accepted by the republic of Venice and the eloquence of the doge and marquis persuaded the counts of Flanders , Blois , and St . 
Pol , with eight barons of France , to join in the glorious enterprise . 
The apostle of Rome had pronounced nor would they usurp the right of avenging with the sword the schism of the Greeks and the doubtful usurpation of the Byzantine monarch . 
Reinier and Conrad the former married Maria , daughter of the emperor Manuel Comnenus the latter was the husband of Theodora Angela , sister of the emperors Isaac and Alexius . 
accuses the doge and Venetians as the first authors of the war against Constantinople , and considers the arrival and shameful offers of the royal exile . 
M. Villehardouin and Gunther represent the sentiments of the two parties . 
The abbot Martin left the army at Zara , proceeded to Palestine , was sent ambassador to Constantinople , and became a reluctant witness of the second siege . 
As they penetrated through the Hellespont , the magnitude of their navy was compressed in a narrow channel , and the face of the waters was darkened with innumerable sails . 
They again expanded in the basin of the Propontis , and traversed that placid sea , till they approached the European shore , at the abbey of St . 
Stephen , three leagues to the west of Constantinople . 
The birth and dignity of Andrew Dandolo gave him the motive and the means of searching in the archives of Venice the memorable story of his ancestor . 
Blondus , Sabellicus , and Rhamnusius . 
This description rather belongs to the first setting sail of the expedition from Venice , before the siege of Zara . 
The armament did not return to Venice . 
His feelings and expressions are original he often weeps , but he rejoices in the glories and perils of war with a spirit unknown to a sedentary writer . 
In this voyage , almost all the geographical names are corrupted by the Latins . 
Et sachiez que il ni ot si hardi cui le cuer ne fremist , . 
Such is the honesty of courage . 
In relating the invasion of a great empire , it may seem strange that I have not described the obstacles which should have checked the progress of the strangers . 
But all force may be annihilated by the negligence of the prince and the venality of his ministers . 
He suffered these contemptible Barbarians to pitch their camp in the sight of the palace and his apprehensions were thinly disguised by the pomp and menace of a suppliant embassy . 
at the hostile appearance of the strangers . 
The answer of the doge and barons was simple and magnanimous . 
In the cause of honor and justice , they said , we despise the usurper of Greece , his threats , and his offers . 
Let that brother confess his guilt , and implore forgiveness , and we ourselves will intercede , that he may be permitted to live in affluence and security . 
But let him not insult us by a second message our reply will be made in arms , in the palace of Constantinople . 
Eandem urbem plus in solis navibus piscatorum abundare , quam illos in toto navigio . 
Habebat enim mille et sexcentas piscatorias naves . 
Bellicas autem sive mercatorias habebant infinitae multitudinis et portum tutissimum . 
On the tenth day of their encampment at Scutari , the crusaders prepared themselves , as soldiers and as Catholics , for the passage of the Bosphorus . 
The four successive battles of the French were commanded by his brother Henry , the counts of St . 
Pol and Blois , and Matthew of Montmorency the last of whom was honored by the voluntary service of the marshal and nobles of Champagne . 
The sixth division , the rear guard and reserve of the army , was conducted by the marquis of Montferrat , at the head of the Germans and Lombards . 
The numerous train of sergeants and archers occupied the transports and each transport was towed by the strength and swiftness of a galley . 
In the first consternation of the flying enemy , they resolved , by a double attack , to open the entrance of the harbor . 
From the version of Vignere I adopt the well sounding word palander , which is still used , I believe , in the Mediterranean . 
To avoid the vague expressions of followers , c . 
, I use , after Villehardouin , the word sergeants for all horsemen who were not knights . 
It is needless to observe , that on the subject of Galata , the chain , c . 
, Ducange is accurate and full . 
Consult likewise the proper chapters of the C. P. Christiana of the same author . 
The inhabitants of Galata were so vain and ignorant , that they applied to themselves St . 
Paul's Epistle to the Galatians . 
has changed into Aquilo , the north wind . 
maintains the latter reading but he had not seen the respectable text of Dandolo , nor did he enough consider the topography of the harbor . 
The south east would have been a more effectual wind . 
must be understood of men of a military age . 
allows Constantinople a million of inhabitants , of whom , horse , and an infinite number of foot soldiers . 
the real populousness of their cities . 
In the choice of the attack , the French and Venetians were divided by their habits of life and warfare . 
The former affirmed with truth , that Constantinople was most accessible on the side of the sea and the harbor . 
On the edge of a broad ditch , at the foot of a lofty rampart , they had leisure to contemplate the difficulties of their enterprise . 
On the side of the harbor the naval attack was more successfully conducted by the Venetians and that industrious people employed every resource that was known and practiced before the invention of gunpowder . 
In the midst of the conflict , the doge , a venerable and conspicuous form , stood aloft in complete armor on the prow of his galley . 
The great standard of St . 
The nations admired the magnanimity of the blind old man , without reflecting that his age and infirmities diminished the price of life , and enhanced the value of immortal glory . 
the banner of the republic was fixed on the rampart twenty five towers were rapidly occupied and , by the cruel expedient of fire , the Greeks were driven from the adjacent quarter . 
The doge had despatched the intelligence of his success , when he was checked by the danger of his confederates . 
He found the six weary diminutive battles of the French encompassed by sixty squadrons of the Greek cavalry , the least of which was more numerous than the largest of their divisions . 
As soon as they were apprised of his flight , the Greek nobles sought pardon and peace in the dungeon where the blind Isaac expected each hour the visit of the executioner . 
On the most correct plans of Constantinople , I know not how to measure more than paces . 
If his eye were not deceived , he must reckon by the old Gallic league of paces , which might still be used in Champagne . 
The guards , the Varangi , are styled by Villehardouin , Englois et Danois avec leurs haches . 
Whatever had been their origin , a French pilgrim could not be mistaken in the nations of which they were at that time composed . 
For the first siege and conquest of Constantinople , we may read the original letter of the crusaders to Innocent III . 
Nicetas , in Alexio Comnen . 
Gunther , and his abbot Martin , were not yet returned from their obstinate pilgrim age to Jerusalem , or St . 
John d'Acre , where the greatest part of the company had died of the plague . 
Chapter LX The Fourth Crusade . 
But these generous deliverers were unwilling to release their hostage , till they had obtained from his father the payment , or at least the promise , of their recompense . 
They chose four ambassadors , Matthew of Montmorency , our historian the marshal of Champagne , and two Venetians , to congratulate the emperor . 
The submission of the Eastern empire to the pope , the succor of the Holy Land , and a present contribution of two hundred thousand marks of silver . 
These conditions are weighty , was his prudent reply they are hard to accept , and difficult to perform . 
But no conditions can exceed the measure of your services and deserts . 
But the liberty of trade and familiar intercourse was allowed between the friendly nations and each day the pilgrims were tempted by devotion or curiosity to visit the churches and palaces of Constantinople . 
que de toutes les autres ere souveraine . 
See the parallel passages of Fulcherius Carnotensis , Hist . 
If these merry companions were Venetians , it was the insolence of trade and a commonwealth . 
The doge affirms , that the Venetians were paid more slowly than the French but he owns , that the histories of the two nations differed on that subject . 
The reign of Alexius Comnenus occupies three books in Nicetas , p . 
The short restoration of Isaac and his son is despatched in five chapters , p . 
By the recent invasion , the Greeks were awakened from a dream of nine centuries from the vain presumption that the capital of the Roman empire was impregnable to foreign arms . 
During the absence of Marquis Boniface and his Imperial pupil , Constantinople was visited with a calamity which might be justly imputed to the zeal and indiscretion of the Flemish pilgrims . 
During eight days and nights , the conflagration spread above a league in front , from the harbor to the Propontis , over the thickest and most populous regions of the city . 
The emperor returned in triumph but the firmest and most dexterous policy would have been insufficient to steer him through the tempest , which overwhelmed the person and government of that unhappy youth . 
His own inclination , and his father's advice , attached him to his benefactors but Alexius hesitated between gratitude and patriotism , between the fear of his subjects and of his allies . 
Regardless of his painful situation , the Latin chiefs repeated their demands , resented his delays , suspected his intentions , and exacted a decisive answer of peace or war . 
Such was the sincere language of every Greek to the last gasp of the empire . 
is positive in the charge , and specifies the Flemings , though he is wrong in supposing it an ancient name . 
of the names of the guilty . 
cum patriarcha et mole nobilium , nobis promises perjurus et mendax . 
At the dead of night , he rushed into the bed chamber with an affrighted aspect , exclaiming , that the palace was attacked by the people and betrayed by the guards . 
Starting from his couch , the unsuspecting prince threw himself into the arms of his enemy , who had contrived his escape by a private staircase . 
The emperor Isaac Angelus soon followed his son to the grave and Mourzoufle , perhaps , might spare the superfluous crime of hastening the extinction of impotence and blindness . 
speaks of him as a favorite , without knowing that he was a prince of the blood , Angelus and Ducas . 
Ducange , who pries into every corner , believes him to be the son of Isaac Ducas Sebastocrator , and second cousin of young Alexius . 
The death of the emperors , and the usurpation of Mourzoufle , had changed the nature of the quarrel . 
Near three months , without excepting the holy season of Lent , were consumed in skirmishes and preparations , before the Latins were ready or resolved for a general assault . 
Four towers were scaled three gates were burst open and the French knights , who might tremble on the waves , felt themselves invincible on horseback on the solid ground . 
is omitted as scandalous by the delicacy of Dandolo and Villehardouin . 
Note Wilken places it before the death of Alexius , vol . 
It is remarkable that neither of these warriors observe any peculiar properties in the Greek fire . 
pours forth a torrent of learning on the Gonfanon Imperial . 
affirms , that nulla spes victoriae arridere poterat . 
Yet the knight despises those who thought of flight , and the monk praises his countrymen who were resolved on death . 
Baldwin , and all the writers , honor the names of these two galleys , felici auspicio . 
Pietro Alberti , a Venetion noble and Andrew d'Amboise a French knight . 
M. With an allusion to Homer , Nicetas calls him eighteen yards high , a stature which would , indeed , have excused the terror of the Greek . 
On this occasion , the historian seems fonder of the marvellous than of his country , or perhaps of truth . 
Baldwin exclaims in the words of the psalmist , persequitur unus ex nobis centum alienos . 
Baldwin's iid Epistle to Innocent III . 
who added the decorations of prophecy and vision . 
The former produces an oracle of the Erythraean sibyl , of a great armament on the Adriatic , under a blind chief , against Byzantium , c . 
Curious enough , were the prediction anterior to the fact . 
Constantinople had been taken by storm and no restraints , except those of religion and humanity , were imposed on the conquerors by the laws of war . 
Yet of these exiles , some were less mindful of injuries than of benefits and Nicetas himself was indebted for his safety to the generosity of a Venetian merchant . 
But a free scope was allowed to their avarice , which was glutted , even in the holy week , by the pillage of Constantinople . 
An order of rapine was instituted nor was the share of each individual abandoned to industry or chance . 
For violating this sacred engagement , a knight belonging to the count of St . 
Yet the magnitude of the prize surpassed the largest scale of experience or expectation . 
After the whole had been equally divided between the French and Venetians , fifty thousand marks were deducted to satisfy the debts of the former and the demands of the latter . 
Ceciderunt tamen ea die civium quasi duo millia , c . 
Arithmetic is an excellent touchstone to try the amplifications of passion and rhetoric . 
Villehardouin takes no notice of these common incidents . 
Nicetas saved , and afterwards married , a noble virgin , whom a soldier , had almost violated . 
ut tantum tota non videatur possidere Latinitas . 
Instead of , , there is a various reading of , . 
In this great revolution we enjoy the singular felicity of comparing the narratives of Villehardouin and Nicetas , the opposite feelings of the marshal of Champagne and the Byzantine senator . 
In the mean while , his desolate churches were profaned by the licentiousness and party zeal of the Latins . 
In the cathedral of St . 
The disorders of the sack of Constantinople , and his own adventures , are feelingly described by Nicetas , p . 
, and in the Status Urb . 
His complaints , even of sacrilege , are justified by Innocent III . 
Their reputation and their language encouraged them , however , to despise the ignorance and to overlook the progress of the Latins . 
Several of these are described by Nicetas , in a florid and affected style and from his descriptions I shall select some interesting particulars . 
The sphinx , river horse , and crocodile , denote the climate and manufacture of Egypt and the spoils of that ancient province . 
The she wolf suckling Romulus and Remus , a subject alike pleasing to the old and the new Romans , but which could really be treated before the decline of the Greek sculpture . 
An ass and his driver , which were erected by Augustus in his colony of Nicopolis , to commemorate a verbal omen of the victory of Actium . 
An equestrian statue which passed , in the vulgar opinion , for Joshua , the Jewish conqueror , stretching out his hand to stop the course of the descending sun . 
A more classical tradition recognized the figures of Bellerophon and Pegasus and the free attitude of the steed seemed to mark that he trod on air , rather than on the earth . 
The Phrygian shepherd presenting to Venus the prize of beauty , the apple of discord . 
A colossal statue of Juno , which had once adorned her temple of Samos , the enormous head by four yoke of oxen was laboriously drawn to the palace . 
Another colossus , of Pallas or Minerva , thirty feet in height , and representing with admirable spirit the attributes and character of the martial maid . 
Before we accuse the Latins , it is just to remark , that this Pallas was destroyed after the first siege , by the fear and superstition of the Greeks themselves . 
Of the writings of antiquity , many that still existed in the twelfth century , are now lost . 
This reproach , it is true , applies most strongly to their ignorance of Greek and of Homer . 
In their own language , the Latins of the xiith and xiiith centuries were not destitute of literature . 
See Harris's Philological Inquiries , p . 
I transcribe these proportions , which appear to me inconsistent with each other and may possibly show , that the boasted taste of Nicetas was no more than affectation and vanity . 
Nicetas in Isaaco Angelo et Alexio , c . 
The Latin editor very properly observes , that the historian , in his bombast style , produces ex pulice elephantem . 
the Latins are branded with the lively reproach and their avarice of brass is clearly expressed . 
Yet the Venetians had the merit of removing four bronze horses from Constantinople to the place of St . 
Yet in secreting this booty , the saint incurred an excommunication , and perhaps broke his oath . 
I shall conclude this chapter with the notice of a modern history , which illustrates the taking of Constantinople by the Latins but which has fallen somewhat late into my hands . 
Chapter LXI Partition Of The Empire By The French And Venetians . 
Part I. Partition Of The Empire By The French And Venetians , Five Latin Emperors Of The Houses Of Flanders And Courtenay . 
Their Wars Against The Bulgarians And Greeks . 
Weakness And Poverty Of The Latin Empire . 
Recovery Of Constantinople By The Greeks . 
General Consequences Of The Crusades . 
After the death of the lawful princes , the French and Venetians , confident of justice and victory , agreed to divide and regulate their future possessions . 
To him , with all the titles and prerogatives of the Byzantine throne , they assigned the two palaces of Boucoleon and Blachernae , with a fourth part of the Greek monarchy . 
After the conquest of Constantinople by the Latins , the treaty was confirmed and executed and the first and most important step was the creation of an emperor . 
The six Venetians were the principal servants of the state , and in this list the noble families of Querini and Contarini are still proud to discover their ancestors . 
The twelve assembled in the chapel of the palace and after the solemn invocation of the Holy Ghost , they proceeded to deliberate and vote . 
But the patriot Dandolo was devoid of all personal ambition , and fully satisfied that he had been judged worthy to reign . 
The exclusion of the doge left room for the more equal merits of Boniface and Baldwin and at their names all meaner candidates respectfully withdrew . 
Without the chapel , these barons , with the doge and marquis at their head , expected the decision of the twelve electors . 
He was saluted with loud applause , and the proclamation was reechoed through the city by the joy of the Latins , and the trembling adulation of the Greeks . 
At the end of three weeks he was crowned by the legate , in the vacancy of the patriarch but the Venetian clergy soon filled the chapter of St . 
Sophia , seated Thomas Morosini on the ecclesiastical throne , and employed every art to perpetuate in their own nation the honors and benefices of the Greek church . 
Without delay the successor of Constantine instructed Palestine , France , and Rome , of this memorable revolution . 
Prudence and dignity are blended in the answer of Innocent . 
See the original treaty of partition , in the Venetian Chronicle of Andrew Dandolo , p . 
, which has been embroidered by modern writers from Blondus to Le Beau . 
with the vain ignorance of a Greek , describes the marquis of Montferrat as a maritime power . 
Was he deceived by the Byzantine theme of Lombardy which extended along the coast of Calabria ? They exacted an oath from Thomas Morosini to appoint no canons of St . 
Sophia the lawful electors , except Venetians who had lived ten years at Venice , c . 
But the foreign clergy was envious , the pope disapproved this national monopoly , and of the six Latin patriarchs of Constantinople , only the first and the last were Venetians . 
The Epistles of Innocent III . 
are inserted in his Gesta , in Muratori , Script . 
Rerum Italicarum , , tom . 
In the division of the Greek provinces , the share of the Venetians was more ample than that of the Latin emperor . 
No more than one fourth was appropriated to his domain a clear moiety of the remainder was reserved for Venice and the other moiety was distributed among the adventures of France and Lombardy . 
The venerable Dandolo was proclaimed despot of Romania , and invested after the Greek fashion with the purple buskins . 
And thus it was that the family of Sanut acquired the duchy of Naxos , which involved the greatest part of the archipelago . 
I shall not descend to the pedigree of families and the rent roll of estates , but I wish to specify that the counts of Blois and St . 
At the head of his knights and archers , each baron mounted on horseback to secure the possession of his share , and their first efforts were generally successful . 
But the public force was weakened by their dispersion and a thousand quarrels must arise under a law , and among men , whose sole umpire was the sword . 
For the government of Constantinople , see Ducange , Histoire de C. P. i . 
Boniface sold the Isle of Candia , August , A. D. . 
See the act in Sanuto , p . 
but I cannot understand how it could be his mother's portion , or how she could be the daughter of an emperor Alexius . 
In the year , the doge Peter Zani sent a colony to Candia , drawn from every quarter of Venice . 
describe the expedition into Greece of the marquis Boniface . 
The Choniate might derive his information from his brother Michael , archbishop of Athens , whom he paints as an orator , a statesman , and a saint . 
His encomium of Athens , and the description of Tempe , should be published from the Bodleian MS . 
and would have deserved Mr. Harris's inquiries . 
I have softened the expression of Nicetas , who strives to expose the presumption of the Franks . 
See the Rebus post C. P. expugnatam , p . 
I have preferred the more convenient and modern appellation of Demotica . 
This place was the last Turkish residence of Charles XII . 
with the spirit of freedom . 
unlike some modern heroes , whose exploits are only visible in their own memoirs . 
to Le Beau , vol . 
He contrived that Robert should arrive just fifteen days too late and with the general concurrence of the assembled knights was himself invested with the principality . 
But his daughter , before the national calamity , had been given in marriage to a young hero who continued the succession , and restored the throne , of the Greek princes . 
The valor of Theodore Lascaris was signalized in the two sieges of Constantinople . 
Another portion , distant and obscure , was possessed by the lineal heir of the Comneni , a son of the virtuous Manuel , a grandson of the tyrant Andronicus . 
His name was Alexius and the epithet of great was applied perhaps to his stature , rather than to his exploits . 
But peace was banished , and industry was crushed , in the disorders of the feudal system . 
The Roman emperors of Constantinople , if they were endowed with abilities , were armed with power for the protection of their subjects their laws were wise , and their administration was simple . 
As the fears of the Greeks abated , their hatred increased . 
Neither the marshal nor the monk afford a grain of pity for a tyrant or rebel , whose punishment , however , was more unexampled than his crime . 
The column of Arcadius , which represents in basso relievo his victories , or those of his father Theodosius , is still extant at Constantinople . 
relates the dream of a matron , who saw an army in the forum , and a man sitting on the column , clapping his hands , and uttering a loud exclamation . 
Note We read in the Chronicle of the Conquest of Constantinople , and of the Establishment of the French in the Morea , translated by J A Buchon , Paris , , p . 
, called the Philosopher , had prophesied that a perfidious emperor should be precipitated from the top of this column . 
The crusaders considered themselves under an obligation to fulfil this prophecy . 
Brosset , note on Le Beau , vol . 
are learnedly explored , and clearly represented , in the Familiae Byzantinae of Ducange . 
This was a title , not a personal appellation . 
Joinville speaks of the Grant Comnenie , et sire de Traffezzontes . 
! On the revolutions of Trebizond under the later empire down to this period , see Fallmerayer , Geschichte des Kaiserthums von Trapezunt , ch . 
The wife of Manuel fled with her infant sons and her treasure from the relentless enmity of Isaac Angelus . 
Fallmerayer conjectures that her arrival enabled the Greeks of that region to make head against the formidable Thamar , the Georgian queen of Teflis , p . 
They gradually formed a dominion on the banks of the Phasis , which the distracted government of the Angeli neglected or were unable to suppress . 
On the capture of Constantinople by the Latins , Alexius was joined by many noble fugitives from Constantinople . 
He had always retained the name of Caesar . 
He now fixed the seat of his empire at Trebizond but he had never abandoned his pretensions to the Byzantine throne , ch . 
Fallmerayer appears to make out a triumphant case as to the assumption of the royal title by Alexius the First . 
It gives the succession of the emperors , and some other curious circumstances of their wars with the several Mahometan powers . 
M. ! ! The successor of Alexius was his son in law Andronicus I. , of the Comnenian family , surnamed Gidon . 
There were five successions between Alexius and John , according to Fallmerayer , p . 
The troops of Trebizond fought in the army of Dschelaleddin , the Karismian , against Alleddin , the Seljukian sultan of Roum , but as allies rather than vassals , p . 
It was after the defeat of Dschelaleddin that they furnished their contingent to Alai eddin . 
Fallmerayer struggles in vain to mitigate this mark of the subjection of the Comneni to the sultan . 
M. The portrait of the French Latins is drawn in Nicetas by the hand of prejudice and resentment . 
The Latin conquerors had been saluted with a solemn and early embassy from John , or Joannice , or Calo John , the revolted chief of the Bulgarians and Walachians . 
From Demotica , the first scene of the massacre , the surviving vassals of the count of St . 
he was cherished at Rome as the prodigal son . 
The Comans were a Tartar or Turkman horde , which encamped in the xiith and xiiith centuries on the verge of Moldavia . 
But the spirit of chivalry could seldom discriminate caution from cowardice and the emperor took the field with a hundred and forty knights , and their train of archers and sergeants . 
This wise injunction was first disobeyed by the count of Blois , who involved the emperor in his rashness and ruin . 
Note Gibbon appears to me to have misapprehended the passage of Nicetas . 
He says , that principal and subtlest mischief . 
that primary cause of all the horrible miseries suffered by the Romans , i . 
It is an effusion of malicious triumph against the Venetians , to whom he always ascribes the capture of Constantinople . 
M. Chapter LXI Partition Of The Empire By The French And Venetians . 
Proud of his victory and his royal prize , the Bulgarian advanced to relieve Adrianople and achieve the destruction of the Latins . 
On the third day , the weary troops beheld the sea , the solitary town of Rodosta , and their friends , who had landed from the Asiatic shore . 
If the Comans withdrew from the summer heats , seven thousand Latins , in the hour of danger , deserted Constantinople , their brethren , and their vows . 
About twenty years afterwards , in a wood of the Netherlands , a hermit announced himself as the true Baldwin , the emperor of Constantinople , and lawful sovereign of Flanders . 
and their omissions are supplied by Ducange in his Observations , and to the end of his first book . 
After brushing away all doubtful and improbable circumstances , we may prove the death of Baldwin , . 
By the firm belief of the French barons , . 
Geschichte der Hohenstaufen , vol . 
Petitot , in his preface to Villehardouin in the Collection des Memoires , relatifs a l'Histoire de France , tom . 
, expresses his belief in the first part of the tragic legend . 
M. See the story of this impostor from the French and Flemish writers in Ducange , Hist . 
and the ridiculous fables that were believed by the monks of St . 
Alban's , in Matthew Paris , Hist . 
His moderation was applauded by the Greeks as an act of rare and inimitable virtue . 
In the support of the Eastern empire , Henry was gradually left without an associate , as the heroes of the crusade retired from the world or from the war . 
The doge of Venice , the venerable Dandolo , in the fulness of years and glory , sunk into the grave . 
The marquis of Montferrat was slowly recalled from the Peloponnesian war to the revenge of Baldwin and the defence of Thessalonica . 
He soon deplored the loss of his friend and father . 
At the persuasion of some faithful Greeks , Boniface made a bold and successful inroad among the hills of Rhodope the Bulgarians fled on his approach they assembled to harass his retreat . 
But such efforts , and some supplies of men and money from France , were of less avail than the errors , the cruelty , and death , of their most formidable adversary . 
They raised a cry of grief and repentance to the throne of Henry the emperor alone had the magnanimity to forgive and trust them . 
After several victories , the prudence of Henry concluded an honorable peace with the successor of the tyrant , and with the Greek princes of Nice and Epirus . 
It was the aim of Henry to unite and reward his deserving subjects , of every nation and language but he appeared less solicitous to accomplish the impracticable union of the two churches . 
In the cathedral of St . 
Sophia he presumed to place his throne on the right hand of the patriarch and this presumption excited the sharpest censure of Pope Innocent the Third . 
I quote , with regret , this lamentable conclusion , where we lose at once the original history , and the rich illustrations of Ducange . 
The last pages may derive some light from Henry's two epistles to Innocent III . 
On the advance of the Latins , John suddenly broke up his camp and retreated . 
The Latins considered this unexpected deliverance almost a miracle . 
Le Beau suggests the probability that the detection of the Comans , who usually quitted the camp during the heats of summer , may have caused the flight of the Bulgarians . 
observes the persecution of the legate , and the toleration of Henry , . 
who is much indebted to the Epistles of the Popes . 
has found , perhaps in Doutreman , some laws of Henry , which determined the service of fiefs , and the prerogatives of the emperor . 
The virtuous Henry died at Thessalonica , in the defence of that kingdom , and of an infant , the son of his friend Boniface . 
In the two first emperors of Constantinople the male line of the counts of Flanders was extinct . 
The royal birth of his father , the noble origin of his mother , recommended to the barons of France the first cousin of their king . 
His reputation was fair , his possessions were ample , and in the bloody crusade against the Albigeois , the soldiers and the priests had been abundantly satisfied of his zeal and valor . 
Vanity might applaud the elevation of a French emperor of Constantinople but prudence must pity , rather than envy , his treacherous and imaginary greatness . 
To assert and adorn his title , he was reduced to sell or mortgage the best of his patrimony . 
After discharging his debt by a fruitless assault , the emperor raised the siege to prosecute a long and perilous journey over land from Durazzo to Thessalonica . 
No sooner was he satisfied by the deliverance of the priests and a promise of spiritual obedience , than he pardoned and protected the despot of Epirus . 
affirms , that Peter of Courtenay died by the sword , but from his dark expressions , I should conclude a previous captivity . 
The Chronicle of Auxerre delays the emperor's death till the year and Auxerre is in the neighborhood of Courtenay . 
Note Whatever may have been the fact , this can hardly be made out from the expressions of Acropolita . 
who feebly strives to excuse the neglect of the emperor by Honorius III . 
The long ignorance of his fate , and the presence of the lawful sovereign , of Yolande , his wife or widow , delayed the proclamation of a new emperor . 
His birth endeared him to the barons of Romania but his childhood would have prolonged the troubles of a minority , and his claims were superseded by the elder claims of his brethren . 
But his reign was an aera of calamity and disgrace and the colony , as it was styled , of New France yielded on all sides to the Greeks of Nice and Epirus . 
But the success of a foreign enemy was less painful to the pusillanimous Robert than the insolence of his Latin subjects , who confounded the weakness of the emperor and of the empire . 
His personal misfortunes will prove the anarchy of the government and the ferociousness of the times . 
Instead of punishing the offender , the barons avowed and applauded the savage deed , which , as a prince and as a man , it was impossible that Robert should forgive . 
is so much delighted with this bloody deed , that he has transcribed it in his margin as a bonum exemplum . 
Yet he acknowledges the damsel for the lawful wife of Robert . 
It was only in the age of chivalry , that valor could ascend from a private station to the thrones of Jerusalem and Constantinople . 
The titular kingdom of Jerusalem had devolved to Mary , the daughter of Isabella and Conrad of Montferrat , and the granddaughter of Almeric or Amaury . 
Fired by his example , the infantry and the citizens boarded the vessels that anchored close to the walls and twenty five were dragged in triumph into the harbor of Constantinople . 
The empire was soon deprived of the last of her champions and the dying monarch was ambitious to enter paradise in the habit of a Franciscan friar . 
in bellis securum , in agendis providum , Johannem comitem Brennensem . 
discusses the marriage of Frederic II . 
with the daughter of John of Brienne , and the double union of the crowns of Naples and Jerusalem . 
The historian was at that time a boy , and educated at Constantinople . 
John de Brienne , elected emperor , wasted two years in preparations , and did not arrive at Constantinople till . 
Two years more glided away in inglorious inaction he then made some ineffective warlike expeditions . 
Constantinople was not besieged till . 
, for the prowess of John of Brienne . 
See the reign of John de Brienne , in Ducange , Hist . 
After some delay , Baldwin , however , was permitted to pursue his journey , was entertained with cold civility , and thankfully departed with a present of seven hundred marks . 
From the avarice of Rome he could only obtain the proclamation of a crusade , and a treasure of indulgences a coin whose currency was depreciated by too frequent and indiscriminate abuse . 
By such shameful or ruinous expedients , he once more returned to Romania , with an army of thirty thousand soldiers , whose numbers were doubled in the apprehension of the Greeks . 
the frontier would be safe and the passage accessible . 
Some usurious loans were dealt with a scanty hand by the merchants of Italy and Philip , his son and heir , was pawned at Venice as the security for a debt . 
See the reign of Baldwin II . 
till his expulsion from Constantinople , in Ducange , Hist . 
Matthew Paris relates the two visits of Baldwin II . 
to the English court , p . 
, his return to Greece armata manu , p . 
his letters of his nomen formidabile , c . 
, his expulsion , p . 
to the family of Boulainvilliers . 
A Coman prince , who died without baptism , was buried at the gates of Constantinople with a live retinue of slaves and horses . 
Chapter LXI Partition Of The Empire By The French And Venetians . 
But in this abject distress , the emperor and empire were still possessed of an ideal treasure , which drew its fantastic value from the superstition of the Christian world . 
But another relic of the Passion was preserved in the Imperial chapel of Constantinople and the crown of thorns which had been placed on the head of Christ was equally precious and authentic . 
Yet the negotiation was attended with some delicacy . 
His ambassadors , two Dominicans , were despatched to Venice to redeem and receive the holy crown which had escaped the dangers of the sea and the galleys of Vataces . 
For the reception of these spiritual treasures , twenty thousand marks were expended by St . 
Louis on a stately foundation , the holy chapel of Paris , on which the muse of Boileau has bestowed a comic immortality . 
The truth of such remote and ancient relics , which cannot be proved by any human testimony , must be admitted by those who believe in the miracles which they have performed . 
Under the words Perparus , Perpera , Hyperperum , Ducange is short and vague Monetae genus . 
I guess that the Perpera was the nummus aureus , the fourth part of a mark of silver , or about ten shillings sterling in value . 
In lead it would be too contemptible . 
For the translation of the holy crown , c . 
Melanges tires d'une Grande Bibliotheque , tom . 
It was performed A. D. , March , on the niece of Pascal and that superior genius , with Arnauld , Nicole , c . 
with more skill and success , seizes the battery , and turns the cannon against his enemies . 
From the Propontis to the rocky coast of Pamphylia , Asia was peaceful and prosperous under his reign and the events of every campaign extended his influence in Europe . 
His own subjects were exasperated by his baseness and incapacity they implored the protection of their supreme lord . 
After some resistance , the kingdom of Thessalonica was united to the empire of Nice and Vataces reigned without a competitor from the Turkish borders to the Adriatic Gulf . 
The princes of Europe revered his merit and power and had he subscribed an orthodox creed , it should seem that the pope would have abandoned without reluctance the Latin throne of Constantinople . 
But the death of Vataces , the short and busy reign of Theodore his son , and the helpless infancy of his grandson John , suspended the restoration of the Greeks . 
The emperor Baldwin had flattered himself , that he might recover some provinces or cities by an impotent negotiation . 
His ambassadors were dismissed from Nice with mockery and contempt . 
And what then do you propose to give us ? said the astonished deputies . 
Nothing , replied the Greek , not a foot of land . 
If your master be desirous of peace , let him pay me , as an annual tribute , the sum which he receives from the trade and customs of Constantinople . 
On these terms , I may allow him to reign . 
If he refuses , it is war . 
I am not ignorant of the art of war , and I trust the event to God and my sword . 
An expedition against the despot of Epirus was the first prelude of his arms . 
The republics of Venice and Genoa disputed , in the first of their naval wars , the command of the sea and the commerce of the East . 
two impartial foreigners and Urban IV threatened to deprive Genoa of her archbishop . 
Intent on his great object , the emperor Michael visited in person and strengthened the troops and fortifications of Thrace . 
His instructions enjoined him to approach , to listen , to watch , but not to risk any doubtful or dangerous enterprise against the city . 
They were informed that Alexius had passed the Hellespont but their apprehensions were lulled by the smallness of his original numbers and their imprudence had not watched the subsequent increase of his army . 
If he left his main body to second and support his operations , he might advance unperceived in the night with a chosen detachment . 
the Greeks and Scythians of Acropolita and the numerous army of Michael , in the Epistles of Pope Urban IV . 
It is needless to seek these Comans in the deserts of Tartary , or even of Moldavia . 
According to several authorities , particularly Abulfaradj . 
, this was a stratagem on the part of the Greeks to weaken the garrison of Constantinople . 
The Greek commander offered to surrender the town on the appearance of the Venetians . 
Nicephorus Gregoras , See Ducange , Hist . 
and the genealogical tables of Ducange . 
It is uncertain whether he left any posterity . 
As soon as the arms of the Franks were withdrawn , the impression , though not the memory , was erased in the Mahometan realms of Egypt and Syria . 
The Greeks , who thought themselves proud , but who were only vain , showed a disposition somewhat less inflexible . 
In the efforts for the recovery of their empire , they emulated the valor , discipline , and tactics of their antagonists . 
The correspondence of Constantinople and Italy diffused the knowledge of the Latin tongue and several of the fathers and classics were at length honored with a Greek version . 
But the national and religious prejudices of the Orientals were inflamed by persecution , and the reign of the Latins confirmed the separation of the two churches . 
has translated Caesar's Commentaries , the Somnium Scipionis , the Metamorphoses and Heroides of Ovid , c . 
The principle of the crusades was a savage fanaticism and the most important effects were analogous to the cause . 
Each pilgrim was ambitious to return with his sacred spoils , the relics of Greece and Palestine and each relic was preceded and followed by a train of miracles and visions . 
If Bacon himself , or Gerbert , understood some Greek , they were prodigies , and owed nothing to the commerce of the East . 
a master of the history of the middle ages . 
I shall only instance the pedigree of the Carmelites , and the flight of the house of Loretto , which were both derived from Palestine . 
Chapter LXI Partition Of The Empire By The French And Venetians . 
In one respect I can indeed perceive the accidental operation of the crusades , not so much in producing a benefit as in removing an evil . 
This oppressive system was supported by the arts of the clergy and the swords of the barons . 
Among the causes that undermined that Gothic edifice , a conspicuous place must be allowed to the crusades . 
The estates of the barons were dissipated , and their race was often extinguished , in these costly and perilous expeditions . 
The conflagration which destroyed the tall and barren trees of the forest gave air and scope to the vegetation of the smaller and nutritive plants of the soil . 
On the consequences of the crusades , compare the valuable Essay of Reeren , that of M. Choiseul d'Aillecourt , and a chapter of Mr. Forster's Mahometanism Unveiled . 
I may admire this gentleman's learning and industry , without pledging myself to his wild theory of prophets interpretation . 
M. Digression On The Family Of Courtenay . 
Of England of which the last only has survived the revolutions of eight hundred years . 
I. Before the introduction of trade , which scatters riches , and of knowledge , which dispels prejudice , the prerogative of birth is most strongly felt and most humbly acknowledged . 
His son and successor , of the same name , was less deficient in valor than in vigilance but he sometimes forgot that dominion is acquired and maintained by the same arms . 
The primitive record of the family is a passage of the continuator of Aimoin , a monk of Fleury , who wrote in the xiith century . 
Turbessel , or , as it is now styled , Telbesher , is fixed by D'Anville four and twenty miles from the great passage over the Euphrates at Zeugma . 
among the feudal tenures of the kingdom , which must therefore have been collected between the years and . 
His pedigree may be found in the Lignages d'Outremer , c . 
A descendant of Reginald of Courtenay may blush for the public robber , who stripped and imprisoned several merchants , after they had satisfied the king's duties at Sens and Orleans . 
Reginald bestowed his estates on his eldest daughter , and his daughter on the seventh son of King Louis the Fat and their marriage was crowned with a numerous offspring . 
But this legitimate claim was long neglected , and finally denied and the causes of their disgrace will represent the story of this second branch . 
In the age of the crusades , it was already revered both in the East and West . 
The shame was far more permanent than the reward , and a momentary blaze was followed by a long darkness . 
To support the expenses of a troubled and transitory reign , their patrimonial estates were mortgaged or sold and the last emperors of Constantinople depended on the annual charity of Rome and Naples . 
In the beginning of the xith century , after naming the father and grandfather of Hugh Capet , the monk Glaber is obliged to add , cujus genus valde in ante reperitur obscurum . 
a noble Frank of Neustria , Neustricus . 
generosae stirpis , who was slain in the defence of his country against the Normans , dum patriae fines tuebatur . 
Beyond Robert , all is conjecture or fable . 
It is a probable conjecture , that the third race descended from the second by Childebrand , the brother of Charles Martel . 
It is an absurd fable that the second was allied to the first by the marriage of Ansbert , a Roman senator and the ancestor of St . 
Arnoul , with Blitilde , a daughter of Clotaire I. The Saxon origin of the house of France is an ancient but incredible opinion . 
He had promised to declare his own opinion in a second memoir , which has never appeared . 
The more adventurous embraced without dishonor the profession of a soldier the least active and opulent might sink , like their cousins of the branch of Dreux , into the condition of peasants . 
But every ear was deaf , and every circumstance was adverse , to their lawful claims . 
Louis as the first father of the royal line . 
A repetition of complaints and protests was repeatedly disregarded and the hopeless pursuit was terminated in the present century by the death of the last male of the family . 
Of the various petitions , apologies , c . 
, published by the princes of Courtenay , I have seen the three following , all in octavo . 
De Stirpe et Origine Domus de Courtenay addita sunt Responsa celeberrimorum Europae Jurisconsultorum Paris , . 
Representation du subject qui a porte Messieurs de Salles et de Fraville , de la Maison de Courtenay , a se retirer hors du Royaume , . 
It was a homicide , for which the Courtenays expected to be pardoned , or tried , as princes of the blood . 
A distinction of expediency rather than justice . 
The sanctity of Louis IX . 
could not invest him with any special prerogative , and all the descendants of Hugh Capet must be included in his original compact with the French nation . 
The last male of the Courtenays was Charles Roger , who died in the year , without leaving any sons . 
The last female was Helene de Courtenay , who married Louis de Beaufremont . 
Her title of Princesse du Sang Royal de France was suppressed by an arret of the parliament of Paris . 
and the unknown editor quotes his author , who had received it from Helene de Courtenay , marquise de Beaufremont . 
According to the old register of Ford Abbey , the Courtenays of Devonshire are descended from Prince Florus , the second son of Peter , and the grandson of Louis the Fat . 
But their losses , in this sense , were far superior to their gifts and expenses and their heirs , not less than the poor , were the objects of their paternal care . 
The sums which they paid for livery and seizin attest the greatness of their possessions and several estates have remained in their family since the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries . 
In war , the Courtenays of England fulfilled the duties , and deserved the honors , of chivalry . 
In the quarrel of the two roses , the earls of Devon adhered to the house of Lancaster and three brothers successively died either in the field or on the scaffold . 
Their estates have been increased by the grant and improvement of lands in Ireland , and they have been recently restored to the honors of the peerage . 
Yet the Courtenays still retain the plaintive motto , which asserts the innocence , and deplores the fall , of their ancient house . 
Dugdale , Monasticon Anglicanum , vol . 
Yet this fable must have been invented before the reign of Edward III . 
In his Britannia , in the list of the earls of Devonshire . 
His expression , e regio sanguine ortos , credunt , betrays , however , some doubt or suspicion . 
In his Baronage , P. i . 
, he refers to his own Monasticon . 
By some it is assigned to a Rivers earl of Devon but the English denotes the xvth , rather than the xiiith century . 
Ubi lapsus ! ) Quid feci ? a motto which was probably adopted by the Powderham branch , after the loss of the earldom of Devonshire , c . 
The primitive arms of the Courtenays were , Or , three torteaux , Gules , which seem to denote their affinity with Godfrey of Bouillon , and the ancient counts of Boulogne . 
Chapter LXII Greek Emperors Of Nice And Constantinople . 
Part I. The Greek Emperors Of Nice And Constantinople . 
Elevation And Reign Of Michael Palaeologus . 
His False Union With The Pope And The Latin Church . 
Hostile Designs Of Charles Of Anjou . 
War Of The Catalans In Asia And Greece . 
Revolutions And Present State Of Athens . 
The loss of Constantinople restored a momentary vigor to the Greeks . 
The difference of their virtues was happily suited to the diversity of their situation . 
A victorious reign of eighteen years expanded the principality of Nice to the magnitude of an empire . 
But his interior and peaceful administration is still more deserving of notice and praise . 
by the favors of the court . 
His frailty was censured as a flagitious and damnable sin by the monks and their rude invectives exercised and displayed the patience of the royal lover . 
Yet the history of Nicephorus Gregoras , though of the xivth century , is a valuable narrative from the taking of Constantinople by the Latins . 
distinguishes between Lascaris , and Vataces . 
The two portraits are in a very good style . 
The reader of the Byzantines must observe how rarely we are indulged with such precious details . 
The emperor , in a familiar conversation , examined and encouraged the studies of his future logothete . 
Sister of Manfred , afterwards king of Naples . 
and the two first books of Nicephorus Gregoras . 
The emperor half unsheathed his cimeter but his more deliberate rage reserved Acropolita for a baser punishment . 
One of the first officers of the empire was ordered to dismount , stripped of his robes , and extended on the ground in the presence of the prince and army . 
The cruelty of the emperor was exasperated by the pangs of sickness , the approach of a premature end , and the suspicion of poison and magic . 
A matron of the family of the Palaeologi had provoked his anger by refusing to bestow her beauteous daughter on the vile plebeian who was recommended by his caprice . 
Eight days were sufficient to prepare the execution of the conspiracy . 
A Persian saying , that Cyrus was the father and Darius the master , of his subjects , was applied to Vataces and his son . 
has mistaken the mild Darius for the cruel Cambyses , despot or tyrant of his people . 
seems to admire his own firmness in sustaining a beating , and not returning to council till he was called . 
He relates the exploits of Theodore , and his own services , from c . 
See the third book of Nicephorus Gregoras . 
names and discriminates fifteen or twenty Greek families . 
Does he mean , by this decoration , a figurative or a real golden chain ? Perhaps , both . 
Palaeologus eluded the dangerous experiment with sense and pleasantry . 
Your piety , most holy prelate , may deserve the interposition of Heaven , and from your hands I will receive the fiery globe , the pledge of my innocence . 
The archbishop started the emperor smiled and the absolution or pardon of Michael was approved by new rewards and new services . 
with visible favor to the father of the reigning dynasty . 
relates the circumstances of this curious adventure , which seem to have escaped the more recent writers . 
who speaks with proper contempt of this barbarous trial , affirms , that he had seen in his youth many person who had sustained , without injury , the fiery ordeal . 
As a Greek , he is credulous but the ingenuity of the Greeks might furnish some remedies of art or fraud against their own superstition , or that of their tyrant . 
But his innocence had been too unworthily treated , and his power was too strongly felt , to curb an aspiring subject in the fair field that was opened to his ambition . 
By himself , or by his emissaries , he strove to persuade every rank of subjects , that their own prosperity would rise in just proportion to the establishment of his authority . 
The weight of taxes was suspended , the perpetual theme of popular complaint and he prohibited the trials by the ordeal and judicial combat . 
These Barbaric institutions were already abolished or undermined in France and England and the appeal to the sword offended the sense of a civilized , and the temper of an unwarlike , people . 
Conscious of the influence of the clergy , Michael successfully labored to secure the suffrage of that powerful order . 
He was first invested with the title and prerogatives of despot , which bestowed the purple ornaments and the second place in the Roman monarchy . 
Palaeologus was content but , on the day of the coronation , and in the cathedral of Nice , his zealous adherents most vehemently urged the just priority of his age and merit . 
A full harvest of honors and employments was distributed among his friends by the grateful Palaeologus . 
which pursues the ascent of Palaeologus with eloquence , perspicuity , and tolerable freedom . 
Acropolita is more cautious , and Gregoras more concise . 
The judicial combat was abolished by St . 
In civil cases Henry II . 
gave an option to the defendant Glanville prefers the proof by evidence and that by judicial combat is reprobated in the Fleta . 
Yet the trial by battle has never been abrogated in the English law , and it was ordered by the judges as late as the beginning of the last century . 
Note And even demanded in the present M. Yet an ingenious friend has urged to me in mitigation of this practice , . 
That in nations emerging from barbarism , it moderates the license of private war and arbitrary revenge . 
That it is less absurd than the trials by the ordeal , or boiling water , or the cross , which it has contributed to abolish . 
A general assembly of the bishops , senators , and nobles , was immediately convened , and never perhaps was an event received with more heartfelt and universal joy . 
In a studied oration , the new sovereign of Constantinople congratulated his own and the public fortune . 
There was a time , said he , a far distant time , when the Roman empire extended to the Adriatic , the Tigris , and the confines of Aethiopia . 
After the loss of the provinces , our capital itself , in these last and calamitous days , has been wrested from our hands by the Barbarians of the West . 
So eager was the impatience of the prince and people , that Michael made his triumphal entry into Constantinople only twenty days after the expulsion of the Latins . 
But after the first transport of devotion and pride , he sighed at the dreary prospect of solitude and ruin . 
Trade had expired under the pressure of anarchy and distress , and the numbers of inhabitants had decreased with the opulence of the city . 
The French barons and the principal families had retired with their emperor but the patient and humble crowd of Latins was attached to the country , and indifferent to the change of masters . 
Their independent colony was first planted at the seaport town of Heraclea in Thrace . 
The site of Nymphaeum is not clearly defined in ancient or modern geography . 
it is evident the palace and gardens of his favorite residence were in the neighborhood of Smyrna . 
This sceptre , the emblem of justice and power , was a long staff , such as was used by the heroes in Homer . 
believes that it was the high crowned hat of the Greeks . 
Sophia and the name and honors of John Lascaris , his pupil and lawful sovereign , were insensibly abolished . 
But his claims still lived in the minds of the people and the royal youth must speedily attain the years of manhood and ambition . 
After a short abdication of his dignity , Arsenius had consented to ascend the ecclesiastical throne of Constantinople , and to preside in the restoration of the church . 
His pious simplicity was long deceived by the arts of Palaeologus and his patience and submission might soothe the usurper , and protect the safety of the young prince . 
On the news of his inhuman treatment , the patriarch unsheathed the spiritual sword and superstition , on this occasion , was enlisted in the cause of humanity and justice . 
The Eastern prelates had not adopted the dangerous maxims of ancient Rome nor did they presume to enforce their censures , by deposing princes , or absolving nations from their oaths of allegiance . 
Do you require , said Michael , that I should abdicate the empire ? and at these words , he offered , or seemed to offer , the sword of state . 
His confession and penance restored their freedom . 
Chapter LXII Greek Emperors Of Nice And Constantinople . 
But the spirit of Arsenius still survived in a powerful faction of the monks and clergy , who persevered about forty eight years in an obstinate schism . 
Their scruples were treated with tenderness and respect by Michael and his son and the reconciliation of the Arsenites was the serious labor of the church and state . 
Alas ! the two papers were indiscriminately consumed , and this unforeseen accident produced the union of a day , and renewed the quarrel of an age . 
It was pleaded , in favor of Arsenius , among other proofs of the sultan's Christianity , that he had offered to eat ham . 
It was after his exile that he was involved in a charge of conspiracy . 
he was one of the commissaries who visited him in the desert island . 
The story of the Arsenites is spread through the thirteen books of Pachymer . 
who neither loves nor esteems these sectaries . 
This effusion of Christian blood was loudly condemned by the patriarch and the insolent priest presumed to interpose his fears and scruples between the arms of princes . 
contain the reign of Michael , at the time of whose death he was forty years of age . 
Instead of breaking , like his editor the Pere Poussin , his history into two parts , I follow Ducange and Cousin , who number the xiii . 
was the only basis of friendship and alliance . 
He protested that he would sacrifice his life and empire rather than yield the smallest point of orthodox faith or national independence and this declaration was sealed and ratified by a golden bull . 
An embassy was composed of some trusty ministers and prelates they embarked for Italy , with rich ornaments and rare perfumes for the altar of St . 
Peter and their secret orders authorized and recommended a boundless compliance . 
They were received in the general council of Lyons , by Pope Gregory the Tenth , at the head of five hundred bishops . 
, from the Epistles of Urban IV . 
In this class we may place Pachymer himself , whose copious and candid narrative occupies the vth and vith books of his history . 
See the acts of the council of Lyons in the year . 
But they found a country without a friend , a nation in which the names of Rome and Union were pronounced with abhorrence . 
His favorite generals , of his own blood , and family , successively deserted , or betrayed , the sacrilegious trust . 
To the pope's nuncios , who urged the consummation of the work , Palaeologus exposed a naked recital of all that he had done and suffered for their sake . 
They were conducted to the prison , to behold four princes of the royal blood chained in the four corners , and shaking their fetters in an agony of grief and rage . 
According to Fallmarayer he had always maintained this title . 
M. This frank and authentic confession of Michael's distress is exhibited in barbarous Latin by Ogerius , who signs himself Protonotarius Interpretum , and transcribed by Wading from the MSS . 
His annals of the Franciscan order , the Fratres Minores , in xvii . 
I have now accidentally seen among the waste paper of a bookseller . 
See the vith book of Pachymer , particularly the chapters , , , , . 
He is the more credible , as he speaks of this persecution with less anger than sorrow . 
is a curious record , which proves that if the Greeks were the slaves of the emperor , the emperor was not less the slave of superstition and the clergy . 
Naples and Sicily were immediately peopled with a warlike race of French nobles and their aspiring leader embraced the future conquest of Africa , Greece , and Palestine . 
Louis , who still preserved a just ascendant over the mind of his ferocious brother . 
A second respite was obtained by the last crusade of St . 
Louis to the African coast and the double motive of interest and duty urged the king of Naples to assist , with his powers and his presence , the holy enterprise . 
which are published by Muratori in the viiith and xiiith volumes of the Historians of Italy . 
he has abridged these great events which are likewise described in the Istoria Civile of Giannone . 
, , , and Nicephorus Gregoras , l . 
Among the proscribed adherents of the house of Swabia , John of Procida forfeited a small island of that name in the Bay of Naples . 
Fortune had left him nothing to lose , except life and to despise life is the first qualification of a rebel . 
In the confidence of foreign aid , he successively visited the courts of the Greek emperor , and of Peter king of Arragon , who possessed the maritime countries of Valentia and Catalonia . 
Peter from the house of Anjou to that of Arragon . 
The mine was prepared with deep and dangerous artifice but it may be questioned , whether the instant explosion of Palermo were the effect of accident or design . 
The reader for gives the Jesuit's defects , in favor , always of his style , and often of his sense . 
See Hallam's Middle Ages , vol . 
M. On the vigil of Easter , a procession of the disarmed citizens visited a church without the walls and a noble damsel was rudely insulted by a French soldier . 
Feeble in themselves , and yet hopeless of foreign succor , the citizens would have repented , and submitted on the assurance of full pardon and their ancient privileges . 
I will breakfast at Milan , and dine at Naples . 
may perhaps arrive in Sicily for vespers . 
the one a contemporary , the other of the next century . 
admires the wisdom of Providence in this equal balance of states and princes . 
For the honor of Palaeologus , I had rather this balance had been observed by an Italian writer . 
See the Chronicle of Villani , the xith volume of the Annali d'Italia of Muratori , and the xxth and xxist books of the Istoria Civile of Giannone . 
Chapter LXII Greek Emperors Of Nice And Constantinople . 
After the peace of Sicily , many thousands of Genoese , Catalans , c . 
, who had fought , by sea and land , under the standard of Anjou or Arragon , were blended into one nation by the resemblance of their manners and interest . 
Roger de Flor was the most popular of their chiefs and his personal merit overshadowed the dignity of his prouder rivals of Arragon . 
A palace was allotted for his reception , and a niece of the emperor was given in marriage to the valiant stranger , who was immediately created great duke or admiral of Romania . 
But after a short season of prosperity , the cloud of slavery and ruin again burst on that unhappy province . 
from the smoke into the flames and the hostility of the Turks was less pernicious than the friendship of the Catalans . 
The threats and complaints of Andronicus disclosed the nakedness of the empire . 
Assassination is the last resource of cowards . 
The loss of their leader intimidated the crowd of adventurers , who hoisted the sails of flight , and were soon scattered round the coasts of the Mediterranean . 
After their separation from the Turks , the remains of the great company pursued their march through Macedonia and Thessaly , to seek a new establishment in the heart of Greece . 
In this motley multitude , the Catalans and Spaniards , the bravest of the soldiery , were styled by themselves and the Greeks Amogavares . 
from the Arabs and in spite of national and religious pride , I am afraid the latter is in the right . 
This narrative enables us to detect some slight errors which have crept into that of Gibbon . 
M. ! Ramon de Montaner suppresses the cruelties and oppressions of the Catalans , in which , perhaps , he shared . 
who describes the progressive degradation of the gold coin . 
Even in the prosperous times of John Ducas Vataces , the byzants were composed in equal proportions of the pure and the baser metal . 
The poverty of Michael Palaeologus compelled him to strike a new coin , with nine parts , or carats , of gold , and fifteen of copper alloy . 
After his death , the standard rose to ten carats , till in the public distress it was reduced to the moiety . 
The prince was relieved for a moment , while credit and commerce were forever blasted . 
and the standard of England and Holland is still higher . 
Roger de Flor , according to Ramon de Montaner , was recalled from Natolia , on account of the war which had arisen on the death of Asan , king of Bulgaria . 
Andronicus claimed the kingdom for his nephew , the sons of Asan by his sister . 
Roger de Flor turned the tide of success in favor of the emperor of Constantinople and made peace . 
M. Andronicus paid the Catalans in the debased money , much to their indignation . 
M. ! ! According to Ramon de Montaner , he was murdered by order of Kyr Michael , son of the emperor . 
This lasted for five merry years . 
According to this book the plunder was shared , of which he had a fifth for his trouble . 
M. The Catalan war is most copiously related by Pachymer , in the xith , xiith , and xiiith books , till he breaks off in the year . 
is more concise and complete . 
G. The autobiography of Ramon de Montaner has been published in French by M. Buchon , in the great collection of Memoires relatifs a l'Histoire de France . 
M. After some ages of oblivion , Greece was awakened to new misfortunes by the arms of the Latins . 
The Catalans amounted to no more than three thousand five hundred horse , and four thousand foot but the deficiency of numbers was compensated by stratagem and order . 
After the French and Catalans , the third dynasty was that of the Accaioli , a family , plebeian at Florence , potent at Naples , and sovereign in Greece . 
See the laborious history of Ducange , whose accurate table of the French dynasties recapitulates the thirty five passages , in which he mentions the dukes of Athens . 
and under the first passage , Ducange observes all that can be known of his person and family . 
From these Latin princes of the xivth century , Boccace , Chaucer . 
and Shakspeare , have borrowed their Theseus duke of Athens . 
An ignorant age transfers its own language and manners to the most distant times . 
By the Latins , the lord of Thebes was styled , by corruption , the Megas Kurios , or Grand Sire ! Quodam miraculo , says Alberic . 
Note Nicetas says expressly that Michael surrendered the Acropolis to the marquis . 
About the middle of the last century , the Athenians chose for their protector the Kislar Aga , or chief black eunuch of the seraglio . 
The Athenians walk with supine indifference among the glorious ruins of antiquity and such is the debasement of their character , that they are incapable of admiring the genius of their predecessors . 
The first of these travellers visited Greece in the year the last , and ninety years had not produced much difference in the tranquil scene . 
The ancients , or at least the Athenians , believed that all the bees in the world had been propagated from Mount Hymettus . 
, who quotes for his author Theodosius Zygomalas , a modern grammarian . 
no incompetent judges , entertain a more favorable opinion of the Attic dialect . 
Yet we must not accuse them of corrupting the name of Athens , which they still call Athini . 
We have formed our own barbarism of Setines . 
Note Gibbon did not foresee a Bavarian prince on the throne of Greece , with Athens as his capital . 
M. Chapter LXIII Civil Wars And The Ruin Of The Greek Empire . 
Part I. Civil Wars , And Ruin Of The Greek Empire . 
Reigns Of Andronicus , The Elder And Younger , And John Palaeologus . 
Regency , Revolt , Reign , And Abdication Of John Cantacuzene . 
Establishment Of A Genoese Colony At Pera Or Galata . 
Their Wars With The Empire And City Of Constantinople . 
The long reign of Andronicus the elder is chiefly memorable by the disputes of the Greek church , the invasion of the Catalans , and the rise of the Ottoman power . 
Driven from the throne by the universal clamor , Athanasius composed before his retreat two papers of a very opposite cast . 
This last paper he enclosed in an earthen pot , which was placed , by his order , on the top of one of the pillars , in the dome of St . 
Sophia , in the distant hope of discovery and revenge . 
At the dead of night , a monk rudely knocked at the door of the royal bed chamber , announcing a revelation of plague and famine , of inundations and earthquakes . 
Andronicus started from his bed , and spent the night in prayer , till he felt , or thought that he felt , a slight motion of the earth . 
In the night , they stole away the footstool or foot cloth of his throne , which they secretly replaced with the decoration of a satirical picture . 
The emperor was painted with a bridle in his mouth , and Athanasius leading the tractable beast to the feet of Christ . 
which he pronounced against historic falsehood . 
It is true , that his censure is more pointedly urged against calumny than against adulation . 
who includes the second retreat of this second Chrysostom . 
The name and situation of the emperor John Cantacuzene might inspire the most lively curiosity . 
But in this eloquent work we should vainly seek the sincerity of a hero or a penitent . 
Retired in a cloister from the vices and passions of the world , he presents not a confession , but an apology , of the life of an ambitious statesman . 
Instead of unfolding the true counsels and characters of men , he displays the smooth and specious surface of events , highly varnished with his own praises and those of his friends . 
Either death or disgust prevented him from resuming the pen . 
relates the civil war , and the eight last years of the elder Andronicus . 
The ingenious comparison with Moses and Caesar is fancied by his French translator , the president Cousin . 
This is the part of which Cantacuzene complains as a false and malicious representation of his conduct . 
The son of Michael was named Andronicus from his grandfather , to whose early favor he was introduced by that nominal resemblance . 
But the younger Andronicus was speedily corrupted by his infant greatness , while he beheld with puerile impatience the double obstacle that hung , and might long hang , over his rising ambition . 
His destined heir was Michael Catharus , the bastard of Constantine his second son . 
Such a force might have saved or commanded the empire but their counsels were discordant , their motions were slow and doubtful , and their progress was checked by intrigue and negotiation . 
The quarrel of the two Andronici was protracted , and suspended , and renewed , during a ruinous period of seven years . 
By the second treaty , he stipulated the payment of his troops , his immediate coronation , and an adequate share of the power and revenue of the state . 
The third civil war was terminated by the surprise of Constantinople , the final retreat of the old emperor , and the sole reign of his victorious grandson . 
The reasons of this delay may be found in the characters of the men and of the times . 
The grievances of forty years were mingled in his revolt and the rising generation was fatigued by the endless prospect of a reign , whose favorites and maxims were of other times . 
The conduct of Cantacuzene , by his own showing , was inexplicable . 
He was unwilling to dethrone the old emperor , and dissuaded the immediate march on Constantinople . 
The young Andronicus , he says , entered into his views , and wrote to warn the emperor of his danger when the march was determined . 
M. See Nicephorus Gregoras , l . 
I follow the chronology of Nicephorus Gregoras , who is remarkably exact . 
It is proved that Cantacuzene has mistaken the dates of his own actions , or rather that his text has been corrupted by ignorant transcribers . 
And the washerwomen , according to Nic . 
Note But it may be accused of unparalleled absurdity . 
He compares the extinction of the feeble old man to that of the sun his coffin is to be floated like Noah's ark by a deluge of tears . 
announced the departure of the old and imbecile Imperial Monk from his earthly prison . 
M. Nor was the reign of the younger , more glorious or fortunate than that of the elder , Andronicus . 
The first , Agnes at home , Irene in Greece , was daughter of the duke of Brunswick . 
After the death of this childish princess , Andronicus sought in marriage Jane , the sister of the count of Savoy and his suit was preferred to that of the French king . 
The count respected in his sister the superior majesty of a Roman empress her retinue was composed of knights and ladies she was regenerated and crowned in St . 
Sophia , under the more orthodox appellation of Anne and , at the nuptial feast , the Greeks and Italians vied with each other in the martial exercises of tilts and tournaments . 
The frequent partitions among brothers had almost ruined the princely houses of Germany , till that just , but pernicious , law was slowly superseded by the right of primogeniture . 
The royal author of the Memoirs of Brandenburgh will teach us , how justly , in a much later period , the north of Germany deserved the epithets of poor and barbarous . 
In the year , in the woods of Luneburgh , some wild people of the Vened race were allowed to bury alive their infirm and useless parents . 
Cantacuzene has given a most honorable testimony . 
The praise is just in itself , and pleasing to an English ear . 
Anne , or Jane , was one of the four daughters of Amedee the Great , by a second marriage , and half sister of his successor Edward count of Savoy . 
Anne of Savoy arrived at Constantinople in February , . 
The long and cordial friendship of his father for John Cantacuzene is alike honorable to the prince and the subject . 
It had been formed amidst the pleasures of their youth their families were almost equally noble and the recent lustre of the purple was amply compensated by the energy of a private education . 
The favor of Cantacuzene was above his fortune . 
In the moments of familiarity , in the hour of sickness , the emperor was desirous to level the distance between them and pressed his friend to accept the diadem and purple . 
the French translation of the president Cousin is blotted with three palpable and essential errors . 
He omits the yoke of working oxen . 
He interprets by the number of fifteen hundred . 
He confounds myriads with chiliads , and gives Cantacuzene no more than hogs . 
Put not your trust in translations ! Note There seems to be another reading . 
M. Had the regent found a suitable return of obedience and gratitude , perhaps he would have acted with pure and zealous fidelity in the service of his pupil . 
Bold and subtle , rapacious and profuse , the avarice and ambition of Apocaucus were by turns subservient to each other and his talents were applied to the ruin of his country . 
His arrogance was heightened by the command of a naval force and an impregnable castle , and under the mask of oaths and flattery he secretly conspired against his benefactor . 
The patriarch John of Apri was a proud and feeble old man , encompassed by a numerous and hungry kindred . 
By this powerful confederacy , the great domestic was assaulted at first with clandestine , at length with open , arms . 
His prerogatives were disputed his opinions slighted his friends persecuted and his safety was threatened both in the camp and city . 
While the empress and the patriarch still affected the appearances of harmony , he repeatedly solicited the permission of retiring to a private , and even a monastic , life . 
She died there through persecution and neglect . 
confesses the innocence and virtues of Cantacuzenus , the guilt and flagitious vices of Apocaucus nor does he dissemble the motive of his personal and religious enmity to the former . 
Note They were the religious enemies and persecutors of Nicephorus . 
Chapter LXIII Civil Wars And The Ruin Of The Greek Empire . 
A base majority bowed and retired and his trusty band was diminished to two thousand , and at last to five hundred , volunteers . 
Cantacuzene asserts , that in all the cities , the populace were on the side of the emperor , the aristocracy on his . 
The populace took the opportunity of rising and plundering the wealthy as Cantacuzenites , vol . 
Ages of common oppression and ruin had not extinguished these republican factions . 
who reserve the name of Padishah for the emperor . 
It is surprising that Cantacuzene has not inserted this just and lively image in his own writings . 
The Turks of Asia were less barbarous perhaps than the shepherds of Bulgaria and Servia but their religion rendered them implacable foes of Rome and Christianity . 
The inclining scale was decided in his favor by the death of Apocaucus , the just though singular retribution of his crimes . 
escaped to a neighboring church they were slaughtered at the foot of the altar and in his death the monster was not less bloody and venomous than in his life . 
She yielded to the prayers of her friends and enemies and the treaty was dictated by the conqueror , who professed a loyal and zealous attachment to the son of his benefactor . 
The marriage of his daughter with John Palaeologus was at length consummated the hereditary right of the pupil was acknowledged but the sole administration during ten years was vested in the guardian . 
Two emperors and three empresses were seated on the Byzantine throne and a general amnesty quieted the apprehensions , and confirmed the property , of the most guilty subjects . 
The festival of the coronation and nuptials was celebrated with the appearances of concord and magnificence , and both were equally fallacious . 
The two avengers were both Palaeologi , who might resent , with royal indignation , the shame of their chains . 
The tragedy of Apocaucus may deserve a peculiar reference to Cantacuzene and Nic . 
It is true that they do not speak exactly of the same time . 
Nicephorus says four , p . 
The traitor and treason are revealed by Nic . 
There were , however , some true pearls , but very thinly sprinkled . 
I hasten to conclude the personal history of John Cantacuzene . 
He triumphed and reigned but his reign and triumph were clouded by the discontent of his own and the adverse faction . 
by my sublime , and almost incredible virtue . 
Had these sentiments been genuine , his voluntary abdication would have restored the peace of the empire , and his conscience would have been relieved by an act of justice . 
But Constantinople was still attached to the blood of her ancient princes and this last injury accelerated the restoration of the rightful heir . 
A noble Genoese espoused the cause of Palaeologus , obtained a promise of his sister , and achieved the revolution with two galleys and two thousand five hundred auxiliaries . 
and his fourteen last books are still Mss. in the king of France's library . 
represents his own virtues , and Nic . 
the complaints of his friends , who suffered by its effects . 
I have lent them the words of our poor cavaliers after the Restoration . 
Yet in the cloister , the mind of Cantacuzene was still exercised by theological war . 
The opinion and practice of the monasteries of Mount Athos will be best represented in the words of an abbot , who flourished in the eleventh century . 
His attack compelled the more learned to renounce or dissemble the simple devotion of their brethren and Gregory Palamas introduced a scholastic distinction between the essence and operation of God . 
He composed them to satisfy a proselyte who was assaulted with letters from his friends of Ispahan . 
Cantacuzene had read the Koran but I understand from Maracci that he adopts the vulgar prejudices and fables against Mahomet and his religion . 
See the Voyage de Bernier , tom . 
The former unfolds the causes with the judgment of a philosopher , the latter transcribes and transcribes and translates with the prejudices of a Catholic priest . 
has investigated the character and story of Barlaam . 
The duplicity of his opinions had inspired some doubts of the identity of his person . 
whose last books , from the xixth to xxivth , are almost confined to a subject so interesting to the authors . 
or rather Montfaucon , from the Mss. of the Coislin library , have added some facts and documents . 
For the conclusion of this chapter , I have reserved the Genoese war , which shook the throne of Cantacuzene , and betrayed the debility of the Greek empire . 
The Genoese , who , after the recovery of Constantinople , were seated in the suburb of Pera or Galata , received that honorable fief from the bounty of the emperor . 
The navigation and trade of the Euxine was the patrimony of the Greek emperors , who commanded the narrow entrance , the gates , as it were , of that inland sea . 
These various branches of trade were monopolized by the diligence and power of the Genoese . 
Destitute of a navy , the Greeks were oppressed by these haughty merchants , who fed , or famished , Constantinople , according to their interest . 
understand and deplore the effects of this dangerous indulgence . 
was assured at Caffa , that these fishes were sometimes twenty four or twenty six feet long , weighed eight or nine hundred pounds , and yielded three or four quintals of caviare . 
The corn of the Bosphorus had supplied the Athenians in the time of Demosthenes . 
Viaggi di Ramusio , tom . 
But this land or water carriage could only be practicable when Tartary was united under a wise and powerful monarch . 
is judicious and well informed on the trade and colonies of the Black Sea . 
These usurpations were encouraged by the weakness of the elder Andronicus , and by the civil wars that afflicted his age and the minority of his grandson . 
A Byzantine vessel , which had presumed to fish at the mouth of the harbor , was sunk by these audacious strangers the fishermen were murdered . 
Yet the distress of both parties interposed a temporary agreement and the shame of the empire was disguised by a thin veil of dignity and power . 
in a clear and honest narrative . 
The priest was less responsible than the prince for the defeat of the fleet . 
But the emperor was soon solicited to violate the treaty , and to join his arms with the Venetians , the perpetual enemies of Genoa and her colonies . 
Cantacuzene instantly signed his treaty with the Venetians but the weight of the Roman empire was scarcely felt in the balance of these opulent and powerful republics . 
They engaged in tempestuous weather and the tumultuary conflict was continued from the dawn to the extinction of light . 
In a public epistle , addressed to the doge and senate , Petrarch employs his eloquence to reconcile the maritime powers , the two luminaries of Italy . 
might soon have sunk into a province of Genoa , if the ambition of the republic had not been checked by the ruin of her freedom and naval power . 
who wishes to disguise what he dares not deny . 
I regret this part of Nic . 
Gregoras , which is still in Ms. at Paris . 
Note This part of Nicephorus Gregoras has not been printed in the new edition of the Byzantine Historians . 
The editor expresses a hope that it may be undertaken by Hase . 
both which I have diligently consulted in his great Collection of the Historians of Italy . 
See the Chronicle of Matteo Villani of Florence , l . 
, , in Muratori's Collection , tom . 
Cantacuzene praises their bravery , but imputes their losses to their ignorance of the seas they suffered more by the breakers than by the enemy , vol . 
translates this letter , which he copied from a MS . 
in the king of France's library . 
Chapter LXIV Moguls , Ottoman Turkds . 
Part I. Conquests Of Zingis Khan And The Moguls From China To Poland . 
Escape Of Constantinople And The Greeks . 
Origin Of The Ottoman Turks In Bithynia . 
Reigns And Victories Of Othman , Orchan , Amurath The First , And Bajazet The First . 
Foundation And Progress Of The Turkish Monarchy In Asia And Europe . 
Danger Of Constantinople And The Greek Empire . 
Mongol seems to approach the nearest to the proper name of this race . 
The Chinese call them Mong kou the Mondchoux , their neighbors , Monggo or Monggou . 
They called themselves also Beda . 
This fact seems to have been proved by M. Schmidt against the French Orientalists . 
Note on Le Beau , tom . 
The reader is invited to review chapters xxii . 
From the spacious highlands between China , Siberia , and the Caspian Sea , the tide of emigration and war has repeatedly been poured . 
had trampled on the necks of his equals . 
His birth was noble but it was the pride of victory , that the prince or people deduced his seventh ancestor from the immaculate conception of a virgin . 
After his first victory , he placed seventy caldrons on the fire , and seventy of the most guilty rebels were cast headlong into the boiling water . 
On the traditions of the early life of Zingis , see D'Ohson , Hist des Mongols Histoire des Mongols , Paris , . 
Schmidt , Geschichte des Ost Mongolen , p . 
From the same idea of magnitude , the appellation of Zingis is bestowed on the ocean . 
The name of Moguls has prevailed among the Orientals , and still adheres to the titular sovereign , the Great Mogul of Hindastan . 
justly observes , that Timour was a Turk , not a Mogul , and , p . 
, that probably there was not Mogul in the army of Baber , who established the Indian throne of the Great Mogul . 
There is no trace of it in the Chinese writers de l'Asie , p . 
M. The code of laws which Zingis dictated to his subjects was adapted to the preservation of a domestic peace , and the exercise of foreign hostility . 
The victorious nation was held sacred from all servile labors , which were abandoned to slaves and strangers and every labor was servile except the profession of arms . 
But it is the religion of Zingis that best deserves our wonder and applause . 
Travels in Caucasus , ch . 
Neither Dshingis nor his son and successor Oegodah had , on account of their continual wars , much leisure for the propagation of the religion of the Lama . 
By religion they understand a distinct , independent , sacred moral code , which has but one origin , one source , and one object . 
This notion they universally propagate , and even believe that the brutes , and all created beings , have a religion adapted to their sphere of action . 
The different forms of the various religions they ascribe to the difference of individuals , nations , and legislators . 
Never do you hear of their inveighing against any creed , even against the obviously absurd Schaman paganism , or of their persecuting others on that account . 
See the notice on Tha tha toung o , the Ouogour minister of Tchingis , in Abel Remusat's d series of Recherch . 
A new alphabet , approaching to that of Thibet , was introduced under Khubilai . 
M. In the year , by the command of Cazan , khan of Persia , the fourth in descent from Zingis . 
was translated by the Swedish prisoners in Siberia from the Mogul MS . 
He is of most value and credit for the names , pedigrees , and manners of his nation . 
This translation is stamped with the Chinese character of domestic accuracy and foreign ignorance . 
See the Histoire du Grand Genghizcan , premier Empereur des Moguls et Tartares , par M. Petit de la Croix , a Paris , , in mo . 
a work of ten years' labor , chiefly drawn from the Persian writers , among whom Nisavi , the secretary of Sultan Gelaleddin , has the merit and prejudices of a contemporary . 
A slight air of romance is the fault of the originals , or the compiler . 
See likewise the articles of Genghizcan , Mohammed , Gelaleddin , c . 
, in the Bibliotheque Orientale of D'Herbelot . 
Note The preface to the Hist . 
gives a catalogue of the Arabic and Persian authorities . 
dictated in the French language , his book de Tartaris , his old fellow soldiers . 
Note A precis at the end of the new edition of Le Beau , Hist . 
, by M. Brosset , gives large extracts from the accounts of the Armenian historians relating to the Mogul conquests . 
and his xth Dynasty is that of the Moguls of Persia . 
has extracted some facts from his Syriac writings , and the lives of the Jacobite maphrians , or primates of the East . 
Among the Arabians , in language and religion , we may distinguish Abulfeda , sultan of Hamah in Syria , who fought in person , under the Mamaluke standard , against the Moguls . 
has felt the necessity of connecting the Scythian and Byzantine histories . 
He describes with truth and elegance the settlement and manners of the Moguls of Persia , but he is ignorant of their origin , and corrupts the names of Zingis and his sons . 
has described the conquest of Russia by the Tartars , from the patriarch Nicon , and the old chronicles . 
inserted in the Novus Orbis of Grynaeus . 
Mediae et Infimae Aetatis , tom . 
the best picture that I have ever seen of all the circumstances of a Barbaric invasion . 
may be found in the second tome of Ramusio . 
In his great History of the Huns , M. de Guignes has most amply treated of Zingis Khan and his successors . 
, and in the collateral articles of the Seljukians of Roum , tom . 
, the Carizmians , l . 
, and the Mamalukes , tom . 
consult likewise the tables of the st volume . 
He is ever learned and accurate yet I am only indebted to him for a general view , and some passages of Abulfeda , which are still latent in the Arabic text . 
Note To this catalogue of the historians of the Moguls may be added D'Ohson , Histoire des Mongols Histoire des Mongols , Paris , . 
Schmidt , Geschichte der Ost Mongolen , St . 
M. Chapter LXIV Moguls , Ottoman Turkds . 
His ancestors had been the tributaries of the Chinese emperors and Temugin himself had been disgraced by a title of honor and servitude . 
A haughty answer disguised their secret apprehensions and their fears were soon justified by the march of innumerable squadrons , who pierced on all sides the feeble rampart of the great wall . 
In his second expedition , he compelled the Chinese emperor to retire beyond the yellow river to a more southern residence . 
China was desolated by Tartar war and domestic faction and the five northern provinces were added to the empire of Zingis . 
Pe king and Nan king are vague titles , the courts of the north and of the south . 
Note And likewise in Chinese history see Abel Remusat , Mel . 
A rash and inhuman deed provoked and justified the Tartar arms in the invasion of the southern Asia . 
Our European battles , says a philosophic writer , are petty skirmishes , if compared to the numbers that have fought and fallen in the fields of Asia . 
Seven hundred thousand Moguls and Tartars are said to have marched under the standard of Zingis and his four sons . 
It was in this camp that the Mogul conqueror yielded with reluctance to the murmurs of his weary and wealthy troops , who sighed for the enjoyment of their native land . 
After he had repassed the Oxus and Jaxartes , he was joined by two generals , whom he had detached with thirty thousand horse , to subdue the western provinces of Persia . 
! See the particular account of this transaction , from the Kholauesut Akbaur , in Price , vol . 
M. M. de Voltaire , Essai sur l'Histoire Generale , tom . 
His account of Zingis and the Moguls contains , as usual , much general sense and truth , with some particular errors . 
Every where they massacred all classes , except the artisans , whom they made slaves . 
Toushi was his great huntsman , Zagatai his judge , Octai his minister , and Tuli his general and their names and actions are often conspicuous in the history of his conquests . 
He was succeeded by his son Gayuk , after whose death the empire devolved to his cousins Mangou and Cublai , the sons of Tuli , and the grandsons of Zingis . 
In the sixty eight years of his four first successors , the Mogul subdued almost all Asia , and a large portion of Europe . 
In the West and IV . 
Zagatai gave his name to his dominions of Maurenahar , or Transoxiana and the Moguls of Hindostan , who emigrated from that country , are styled Zagatais by the Persians . 
This certain etymology , and the similar example of Uzbek , Nogai , c . 
, may warn us not absolutely to reject the derivations of a national , from a personal , name . 
Note See a curious anecdote of Tschagatai . 
The Northern empire , which had been dismembered by Zingis , was finally subdued seven years after his death . 
was still maintained in the southern provinces from Hamcheu to Canton and the obstinate remnant of independence and hostility was transported from the land to the sea . 
But when the fleet of the Song was surrounded and oppressed by a superior armament , their last champion leaped into the waves with his infant emperor in his arms . 
It is more glorious , he cried , to die a prince , than to live a slave . 
A hundred thousand Chinese imitated his example and the whole empire , from Tonkin to the great wall , submitted to the dominion of Cublai . 
His boundless ambition aspired to the conquest of Japan his fleet was twice shipwrecked and the lives of a hundred thousand Moguls and Chinese were sacrificed in the fruitless expedition . 
The search of Cathay , after China had been found , excited and misled our navigators of the sixteenth century , in their attempts to discover the north east passage . 
but I am ignorant at what time these annals were composed and published . 
must have felt and related the effects of this destructive powder , and their silence is a weighty , and almost decisive objection . 
Yet the Pere Gaubil affirms , that the use of gunpowder has been known to the Chinese above years . 
Note Sou houng kian lon . 
Abel Remusat , Melanges Asiat . 
The extinction of the Abbassides cannot be indifferent to the spectators of their greatness and decline . 
The invasion of the Moguls he encountered with feeble arms and haughty embassies . 
On the divine decree , said the caliph Mostasem , is founded the throne of the sons of Abbas and their foes shall surely be destroyed in this world and in the next . 
But when Holagou touched the phantom , it instantly vanished into smoke . 
! But it overflowed with resistless violence the kingdoms of Armenia ! ! and Anatolia , of which the former was possessed by the Christians , and the latter by the Turks . 
See the curious account of the expedition of Holagou , translated from the Chinese , by M. Abel Remusat , Melanges Asiat . 
Note Von Hammer's History of the Assassins has now thrown Falconet's Dissertation into the shade . 
M. The Ismaelians of Syria , , Assassins , had acquired or founded ten castles in the hills above Tortosa . 
About the year , they were extirpated by the Mamalukes . 
Compare Von Hammer , Geschichte der Assassinen , p . 
Wilken , Geschichte der Kreuzzuge , vol . 
Price , Chronological Retrospect , vol . 
! Compare Wilken , vol . 
M. ! ! On the friendly relations of the Armenians with the Mongols see Wilken , Geschichte der Kreuzzuge , vol . 
They eagerly desired an alliance against the Mahometan powers . 
M. Trebizond escaped , apparently by the dexterous politics of the sovereign , but it acknowledged the Mogul supremacy . 
No sooner had Octai subverted the northern empire of China , than he resolved to visit with his arms the most remote countries of the West . 
By the first victories of Batou , the remains of national freedom were eradicated in the immense plains of Turkestan and Kipzak . 
The civil discord of the great dukes , or princes , of Russia , betrayed their country to the Tartars . 
The Tartars ravaged with equal fury the countries which they hoped to possess , and those which they were hastening to leave . 
From the permanent conquest of Russia they made a deadly , though transient , inroad into the heart of Poland , and as far as the borders of Germany . 
In the winter the Tartars passed the Danube on the ice , and advanced to Gran or Strigonium , a German colony , and the metropolis of the kingdom . 
Of all the cities and fortresses of Hungary , three alone survived the Tartar invasion , and the unfortunate Bata hid his head among the islands of the Adriatic . 
! See the curious extracts from the Mahometan writers , Hist . 
Olmutz was gallantly and successfully defended by Stenberg , Hist . 
It is whimsical enough , that the orders of a Mogul khan , who reigned on the borders of China , should have lowered the price of herrings in the English market . 
He was recalled by the death of Octai M. IV . 
The spirit of enterprise which pursued the course of the Oby and Yenisei must have led to the discovery of the icy sea . 
See Carpin's relation in Hackluyt , vol . 
Have the Russians found no Tartar chronicles at Tobolskoi ? Note See the account of the Mongol library in Bergman , Nomadische Strensreyen , vol . 
, , and Remusat , Hist . 
des Langues Tartares , p . 
, and preface to Schmidt , Geschichte der Ost Mongolen . 
Like the first caliphs , the first successors of Zingis seldom appeared in person at the head of their victorious armies . 
The sons and grandsons of Zingis had been accustomed to the pastoral life but the village of Caracorum was gradually ennobled by their election and residence . 
Yet a French missionary declares , that the town of St . 
Denys , near Paris , was more considerable than the Tartar capital and that the whole palace of Mangou was scarcely equal to a tenth part of that Benedictine abbey . 
I have already celebrated the wisdom and virtue of a Mandarin who prevented the desolation of five populous and cultivated provinces . 
He struggled with the barbarism of the first conquerors but his salutary lessons produced a rich harvest in the second generation . 
He restored the forms of her venerable constitution and the victors submitted to the laws , the fashions , and even the prejudices , of the vanquished people . 
This peaceful triumph , which has been more than once repeated , may be ascribed , in a great measure , to the numbers and servitude of the Chinese . 
His successors polluted the palace with a crowd of eunuchs , physicians , and astrologers , while thirteen millions of their subjects were consumed in the provinces by famine . 
seem to mark the position of Holin , or Caracorum , about six hundred miles to the north west of Pekin . 
Rubruquis found at Caracorum his countryman Guillaume Boucher , orfevre de Paris , who had executed for the khan a silver tree supported by four lions , and ejecting four different liquors . 
mentions the painters of Kitay or China . 
in the second volume of the second series of Recherches Asiatiques , par A Remusat , p . 
seems to represent them as the priests of the same god , of the Indian Fo , whose worship prevails among the sects of Hindostan Siam , Thibet , China , and Japan . 
But this mysterious subject is still lost in a cloud , which the researchers of our Asiatic Society may gradually dispel . 
Chapter LXIV Moguls , Ottoman Turkds . 
After the recovery of Constantinople , Michael Palaeologus , at a distance from his court and army , was surprised and surrounded in a Thracian castle , by twenty thousand Tartars . 
But the object of their march was a private interest they came to the deliverance of Azzadin , the Turkish sultan and were content with his person and the treasure of the emperor . 
Such was the influence in Europe of the invasion of the Moguls . 
The first terror of their arms secured , rather than disturbed , the peace of the Roman Asia . 
The sultan of Iconium solicited a personal interview with John Vataces and his artful policy encouraged the Turks to defend their barrier against the common enemy . 
That barrier indeed was soon overthrown and the servitude and ruin of the Seljukians exposed the nakedness of the Greeks . 
might propagate and color the report of the union and victory of the kings of the Franks on the confines of Bulgaria . 
after forty years , beyond the Tigris , might be easily deceived . 
, and the false alarm at Nice , l . 
Hayton likewise , the Armenian prince , celebrates their friendship for himself and his nation . 
he hopes much from the arrival of , Tochars , or Tartars , who were ordered by the successor of Cazan to restrain the Turks of Bithynia , A. D. . 
The origin of the Ottoman dynasty is illustrated by the critical learning of Mm . 
two inhabitants of Paris , from whom the Orientals may learn the history and geography of their own country . 
Note They may be still more enlightened by the Geschichte des Osman Reiches , by M. von Hammer Purgstall of Vienna . 
M. After the retreat of Zingis , the sultan Gelaleddin of Carizme had returned from India to the possession and defence of his Persian kingdoms . 
Yet he was oppressed by the jealousy of the Moslem princes , and the innumerable armies of the Moguls and after his last defeat , Gelaleddin perished ignobly in the mountains of Curdistan . 
His death dissolved a veteran and adventurous army , which included under the name of Carizmians or Corasmins many Turkman hordes , that had attached themselves to the sultan's fortune . 
Othman possessed , and perhaps surpassed , the ordinary virtues of a soldier and the circumstances of time and place were propitious to his independence and success . 
The Seljukian dynasty was no more and the distance and decline of the Mogul khans soon enfranchised him from the control of a superior . 
Till the reign of Palaeologus , these passes had been vigilantly guarded by the militia of the country , who were repaid by their own safety and an exemption from taxes . 
The glory of Othman is chiefly founded on that of his descendants but the Turks have transcribed or composed a royal testament of his last counsels of justice and moderation . 
, , and concerning the guard of the mountains , l . 
, and the first book of Laonicus Chalcondyles , the Athenian . 
I am ignorant whether the Turks have any writers older than Mahomet II . 
with copious pandects , or commentaries . 
The author is guilty of strange blunders in Oriental history but he was conversant with the language , the annals , and institutions of the Turks . 
Cantemir partly draws his materials from the Synopsis of Saadi Effendi of Larissa , dedicated in the year to Sultan Mustapha , and a valuable abridgment of the original historians . 
as the first of historians , unhappy only in the choice of his subject . 
Note We could have wished that M. von Hammer had given a more clear and distinct reply to this question of Gibbon . 
In a note , vol . 
and learned lawyers , but poets and authors on medicine . 
But the inquiry of Gibbon obviously refers to historians . 
The oldest of their historical works , of which V. Hammer makes use , is the Tarichi Aaschik Paschasade , i . 
I. Ahmed , the author of the work , lived during the reign of Bajazet II . 
and who related , from the lips of his father , the circumstances of the earliest Ottoman history . 
our author found at length in the Vatican . 
All the other Turkish histories on his list , as indeed this , were written during the reign of Mahomet II . 
It does not appear whether any of the rest cite earlier authorities of equal value with that claimed by the Tarichi Aaschik Paschasade . 
From the conquest of Prusa , we may date the true aera of the Ottoman empire . 
The office of vizier was instituted for Aladin , the brother of Orchan and a different habit distinguished the citizens from the peasants , the Moslems from the infidels . 
Two Turkish chieftains , Sarukhan and Aidin , left their names to their conquests , and their conquests to their posterity . 
The captivity or ruin of the seven churches of Asia was consummated and the barbarous lords of Ionia and Lydia still trample on the monuments of classic and Christian antiquity . 
Philadelphia alone has been saved by prophecy , or courage . 
The servitude of Rhodes was delayed about two centuries by the establishment of the knights of St . 
It appears that Nice was taken by Orchan in , and Nicomedia in , which are somewhat different from the Turkish dates . 
! ! For the conquests of Orchan over the ten pachaliks , or kingdoms of the Seljukians , in Asia Minor . 
see V. Hammer , vol . 
See likewise the first book of Laonicus Chalcondyles . 
See the Travels of Wheeler and Spon , of Pocock and Chandler , and more particularly Smith's Survey of the Seven Churches of Asia , p . 
The more pious antiquaries labor to reconcile the promises and threats of the author of the Revelations with the present state of the seven cities . 
Perhaps it would be more prudent to confine his predictions to the characters and events of his own times . 
Consult the ivth book of the Histoire de 'Ordre de Malthe , par l'Abbe de Vertot . 
That pleasing writer betrays his ignorance , in supposing that Othman , a freebooter of the Bithynian hills , could besiege Rhodes by sea and land . 
The Greeks , by their intestine divisions , were the authors of their final ruin . 
In the prosecution of the civil war , the prince of Ionia twice returned to Europe joined his arms with those of the emperor besieged Thessalonica , and threatened Constantinople . 
The maritime power of the Turks had united the pope , the king of Cyprus , the republic of Venice , and the order of St . 
A body of Turkish cavalry attended the ambassadors , who disembarked from thirty vessels , before his camp of Selybria . 
A stately pavilion was erected , in which the empress Irene passed the night with her daughters . 
In the morning , Theodora ascended a throne , which was surrounded with curtains of silk and gold the troops were under arms but the emperor alone was on horseback . 
But the friendship of Orchan was subservient to his religion and interest and in the Genoese war he joined without a blush the enemies of Cantacuzene . 
After the conquest of Smyrna by the Latins , the defence of this fortress was imposed by Pope Gregory XI . 
He afterwards celebrates his kingdom and armies . 
See his reign in Cantemir , p . 
Soliman , at the head of ten thousand horse , was transported in the vessels , and entertained as the friend , of the Greek emperor . 
His prudent counsels were despised by the headstrong vanity of youth , and soon justified by the victories of the Ottomans . 
They forget to consult the most authentic record , the ivth book of Cantacuzene . 
I likewise regret the last books , which are still manuscript , of Nicephorus Gregoras . 
Of the romantic account of Soliman's first expedition , he says , As yet the prose of history had not asserted its right over the poetry of tradition . 
This defence would scarcely be accepted as satisfactory by the historian of the Decline and Fall . 
Note In the th year of his age , the th of his reign . 
M. Chapter LXIV Moguls , Ottoman Turkds . 
Their countries did not abound either in gold or silver nor were their rustic hamlets and townships enriched by commerce or decorated by the arts of luxury . 
The advice was followed the edict was proclaimed many thousands of the European captives were educated in religion and arms and the new militia was consecrated and named by a celebrated dervis . 
The Janizaries fought with the zeal of proselytes against their idolatrous countrymen and in the battle of Cossova , the league and independence of the Sclavonian tribes was finally crushed . 
After the conclusion of Cantacuzene and Gregoras , there follows a dark interval of a hundred years . 
George Phranza , Michael Ducas , and Laonicus Chalcondyles , all three wrote after the taking of Constantinople . 
, with his own large and curious annotations . 
White and black face are common and proverbial expressions of praise and reproach in the Turkish language . 
Hic niger est , hunc tu Romane caveto , was likewise a Latin sentence . 
, Gibbon and the European writers assign too late a date to this enrolment of the Janizaries . 
It took place not in the reign of Amurath , but in that of his predecessor Orchan . 
The Italian translator of Ducas , published by Bekker in the new edition of the Byzantines , has still further heightened the romance . 
the popular Servian account , which resembles that of Ducas , and may have been the source of that of his Italian translator . 
while he lay among the heap of the dead , pretended to have some secret to impart to Amurath , and stabbed him while he leaned over to listen . 
the first book of Chalcondyles , and the Annales Turcici of Leunclavius . 
as an excuse for the unworthy precaution of pinioning , as if were , between two attendants , an ambassador's arms , when he is introduced to the royal presence . 
Nor were the conquests of Bajazet less rapid or important in Europe . 
No sooner had he imposed a regular form of servitude on the Servians and Bulgarians , than he passed the Danube to seek new enemies and new subjects in the heart of Moldavia . 
His progress was checked , not by the miraculous interposition of the apostle , not by a crusade of the Christian powers , but by a long and painful fit of the gout . 
the iid book of Chalcondyles , and the Annales Turcici . 
had composed the ancient and modern state of his principality of Moldavia , which has been long promised , and is still unpublished . 
of the election of Othman to the dignity of sultan . 
of Bonfinius , an Italian , who , in the xvth century , was invited into Hungary to compose an eloquent history of that kingdom . 
Yet , if it be extant and accessible , I should give the preference to some homely chronicle of the time and country . 
Such is the general idea of the Hungarian war but the disastrous adventure of the French has procured us some memorials which illustrate the victory and character of Bajazet . 
These splendid names were the source of presumption and the bane of discipline . 
In the speed and secrecy of his march , in the order and evolutions of the battle , his enemies felt and admired the military talents of Bajazet . 
They accuse his cruelty in the use of victory . 
! A knight , whose life had been spared , was permitted to return to Paris , that he might relate the deplorable tale , and solicit the ransom of the noble captives . 
He was assured of their value and importance by the return of the messenger , and the gifts and intercessions of the kings of France and of Cyprus . 
It had been stipulated in the treaty , that the French captives should swear never to bear arms against the person of their conqueror but the ungenerous restraint was abolished by Bajazet himself . 
I despise , said he to the heir of Burgundy , thy oaths and thy arms . 
Thou art young , and mayest be ambitious of effacing the disgrace or misfortune of thy first chivalry . 
Assemble thy powers , proclaim thy design , and be assured that Bajazet will rejoice to meet thee a second time in a field of battle . 
Before their departure , they were indulged in the freedom and hospitality of the court of Boursa . 
The French princes admired the magnificence of the Ottoman , whose hunting and hawking equipage was composed of seven thousand huntsmen and seven thousand falconers . 
The strangers were astonished by this act of justice but it was the justice of a sultan who disdains to balance the weight of evidence , or to measure the degrees of guilt . 
who read little , inquired much , and believed all . 
add some facts , but they are dry and deficient , if compared with the pleasant garrulity of Froissard . 
An accurate Memoir on the Life of Enguerrand VII . 
, makes the whole French army amount to , men , of whom were knights . 
and which V. Hammer receives as authentic , gives the whole number at . 
and V. Hammer , note , p . 
M. According to Shiltberger there were only twelve French lords granted to the prayer of the duke of Burgundy , and Herr Stephan Synther , and Johann von Bodem . 
M. For this odious fact , the Abbe de Vertot quotes the Hist . 
allows Bajazet a round number of , officers and servants of the chase . 
A part of his spoils was afterwards displayed in a hunting match of Timour , l . 
leopards with collars set with jewels . 
After his enfranchisement from an oppressive guardian , John Palaeologus remained thirty six years , the helpless , and , as it should seem , the careless spectator of the public ruin . 
Palaeologus trembled and obeyed and a cruel precaution involved in the same sentence the childhood and innocence of John , the son of the criminal . 
For the reigns of John Palaeologus and his son Manuel , from to , see Ducas , c . 
, and the ist and iid books of Chalcondyles , whose proper subject is drowned in a sea of episode . 
According to Von Hammer it was the power of Bajazet , vol . 
The earliest intelligence of that event was communicated to Manuel , who escaped with speed and secrecy from the palace of Boursa to the Byzantine throne . 
Resign that city stipulate thy reward or tremble , for thyself and thy unhappy people , at the consequences of a rash refusal . 
But his ambassadors were instructed to soften their tone , and to propose a treaty , which was subscribed with submission and gratitude . 
Of the Greeks , Ducas alone acknowledges the Turkish cadhi at Constantinople . 
Yet even Ducas dissembles the mosque . 
Memoires du bon Messire Jean le Maingre , dit Boucicault , Marechal de France , partie c . 
Chapter LXV Elevation Of Timour Or Tamerlane , And His Death Part I. Elevation Of Timour Or Tamerlane To The Throne Of Samarcand . 
His Conquests In Persia , Georgia , Tartary Russia , India , Syria , And Anatolia . 
Defeat And Captivity Of Bajazet . 
Civil War Of The Sons Of Bajazet . 
Restoration Of The Turkish Monarchy By Mahomet The First . 
Siege Of Constantinople By Amurath The Second . 
The conquest and monarchy of the world was the first object of the ambition of Timour . 
To live in the memory and esteem of future ages was the second wish of his magnanimous spirit . 
and has always been my faithful guide . 
His geography and chronology are wonderfully accurate and he may be trusted for public facts , though he servilely praises the virtue and fortune of the hero . 
Timour's attention to procure intelligence from his own and foreign countries may be seen in the Institutions , p . 
Note The manuscript of Major Davy has been translated by Major Stewart , and published by the Oriental Translation Committee of London . 
It contains the life of Timour , from his birth to his forty first year but the last thirty years of western war and conquest are wanting . 
It is to be hoped that the European public will be soon enabled to judge of the value and authenticity of the Commentaries of the Caesar of the East . 
Major Stewart's work commences with the Book of Dreams and Omens a wild , but characteristic , chronicle of Visions and Sortes Koranicae . 
by the joint labors of Major Davy and Mr. White , the Arabic professor . 
by M. Langles , a learned Orientalist , who has added the life of Timour , and many curious notes . 
Shaw Allum , the present Mogul , reads , values , but cannot imitate , the institutions of his great ancestor . 
The English translator relies on their internal evidence but if any suspicions should arise of fraud and fiction , they will not be dispelled by Major Davy's letter . 
Vitae et Rerum gestarum Timuri . 
from Khondemir Ebn Schounah , and the Lebtarikh . 
Demir or Timour signifies in the Turkish language , Iron and it is the appellation of a lord or prince . 
By the change of a letter or accent , it is changed into Lenc , or Lame and a European corruption confounds the two words in the name of Tamerlane . 
The Shaikh then stopped and said , We have named your son Timur , p . 
M. He was lamed by a wound at the siege of the capital of Sistan . 
See Von Hammer , vol . 
His birth was cast on one of those periods of anarchy , which announce the fall of the Asiatic dynasties , and open a new field to adventurous ambition . 
But in this bloody action his own followers were reduced to ten , a number which was soon diminished by the desertion of three Carizmians . 
He presented himself as a guide to three chiefs , who were at the head of seventy horse . 
When their eyes fell upon me , says Timour , they were overwhelmed with joy and they alighted from their horses and they came and kneeled and they kissed my stirrup . 
I also came down from my horse , and took each of them in my arms . 
And they wept , and I wept also and the hour of prayer was arrived , and we prayed . 
And we mounted our horses , and came to my dwelling and I collected my people , and made a feast . 
The birth and power of emir Houssein compelled him to accept a vicious and unworthy colleague , whose sister was the best beloved of his wives . 
Tartary , and , III . 
India , and from thence proceed to the more interesting narrative of his Ottoman war . 
as Kurkan , great prince , generalissimo , and prime minister of Jagtai . 
is clear , unquestionable , and decisive . 
in the iiid volume of Hudson's Minor Greek Geographers . 
See his nativity in Dr . 
as it was cast by the astrologers of his grandson Ulugh Beg . 
He was born , A. D. , April , degrees minutes . 
Stewart observes , that the Persian translator has sometimes made use of the name Uzbek by anticipation . 
are not to be confounded with the ancient Getae they were unconverted Turks . 
would identify the Jits with the ancient race . 
M. ! ! He was twenty seven before he served his first wars under the emir Houssein , who ruled over Khorasan and Mawerainnehr . 
Neither of these statements agrees with the Memoirs . 
At twelve he was a boy . 
I fancied that I perceived in myself all the signs of greatness and wisdom , and whoever came to visit me , I received with great hauteur and dignity . 
At twenty , thoughts of rebellion and greatness rose in his mind at twenty one , he seems to have performed his first feat of arms . 
He was a practised warrior when he served , in his twenty seventh year , under Emir Houssein . 
! ! ! Compare Memoirs , page . 
The imprisonment is there stated at fifty three days . 
At this time I made a vow to God that I would never keep any person , whether guilty or innocent , for any length of time , in prison or in chains . 
M. Timour , on one occasion , sent him this message He who wishes to embrace the bride of royalty must kiss her across the edge of the sharp sword , p . 
The scene of the trial of Houssein , the resistance of Timour gradually becoming more feeble , the vengeance of the chiefs becoming proportionably more determined , is strikingly portrayed . 
enlarges with pleasure on the thirteen designs and enterprises which most truly constitute his personal merit . 
Consult the excellent Indexes to the Institutions . 
Note Compare the seventh book of Von Hammer , Geschichte des Osman ischen Reiches . 
M. I. For every war , a motive of safety or revenge , of honor or zeal , of right or convenience , may be readily found in the jurisprudence of conquerors . 
No sooner had Timour reunited to the patrimony of Zagatai the dependent countries of Carizme and Candahar , than he turned his eyes towards the kingdoms of Iran or Persia . 
From the Oxus to the Tigris , that extensive country was left without a lawful sovereign since the death of Abousaid , the last of the descendants of the great Holacou . 
Peace and justice had been banished from the land above forty years and the Mogul invader might seem to listen to the cries of an oppressed people . 
Ibrahim , prince of Shirwan , or Albania , kissed the footstool of the Imperial throne . 
I myself am the ninth , replied Ibrahim , who was prepared for the remark and his flattery was rewarded by the smile of Timour . 
Shah Mansour , prince of Fars , or the proper Persia , was one of the least powerful , but most dangerous , of his enemies . 
From Shiraz , his troops advanced to the Persian Gulf and the richness and weakness of Ormuz were displayed in an annual tribute of six hundred thousand dinars of gold . 
Bagdad was no longer the city of peace , the seat of the caliphs but the noblest conquest of Holacou could not be overlooked by his ambitious successor . 
The reverence of the Tartars for the mysterious number of nine is declared by Abulghazi Khan , who , for that reason , divides his Genealogical History into nine parts . 
the coward Timour ran away to his tent , and hid himself from the pursuit of Shah Mansour under the women's garments . 
Perhaps Sherefeddin has magnified his courage . 
The history of Ormuz is not unlike that of Tyre . 
The old city , on the continent , was destroyed by the Tartars , and renewed in a neighboring island , without fresh water or vegetation . 
, of Andrea Corsali , fol . 
, , and of Odoardo Barbessa , fol . 
A just retaliation might be urged for the invasion of Turkestan , or the Eastern Tartary . 
The dignity of Timour could not endure the impunity of the Getes he passed the Sihoon , subdued the kingdom of Kashgar , and marched seven times into the heart of their country . 
The conquest of Kipzak , or the Western Tartary , was founded on the double motive of aiding the distressed , and chastising the ungrateful . 
In a march of five months , they rarely beheld the footsteps of man and their daily subsistence was often trusted to the fortune of the chase . 
gave the tribe of Toushi to the wind of desolation . 
They offered their gifts , admired his magnificence , and trusted his royal word . 
But the peaceful visit of an emir , who explored the state of the magazines and harbor , was speedily followed by the destructive presence of the Tartars . 
The city was reduced to ashes the Moslems were pillaged and dismissed but all the Christians , who had not fled to their ships , were condemned either to death or slavery . 
Institutions of Timour , p . 
who was ignorant of the designs of Timour , and the true springs of action . 
The furs of Russia are more credible than the ingots . 
But the linen of Antioch has never been famous and Antioch was in ruins . 
I suspect that it was some manufacture of Europe , which the Hanse merchants had imported by the way of Novogorod . 
has corrected the error of Sherefeddin , and marked the true limit of Timour's conquests . 
with the aid of the Aurora Borealis , and a long summer twilight . 
would rigorously confine us within the polar circle . 
Between the Jihoon and the Indus they crossed one of the ridges of mountains , which are styled by the Arabian geographers The Stony Girdles of the Earth . 
Timour crossed the Indus at the ordinary passage of Attok and successively traversed , in the footsteps of Alexander , the Punjab , or five rivers , that fall into the master stream . 
He resolved to purify his soldiers in the blood of the idolaters , or Gentoos , who still surpass , in the proportion of ten to one , the numbers of the Moslems . 
which throws a general light on the affairs of Hindostan . 
is mistaken in the correspondence of the ninety two squadrons of his army with the ninety two names of God the names of God are ninety nine . 
and Allah is the hundredth , p . 
But Gibbon speaks of the names or epithets of Mahomet , not of God . 
In this Critical Memoir he illustrates with judgment and learning the marches of Alexander and Timour . 
M. ! They took , on their march , , slaves , Guebers they were all murdered . 
M See a curious passage on the destruction of the Hindoo idols , Memoirs , p . 
M. ! ! Consult the very striking description of the Cow's Mouth by Captain Hodgson , Asiat . 
The B'hagiratha or Ganges issues from under a very low arch at the foot of the grand snow bed . 
My guide , an illiterate mountaineer compared the pendent icicles to Mahodeva's hair . 
Hindoos of research may formerly have been here and f so . 
Between two jealous and haughty neighbors , the motives of quarrel will seldom be wanting . 
The Mogul and Ottoman conquests now touched each other in the neighborhood of Erzerum , and the Euphrates nor had the doubtful limit been ascertained by time and treaty . 
The resemblance of character was still more dangerous than the opposition of interest and in their victorious career , Timour was impatient of an equal , and Bajazet was ignorant of a superior . 
The first epistle of the Mogul emperor must have provoked , instead of reconciling , the Turkish sultan , whose family and nation he affected to despise . 
Be wise in time reflect repent and avert the thunder of our vengeance , which is yet suspended over thy head . 
Thou art no more than a pismire why wilt thou seek to provoke the elephants ? Alas ! they will trample thee under their feet . 
In his replies , Bajazet poured forth the indignation of a soul which was deeply stung by such unusual contempt . 
The cities of Arzingan and Erzeroum are mine and unless the tribute be duly paid , I will demand the arrears under the walls of Tauris and Sultania . 
The ungovernable rage of the sultan at length betrayed him to an insult of a more domestic kind . 
See the Institutions , p . 
to the entrance of Timour into Syria . 
which agree with each other in the spirit and substance rather than in the style . 
It is probable , that they have been translated , with various latitude , from the Turkish original into the Arabic and Persian tongues . 
Note Von Hammer considers the letter which Gibbon inserted in the text to be spurious . 
On the various copies of these letters , see his note , p . 
M. The Mogul emir distinguishes himself and his countrymen by the name of Turks , and stigmatizes the race and nation of Bajazet with the less honorable epithet of Turkmans . 
Yet I do not understand how the Ottomans could be descended from a Turkman sailor those inland shepherds were so remote from the sea , and all maritime affairs . 
Note Price translated the word pilot or boatman . 
had some knowledge of the prejudice and the insult . 
Note See Von Hammer , p . 
, and note , p . 
M. ! Still worse barbarities were perpetrated on these brave men . 
but I do not find that the title of Caesar has been applied by the Arabians , or assumed by the Ottomans themselves . 
Chapter LXV Elevation Of Timour Or Tamerlane , And His Death Part II . 
But these forces were not cemented by virtue and union and some powerful emirs had been seduced to desert or betray their more loyal companions . 
Among the suppliants and captives , Timour distinguished the doctors of the law , whom he invited to the dangerous honor of a personal conference . 
To these doctors he proposed a captious question , which the casuists of Bochara , Samarcand , and Herat , were incapable of resolving . 
A prudent explanation restored his tranquillity and he passed to a more familiar topic of conversation . 
What is your age ? said he to the cadhi . 
It would be the age of my eldest son you see me here a poor lame , decrepit mortal . 
Yet by my arm has the Almighty been pleased to subdue the kingdoms of Iran , Touran , and the Indies . 
During this peaceful conversation the streets of Aleppo streamed with blood , and reechoed with the cries of mothers and children , with the shrieks of violated virgins . 
I shall not dwell on the march of the destroyer from Aleppo to Damascus , where he was rudely encountered , and almost overthrown , by the armies of Egypt . 
In the pillage of Syria , the Moguls had acquired immense riches but the delivery of their pay and arrears for seven years more firmly attached them to the Imperial standard . 
Timour must have been odious to a Syrian but the notoriety of facts would have obliged him , in some measure , to respect his enemy and himself . 
from the cadhi and historian Ebn Schounah , a principal actor . 
adds no more than , men . 
Timour , in his Institutions , has not deigned to calculate his troops , his subjects , or his revenues . 
A wide latitude of non effectives was allowed by the Great Mogul for his own pride and the benefit of his officers . 
During this diversion of the Mogul arms , Bajazet had two years to collect his forces for a more serious encounter . 
They consisted of four hundred thousand horse and foot , whose merit and fidelity were of an unequal complexion . 
For this signal victory the Mogul emperor was indebted to himself , to the genius of the moment , and the discipline of thirty years . 
He had improved the tactics , without violating the manners , of his nation , whose force still consisted in the missile weapons , and rapid evolutions , of a numerous cavalry . 
His rigor and avarice had provoked a mutiny among the Turks and even his son Soliman too hastily withdrew from the field . 
The forces of Anatolia , loyal in their revolt , were drawn away to the banners of their lawful princes . 
Yet fear is still more rapid in its course and Soliman , the son of Bajazet , had already passed over to Europe with the royal treasure . 
and swelled by the German soldier to , , . 
It is evident that the Moguls were the more numerous . 
It may not be useless to mark the distances between Angora and the neighboring cities , by the journeys of the caravans , each of twenty or twenty five miles to Smyrna xx . 
, to Caesarea , viii . 
, to Nicomed a ix . 
must then put the foot of courage into the stirrup of patience . 
but Voltaire's strange suspicion , that some cannon , inscribed with strange characters , must have been sent by that monarch to Delhi , is refuted by the universal silence of contemporaries . 
See V. Hammer , vol . 
, for the singular hints which were conveyed to him of the wisdom of unlocking his hoarded treasures . 
Had you vanquished , I am not ignorant of the fate which you reserved for myself and my troops . 
But I disdain to retaliate your life and honor are secure and I shall express my gratitude to God by my clemency to man . 
The Ottoman princes were lodged in a splendid pavilion and the respect of the guards could be surpassed only by their vigilance . 
is ready on this , as on every occasion , to reject a popular tale , and to diminish the magnitude of vice and virtue and on most occasions his incredulity is reasonable . 
The reader has not forgot the garrison of French , whom the marshal Boucicault left behind him for the defence of Constantinople . 
From their account , the hardships of the prison and death of Bajazet are affirmed by the marshal's servant and historian , within the distance of seven years . 
The name of Poggius the Italian is deservedly famous among the revivers of learning in the fifteenth century . 
Without any possible correspondence between the Latin and the Arabian writer , they agree in the fact of the iron cage and their agreement is a striking proof of their common veracity . 
Ahmed Arabshah likewise relates another outrage , which Bajazet endured , of a more domestic and tender nature . 
Such is the separation of language , that the testimony of a Greek is not less independent than that of a Latin or an Arab . 
The last evidence , in every sense , is that of the Turkish annals , which have been consulted or transcribed by Leunclavius , Pocock , and Cantemir . 
They unanimously deplore the captivity of the iron cage and some credit may be allowed to national historians , who cannot stigmatize the Tartar without uncovering the shame of their king and country . 
After the perusal of Khondemir , Ebn Schounah , c . 
may affirm , that this fable is not mentioned in the most authentic histories but his denial of the visible testimony of Arabshah leaves some room to suspect his accuracy . 
pris , et mene en prison , en laquelle mourut de dure mort ! Memoires de Boucicault , P. i . 
Poggius was born in the year , and died in . 
and consequently about the end of the year . 
See a splendid and eloquent encomium of Tamerlane , p . 
qui fuere in ejus castris . 
Regen vivum cepit , caveaque in modum ferae inclusum per omnem Asian circumtulit egregium admirandumque spectaculum fortunae . 
The two authors , Andrea de Redusiis de Quero , and James de Delayto , were both contemporaries , and both chancellors , the one of Trevigi , the other of Ferrara . 
The evidence of the former is the most positive . 
He travelled in regiones Romaeas , A. H. , tom . 
Busbequius in Legatione Turcica , epist . 
Yet his respectable authority is somewhat shaken by the subsequent marriages of Amurath II . 
with a Servian , and of Mahomet II . 
Chalcondyles and Ducas speak in general terms of Bajazet's chains . 
Note Von Hammer , p . 
, cites several authorities unknown to Gibbon M From these opposite premises , a fair and moderate conclusion may be deduced . 
I am satisfied that Sherefeddin Ali has faithfully described the first ostentatious interview , in which the conqueror , whose spirits were harmonized by success , affected the character of generosity . 
Sapor , king of Persia , had been made prisoner , and enclosed in the figure of a cow's hide by Maximian or Galerius Caesar . 
will teach us to appreciate the knowledge of the Orientals of the ages which precede the Hegira . 
Von Hammer's explanation of this contested point is both simple and satisfactory . 
In such a litter , with the lattice work made of iron , Bajazet either chose or was constrained to travel . 
This was either mistaken for , or transformed by , ignorant relaters into a cage . 
The European Schiltberger , the two oldest of the Turkish historians , and the most valuable of the later compilers , Seadeddin , describe this litter . 
The two passages of the Bosphorus and Hellespont , of Constantinople and Gallipoli , were possessed , the one by the Christians , the other by the Turks . 
At the same time , they soothed his pride with tributary gifts and suppliant embassies , and prudently tempted him to retreat with the honors of victory . 
Our imagination is not less astonished by the portrait of a Mogul , who , in his camp before Smyrna , meditates , and almost accomplishes , the invasion of the Chinese empire . 
Timour was urged to this enterprise by national honor and religious zeal . 
The recent expulsion of the house of Zingis was an insult on the Mogul name and the disorders of the empire afforded the fairest opportunity for revenge . 
describes , like a curious traveller , the Straits of Gallipoli and Constantinople . 
To acquire a just idea of these events , I have compared the narratives and prejudices of the Moguls , Turks , Greeks , and Arabians . 
paints in vague and rhetorical colors . 
and for the Chronology of the Chinese emperors , De Guignes , Hist . 
Chapter LXV Elevation Of Timour Or Tamerlane , And His Death Part III . 
The marriage of six of the emperor's grandsons was esteemed an act of religion as well as of paternal tenderness and the pomp of the ancient caliphs was revived in their nuptials . 
They were celebrated in the gardens of Canighul , decorated with innumerable tents and pavilions , which displayed the luxury of a great city and the spoils of a victorious camp . 
excluded from the feast since even the casses , the smallest of fish , find their place in the ocean . 
But he was soon awakened to the cares of government and war . 
mentions the ambassadors of one of the most potent sovereigns of Europe . 
We know that it was Henry III . 
There appears likewise to have been some correspondence between the Mogul emperor and the court of Charles VII . 
They presented the emperor of China with an old horse which Timour had formerly rode . 
It was in the year that they departed from the court of Herat , to which place they returned in from Pekin . 
In his familiar discourse he was grave and modest , and if he was ignorant of the Arabic language , he spoke with fluency and elegance the Persian and Turkish idioms . 
Such was his confidence of merit , that from this reformation he derived an excuse for his victories , and a title to universal dominion . 
The four following observations will serve to appreciate his claim to the public gratitude and perhaps we shall conclude , that the Mogul emperor was rather the scourge than the benefactor of mankind . 
If some partial disorders , some local oppressions , were healed by the sword of Timour , the remedy was far more pernicious than the disease . 
By their rapine , cruelty , and discord , the petty tyrants of Persia might afflict their subjects but whole nations were crushed under the footsteps of the reformer . 
The ground which had been occupied by flourishing cities was often marked by his abominable trophies , by columns , or pyramids , of human heads . 
His most destructive wars were rather inroads than conquests . 
He invaded Turkestan , Kipzak , Russia , Hindostan , Syria , Anatolia , Armenia , and Georgia , without a hope or a desire of preserving those distant provinces . 
From thence he departed laden with spoil but he left behind him neither troops to awe the contumacious , nor magistrates to protect the obedient , natives . 
The kingdoms of Transoxiana and Persia were the proper field which he labored to cultivate and adorn , as the perpetual inheritance of his family . 
But his peaceful labors were often interrupted , and sometimes blasted , by the absence of the conqueror . 
While he triumphed on the Volga or the Ganges , his servants , and even his sons , forgot their master and their duty . 
Whatsoever might be the blessings of his administration , they evaporated with his life . 
To reign , rather than to govern , was the ambition of his children and grandchildren the enemies of each other and of the people . 
The race of Timour would have been extinct , if a hero , his descendant in the fifth degree , had not fled before the Uzbek arms to the conquest of Hindostan . 
extended their sway from the mountains of Cashmir to Cape Comorin , and from Candahar to the Gulf of Bengal . 
The bright or softer colors are borrowed from Sherefeddin , D'Herbelot , and the Institutions . 
His new system was multiplied from pieces and squares to pieces and or squares but , except in his court , the old game has been thought sufficiently elaborate . 
The Mogul emperor was rather pleased than hurt with the victory of a subject a chess player will feel the value of this encomium ! See Sherefeddin , l . 
nor will he believe that Sharokh had abolished the use and authority of that Pagan code . 
accumulates nearly , heads of the monuments of his cruelty . 
Yet I can excuse a generous enthusiasm in the reader , and still more in the editor , of the Institutions . 
The story of Timour's descendants is imperfectly told and the second and third parts of Sherefeddin are unknown . 
Shah Allum , the present Mogul , is in the fourteenth degree from Timour , by Miran Shah , his third son . 
See the second volume of Dow's History of Hindostan . 
Far different was the fate of the Ottoman monarchy . 
The massy trunk was bent to the ground , but no sooner did the hurricane pass away , than it again rose with fresh vigor and more lively vegetation . 
When Timour , in every sense , had evacuated Anatolia , he left the cities without a palace , a treasure , or a king . 
I shall enumerate their names in the order of their age and actions . 
It is doubtful , whether I relate the story of the true Mustapha , or of an impostor who personated that lost prince . 
In war he was brave , active , and fortuntae his courage was softened by clemency but it was likewise inflamed by presumption , and corrupted by intemperance and idleness . 
In a reign of three years and a half , his troops were victorious against the Christians of Hungary and the Morea but Mousa was ruined by his timorous disposition and unseasonable clemency . 
After resigning the sovereignty of Anatolia , he fell a victim to the perfidy of his ministers , and the superior ascendant of his brother Mahomet . 
The final victory of Mahomet was the just recompense of his prudence and moderation . 
Mahomet obtained Anatolia by treaty , and Romania by arms and the soldier who presented him with the head of Mousa was rewarded as the benefactor of his king and country . 
The eight years of his sole and peaceful reign were usefully employed in banishing the vices of civil discord , and restoring on a firmer basis the fabric of the Ottoman monarchy . 
whose testimony on this occasion is weighty and valuable . 
He escaped from the bath , and fled towards Constantinople . 
Five mothers from a village , Dugundschi , whose inhabitants had suffered severely from the exactions of his officers , recognized and followed him . 
Soliman shot two of them , the others discharged their arrows in their turn the sultan fell and his head was cut off . 
, , in Itinere C. P. et Amasiano . 
! See his nine battles . 
The sultan and five hundred guards embarked on board the admiral's ship which was manned by eight hundred of the bravest Franks . 
The last of these , a curious and careful observer , is entitled , from his birth and station , to particular credit in all that concerns Ionia and the islands . 
Among the nations that resorted to New Phocaea , he mentions the English an early evidence of Mediterranean trade . 
a traveller and a naturalist . 
If Timour had generously marched at the request , and to the relief , of the Greek emperor , he might be entitled to the praise and gratitude of the Christians . 
But a Mussulman , who carried into Georgia the sword of persecution , and respected the holy warfare of Bajazet , was not disposed to pity or succor the idolaters of Europe . 
The Tartar followed the impulse of ambition and the deliverance of Constantinople was the accidental consequence . 
On a sudden , he was astonished and rejoiced by the intelligence of the retreat , the overthrow , and the captivity of the Ottoman . 
Manuel immediately sailed from Modon in the Morea ascended the throne of Constantinople , and dismissed his blind competitor to an easy exile in the Isle of Lesbos . 
But , instead of prolonging the division of the Ottoman powers , the policy or passion of Manuel was tempted to assist the most formidable of the sons of Bajazet . 
At the door of his prison , Mustapha subscribed to every proposal and the keys of Gallipoli , or rather of Europe , were stipulated as the price of his deliverance . 
that lover of exotic virtue . 
After the conquest of Russia , c . 
, and the passage of the Danube , his Tartar hero relieves , visits , admires , and refuses the city of Constantine . 
His flattering pencil deviates in every line from the truth of history yet his pleasing fictions are more excusable than the gross errors of Cantemir . 
For the reigns of Manuel and John , of Mahomet I. and Amurath II . 
and the three Greeks , Chalcondyles , Phranza , and Ducas , who is still superior to his rivals . 
Note According to Von Hammer , this calculation is much too low . 
But he might blush , if a fanatic could blush , at the failure of his assurances . 
While he led his Janizaries to new conquests in Europe and Asia , the Byzantine empire was indulged in a servile and precarious respite of thirty years . 
The Turkish sultans assume the title of khan . 
Yet Abulghazi is ignorant of his Ottoman cousins . 
His presumption condemns the singular exception of continuing offices in the same family . 
To the spirit and constitution of that nation , a strong and singular influence may , however , be ascribed . 
Such a mode of institution was admirably adapted to the form and spirit of a despotic monarchy . 
The ministers and generals were , in the strictest sense , the slaves of the emperor , to whose bounty they were indebted for their instruction and support . 
The Ottoman candidates were trained by the virtues of abstinence to those of action by the habits of submission to those of command . 
A similar spirit was diffused among the troops and their silence and sobriety , their patience and modesty , have extorted the reluctant praise of their Christian enemies . 
exhibit the rude lineament of the Ottoman policy , and the transmutation of Christian children into Turkish soldiers . 
and a description of the Seraglio , approved by Mr. Greaves himself , a curious traveller , and inserted in the second volume of his works . 
From the series of cxv . 
their place may be valued at three years and a half purchase . 
See the entertaining and judicious letters of Busbequius . 
Such a weapon was in their hands such a discovery had been made in the critical moment of their fate . 
It was soon observed , that if the expansive force were compressed in a strong tube , a ball of stone or iron might be expelled with irresistible and destructive velocity . 
The first and second volumes of Dr . 
Watson's Chemical Essays contain two valuable discourses on the discovery and composition of gunpowder . 
On this subject modern testimonies cannot be trusted . 
must be weighed against the silence of Froissard . 
who , before the year , execrates this terrestrial thunder , nuper rara , nunc communis . 
It seems , he says , as if God thundered con grande uccisione di genti e efondamento di cavalli . 
in , at the siege of Constantinople . 
Chapter LXVI Union Of The Greek And Latin Churches . 
Part I. Applications Of The Eastern Emperors To The Popes . 
Visits To The West , Of John The First , Manuel , And John The Second , Palaeologus . 
Union Of The Greek And Latin Churches , Promoted By The Council Of Basil , And Concluded At Ferrara And Florence . 
State Of Literature At Constantinople . 
Its Revival In Italy By The Greek Fugitives . 
Curiosity And Emulation Of The Latins . 
The date of the Mogul invasion is marked in the soft and charitable language of John Vataces . 
The ways of union are twofold force and persuasion . 
Of force , the inefficacy has been already tried since the Latins have subdued the empire , without subduing the minds , of the Greeks . 
The method of persuasion , though slow , is sure and permanent . 
But at this moment , continued the subtle agent , the empire is assaulted and endangered by the Turks , who have occupied four of the greatest cities of Anatolia . 
If the suspicious Latins should require some pledge , some previous effect of the sincerity of the Greeks , the answers of Barlaam were perspicuous and rational . 
If some difference of faith or ceremonies should be found incurable , the Greeks , however , are the disciples of Christ and the Turks are the common enemies of the Christian name . 
The Armenians , Cyprians , and Rhodians , are equally attacked and it will become the piety of the French princes to draw their swords in the general defence of religion . 
The reasons , the offers , and the demands , of Andronicus were eluded with cold and stately indifference . 
For such an embassy , a time and character less propitious could not easily have been found . 
whose abstracts I have always found to be clear , accurate , and impartial . 
of Petrarch exposes the danger of the bark , and the incapacity of the pilot . 
Heu quanto felicius patrio terram sulcasset aratro , quam scalmum piscatorium ascendisset ! This satire engages his biographer to weigh the virtues and vices of Benedict XII . 
He gave occasion to the saying , Bibamus papaliter . 
After the decease of Andronicus , while the Greeks were distracted by intestine war , they could not presume to agitate a general union of the Christians . 
Words are insufficient to express the ardor with which I sigh for the reunion of the scattered members of Christ . 
See the original Lives of Clement VI . 
The abbe de Sade treats him with the most indulgence but he is a gentleman as well as a priest . 
who , amidst the praises and virtues which he bestows on himself , reveals the uneasiness of a guilty conscience . 
Yet of all the Byzantine princes , that pupil , John Palaeologus , was the best disposed to embrace , to believe , and to obey , the shepherd of the West . 
The first article of the treaty is an oath of fidelity and obedience to Innocent the Sixth and his successors , the supreme pontiffs of the Roman and Catholic church . 
For these condescensions he requires a prompt succor of fifteen galleys , with five hundred men at arms , and a thousand archers , to serve against his Christian and Mussulman enemies . 
from Raynaldus , who drew it from the Vatican archives . 
It was not worth the trouble of a pious forgery . 
In this suppliant visit , the emperor of Constantinople , whose vanity was lost in his distress , gave more than could be expected of empty sounds and formal submissions . 
After this purification , he was introduced to a public audience in the church of St . 
The disconsolate Greek prepared for his return , but even his return was impeded by a most ignominious obstacle . 
His eldest son , Andronicus , the regent of Constantinople , was repeatedly urged to exhaust every resource and even by stripping the churches , to extricate his father from captivity and disgrace . 
Yet , from some variations , I suspect the papal writers of slightly magnifying the genuflections of Palaeologus . 
Paullo minus quam si fuisset Imperator Romanorum . 
It was confined to the successors of Charlemagne , and to them only on Christmas day . 
On all other festivals these Imperial deacons were content to serve the pope , as he said mass , with the book and the corporale . 
Yet the abbe de Sade generously thinks that the merits of Charles IV . 
overflowed from France into Italy after the peace of Bretigny in . 
is rather true than civil . 
Ci mancava ancor questo , che dopo essere calpestrata l'Italia da tanti masnadieri Tedeschi ed Ungheri , venissero fin dall' Inghliterra nuovi cani a finire di divorarla . 
The Greek supposes his journey to the king of France , which is sufficiently refuted by the silence of the national historians . 
His return in , and the coronation of Manuel , Sept . 
leaves some intermediate aera for the conspiracy and punishment of Andronicus . 
Thirty years after the return of Palaeologus , his son and successor , Manuel , from a similar motive , but on a larger scale , again visited the countries of the West . 
From Venice he proceeded to Padua and Pavia and even the duke of Milan , a secret ally of Bajazet , gave him safe and honorable conduct to the verge of his dominions . 
But the slightest glance on the state of the kingdom must teach him to despair of any effectual assistance . 
When Manuel had satiated the curiosity , and perhaps fatigued the patience , of the French , he resolved on a visit to the adjacent island . 
In his progress from Dover , he was entertained at Canterbury with due reverence by the prior and monks of St . 
who , during many days , was lodged and treated in London as emperor of the East . 
But the state of England was still more adverse to the design of the holy war . 
Yet he had escaped the ignominious necessity of offering his religion to public or private sale . 
The Roman pope was offended by this neglect accused him of irreverence to an image of Christ and exhorted the princes of Italy to reject and abandon the obstinate schismatic . 
Memoires de Boucicault , P. i . 
Muratori , Annali d'Italia , tom . 
John Galeazzo was the first and most powerful duke of Milan . 
His connection with Bajazet is attested by Froissard and he contributed to save and deliver the French captives of Nicopolis . 
who quotes Juvenal des Ursins and the monk of St . 
who quotes nobody according to the last fashion of the French writers . 
A short note of Manuel in England is extracted by Dr . 
C. P. Imperator , diu variisque et horrendis Paganorum insultibus coarctatus , ut pro eisdem resistentiam triumphalem perquireret , Anglorum Regem visitare decrevit , c . 
tantum Heroa , duxitque Londonias , et per multos dies exhibuit gloriose , pro expensis hospitii sui solvens , et eum respiciens tanto fastigio donativis . 
Shakspeare begins and ends the play of Henry IV . 
with that prince's vow of a crusade , and his belief that he should die in Jerusalem . 
The image of Christ , which the Greek emperor refused to worship , was probably a work of sculpture . 
Chapter LXVI Union Of The Greek And Latin Churches . 
from Prague in Bohemia to the River Tartessus , and the Pyrenaean Mountains . 
After the Scythians or Tartars , the Germans are the most numerous of nations they are brave and patient and were they united under a single head , their force would be irresistible . 
By the gift of the pope , they have acquired the privilege of choosing the Roman emperor nor is any people more devoutly attached to the faith and obedience of the Latin patriarch . 
The French are an ancient and opulent people and their language and manners , though somewhat different , are not dissimilar from those of the Italians . 
In populousness and power , in richness and luxury , London , the metropolis of the isle , may claim a preeminence over all the cities of the West . 
The kingdom has been often afflicted by foreign conquest and domestic sedition but the natives are bold and hardy , renowned in arms and victorious in war . 
The Greek and Turkish history of Laonicus Chalcondyles ends with the winter of and the abrupt conclusion seems to mark , that he laid down his pen in the same year . 
We know that he was an Athenian , and that some contemporaries of the same name contributed to the revival of the Greek language in Italy . 
seems ignorant of his life and character . 
For his descriptions of Germany , France , and England , see l . 
I shall not animadvert on the geographical errors of Chalcondyles . 
or whose ignorance may be excused . 
Most of the old romances were translated in the xivth century into French prose , and soon became the favorite amusement of the knights and ladies in the court of Charles VI . 
If a Greek believed in the exploits of Rowland and Oliver , he may surely be excused , since the monks of St . 
Denys , the national historians , have inserted the fables of Archbishop Turpin in their Chronicles of France . 
London appears to have maintained this preeminence of wealth and magnitude and her gradual increase has , at least , kept pace with the general improvement of Europe . 
Note I can discover no pious horror in the plain manner in which Chalcondyles relates this strange usage . 
Gibbon is possibly right as to the origin of this extraordinary mistake . 
has a pretty passage on the English fashion of kissing strangers on their arrival and departure , from whence , however , he draws no scandalous inferences . 
The Arreoy of Otaheite , so certain at first , is become less visible and scandalous , in proportion as we have studied the manners of that gentle and amorous people . 
After his return , and the victory of Timour , Manuel reigned many years in prosperity and peace . 
When Martin the Fifth ascended without a rival the chair of St . 
Peter , a friendly intercourse of letters and embassies was revived between the East and West . 
Yet under this mask of zeal , a discerning eye will perceive that all was hollow and insincere in the court and church of Constantinople . 
But we have an opportunity of unfolding the most secret intentions of Manuel , as he explained them in a private conversation without artifice or disguise . 
One day , in the presence only of the historian Phranza , his favorite chamberlain , he opened to his colleague and successor the true principle of his negotiations with the pope . 
As often as you are threatened by the miscreants , present this danger before their eyes . 
Propose a council consult on the means but ever delay and avoid the convocation of an assembly , which cannot tend either to our spiritual or temporal emolument . 
His daring spirit might have suited the happier times of our ancestors but the present state requires not an emperor , but a cautious steward of the last relics of our fortunes . 
du Concile de Constance , tom . 
and or the ecclesiastical history of the times , the Annals of Spondanus the Bibliotheque of Dupin , tom . 
, and xxist and xxiid volumes of the History , or rather the Continuation , of Fleury . 
has collected his life from his own writings . 
Yet the emperor John was cold , and he preferred the service of the despots of Peloponnesus . 
While so many manuscripts of the Greek original are extant in the libraries of Rome , Milan , the Escurial , c . 
Note The Greek text of Phranzes was edited by F. C. Alter Vindobonae . 
It has been re edited by Bekker for the new edition of the Byzantines , Bonn , M. See Ducange , Fam . 
which would produce a Greek mile , still smaller than that of French toises , which is assigned by D'Anville , as still in use in Turkey . 
Five miles are commonly reckoned for the breadth of the isthmus . 
See the Travels of Spon , Wheeler and Chandler . 
The eldest of the sons of Manuel , John Palaeologus the Second , was acknowledged , after his father's death , as the sole emperor of the Greeks . 
The first objection of the Jews is on the death of Christ if it were voluntary , Christ was a suicide which the emperor parries with a mystery . 
They then dispute on the conception of the Virgin , the sense of the prophecies , c . 
Their great charter , the right of election , was annihilated by appeals , evaded by trusts or commendams , disappointed by reversionary grants , and superseded by previous and arbitrary reservations . 
These manifold scandals were aggravated by the great schism of the West , which continued above fifty years . 
On the notice that Eugenius had fulminated a bull for that purpose , they ventured to summon , to admonish , to threaten , to censure the contumacious successor of St . 
Palaeologus was not averse to the proposal and his ambassadors were introduced with due honors into the Catholic senate . 
The city of Avignon advanced the funds for the preliminary expenses and the embarkation was prepared at Marseilles with some difficulty and delay . 
the papal system is deeply studied and freely described . 
Should Rome and her religion be annihilated , this golden volume may still survive , a philosophical history , and a salutary warning . 
left behind him , at Avignon , eighteen millions of gold florins , and the value of seven millions more in plate and jewels . 
whose brother received the account from the papal treasurers . 
A treasure of six or eight millions sterling in the xivth century is enormous , and almost incredible . 
The original acts or minutes of the council of Basil are preserved in the public library , in twelve volumes in folio . 
Basil was a free city , conveniently situate on the Rhine , and guarded by the arms of the neighboring and confederate Swiss . 
In , the university was founded by Pope Pius II . 
who had been secretary to the council . 
were more than they could hope or want . 
I use indifferently the words ducat and florin , which derive their names , the former from the dukes of Milan , the latter from the republic of Florence . 
These gold pieces , the first that were coined in Italy , perhaps in the Latin world , may be compared in weight and value to one third of the English guinea . 
The decrees of Basil continually tended to circumscribe the despotism of the pope , and to erect a supreme and perpetual tribunal in the church . 
Eugenius was impatient of the yoke and the union of the Greeks might afford a decent pretence for translating a rebellious synod from the Rhine to the Po . 
Assaulted by the importunity of the factions , who were ready to fight for the possession of his person , Palaeologus hesitated before he left his palace and country on a perilous experiment . 
His father's advice still dwelt on his memory and reason must suggest , that since the Latins were divided among themselves , they could never unite in a foreign cause . 
Even the Turkish sultan was a counsellor whom it might be unsafe to trust , but whom it was dangerous to offend . 
Amurath was unskilled in the disputes , but he was apprehensive of the union , of the Christians . 
The five cross bearers , or dignitaries , of St . 
Sophia , were bound to attend his person and one of these , the great ecclesiarch or preacher , Sylvester Syropulus , has composed a free and curious history of the false union . 
Of the clergy that reluctantly obeyed the summons of the emperor and the patriarch , submission was the first duty , and patience the most useful virtue . 
Some monks and philosophers were named to display the science and sanctity of the Greek church and the service of the choir was performed by a select band of singers and musicians . 
The precious vases of St . 
At the end of the Latin version of Phranzes , we read a long Greek epistle or declamation of George of Trebizond , who advises the emperor to prefer Eugenius and Italy . 
He treats with contempt the schismatic assembly of Basil , the Barbarians of Gaul and Germany , who had conspired to transport the chair of St . 
attests his own indignation , and that of his countrymen and the Basil deputies , who excused the rash declaration , could neither deny nor alter an act of the council . 
The naval orders of the synod were less peremptory , and , till the hostile squadrons appeared , both parties tried to conceal their quarrel from the Greeks . 
Utinam ne synodus ista unquam fuisset , si tantes offensiones et detrimenta paritura erat . 
This Turkish embassy is likewise mentioned by Syropulus , and Amurath kept his word . 
but he never attacked , the city . 
Yet it would have been difficult for him to have practised the lessons of Gregory VII . 
The Christian name of Sylvester is borrowed from the Latin calendar . 
the Syropulus of his own manuscript , whose name is subscribed with his own hand in the acts of the council of Florence . 
His passions were cooled by time and retirement and , although Syropulus is often partial , he is never intemperate . 
was first published with a loose and florid version , by Robert Creyghton , chaplain to Charles II . 
The zeal of the editor has prefixed a polemic title , for the beginning of the original is wanting . 
simply expresses his intention and the Latin of Creyghton may afford a specimen of his florid paraphrase . 
Ut pompa circumductus noster Imperator Italiae populis aliquis deauratus Jupiter crederetur , aut Croesus ex opulenta Lydia . 
and that the historian has the uncommon talent of placing each scene before the reader's eye . 
Chapter LXVI Union Of The Greek And Latin Churches . 
After a tedious and troublesome navigation of seventy seven days , this religious squadron cast anchor before Venice and their reception proclaimed the joy and magnificence of that powerful republic . 
In the command of the world , the modest Augustus had never claimed such honors from his subjects as were paid to his feeble successor by an independent state . 
Seated on the poop on a lofty throne , he received the visit , or , in the Greek style , the adoration of the doge and senators . 
They sighed to behold the spoils and trophies with which it had been decorated after the sack of Constantinople . 
Nor would the patriarch descend from his galley , till a ceremony almost equal , had been stipulated between the bishops of Rome and Constantinople . 
The latter was saluted by his brother with a kiss of union and charity nor would any of the Greek ecclesiastics submit to kiss the feet of the Western primate . 
After much debate , it was agreed that the right and left sides of the church should be occupied by the two nations that the solitary chair of St . 
at the sight of Venice , abundantly proves that in the xvth century it was the first and most splendid of the Christian cities . 
and was lord of Ferrara , Modena , Reggio , Parma , Rovigo , and Commachio . 
Yet another spectator confesses that the Greek fashion was piu grave e piu degna than the Italian . 
But as soon as festivity and form had given place to a more serious treaty , the Greeks were dissatisfied with their journey , with themselves , and with the pope . 
The pope had sent him eleven miserable hacks but he bought a strong and swift horse that came from Russia . 
The payment of the first month amounted to florins , a sum which will not allow us to reckon above Greeks of every condition . 
deplores the imprisonment of the Greeks , and the tyranny of the emperor and patriarch . 
The wars of Italy are most clearly represented in the xiiith vol . 
of the Annals of Muratori . 
Yet all these obstacles were surmounted by time and policy . 
After the labor of nine months , and the debates of twenty five sessions , they attained the advantage and glory of the reunion of the Greeks . 
Four principal questions had been agitated between the two churches . 
The use of unleaven bread in the communion of Christ's body . 
The supremacy of the pope . 
The single or double procession of the Holy Ghost . 
In earthly affairs , it is not easy to conceive how an assembly equal of legislators can bind their successors invested with powers equal to their own . 
But the dictates of inspiration must be true and unchangeable nor should a private bishop , or a provincial synod , have presumed to innovate against the judgment of the Catholic church . 
Of this at least we may be sure , that neither side could be convinced by the arguments of their opponents . 
Prejudice may be enlightened by reason , and a superficial glance may be rectified by a clear and more perfect view of an object adapted to our faculties . 
Syropulus is pleased to reckon seven hundred prelates in the council of Basil . 
The error is manifest , and perhaps voluntary . 
The shame of the Latins was aggravated by their producing an old MS . 
of the second council of Nice , with filioque in the Nicene creed . 
The ready and active obedience of the archbishops of Russia and Nice , of Isidore and Bessarion , was prompted and recompensed by their speedy promotion to the dignity of cardinals . 
In the first private assembly of the Greeks , the formulary of union was approved by twenty four , and rejected by twelve , members but the five cross bearers of St . 
Sophia , who aspired to represent the patriarch , were disqualified by ancient discipline and their right of voting was transferred to the obsequious train of monks , grammarians , and profane laymen . 
The will of the monarch produced a false and servile unanimity , and no more than two patriots had courage to speak their own sentiments and those of their country . 
who never dissembles the vices of his own party , and fairly praises the virtues of the Latins . 
One had possessed , for his whole property , three old gowns , c . 
yet he relates some suspicious circumstances and their bribery and corruption are positively affirmed by the historian Ducas . 
The same year , and almost the same day , were marked by the deposition of Eugenius at Basil and , at Florence , by his reunion of the Greeks and Latins . 
Two copies might have sufficed for the East and West but Eugenius was not satisfied , unless four authentic and similar transcripts were signed and attested as the monuments of his victory . 
On a memorable day , the sixth of July , the successors of St . 
Yet the emperor and his clergy were not totally unmindful of national honor . 
the manners of Eugenius IV . 
appear to have been decent , and even exemplary . 
His situation , exposed to the world and to his enemies , was a restraint , and is a pledge . 
Syropulus , rather than subscribe , would have assisted , as the least evil , at the ceremony of the union . 
None of these original acts of union can at present be produced . 
who condemns them for the variety and imperfections of the Greek signatures . 
So nugatory , or rather so fabulous , are these reunions of the Nestorians , Jacobites , c . 
, that I have turned over , without success , the Bibliotheca Orientalis of Assemannus , a faithful slave of the Vatican . 
Ripaille is situate near Thonon in Savoy , on the southern side of the Lake of Geneva . 
has celebrated the place and the founder . 
Aeneas Sylvius , and the fathers of Basil , applaud the austere life of the ducal hermit but the French and Italian proverbs most unluckily attest the popular opinion of his luxury . 
and the respect of the Gallican church for the adverse parties confines their members to an awkward moderation . 
It is from the disciples of such a school that the Latin language received the versions of Aristotle and Plato so obscure in sense , and in spirit so poor . 
But the Greeks who have escaped the contagion , are those whom we follow and they alone are worthy of our imitation . 
In familiar discourse , they still speak the tongue of Aristophanes and Euripides , of the historians and philosophers of Athens and the style of their writings is still more elaborate and correct . 
With foreigners do I say ? They live retired and sequestered from the eyes of their fellow citizens . 
Seldom are they seen in the streets and when they leave their houses , it is in the dusk of evening , on visits to the churches and their nearest kindred . 
On these occasions , they are on horseback , covered with a veil , and encompassed by their parents , their husbands , or their servants . 
for the most part from his own letters . 
His elaborate writings , and those of his contemporaries , are forgotten but their familiar epistles still describe the men and the times . 
He married , and had perhaps debauched , the daughter of John , and the granddaughter of Manuel Chrysoloras . 
She was young , beautiful , and wealthy and her noble family was allied to the Dorias of Genoa and the emperors of Constantinople . 
Graeci quibus lingua depravata non sit . 
ita loquuntur vulgo hac etiam tempestate ut Aristophanes comicus , aut Euripides tragicus , ut oratores omnes , ut historiographi , ut philosophi . 
litterati autem homines et doctius et emendatius . 
He observes in another passage , uxor illa mea Theodora locutione erat admodum moderata et suavi et maxime Attica . 
Philelphus , absurdly enough , derives this Greek or Oriental jealousy from the manners of ancient Rome . 
But an important distinction has been already noticed the Greeks were stationary or retrograde , while the Latins were advancing with a rapid and progressive motion . 
The nations were excited by the spirit of independence and emulation and even the little world of the Italian states contained more people and industry than the decreasing circle of the Byzantine empire . 
In Europe , the lower ranks of society were relieved from the yoke of feudal servitude and freedom is the first step to curiosity and knowledge . 
At the end of the xvth century , there existed in Europe about fifty universities , and of these the foundation of ten or twelve is prior to the year . 
They were crowded in proportion to their scarcity . 
Bologna contained , students , chiefly of the civil law . 
Yet even this decrease is much superior to the present list of the members of the university . 
Chapter LXVI Union Of The Greek And Latin Churches . 
The most learned Italians of the fifteenth century have confessed and applauded the restoration of Greek literature , after a long oblivion of many hundred years . 
In a corner of Italy , it faintly existed as the popular , or at least as the ecclesiastical dialect . 
The first impression of the Doric and Ionic colonies has never been completely erased the Calabrian churches were long attached to the throne of Constantinople and the monks of St . 
Basil pursued their studies in Mount Athos and the schools of the East . 
Greece had not produced his equal in the knowledge of history , grammar , and philosophy and his merit was celebrated in the attestations of the princes and doctors of Constantinople . 
In the court of Avignon , he formed an intimate connection with Petrarch , the first of the Latin scholars and the desire of mutual instruction was the principle of their literary commerce . 
But , alas ! Homer is dumb , or I am deaf nor is it in my power to enjoy the beauty which I possess . 
I have seated him by the side of Plato , the prince of poets near the prince of philosophers and I glory in the sight of my illustrious guests . 
Of those writers who professedly treat of the restoration of the Greek learning in Italy , the two principal are Hodius , Dr . 
The Oxford professor is a laborious scholar , but the librarian of Modema enjoys the superiority of a modern and national historian . 
If it were eradicated by the Romans , it was revived and perpetuated by the monks of St . 
vix , non dicam libros sed nomen Homeri audiverunt . 
Perhaps , in that respect , the xiiith century was less happy than the age of Charlemagne . 
See the character of Barlaam , in Boccace de Genealog . 
For the connection of Petrarch and Barlaam , and the two interviews at Avignon in , and at Naples in , see the excellent Memoires sur la Vie de Petrarque , tom . 
The bishopric to which Barlaam retired , was the old Locri , in the middle ages . 
Donasti Homerum non in alienum sermonem Alienum sermonen violento alveo derivatum , sed ex ipsis Graeci eloquii scatebris , et qualis divino illi profluxit ingenio . 
Sine tua voce Homerus tuus apud me mutus , immo vero ego apud illum surdus sum . 
Gaudeo tamen vel adspectu solo , ac saepe illum amplexus atque suspirans dico , O magne vir , c . 
The prize which eluded the efforts of Petrarch , was obtained by the fortune and industry of his friend Boccace , the father of the Tuscan prose . 
In his passage , Petrarch entertained him at Padua a short time he enjoyed the scholar , but was justly offended with the gloomy and unsocial temper of the man . 
Discontented with the world and with himself , Leo depreciated his present enjoyments , while absent persons and objects were dear to his imagination . 
The humane Petrarch dropped a tear on his disaster but he was most anxious to learn whether some copy of Euripides or Sophocles might not be saved from the hands of the mariners . 
The editions , versions , imitations of his novels , are innumerable . 
Yet he was ashamed to communicate that trifling , and perhaps scandalous , work to Petrarch , his respectable friend , in whose letters and memoirs he conspicuously appears . 
This translation of Homer was by Pilatus , not by Boccacio . 
M. Boccace indulges an honest vanity Ostentationis causa Graeca carmina adscripsi . 
jure utor meo meum est hoc decus , mea gloria scilicet inter Etruscos Graecis uti carminibus . 
Nonne ego fui qui Leontium Pilatum , c . 
who has very happily caught the lively and dramatic manner of his original . 
But the faint rudiments of Greek learning , which Petrarch had encouraged and Boccace had planted , soon withered and expired . 
Previous to his own journey the emperor Manuel despatched his envoys and orators to implore the compassion of the Western princes . 
By his knowledge , not only of the Greek , but of the Latin tongue , Chrysoloras deserved the stipend , and surpassed the expectation , of the republic . 
His school was frequented by a crowd of disciples of every rank and age and one of these , in a general history , has described his motives and his success . 
The presence of the emperor recalled Chrysoloras from the college to the court but he afterwards taught at Pavia and Rome with equal industry and applause . 
The remainder of his life , about fifteen years , was divided between Italy and Constantinople , between embassies and lessons . 
is angry with Leonard Aretin , Guarinus , Paulus Jovius , c . 
, for affirming , that the Greek letters were restored in Italy post septingentos annos as if , says he , they had flourished till the end of the viith century . 
The precise date of his arrival floats between the years and , and is only confined by the reign of Boniface IX . 
The name of Aretinus has been assumed by five or six natives of Arezzo in Tuscany , of whom the most famous and the most worthless lived in the xvith century . 
See the passage in Aretin . 
Commentario Rerum suo Tempore in Italia gestarum , apud Hodium , p . 
Another Italian writer adds the names of Paulus Petrus Vergerius , Omnibonus Vincentius , Poggius , Franciscus Barbarus , c . 
From the terror or oppression of the Turkish arms , the natives of Thessalonica and Constantinople escaped to a land of freedom , curiosity , and wealth . 
Peter floated for a moment on the uncertain breath of a conclave . 
Their labors were not inferior to those of Bessarion , whose purple they revered , and whose fortune was the secret object of their envy . 
From this character , Janus Lascaris will deserve an exception . 
His eloquence , politeness , and Imperial descent , recommended him to the French monarch and in the same cities he was alternately employed to teach and to negotiate . 
Duty and interest prompted them to cultivate the study of the Latin language and the most successful attained the faculty of writing and speaking with fluency and elegance in a foreign idiom . 
A vicious pronunciation , which they introduced , was banished from the schools by the reason of the succeeding age . 
Theodore Gaza , George of Trebizond , aud the rest of the Greeks whom I have named or omitted , are inserted in their proper chapters of his learned work . 
See likewise Tiraboschi , in the st and d parts of the vith tome . 
considers that Hody has refuted this idle tale . 
M. Such as George of Trebizond , Theodore Gaza , Argyropulus , Andronicus of Thessalonica , Philelphus , Poggius , Blondus , Nicholas Perrot , Valla , Campanus , Platina , c . 
nullo aevo perituri , p . 
The modern Greeks pronounce it as a V consonant , and confound three vowels , and several diphthongs . 
but it is difficult to paint sounds by words and in their reference to modern use , they can be understood only by their respective countrymen . 
Yet the fleeting shadows of metaphysics were pursued with more curiosity and ardor . 
After a long oblivion , Plato was revived in Italy by a venerable Greek , who taught in the house of Cosmo of Medicis . 
George Gemistus Pletho , a various and voluminous writer , the master of Bessarion , and all the Platonists of the times . 
He visited Italy in his old age , and soon returned to end his days in Peloponnesus . 
See the curious Diatribe of Leo Allatius de Georgiis , in Fabricius . 
I have fairly represented the literary merits of the Greeks yet it must be confessed , that they were seconded and surpassed by the ardor of the Latins . 
Italy was divided into many independent states and at that time it was the ambition of princes and republics to vie with each other in the encouragement and reward of literature . 
The fame of Nicholas the Fifth has not been adequate to his merits . 
The influence of the holy see pervaded Christendom and he exerted that influence in the search , not of benefices , but of books . 
The example of the Roman pontiff was preceded or imitated by a Florentine merchant , who governed the republic without arms and without a title . 
The genius and education of his grandson Lorenzo rendered him not only a patron , but a judge and candidate , in the literary race . 
The rest of Italy was animated by a similar spirit , and the progress of the nation repaid the liberality of their princes . 
The Latins held the exclusive property of their own literature and these disciples of Greece were soon capable of transmitting and improving the lessons which they had imbibed . 
A single manuscript imported from Greece is revived in ten thousand copies and each copy is fairer than the original . 
In this form , Homer and Plato would peruse with more satisfaction their own writings and their scholiasts must resign the prize to the labors of our Western editors . 
and Hody in the articles of Theodore Gaza , George of Trebizond , c . 
who bestows a due measure of praise on Alphonso of Arragon , king of Naples , the dukes of Milan , Ferrara Urbino , c . 
The republic of Venice has deserved the least from the gratitude of scholars . 
from the preface of Janus Lascaris to the Greek Anthology , printed at Florence , . 
Miserat enim ipsum Laurentius ille Medices in Graeciam ad inquirendos simul , et quantovis emendos pretio bonos libros . 
It is remarkable enough , that the research was facilitated by Sultan Bajazet II . 
Knight's curious Life of Erasmus . 
Although a stout academical patriot , he is forced to acknowledge that Erasmus learned Greek at Oxford , and taught it at Cambridge . 
The jealous Italians were desirous of keeping a monopoly of Greek learning . 
See the Annales Typographical of Mattaire , and the Bibliographie Instructive of De Bure , a knowing bookseller of Paris . 
Before the revival of classic literature , the Barbarians in Europe were immersed in ignorance and their vulgar tongues were marked with the rudeness and poverty of their manners . 
I will select three singular examples of this classic enthusiasm . 
Yet the spirit of bigotry might often discern a serious impiety in the sportive play of fancy and learning . 
Chapter LXVII Schism Of The Greeks And Latins . 
Part I. Schism Of The Greeks And Latins . 
Reign And Character Of Amurath The Second . 
Crusade Of Ladislaus , King Of Hungary . 
Constantine Palaeologus , Last Emperor Of The East . 
The respective merits of Rome and Constantinople are compared and celebrated by an eloquent Greek , the father of the Italian schools . 
Those gods , and those men , had long since vanished but to the eye of liberal enthusiasm , the majesty of ruin restored the image of her ancient prosperity . 
to the honor of the original , and parents are delighted to be renewed , and even excelled , by the superior merit of their children . 
Constantinople , says the orator , is situate on a commanding point , between Europe and Asia , between the Archipelago and the Euxine . 
The harbor , encompassed on all sides by the sea , and the continent , is the most secure and capacious in the world . 
A broad and rapid stream may be introduced into the ditches and the artificial island may be encompassed , like Athens , by land or water . 
Two strong and natural causes are alleged for the perfection of the model of new Rome . 
But the free idea of Constantinople was formed and executed by a single mind and the primitive model was improved by the obedient zeal of the subjects and successors of the first monarch . 
Sophia the best conclusion , since it could not be described according to its merits , and after it no other object could deserve to be mentioned . 
But he forgets that , a century before , the trembling fabrics of the colossus and the church had been saved and supported by the timely care of Andronicus the Elder . 
Thirty years after the emperor had fortified St . 
Sophia with two new buttresses or pyramids , the eastern hemisphere suddenly gave way and the images , the altars , and the sanctuary , were crushed by the falling ruin . 
The superscription suggests a chronological remark , that John Palaeologus II . 
was associated in the empire before the year , the date of Chrysoloras's death . 
Somebody observed that the city of Athens might be circumnavigated . 
but his measures are false and inconsistent . 
The editor Boivin consulted his friend Girardon and the sculptor gave him the true proportions of an equestrian statue . 
See the decay and repairs of St . 
The building was propped by Andronicus in , the eastern hemisphere fell in . 
The Greeks , in their pompous rhetoric , exalt the beauty and holiness of the church , an earthly heaven the abode of angels , and of God himself , c . 
The last hope of the falling city and empire was placed in the harmony of the mother and daughter , in the maternal tenderness of Rome , and the filial obedience of Constantinople . 
No sooner did they land on the Byzantine shore , than they were saluted , or rather assailed , with a general murmur of zeal and discontent . 
Instead of justifying their conduct , they deplored their weakness , professed their contrition , and cast themselves on the mercy of God and of their brethren . 
Alas ! we have been seduced by distress , by fraud , and by the hopes and fears of a transitory life . 
The hand that has signed the union should be cut off and the tongue that has pronounced the Latin creed deserves to be torn from the root . 
After the decease of the patriarch Joseph , the archbishops of Heraclea and Trebizond had courage to refuse the vacant office and Cardinal Bessarion preferred the warm and comfortable shelter of the Vatican . 
The choice of the emperor and his clergy was confined to Metrophanes of Cyzicus he was consecrated in St . 
Sophia , but the temple was vacant . 
The cross bearers abdicated their service the infection spread from the city to the villages and Metrophanes discharged , without effect , some ecclesiastical thunders against a nation of schismatics . 
The eyes of the Greeks were directed to Mark of Ephesus , the champion of his country and the sufferings of the holy confessor were repaid with a tribute of admiration and applause . 
opens the schism from the first office of the Greeks at Venice to the general opposition at Constantinople , of the clergy and people . 
and Ducas , the last of whom writes with truth and freedom . 
The sense of the latter is drowned in prejudice and passion , as soon as Rome and religion are concerned . 
The schism was not confined to the narrow limits of the Byzantine empire . 
Of the sectaries of the Greek communion , the Russians were the most powerful , ignorant , and superstitious . 
Their primate , the cardinal Isidore , hastened from Florence to Moscow , to reduce the independent nation under the Roman yoke . 
But the Russian bishops had been educated at Mount Athos and the prince and people embraced the theology of their priests . 
The errors of the Bohemians were excused by their abhorrence for the pope and a deputation of the Greek clergy solicited the friendship of those sanguinary enthusiasts . 
While Eugenius triumphed in the union and orthodoxy of the Greeks , his party was contracted to the walls , or rather to the palace of Constantinople . 
is extracted from the patriarchal archives . 
The scenes of Ferrara and Florence are described by ignorance and passion but the Russians are credible in the account of their own prejudices . 
The epistle of the Greeks with a Latin version , is extant in the college library at Prague . 
Sultan Murad , or Amurath , lived forty nine , and reigned thirty years , six months , and eight days . 
No man obtained more or greater victories than Amurath Belgrade alone withstood his attacks . 
Under his reign , the soldier was ever victorious , the citizen rich and secure . 
If he subdued any country , his first care was to build mosques and caravansaras , hospitals , and colleges . 
Every year he gave a thousand pieces of gold to the sons of the Prophet and sent two thousand five hundred to the religious persons of Mecca , Medina , and Jerusalem . 
If the most reasonable excuse be rejected , few acts of obedience will be found impossible and guilt must tremble , where innocence cannot always be secure . 
The Hungarians were commonly the aggressors he was provoked by the revolt of Scanderbeg and the perfidious Caramanian was twice vanquished , and twice pardoned , by the Ottoman monarch . 
See the siege and massacre at Thessalonica . 
M. See Cantemir , History of the Othman Empire , p . 
In his good faith towards the garrison of Sfetigrade , he was a lesson and example to his son Mahomet . 
Resigning the sceptre to his son , he retired to the pleasant residence of Magnesia but he retired to the society of saints and hermits . 
But he was soon awakened from his dreams of enthusiasm by the Hungarian invasion and his obedient son was the foremost to urge the public danger and the wishes of the people . 
These pious occupations were again interrupted by the danger of the state . 
Age or disease , misfortune or caprice , have tempted several princes to descend from the throne and they have had leisure to repent of their irretrievable step . 
But Amurath alone , in the full liberty of choice , after the trial of empire and solitude , has repeated his preference of a private life . 
admires le Philosophe Turc would he have bestowed the same praise on a Christian prince for retiring to a monastery ? In his way , Voltaire was a bigot , an intolerant bigot . 
See the articles Dervische , Fakir , Nasser , Rohbaniat , in D'Herbelot's Bibliotheque Orientale . 
Yet the subject is superficially treated from the Persian and Arabian writers . 
It is among the Turks that these orders have principally flourished . 
Gibbon has fallen into a remarkable error . 
The unmonastic retreat of Amurath was that of an epicurean rather than of a dervis more like that of Sardanapalus than of Charles the Fifth . 
Profane , not divine , love was its chief occupation the only dance , that described by Horace as belonging to the country , motus doceri gaudet Ionicos . 
See Von Hammer note , p . 
affords much information , which he drew from his personal conversation with the heads of the dervises , most of whom ascribed their origin to the time of Orchan . 
among whom Amurath retired the Seids of that author are the descendants of Mahomet . 
But the spirit of the crusades had expired and the coldness of the Franks was not less unreasonable than their headlong passion . 
The maritime republics of Venice and Genoa were less remote from the scene of action and their hostile fleets were associated under the standard of St . 
The kingdoms of Hungary and Poland , which covered as it were the interior pale of the Latin church , were the most nearly concerned to oppose the progress of the Turks . 
A fugitive despot of Servia exaggerated the distress and ardor of the Christians beyond the Danube , who would unanimously rise to vindicate their religion and liberty . 
The Greek emperor , with a spirit unknown to his fathers , engaged to guard the Bosphorus , and to sally from Constantinople at the head of his national and mercenary troops . 
furnished horse , foot , all in green , with wagons . 
At present , six or seven hundred thousand men are maintained in constant pay and admirable discipline by the powers of Germany . 
It was not till the year , that France and England could agree on a truce of some months . 
has been my leading guide . 
He has diligently read , and critically compared , the Greek and Turkish materials , the historians of Hungary , Poland , and the West . 
His narrative is perspicuous and where he can be free from a religious bias , the judgment of Spondanus is not contemptible . 
which most writers affix to his name , either in compliance with the Polish pronunciation , or to distinguish him from his rival the infant Ladislaus of Austria . 
Bonfinius , Spondanus , and Lenfant . 
ascribes to his policy the original plan , and transcribes his animating epistle to the king of Hungary . 
But the Mahometan powers are seldom it formed of the state of Christendom and the situation and correspondence of the knights of Rhodes must connect them with the sultan of Caramania . 
In this expedition they obtained two signal victories , which were justly ascribed to the valor and conduct of Huniades . 
The retreat was undisturbed and the entrance into Buda was at once a military and religious triumph . 
In their letters to the emperor Frederic III . 
is still more pure and authentic . 
During the whole transaction , the cardinal legate had observed a sullen silence , unwilling to approve , and unable to oppose , the consent of the king and people . 
His vicar on earth is the Roman pontiff without whose sanction you can neither promise nor perform . 
But the same treaty which should have bound his conscience had diminished his strength . 
and other historians , who might indulge their own eloquence , while they represent one of the orators of the age . 
But they all agree in the advice and arguments for perjury , which in the field of controversy are fiercely attacked by the Protestants , and feebly defended by the Catholics . 
Chapter LXVII Schism Of The Greeks And Latins . 
The king alone was resolved to conquer or die and his resolution had almost been crowned with a glorious and salutary victory . 
With inferior numbers and disordered ranks , the king of Hungary rushed forward in the confidence of victory , till his career was stopped by the impenetrable phalanx of the Janizaries . 
Some Christian writers affirm , that he drew from his bosom the host or wafer on which the treaty had not been sworn . 
more simply and probably affirms , supervenitibus Janizaris , telorum multitudine , non jam confossus est , quam obrutus . 
Compare Von Hammer , p . 
represents the theatre of the war in the xvth century . 
Before I lose sight of the field of Warna , I am tempted to pause on the character and story of two principal actors , the cardinal Julian and John Huniades . 
No sooner had he been invested with the Roman purple , than he was sent into Germany to arm the empire against the rebels and heretics of Bohemia . 
After promoting the strongest measures against the authority and person of Eugenius , some secret motive of interest or conscience engaged him to desert on a sudden the popular party . 
In his Hungarian embassy , we have already seen the mischievous effects of his sophistry and eloquence , of which Julian himself was the first victim . 
The cardinal , who performed the duties of a priest and a soldier , was lost in the defeat of Warna . 
The circumstances of his death are variously related but it is believed , that a weighty encumbrance of gold impeded his flight , and tempted the cruel avarice of some Christian fugitives . 
His services at Basil and Ferrara , and his unfortunate end , are occasionally related by Spondanus , and the continuator of Fleury Syropulus honorably praises the talent of an enemy , . 
From an humble , or at least a doubtful origin , the merit of John Huniades promoted him to the command of the Hungarian armies . 
By his influence , Ladislaus of Poland obtained the crown of Hungary and the important service was rewarded by the title and office of Waivod of Transylvania . 
The first of Julian's crusades added two Turkish laurels on his brow and in the public distress the fatal errors of Warna were forgotten . 
But the last and most glorious action of his life was the defence of Belgrade against the powers of Mahomet the Second in person . 
On the first vacancy of the throne , Matthias Corvinus , a youth of eighteen years of age , was elected and crowned by the grateful Hungarians . 
The Greek Chalcondyles , and the Turkish annals of Leunclavius , presume to accuse his fidelity or valor . 
Italian fame was the object of his vanity . 
of Peter Ranzanus , a Sicilian . 
and we have a particular narrative of his wedding and coronation . 
These three tracts are all contained in the first vol . 
of Bel's Scriptores Rerum Hungaricarum . 
John Castriot , the father of Scanderbeg , was the hereditary prince of a small district of Epirus or Albania , between the mountains and the Adriatic Sea . 
The three elder brothers were confounded in the crowd of slaves and the poison to which their deaths are ascribed cannot be verified or disproved by any positive evidence . 
or the lord Alexander , is an indelible memorial of his glory and servitude . 
With some bold companions , to whom he had revealed his design he escaped in the night , by rapid marches , from the field or battle to his paternal mountains . 
In the assembly of the states of Epirus , Scanderbeg was elected general of the Turkish war and each of the allies engaged to furnish his respective proportion of men and money . 
His sepulchre was soon violated by the Turkish conquerors but the Janizaries , who wore his bones enchased in a bracelet , declared by this superstitious amulet their involuntary reverence for his valor . 
His infant son was saved from the national shipwreck the Castriots were invested with a Neapolitan dukedom , and their blood continues to flow in the noblest families of the realm . 
A colony of Albanian fugitives obtained a settlement in Calabria , and they preserve at this day the language and manners of their ancestors . 
I could wish for some simple authentic memoirs of a friend of Scanderbeg , which would introduce me to the man , the time , and the place . 
his gaudy and cumbersoms robes are stuck with many false jewels . 
See likewise Chalcondyles , l vii . 
His circumcision , education , c . 
that event must have happened in , nine years before the accession of Amurath II . 
, who must have inherited , not acquired the Albanian slave . 
Spondanus has remarked this inconsistency , A. D. , No. , , No. . 
We want a good map of Epirus . 
with the pompous and prolix declamation in the ivth , vth , and vith books of the Albanian priest , who has been copied by the tribe of strangers and moderns . 
kills the sultan by disease indeed , under the walls of Croya . 
But this audacious fiction is disproved by the Greeks and Turks , who agree in the time and manner of Amurath's death at Adrianople . 
An ambassador , the historian Phranza , was immediately despatched to the court of Adrianople . 
Amurath received him with honor and dismissed him with gifts but the gracious approbation of the Turkish sultan announced his supremacy , and the approaching downfall of the Eastern empire . 
By the hands of two illustrious deputies , the Imperial crown was placed at Sparta on the head of Constantine . 
His next occupation was the choice of a consort . 
Constantine afterwards hesitated between the royal families of Trebizond and Georgia and the embassy of Phranza represents in his public and private life the last days of the Byzantine empire . 
assigns seven or eight years to the reign of the last Constantine which he deduces from a spurious epistle of Eugenius IV . 
to the king of Aethiopia . 
The protovestiare , or great chamberlain , Phranza sailed from Constantinople as the minister of a bridegroom and the relics of wealth and luxury were applied to his pompous appearance . 
His numerous retinue consisted of nobles and guards , of physicians and monks he was attended by a band of music and the term of his costly embassy was protracted above two years . 
From this hospitable land , Phranza proceeded to the court of Trebizond , where he was informed by the Greek prince of the recent decease of Amurath . 
Instead of rejoicing in the deliverance , the experienced statesman expressed his apprehension , that an ambitious youth would not long adhere to the sage and pacific system of his father . 
Reduced to the first alternative , the choice of Phranza was decided in favor of a Georgian princess and the vanity of her father was dazzled by the glorious alliance . 
The marriage was immediately stipulated but the office , however incompatible with his own , had been usurped by the ambition of the admiral . 
Such were the private and public designs , which were interrupted by a Turkish war , and finally buried in the ruins of the empire . 
he might follow his Tartar master into Hindostan in , and from thence sail to the spice islands . 
The happy and pious Indians lived a hundred and fifty years , and enjoyed the most perfect productions of the vegetable and mineral kingdoms . 
nine inches long , sheep like elephants , elephants like sheep . 
He sailed in a country vessel from the spice islands to one of the ports of the exterior India invenitque navem grandem Ibericam qua in Portugalliam est delatus . 
twenty years before the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope , is spurious or wonderful . 
But this new geography is sullied by the old and incompatible error which places the source of the Nile in India . 
who styles her the daughter of Lazarus Ogli , and the Helen of the Servians , places her marriage with Amurath in the year . 
It will not easily be believed , that in six and twenty years' cohabitation , the sultan corpus ejus non tetigit . 
After the taking of Constantinople , she fled to Mahomet II . 
and the general practice of antiquity . 
Chapter LXVIII Reign Of Mahomet The Second , Extinction Of Eastern Empire Part I. Reign And Character Of Mahomet The Second . 
Siege , Assault , And Final Conquest , Of Constantinople By The Turks . 
Extinction Of The Roman Empire In The East . 
Conquests And Death Of Mahomet The Second . 
The siege of Constantinople by the Turks attracts our first attention to the person and character of the great destroyer . 
His first education and sentiments were those of a devout Mussulman and as often as he conversed with an infidel , he purified his hands and face by the legal rites of ablution . 
to brand the prophet of Mecca as a robber and impostor . 
The Persian might indeed contribute to his amusement , and the Arabic to his edification and such studies are familiar to the Oriental youth . 
But the influence of religion and learning were employed without effect on his savage and licentious nature . 
His sobriety is attested by the silence of the Turkish annals , which accuse three , and three only , of the Ottoman line of the vice of drunkenness . 
For the character of Mahomet II . 
it is dangerous to trust either the Turks or the Christians . 
and the mosques which he founded , attest his public regard for religion . 
Quinque linguas praeter suam noverat , Graecam , Latinam , Chaldaicam , Persicam . 
The Latin translator of Phranza has dropped the Arabic , which the Koran must recommend to every Mussulman . 
Note It appears in the original Greek text , p . 
M. Philelphus , by a Latin ode , requested and obtained the liberty of his wife's mother and sisters from the conqueror of Constantinople . 
It was delivered into the sultan's hands by the envoys of the duke of Milan . 
Robert Valturio published at Verona , in , his xii . 
books de Re Militari , in which he first mentions the use of bombs . 
By his patron Sigismund Malatesta , prince of Rimini , it had been addressed with a Latin epistle to Mahomet II . 
According to Phranza , he assiduously studied the lives and actions of Alexander , Augustus , Constantine , and Theodosius . 
I have read somewhere , that Plutarch's Lives were translated by his orders into the Turkish language . 
If the sultan himself understood Greek , it must have been for the benefit of his subjects . 
Yet these lives are a school of freedom as well as of valor . 
Note Von Hammer disdainfully rejects this fable of Mahomet's knowledge of languages . 
Knolles adds , that he delighted in reading the history of Alexander the Great , and of Julius Caesar . 
The founder of the Imperial dynasty of Rome , according to M. Von Hammer , is altogether unknown in the East . 
Mahomet was a great patron of Turkish literature the romantic poems of Persia were translated , or imitated , under his patronage . 
M. The famous Gentile Bellino , whom he had invited from Venice , was dismissed with a chain and collar of gold , and a purse of ducats . 
With Voltaire I laugh at the foolish story of a slave purposely beheaded to instruct the painter in the action of the muscles . 
This story , the subject of Johnson's Irene , is rejected by M. Von Hammer , vol . 
The German historian's general estimate of Mahomet's character agrees in its more marked features with Gibbon's . 
M. These Imperial drunkards were Soliman I. , Selim II . 
The sophis of Persia can produce a more regular succession and in the last age , our European travellers were the witnesses and companions of their revels . 
Before the end of six weeks , he was recalled by a sudden message from the divan , which announced the decease of Amurath , and the mutinous spirit of the Janizaries . 
The ambassadors of Europe and Asia soon appeared to congratulate his accession and solicit his friendship and to all he spoke the language of moderation and peace . 
Calapin , one of these royal infants , was saved from his cruel brother , and baptized at Rome under the name of Callistus Othomannus . 
Ahmed , the son of a Greek princess , was the object of his especial jealousy . 
M. ! The Janizaries obtained , for the first time , a gift on the accession of a new sovereign , p . 
M. See the accession of Mahomet II . 
The justice and magnanimity of Amurath had scorned this immoral privilege but his son , though the proudest of men , could stoop from ambition to the basest arts of dissimulation and deceit . 
Persuasion is the resource of the feeble and the feeble can seldom persuade the ambassadors of the emperor attempted , without success , to divert Mahomet from the execution of his design . 
I form the enterprise , replied the perfidious sultan , against the city but the empire of Constantinople is measured by her walls . 
I was then a child at Adrianople the Moslems trembled and , for a while , the Gabours insulted our disgrace . 
But when my father had triumphed in the field of Warna , he vowed to erect a fort on the western shore , and that vow it is my duty to accomplish . 
Return , and inform your king , that the present Ottoman is far different from his predecessors that his resolutions surpass their wishes and that he performs more than they could resolve . 
Return in safety but the next who delivers a similar message may expect to be flayed alive . 
I must therefore depend on the Greeks , whose prejudices , in some degree , are subdued by their distress . 
The hearsay relations of Monstrelet and the distant Latins I shall take leave to disregard . 
but I must regret the map or plan which Tournefort sent to the French minister of the marine . 
The reader may turn back to chap . 
The opprobrious name which the Turks bestow on the infidels , is expressed by Ducas , and Giaour by Leunclavius and the moderns . 
, in vulgar Greek , a tortoise , as denoting a retrograde motion from the faith . 
Phranza does justice to his master's sense and courage . 
Calliditatem hominis non ignorans Imperator prior arma movere constituit , and stigmatizes the folly of the cum sacri tum profani proceres , which he had heard , amentes spe vana pasci . 
Ducas was not a privy counsellor . 
Of a master who never forgives , the orders are seldom disobeyed . 
The lime had been burnt in Cataphrygia the timber was cut down in the woods of Heraclea and Nicomedia and the stones were dug from the Anatolian quarries . 
Each of the thousand masons was assisted by two workmen and a measure of two cubits was marked for their daily task . 
Such occasions must soon and inevitably be found . 
Mahomet listened with joy to the complaint and a detachment was commanded to exterminate the guilty village the guilty had fled but forty innocent and unsuspecting reapers were massacred by the soldiers . 
Since neither oaths , nor treaty , nor submission , can secure peace , pursue , said he to Mahomet , your impious warfare . 
But until the Judge of the earth shall pronounce between us , it is my duty to live and die in the defence of my people . 
A Venetian vessel , refusing obedience to the new lords of the Bosphorus , was sunk with a single bullet . 
The siege of Constantinople was deferred till the ensuing spring but an Ottoman army marched into the Morea to divert the force of the brothers of Constantine . 
revived the foolish tale of the ox's hide , and Dido's stratagem in the foundation of Carthage . 
are far less valuable than the Greek historians . 
In the dimensions of this fortress , the old castle of Europe , Phranza does not exactly agree with Chalcondyles , whose description has been verified on the spot by his editor Leunclavius . 
Among these were some pages of Mahomet , so conscious of his inexorable rigor , that they begged to lose their heads in the city unless they could return before sunset . 
This was from a model cannon cast by Urban the Hungarian . 
who had sailed in his vessel , commemorates the Venetian pilot as a martyr . 
Auctum est Palaeologorum genus , et Imperii successor , parvaeque Romanorum scintillae haeres natus , Andreas , c . 
The strong expression was inspired by his feelings . 
but his serious thoughts were irrevocably bent on the conquest of the city of Caesar . 
At the dead of night , about the second watch , he started from his bed , and commanded the instant attendance of his prime vizier . 
It is not my wish , said Mahomet , to resume my gifts , but rather to heap and multiply them on thy head . 
In my turn , I ask a present far more valuable and important Constantinople . 
His providence , and thy power , assure thy success and myself , with the rest of thy faithful slaves , will sacrifice our lives and fortunes . 
The sultan was either doubtful of his conquest , or ignorant of the superior merits of Constantinople . 
A city or a kingdom may sometimes be ruined by the Imperial fortune of their sovereign . 
The Oriental custom of never appearing without gifts before a sovereign or a superior is of high antiquity , and seems analogous with the idea of sacrifice , still more ancient and universal . 
See the examples of such Persian gifts , Aelian , Hist . 
Chapter LXVIII Reign Of Mahomet The Second , Extinction Of Eastern Empire Part II . 
Among the implements of destruction , he studied with peculiar care the recent and tremendous discovery of the Latins and his artillery surpassed whatever had yet appeared in the world . 
A founder of cannon , a Dane or Hungarian , who had been almost starved in the Greek service , deserted to the Moslems , and was liberally entertained by the Turkish sultan . 
Mahomet was satisfied with the answer to his first question , which he eagerly pressed on the artist . 
A lively philosopher derides on this occasion the credulity of the Greeks , and observes , with much reason , that we should always distrust the exaggerations of a vanquished people . 
Gibbon has written Dane by mistake for Dace , or Dacian . 
Chalcondyles , Von Hammer , p . 
Leonardus Chiensis measured the ball or stone of the second cannon Lapidem , qui palmis undecim ex meis ambibat in gyro . 
, according to Leonardus Chiensis . 
He was ambitious of universal monarchy and the poet frequently aspires to the name and style of an astronomer , a chemist , c . 
who fortified the Dardanelles against the Russians , describes in a lively , and even comic , strain his own prowess , and the consternation of the Turks . 
But that adventurous traveller does not possess the art of gaining our confidence . 
While Mahomet threatened the capital of the East , the Greek emperor implored with fervent prayers the assistance of earth and heaven . 
Instead of employing in their favor the arms and treasures of Italy , Nicholas the Fifth had foretold their approaching ruin and his honor was engaged in the accomplishment of his prophecy . 
The indigent and solitary prince prepared , however , to sustain his formidable adversary but if his courage were equal to the peril , his strength was inadequate to the contest . 
Romanus the Imperial standard and on the sixth day of April formed the memorable siege of Constantinople . 
See the curious Christian and Mahometan predictions of the fall of Constantinople , Von Hammer , p . 
Johnson , in the tragedy of Irene , has happily seized this characteristic circumstance The groaning Greeks dig up the golden caverns . 
The accumulated wealth of hoarding ages That wealth which , granted to their weeping prince , Had ranged embattled nations at their gates . 
Such indeed might be the regular establishment of the Capiculi , the troops of the Porte who marched with the prince , and were paid from his royal treasury . 
Between Constantine and his faithful minister this comfortless secret was preserved and a sufficient proportion of shields , cross bows , and muskets , were distributed from the arsenal to the city bands . 
Against the powers of the Ottoman empire , a city of the extent of thirteen , perhaps of sixteen , miles was defended by a scanty garrison of seven or eight thousand soldiers . 
Europe and Asia were open to the besiegers but the strength and provisions of the Greeks must sustain a daily decrease nor could they indulge the expectation of any foreign succor or supply . 
Marsigli proves , that the effective armies of the Turks are much less numerous than they appear . 
In the army that besieged Constantinople Leonardus Chiensis reckons no more than , Janizaries . 
With some indulgence for national prejudices , we cannot desire a more authentic witness , not only of public facts , but of private counsels . 
The primitive Romans would have drawn their swords in the resolution of death or conquest . 
The primitive Christians might have embraced each other , and awaited in patience and charity the stroke of martyrdom . 
But the Greeks of Constantinople were animated only by the spirit of religion , and that spirit was productive only of animosity and discord . 
On the twelfth of December , the two nations , in the church of St . 
In Spondanus , the narrative of the union is not only partial , but imperfect . 
with such truth and spirit , was not printed till the year . 
A national historian acknowledges with a blush , that none of his countrymen , not the emperor himself , were sincere in this occasional conformity . 
Their hasty and unconditional submission was palliated by a promise of future revisal but the best , or the worst , of their excuses was the confession of their own perjury . 
You shall then perceive whether we are truly reconciled with the Azymites . 
But patience is not the attribute of zeal nor can the arts of a court be adapted to the freedom and violence of popular enthusiasm . 
From the dome of St . 
Sophia the inhabitants of either sex , and of every degree , rushed in crowds to the cell of the monk Gennadius , to consult the oracle of the church . 
Have mercy on me , O Lord ! I protest in thy presence that I am innocent of the crime . 
O miserable Romans , consider , pause , and repent . 
At the same moment that you renounce the religion of your fathers , by embracing impiety , you submit to a foreign servitude . 
No sooner had the church of St . 
Phranza , one of the conforming Greeks , acknowledges that the measure was adopted only propter spem auxilii he affirms with pleasure , that those who refused to perform their devotions in St . 
His primitive and secular name was George Scholarius , which he changed for that of Gennadius , either when he became a monk or a patriarch . 
has restored the identity of his person and the duplicity of his character . 
It , may be fairly translated a cardinal's hat . 
The difference of the Greek and Latin habits imbittered the schism . 
Of the triangle which composes the figure of Constantinople , the two sides along the sea were made inaccessible to an enemy the Propontis by nature , and the harbor by art . 
Between the two waters , the basis of the triangle , the land side was protected by a double wall , and a deep ditch of the depth of one hundred feet . 
Nor should this prudence be accused of pusillanimity . 
The incessant volleys of lances and arrows were accompanied with the smoke , the sound , and the fire , of their musketry and cannon . 
But the Turkish approaches were soon sunk in trenches , or covered with ruins . 
Each day added to the science of the Christians but their inadequate stock of gunpowder was wasted in the operations of each day . 
The same destructive secret had been revealed to the Moslems by whom it was employed with the superior energy of zeal , riches , and despotism . 
Yet in the power and activity of the sultan , we may discern the infancy of the new science . 
Under a master who counted the moments , the great cannon could be loaded and fired no more than seven times in one day . 
We are obliged to reduce the Greek miles to the smallest measure which is preserved in the wersts of Russia , of French toises , and of to a degree . 
At indies doctiores nostri facti paravere contra hostes machina menta , quae tamen avare dabantur . 
Pulvis erat nitri modica exigua tela modica bombardae , si aderant incommoditate loci primum hostes offendere , maceriebus alveisque tectos , non poterant . 
Nam si quae magnae erant , ne murus concuteretur noster , quiescebant . 
This passage of Leonardus Chiensis is curious and important . 
According to Chalcondyles and Phranza , the great cannon burst an incident which , according to Ducas , was prevented by the artist's skill . 
It is evident that they do not speak of the same gun . 
Note They speak , one of a Byzantine , one of a Turkish , gun . 
Von Hammer note , p . 
The founder of the gun . 
A circumstance that distinguishes the siege of Constantinople is the reunion of the ancient and modern artillery . 
By these various arts of annoyance , some as new as they were pernicious to the Greeks , the tower of St . 
Romanus was again strong and entire . 
But that agreeable historian had a turn for romance and as he wrote to please the order he had adopted the same spirit of enthusiasm and chivalry . 
was not used M. Chapter LXVIII Reign Of Mahomet The Second , Extinction Of Eastern Empire Part III . 
The reader who has present to his mind the geographical picture of Constantinople , will conceive and admire the greatness of the spectacle . 
His rank and services were annihilated by the displeasure of Mahomet . 
The introduction of this supply revived the hopes of the Greeks , and accused the supineness of their Western allies . 
Voltaire , in giving one of these ships to Frederic III . 
, confounds the emperors of the East and West . 
has drawn of the passions and gestures of the Athenians in a naval engagement in the great harbor of Syracuse . 
According to Ducas , one of the Afabi beat out his eye with a stone Compare Von Hammer . 
this golden bar was of the enormous or incredible weight of librae , or pounds . 
Bouillaud's reading of drachms , or five pounds , is sufficient to exercise the arm of Mahomet , and bruise the back of his admiral . 
Ducas , who confesses himself ill informed of the affairs of Hungary assigns a motive of superstition , a fatal belief that Constantinople would be the term of the Turkish conquests . 
It was difficult for the Greeks to penetrate the secret of the divan yet the Greeks are persuaded , that a resistance so obstinate and surprising , had fatigued the perseverance of Mahomet . 
But these selfish merchants were ambitious of the favor of being the last devoured and the deficiency of art was supplied by the strength of obedient myraids . 
A level way was covered with a broad platform of strong and solid planks and to render them more slippery and smooth , they were anointed with the fat of sheep and oxen . 
Fourscore light galleys and brigantines , of fifty and thirty oars , were disembarked on the Bosphorus shore arranged successively on rollers and drawn forwards by the power of men and pulleys . 
Two guides or pilots were stationed at the helm , and the prow , of each vessel the sails were unfurled to the winds and the labor was cheered by song and acclamation . 
After a siege of forty days , the fate of Constantinople could no longer be averted . 
Romanus , four towers had been levelled with the ground . 
from the Turkish annals but I could wish to contract the distance of ten miles , and to prolong the term of one night . 
Note Six miles , not ten . 
Note Von Hammer gives a longer list of such transportations , p . 
Dion Cassius distinctly relates the occurrence treated as fabulous by Gibbon . 
might possibly be the adviser and agent of Mahomet . 
I particularly allude to our own embarkations on the lakes of Canada in the years and , so great in the labor , so fruitless in the event . 
! They were betrayed , according to some accounts , by the Genoese of Galata . 
M. During the siege of Constantinople , the words of peace and capitulation had been sometimes pronounced and several embassies had passed between the camp and the city . 
The Greek emperor was humbled by adversity and would have yielded to any terms compatible with religion and royalty . 
In this holy warfare , the Moslems were exhorted to purify their minds with prayer , their bodies with seven ablutions and to abstain from food till the close of the ensuing day . 
Yet Mahomet principally trusted to the efficacy of temporal and visible rewards . 
Chalcondyles and Ducas differ in the time and circumstances of the negotiation and as it was neither glorious nor salutory , the faithful Phranza spares his prince even the thought of a surrender . 
are no more than an Oriental figure but in the tragedy of Irene , Mahomet's passion soars above sense and reason Should the fierce North , upon his frozen wings . 
Bear him aloft above the wondering clouds , And seat him in the Pleiads' golden chariot Then should my fury drag him down to tortures . 
Besides the extravagance of the rant , I must observe , . 
That the operation of the winds must be confined to the lower region of the air . 
The golden chariot does not exist either in science or fiction but I much fear Dr . 
Johnson has confounded the Pleiades with the great bear or wagon , the zodiac with a northern constalation . 
Phranza quarrels with these Moslem acclamations , not for the name of God , but for that of the prophet the pious zeal of Voltaire is excessive , and even ridiculous . 
The picture is heightened by the addition of the wailing cries of Kyris , which were heard from the dark interior of the city . 
M. Far different was the state of the Christians who , with loud and impotent complaints , deplored the guilt , or the punishment , of their sins . 
In this world all was comfortless and gloomy and neither the gospel nor the church have proposed any conspicuous recompense to the heroes who fall in the service of their country . 
The emperor , and some faithful companions , entered the dome of St . 
Sophia , which in a few hours was to be converted into a mosque and devoutly received , with tears and prayers , the sacrament of the holy communion . 
The distress and fall of the last Constantine are more glorious than the long prosperity of the Byzantine Caesars . 
I am afraid that this discourse was composed by Phranza himself and it smells so grossly of the sermon and the convent , that I almost doubt whether it was pronounced by Constantine . 
Leonardus assigns him another speech , in which he addresses himself more respectfully to the Latin auxiliaries . 
In that fatal moment , the Janizaries arose , fresh , vigorous , and invincible . 
Besides the , guards , and the sailors and the marines , Ducas numbers in this general assault , Turks , both horse and foot . 
The immediate loss of Constantinople may be ascribed to the bullet , or arrow , which pierced the gauntlet of John Justiniani . 
The sight of his blood , and the exquisite pain , appalled the courage of the chief , whose arms and counsels were the firmest rampart of the city . 
As he withdrew from his station in quest of a surgeon , his flight was perceived and stopped by the indefatigable emperor . 
His example was imitated by the greatest part of the Latin auxiliaries , and the defence began to slacken when the attack was pressed with redoubled vigor . 
The first who deserved the sultan's reward was Hassan the Janizary , of gigantic stature and strength . 
Hassan and his twelve companions had reached the summit the giant was precipitated from the rampart he rose on one knee , and was again oppressed by a shower of darts and stones . 
Amidst these multitudes , the emperor , who accomplished all the duties of a general and a soldier , was long seen and finally lost . 
The prudent despair of Constantine cast away the purple amidst the tumult he fell by an unknown hand , and his body was buried under a mountain of the slain . 
After his death , resistance and order were no more the Greeks fled towards the city and many were pressed and stifled in the narrow pass of the gate of St . 
Her empire only had been subverted by the Latins her religion was trampled in the dust by the Moslem conquerors . 
In the severe censure of the flight of Justiniani , Phranza expresses his own feelings and those of the public . 
For some private reasons , he is treated with more lenity and respect by Ducas but the words of Leonardus Chiensis express his strong and recent indignation , gloriae salutis suique oblitus . 
In the whole series of their Eastern policy , his countrymen , the Genoese , were always suspected , and often guilty . 
Note M. Brosset has given some extracts from the Georgian account of the siege of Constantinople , in which Justiniani's wound in the left foot is represented as more serious . 
With charitable ambiguity the chronicler adds that his soldiers carried him away with them in their vessel . 
M. Ducas kills him with two blows of Turkish soldiers Chalcondyles wounds him in the shoulder , and then tramples him in the gate . 
who has hopes of his salvation , wishes to absolve this demand from the guilt of suicide . 
Leonardus Chiensis very properly observes , that the Turks , had they known the emperor , would have labored to save and secure a captive so acceptable to the sultan . 
The Christian ships in the mouth of the harbor had flanked and retarded this naval attack . 
From every part of the capital , they flowed into the church of St . 
Take this sword , would he say , and avenge the people of the Lord . 
At these animating words , the Turks would instantly fly , and the victorious Romans would drive them from the West , and from all Anatolia as far as the frontiers of Persia . 
It is on this occasion that Ducas , with some fancy and much truth , upbraids the discord and obstinacy of the Greeks . 
who has quoted from the prophet Jeremiah a passage of similar import . 
that island must have been full of the fugitives of Constantinople , who delighted to repeat , perhaps to adorn , the tale of their misery . 
Chapter LXVIII Reign Of Mahomet The Second , Extinction Of Eastern Empire Chapter LXIX State Of Rome From The Twelfth Century . 
Part I. State Of Rome From The Twelfth Century . 
Temporal Dominion Of The Popes . 
Political Heresy Of Arnold Of Brescia . 
They Are Deprived Of The Election And Presence Of The Popes , Who Retire To Avignon . 
Feud Of The Colonna And Ursini . 
Rome had been already stripped of her trophies , her gods , and her Caesars nor was the Gothic dominion more inglorious and oppressive than the tyranny of the Greeks . 
The darkness of the middle ages exhibits some scenes not unworthy of our notice . 
The abbe Dubos , who , with less genius than his successor Montesquieu , has asserted and magnified the influence of climate , objects to himself the degeneracy of the Romans and Batavians . 
To the first of these examples he replies , . 
That the change is less real than apparent , and that the modern Romans prudently conceal in themselves the virtues of their ancestors . 
Note This question is discussed at considerable length in Dr . 
Arnold's History of Rome , ch . 
See likewise Bunsen's Dissertation on the Aria Cattiva Roms Beschreibung , pp . 
In the church of St . 
But every Roman prejudice was awakened by the name , the language , and the manners , of a Barbarian lord . 
Once , and once only , in his life , each emperor , with an army of Teutonic vassals , descended from the Alps . 
The progress of independence in Germany and Italy undermined the foundations of the Imperial sovereignty , and the triumph of the popes was the deliverance of Rome . 
The reader has been so long absent from Rome , that I would advise him to recollect or review the xlixth chapter of this History . 
Exercitui Romano et Teutonico ! The latter was both seen and felt but the former was no more than magni nominis umbra . 
He finds only two more early than the year fifty are still extant from Leo III . 
, with the addition of the reigning emperor none remain of Gregory VII . 
but in those of Paschal II . 
he seems to have renounced this badge of dependence . 
The removal of a foreign influence restored and endeared the shepherd to his flock . 
The applause of the magistrates and people confirmed his election , and the ecclesiastical power that was obeyed in Sweden and Britain had been ultimately derived from the suffrage of the Romans . 
The same suffrage gave a prince , as well as a pontiff , to the capital . 
The sanctity of the office might indeed be degraded by the personal vices of the man . 
They sometimes wandered in poverty and exile , the victims of persecution and the apostolic zeal with which they offered themselves to martyrdom must engage the favor and sympathy of every Catholic breast . 
The wealth and piety of these strangers were ostentatiously displayed and their expenses , sacred or profane , circulated in various channels for the emolument of the Romans . 
summarii non levatis sarcinis onusti nihilominus repatriant inviti . 
The first words of the passage are obscure , and probably corrupt . 
Such powerful motives should have firmly attached the voluntary and pious obedience of the Roman people to their spiritual and temporal father . 
But the operation of prejudice and interest is often disturbed by the sallies of ungovernable passion . 
And it was thus , that the shrine of St . 
Even the influence of superstition is fluctuating and precarious and the slave , whose reason is subdued , will often be delivered by his avarice or pride . 
I have already observed , that the modern times of religious indifference are the most favorable to the peace and security of the clergy . 
Under the reign of superstition , they had much to hope from the ignorance , and much to fear from the violence , of mankind . 
Quand les sauvages de la Louisiane veulent avoir du fruit , ils coupent l'arbre au pied et cueillent le fruit . 
and passion and ignorance are always despotic . 
In a free conversation with his countryman Adrian IV . 
, John of Salisbury accuses the avarice of the pope and clergy Provinciarum diripiunt spolia , ac si thesauros Croesi studeant reparare . 
In the next page , he blames the rashness and infidelity of the Romans , whom their bishops vainly strove to conciliate by gifts , instead of virtues . 
It is pity that this miscellaneous writer has not given us less morality and erudition , and more pictures of himself and the times . 
Hume's History of England , vol . 
The same writer has given us , from Fitz Stephen , a singular act of cruelty perpetrated on the clergy by Geoffrey , the father of Henry II . 
Of the pain and danger they might justly complain yet since they had vowed chastity he deprived them of a superfluous treasure . 
Since the primitive times , the wealth of the popes was exposed to envy , their powers to opposition , and their persons to violence . 
But the long hostility of the mitre and the crown increased the numbers , and inflamed the passions , of their enemies . 
Peter and the German eagle . 
Gregory the Seventh , who may be adored or detested as the founder of the papal monarchy , was driven from Rome , and died in exile at Salerno . 
On Holy Thursday , while Paschal officiated before the altar , he was interrupted by the clamors of the multitude , who imperiously demanded the confirmation of a favorite magistrate . 
Angelo , and before the Capitol , with volleys of stones and darts . 
The houses of his adherents were levelled with the ground Paschal escaped with difficulty and danger he levied an army in the patrimony of St . 
Peter and his last days were embittered by suffering and inflicting the calamities of civil war . 
The scenes that followed the election of his successor Gelasius the Second were still more scandalous to the church and city . 
Gelasius was dragged by the hair along the ground , buffeted with blows , wounded with spurs , and bound with an iron chain in the house of his brutal tyrant . 
Not many days had elapsed , when the pope was again assaulted at the altar . 
While his friends and enemies were engaged in a bloody contest , he escaped in his sacerdotal garments . 
In this unworthy flight , which excited the compassion of the Roman matrons , his attendants were scattered or unhorsed and , in the fields behind the church of St . 
Peter , his successor was found alone and half dead with fear and fatigue . 
These examples might suffice but I cannot forget the sufferings of two pontiffs of the same age , the second and third of the name of Lucius . 
The former , as he ascended in battle array to assault the Capitol , was struck on the temple by a stone , and expired in a few days . 
The latter was severely wounded in the person of his servants . 
But the root of mischief was deep and perennial and a momentary calm was preceded and followed by such tempests as had almost sunk the bark of St . 
Among the nations who revered the apostolic throne , the tumults of Rome provoked a general indignation and in a letter to his disciple Eugenius the Third , St . 
Bernard , with the sharpness of his wit and zeal , has stigmatized the vices of the rebellious people . 
Dexterous in mischief , they have never learned the science of doing good . 
Lofty in promise , poor in execution adulation and calumny , perfidy and treason , are the familiar arts of their policy . 
Surely this dark portrait is not colored by the pencil of Christian charity yet the features , however harsh or ugly , express a lively resemblance of the Roman of the twelfth century . 
an authentic and contemporary series of the lives of the popes by the cardinal of Arragon , Pandulphus Pisanus , Bernard Guido , c . 
and has been always before my eyes . 
The dates of years int he in the contents may throughout his this chapter be understood as tacit references to the Annals of Muratori , my ordinary and excellent guide . 
He uses , and indeed quotes , with the freedom of a master , his great collection of the Italian Historians , in xxviii . 
volumes and as that treasure is in my library , I have thought it an amusement , if not a duty , to consult the originals . 
The saint takes breath , and then begins again Hi , invisi terrae et coelo , utrique injecere manus , c . 
Baronius , in his index to the xiith volume of his Annals , has found a fair and easy excuse . 
He makes two heads , of Romani Catholici and Schismatici to the former he applies all the good , to the latter all the evil , that is told of the city . 
During a short time , the preacher was revered as a patriot and the discontent , or revolt , of Brescia against her bishop , was the first fruits of his dangerous lessons . 
Their tardy zeal was quickened by the fierce exhortations of St . 
Bernard and the enemy of the church was driven by persecution to the desperate measures of erecting his standard in Rome itself , in the face of the successor of St . 
who entertains a favorable opinion of Arnold of Brescia . 
In the vth volume I have described the sect of the Paulicians , and followed their migration from Armenia to Thrace and Bulgaria , Italy and France . 
Note Compare Franke , Arnold von Brescia und seine Zeit . 
Zarich , M. The wicked wit of Bayle was amused in composing , with much levity and learning , the articles of Abelard , Foulkes , Heloise , in his Dictionnaire Critique . 
The dispute of Abelard and St . 
Damnatus ab illo Praesule , qui numeros vetitum contingere nostros Nomen ad innocua ducit laudabile vita . 
We may applaud the dexterity and correctness of Ligurinus , who turns the unpoetical name of Innocent II . 
but it is without sufficient warrant , that the city and canton have usurped , and even monopolized , the names of Tigurum and Pagus Tigurinus . 
of the emperor Lewis the Pious to his daughter the abbess Hildegardis . 
Curtim nostram Turegum in ducatu Alamanniae in pago Durgaugensi , with villages , woods , meadows , waters , slaves , churches , c . 
Amidst his invectives he drops a precious acknowledgment , qui , utinam quam sanae esset doctrinae quam districtae est vitae . 
He owns that Arnold would be a valuable acquisition for the church . 
In the space of an hour , the male captives were bound with cords , the females with their veils and girdles . 
Among these we may notice some remarkable characters . 
The historian Phranza , first chamberlain and principal secretary , was involved with his family in the common lot . 
The chain and entrance of the outward harbor was still occupied by the Italian ships of merchandise and war . 
They had signalized their valor in the siege they embraced the moment of retreat , while the Turkish mariners were dissipated in the pillage of the city . 
His expressions are positive Ameras sua manu jugulavit . 
volebat enim eo turpiter et nefarie abuti . 
Me miserum et infelicem ! Yet he could only learn from report the bloody or impure scenes that were acted in the dark recesses of the seraglio . 
I should be curious to learn how he could praise the public enemy , whom he so often reviles as the most corrupt and inhuman of tyrants . 
The commentaries of Pius II . 
in his own letters , lest he should lose the merit and reward of suffering for Christ . 
Note He was sold as a slave in Galata , according to Von Hammer , p . 
See the somewhat vague and declamatory letter of Cardinal Isidore , in the appendix to Clarke's Travels , vol . 
the lives of the vanquished were forfeited and the legitimate reward of the conqueror was derived from the service , the sale , or the ransom , of his captives of both sexes . 
The wealth of Constantinople had been granted by the sultan to his victorious troops and the rapine of an hour is more productive than the industry of years . 
The profanation and plunder of the monasteries and churches excited the most tragic complaints . 
but in the distribution to Venice , Genoa , Florence , and Ancona , of , , and , ducats , I suspect that a figure has been dropped . 
Even with the restitution , the foreign property would scarcely exceed one fourth . 
was robust as Hercules , dexterous as Apollo , and equal in battle to any ten of the race of ordinary mortals . 
The conqueror gazed with satisfaction and wonder on the strange , though splendid , appearance of the domes and palaces , so dissimilar from the style of Oriental architecture . 
At the principal door of St . 
Sophia he proceeded to the august , but desolate mansion of a hundred successors of the great Constantine , but which in a few hours had been stripped of the pomp of royalty . 
The Julian Calendar , which reckons the days and hours from midnight , was used at Constantinople . 
But Ducas seems to understand the natural hours from sunrise . 
See the Turkish Annals , p . 
, and the Pandects of Leunclarius , p . 
to mention this curious relic of Grecian antiquity . 
Von Hammer passes over this circumstance , which is treated by Dr . 
as a fiction of Thevenot . 
Chishull states that the monument was broken by some attendants of the Polish ambassador . 
for the Turkish account of the conversion of St . 
Sophia , so bitterly deplored by Phranza and Ducas . 
It is amusing enough to observe , in what opposite lights the same object appears to a Mussulman and a Christian eye . 
This distich , which Cantemir gives in the original , derives new beauties from the application . 
It was thus that Scipio repeated , in the sack of Carthage , the famous prophecy of Homer . 
The same generous feeling carried the mind of the conqueror to the past or the future . 
After his decease , Lucas Notaras , great duke , and first minister of the empire , was the most important prisoner . 
Mahomet condescended to visit his wife , a venerable princess oppressed with sickness and grief and his consolation for her misfortunes was in the most tender strain of humanity and filial reverence . 
But the scene was soon changed and before his departure , the hippodrome streamed with the blood of his noblest captives . 
that Mahomet sent round Persia , Arabia , c . 
, the head of the Greek emperor he would surely content himself with a trophy less inhuman . 
Phranza was the personal enemy of the great duke nor could time , or death , or his own retreat to a monastery , extort a feeling of sympathy or forgiveness . 
Ducas is inclined to praise and pity the martyr Chalcondyles is neuter , but we are indebted to him for the hint of the Greek conspiracy . 
Von Hammer relates this undoubtingly , apparently on good authority , p . 
M. Constantinople had been left naked and desolate , without a prince or a people . 
appears to reign over Europe and Asia but his person on the shores of the Bosphorus may not always be secure from the insults of a hostile navy . 
In the new character of a mosque , the cathedral of St . 
Sophia was endowed with an ample revenue , crowned with lofty minarets , and surrounded with groves and fountains , for the devotion and refreshment of the Moslems . 
In the election and investiture of a patriarch , the ceremonial of the Byzantine court was revived and imitated . 
with Thevenot , Tournefort , and the rest of our modern travellers . 
From a gigantic picture of the greatness , population , c . 
we may learn , that in the year the Moslems were less numerous in the capital than the Christians , or even the Jews . 
relates the ceremony , which has possibly been adorned in the Greek reports to each other , and to the Latins . 
But the most patient reader will not believe that Mahomet adopted the Catholic form , Sancta Trinitas quae mihi donavit imperium te in patriarcham novae Romae deligit . 
From the Turco Graecia of Crusius , c . 
describes the slavery and domestic quarrels of the Greek church . 
The patriarch who succeeded Gennadius threw himself in despair into a well . 
The same argument may be turned in favor of the Greeks of the times , who would not have forgotten this honorable and salutary treaty . 
Voltaire , as usual , prefers the Turks to the Christians . 
Hopeless of defence , they prepared , with the noble Greeks who adhered to their fortune , to seek a refuge in Italy , beyond the reach of the Ottoman thunder . 
But this respite was a period of grief , discord , and misery . 
They ravaged each other's patrimony with fire and sword the alms and succors of the West were consumed in civil hostility and their power was only exerted in savage and arbitrary executions . 
It is not easy to pronounce whether the servitude of Demetrius , or the exile of his brother Thomas , be the most inglorious . 
Andrew , entitled him to the hospitality of the Vatican and his misery was prolonged by a pension of six thousand ducats from the pope and cardinals . 
A title was his sole inheritance and that inheritance he successively sold to the kings of France and Arragon . 
The Palaeologi of Montferrat were not extinct till the next century but they had forgotten their Greek origin and kindred . 
is too brief , and Chalcondyles too diffuse and digressive . 
The negotiations were interrupted by his sudden death , A. D. . 
the emperor of Trebizond humbly entreated the sultan to have the goodness to marry one of his daughters . 
ascribes to the modern city , inhabitants . 
This account seems enormous yet it is by trading with people that we become acquainted with their wealth and numbers . 
a very interesting letter from George Amiroutzes , protovestia rius of Trebizond , to Bessarion , describing the surrender of Trebizond , and the fate of its chief inhabitants . 
M. ! ! See in Von Hammer , vol . 
relates the arrival and reception of of the despot Thomas at Rome , . 
By an act dated A. D. , Sept . 
has bestowed a dissertation on his national title , of which he had obtained a copy from Rome . 
who reckons with pleasure the number of Greeks who were prepared to rise , miles of an easy navigation , eighteen days' journey from Valona to Constantinople , c . 
On this occasion the Turkish empire was saved by the policy of Venice . 
It is a body , says he , without a head a republic without laws or magistrates . 
Yet the same Aeneas , when he was raised to the papal throne , under the name of Pius the Second , devoted his life to the prosecution of the Turkish war . 
with the abstract and observations of M. de Ste . 
The peacock and the pheasant were distinguished as royal birds . 
It was found by an actual enumeration , that Sweden , Gothland , and Finland , contained , , fighting men , and consequently were far more populous than at present . 
In the year , Spondanus has given , from Aeneas Sylvius , a view of the state of Europe , enriched with his own observations . 
That valuable annalist , and the Italian Muratori , will continue the series of events from the year to , the end of Mahomet's life , and of this chapter . 
for the Turkish invasion of the kingdom of Naples . 
For the reign and conquests of Mahomet II . 
In peace and war , the Turks have ever engaged the attention of the republic of Venice . 
All her despatches and archives were open to a procurator of St . 
Mark , and Sagredo is not contemptible either in sense or style . 
Yet he too bitterly hates the infidels he is ignorant of their language and manners and his narrative , which allows only pages to Mahomet II . 
becomes more copious and authentic as he approaches the years and , the term of the historic labors of John Sagredo . 
The Greeks presses of Aldus and the Italians were confined to the classics of a better age and the first rude editions of Procopius , Agathias , Cedrenus , Zonaras , c . 
, were published by the learned diligence of the Germans . 
though cheaper and more copious , is not less inferior in correctness than in magnificence to that of Paris . 
The merits of the French editors are various but the value of Anna Comnena , Cinnamus , Villehardouin , c . 
, is enhanced by the historical notes of Charles de Fresne du Cange . 
His supplemental works , the Greek Glossary , the Constantinopolis Christiana , the Familiae Byzantinae , diffuse a steady light over the darkness of the Lower Empire . 
which could not be comprised in the former collections but the names of such editors as Bekker , the Dindorfs , c . 
, raised hopes of something more than the mere republication of the text , and the notes of former editors . 
Little , I regret to say , has been added of annotation , and in some cases , the old incorrect versions have been retained . 
M. Chapter LXIX State Of Rome From The Twelfth Century . 
Blending in the same discourse the texts of Livy and St . 
They were succeeded by a more vigorous and fortunate pontiff . 
Adrian the Fourth , the only Englishman who has ascended the throne of St . 
Peter and whose merit emerged from the mean condition of a monk , and almost a beggar , in the monastery of St . 
The clergy triumphed in his death with his ashes , his sect was dispersed his memory still lived in the minds of the Romans . 
From his school they had probably derived a new article of faith , that the metropolis of the Catholic church is exempt from the penalties of excommunication and interdict . 
Their bishops might argue , that the supreme jurisdiction , which they exercised over kings and nations , more especially embraced the city and diocese of the prince of the apostles . 
But they preached to the winds , and the same principle that weakened the effect , must temper the abuse , of the thunders of the Vatican . 
He advised the Romans , Consiliis armisque sua moderamina summa Arbitrio tractare suo nil juris in hac re Pontifici summo , modicum concedere regi Suadebat populo . 
Sic laesa stultus utraque Majestate , reum geminae se fecerat aulae . 
Nor is the poetry of Gunther different from the prose of Otho . 
as the father of the political heretics , whose influence then hurt him in France . 
The English reader may consult the Biographia Britannica , Adrian IV . 
but our own writers have added nothing to the fame or merits of their countrymen . 
Besides the historian and poet already quoted , the last adventures of Arnold are related by the biographer of Adrian IV . 
But this venerable structure disappears before the light of criticism . 
In the darkness of the middle ages , the appellations of senators , of consuls , of the sons of consuls , may sometimes be discovered . 
The assembly of a free , of an armed , people , will ever speak in loud and weighty acclamations . 
But the rights of the tribunes , the formidable word that arrested the public counsels , suppose or must produce a legitimate democracy . 
Duo consules ex nobilitate quotannis fiebant , qui ad vetustum consulum exemplar summaererum praeessent . 
I read of the consuls and tribunes of the xth century . 
Both Blondus , and even Sigonius , too freely copied the classic method of supplying from reason or fancy the deficiency of records . 
a Roman is mentioned as consulis natus in the beginning of the xth century . 
discovers , in the years and , Gratianus in Dei nomine consul et dux , Georgius consul et dux and in , Romanus , brother of Gregory VIII . 
, proudly , but vaguely , styles himself consul et dux et omnium Roma norum senator . 
As late as the xth century , the Greek emperors conferred on the dukes of Venice , Naples , Amalphi , c . 
and the successors of Charlemagne would not abdicate any of their prerogative . 
The monkish writers are often ambitious of fine classic words . 
The most constitutional form is a diploma of Otho III . 
consulibus senatus populique Romani but the act is probably spurious . 
describes him , a senatoribus duodecem vallatum , quorum sex rasi barba , alii prolixa , mystice incedebant cum baculis . 
Lapsa ruinosis , et adhuc pendentia muris Reddere primaevo Capitolia prisca nitori . 
But of these reformations , some were no more than ideas , others no more than words . 
In the revolution of the twelfth century , which gave a new existence and aera to Rome , we may observe the real and important events that marked or confirmed her political independence . 
I. The Capitoline hill , one of her seven eminences , is about four hundred yards in length , and two hundred in breadth . 
Some of these republican coins of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries are shown in the cabinets of the curious . 
Peter delivering a banner to a kneeling senator in his cap and gown , with the name and arms of his family impressed on a shield . 
were invested with the legislative and executive power but their views seldom reached beyond the present day and that day was most frequently disturbed by violence and tumult . 
The motives of public and private interest might sometimes draw from the Romans an occasional and temporary sacrifice of their claims and they renewed their oath of allegiance to the successor of St . 
Peter and Constantine , the lawful head of the church and the republic . 
, et seqq M. Tacit . 
assigns convincing reasons in support of this opinion . 
Muratori exhibits a series of the senatorian coins , which bore the obscure names of Affortiati , Infortiati , Provisini , Paparini . 
During this period , all the popes , without excepting Boniface VIII , abstained from the right of coining , which was resumed by his successor Benedict XI . 
, and regularly exercised in the court of Avignon . 
describe the election and oath of the praefect in , inconsultis patribus . 
juraturum populo in ambonem sublevant . 
confirmari eum in urbe praefectum petunt . 
Cur countryman , Roger Hoveden , speaks of the single senators , of the Capuzzi family , c . 
, quorum temporibus melius regebatur Roma quam nunc est temporibus lvi . 
has published an original treaty Concordia inter D. nostrum papam Clementem III . 
et senatores populi Romani super regalibus et aliis dignitatibus urbis , c . 
The senate speaks , and speaks with authority Reddimus ad praesens . 
jurabimus pacem et fidelitatem , c . 
A chartula de Tenementis Tusculani , dated in the th year of the same aera , and confirmed decreto amplissimi ordinis senatus , acclamatione P. R. publice Capitolio consistentis . 
The union and vigor of a public council was dissolved in a lawless city and the Romans soon adopted a more strong and simple mode of administration . 
They swore to obey him as their lawful superior he pledged his faith to unite the indifference of a stranger with the zeal of a patriot . 
has fully explained this mode of government and the Occulus Pastoralis , which he has given at the end , is a treatise or sermon on the duties of these foreign magistrates . 
Chapter LXIX State Of Rome From The Twelfth Century . 
No criminals were so powerful as to brave , so obscure as to elude , the justice of the senator . 
The bishop , as a simple bishop , was compelled to reside in his diocese and the standard of Brancaleone was displayed in the field with terror and effect . 
His services were repaid by the ingratitude of a people unworthy of the happiness which they enjoyed . 
This generous resistance allowed the Romans to compare the present with the past and Brancaleone was conducted from the prison to the Capitol amidst the acclamations of a repentant people . 
See the life and death of Brancaleone , in the Historia Major of Matthew Paris , p . 
, , , , , , , , , . 
The multitude of pilgrims and suitors connected Rome and St . 
Albans , and the resentment of the English clergy prompted them to rejoice when ever the popes were humbled and oppressed . 
Fuerat enim superborum potentum et malefactorum urbis malleus et extirpator , et populi protector et defensor veritatis et justitiae imitator et amator , A biographer of Innocent IV . 
draws a less favorable portrait of this Ghibeline senator . 
The absolute term of his life was superseded by a renewal every third year and the enmity of Nicholas the Third obliged the Sicilian king to abdicate the government of Rome . 
This prohibitory clause was repealed in his own behalf by Martin the Fourth , who humbly solicited the suffrage of the Romans . 
The high sounding bull of Nicholas III . 
, which founds his temporal sovereignty on the donation of Constantine , is still extant and as it has been inserted by Boniface VIII . 
in the Sexte of the Decretals , it must be received by the Catholics , or at least by the Papists , as a sacred and perpetual law . 
The style of their ambassadors to Conrad the Third and Frederic the First is a mixture of flattery and pride , the tradition and the ignorance of their own history . 
After some complaint of his silence and neglect , they exhort the former of these princes to pass the Alps , and assume from their hands the Imperial crown . 
The pope and the Sicilian are united in an impious league to oppose our liberty and your coronation . 
With the blessing of God , our zeal and courage has hitherto defeated their attempts . 
The Milvian bridge , which they had broken , is restored and fortified for your safe passage and your army may enter the city without being annoyed from the castle of St . 
perhaps the noblest of historians he was son of Leopold marquis of Austria his mother , Agnes , was daughter of the emperor Henry IV . 
, and he was half brother and uncle to Conrad III . 
to restore the empire in um statum , quo fuit tempore Constantini et Justiniani , qui totum orbem vigore senatus et populi Romani suis tenuere manibus . 
de Gestis Frederici I. l . 
His nephew and successor , Frederic Barbarossa , was more ambitious of the Imperial crown nor had any of the successors of Otho acquired such absolute sway over the kingdom of Italy . 
Under your auspicious influence , may the primitive times be restored . 
Assert the prerogatives of the eternal city , and reduce under her monarchy the insolence of the world . 
By our sins , in the absence of our princes , the noble institution of the senate has sunk in oblivion and with our prudence , our strength has likewise decreased . 
With the name , assume the character , of Augustus . 
The flowers of Latin rhetoric were not yet exhausted but Frederic , impatient of their vanity , interrupted the orators in the high tone of royalty and conquest . 
Famous indeed have been the fortitude and wisdom of the ancient Romans but your speech is not seasoned with wisdom , and I could wish that fortitude were conspicuous in your actions . 
Like all sublunary things , Rome has felt the vicissitudes of time and fortune . 
Your noblest families were translated to the East , to the royal city of Constantine and the remains of your strength and freedom have long since been exhausted by the Greeks and Franks . 
You pretend that myself or my predecessors have been invited by the Romans you mistake the word they were not invited , they were implored . 
From its foreign and domestic tyrants , the city was rescued by Charlemagne and Otho , whose ashes repose in our country and their dominion was the price of your deliverance . 
Under that dominion your ancestors lived and died . 
Can you doubt my equity ? It is extended to the meanest of my subjects . 
Will not my sword be unsheathed in the defence of the Capitol ? By that sword the northern kingdom of Denmark has been restored to the Roman empire . 
You prescribe the measure and the objects of my bounty , which flows in a copious but a voluntary stream . 
All will be given to patient merit all will be denied to rude importunity . 
Neither the emperor nor the senate could maintain these lofty pretensions of dominion and liberty . 
About twelve years afterwards , he besieged Rome , to seat an antipope in the chair of St . 
After the extinction of the house of Swabia , they were banished beyond the Alps and their last coronations betrayed the impotence and poverty of the Teutonic Caesars . 
Hospes eras , civem feci . 
Advena fuisti ex Transalpinis partibus principem constitui . 
Non cessit nobis nudum imperium , virtute sua amictum venit , ornamenta sua secum traxit . 
Penes nos sunt consules tui , c . 
Cicero or Livy would not have rejected these images , the eloquence of a Barbarian born and educated in the Hercynian forest . 
he adds , however , the epithet of Teutonici . 
de Gestis Frederici I. , l . 
These original and authentic acts I have translated and abridged with freedom , yet with fidelity . 
has translated this curious fact with the doggerel verses that accompanied the gift Ave decus orbis , ave ! victus tibi destinor , ave ! Currus ab Augusto Frederico Caesare justo . 
Vae Mediolanum ! jam sentis spernere vanum Imperii vires , proprias tibi tollere vires . 
Ergo triumphorum urbs potes memor esse priorum Quos tibi mittebant reges qui bella gerebant . 
che nell' anno , una copia desso Caroccio in marmo dianzi ignoto si scopri , nel campidoglio , presso alle carcere di quel luogo , dove Sisto V. l'avea falto rinchiudere . 
Stava esso posto sopra quatro colonne di marmo fino colla sequente inscrizione , c . 
to the same purpose as the old inscription . 
by Schmidt , who has deserved the esteem of his countrymen . 
The adjacent territory on either side of the Tyber was always claimed , and sometimes possessed , as the patrimony of St . 
Peter but the barons assumed a lawless independence , and the cities too faithfully copied the revolt and discord of the metropolis . 
Their warfare was that of the first consuls and dictators , who were taken from the plough . 
Peter and the pope's auxiliaries were commanded by a count of Thoulouse and a bishop of Winchester . 
Had the policy of the senate and the discipline of the legions been restored with the Capitol , the divided condition of Italy would have offered the fairest opportunity of a second conquest . 
But in arms , the modern Romans were not above , and in arts , they were far below , the common level of the neighboring republics . 
Tibur nunc suburbanum , et aestivae Praeneste deliciae , nuncupatia in Capitolio votis petebantur . 
For the state or ruin of these suburban cities , the banks of the Tyber , c . 
has added to the topographical map of Cingolani . 
mentions a recent decree of the Roman government , which has severely mortified the pride and poverty of Tivoli in civitate Tiburtina non vivitur civiliter . 
and is described , by the English historian , as a soldier and a statesman . 
Ambition is a weed of quick and early vegetation in the vineyard of Christ . 
Under the first Christian princes , the chair of St . 
The emperor Lewis of Bavaria revived the example of the great Otho . 
After some negotiation with the magistrates , the Roman people were assembled in the square before St . 
Peter's the pope of Avignon , John the Twenty second , was deposed the choice of his successor was ratified by their consent and applause . 
Alexander himself had nearly been the victim of a contested election and the doubtful merits of Innocent had only preponderated by the weight of genius and learning which St . 
The origin , titles , importance , dress , precedency , c . 
but their purple is now much faded . 
The sacred college was raised to the definite number of seventy two , to represent , under his vicar , the disciples of Christ . 
a supplement to the Decretals , which Boniface VIII . 
promulgated at Rome in , and addressed in all the universities of Europe . 
has been continued since the reign of Alexander VII . 
The accidental form of the work furnishes a lesson , though not an antidote , to ambition . 
From a labyrinth of intrigues , we emerge to the adoration of the successful candidate but the next page opens with his funeral . 
et buone huomini , uno per rione . 
Our knowledge is too imperfect to pronounce how much of this constitution was temporary , and how much ordinary and permanent . 
Yet it is faintly illustrated by the ancient statutes of Rome . 
relates this law , and the whole transaction , with much less abhorrence than the prudent Muratori . 
of superstition is fluctuating and inconsistent . 
In the first volume of the Popes of Avignon , see the second original Life of John XXII . 
, the confession of the antipope p . 
, and the laborious notes of Baluze , p . 
Had the election been always held in the Vatican , the rights of the senate and people would not have been violated with impunity . 
But the Romans forgot , and were forgotten . 
in the absence of the successors of Gregory the Seventh , who did not keep as a divine precept their ordinary residence in the city and diocese . 
When the flock was offended or impoverished by the absence of the shepherd , they were recalled by a stern admonition , that St . 
After a short interval of peace , and perhaps of authority , they were again banished by new tumults , and again summoned by the imperious or respectful invitation of the senate . 
who entered like a fox , reigned like a lion , and died like a dog . 
He was succeeded by Benedict the Eleventh , the mildest of mankind . 
Yet he excommunicated the impious emissaries of Philip , and devoted the city and people of Anagni by a tremendous curse , whose effects are still visible to the eyes of superstition . 
Quod cum audisset papa , praecordialiter ingemuit , et se comperiens muscipulatum , c . 
For the ordinary history of the popes , their life and death , their residence and absence , it is enough to refer to the ecclesiastical annalists , Spondanus and Fleury . 
Chapter LXIX State Of Rome From The Twelfth Century . 
After his decease , the tedious and equal suspense of the conclave was fixed by the dexterity of the French faction . 
A specious offer was made and accepted , that , in the term of forty days , they would elect one of the three candidates who should be named by their opponents . 
The terms were regulated in a private interview and with such speed and secrecy was the business transacted , that the unanimous conclave applauded the elevation of Clement the Fifth . 
The cardinals of both parties were soon astonished by a summons to attend him beyond the Alps from whence , as they soon discovered , they must never hope to return . 
the imprisonment of Boniface VIII . 
, and the election of Clement V. , the last of which , like most anecdotes , is embarrassed with some difficulties . 
The original lives of the eight popes of Avignon , Clement V. , John XXII . 
, Urban V. , Gregory XI . 
with copious and elaborate notes , and a second volume of acts and documents . 
With the true zeal of an editor and a patriot , he devoutly justifies or excuses the characters of his countrymen . 
The exile of Avignon is compared by the Italians with Babylon , and the Babylonish captivity . 
Such furious metaphors , more suitable to the ardor of Petrarch than to the judgment of Muratori , are gravely refuted in Baluze's preface . 
The abbe de Sade is distracted between the love of Petrarch and of his country . 
The comtat Venaissin was ceded to the popes in by Philip III . 
king of France , after he had inherited the dominions of the count of Thoulouse . 
If a possession of four centuries were not itself a title , such objections might annul the bargain but the purchase money must be refunded , for indeed it was paid . 
per ejusmodi venditionem pecunia redundates , c . 
The only temptation for Jane and her second husband was ready money , and without it they could not have returned to the throne of Naples . 
In , the pope refused two candidates recommended by the king of France , quod xx . 
Cardinales , de quibus xvii . 
Peter was crowded with the faithful , who demanded the customary indulgence of the holy time . 
The gracious pontiff complied with their wishes afforded Rome this poor consolation for his loss and justified the change by the name and practice of the Mosaic Jubilee . 
His summons was obeyed and the number , zeal , and liberality of the pilgrims did not yield to the primitive festival . 
and I am at a loss to determine whether the nephew of Boniface VIII . 
be a fool or a knave the uncle is a much clearer character . 
of Muratori's Collection Papa innumerabilem pecuniam abeisdem accepit , nam duo clerici , cum rastris , c . 
The two bulls of Boniface VIII . 
are inserted on the Corpus Juris Canonici , Extravagant . 
the suspension of all care and labor , the periodical release of lands , debts , servitude , c . 
of Muratori , and the Memoires sur la Vie de Petrarque , tom . 
The subject is exhausted by M. Chais , a French minister at the Hague , in his Lettres Historiques et Dogmatiques , sur les Jubiles et es Indulgences la Haye , , vols . 
an elaborate and pleasing work , had not the author preferred the character of a polemic to that of a philosopher . 
In the beginning of the eleventh century , Italy was exposed to the feudal tyranny , alike oppressive to the sovereign and the people . 
The rights of human nature were vindicated by her numerous republics , who soon extended their liberty and dominion from the city to the adjacent country . 
But the feeble and disorderly government of Rome was unequal to the task of curbing her rebellious sons , who scorned the authority of the magistrate within and without the walls . 
In the time of Leo the Ninth , a wealthy and learned Jew was converted to Christianity , and honored at his baptism with the name of his godfather , the reigning Pope . 
A majority of the clergy and people supported his cause he reigned several years in the Vatican and it is only the eloquence of St . 
Bernard , and the final triumph of Innocence the Second , that has branded Anacletus with the epithet of antipope . 
After his defeat and death , the posterity of Leo is no longer conspicuous and none will be found of the modern nobles ambitious of descending from a Jewish stock . 
It is not my design to enumerate the Roman families which have failed at different periods , or those which are continued in different degrees of splendor to the present time . 
alleges the Annals of Florence , Padua , Genoa , c . 
and the submission of the marouis of Este . 
As early as the year , the emperor Lothaire I. found it expedient to interrogate the Roman people , to learn from each individual by what national law he chose to be governed . 
The fact must in some degree be true yet I could wish that it had been coolly related , before it was turned into a reproach against the antipope . 
to the names , surnames , and families of Italy . 
George , in his poetical , or rather metrical history of the election and coronation of Boniface VIII . 
describes the state and families of Rome at the coronation of Boniface VIII . 
Interea titulis redimiti sanguine et armis Illustresque viri Romana a stirpe trahentes Nomen in emeritos tantae virtutis honores Insulerant sese medios festumque colebant Aurata fulgente toga , sociante caterva . 
Ex ipsis devota domus praestantis ab Ursa Ecclesiae , vultumque gerens demissius altum Festa Columna jocis , necnon Sabellia mitis Stephanides senior , Comites Annibalica proles , Praefectusque urbis magnum sine viribus nomen . 
distinguish eleven families of barons , who are obliged to swear in concilio communi , before the senator , that they would not harbor or protect any malefactors , outlaws , c . 
Their first historical appearance in the year eleven hundred and four attests the power and antiquity , while it explains the simple meaning , of the name . 
About the end of the thirteenth century , the most powerful branch was composed of an uncle and six bothers , all conspicuous in arms , or in the honors of the church . 
After his decease their haughty behavior provoked the displeasure of the most implacable of mankind . 
The two cardinals , the uncle and the nephew , denied the election of Boniface the Eighth and the Colonna were oppressed for a moment by his temporal and spiritual arms . 
He proclaimed a crusade against his personal enemies their estates were confiscated their fortresses on either side of the Tyber were besieged by the troops of St . 
Peter and those of the rival nobles and after the ruin of Palestrina or Praeneste , their principal seat , the ground was marked with a ploughshare , the emblem of perpetual desolation . 
Degraded , banished , proscribed , the six brothers , in disguise and danger , wandered over Europe without renouncing the hope of deliverance and revenge . 
All the spiritual censures and disqualifications were abolished by his prudent successors and the fortune of the house was more firmly established by this transient hurricane . 
Their riches may be accused as an early abuse of nepotism the estates of St . 
The eagle and the keys were displayed in their adverse banners and the two factions of Italy most furiously raged when the origin and nature of the dispute were long since forgotten . 
After the retreat of the popes to Avignon they disputed in arms the vacant republic and the mischiefs of discord were perpetuated by the wretched compromise of electing each year two rival senators . 
By their private hostilities the city and country were desolated , and the fluctuating balance inclined with their alternate success . 
But none of either family had fallen by the sword , till the most renowned champion of the Ursini was surprised and slain by the younger Stephen Colonna . 
His triumph is stained with the reproach of violating the truce their defeat was basely avenged by the assassination , before the church door , of an innocent boy and his two servants . 
Yet the victorious Colonna , with an annual colleague , was declared senator of Rome during the term of five years . 
It is pity that the Colonna themselves have not favored the world with a complete and critical history of their illustrious house . 
The family has still great possessions in the Campagna of Rome but they have alienated to the Rospigliosi this original fief of Colonna , Eschinard , p . 
but the royal author of the Memoirs of Brandenburg observes , that the sceptre in his arms has been confounded with the column . 
Muratori , Annali d'Italia , tom . 
Petrarch's attachment to the Colonna has authorized the abbe de Sade to expatiate on the state of the family in the fourteenth century , the persecution of Boniface VIII . 
, the character of Stephen and his sons , their quarrels with the Ursini , c . 
His criticism often rectifies the hearsay stories of Villani , and the errors of the less diligent moderns . 
I understand the branch of Stephen to be now extinct . 
Treason , sacrilege , and proscription are often the best titles of ancient nobility . 
Vallis te proxima misit , Appenninigenae qua prata virentia sylvae Spoletana metunt armenta gregesque protervi . 
gives the Ursini a French origin , which may be remotely true . 
In the metrical life of Celestine V. by the cardinal of St . 
Progenies , Romana domus , veterataque magnis Fascibus in clero , pompasque experta senatus , Bellorumque manu grandi stipata parentum Cardineos apices necnon fastigia dudum Papatus iterata tenens . 
observes , that the first Ursini pontificate of Celestine III . 
was unknown he is inclined to read Ursi progenies . 
The partial prodigality of Nicholas III . 
is more conspicuous in Villani and Muratori . 
Yet the Ursini would disdain the nephews of a modern pope . 
In his fifty first Dissertation on the Italian Antiquities , Muratori explains the factions of the Guelphs and Ghibelines . 
are less favorable to their arms . 
has applied the vith Canzone of Petrarch , Spirto Gentil , c . 
Part I. Character And Coronation Of Petrarch . 
Restoration Of The Freedom And Government Of Rome By The Tribune Rienzi . 
His Virtues And Vices , His Expulsion And Death . 
Return Of The Popes From Avignon . 
Great Schism Of The West . 
Reunion Of The Latin Church . 
Last Struggles Of Roman Liberty . 
Final Settlement Of The Ecclesiastical State . 
In the apprehension of modern times , Petrarch is the Italian songster of Laura and love . 
But in the eyes of Petrarch , and those of his graver contemporaries , his love was a sin , and Italian verse a frivolous amusement . 
From his earliest youth , Petrarch aspired to the poetic crown . 
In the preface to his first volume , he enumerates and weighs twenty Italian biographers , who have professedly treated of the same subject . 
It was , in truth , the retreat of a hermit and the moderns are much mistaken , if they place Laura and a happy lover in the grotto . 
Of pages , in a close print , at Basil in the xvith century , but without the date of the year . 
Consult Selden's Titles of Honor , in his works , A hundred years before Petrarch , St . 
Francis received the visit of a poet , qui ab imperatore fuerat coronatus et exinde rex versuum dictus . 
I speak the more freely , as the best time for abolishing this ridiculous custom is while the prince is a man of virtue and the poet a man of genius . 
claims for his native Athens the glory of first instituting and recommending . 
may do honor to the games of the Capitol but the Latin poets who lived before Domitian were crowned only in the public opinion . 
The ceremony of his coronation was performed in the Capitol , by his friend and patron the supreme magistrate of the republic . 
The grant was ratified by the authority of the senate and people and the character of citizen was the recompense of his affection for the Roman name . 
They did him honor , but they did him justice . 
The aspect of the seven hills and their majestic ruins confirmed these lively impressions and he loved a country by whose liberal spirit he had been crowned and adopted . 
Amidst the indulgence of enthusiasm and eloquence , Petrarch , Italy , and Europe , were astonished by a revolution which realized for a moment his most splendid visions . 
from his own writings , and the Roman diary of Ludovico , Monaldeschi , without mixing in this authentic narrative the more recent fables of Sannuccio Delbene . 
The original act is printed among the Pieces Justificatives in the Memoires sur Petrarque , tom . 
To find the proofs of his enthusiasm for Rome , I need only request that the reader would open , by chance , either Petrarch , or his French biographer . 
But in the place of much idle rhetoric and morality , Petrarch might have amused the present and future age with an original account of the city and his coronation . 
was published at Paris , , in mo . 
Not an idea or a fact in the writings of Petrarch has probably escaped him . 
, , in Muratori , Rerum Italicarum Scriptores , tom . 
di Rienzi which had been printed at Bracciano , , in to . 
, under the name of Tomaso Fortifiocca , who is only mentioned in this work as having been punished by the tribune for forgery . 
These documents were first discovered and made use of , to a certain extent , by Pelzel , the historian of Bohemia . 
The originals have disappeared , but a copy made by Pelzel for his own use is now in the library of Count Thun at Teschen . 
There seems no doubt of their authenticity . 
Papencordt has printed the whole in his i Urkunden , with the exception of one long theological paper . 
In a quarter of the city which was inhabited only by mechanics and Jews , the marriage of an innkeeper and a washer woman produced the future deliverer of Rome . 
A numerous assembly of nobles and plebeians was invited to this political lecture , and a convenient theatre was erected for their reception . 
which , in the new division , forms the iid book of the history in xxxviii . 
! But see in Dr . 
Compare account by the editor of Dr . 
Papencordt's work in Quarterly Review vol . 
The reader may be pleased with a specimen of the original idiom Fo da soa juventutine nutricato di latte de eloquentia , bono gramatico , megliore rettuorico , autorista bravo . 
Deh como et quanto era veloce leitore ! moito usava Tito Livio , Seneca , et Tullio , et Balerio Massimo , moito li dilettava le magnificentie di Julio Cesare raccontare . 
Tutta la die se speculava negl' intagli di marmo lequali iaccio intorno Roma . 
Non era altri che esso , che sapesse lejere li antichi pataffii . 
Tutte scritture antiche vulgarizzava quesse fiure di marmo justamente interpretava . 
Rienzi's joyful letter to the people of Rome on the apparently favorable termination of this mission . 
! ! All this Rienzi , writing at a later period to the archbishop of Prague , attributed to the criminal abandonment of his flock by the supreme pontiff . 
See Urkunde apud Papencordt , p . 
The fragments of the Lex regia may be found in the Inscriptions of Gruter , tom . 
, and at the end of the Tacitus of Ernesti , with some learned notes of the editor , tom . 
I cannot overlook a stupendous and laughable blunder of Rienzi . 
The Lex regia empowers Vespasian to enlarge the Pomoerium , a word familiar to every antiquary . 
Even the learning of Muratori has slumbered over the passage . 
tamen similior , juvenis uterque , longe ingenic quam cujus simulationem induerat , ut sub hoc obtentu liberator ille P R. aperiretur tempore suo . 
Note Fatcor attamen quod nunc fatuum . 
nunc hystrionem , nunc gravem nunc simplicem , nunc astutum , nunc fervidum , nunc timidum simulato rem , et dissimulatorem ad hunc caritativum finem , quem dixi , constitusepius memet ipsum . 
Writing to an archbishop , Rienzi alleges scriptural examples . 
Saltator coram archa David et insanus apparuit coram Rege blanda , astuta , et tecta Judith astitit Holoferni et astate Jacob meruit benedici , Urkunde xlix . 
A prophecy , or rather a summons , affixed on the church door of St . 
George , was the first public evidence of his designs a nocturnal assembly of a hundred citizens on Mount Aventine , the first step to their execution . 
Angelo , to provide for the reestablishment of the good estate . 
In the first , the banner of liberty , Rome was seated on two lions , with a palm in one hand and a globe in the other St . 
Paul , with a drawn sword , was delineated in the banner of justice and in the third , St . 
Peter held the keys of concord and peace . 
Rienzi was encouraged by the presence and applause of an innumerable crowd , who understood little , and hoped much and the procession slowly rolled forwards from the castle of St . 
The great bell instantly rang an alarm , and so rapid was the tide , so urgent was the danger , that Colonna escaped with precipitation to the suburb of St . 
But such voluntary obedience evaporates with the first transports of zeal and Rienzi felt the importance of justifying his usurpation by a regular form and a legal title . 
In this character , and with the consent of the Roman , the tribune enacted the most salutary laws for the restoration and maintenance of the good estate . 
By the first he fulfils the wish of honesty and inexperience , that no civil suit should be protracted beyond the term of fifteen days . 
But the execution of justice was hopeless till he had previously abolished the tyranny of the nobles . 
But these regulations would have been impotent and nugatory , had not the licentious nobles been awed by the sword of the civil power . 
It was the boast of Rienzi , that he had delivered the throne and patrimony of St . 
Libellus Tribuni ad Caesarem , p . 
, apud du Cerceau , Hist . 
The fifteen tribunitian laws may be found in the Roman historian Fortifiocca , l . 
Chapter LXX Final Settlement Of The Ecclesiastical State . 
Never perhaps has the energy and effect of a single mind been more remarkably felt than in the sudden , though transient , reformation of Rome by the tribune Rienzi . 
The venerable father of the Colonna was exposed in his own palace to the double shame of being desirous , and of being unable , to protect a criminal . 
His name , the purple of two cardinals , his uncles , a recent marriage , and a mortal disease were disregarded by the inflexible tribune , who had chosen his victim . 
From the account of this shipwreck , we learn some circumstances of the trade and navigation of the age . 
The ship was built and freighted at Naples for the ports of Marseilles and Avignon . 
The sailors were of Naples and the Isle of Oenaria less skilful than those of Sicily and Genoa . 
His pen was not less eloquent than his tongue and his numerous epistles were delivered to swift and trusty messengers . 
Beyond the Alps , more especially at Avignon , the revolution was the theme of curiosity , wonder , and applause . 
The consciousness of merit and power will sometimes elevate the manners to the station . 
The abbe de Sade wishes to extenuate her guilt . 
The advocate who pleaded against Jane could add nothing to the logical force and brevity of his master's epistle . 
Johanna ! inordinata vita praecedens , retentio potestatis in regno , neglecta vindicta , vir alter susceptus , et excusatio subsequens , necis viri tui te probant fuisse participem et consortem . 
Jane of Naples , and Mary of Scotland , have a singular conformity . 
In the Libellus ad Caesarem I received the homage and submission of all the sovereigns of Apulia , the barons and counts , and almost all the people of Italy . 
I was honored by solemn embassies and letters by the emperor of Constantinople and the king of England . 
The queen of Naples submitted herself and her kingdom to the protection of the tribune . 
and the vth eclogue or pastoral , a perpetual and obscure allegory . 
Could Tacitus have excelled this ? Hallam , vol i p . 
states , on the most constitutional principles , the simple greatness of the tribunes , who were not properly magistrates , but a check on magistracy . 
It was their duty and interest . 
Rienzi , and Petrarch himself , were incapable perhaps of reading a Greek philosopher but they might have imbibed the same modest doctrines from their favorite Latins , Livy and Valerius Maximus . 
I could not express in English the forcible , though barbarous , title of Zelator Italiae , which Rienzi assumed . 
It is remarkable , that the riso sarcastico of the Bracciano edition is wanting in the Roman MS . 
, from which Muratori has given the text . 
All that yet remained of treasure , or luxury , or art , was exhausted on that solemn day . 
In the evening , which they had reached the church and palace of Constantine , he thanked and dismissed the numerous assembly , with an invitation to the festival of the ensuing day . 
had been healed of his leprosy by Pope Sylvester . 
With equal presumption the tribune watched or reposed within the consecrated precincts of the baptistery and the failure of his state bed was interpreted as an omen of his approaching downfall . 
A banquet , such as the Caesars had given , was prepared for the Romans . 
These extraordinary spectacles might deceive or flatter the people and their own vanity was gratified in the vanity of their leader . 
exposed the contrast of vulgar manners and princely expense and without acquiring the majesty , Rienzi degenerated into the vices , of a king . 
Strange as it may seem , this festival was not without a precedent . 
Maria of Araceli in the Capitol , by the twenty eight buoni huomini . 
and Rienzi justified his own conduct by observing to the court of Avignon , that a vase which had been used by a Pagan could not be profaned by a pious Christian . 
This verbal summons of Pope Clement VI . 
It was on this occasion that he made the profane comparison between himself and our Lord and the striking circumstance took place which he relates in his letter to the archbishop of Prague . 
Now , replied the man of God , is thy master cast down from heaven never saw I man so proud . 
By the aid of the Holy Ghost he has driven the tyrants from the city without drawing a sword the cities and the sovereigns of Italy have submitted to his power . 
In the evening the chaplain communicated this solemn rebuke to the tribune it appalled him for the time , but was soon forgotten in the tumult and hurry of business . 
A simple citizen describes with pity , or perhaps with pleasure , the humiliation of the barons of Rome . 
On the same day , under various pretences , he invited to the Capitol his principal enemies , among whom were five members of the Ursini and three of the Colonna name . 
In the morning they understood their sentence from the visit of a confessor and the tolling of the bell . 
Puoi se faceva stare denante a se , mentre sedeva , li baroni tutti in piedi ritti co le vraccia piecate , e co li capucci tratti . 
He saw them , and we see them . 
displays , in genuine colors , the mixture of the knave and the madman . 
In the camp , Rienzi appeared to less advantage than in the rostrum and he neglected the progress of the rebel barons till their numbers were strong , and their castles impregnable . 
as the representatives of the Ursini . 
The city was prepared for their reception the alarm bell rung all night the gates were strictly guarded , or insolently open and after some hesitation they sounded a retreat . 
The vision and prophecies of St . 
The people sympathized in their grief , repented of their own fury , and detested the indecent joy of Rienzi , who visited the spot where these illustrious victims had fallen . 
Rienzi , in the above mentioned letter , ascribes to St . 
Martin the tribune , Boniface VIII . 
the enemy of Colonna , himself , and the Roman people , the glory of the day , which Villani likewise describes as a regular battle . 
In describing the fall of the Colonna , I speak only of the family of Stephen the elder , who is often confounded by the P. du Cerceau with his son . 
That family was extinguished , but the house has been perpetuated in the collateral branches , of which I have not a very accurate knowledge . 
familiae tuae statum , Columniensium domos solito pauciores habeat columnas . 
Quid ad rem modo fundamentum stabile , solidumque permaneat . 
The friend was lost in the patriot . 
Nulla toto orbe principum familia carior carior tamen respublica , carior Roma , carior Italia . 
Je rends graces aux Dieux de n'etre pas Romain . 
A short delay would have saved the Colonna , the delay of a single month , which elapsed between the triumph and the exile of Rienzi . 
In the pride of victory , he forfeited what yet remained of his civil virtues , without acquiring the fame of military prowess . 
The briefs and bulls of Clement VI . 
who found them in the archives of the Vatican . 
See his imprisonment , and the efforts of Petrarch , tom . 
) Chapter LXX Final Settlement Of The Ecclesiastical State . 
Angelo , from whence he peaceably withdrew , after laboring , without effect , to revive the affection and courage of the Romans . 
The dangerous office of tribune was successively occupied by two plebeians , Cerroni and Baroncelli . 
The mildness of Cerroni was unequal to the times and after a faint struggle , he retired with a fair reputation and a decent fortune to the comforts of rural life . 
Amidst the public misfortunes , the faults of Rienzi were forgotten and the Romans sighed for the peace and prosperity of their good estate . 
I have slightly passed over these secondary characters , who imitated the original tribune . 
After an exile of seven years , the first deliverer was again restored to his country . 
In the disguise of a monk or a pilgrim , he escaped from the castle of St . 
His person was invisible , his name was yet formidable and the anxiety of the court of Avignon supposes , and even magnifies , his personal merit . 
Rienzi was indulged with an easy confinement and the use of books and in the assiduous study of Livy and the Bible , he sought the cause and the consolation of his misfortunes . 
Note So far from having magnified these visions , Pollistore is more than confirmed by the documents published by Papencordt . 
The astonishment , the envy almost , of Petrarch is a proof , if not of the truth of this incredible fact , at least of his own veracity . 
His first reception was equal to his wishes the day of his entrance was a public festival and his eloquence and authority revived the laws of the good estate . 
In the death , as in the life , of Rienzi , the hero and the coward were strangely mingled . 
restored , by his arms and counsels , the temporal dominion of the popes . 
has extracted the life and death of the chevalier Montreal , the life of a robber and the death of a hero . 
At the head of a free company , the first that desolated Italy , he became rich and formidable be had money in all the banks , , ducats in Padua alone . 
Petrarch , who loved the tribune , was indifferent to the fate of the senator . 
The Capitol was yet stained with the blood of Rienzi , when Charles the Fourth descended from the Alps to obtain the Italian and Imperial crowns . 
but the deep , though secret , wound was the coronation of Zanubi , the poet laureate , by Charles IV . 
After the loss of liberty and empire , his third and more humble wish was to reconcile the shepherd with his flock to recall the Roman bishop to his ancient and peculiar diocese . 
He confesses that the successor of St . 
The execution of their design was opposed by weighty and almost insuperable obstacles . 
In their eyes , Italy was foreign or hostile and they reluctantly embarked at Marseilles , as if they had been sold or banished into the land of the Saracens . 
But the joy of Petrarch and the Italians was soon turned into grief and indignation . 
Catharine of Sienna , the spouse of Christ and ambassadress of the Florentines and the popes themselves , the great masters of human credulity , appear to have listened to these visionary females . 
Yet those celestial admonitions were supported by some arguments of temporal policy . 
While the pope was driven from Avignon , he was strenuously invited to Rome . 
See , in his accurate and amusing biographer , the application of Petrarch and Rome to Benedict XII . 
in the year , to Clement VI . 
of the last of these pontiffs . 
His angry controversy on the respective merits of France and Italy may be found , Opp . 
Squalida sed quoniam facies , neglectaque cultu Caesaries multisque malis lassata senectus Eripuit solitam effigiem vetus accipe nomen Roma vocor . 
He spins this allegory beyond all measure or patience . 
I have not leisure to expatiate on the legends of St . 
Catharine , the last of which might furnish some amusing stories . 
Their effect on the mind of Gregory XI . 
Fleury alleges , from the annals of Odericus Raynaldus , the original treaty which was signed the st of December , , between Gregory XI . 
on the episcopal mitre of the popes , is ascribed to the gift of Constantine , or Clovis . 
The second was added by Boniface VIII . 
, as the emblem not only of a spiritual , but of a temporal , kingdom . 
The three states of the church are represented by the triple crown which was introduced by John XXII . 
The return of the popes from Avignon to Rome , and their reception by the people , are related in the original lives of Urban V. and Gregory XI . 
Peter under the name of Urban the Sixth . 
During several weeks , the cardinals attended their new master with the fairest professions of attachment and loyalty till the summer heats permitted a decent escape from the city . 
The conclave was intimidated by the shouts , and encompassed by the arms , of thirty thousand rebels the bells of the Capitol and St . 
The vanity , rather than the interest , of the nation determined the court and clergy of France . 
Can the death of a good man be esteemed a punishment by those who believe in the immortality of the soul ? They betray the instability of their faith . 
the moral and pleasing tale of the Argive youths . 
The latter appear to be the most active and loquacious , and every fact and word in the original lives of Gregory XI . 
are supported in the notes of their editor Baluze . 
The ordinal numbers of the popes seems to decide the question against Clement VII . 
It is singular , or rather it is not singular , that saints , visions and miracles should be common to both parties . 
? An epistle , or declamation , in the name of Edward III . 
displays the zeal of the English nation against the Clementines . 
By the avocations of the schism , by foreign arms , and popular tumults , Urban the Sixth and his three successors were often compelled to interrupt their residence in the Vatican . 
Since the invasion of Robert the Norman , the Romans had pursued their domestic quarrels without the dangerous interposition of a stranger . 
Besieging Rome by land and water , he thrice entered the gates as a Barbarian conqueror profaned the altars , violated the virgins , pillaged the merchants , performed his devotions at St . 
Peter's , and left a garrison in the castle of St . 
Besides the general historians , the Diaries of Delphinus Gentilia Peter Antonius , and Stephen Infessura , in the great collection of Muratori , represented the state and misfortunes of Rome . 
that he styled himself Rex Romae , a title unknown to the world since the expulsion of Tarquin . 
But a nearer inspection has justified the reading of Rex Ramae , of Rama , an obscure kingdom annexed to the crown of Hungary . 
I have not undertaken the ecclesiastical history of the schism but Rome , the object of these last chapters , is deeply interested in the disputed succession of her sovereigns . 
The answers of Benedict and Gregory were alike edifying and alike deceitful and , in evading the demand of their abdication , the two rivals were animated by a common spirit . 
They agreed on the necessity of a previous interview but the time , the place , and the manner , could never be ascertained by mutual consent . 
If the one advances , says a servant of Gregory , the other retreats the one appears an animal fearful of the land , the other a creature apprehensive of the water . 
And thus , for a short remnant of life and power , will these aged priests endanger the peace and salvation of the Christian world . 
Of this measure , John Gerson , a stout doctor , was the author of the champion . 
has given a valuable extract . 
John Gerson acted an important part in the councils of Pisa and Constance . 
But instead of extinguishing the schism , the rashness of the French and Italians had given a third pretender to the chair of St . 
To vanquish the obstinacy of Benedict the Thirteenth or his adherents , the emperor in person undertook a journey from Constance to Perpignan . 
After thus eradicating the remains of the schism , the synod of Constance proceeded with slow and cautious steps to elect the sovereign of Rome and the head of the church . 
I cannot overlook this great national cause , which was vigorously maintained by the English ambassadors against those of France . 
were comprehended under one or other of these great divisions . 
besides cathedrals , colleges , priories , and hospitals . 
They celebrate the mission of St . 
who reckons only four Christian kingdoms , . 
of Ireland , which had been transferred to the English monarchs , and , of Spain . 
Our countrymen prevailed in the council , but the victories of Henry V. added much weight to their arguments . 
The adverse pleadings were found at Constance by Sir Robert Wingfield , ambassador of Henry VIII . 
to the emperor Maximilian I. , and by him printed in at Louvain . 
From a Leipsic Ms. they are more correctly published in the collection of Von der Hardt , tom . 
They form six volumes in quarto and as Basil is the worst , so Constance is the best , part of the Collection . 
Chapter LXX Final Settlement Of The Ecclesiastical State . 
But he still possessed in the castle of St . 
Their constancy was exhausted by a rebellion of five months . 
Under the tyranny of the Ghibeline nobles , the wisest patriots regretted the dominion of the church and their repentance was unanimous and effectual . 
Rome was restored , adorned , and enlightened , by the peaceful reign of Nicholas the Fifth . 
After drawing his military force to the metropolis , and imposing the best security of oaths and treaties , Nicholas received with a smiling countenance the faithful advocate and vassal of the church . 
See the xxviith Dissertation of the Antiquities of Muratori , and the st Instruction of the Science des Medailles of the Pere Joubert and the Baron de la Bastie . 
Besides the Lives of Eugenius IV . 
the Diaries of Paul Petroni and Stephen Infessura are the best original evidence for the revolt of the Romans against Eugenius IV . 
The former , who lived at the time and on the spot , speaks the language of a citizen , equally afraid of priestly and popular tyranny . 
The coronation of Frederic III . 
from Aeneas Sylvius , a spectator and actor in that splendid scene . 
The election was annual a severe scrutiny was instituted into the conduct of the departing senator nor could he be recalled to the same office till after the expiration of two years . 
A liberal salary of three thousand florins was assigned for his expense and reward and his public appearance represented the majesty of the republic . 
The popular legislature consisted of the secret and the common councils of the Romans . 
The title of feuds , defiances , acts of violence , c . 
, is spread through many a chapter of the second book . 
Statuta almoe Urbis Romoe Auctoritate S. D. N. Gregorii XIII Pont . 
Romoe , , in folio . 
The obsolete , repugnant statutes of antiquity were confounded in five books , and Lucas Paetus , a lawyer and antiquarian , was appointed to act as the modern Tribonian . 
Yet I regret the old code , with the rugged crust of freedom and barbarism . 
the senator of Rome was M. Bielke , a noble Swede and a proselyte to the Catholic faith . 
The pope's right to appoint the senator and the conservator is implied , rather than affirmed , in the statutes . 
It is an obvious truth , that the times must be suited to extraordinary characters , and that the genius of Cromwell or Retz might now expire in obscurity . 
The political enthusiasm of Rienzi had exalted him to a throne the same enthusiasm , in the next century , conducted his imitator to the gallows . 
on the next day , the festival of the Epiphany , to seize the pope and his cardinals , before the doors , or at the altar , of St . 
Peter's to lead them in chains under the walls of St . 
While he triumphed , he was already betrayed . 
After such manifest and repeated guilt , even the mercy of Nicholas was silent . 
It is amusing to compare the style and sentiments of the courtier and citizen . 
neque periculo horribilius , neque audacia detestabilius , neque crudelitate tetrius , a quoquam perditissimo uspiam excogitatum sit . 
Perdette la vita quell' huomo da bene , e amatore dello bene e liberta di Roma . 
But the independence of the nobles , which was fomented by discord , survived the freedom of the commons , which must be founded in union . 
The private interest of the pontiffs , or their nephews , sometimes involved them in these domestic feuds . 
The disorders of Rome , which were much inflamed by the partiality of Sixtus IV . 
are exposed in the Diaries of two spectators , Stephen Infessura , and an anonymous citizen . 
See the troubles of the year , and the death of the prothonotary Colonna , in tom . 
mais tres souvent en advient de grands et cruels meurtres et pilleries . 
But after their return from Avignon , the keys of St . 
Peter were guarded by the sword of St . 
The long habits of obedience and education subdued the turbulent spirit of the nobles and commons of Rome . 
The barons forgot the arms and factions of their ancestors , and insensibly became the servants of luxury and government . 
The Colonna and Ursini vied with each other in the decoration of their palaces and chapels and their antique splendor was rivalled or surpassed by the sudden opulence of the papal families . 
In Rome the voice of freedom and discord is no longer heard and , instead of the foaming torrent , a smooth and stagnant lake reflects the image of idleness and servitude . 
and so regular was the military establishment , that in one month Clement VIII . 
the papal arms are happily rusted but the revenue must have gained some nominal increase . 
Note On the financial measures of Sixtus V. see Ranke , Dio Romischen Papste , i . 
M. More especially by Guicciardini and Machiavel in the general history of the former , in the Florentine history , the Prince , and the political discourses of the latter . 
an anticipation , which , like that of the Tartar conquests , I indulged with the less scruple , as I could scarcely hope to reach the conclusion of my work . 
The ambitious and feeble hostilities of the Caraffa pope , Paul IV . 
Those Catholic bigots , Philip II . 
Note But compare Ranke , Die Romischen Papste , i . 
M This gradual change of manners and expense is admirably explained by Dr . 
who proves , perhaps too severely , that the most salutary effects have flowed from the meanest and most selfish causes . 
The successful candidate is drawn from the church , and even the convent from the mode of education and life the most adverse to reason , humanity , and freedom . 
The genius of Sixtus the Fifth burst from the gloom of a Franciscan cloister . 
A Protestant may disdain the unworthy preference of St . 
Dominic , but he will not rashly condemn the zeal or judgment of Sixtus V. , who placed the statues of the apostles St . 
Paul on the vacant columns of Trajan and Antonine . 
a copious and amusing work , but which does not command our absolute confidence . 
Note The industry of M. Ranke has discovered the document , a kind of scandalous chronicle of the time , from which Leti wrought up his amusing romances . 
See also M. Ranke's observations on the Life of Sixtus . 
M. These privileged places , the quartieri or franchises , were adopted from the Roman nobles by the foreign ministers . 
had once abolished the abominandum et detestandum franchitiarum hujusmodi nomen and after Sixtus V. they again revived . 
I cannot discern either the justice or magnanimity of Louis XIV . 
This outrage produced a decree , which was inscribed on marble , and placed in the Capitol . 
I believe that this decree is still observed , and I know that every monarch who deserves a statue should himself impose the prohibition . 
The histories of the church , Italy , and Christendom , have contributed to the chapter which I now conclude . 
A. D. , in the Scriptores Rerum Italicarum of Muratori , tom . 
N. B. The credit of this fragment is somewhat hurt by a singular interpolation , in which the author relates his own death at the age of years . 
the authentic groundwork of the history of Rienzi . 
in the Rerum Italicarum , tom . 
Antonii Diarium Rom , tom . 
Anonymi Diarium Urbis Romae , tom . 
sive Excerpta ex Diario Joh . 
Burcardi , edita a Godefr . 
Leibnizio , Hanover , , in to . 
The large and valuable Journal of Burcard might be completed from the MSS . 
Except the last , all these fragments and diaries are inserted in the Collections of Muratori , my guide and master in the history of Italy . 
His country , and the public , are indebted to him for the following works on that subject . 
quorum potissima pars nunc primum in lucem prodit , c . 
in folio , Milan , , . 
A volume of chronological and alphabetical tables is still wanting as a key to this great work , which is yet in a disorderly and defective state . 
Antiquitates Italiae Medii Aevi , vi . 
in folio , Milan , , in lxxv . 
curious dissertations , on the manners , government , religion , c . 
, of the Italians of the darker ages , with a large supplement of charters , chronicles , c . 
Dissertazioni sopra le Antiquita Italiane , iii . 
, Milano , , a free version by the author , which may be quoted with the same confidence as the Latin text of the Antiquities . 
Annali d' Italia , xviii . 
in octavo , Milan , , a dry , though accurate and useful , abridgment of the history of Italy , from the birth of Christ to the middle of the xviiith century . 
Dell' Antichita Estense ed Italiane , ii . 
vols , in folio , Modena , , . 
In the history of this illustrious race , the parent of our Brunswick kings , the critic is not seduced by the loyalty or gratitude of the subject . 
In all his works , Muratori approves himself a diligent and laborious writer , who aspires above the prejudices of a Catholic priest . 
Chapter LXXI Prospect Of The Ruins Of Rome In The Fifteenth Century . 
Part I. Prospect Of The Ruins Of Rome In The Fifteenth Century . 
Four Causes Of Decay And Destruction . 
Conclusion Of The Whole Work . 
Her primeval state , such as she might appear in a remote age , when Evander entertained the stranger of Troy , has been delineated by the fancy of Virgil . 
It should be Pope Martin the Fifth . 
See Gibbon's own note , ch . 
lxv , note and Hobhouse , Illustrations of Childe Harold , p . 
mentioned the age , character , and writings of Poggius and particularly noticed the date of this elegant moral lecture on the varieties of fortune . 
immutatum ut vineae in senatorum subellia successerint , stercorum ac purgamentorum receptaculum factum . 
These relics are minutely described by Poggius , one of the first who raised his eyes from the monuments of legendary , to those of classic , superstition . 
Of the baths of Constantine , of Alexander , of Domitian , or rather of Titus , some vestige might yet be found . 
The columns of Trajan and Antonine were still erect but the Egyptian obelisks were broken or buried . 
The two mausoleums or sepulchres of Augustus and Hadrian could not totally be lost but the former was only visible as a mound of earth and the latter , the castle of St . 
Angelo , had acquired the name and appearance of a modern fortress . 
One was in the Via Nomentana est alter praetevea Gallieno principi dicatus , ut superscriptio indicat , Via Nomentana . 
Poggio likewise mentions the building which Gibbon ambiguously says be might have overlooked . 
M. This melancholy picture was drawn above nine hundred years after the fall of the Western empire , and even of the Gothic kingdom of Italy . 
Two hundred years before the eloquent complaint of Poggius , an anonymous writer composed a description of Rome . 
His ignorance may repeat the same objects under strange and fabulous names . 
The same reflection must be applied to the three last ages and we should vainly seek the Septizonium of Severus which is celebrated by Petrarch and the antiquarians of the sixteenth century . 
Liber de Mirabilibus Romae ex Registro Nicolai Cardinalis de Amagonia in Bibliotheca St . 
who thus delivers his own critical opinion Scriptor xiiimi . 
After a diligent inquiry , I can discern four principal causes of the ruin of Rome , which continued to operate in a period of more than a thousand years . 
I. The injuries of time and nature . 
The hostile attacks of the Barbarians and Christians . 
The use and abuse of the materials . 
The domestic quarrels of the Romans . 
Of a simple and solid edifice , it is not easy , however , to circumscribe the duration . 
A complex figure of various and minute parts to more accessible to injury and decay and the silent lapse of time is often accelerated by hurricanes and earthquakes , by fires and inundations . 
A memorable conflagration , the guilt or misfortune of Nero's reign , continued , though with unequal fury , either six or nine days . 
Yet two causes may be alleged , which render the calamity of fire more destructive to a flourishing than a decayed city . 
From her situation , Rome is exposed to the danger of frequent inundations . 
is unable to decide whether they were constructed , or , years before the clxxxth Olympiad . 
This natural but melancholy image is peculiar to Homer . 
dates the fire of Rome from A. D. , July , and the subsequent persecution of the Christians from November of the same year . 
Quippe in regiones quatuordecim Roma dividitur , quarum quatuor integrae manebant , tres solo tenus dejectae septem reliquis pauca testorum vestigia supererant , lacera et semiusta . 
He then deplores the opes tot victoriis quaesitae et Graecarum artium decora . 
A. U. C. , repentina subversio ipsius Romae praevenit triumphum Romanorum . 
diversae ignium aquarumque cladespene absumsere urbem Nam Tiberis insolitis auctus imbribus et ultra opinionem , vel diuturnitate vel maguitudine redundans omnia Romae aedificia in plano posita delevit . 
Yet we may observe , that it is the plan and study of the Christian apologist to magnify the calamities of the Pagan world . 
Vidimus flavum Tiberim , retortis Littore Etrusco violenter undis , Ire dejectum monumenta Regis Templaque Vestae . 
reports the petitions of the different towns of Italy to the senate against the measure and we may applaud the progress of reason . 
See the Epoques de la Nature of the eloquent and philosophic Buffon . 
has observed this curious and unquestionable fact . 
Note The level of the Tyber was at one time supposed to be considerably raised recent investigations seem to be conclusive against this supposition . 
See a brief , but satisfactory statement of the question in Bunsen and Platner , Roms Beschreibung . 
But in simple truth , the northern conquerors were neither sufficiently savage , nor sufficiently refined , to entertain such aspiring ideas of destruction and revenge . 
From these innocent Barbarians , the reproach may be transferred to the Catholics of Rome . 
Yet their abhorrence was confined to the monuments of heathen superstition and the civil structures that were dedicated to the business or pleasure of society might be preserved without injury or scandal . 
The change of religion was accomplished , not by a popular tumult , but by the decrees of the emperors , of the senate , and of time . 
The Goths are apparently Germans but all beyond Caesar and Tacitus is darkness or fable , in the antiquities of Germany . 
History of the Decline , c . 
According to the anonymous writer in Montfaucon , the Pantheon had been vowed by Agrippa to Cybele and Neptune , and was dedicated by Boniface IV . 
Bunsen and Platner , vol . 
The value of any object that supplies the wants or pleasures of mankind is compounded of its substance and its form , of the materials and the manufacture . 
The smallness of their numbers was the sole check on the demands and depredations of the Romans . 
and several Romans , doctrina graves , were persuaded that the Goths buried their treasures at Rome , and bequeathed the secret marks filiis nepotibusque . 
He relates some anedotes to prove , that in his own time , these places were visited and rifled by the Transalpine pilgrims , the heirs of the Gothic conquerors . 
The base and sacrilegious Greek had not even the poor pretence of plundering a heathen temple , the Pantheon was already a Catholic church . 
I shall quote the authentic testimony of the Saxon poet , de Rebus gestis Caroli magni , l . 
Ad quae marmoreas praestabat Roma columnas , Quasdam praecipuas pul hra Ravenna dedit . 
De tam longinqua poterit regiona vetustas Illius ornatum , Francia , ferre tibi . 
extruxit etiam Aquisgrani basilicam plurimae pulchritudinis , ad cujus structuram a Roma et Ravenna columnas et marmora devehi fecit . 
quam una in re , turbulenti ac seditiosi homines et totius reliquae vitae consiliis et rationibus discordes , inhumani foederis stupenda societate convenirent , in pontes et moenia atque immeritos lapides desaevirent . 
de ipsius vetustatis ac propriae impietatis fragminibus vilem quaestum turpi mercimonio captare non puduit . 
de imaginibus sepulchrorum sub quibus patrum vestrorum venerabilis civis erat , ut reliquas sileam , desidiosa Neapolis adornatur . 
Sic paullatim ruinae ipsae deficiunt . 
Yet King Robert was the friend of Petrarch . 
See the Annals of Italy , A. D. . 
For this and the preceding fact , Muratori himself is indebted to the Benedictine history of Pere Mabillon . 
Vita di Sisto Quinto , da Gregorio Leti , tom . 
From the quotations in Bunsen's Dissertation , it may be suspected that this slow but continual process of destruction was the most fatal . 
The temple of Concord was therefore not destroyed by a sedition in the xiiith century , as I have read in a MS . 
Composed by Aeneas Sylvius , afterwards Pope Pius II . 
Oblectat me , Roma , tuas spectare ruinas Ex cujus lapsu gloria prisca patet . 
Sed tuus hic populus muris defossa vetustis Calcis in obsequium marmora dura coquit . 
Impia tercentum si sic gens egerit annos Nullum hinc indicium nobilitatis erit . 
I have reserved for the last , the most potent and forcible cause of destruction , the domestic hostilities of the Romans themselves . 
With some slight alterations , a theatre , an amphitheatre , a mausoleum , was transformed into a strong and spacious citadel . 
I need not repeat , that the mole of Adrian has assumed the title and form of the castle of St . 
Even the churches were encompassed with arms and bulwarks , and the military engines on the roof of St . 
Peter's were the terror of the Vatican and the scandal of the Christian world . 
Whatever is fortified will be attacked and whatever is attacked may be destroyed . 
Could the Romans have wrested from the popes the castle of St . 
Angelo , they had resolved by a public decree to annihilate that monument of servitude . 
Every building of defence was exposed to a siege and in every siege the arts and engines of destruction were laboriously employed . 
After the death of Nicholas the Fourth , Rome , without a sovereign or a senate , was abandoned six months to the fury of civil war . 
have done with the battering ram what the Punic hero could not accomplish with the sword . 
enumerates , arcus Titi , turris Cartularia arcus Julii Caesaris et Senatorum , turres de Bratis arcus Antonini , turris de Cosectis , c . 
magna ex parte Romanorum injuria . 
Against the emperor Henry IV . 
I must copy an important passage of Montfaucon Turris ingens rotunda . 
sepulchrum erat , cujus muri tam solidi , ut spatium perquam minimum intus vacuum supersit et Torre di Bove dicitur , a boum capitibus muro inscriptis . 
Huic sequiori aevo , tempore intestinorum bellorum , ceu urbecula adjuncta fuit , cujus moenia et turres etiamnum visuntur ita ut sepulchrum Metellae quasi arx oppiduli fuerit . 
The sepulchre is still standing See Hobhouse , p . 
M. See the testimonies of Donatus , Nardini , and Montfaucon . 
In the Savelli palace , the remains of the theatre of Marcellus are still great and conspicuous . 
James , cardinal of St . 
In scelus , in socios fraternaque vulnera patres Tormentis jecisse viros immania saxa Perfodisse domus trabibus , fecisse ruinas Ignibus incensas turres , obscuraque fumo Lumina vicino , quo sit spoliata supellex . 
finds that stone bullets of two or three hundred pounds' weight were not uncommon and they are sometimes computed at xii . 
or xviii cantari of Genoa , each cantaro weighing pounds . 
M. Chapter LXXI Prospect Of The Ruins Of Rome In The Fifteenth Century . 
In the massy stones of the Coliseum , many holes are discerned and the two most probable conjectures represent the various accidents of its decay . 
The fourth part of the Verona Illustrata of the marquis Maffei professedly treats of amphitheatres , particularly those of Rome and Verona , of their dimensions , wooden galleries , c . 
pronounces the rapine of the Barbarians to be the unam germanamque causam foraminum . 
Note The improbability of this theory is shown by Bunsen , vol . 
M. Donatus , Roma Vetus et Nova , p . 
Note Gibbon has followed Donatus , who supposes that a silk manufactory was established in the xiith century in the Coliseum . 
The Bandonarii , or Bandererii , were the officers who carried the standards of their school before the pope . 
the passage that attests this hostile partition , which must be applied to the end of the xiith or the beginning of the xiith century . 
Note The division is mentioned in Vit . 
and Gibbon might have found frequent other records of it at other dates . 
Hobhouse's Illustrations of Childe Harold . 
The senator presided with dignity and pomp to adjudge and distribute the prizes , the gold ring , or the pallium , as it was styled , of cloth or silk . 
A convenient order of benches was restored and a general proclamation , as far as Rimini and Ravenna , invited the nobles to exercise their skill and courage in this perilous adventure . 
The Roman ladies were marshalled in three squadrons , and seated in three balconies , which , on this day , the third of September , were lined with scarlet cloth . 
The fair Jacova di Rovere led the matrons from beyond the Tyber , a pure and native race , who still represent the features and character of antiquity . 
Amidst the crowd , our annalist has selected the names , colors , and devices , of twenty of the most conspicuous knights . 
that while the other families were the subjects of the Vatican , they alone were the supporters of the Capitol . 
The combats of the amphitheatre were dangerous and bloody . 
Some of the noblest families might mourn , but the pomp of the funerals , in the churches of St . 
Maria Maggiore , afforded a second holiday to the people . 
and the interior space affords a sufficient level for the purpose of racing . 
See the Statuta Urbis Romae , l . 
I have already given an idea of this municipal code . 
For these expenses , the Jews of Rome paid each year florins , of which the odd thirty represented the pieces of silver for which Judas had betrayed his Master to their ancestors . 
and however fanciful they may seem , they are deeply marked with the colors of truth and nature . 
to the games of the Italians in the Middle Ages . 
Of the present ruin , the nephews of Paul the Third are the guilty agents and every traveller who views the Farnese palace may curse the sacrilege and luxury of these upstart princes . 
has mentioned this agreement of the factions of the xivth century de Tiburtino faciendo in the Coliseum , from an original act in the archives of Rome . 
but his expression too strong for the present age , must be very tenderly applied to the xvth century . 
They still hoped on some future occasion , to revive and vindicate their grant . 
After measuring the priscus amphitheatri gyrus , Montfaucon only adds that it was entire under Paul III . 
more freely reports the guilt of the Farnese pope , and the indignation of the Roman people . 
Against the nephews of Urban VIII . 
I have no other evidence than the vulgar saying , Quod non fecerunt Barbari , fecere Barberini , which was perhaps suggested by the resemblance of the words . 
The strong and lofty walls were covered with glass and gold , and crowned with a roof of the richest and most curious carving . 
Below the citadel stood a palace , of gold for the greatest part , decorated with precious stones , and whose value might be esteemed at one third of the world itself . 
The discovery of a statue of Pompey , ten feet in length , was the occasion of a lawsuit . 
impose a fine of aurei on whosoever shall demolish any ancient edifice , ne ruinis civitas deformetur , et ut antiqua aedificia decorem urbis perpetuo representent . 
Petrarch is struck mute miraculo rerumtantarum , et stuporis mole obrutus . 
Praesentia vero , mirum dictu nihil imminuit vere major fuit Roma majoresque sunt reliquiae quam rebar . 
He excepts and praises the rare knowledge of John Colonna . 
Qui enim hodie magis ignari rerum Romanarum , quam Romani cives ! Invitus dico , nusquam minus Roma cognoscitur quam Romae . 
After the description of the Capitol , he adds , statuae erant quot sunt mundi provinciae et habebat quaelibet tintinnabulum ad collum . 
The same writer affirms , that Virgil captus a Romanis invisibiliter exiit , ivitque Neapolim . 
invoked the daemons for the discovery of hidden treasures . 
If this fable rests on the slightest foundation , we may pity the bodies , as well as the statues , that were exposed to the air in a barbarous age . 
Prope porticum Minervae , statua est recubantis , cujus caput integra effigie tantae magnitudinis , ut signa omnia excedat . 
Quidam ad plantandas arbores scrobes faciens detexit . 
See the Memorials of Flaminius Vacca , No. , p . 
The improvements of Rome , since the fifteenth century , have not been the spontaneous produce of freedom and industry . 
A second and more artificial cause of the growth of a metropolis is the residence of a monarch , the expense of a luxurious court , and the tributes of dependent provinces . 
The beauty and splendor of the modern city may be ascribed to the abuses of the government , to the influence of superstition . 
has been marked by the rapid elevation of a new family , enriched by the childish pontiff at the expense of the church and country . 
Peter , the most glorious structure that ever has been applied to the use of religion . 
Peter's , is detained by a column of Egyptian granite , which rises between two lofty and perpetual fountains , to the height of one hundred and twenty feet . 
In , they had increased to , and in , I left them , without the Jews , . 
I am ignorant whether they have since continued in a progressive state . 
Yet Montfaucon still sighs for a more complete plan and description of the old city , which must be attained by the three following methods . 
The measurement of the space and intervals of the ruins . 
The study of inscriptions , and the places where they were found . 
The investigation of all the acts , charters , diaries of the middle ages , which name any spot or building of Rome . 
would furnish a solid and accurate basis for the ancient topography of Rome . 
The historian may applaud the importance and variety of his subject but while he is conscious of his own imperfections , he must often accuse the deficiency of his materials . 
